Dynamic DNA methylation differences between epitypes throughout the annual cycle, circannual clocks affect methylation levels, stable methylation marks in the promoters of 30 candidate genes, embryo-adult transmission of methylation marks. DNA methylation can change DNA properties, affecting chromatin accessibility, gene expression, and phenotypic variation. In clonal Norway spruce, warmer (WE) versus cooler (CE) embryogenic conditions produce phenotypically different trees. This climatic memory, induced during embryogenesis, remains stable in the resulting epitype trees, and the epigenetically altered timing of bud phenology persists between WE and CE epitypes even after decades under common garden conditions. We examined DNA methylation patterns in 14-year-old epitypes throughout the annual developmental cycle. Using targeted bisulfite sequencing, we screened for differential DNA methylation over a 3000 bp region in 2744 genes related to the epigenetic machinery, circadian clock, and phenology. Clustering DNA methylation differences in the CG context clearly separated epitype trees, confirming epigenetic mark differences. Differences in methylation of cytosines in all contexts were highly dynamic and varied markedly among annual developmental stages, suggesting the existence of circannual clocks affecting methylation levels in the studied genomic regions. Most stable methylation marks were identified in CG contexts, fewer in CHG and none in CHH contexts, consistent with differences in inheritance among methylation contexts. We identified stable CG and CHG methylation marks in the promoter regions of 30 specific genes. Two ARGONAUTE genes and 4 other genes exhibited stable marks across all time points for CE or WE, and putative embryo-adult transmission for some genes. These findings indicate that DNA methylation marks maintained in genomic regions throughout the annual cycle may contribute to an induced epigenetic memory established in embryos and later manifested as phenologically different epitype trees.© 2026. The Author(s).
The pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of many drugs vary with the time of administration, reflecting circadian rhythms in drug-target sensitivity and in drug concentrations at target sites. Cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4), which metabolizes approximately half of all clinically used drugs, exhibits circadian oscillations in expression and activity driven in part by transcriptional regulation via the clock output factors DBP and E4BP4. However, the amplitude of its enzymatic activity substantially exceeds that of its mRNA, implying additional post-transcriptional control, but the underlying mechanism remains largely unknown. Herein, we report that the endoplasmic reticulum-associated E3 ubiquitin ligase gp78 acts as a key regulator of circadian CYP3A4 activity in human hepatocytes. In clock-synchronized HepaRG cells, CYP3A4 protein and enzymatic activity oscillated in phase despite the absence of mRNA rhythms. Using HepaRG cells stably expressing CYP3A4 from a constitutive CMV promoter, CYP3A4 protein stability varied with the time of day, further supporting post-transcriptional control of its circadian rhythm. The protein levels of gp78 oscillated antiphasic to those of CYP3A4, and overexpression of wild-type gp78, but not its catalytically inactive RING-finger mutant, reduced CYP3A4 levels and abolished the rhythmicity, indicating that the ubiquitin ligase activity of gp78 is required for rhythmic CYP3A4 degradation. Our findings reveal gp78-mediated proteolysis as a key contributor to circadian CYP3A4 activity and provide a mechanistic basis for the dosing-time dependence of CYP3A4 substrate pharmacokinetics.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Chronic fatty acid (FA) elevation drives metabolic dysfunction-associated liver disease (MASLD). Hepatocytes buffer transient lipid overload via coordinated adaptive mechanisms, but the temporal limits of this capacity remain undefined.We characterized early, intermediate, and prolonged hepatocellular responses to sustained lipid excess.HuH7 hepatocytes were exposed to an equimolar palmitic/oleic acid (PA/OA) mixture for 1, 14, or 28 days. Viability, lipid accumulation, stress-response pathways, insulin signaling, metabolic regulators, mitochondrial markers, [14C]-PA uptake, and exo-metabolomic profiles were assessed (n≥3/group). Data (mean ± SEM) were analyzed by two-way ANOVA with Bonferroni post hoc testing; cumulative cell death by linear regression. P<0.05 was significant.FA treatment increased lipid droplet accumulation 1.4- to 1.7-fold vs. time-matched BSA controls at all time points (p<0.001) and increased the rate of cumulative cell death ∼4.3-fold (1.556±0.083 vs. 0.365±0.054%/day, p<0.001). Exo-metabolomic PCA explained 88.5% of variance (Q2=0.758), with peak lactate release at Day 14 and progressively rising acetate through Day 28. [14C]-PA accumulation at Day 28 was ∼30% lower than Day 1 (∼800 vs. ∼500 cpm/mg protein), with a declining rather than plateauing profile between 20-60 s. By Day 28, FA-treated cells showed lower FASN (p<0.001), CD36 (p<0.05), FABP1 (p<0.001), SIRT1 (p<0.005), and CLOCK (p<0.01) protein levels, and higher CPT1A (p<0.001), pAMPK/AMPK (p<0.01), p53 (p<0.001), Bax/Bcl2 (p<0.005), and respiratory complex I-V abundance (p<0.05-p<0.001) vs. controls.Sustained PA/OA exposure induces a staged hepatocellular response, early lipid-buffering adaptation, intermediate metabolic compensation, and late decompensation, indicating that chronic lipotoxicity reflects progressive loss of regulatory coordination despite persistent metabolic adaptation.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Circadian clocks enable plants to predict temperature changes and adapt to the living climate, known as temperature entrainment and temperature compensation (TC), with largely unrevealed mechanisms. Here, we proposed that the circadian component PRR9 (PSEUDO-RESPONSE REGULATOR 9) has evolved for thermal adaptation by acting as a hub factor in transmitting temperature input and maintaining TC. High temperature promotes PRR9 protein accumulation and triggers liquid-liquid phase separation, which not only directly inhibits the transcription level of CCA1 but also facilitates the recruitment of ALKBH9B to remove m6A installation and accelerates CCA1 mRNA degradation. Moreover, we proposed a phyB-PRR9 thermoregulatory module to transmit progressively rising temperature via temperature-dependent interacting compartment alteration that regulates the repressive phase and activity of PRR9. Our findings unmasked plants that possess intricate high-temperature sensing mechanisms for adaptation to warming climates, laying a foundation for engineering thermo-resilient crops.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Impaired oligodendrocyte precursor cell (OPC) differentiation limits myelin renewal in aging and contributes to multiple sclerosis (MS) progression. How aging drives OPC deficits remains incompletely understood. We find dysregulation of genes associated with the circadian clock, including Bmal1, and metabolism in aged compared with young OPCs. Targeted loss of Bmal1 in OPCs drives metabolic dysfunction, leading to cellular senescence and impaired dynamics. OPC proliferation and differentiation occur at different rates throughout the day in young adult mice and become disrupted with aging. Chronotherapeutic targeting of BMAL1-controlled sirtuin signaling restores Bmal1-disrupted OPC dynamics after demyelination via sirtuin 2 (Sirt2)-dependent mechanisms. Induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived OPCs from MS patients and MS lesion oligodendroglia recapitulate BMAL1 and SIRT2 disruptions. These findings establish BMAL1 as a key regulator of OPC energy metabolism, sirtuin homeostasis, and senescence. We anticipate that this work will provide a foundation for future studies investigating the interconnected roles of aging, circadian disruption, and myelin biology.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Circadian rhythms are endogenous ∼24-hour cycles that regulate cardiovascular physiology. While circadian regulation of the left ventricle (LV) is well established, whether the right ventricle (RV) exhibits intrinsic rhythmicity is not known. Here, we provide the first evidence that the healthy RV exhibits robust rhythms in function and molecular gene expression. Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of mortality in type 1 diabetes (T1D). T1D disrupts circadian rhythms, yet how T1D alters chamber-specific circadian control remains unclear. We investigated RV and LV function and gene expression across the 24-hour light-dark cycle in male streptozotocin-induced T1D and control mice. Echocardiographic assessment of diabetes induced remodeling at ZT0-4 and ZT12-16 (zeitgeber time; ZT) revealed time-dependent functional impairment, including reversal of the normal diurnal heart rate pattern. T1D impaired day-night RV and LV systolic function, with loss of day-night difference in LV ejection fraction and impaired active period RV stroke volume. Cosinor analysis of RV and LV gene expression demonstrated preserved 24-hour rhythmicity of core clock genesArntl1andPer2in both ventricles with T1D, while the clock output genesNr1d1andDbphad dampened amplitude in the RV but amplified expression in the T1D LV. These findings demonstrate that T1D differentially disrupts circadian regulation of the RV and LV, with selective vulnerability of the clock-controlled output genes despite preservation of the core oscillator. Chamber-specific circadian remodeling may contribute to the elevated cardiovascular risk in T1D and has implications for the timing of diagnostic and therapeutic interventions.
Digital technologies are increasingly introduced into nursing homes to address aging populations and caregiver shortages. Yet their effectiveness is often limited by rigid implementation models that overlook the role of frontline caregivers, the staff who provide hands-on daily care to residents and operate these technologies in practice. While previous studies have questioned deterministic narratives of technology adoption, less attention has been given to how frontline caregivers actively modify and reshape these systems during implementation.Drawing on domestication theory, this study examines how frontline caregivers in Chinese nursing homes negotiate, adapt, and reconfigure a newly introduced sensor-based detection system, and how their roles emerge and evolve across the full implementation process.We conducted a 6-month ethnographic study in 2 nursing homes in China. Both facilities operated under a nationally recognized welfare organization and were implementing a sensor-based detection system for fall prevention and round-the-clock monitoring. This system integrated motion sensors, pressure-sensitive mats, wearable trackers, voice-activated alerts, and a centralized data platform. Data collection combined participant observation across different implementation stages, 30 semistructured interviews with frontline caregivers selected through snowball sampling, and analysis of internal documents, including training manuals and meeting minutes. Data analysis proceeded abductively using domestication theory as a guiding framework, with field notes and interview transcripts organized chronologically across the 4 domestication phases, and coded through physical thematic mapping. A multidisciplinary team resolved cases where phase boundaries were ambiguous.Frontline caregivers did not adopt the sensor system linearly or uniformly. Across the 4 domestication phases, they continuously evaluated, adjusted, and reworked the system at both individual and collective levels. In appropriation, they assessed whether the system was ethically acceptable and technically credible. In objectification, they negotiated where devices belonged, how they should appear, and how they could fit residents' bodies and routines. In incorporation, they synchronized the system with care rhythms and absorbed the burden of system instability through hybrid manual workflows. In conversion, they translated technology use into narratives directed at families, managers, and external visitors, balancing transparency with the protection of resident dignity and privacy. Across all phases, individual judgments were progressively converted into collective norms, including documented placement standards, shift-specific monitoring protocols, and shared institutional language.This study highlights adaptation, rather than adoption, as the defining feature of effective technology integration in nursing homes. Caregivers' phased and collective labor transforms a rigid monitoring system into a flexible care resource. The findings extend domestication theory beyond household contexts into institutional care settings and call for technology designs that support caregiver customization as well as policies that formally recognize caregivers' tacit expertise.© Fangyuan Chang, Gubing Wang. Originally published in the Journal of Medical Internet Research (https://www.jmir.org).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565579 is a review article
Prevention and management of delirium is important for patients on intensive care units (ICU). National Guidelines recommend visible 24-hour clocks for ICU patients. Multi-modal approaches including improved orientation help prevent delirium, but literature on specific impacts of clocks on orientation in ICU patients is limited. This quality improvement project in a tertiary ICU introduced clocks at each bedspace and assessed impact on patient orientation. Proportion of patients orientated to time improved from 45% initially, to 70% post-implementation, then 94% following clock repositioning. Feedback was positive. Clocks are effective in aiding re-orientation which may support delirium prevention and management in ICUs.© The Intensive Care Society 2026.
Diet plays a critical role in promoting wellness and longevity in both humans and canines. Epigenetic ageing clocks have emerged as accurate tools for assessing biological ageing and evaluating dietary and lifestyle interventions in humans and mice.A dog-specific epigenetic ageing clock was developed and validated using buccal swab samples from domestic dogs aged 1.5 and 17 years. The clock exhibited a strong correlation with chronological age in both the training set (r = 0.99) and the validation set (r = 0.83). To investigate the impact of diet on epigenetic ageing, purebred pugs were assigned to either one group fed a minimally processed, human-grade food (MPHGF, n = 18 completed) or a processed, extruded dry kibble (EDK, n = 7 completed). Epigenetic age was assessed from buccal swabs collected at baseline and 6-month timepoints. Each dog served as its own control by calculating delta age (epigenetic age minus chronological age) over the study period.Dogs fed with MPHGF diet exhibited a significant reduction in delta age, decreasing from 2.75 to 1.80 years over 6 months (p = 0.02), indicating a trend of slowed epigenetic ageing. In contrast, dogs fed with EDK diet exhibited no significant change in epigenetic ageing (p = 0.86). After sex-stratified analysis, females in the MPHGF group showed younger delta age at M6 than M0; however, not insignificant comparing to females in the EDK group.This study demonstrates the potential for dietary interventions to influence epigenetic ageing in dogs and provides a practical, quantitative framework for investigating healthy ageing in companion animals.© 2026 The Author(s). Veterinary Record Open published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of British Veterinary Association.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42562815
Current Myeloproliferative neoplasm (MPN) therapies provide meaningful symptom and event-risk control but are limited by infrequent molecular remissions, treatment-limiting cytopenias (particularly anemia), and continued reliance on non-mutation-directed cytoreduction or phlebotomy with attendant morbidity. At ASH 2025 Annual Meeting, multiple investigational strategies aimed to address these limitations, including clone-directed targeting (INCA033989), phlebotomy-sparing physiologic therapy (rusfertide), and epigenetic disease-modifying combinations (pelabresib). We summarized the latest updates on these emerging agents and regimens for MPNs from the 2025 ASH Annual Meeting.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42545540 is a review article
Thrombotic events are a major morbidity among Philadelphia chromosome-negative myeloproliferative neoplasm (Ph-MPN) patients. There is a lack of data from Kerala regarding the profile of Ph-MPN and the prevalence of thrombosis among these patients.To study the clinical profile, driver mutations, incidence of thrombotic events among Ph-MPN patients, and the response to hydroxyurea therapy.We reviewed the medical records of 84 Ph-MPN patients who were on follow-up from April 2019 to June 2023 in a tertiary care hospital in Kerala.There were 48 polycythemia vera (PV), 16 essential thrombocythemia (ET), 14 primary myelofibrosis (PMF), and six unclassifiable MPN (MPN-u) patients. The incidence of Janus kinase 2 (JAK2) mutation was 96, 62.5, and 79% among PV, ET, and PMF patients, respectively. The incidence of calreticulin (CALR) mutation was 37.5 and 21% among ET and PMF patients, respectively. The incidence of thrombotic events was 23/48 (48%), 7/16 (43.5%), and 6/14 (42.8%) among PV, ET, and PMF patients, respectively. All ET and PMF patients with thrombotic events were JAK2V617F-mutated. Eighty-seven percent of the evaluable patients on hydroxyurea for PV achieved freedom from therapeutic phlebotomies. ET patients who were on hydroxyurea achieved a median platelet count of 4.3 lakhs/µL (3.16-6.08).There is a higher incidence of thrombosis among Ph-MPN patients from Kerala, which needs to be ascertained in a population-based study. JAK2V617F mutation is the major determinant of thrombotic episodes in ET and PMF. Hydroxyurea is an effective cytoreductive therapy in PV and ET.© Journal of the Association of Physicians of India 2026.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42528739 is a review article
We examined extracellular vesicle (EV) protein alterations after burn injury to elucidate molecular pathways linking immune-neural communication and the pathophysiology of burns.Severe burn injury triggers widespread inflammation and metabolic stress with downstream consequences. EVs are essential mediators of cell-to-cell communication and protein transport for regulating inflammation, metabolism, and neuronal signaling that may reflect burn-related alterations.Plasma EVs from 37 adult burn patients (≥15% total body surface area burn [TBSA]) and 21 nonburn controls were analyzed. An age-restricted subcohort (<40 years) was additionally evaluated to minimize potential confounding of age. A subset (4 per group) underwent cell type-specific EV enrichment. Proteomic profiling and functional enrichment analyses, including gene ontology (GO) over-representation analysis (ORA), Reactome gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), and Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA), were performed to identify differential protein abundance and associated biological pathways.Burn injury produced distinct alterations in EV proteomic profiles. Among 919 detected proteins, 326 were decreased and 593 were increased. The 5 most significant proteins (adjusted P -value<0.05) distinguishing burns from controls were CRP, ITGA11, MYH9, CALR, and ANTXR2. GO ORA, Reactome GSEA, and IPA consistently identified enrichment of immune activation and inflammatory regulation pathways, including immune cell chemotaxis, acute-phase signaling, cytokine signaling, complement activation, coagulation, and cellular stress pathways. Similar inflammatory pathway enrichment persisted in the age-restricted subcohort. Exploratory analyses of cell type-enriched EVs demonstrated distinct proteomic trends across immune and neuronal EV populations, although no subtype-specific proteins exhibited statistical significance.Burn injury profoundly alters EV cargo across general, immune, and neuronal types, reflecting proinflammatory and neuroimmune-associated signaling. This coordinated EV remodeling may reflect the hyperinflammatory responses, altered healing, and downstream biological pathway alterations. EV-based biomarkers may enable improved diagnostic and therapeutic strategies to mitigate dysregulated immune and healing responses in burn patients.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Molecular testing for myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPNs) without defined clinical criteria can lead to inefficient laboratory utilization without proportional diagnostic benefit.We evaluated the impact of implementing clinical acceptance criteria, including unexplained abnormal blood counts, unusual-site thrombosis, unexplained hepatosplenomegaly, and/or leukoerythroblastic blood film for gene (JAK2, CALR, MPL and/or BCR::ABL1) testing of patients with suspected MPNs in Hamilton, Canada and surrounding areas. The impact of testing criteria on ordering practices and diagnostic yields was assessed by retrospective examination of 3590 MPNs test requests submitted between 1 January and 31 December 2025; including 5.5 months of permissive testing (pre-implementation period), 2 months with a transition in testing criteria (grace period) and 4.5 months with restricted testing (post-implementation period). During the post-implementation period, the Laboratory also transitioned from sequential single-gene PCR-based assays to an MPN next-generation sequencing (NGS) panel for DNA-based MPN testing.Our results show that test volumes decreased significantly from 1835 in the pre-implementation period to 1050 post-implementation, while the positivity rate increased from 12% to 17% (χ2 = 12.26, p = 0.001). Patients with elevated platelet counts (237 of 1050 tested) demonstrated the highest positivity rate of 35% (n = 83/237). JAK2 V617F represented the highest proportion of all detected mutations at 73% (n = 127/174).These findings show that implementing appropriate pre-test clinical criteria significantly improved MPN test utilization and diagnostic yield.
A single vaccine cannot prevent or treat all cancers; however, recurrent tumor-specific epitopes may facilitate the development of pre-manufactured, HLA-matched mRNA vaccines tailored for specific molecular subgroups. We define the shared tumor-specific epitope as a recurring peptide derived from a viral oncoprotein, a driver mutation, a frameshift, an altered protein C-terminus, or a fusion junction, and we employ a rigorous cancer-cell-only criterion: a target must be recurrent within a defined subgroup, absent from essential normal tissues at the peptide-HLA level, naturally presented on tumor cells, and sufficiently clonal to minimize immune escape. Under this criterion, we present fifteen sequence-anchored reference designs alongside one conceptual placeholder across thirteen candidates divided into four superclasses: viral oncoproteins (such as HPV16/18 E6 and E7 as attenuated antigenic reference designs; Merkel cell polyomavirus serving as a design-specific placeholder), recurrent driver neoepitopes (including KRAS G12/G13, IDH1 R132H, and H3 K27M), hematologic neoantigens (such as NPM1 Type A C-terminus; and a single CALR exon 9 construct encoding the shared novel C-terminus of types 1 and 2 mutations), and fusion junctions (notably EWS-FLI1 and BCR-ABL). Each open reading frame is anchored to a canonical accession with its documented event; representative ORFs are provided as reference designs, with the intended residue-level verification records. These sequence designs are intended as reference constructs and are not suitable as clinical-grade or manufacturing-ready products; they require independent residue-level validation and comprehensive safety assessments prior to laboratory or clinical application. The historical record of non-personalized vaccination-including HPV and hepatitis B prophylaxis, intravesical BCG, and unsuccessful tumor-associated antigen trials-frames both the potential and limitations of such approaches. The practical product is not a universal vaccine but rather a governed library aligned with specific genotype, viral etiology, HLA context, and clinical setting. Currently, none of these designs have established proof-of-benefit-tier evidence.
Acute lung injury (ALI) remains a major public health challenge. Although Ophiopogonin D (OPD) possesses well-documented anti-inflammatory activity, its therapeutic efficacy and mechanisms in ALI remain elusive. In this study, we established an ALI model via lipopolysaccharide (LPS) challenge and treated mice with OPD. OPD significantly ameliorated multiple indices of lung injury. Using single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), we identified the key cell types and pathways mediating OPD's protective effects. scRNA-seq revealed that OPD primarily corrected the M1/M2 macrophage imbalance. Both in vitro and in vivo, OPD suppressed M1 polarization and, more prominently, promoted the differentiation of Plet1+ macrophage, an M2-like subset. Mechanistically, OPD activated peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ) to upregulate placenta-expressed transcript 1 (PLET1) expression; this effect was abolished by PPARγ inhibition. Thermal proteome profiling (TPP) coupled with subsequent validation identified nuclear receptor corepressor 1 (NCOR1) as a direct target of OPD. OPD disrupted the NCOR1-PPARγ interaction. Ncor1 knockdown phenocopied OPD's promotion of Plet1+ macrophage differentiation, whereas Ncor1 overexpression completely abrogated these effects. Collectively, OPD directly binds NCOR1 and disrupts the NCOR1-PPARγ interaction, thereby activating PPARγ and inducing Plet1+ macrophage differentiation to ameliorate LPS-induced ALI.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Climate change impacts the physiological processes of species, with rising seawater temperatures posing severe existential threats to marine mollusks. Therefore, studying the responses of marine organisms to heat stress is crucial. The blood clam, Anadara granosa, is a marine bivalve species that contains hemoglobin, and individuals with higher hemoglobin concentrations (HCs) exhibit better physiological health. In this study, we analyzed the regulatory mechanisms in the blood clam with different HCs in response to heat stress. Enzyme activity indicates that blood clams with different HC levels respond to heat stress by regulating oxidative stress and altering metabolic pathways, with clams with higher HCs showing greater adaptability and stress resistance. Transcriptome analysis of the control group (C), the high-HC heat-stressed group (TH), and the low-HC heat-stressed group (TL) revealed that endoplasmic reticulum processing and cytochrome P450 metabolism are crucial for the heat stress response. Additionally, the IP3R/Ca2+ signaling pathway regulates the response in clams with higher HCs. Combined miRNA-mRNA analysis showed that clams with higher HCs have more heat-responsive genes, forming a more complex regulatory network. Dual-luciferase reporter assays revealed that agr-miR-936 negatively regulates Calr, involved in the heat stress response, while agr-miR-1935-Cenph may affect HC differences by regulating total hemocyte counts. Our findings deepen the understanding of the molecular regulatory mechanisms that allow blood clams to cope with heat stress, offering new insights for aquaculture to manage extreme temperatures amid global warming.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
SMARCA4-deficient undifferentiated tumors (SMARCA4-dUT) have been included in the latest WHO classification of tumors. This study examined the cytomorphology, management, molecular features and prognosis of malignancies harboring SMARCA4 alterations.Biopsied cytologic slides were reviewed. Next-generation sequencing (NGS) and clinical data were analyzed.Thirty-four cases with SMARCA4 alterations were identified, including 13 primary and 21 metastatic tumors, sampled primarily from lung (35%), lymph nodes (26%) and liver (15%). Tumor origins were predominantly the lung (61%) and gallbladder (9%). The most common tumor type was adenocarcinoma (70%). Predominant architectures included nested, single-cell, tubular/acinar, and 3D clusters. Cells were most commonly round and columnar, with medium cytoplasm mostly showing vacuoles and granular features. Nuclear grade 2-3 was seen in 93% of cases, with prominent nucleoli and coarse chromatin. SMARCA4 alteration included mutations (32) and loss (2). These tumors are characterized by a high co-mutation burden, including TP53 (62%), KRAS (35%), and STK11 (15%). Prognosis is further modulated by allelic status (biallelic vs. monoallelic vs. subclonal), and mutations in DDR pathway (24%). Most tumors presented as stage IV. 26% received surgical resection. Overall, 74% underwent chemotherapy and 29% radiotherapy. Mean follow-up was 17 months, with 2-year OS of 49.1%. Twenty-three (68%) patients were current or former smokers.SMARCA4-altered malignancies show diverse differentiation and lack consistent cytomorphologic features. Majority of cases were differentiated malignancies and only four cases (12%) were undifferentiated, suggesting SMARCA4 alterations were associated with poor prognosis but were not exclusive drivers of undifferentiated malignancy.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Homologous recombination deficiency (HRD) is associated with increased sensitivity to PARP inhibitor therapy in various cancer types, including high-grade serous carcinoma (HGSC). Current guidelines recommend HRD testing to guide treatment decisions in HGSG. The majority of HRD assays rely on tumour tissue analysis. The main objective of this study was to assess cytological HGSC samples for HRD testing.Next generation sequencing using the Oncomine™ Comprehensive Assay Plus (OCAP) panel was performed on 110 matched cytological and histological samples from 55 treatment-naïve HGSC patients to determine the mutational status of 15 homologous recombination repair (HRR)-associated genes including BRCA1/2, and the HRD status based on BRCA1/2 mutational status and genomic instability metric (GIM). Concordance analysis was performed.Compared to matched histological samples, cytological HGSC samples revealed an overall concordance rate of 89.7% for HRR-associated gene mutations and of 100% for BRCA1/2 mutations, respectively. A moderate correlation between GIM values (Pearson correlation coefficient 0.48), but an overall concordance rate of 90.9% for the HRD status was observed.Our findings demonstrate that cytological HGSC samples can be employed for HRR-associated gene mutation and HRD testing using next generation sequencing with the OCAP panel.© 2026. The Author(s).
SMARCA4-deficient thoracic malignancies comprise biologically heterogeneous tumors, ranging from conventional non-small cell lung cancer with SMARCA4 alterations to thoracic SMARCA4-deficient undifferentiated tumor (SMARCA4-UT), an aggressive entity frequently associated with concomitant SMARCA2 loss. However, the extent to which SMARCA4-deficient lung cancer cell lines recapitulate SMARCA4-UT-like biology remains incompletely defined. Here, we characterized lung cancer cell lines across distinct SMARCA4 and SMARCA2 states and identified a subgroup with SMARCA4/2 co-deficiency that exhibited reduced expression of epithelial lineage markers and transcriptional similarity to SMARCA4-UT and other SWI/SNF-deficient malignancies. The EZH1/2 inhibitor HM97662 selectively suppressed growth in SMARCA4/2-deficient cells, with limited effects in SMARCA2-proficient cells. EZH1/2 inhibition broadly reduced H3K27me3 and induced derepression of PRC2 targets regardless of drug sensitivity. However, its biological effects were most pronounced in SMARCA4/2-deficient cells, where it promoted apoptosis, reduced stemness marker expression, attenuated the SMARCA4-UT-associated transcriptional signature, and suppressed proliferative and mTORC1-related programs. Chromatin accessibility analysis further revealed cell-line-specific patterns of accessibility loss, with reduced accessibility at stemness-associated transcription factor motif-enriched regions coupled with transcriptional repression of nearby genes in SMARCA4/2-deficient cells. These findings support dual EZH1/2 inhibition as a potential therapeutic vulnerability in SMARCA4/2-deficient, SMARCA4-UT-like lung cancer cells.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Soft tissue tumors with chondroid matrix represent a heterogeneous group with persistent diagnostic challenges. Advances in molecular diagnostics have identified recurrent gene fusions in several chondroid neoplasms, predominantly involving FN1. Here, we report two cases of chondroid tumors harboring a novel FOS::PABPN1 fusion. The patients were young and presented with small, deep, peri-osseous nodules located in the extremities. Histologically, the tumors were well-circumscribed and lobulated. Both cases presented fibro-cartilaginous and spindle cell areas. No cytonuclear atypia, mitoses, or necrosis were observed. Immunohistochemistry (performed in Case 2) revealed positivity for S100, CD34, and FOS, with negativity for MDM2, HMGA2, PLAG1, and desmin. RNA sequencing identified an identical in-frame FOS::PABPN1 fusion transcript in both tumors. Unsupervised transcriptomic clustering positioned the cases near synovial chondromatoses and other chondroid lesions, despite the absence of FN1 rearrangements. Massive overexpression of the WIF1 (Wnt Inhibitory Factor1) gene was also observed. To our knowledge, this is the first description of FOS rearrangement in mesenchymal tumors exhibiting chondroid differentiation. The FOS::PABPN1 fusion expands the spectrum of FOS-altered neoplasms beyond osteoblastic and vascular lesions and defines a potential new molecular subset of benign chondroid tumors. These findings highlight the utility of RNA sequencing in the diagnosis of chondroid neoplasms in order to identify rearrangement (of FN1, THBS1 or FOS) or IDH1/2. The consistent upregulation of WIF1 may represent a potential diagnostic biomarker.© 2026 The Author(s). Genes, Chromosomes and Cancer published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Pathogenic and likely pathogenic (P/LP) germline variants in cancer susceptibility genes (CSGs) are detected in 5-10% of patients with prostate cancer, but their clinical impact in high-risk disease remains unclear.This study aimed to assess the prevalence of P/LP variants in CSGs among patients with high-risk prostate cancer and their association with oncologic outcomes in patients treated with radiotherapy.We conducted a retrospective study of 600 men with high-risk prostate cancer. Germline DNA was analyzed using a 19-gene panel, and gene-level variant prevalence was compared with non-cancer control cohorts using Fisher's exact test. Time-to-event analyses were performed in the 390 patients treated with radiotherapy as primary curative intent. The primary endpoint was overall survival (OS), assessed by Kaplan-Meier and multivariable Cox regression. Secondary endpoints included biochemical recurrence, distant metastasis, prostate cancer-specific mortality (PCSM), and second primary malignancies, analyzed using cumulative incidence functions and Fine-Gray competing-risk models.P/LP variants were identified in 8.0% of patients (n = 48). CHEK2, ATM, and BRCA2 variants were significantly enriched in patients compared with non-cancer control cohorts. BRCA1/BRCA2 carriers had worse OS (10-yr OS rate: 19% vs 57%; p = 0.021) and higher cumulative incidence of biochemical recurrence events (10-yr cumulative incidence: 57% vs 28%; p = 0.048), distant metastases (57% vs 18%; p = 0.004) and PCSM (33% vs 4.3%; p = 0.001) compared with non-carriers. CHEK2 carriers showed heterogeneous family cancer histories and a higher incidence of second primary malignancies (47% vs 15%; p = 0.003). ATM carriers showed no metastatic progression or PCSM during follow-up. Limitations include the single-institution design and small gene-specific subgroups.Germline P/LP variants are prevalent in high-risk prostate cancer and define gene-specific subgroups with distinct oncologic outcomes, supporting the role of germline genetic testing in risk stratification and treatment decision-making.© 2026 The Authors.
Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) is a highly aggressive malignancy characterized by rapid progression, early metastasis, frequent relapse, and treatment resistance. Although chemoimmunotherapy has improved outcomes in a subset of patients, reliable molecular stratification tools reflecting tumor heterogeneity and survival risk remain limited. Chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA) is involved in proteostasis, metabolic adaptation, and stress responses, but its cellular heterogeneity and prognostic relevance in SCLC remain unclear.This study integrated single-cell RNA sequencing data, bulk transcriptomic cohorts, and clinical information to characterize CMA-related heterogeneity in SCLC. At the single-cell level, SCLC subtypes were annotated, CMA scores were calculated, and differences among baseline, sensitive, and resistant states were evaluated. At the bulk level, tumor versus normal differential expression analysis and weighted gene co-expression network analysis were performed to identify CMA-related candidate genes. A CMA-related Risk Score was constructed through comprehensive machine learning comparison and evaluated using survival analysis, time-dependent receiver operating characteristic curves, Cox regression, nomogram analysis, functional enrichment, immune microenvironment analysis, and drug sensitivity prediction. ARRDC3 was further validated by in vitro experiments.Single-cell analysis revealed marked SCLC subtype heterogeneity and nonuniform CMA activity across cellular subtypes. Significant CMA score differences between sensitive and resistant cells were observed in the SCLC-A_NR0B1/MYCL+ and SCLC_Hypoxia_glycolytic subtypes. Integration of CMA-related co-expression modules with tumor-associated differentially expressed genes identified 53 candidate genes. The machine learning-derived Risk Score effectively stratified patients into high-risk and low-risk groups across the combined cohort, GSE60052 cohort, and cBioPortal cohort, with high-risk patients showing significantly poorer overall survival. The Risk Score remained an independent prognostic factor and was associated with proliferative, cell-cycle, metabolic, immune, and drug sensitivity-related features. In vitro experiments showed that ARRDC3 overexpression suppressed proliferation, colony formation, migration, and invasion in H446 cells.This study revealed CMA-related cellular heterogeneity in SCLC and established a robust prognostic Risk Score associated with survival, biological pathway activity, immune microenvironment features, and potential therapeutic responses. Functional validation of ARRDC3 further supports the biological relevance of this model, providing new insights into SCLC molecular risk stratification and CMA-associated resistance states.Copyright © 2026 Han, Xu and Jiang.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42564071 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42561611 is a review article
The p53-MDM2 interaction is a central regulator of p53 protein stability and an important target for restoration of p53 function. Most peptide-based approaches targeting this interaction are derived from the p53 transactivation domain and preserve the canonical F-W-L hydrophobic motif. Here, BRCA1-derived peptide constructs were used to investigate how hydrophobic motif composition and sequence context influence peptide compatibility with the MDM2 binding interface.Short peptide segments derived from BRCA1 phosphorylation regions were engineered to contain hydrophobic anchor residues corresponding to the p53-MDM2 interaction while permitting variation in motif composition, including non-canonical F-W-F configurations. Peptides were evaluated using molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulations, and cellular assays based on EGFP-linker-peptide fusion constructs in HEK293T cells. Several BRCA1-derived peptides were associated with increased p53 protein levels in this system, with pBR3 and pBR4 showing the highest mean levels. Notably, both peptides contained non-canonical F-W-F motifs and showed greater activity than several peptides with comparable docking scores. Molecular dynamics and residue-level contact occupancy analyses were consistent with sustained association of the peptides with the MDM2 binding cleft despite interaction patterns that differed from those of reference p53-derived inhibitors.These findings indicate that modulation of the p53-MDM2 axis is influenced by both hydrophobic motif composition and sequence context. The results further suggest that alternative hydrophobic residue arrangements can support compatibility with the MDM2 binding interface, providing a framework for exploring non-p53-derived peptide architectures targeting the p53-MDM2 interaction.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42560505
Parkinson's disease (PD)-related constipation represents a prevalent and disabling non-motor symptom that imposes a substantial and growing health and economic burden worldwide. Current management strategies, including dietary modification, probiotics, and pharmacological therapies, often provide limited benefit, with potential adverse effects and minimal improvement in other PD-related symptoms. Acupuncture has emerged as a promising complementary therapeutic approach and has demonstrated preliminary clinical efficacy. However, the underlying biological mechanisms and the potential contribution of placebo responses to therapeutic effects remain insufficiently understood.This randomized controlled clinical trial will enroll 66 patients with PD-related constipation and randomly assign them in a 1:1 ratio to the real acupuncture group or the sham acupuncture group. Participants, acupuncturists, outcome assessors, and statisticians will be blinded to group allocation. The 8-week trial consists of a 4-week treatment period followed by a 4-week follow-up period. The primary outcome is the longitudinal change in the Chronic Constipation Severity Score (CCS) over time. Secondary clinical outcomes include weekly complete spontaneous bowel movements (CSBMs), spontaneous bowel movements (SBMs), Bristol Stool Scale (BSS) scores, and Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) scores. In addition, exploratory outcomes include levels of short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1), and phosphorylated α-synuclein at serine 129 (pS129-α-syn) measured in biofluid samples. Adverse events will be systematically monitored throughout the trial. The study is conducted in accordance with the SPIRIT guidelines.This trial is designed to evaluate the clinical efficacy of acupuncture for PD-related constipation using a rigorously implemented double-blind, sham acupuncture-controlled design. Although the sham acupuncture procedure may itself induce nonspecific physiological and contextual effects, the use of a standardized double-blind control is intended to reduce expectancy-related bias and improve methodological rigor in the assessment of acupuncture-related outcomes. In addition to clinical symptom evaluation, the integration of SCFAs, HDAC1, and pS129-α-syn allows exploratory investigation of potential biological changes associated with treatment. This trial aims to provide multidimensional evidence regarding possible gut-brain axis-related mechanisms involved in acupuncture treatment for PD-related constipation.The study protocol was registered with the International Traditional Medicine Clinical Trial Registry (ITMCTR 2026000107) on December 7, 2025. The publicly accessible website is: https://itmctr.ccebtcm.org.cn/mgt/search.Copyright © 2026 Lin, Lin, Li, Liu, Gu, Zhang, Wu, Wang, Fan and Zhuang.
Many U.S. soldiers and support personnel stationed in the Middle East and Southwest Asia are exposed to hazardous combustion byproducts from military burn pits, which may produce chronic health effects. In addition, prolonged and irregular work schedules increase susceptibility to circadian rhythm disruption, worsening adverse health outcomes. This study aimed to examine the interaction between light at night and burn pit exposure and their effects on neuroinflammatory and behavioral outcomes in mice. Thirty-two male Swiss Webster mice were housed either in dark nights (LD) or dim light at night (DLAN) condition. During week 4, mice from each group were exposed to either filtered air (FA) or burn pit emissions (BPE) for 4 hr/ day over 6 days. For the BPE‑exposed mice, the average exposure concentrations were 6.9 mg/m3 (mass) and 4.03E6 #/cc (particle counts). The mice housed in LD conditions and exposed to FA served as an experimental control group. Behavioral testing conducted 24 hr after the last exposure resulted in no significant differences in distance traveled, spatial working memory, or anxiety-like behavior in open field, y-maze, and elevated plus maze. However, DLAN-FA mice exhibited reduced average speed in comparison to LD-FA. qRT-PCR analysis revealed decreased expression of proinflammatory cytokine genes in hippocampus (Il6, Tnfα, and Il1β) and cortex (Il6) of LD-BPE mice. Significant changes in gene expression were not observed in lungs and liver. Reduced Bmal1 expression was noted in hippocampus of LD-BPE mice, whereas DLAN-FA group increased Bmal1 and Cry1 expression in cortex. Our data demonstrate that light at night modulates neuroimmune and circadian responses following repeated BPE exposures.
Prostate cancer (PCa) is one of the most common cancers in males, and its treatment remains challenging due to the tumor microenvironment (TME) with immunosuppressive properties and limited response to anti-PD-1 therapy. Gut microbiota-derived metabolites have recently emerged as modulators of cancer immunometabolism, however, their role in PCa progression and immunotherapy is poorly understood. Here we found that indole-3-lactic acid (ILA), a metabolite produced by Lactobacillus plantarum, exerted dual anti-tumor effects on PCa cells and the TME. Mechanistically, ILA activates the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR), and the resulting AHR/ARNT heterodimer translocates into the nucleus and binds to the promoter of ASF1B. This heterodimer then recruits the HDAC1/2-NuRD complex to reduce H3K27ac levels and suppress ASF1B expression. ASF1B binds to specific residues of ENO1 via its N-terminal core domain and enhances ENO1 enzymatic activity. ILA-induced downregulation of ASF1B impairs this interaction, reduces ENO1 activity, and suppresses the PI3K/Akt pathway, thereby inhibiting the malignant phenotypes of PCa cells. Concurrently, ILA decreased CXCL8 secretion by inhibiting the PI3K/Akt/NF-κB pathway, enhancing CD8+ T cell infiltration and M1 macrophage polarization, thereby remodeling the TME. Additionally, ILA synergized with anti-PD-1 therapy to more effectively suppress tumor growth. These findings reveal a novel mechanism by which gut microbiota-derived metabolites regulate PCa progression and immunometabolism, positioning ILA as a potential therapeutic agent to improve PCa treatment.© 2026. The Author(s).
Adequate sleep is essential for biological rhythmicity and metabolic homeostasis, but chronic sleep restriction (CSR), a common modern challenge, disrupts hypothalamic function and contributes to circadian dysregulation, oxidative stress, and metabolic disturbances. This study investigated the effects of AdipoRon (AR), an adiponectin receptor agonist, on CSR-associated changes in hypothalamic clock-gene expression, oxidative stress markers, and components of the SIRT1/NRF2/HO-1 signaling axis. Male mice were assigned to control, CSR, CSR + Melatonin (Mel), and CSR + AR groups. Animals underwent 21 days of sleep restriction (18 h/day) using the multiple-platform approach and received intranasal AR (10 µg) or Mel (40 µg) daily for 21 days. Circadian clock genes (Clock, Bmal1, Per1, and Cry1), oxidative stress markers (malondialdehyde, superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase, and total antioxidant capacity), and components of the SIRT1/NRF2/HO-1 pathway were assessed in the hypothalamus. Serum lipid profile and liver enzymes were also measured. The results showed that CSR induced marked alterations in hypothalamic clock-related gene expression, accompanied by increased oxidative stress and reduced expression of SIRT1/NRF2/HO-1 pathway-related proteins. In addition, CSR reduced body weight gain and triglyceride levels while increasing low-density lipoprotein (LDL), aspartate transaminase (AST), and alanine aminotransferase (ALT). In contrast, AR treatment partially reversed CSR-associated alterations in clock-related gene expression, attenuated oxidative stress, reduced LDL and ALT levels, and increased the expression of SIRT1/NRF2/HO-1 pathway-related proteins. These findings suggest that AR may mitigate CSR-associated molecular and metabolic alterations and warrant further investigation into its underlying mechanisms.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In most Bacillus thuringiensis strains, the cry genes are transcribed by RNA polymerases containing sporulation-sigma factors E or K, leading to the formation of an insecticidal crystal within the mother cell along spore development. The kurstaki HD1 strain, a parent of commercial strains, also releases the insecticidal proteins Cry1I and Vip3A in the extracellular medium. vip3A expression is activated by the transcriptional regulator VipR at the onset of the stationary phase. Here, we expanded the VipR regulon in strain HD1 by identifying the VipR-binding box upstream from the cry2Aa, cry2Ab, and cry1Ia genes, and conducting transcription assays. Unexpectedly, a VipR box was located in the promoter of a putative N-acetylmuramoyl-l-alanine amidase (ami) gene upstream from cry1Ac in strain kurstaki HD73, closely related to the HD1 but devoid of vipR. Introduction of vipR in this strain led to the expression of the ami-cry1Ac operon, resulting in an early and increased production of Cry1Ac. We demonstrated that Cry1Ac was also produced in a VipR-dependent manner in an HD73 ∆spo0A mutant. Similarly, an HD1 ∆spo0A strain produces all the insecticidal proteins encoded in its genome, including cry2Ab, previously considered unexpressed. A genomic analysis also revealed the presence of putative VipR-binding sequences in lepidopteran-active strains, upstream from cry genes such as cry1E, cry1F, cry9D, and cry9E. Overall, our results break the dogma on the regulation of cry1A and cry2A genes and provide evidence of sporulation-independent Cry toxin production in biopesticidal Bt strains.IMPORTANCEBacillus thuringiensis is a remarkably efficient entomopathogen due to its ability to produce various insecticidal proteins, such as Cry or Vip. This property has made it a highly effective biopesticide used worldwide. Our work modifies the paradigm of cry1 and cry2 genes being regulated solely by sporulation-specific sigma factors and thus exclusively expressed during this process. Indeed, we demonstrated that the VipR regulator controls the transcription of vip3Aa, cry2Aa, cry2Ab, cry1Ia, and the ami-cry1A operons encoded by a strain closely related to that of commercial biopesticides and specifically turns on their expression from the onset of the stationary phase, leading to the production of insecticidal crystals independently of sporulation. By providing new knowledge on the regulation of insecticidal protein genes, these findings bring new insight for the genetic improvement of Bt strains used as commercial biopesticides.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42551134 is a review article
This study investigated the capacity of Clostridium butyricum CB-a, a novel environmental isolate with unique ecological adaptability, to restore host-microbiome homeostasis in a dextran sodium sulfate (DSS)-induced murine model of intestinal dysbiosis. Integrated 16S rRNA gene sequencing and untargeted LC-MS/MS metabolomics revealed that CB-a (1 × 10⁸ CFU/mL, administered orally) fundamentally restructured the colonic microbial architecture. Specifically, it enriched beneficial, short-chain fatty acid (SCFA)-producing consortia (e.g., Lactobacillus, Bacteroides, and Alloprevotella) while suppressing opportunistic pathobionts (Escherichia-Shigella) and mitigating excessive mucin-degrading bacteria (Akkermansia). This ecological shift was accompanied by a pronounced metabolic reconfiguration, highlighted by the significant restoration of fecal SCFA pools, predominantly butyrate (P < 0.05). Mechanistically, multi-omics correlation potential that the CB-a-driven microbial remodeling alleviates mucosal inflammation through SCFA-linked host-microbe signaling. This pathway explicitly involves the upregulation of G-protein-coupled receptors (GPR41, GPR43, and GPR109A), the inhibition of histone deacetylases (HDAC1/2), and the subsequent reinforcement of epithelial tight junction proteins (ZO-1, Occludin). Furthermore, CB-a significantly attenuated systemic pro-inflammatory cytokine expression while restoring superoxide dismutase (SOD) antioxidant capacity. These findings provide mechanistic insights into how this specific environmental isolate modulates the intestinal microenvironment, offering a robust theoretical basis for deploying C. butyricum in functional interventions targeting microbiota-associated inflammatory disruptions.IMPORTANCESevere gut inflammation, such as inflammatory bowel disease, is often driven by a breakdown in our natural gut bacteria. Although probiotics are popular treatments, how they actually repair the gut remains largely unknown. Our study highlights the remarkable healing ability of Clostridium butyricum CB-a, a natural bacterium isolated from the environment. We discovered that this microbe acts as an ecological engineer for the digestive system. It actively rescues the damaged gut by promoting the growth of beneficial bacteria and suppressing harmful ones. This positive shift triggers the release of natural, healing molecules that calm the immune system and rebuild the protective gut lining. By uncovering the exact steps this bacterium takes to restore digestive harmony, our work provides a powerful blueprint for designing highly targeted, natural probiotic therapies to combat severe intestinal diseases.
Asymmetric cell division generates distinct daughter cells essential for tissue development, yet the mechanisms orienting division polarity within tissues remain incompletely understood. Here, we uncover a role for chromatin-mediated transcriptional repression in controlling polarity orientation during asymmetric division of C. elegans epidermal stem cells, known as the seam cells. Tissue-specific loss of the class I histone deacetylase hda-1, homologous to mammalian HDAC1/2, causes polarity reversals and reduces molecular asymmetry between daughter cells. Using Targeted DamID, we identify the Wnt receptors lin-17/Frizzled and cam-1/Ror as key targets. Single-molecule FISH reveals opposing expression gradients along the body axis, with cam-1 enriched anteriorly and lin-17 posteriorly. In hda-1 mutants, both receptors are upregulated and differences between seam cells are flattened. Overexpression of either receptor alone is sufficient to reproduce the polarity reversals, while co-overexpression produces additive effects. The polarity phenotype is independent of the canonical NuRD and SIN3 complexes, suggesting that HDA-1 acts through an alternative mechanism. These findings link histone deacetylase activity to Wnt receptor expression and suggest that graded receptor expression may provide cues that orient asymmetric division polarity.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) can differentiate into various types of central nervous system organoids which are valuable for applications in tissue engineering and injury repair. The secreted extracellular vesicles (EVs) of organoids, in particular the small-sized EV subset referred as exosomes (30-200 nm), have emerged as novel therapeutics in regenerative medicine. This study investigated the encapsulation and controlled release of human spinal cord organoid (hSCO)-derived EVs in viscoelastic hyaluronic acid (HA) hydrogels and assessed their impact on organoid patterning. A series of pH-responsive hydrogels were fabricated, leading to sustained EV release regulated by viscoelastic properties. The pH of these hydrogels decreased from 9 to 7 during incubation, which altered hydrogel viscoelasticity, thereby modulating EV release kinetics. In addition, EV-loaded hydrogels regulated key hSCO patterning markers such as DBX1 and ISL1. Furthermore, these EVs in hydrogels can cross a modeled blood-spinal cord barrier and provide cross-barrier capability for delivery. Taken together, the organoid-secreted EVs in viscoelastic HA hydrogels can be released at a controlled rate and have potential to regulate spinal cord organoid patterning. This study advances our knowledge of regulating intercellular communication and developing EV-based therapies for treating neurological disorders such as spinal cord injury.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Hepatic fibrosis (HF) serves as a critical pathological process underlying the progression of cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Despite its clinical relevance, effective anti‑fibrotic therapies remain scarce. Although total ginsenosides (GSS) can ameliorate hepatic oxidative damage and attenuate the development of HF, the molecular mechanism mediating their anti‑fibrotic effects remains incompletely elucidated. Notably, circadian clock gene dysregulation is associated with hepatic metabolic dyshomeostasis and the fibrotic process. As a core circadian gene in the liver, clock circadian regulator (CLOCK) serves a role in the progression of fibrosis. The present study hypothesized that GSS may exert anti‑fibrotic effects by restoring hepatic circadian rhythmicity through circadian clock‑dependent pathways. Using a well‑established carbon tetrachloride‑induced murine model of HF in C57BL/6 mice, GSS was administered intraperitoneally at graded doses of 50, 100 and 200 mg/kg. Subsequently, serum and liver tissues were collected from mice for histopathological examination. Furthermore, the expression levels of fibrotic markers (α‑smooth muscle actin and collagen type 1) and circadian rhythm genes [CLOCK, basic helix‑loop‑helix ARNT‑like 1, cryptochrome (CRY)1, CRY2, period circadian protein homolog (PER)1 and PER2 were assessed. At the cellular level, LX‑2 hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) were activated with TGF‑β1 and treated with GSS, after which, RNA sequencing was performed on GSS‑treated cells. In addition, the CLOCK inhibitor (CLK8) was used for in vitro experiments. The results of the present study revealed that GSS intervention effectively reversed the dysregulation of circadian gene expression and alleviated the progression of fibrosis. Molecular docking analysis further supported the interaction between GSS active components and the CLOCK protein. Thus, the current study focused on GSS and explored its role in ameliorating HF through regulation of the core circadian gene CLOCK. Collectively, the findings demonstrated that GSS may alleviate HF by rescuing circadian clock‑driven circadian homeostasis in hepatocytes and HSCs, thereby providing mechanistic insight into traditional Chinese medicine‑based interventions and identifying CLOCK as a druggable node for fibrosis therapy.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) exhibits substantial metabolic heterogeneity. This study developed a robust prognostic signature integrating ferroptosis- and lipid metabolism-related genes to investigate the role of CRY2 in CRC progression.Transcriptomic and clinical data from the TCGA-COAD and GSE39582 cohorts were analyzed. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) was performed to identify disease-associated gene modules. A machine learning framework was subsequently applied to construct and optimize the prognostic model, with the combination of forward stepwise Cox regression (StepCox) and Random Survival Forest demonstrating the best predictive performance. The tumor immune microenvironment was characterized using CIBERSORT and TIDE. The biological function of CRY2 was validated through siRNA-mediated knockdown, functional assays, and a murine xenograft model.The ferroptosis- and lipid metabolism-related RiskScore was identified as an independent predictor of overall survival (HR > 1.1, p < 0.001). Patients in the high-risk group showed poorer overall survival and an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME) characterized by increased regulatory T cells (Tregs) and Th2 cells, reduced CD4+ T-cell infiltration, and higher TIDE scores, suggesting immunotherapy resistance. Among the signature genes, CRY2 was identified as a key regulator associated with CRC progression. In vitro, CRY2 knockdown inhibited CRC cell proliferation and migration while inducing G1-phase cell-cycle arrest. In vivo, silencing CRY2 significantly suppressed xenograft tumor growth and reduced Ki-67 expression.This study developed and validated a ferroptosis- and lipid metabolism-related prognostic signature that accurately predicts survival outcomes and immune characteristics in CRC. Furthermore, CRY2 was identified as a critical regulator of tumor growth.
Bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) is a major complication of prematurity, characterized by impaired alveolar epithelium regeneration and long-term respiratory morbidity. The cellular basis of this defect and the underlying epithelial-mesenchymal signals remain unclear. To define alveolar type 2 (AT2) cell heterogeneity and regenerative capacity, we analyzed lineage-traced AT2 cells in neonatal mice exposed to hyperoxia (85% O2, postnatal days 1-14). We assessed cellular states and function by flow cytometry, transcriptomics, and organoid assays. During normal lung development, AT2 cells gradually segregated into two transcriptionally distinct subpopulations, TomHigh and TomLow. TomHigh cells exhibited canonical AT2 identity, lipid metabolism, and enhanced mitochondrial function, showing strong organoid-forming and differentiation potential. TomLow cells displayed metabolic restriction and limited regenerative capacity. Hyperoxia caused alveolar simplification, expanding TomLow cells at the expense of TomHigh cells. AT2 cells entered a proliferative state and became Krt8+ transitional cells, but RNA velocity and lineage analyses showed impaired maturation toward AT1 cells, leading to persistent AT1 deficiency. Hyperoxia induced Sfrp1 and Frzb expression in a rare but detectable Sftpc+Acta2+ AT2 subset, and more prominently in Pdgfra+ fibroblasts, which adopted a myofibroblast-like phenotype. Fibroblast-epithelial co-culture and fibroblast-specific Sfrp1/Frzb overexpression impaired organoid formation and reduced AT2-to-AT1 differentiation. These findings identify a fibroblast-dominated Sfrp1/Frzb-mediated niche that constrains AT2 differentiation into AT1 cells, providing a cellular basis for impaired alveolar regeneration in BPD and suggesting potential therapeutic targets.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Thoracic Society. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension (IPAH) exhibits a marked female predominance. Despite this "estrogen paradox," the molecular basis of sex-associated pathogenesis remains incompletely understood, limiting the development of precision diagnostic strategies.To develop a sex-stratified computational framework that integrates transcriptomic profiling and ensemble machine learning to identify female-associated candidate biomarkers in IPAH.Sex-stratified differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were derived from pulmonary arterial endothelial cells (GSE303084, n = 48) and lung tissue (GSE126262, n = 16). Functional mechanisms were explored via GO/KEGG enrichment and protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks. A consensus machine learning framework incorporating 12 feature selection algorithms prioritized stable candidate biomarkers. Model performance was evaluated using a leakage-free repeated stratified 5-fold cross-validation framework, followed by independent external validation in a female IPAH cohort. Sex-associated immune landscapes were characterized via CIBERSORTx-based deconvolution.Female-associated DEGs were associated with metabolic dysregulation, lysosomal pathways, and TGF-β/Wnt signaling. PPI analysis identified MMP1, SFRP1, SNAI2, ADAM12, and INHBA as central hub genes. The ensemble framework prioritized METTL27 and CDH11 as candidate biomarkers. A two-gene signature (METTL27 + CDH11) demonstrated robust performance under leakage-free repeated cross-validation (XGBoost mean AUC 0.875 ± 0.161) and correctly identified 26 of 28 female IPAH patients in an independent external cohort (patient-detection sensitivity 92.9%; 95% CI, 77.4-98.0%). Immune deconvolution revealed marked sex dimorphism, with adaptive immune enrichment in females and innate myeloid predominance in males.Our approach identifies a candidate two-gene signature (METTL27/CDH11) for female IPAH and highlights TGF-β/Wnt signaling, metabolic, and immune dimorphism as key drivers of sex-associated pathogenesis. These findings provide a foundation for future clinical and experimental validation of sex-informed candidate molecular biomarkers in IPAH.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Cardiac hypertrophy refers to the compensatory response of the heart to various physiological or pathological stimuli in order to maintain its function. Let-7e-5p has been reported to be upregulated in patients with cardiac hypertrophy.This study aimed to investigate the role of let-7e-5p in the progression of cardiac hypertrophy using animal and cell models.Peripheral blood was collected from patients with cardiac hypertrophy and healthy controls to detect let-7e-5p expression via reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR). An aortic banding (AB)-induced cardiac hypertrophy rat model was established to explore let-7e-5p expression in vivo. Antagomir let-7e-5p was used to investigate the effects of let-7e-5p silencing on cardiac hypertrophy progression in an AB-induced rat model. Angiotensin II (Ang II) was used to induce hypertrophy in H9c2 rat cardiomyocytes in vitro. The downstream regulatory mechanism of let-7e-5p was investigated in H9c2 cells.We first examined and verified that let-7e-5p was upregulated in blood samples from patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) compared to healthy controls and showed good diagnostic performance according to receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis. In vivo, let-7e-5p was overexpressed in the heart tissues of AB-induced cardiac hypertrophy rats. Let-7e-5p deficiency alleviated AB surgery-induced cardiac hypertrophy in rat models. In vitro, let-7e-5p expression was higher in Ang II-induced H9c2 rat cardiomyocytes. Let-7e-5p inhibition reversed the Ang II-induced increase in cardiomyocyte size and the upregulation of ANP, BNP, and β-MHC expression, whereas let-7e-5p overexpression showed the opposite effects. Mechanistically, limb-bud and heart (LBH) was identified as a target of let-7e-5p, and LBH overexpression reversed the promotive effects of let-7e-5p on hypertrophy in Ang II-treated H9c2 cells. IGF-PI3K-AKT signaling was activated in Ang II-treated H9c2 cells, and let-7e-5p silencing suppressed its activation by targeting LBH. The IGF1R inhibitor PQ401 reversed the enhancement of H9c2 hypertrophy induced by let-7e-5p upregulation or LBH silencing.Let-7e-5p promotes cardiac hypertrophy by targeting LBH and regulating the IGF-PI3K-AKT signaling pathway, which may provide novel insights into targeted therapy.
Magnetic orientation is essential for subterranean termites during foraging and homing. Although neuronal mechanisms are known to be central to magnetoreception, the specific regulatory proteins involved in this process remain unclear. Here, we report that the expression of the neuronal protein nitric oxide synthase (NOS) in the subterranean termite Odontotermes formosanus was significantly reduced under a strong magnetic field (0.1 mT) and upon elimination of the horizontal component of the geomagnetic field. RNA interference-mediated silencing of NOS led to significant downregulation of the magnetoreception gene Cryptochrome 2 (Cry2) and disrupted magnetic orientation in O. formosanus, indicating that NOS is integral to magnetoreception. Consistently, pharmacological inhibition of NOS by L-NAME decreased nitric oxide (NO) levels and abolished magnetic orientation. Together, our behavioural and molecular evidences suggest that NOS plays a critical regulatory role in termite magnetic orientation, which provides new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying insect magnetoreception.© 2026 Royal Entomological Society.
Red light promotes PsbS transcription through the PHYs-COP1 module, blue light through the CRY1/CRY2-COP1 pathway, and UV-B via the UVR8-COP1-HY5 cascade. ABA negatively regulates PsbS through the PYLs-SnRK2s-ABI5 signaling pathway. Non-photochemical quenching (NPQ) is a central photoprotective mechanism that enables plants to dissipate excess excitation energy under high light conditions, with PsbS functioning as a key regulatory protein. However, the environmental cues controlling PsbS transcription and the underlying regulatory mechanisms remain largely unclear. Analysis of the core promoter region of PsbS identified light-responsive element G-box and abscisic acid-responsive element (ABRE) cis-elements; dual-luciferase reporter assays confirmed that the core PsbS promoter can respond to light and abscisic acid (ABA) signals. Expression analyses showed that red, blue, and ultraviolet-B (UV-B) light significantly induced PsbS transcription, whereas ABA treatment repressed it. Genetic and signaling analyses revealed that red light promotes PsbS transcription through the PHYs-COP1 module, blue light through the CRY1/CRY2-COP1 pathway, and UV-B via the UVR8-COP1-HY5 cascade. In contrast, ABA negatively regulates PsbS through the PYLs-SnRK2s-ABI5 signaling pathway. Yeast one-hybrid (Y1H) screening identified 36 candidate transcription factors targeting PsbS. Dual-luciferase assays and electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSA) further confirmed that bZIP2, bZIP16, bZIP43, CCA1, and IDD1 act as candidate transcriptional repressors of PsbS. This study systematically integrates known light and ABA signaling pathways that regulate PsbS expression, providing potential molecular targets for improving crop photosynthetic efficiency.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by early synaptic dysfunction followed by progressive amyloid beta (Aβ) accumulation, neuroinflammation, and cognitive decline. We previously identified secreted frizzled-related protein 1 (SFRP1) as a multifactorial contributor to AD pathogenesis and provided initial evidence that its neutralization ameliorates pathological AD-like traits in mice. Here we evaluate the pharmacodynamics, biodistribution, and therapeutic window of an anti-SFRP1 monoclonal antibody (α-SFRP1) in double transgenic amyloid precursor protein (APP) and presenilin-1 (PS1) mice (APP/PS1).Pharmacokinetics and target engagement of α-SFRP1 were assessed in groups of both male and female APP/PS1 mice using biotinylated or Zirconium-89 labeled (89Zr) antibodies, with tissue distribution and α-SFRP1 levels quantified by in-house enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) or positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT). Therapeutic efficacy was evaluated by administering α-SFRP1 or the SFRP1 inhibitor WAY-316606 at different stages of disease progression via retro-orbital injection, followed by analysis of AD-like pathology using ELISA and quantitative immunofluorescence assays and statistical analysis.Using 89Zr-labeled antibodies, we show that intravenously administered α-SFRP1 engages its target systemically and reaches the brain, although at substantially lower levels and with a rapid 24-h clearance. Treatment with α-SFRP1 had no apparent systemic side effects or sex-dependent differences, but its therapeutic efficacy against AD-like brain pathology was strongly dependent on disease stage. Although early administration reduced amyloid pathology in previous studies, treatment initiated at intermediate or advanced stages showed minimal benefit at standard doses. Higher antibody doses reduced amyloid burden and dystrophic neurites but were associated with increased mortality. Pharmacological inhibition of SFRP1 using a small-molecule inhibitor similarly failed to ameliorate pathology at intermediate stages.Together, these findings demonstrate that SFRP1 remains a relevant therapeutic target in AD, but its effective modulation is constrained by limited brain exposure and a narrow therapeutic window, underscoring the importance of early intervention and prompting the search for improved brain-targeted delivery strategies.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research & Clinical Interventions published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42504374 is a review article
Peripheral T-cell lymphoma, not otherwise specified (PTCL-NOS), is a heterogeneous nodal T- and natural killer (NK)-cell lymphoma with limited prognostic biomarkers. A subset of PTCL-NOS characterized by Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) involvement in tumour cells has recently been recognized as EBV-positive nodal T- and NK-cell lymphoma (EBV+ nPTCL), a distinct entity in the fifth edition of the World Health Organization classification of haematolymphoid neoplasms (WHO-HAEM5). However, the clinical significance of circulating EBV deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) in PTCL-NOS remains unclear. Patients initially diagnosed with PTCL-NOS who received first-line systemic chemotherapy at a single-centre between 2007 and 2025 were retrospectively analysed. Cases were reclassified according to WHO-HAEM5 using EBV-encoded small ribonucleic acid (EBER) in situ hybridization and pathological review. Among 101 patients, 4 were reclassified as EBV+ nPTCL using a ≥50% tumour cell EBER positivity cut-off and excluded, yielding a cohort of 97 patients with WHO-HAEM5-defined PTCL-NOS. Baseline blood EBV-DNA positivity was observed in 42.3%. EBV-DNA-positive patients demonstrated significantly shorter progression-free and overall survival (OS) compared with EBV-DNA-negative patients. In multivariate analyses, EBV-DNA positivity independently predicted poorer survival outcomes. Exploratory analyses indicated that EBV-DNA clearance during chemotherapy was associated with improved OS. These findings suggest that blood EBV-DNA may serve as a prognostic biomarker in patients with PTCL-NOS.© 2026 The Author(s). British Journal of Haematology published by British Society for Haematology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42567738
Burn injuries constitute a significant global health challenge, with deep partial-thickness burns (deep second-degree) posing particular clinical concerns due to prolonged healing and high scarring risks stemming from reticular dermis damage. Current therapeutic strategies remain largely empirical, reflecting limited understanding of stage-specific regulatory mechanisms. This study systematically investigated the molecular basis of deep partial-thickness burn repair by establishing murine models and performing RNA-seq analysis across healing phases (0, 3, 7, 14 days post-burn, dpb). Integrated bioinformatics revealed pivotal ceRNA and PPI networks, identifying hif1a (hypoxia-responsive immunomodulator) and col1a1 (ECM remodeling hub) as nodal regulators. Mechanistically, mmu-miR-101a-3p and mmu-miR-181a-5p were validated as post-transcriptional repressors of col1a1 and hif1a, respectively. Our work pioneers the discovery of the mmu-miR-181a-5p/hif1a and mmu-miR-101a-3p/col1a1 axes as master regulators of burn repair, offering novel therapeutic targets. The multi-omics dataset and molecular networks established herein provide a foundational resource for wound healing research.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Postoperative radiation therapy (PORT) is widely recommended following surgical resection of adenoid cystic carcinoma (ACC) of the major salivary glands, yet its association with overall survival in the contemporary treatment era remains incompletely characterized. Using the National Cancer Database, we identified 2,384 patients with nonmetastatic ACC of the major salivary glands who underwent definitive surgical resection between 2004 and 2021. Of these, 1,776 (74.5%) received PORT and 608 (25.5%) underwent surgery alone. Median follow-up was 75.9 months, and follow-up was censored at 100 months to account for the indolent natural history of ACC. PORT was associated with improved 8-year overall survival compared to surgery alone (76.9% vs 70.3%), which remained significant on multivariable analysis after adjustment for age, sex, comorbidity, extent of disease, margin status, and chemotherapy receipt (HR 0.76, 95% CI 0.62-0.95, p = 0.013). This benefit extended to patients with early-stage disease (pT1-2 N0/NX: HR 0.65, 95% CI 0.51-0.85, p = 0.001), large tumors without nodal involvement (pT3-4 N0/NX: HR 0.69, 95% CI 0.48-0.99, p = 0.043), and negative surgical margins (HR 0.67, 95% CI 0.51-0.89, p = 0.006). However, among patients with pT3-4 tumors and positive surgical margins, PORT was not associated with improved overall survival (HR 0.81, 95% CI 0.48-1.37, p = 0.423), a finding that was robust on adjusted analysis (HR 0.97, 95% CI 0.56-1.68, p = 0.913). This subgroup may represent a biologically distinct and more aggressive subset of ACC in whom locoregional therapy alone is insufficient to alter survival outcomes, possibly due to a higher propensity for distant metastasis driving mortality. These findings support the broad use of PORT in nonmetastatic major salivary gland ACC while identifying a high-risk subgroup warranting further investigation into the role of systemic therapy and intensified multimodality treatment.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42567077 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42567017 is a review article
Axillary surgery for early breast cancer has become less aggressive. However, the optimal approach after neoadjuvant systemic therapy (NST) remains uncertain and depends on axillary response. Especially the significance of nodal micrometastases (ypN1mi) after NST regarding oncological outcome remains controversial. Our study retrospectively analyzed ypN1mi occurrence in five neoadjuvant GBG/AGO-B trials from 2012 to 2019.We analyzed 3211 high-risk early breast cancer patients from five neoadjuvant chemotherapy studies (GeparSepto, GeparOcto, GeparNuevo, GeparX, GeparOla). Patients who underwent breast surgery were analyzed based on type of axillary surgery, ypN1mi incidence, and its correlation with outcome.98.5% (3163/3211) of patients had breast surgery and axillary information data available. Before NST, 44.1% (1395/3163) had sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLNB), 0.7% (22/3163) underwent axillary lymph node dissection (ALND), and 55.2% (1746/3163) had no axillary surgery. After NST, 65.3% (2057/3150) underwent axillary surgery: SLNB only in 19.4% (612/3150), targeted lymph node biopsy (TLNB) only in 0.2% (5/3150), targeted axillary dissection (TAD) in 0.9% (27/3150), ALND only in 40.9% (1288/3150), and completion ALND following SLNB, TLNB, or TAD in 4.0% (125/3150). Disease-free survival (DFS) was significantly reduced with hazard ratios (HR) of 2.53 (CI 1.63-3.92; p < 0.001) for ypN1mi and 2.43 (CI 1.98-3.00; p < 0.001) for ypN1 compared to ypN0. Likewise, HRs for overall survival (OS) were 3.17 (CI 1.77-5.68) for ypN1mi and 3.03 (CI 2.28-4.03) for ypN1.Our data suggest that minimal axillary residuals after NST may affect DFS, DDFS and OS; however, further analysis is needed to assess other variables.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42566242 is a review article
To evaluate the dosimetric feasibility of combining stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) for peripheral tumors with conventionally fractionated mediastinal lymph node (MLN) radiotherapy in small cell lung cancer (SCLC), with a focus on tumor-nodal spatial separation and geometry-dependent dose redistribution.A retrospective virtual planning study was conducted in 21 patients with peripheral SCLC. Three treatment strategies were generated: (1) SBRT 40 Gy in 5 fractions plus MLN radiotherapy 60 Gy in 30 fractions, (2) SBRT 50 Gy in 5 fractions plus MLN radiotherapy, and (3) conventional thoracic radiotherapy (60 Gy in 30 fractions). Target coverage and dose-volume parameters for organs at risk (OARs) were compared. Biological dose normalization using equivalent dose in 2 Gy fractions (EQD2), based on the linear-quadratic model, and prescription-matched sensitivity analyses were performed.All strategies achieved adequate target coverage. SBRT-based approaches significantly reduced low-dose lung exposure compared with conventional radiotherapy, particularly in the 40 Gy regimen (lung V5 - 7.34%, V10 - 3.34%, V20 - 2.20%; all p ≤ 0.003), along with a reduction in mean lung dose (-125.74 cGy, p < .001). In exploratory EQD2-normalized analysis, the reduction in mean lung dose remained statistically significant (-0.95 Gy EQD2, p < .001). In prescription-matched analyses, lung V5 remained significantly lower, indicating that differences were not solely attributable to prescription dose. Patients with tumor-nodal spatial separation ≥2 cm exhibited lower doses to multiple OARs, supporting a geometry-dependent reduction in normal tissue exposure.Combining SBRT with MLN radiotherapy is dosimetrically feasible in selected patients with SCLC, with feasibility strongly influenced by tumor-nodal spatial separation. Reduced low-dose lung exposure appears to be associated with geometry-dependent dose redistribution. These findings provide a rationale for further investigation of geometry-informed treatment strategies in prospective clinical studies.
Retinoblastoma (RB) lacks effective targeted therapies. Super-enhancers (SEs) are crucial for tumorigenesis, yet their role in RB was unclear.We profiled active SEs in RB cells using chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-Seq) and RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq). qRT-PCR, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-Seq) and immunohistochemistry (IHC) were employed to identify the critical regulator of SE activity. The anti-tumour effect of targeted blockade of SE regulator, achieved via pharmacological degradation and specific lentiviruses, was investigated in vitro and in preclinical models of subcutaneous, intraocular, and central nervous system (CNS)-metastatic RB.Cyclin-dependent kinase 12 (CDK12) was identified as a key SE regulator. SE-driven oncogenic transcription was suppressed by CDK12 inhibition, leading to eliminated tumour outgrowth and metastasis. In addition, SE-associated oncogenes BIRC5 and PTPRC were identified as essential for RB cell survival and stemness. Furthermore, PTPRC overexpression rescued the anti-tumour effect of BSJ-4-116.This study defines CDK12 as a master regulator of oncogenic SEs in RB. Targeting the CDK12-SE axis, via CDK12 or downstream effectors like BIRC5/PTPRC, presents a novel therapeutic strategy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Bone invasion is a strong indicator of a poor prognosis in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC), although the underlying mechanisms are still unclear. Due to the limited resolution of bulk sequencing, the specific malignant epithelial cell (EPC) subpopulation responsible for bone invasion and its regulatory network have long been unclear. We developed a comprehensive cellular atlas of EPCs in bone-invasive HNSCC using single-cell transcriptome sequencing, and we carefully examined their subpopulation heterogeneity, functional states, and transcriptional regulatory networks. The primary subpopulation found to be associated with bone invasion was the C2 ITGA6⁺ EPC. Mechanistically, these intermediate transitional cells may facilitate bone invasion via an epithelial-mesenchymal transition program controlled by TP63, with connections between the tumor microenvironment regulated by LAMININ and EPHB signaling. This discovery may help develop customized treatment options by providing a novel single-cell-resolution viewpoint on the molecular associations underlying bone-invasive HNSCC.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 (FGFR3) is one of the most frequently altered genes in bladder cancer, primarily through activating mutations that drive oncogenesis and are enriched in luminal tumors. However, the underlying gene regulatory network (GRN) remains poorly characterized. Here, we constructed an FGFR3-mutated GRN using a bottom-up bioinformatics approach, integrating transcriptomic data from bladder cancer cell lines, FGFR3-mutated tumors, and FGFR3 perturbation experiments in human and mouse models. Using publicly available CRISPR/Cas9 screening data, we identified transcription factors from this GRN that regulate the viability of FGFR3-mutated cells, with a focus on p63 (TP63). We showed that FGFR3 activation upregulates p63 in patient-derived xenografts and cell lines, while single-cell RNA sequencing revealed heterogeneous p63 activation associated with basal differentiation. Functional studies, including TP63 knockdown in FGFR3-dependent in vitro and in vivo models and RNA-seq along with p63 ChIP-seq, demonstrated that p63 directly promotes cell proliferation and migration and uncovered a positive feedback loop between FGFR3 and p63. Together, these findings support p63 as a protumorigenic regulator in FGFR3-mutated tumors despite their luminal differentiation and provide a detailed FGFR3-driven GRN, offering insights into FGFR3-induced oncogenic dependency and potential strategies to circumvent resistance to FGFR inhibitors.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42544019
Split-hand/foot malformation (SHFM) is a group of congenital birth defects affecting the hands and feet, significantly impairing patients quality of life. The TP63 gene encodes the p63 protein, heterozygous TP63 variants can cause SHFM. The aim of this study was to identify TP63 gene variants in three Chinese families with SHFM.Three Chinese families with SHFM enrolled in this study. Proband 1 and Proband two had familial history of SHFM, whereas Proband 3 was a sporadic case of this disease. Peripheral blood was collected from the proband and their available family members for genomic DNA extraction. Candidate pathogenic variants were identified through whole exome sequencing (WES), validated using PCR-based Sanger sequencing and bioinformatic analysis.We found three different missense variants in the TP63 gene: c.2032G>C (p.Glu678Gln), c.956G>A (p.Arg319His), and c.689T>A (p.Val230Asp). Among them, c.689T>A (p.Val230Asp) is novel variant.In the present work, three TP63 gene variants were found in the families with SHFM, which expanded the variant spectrum of TP63. These findings not only provide further evidence for their heterogeneous role in limb and non-limb malformations but also broaden the genetic spectrum of associated disorders. These insights pave the way for improved prenatal genetic diagnosis and informed counseling.Copyright © 2026 Gu, Tao, Wang, Zhao and Shen.
This study aims to explore the regulatory role of the TP63 gene in interstitial cystitis (IC) and its molecular mechanism of involvement in disease occurrence and development through the pyroptosis pathway through single-cell sequencing and bioinformatics analysis, and evaluate its potential as a therapeutic target and biomarker.A 6-8 week SPF grade female SD rat IC model was constructed by intraperitoneal injection of cyclophosphamide (n=10/group, repeated 3 times). The model construction effect was verified by the Von Frey fiber tenderness method, urodynamic evaluation, and bladder histopathological analysis. Screening key genes related to apoptosis in bladder tissue of IC rats using single-cell sequencing and bioinformatics analysis. In vitro experiments were conducted using lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to treat immortalized human ureteral epithelial cells (SV-HUC-1) to establish a cellular inflammation model (n=6/group, repeated 3 times), and the transcription level changes of the TP63 gene were detected by RT-PCR. Western blotting was used to detect the expression of apoptosis-related proteins and NF-κB/NLRP3/caspase-1 signaling pathway proteins (caspase-1, GSDMD, ASC) in the bladder tissue of IC rats. The CCK8 method and EdU experiment were used to evaluate cell survival rate and proliferation ability, respectively. ChIP-qPCR was conducted to detect the binding of TP63 to the RELA promoter region. The role of caspase-1 in the pyroptosis pathway was verified using the caspase-1 inhibitor.Single-cell sequencing and bioinformatics analysis showed that the TP63 gene was significantly upregulated in the bladder tissue of IC rats (p<0.0001). Western blotting results showed a significant increase in the expression of apoptosis-related proteins in the IC model (p<0.0001), while HE staining showed a significant increase in the infiltration of mast cells, macrophages, and T cells (p<0.05). In vitro experiments, Western blotting results showed that after LPS intervention, the expression of NLRP3 inflammasome component (ASC) and downstream effector molecule (GSDMD) in SV-HUC-1 increased, the apoptotic characteristic protein caspase-1 was activated, CCK-8 detected a decrease in cell viability, and Edu experiments showed inhibition of cell proliferation. After TP63 siRNA intervention, all the above effects were reversed. ChIP-qPCR confirmed that TP63 directly binds to the RELA promoter region, activating NF-κB signaling. Furthermore, caspase-1 inhibition experiments demonstrated that suppressing caspase-1 significantly alleviated TP63-mediated pyroptosis and inflammatory responses.TP63 contributes to the pathogenesis of IC by directly binding to the RELA promoter, activating NF-κB signaling, and subsequently regulating the NLRP3/caspase-1/GSDMD axis to induce bladder epithelial cell pyroptosis. TP63 shows promise as a potential biomarker and therapeutic target for IC.© 2026 the author(s), published by De Gruyter, Berlin/Boston.
Resistance to epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs) represents a major clinical challenge in the management of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Chromosome 4q12 locus is an important gene locus associated with progression-free survival (PFS) in NSCLC patients receiving EGFR-TKIs therapy. However, it remains poorly characterized how genes at this locus function in NSCLC development and resistance to EGFR-TKIs. Here, we found that CLOCK at this locus is highly expressed in NSCLC tissues and correlates with unfavorable PFS of patients. CLOCK promotes malignant proliferation and metastasis of NSCLC in vitro and in vivo. CLOCK could attenuate treatment efficacies of gefitinib (one of the first-generation EGFR-TKIs) or osimertinib (one of the third-generation EGFR-TKIs). Mechanistically, CLOCK functions as a transcriptional factor to upregulate LAMC2 transcription and expression in NSCLC cells. There was significantly elevated LAMC2 expressed in NSCLC tissues and its high levels were associated with shortened survival of patients. Indeed, CLOCK could activate multiple kinase signaling pathways, such as the PI3K-Akt signaling and the MAPK signaling, by facilitating either the LAMC2-ITGB1 interaction and the LAMC2-EGFR interaction and thereby accelerating NSCLC proliferation and conferring EGFR-TKI resistance. Collectively, these findings for the first time identify CLOCK as a critical mediator of EGFR-TKIs resistance and a promising target to overcome EGFR-TKIs resistance in NSCLC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Early-onset colorectal cancer (EOCRC) is increasing disproportionately among Hispanic/Latino (H/L) populations and demonstrates substantial molecular and clinical heterogeneity. Although Wingless/Integrated (WNT) pathway alterations are among the most common genomic events in colorectal cancer, their prognostic significance in the context of contemporary systemic therapies, including Bevacizumab, remains incompletely understood. We conducted an integrative clinical-genomic analysis of colorectal cancer cohorts stratified by age at diagnosis, ancestry, and Bevacizumab exposure, interrogating somatic alterations across curated WNT signaling pathway genes. Conversational artificial intelligence agents (AI-HOPE and AI-HOPE-WNT) enabled dynamic cohort construction, treatment-specific subgroup analyses, and pathway-level interrogation through natural language-driven clinical-genomic integration. WNT pathway alterations, predominantly involving APC, were highly prevalent across all cohorts; however, their distribution and clinical associations demonstrated strong treatment-, ancestry-, and age-dependent variability. Bevacizumab-treated tumors exhibited lower mutation frequencies in several WNT regulators, including RNF43, AXIN1/2, TCF7L2, and AMER1, suggesting potential biologic interaction or treatment-related selective pressure. Importantly, WNT pathway alterations were associated with improved overall survival in H/L EOCRC and Non-Hispanic White (NHW) late-onset colorectal cancer, but with worse survival in NHW EOCRC, highlighting distinct ancestry- and age-specific prognostic effects. These findings support the role of the WNT pathway dysregulation as a disparity-aware biomarker framework in colorectal cancer and demonstrate the utility of conversational AI systems for scalable multidimensional clinical-genomic integration in precision oncology.
Current approaches for preventing and suppressing the initiation and development of keratinocyte carcinoma remain limited, highlighting the urgent need to identify novel targets for tumor intervention. As major environmental pathogenic factor, chronic ultraviolet B (UVB) exposure promotes keratinocyte malignant transformation through epigenetic reprogramming, reshaping chromatin accessibility and gene expression program, which has not been fully elucidated. Here, we established a chronic UVB irradiation model to induce malignant transformation of keratinocytes and performed integrative analyses using ATAC-seq and RNA-seq. We identified 4903 differentially accessible regions (DARs), with increased accessibility at loci of tumor-promoting genes such as TP63, KRT13, KLF8, and EGFR, and enrichment of AP-1 family motifs. RNA-seq revealed 1136 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), predominantly enriched in inflammatory pathways. Integrative analysis highlighted concordant enrichment of inflammation-related genes within open chromatin regions. ATF3 was selected and its downregulated identified after UVB exposure. Functional assays confirmed that ATF3 represses chronic UVB-induced malignant transformation of keratinocytes. Notably, ChIP-qPCR validation verified GDA (Guanine deaminase) as the direct downstream target gene of ATF3. Reduced ATF3 binding elevates GDA promoter chromatin accessibility and upregulates GDA expression to drive malignant progression. In conclusion, our findings demonstrate that chronic UVB exposure remodels chromatin and transcriptomic landscapes and identify ATF3 and its direct target GDA as a critical tumor-suppressive regulatory module for UVB-induced keratinocyte carcinoma.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42510133 is a review article
A third of schizophrenia cases are resistant to antipsychotics, where clozapine is the only FDA-approved medication. Clozapine use is often limited by intolerable adverse effects. Persistent tachycardia occurs in approximately 25-54% patients receiving clozapine. Heart rate variability (HRV) is a non-invasive, clinically relevant marker of autonomic nervous system functioning. Atenolol and Ivabradine are usually prescribed for clozapine-induced tachycardia (CIT), although evidence guiding their optimal use remains limited.This study aimed to compare the effects of atenolol versus ivabradine on HRV in patients with treatment-resistant schizophrenia (TRS) receiving clozapine.This open-label randomised clinical trial, conducted at a tertiary-care center over 20 months, involved TRS patients on clozapine for more than three months and having persistent tachycardia. Twenty patients received atenolol 25mg once-daily, while twenty received ivabradine 5mg twice-daily for two months. The primary outcome was the change in the frequency domain of HRV, while the secondary outcomes were time-domains, central and peripheral blood pressure, pulse rate and treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAE).While both drugs significantly reduced pulse-rates (atenolol: -20.56±13.00, p<0.001; ivabradine: -21.855±12.873, p<0.001). Within-group analysis showed that, the atenolol group had significant improvements in high-frequency [HF] power (p=0.048) and LF/HF ratio (p=0.044), along with a non-significant trend towards increased total power (p=0.053); no significant within-group changes were observed in the ivabradine group.No significant between-group differences in HRV parameters were established between atenolol and ivabradine. Ivabradine could be a viable option in patients where atenolol is either contraindicated or not tolerated. Future larger multicentric studies are needed for greater generalisability.ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT06505668.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This study investigates the role of CIT gene in uterine corpus endometrial carcinoma (UCEC) progression, focusing on its regulation by m6A methylation. Bioinformatics and experimental analyses (EdU, colony formation assay, Dot blot, MeRIP-PCR, RNA pull-down, qRT-PCR, Western Blotting, apoptosis assay) revealed that CIT was significantly overexpressed in UCEC. Mechanistically, we found that the m6A writer RBM15-mediated CIT mRNA methylation, which was then recognized by the reader IGF2BP1 to enhance CIT mRNA stability and expression. Consequently, this m6A-mediated upregulation of CIT inhibited the Hippo signaling pathway, ultimately suppressing apoptosis and promoting malignant proliferation in UCEC. These findings elucidated a novel RBM15/IGF2BP1-CIT-Hippo axis, providing new theoretical insights and potential therapeutic targets for UCEC.© 2026 the Australian and New Zealand Society for Immunology, Inc.
Considering the shared physiological mechanisms between Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD), it is plausible that certain compounds may exert therapeutic effects on both neurological disorders. This study aimed to employ in silico techniques to investigate the pharmacological mechanisms of huperzine A (HA) as an alternative treatment for PD and AD.Molecular targets of HA and genes associated with AD and PD were identified from public databases. Gene Ontology analysis, metabolic pathway analysis, and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network construction were performed to identify shared molecular targets. Molecular docking was performed to assess HA affinity for hub proteins and to compare it with that of drugs used to treat AD and PD.The results suggested that HA interacts with 77 molecular targets common to both diseases. Enrichment analysis revealed that proteins from these targets were involved in biological functions, such as serotonin and amine binding. Hub proteins (SRC, TP53, AKT1, and CASP3) were identified from the PPI network. Furthermore, molecular docking simulations showed favorable binding of HA to the hub proteins and adequate binding to the targets of standard drugs (MAOB and ACHE). On the other hand, molecular dynamics analyses were performed to compare the binding characteristics of HA with those of the control targets.HA may modulate SRC, CASP3, and AKT1, suggesting a pleiotropic mechanism underlying the association between AD and PD. These computational findings provide a rational basis for experimental validation by modulating signaling pathways implicated in inflammatory processes and inhibiting enzymes involved in neurotransmitter degradation.This study contributes to the understanding of the neuroprotective activity of HA in AD and PD. However, further in vitro and in vivo investigations are required to confirm the dual therapeutic potential of HA in the treatment of AD and PD.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
The ovarian cancer immunoreactive antigen domain-containing protein 1 (OCIAD1) is a mitochondrial protein implicated in mitochondrial morphology, energy metabolism, and differentiation. Although understudied, recent studies position it as a critical player in carcinogenesis and neurodegenerative disorders, making it a potentially druggable node in cellular signaling networks. However, the phosphoregulatory networks and the upstream kinases governing OCIAD1 remain unknown.A large-scale literature mining and analysis of 177 phosphoproteomic datasets with differential expression of OCIAD1 was carried out to map its phosphoregulatory network. The predominant phosphosites were determined based on localization probability, detection frequency, and differential regulation. Multipronged computational approaches were employed to gather novel candidate kinases that may target OCIAD1 phosphosites. Co-differential phosphorylation analysis was conducted with other proteins, including interactors and candidate upstream kinases, to infer functional and regulatory associations.The sites S108 and S123 emerged as predominant, together accounting for 70% of OCIAD1 phosphorylation. Co-differential phosphorylation analysis revealed associations with proteins involved in the cell cycle, DNA repair, autophagy, mitophagy, endocytosis, and apoptosis. Novel candidate kinases for OCIAD1 phosphosites were identified; notably, SRMS and YES1 emerged as potential upstream regulators of Y199. Furthermore, the phosphosites in the candidate kinases of sites, including PLK1 (T210), CDK13 (S383, S397), PRKD2 (S200), CIT (S1343), and RPS6KA3 (T577), showed strong positive co-differential regulation with OCIAD1 predominant sites, supporting their potential involvement as upstream kinases.This study presents the first systematic map of the OCIAD1 phosphoregulatory network and provides candidate upstream kinases that may contribute to its phosphorylation, which warrant further experimental validation. The strong co-differential regulation of proteins involved in autophagy, mitophagy, endocytosis, and neurodegenerative pathways, as well as of kinases that orchestrate these processes, suggests that OCIAD1 phosphoregulatory network maybe involved in mitochondrial quality control and mitochondria-associated neurodegeneration, establishing a foundation for therapeutic investigations targeting OCIAD1 signaling.Copyright © 2026 Fahma, Subair, Lubaba, Gopalakrishnan, Shivamurthy and Raju.
Estrogen deficiency-induced osteoporosis is largely driven by excessive osteoclast formation and bone resorption, but the direct pharmacological targets of flavonoid derivatives in osteoclast differentiation remain unclear. Here, we investigated the anti-osteoclastogenic activity and molecular mechanism of 2'-O-Galloylhyperin (2'-O-GH), a structurally defined flavonoid derivative. The effects of 2'-O-GH on RANKL-induced osteoclastogenesis were evaluated in bone marrow-derived macrophages and RAW264.7 cells using TRAP staining, qPCR, western blotting, F-actin staining, immunofluorescence, and bone resorption assays. Target identification was performed using a biotinylated 2'-O-GH probe coupled with pull-down and LC-MS/MS analysis, followed by molecular docking and microscale thermophoresis. In vivo efficacy was assessed in an ovariectomy-induced osteoporosis mouse model. 2'-O-GH inhibited RANKL-induced formation of TRAP-positive multinucleated osteoclasts without evident cytotoxicity at effective concentrations. It downregulated osteoclast-related markers, including NFATc1, c-FOS, SRC, ACP5, ATP6V0D2, and CTSK, and impaired F-actin ring formation and bone resorption. Mechanistically, 2'-O-GH restrained RANKL-induced NF-κB p65 nuclear translocation. Chemical proteomics identified MAP3K11/MLK3 as a candidate target, and molecular docking and microscale thermophoresis supported its direct interaction with 2'-O-GH. 2'-O-GH further suppressed RANKL-induced phosphorylation of MLK3 and IKKα/β, whereas MLK3 overexpression partially rescued NF-κB activation and osteoclast differentiation. In ovariectomized mice, 2'-O-GH attenuated bone loss without obvious effects on body or uterine weight. These findings identify MLK3 as a pharmacological target of 2'-O-GH and suggest that 2'-O-GH suppresses osteoclastogenesis through the MLK3/IKK/NF-κB axis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Myocardial fibrosis (MF) is a pathological process often triggered by chronic inflammation and pressure overload. This study aimed to investigate the therapeutic potential of ranitidine, a histamine H2 receptor antagonist, on MF and explore its underlying mechanisms, focusing on the FAK/Src pathway and inflammatory responses.A mouse model of MF was established by transverse aortic constriction (TAC). Cardiac function was assessed by echocardiography. Histopathological changes, collagen deposition, mast cell infiltration, and the expression of histamine and its H2 receptor were examined. In vitro, NIH/3T3 fibroblasts were stimulated with TGF-β1 to induce fibrotic activation. The effects of ranitidine on collagen synthesis, the expression of fibrotic markers (α-SMA, Collagen I/III), and the phosphorylation of FAK/Src were evaluated.Ranitidine treatment significantly improved TAC-induced cardiac dysfunction and attenuated myocardial fibrosis, as evidenced by reduced collagen deposition. It also markedly decreased mast cell infiltration and the expression of histamine and H2 receptor in cardiac tissues. In TGF-β1-stimulated fibroblasts, ranitidine dose-dependently reduced collagen synthesis, downregulated α-SMA, Collagen I, and Collagen III expression, and suppressed the activation of the FAK/Src pathway.Our findings demonstrate that ranitidine ameliorates pressure overload-induced myocardial fibrosis, likely in association with attenuation of histamine/H2 receptor-related inflammatory responses and reduced FAK/Src activation. This study suggests the repurposing potential of ranitidine for treating MF.Copyright © 2026 Yang, Zhang, Zhao, He, Zheng, Chen, Hu, Long and Chen.
Fragile X syndrome (FXS), the most common inherited form of intellectual disability and the leading monogenic cause of autism, results from the loss of the fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP). Dysregulated translation of FMRP target mRNAs is believed to underlie the aberrant synaptic plasticity observed in FXS. Identification of these targets is critical for elucidating disease mechanisms and developing therapeutic strategies.We confirmed the interaction between FMRP and FYN mRNA by RNA immunoprecipitation in HEK293 and SH-SY5Y cells and assessed FYN translational regulation via polyribosome profiling in FXS and control lymphoblastoid cells. The role of FYN in ERK hyperactivation was examined in FXS lymphoblastoid cells, FMR1-knockdown SH-SY5Y cells, and dfmr1 mutant flies. Additionally, we tested whether reducing or inhibiting Src64B, a Drosophila Src family kinase with homology to human FYN, could rescue neural and behavioral defects in dfmr1 mutants.FMRP bound to FYN mRNA and suppressed its translation without affecting mRNA stability. Phosphorylated ERK1/2 levels were markedly elevated in FXS lymphoblastoid cells, and this hyperactivation was largely reversed by either the Src family kinase inhibitor PP2 or siRNA-mediated FYN knockdown, supporting an important role for FYN in ERK1/2 dysregulation. Similar changes were observed in FMR1-knockdown SH-SY5Y cells, with increased FYN expression and ERK1/2 phosphorylation, and PP2 treatment attenuated the abnormal ERK1/2 phosphorylation. Furthermore, genetic or pharmacological suppression of Src64B restored ERK signaling and rescued mushroom body defects and memory deficits in dfmr1 mutants.This study identifies FYN as a novel translational target of FMRP and suggests that its upregulation may contribute to hyperactivation of ERK1/2 signaling in FXS.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Tissue regeneration after injury is crucial for restoring epithelial structure and function. Upon damage, a regenerative microenvironment forms that provides signalling cues that stimulate stem cell proliferation to replace lost cells. While this process is well understood, how stem cells themselves sense damage, translate this input into their proliferation and shape the regenerative microenvironment remains unclear. Here we show that Draper-Src-Shark signalling in Drosophila intestinal stem cells (ISCs) recognises tissue damage by sensing externalised phosphatidylserine on dying midgut epithelial cells and is required for STAT activation in ISCs to promote their proliferation. Unlike its role in phagocytosis, Draper in ISCs does not promote the clearance of these apoptotic enterocytes but rather facilitates ISC proliferation in the presence of damaged enterocytes. Moreover, Draper-Src-Shark signalling in progenitors regulates STAT transcriptional activity in the adjacent visceral muscle, indicating that progenitors can shape the regenerative microenvironment beyond tissue boundaries. As Src and STAT are also activated in the mammalian intestinal epithelium after damage and tumour formation, these findings may help develop therapies for tissue regeneration, inflammatory diseases and cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42556071 is a review article
Background and objectives Timely transport of donor organs is a critical determinant of successful transplantation because organ viability is limited by cold ischaemic time (CIT). Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), commonly referred to as drones, have recently emerged as promising tools for rapid medical logistics. The present study describes the design, engineering validation, and field evaluation of a drone-compatible organ transport container capable of maintaining cold-chain conditions during aerial transport. Methods A multidisciplinary engineering framework integrating biomedical engineering, materials science and transplant logistics consultation was used to design a lightweight crash-resistant container. The system incorporates carbon fibre reinforced polymer (CFRP) with aluminium reinforcement for structural stability, phase change materials (PCMs) for passive thermal regulation, and embedded sensors for monitoring temperature and mechanical shocks. Structural simulations, laboratory drop tests, thermal stability experiments, and pilot drone flight trials were conducted to evaluate mechanical resilience and preservation performance. Results Finite element simulations demonstrated that the composite container could withstand anticipated operational loads with adequate safety margins. Drop tests from heights up to 18.3 m resulted in minimal structural deformation while the internal payload chamber remained protected. Thermal experiments confirmed that PCM-based cooling maintained preservation temperatures within 0-4 °C for more than 18 h. Drone flight trials using a hexacopter UAV confirmed stable payload handling and maintenance of cold-chain conditions during simulated transport. Interpretation and conclusions The prototype demonstrates proof-of-concept feasibility for drone-compatible organ transport. UAV-enabled logistics may complement existing organ transport systems by reducing delays associated with traffic congestion and coordination challenges. Further clinical validation and regulatory approvals are required before routine deployment.
Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) are key regulators of tumor progression within the gastric cancer microenvironment. Chloride Intracellular Channel-2 (CLIC-2), a member of the CLIC protein family, has been implicated in tumor biology. However, its role in CAFs remains unclear. In this study, we found that CLIC-2 expression was significantly reduced in gastric CAFs and that low CLIC-2 levels were associated with poor patient prognosis. Loss-of-function experiments demonstrated that CLIC-2 deficiency promoted CAF-like activation of non-cancer fibroblasts (NFs), whereas CLIC-2 overexpression attenuated the activated phenotype of CAFs. Conditioned medium from CLIC-2-knockdown fibroblasts enhanced the viability, migratory, and invasion of gastric cancer cells, while conditioned medium from CLIC-2-overexpressing CAFs suppressed these malignant phenotypes. In vivo, co-injection of MKN-45 cells with CLIC-2-deficient fibroblasts promoted tumor growth and liver metastasis, whereas CLIC-2 overexpression in CAFs exerted tumor-suppressive effects. Proteomic analysis of CAF-derived exosomes identified Solute Carrier Family 35 Member B2 (SLC35B2) as a candidate downstream component associated with CLIC-2-regulated exosomal alterations. Exosomes derived from CLIC-2-overexpressing CAFs exhibited reduced SLC35B2 levels and inhibited malignant behaviors in gastric cancer cells. Mechanistically, SLC35B2 promoted YAP1 activation, as evidenced by enhanced nuclear accumulation of YAP1 and upregulation of its target genes CYR61 and CTGF. YAP1 silencing attenuated SLC35B2-induced malignant phenotypes, while SLC35B2 overexpression partially reversed the tumor-suppressive effects mediated by CLIC-2-overexpressing CAF-derived exosomes. Collectively, these findings suggest that CLIC-2 suppresses CAF-driven gastric cancer progression, at least partly through SLC35B2-associated regulation of YAP1 signaling, highlighting a potential stromal regulatory mechanism in gastric cancer.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
To investigate the effects and mechanisms of Shi Pi Shu Gan formula (SPSGF) on sequelae of pelvic inflammatory disease (SPID) in rats with liver stagnation and spleen deficiency.A SPID rat model was established using mixed bacterial infection, mechanical injury, and compound stress (restraint, fatigue, diet disorder). Rats were divided into control, model, SPSGF-low (9.9 g/kg), SPSGF-high (36.9 g/kg), positive control, mitophagy inhibitor (Mdivi-1), SPSGF, and SPSGF+Mdivi-1 groups (n=6 each) for a 2-week treatment. Behavior, uterine histopathology (HE, TUNEL, immunohistochemistry), inflammatory cytokines (ELISA), mitophagy (TEM), and cGAS, STING, p-CREB, and p-YAP1 proteins (Western blot) were assessed.SPSGF treatment reduced inflammatory lesions and apoptosis in uterine tissue, decreased mtDNA levels and cGAS/STING expression, and increased p-CREB and p-YAP1 expression compared with the model group.This study's findings illuminate a novel link between mitochondrial quality control and tissue repair in SPID. Notwithstanding its limitations, including the model's translational capacity and the formula's complexity, this work lays the groundwork for developing SPSGF as a promising multi-targeted therapeutic strategy, aligning with TCM principles for managing chronic inflammatory sequelae.SPSGF may inhibit the inflammatory response in SPID rats by activating mitophagy to inhibit excessive activation of the cGAS/STING pathway and by activating the downstream PKACREB- Yap1 signaling pathway by interfering with the mtDNA-cGAS-STING network, thereby alleviating the symptoms of SPID.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Yes-associated protein 1 (YAP1) dysregulation is frequently observed in various human cancers. This study aimed to identify microRNAs (miRNAs) capable of suppressing YAP1 expression and to elucidate their functional roles in tumor progression.We screened five candidate miRNAs using a luciferase reporter assay containing the YAP1 3' untranslated region (3' UTR). Functional validation was performed using gain- and loss-of-function experiments in HCT116 and A549 cell lines. The in vivo effects of miR-195 were evaluated using a xenograft model.Among the tested miRNAs, miR-195 demonstrated the most potent suppression of YAP1 3' UTR activity. This interaction was direct and specific, as a mutation in the YAP1 3' UTR seed sequence abolished miR-195-mediated repression. Consequently, miR-195 overexpression significantly reduced endogenous YAP1 protein levels and suppressed the expression of its downstream target, CTGF. Functionally, miR-195 overexpression inhibited cell viability and reduced colony formation by approximately 40% in HCT116 cells, while miR-195 knockdown promoted proliferation. Rescue experiments confirmed that the anti-proliferative effects of miR-195 were dependent on YAP1 suppression. In vivo, stable overexpression of miR-195 significantly attenuated tumor growth in xenograft models. Furthermore, analysis of clinical data revealed that downregulation of miR-195 is prevalent in multiple tumor types and correlates with poor patient survival.Our findings establish miR-195 as a critical tumor suppressor that directly targets YAP1, highlighting its potential as a therapeutic target in cancer treatment.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Song, Tang, He and Cai.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is heterogeneous, and hepatocyte plasticity is linked to poorer patient outcomes. A subset of human HCC harboring Tuberous Sclerosis Complex 1 (TSC1) mutations exhibits more aggressive behavior. TFEB is a master regulator of lysosomal biogenesis and cell fate. We analyzed human normal and HCC tissue arrays for TFEB and CK19 expression, as well as bulk and single-cell RNA-seq datasets from mouse and human HCC, to define TFEB-associated transcriptional programs. We performed biochemical, histological, metabolomic, and transcriptomic analyses in liver-specific Tsc1 knockout (L-Tsc1 KO) and L-Tsc1,Tfeb double KO (DKO) mice. Loss of hepatic Tsc1 led to increased phosphorylation of S6 and 4EBP1, with paradoxical increases in TFEB nuclear translocation and activation. L-Tsc1 KO mice showed increased hepatocyte plasticity, decreased HFN4α, increased YAP1 activation, and spontaneous HCC with increased SOX9 and CK19-positive biliary epithelial cell (BEC)-like cells at 8-12 months. Deletion of Tfeb dampened hepatic metabolic reprogramming and hepatocyte fate changes and inhibited tumor progression in L-Tsc1 KO mice. Increased TFEB activity was associated with increased YAP and SOX9 gene expression and high-grade malignant HCC in humans. These findings indicate that loss of hepatic TSC1 leads to non-canonical TFEB activation, promoting hepatocyte plasticity and tumor heterogeneity associated with high-grade malignancy in both mouse and human HCC. .
Slc26a9 is a member of the Slc26a family that is highly expressed in the stomach and is a key regulator for maintaining gastric mucosal homeostasis. Slc26a9 deletion in mice impairs the gastric mucosal barrier. However, the role of Slc26a9 in PHG has never been investigated.Slc26a9 expression was analyzed in human PHG and control gastric tissues. A PVL-induced PHG model was established in Slc26a9fl/fl and parietal cell-specific Slc26a9 knockout mice to evaluate mucosal injury, ER stress, and apoptosis. Adenoviral overexpression in vivo and gene silencing in GES-1 cells were used to explore the underlying mechanisms.In this study, the Human PHG samples showed both significantly reduced Slc26a9 mRNA and protein expression when compared to healthy controls. Parietal cell-specific Slc26a9 gene deletion aggravates gastric mucosal injury, gastric mucosal epithelial apoptosis, mitochondria apoptotic, and ER stress in PHG. Restoration of Slc26a9 expression in the gastric mucosa of mice using an adenovirus overexpressing Slc26a9 reversed the aggravated endoplasmic reticulum stress, mitochondrial apoptosis, epithelial apoptosis, and gastric mucosal injury caused by Slc26a9 deficiency. In addition, downregulation of Slc26a9 expression induced apoptosis in GES-1 cells by activating the endoplasmic reticulum stress-mitochondrial apoptosis pathway. Mechanistically, Slc26a9 may inhibit endoplasmic reticulum stress by interacting with valosin-containing protein (VCP).Slc26a9 protects the mucosal defense barrier against PHG by attenuating ER stress-mediated mitochondria-dependent apoptotic signaling. Slc26a9 may be a novel therapeutic target for PHG.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of solvents and storage time on the mechanical properties of 3D-printed resin composites for definitive crowns.Three 3D-printed definitive crown resin composites: Permanent Crown (Formlab; PCR), VarseoSmile Crown plus (BEGO; VCP) and Crowntec (Saremco print; CT) and one milled resin composites: Grandio Blocs/ Disc (VOCO; Gr) were tested. A three-point bending test was used to measure flexural strength (FS) and flexural modulus (Ef) using a universal testing machine (Zwick/Roell Z020) (n = 10). Martens hardness (HM) and indentation modulus (EIT) were measured using a Martens hardness instrument (Zwick/Roell Z2.5) (n = 18). Properties were evaluated on polished specimens 24 h after fabrication at room temperature in dry condition and then after 1 and 7 days of storage in either distilled water (DW D1/D7) or 75% ethanol/water (75% E/W D1/D7) at 37 °C. Data were analysed using two-way ANOVA and one-way repeated measure ANOVA (α = 0.05).At dry condition, mechanical properties for PCR, VCP, CT and Gr were; for FS 135.6, 120.3, 132.3 and 231.0 MPa, respectively; for Ef 4318, 3963, 4109 and 13500 MPa, respectively; for HM 218.6, 213.6, 219.7 and 858.5 N/mm2, respectively; and for EIT 6.0, 5.7, 5.8 and 22.7 kN/mm², respectively. Findings revealed a differential response to solvent exposure among the tested materials. For 75% E/W D7, there was a significant reduction (≈ 20%) in the FS of all materials (p < 0.001). Storage time in 75% E/W significantly affected the HM of all tested materials: CT (p = 0.002), VCP (p = 0.026), PCR, and Gr (p < 0.001). At 75% E/W D7, HM for PCR, VCP, CT and Gr was 157.1, 178.4, 183.6 and 699.3 N/mm2, respectively; Ef and EIT had a lower reduction.This study demonstrated that the mechanical properties of both 3D-printed and milled resin composites for definitive crowns are adversely affected by solvent exposure, particularly in 75% ethanol/water. After seven days of immersion in 75% E/W, all tested materials showed a substantial reduction in flexural strength and Martens hardness. However, the changes in flexural modulus and indentation modulus were less pronounced.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42552030
Methimazole (MZL) is a widely prescribed antithyroid medication that has additionally been associated with unintended toxic effects involving organs outside its primary therapeutic site. The current work was conducted to investigate the progressive cardiac pathological alterations elicited by escalating dose levels of MZL. A total of 36 healthy (adult male albino rats) of comparable age and body weight were selected for the study after veterinary examination confirmed their suitability for experimental use. Selected animals were randomly distributed among the four experimental groups with each group having nine rats. Group I was designated as control group. Group II, III and IV were gavaged with MZL at a dose level of 60, 100 and 250 mg/kg/day body weight, respectively, continuously for 28 days. MZL treatment significantly and dose-dependently altered the expressions of MST1, LATS1, YAP1 and TEAD1. The genes for calcium-handling proteins were highly affected with a reduction in SERCA2a and RyR2 and an increase in PLN and NCX1 throughout the dose-escalation regimen of MZL. MZL intoxication significantly augmented ROS and MDA levels whereas suppressed SOD, CAT, GPx, GST, GSR, HO-1 and GSH. Echocardiographic evaluation showed cardiac remodeling, ventricular dilation, myocardial hypertrophy, and poor cardiac performance. There were significantly high level of cardiac biomarkers such as CK-MB, troponin-I, CPK, LDH, BNP, troponin-T, and NT-proBNP, signifying myocardial injury and ventricular dysfunction. Besides, MZL significantly worsened cardiac inflammation by elevating the expression of TNF-α, NF-κB, IL-6, IL-1β, and COX-2 and cardiac apoptosis by increasing caspase-3, Bax, & caspase-9, but diminishing Bcl-2. Histopathological examination showed myocardial degeneration, necrosis, edema, and inflammatory infiltration and structural disorganization in direct proportion to the administered dose. These findings showed severe myocardial toxicity following MZL intoxication throughout the investigated dose range thereby demonstrating its cardiotoxic manifestations.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42551108
Under inflammatory conditions, the ubiquitin-like modifier FAT10 serves as a tag for protein degradation by the 26S proteasome. FAT10 is degraded along with its substrates and this process is independent of the segregase VCP/p97, which, in the regular ubiquitin pathway of degradation, is required if a substrate lacks a disordered initiation region. FAT10 itself is loosely folded and its tendency to aggregate has complicated investigations of its structure, interaction, and function. Recently, hydrogen-deuterium exchange in combination with mass spectrometry has suggested that, in preparation of degradation by the proteasome, the adapter protein NUB1 traps FAT10 in a mostly unfolded state by capturing a β-strand. β-strand capture was subsequently confirmed by magic-angle spinning (MAS) NMR spectroscopy of a stabilized variant of the N-domain of FAT10 in complex with NUB1L, the longer splice variant of NUB1. MAS NMR, in addition, revealed that the N-domain of FAT10 and NUB1L form a fuzzy complex and that the N-terminus of FAT10 is positioned for initiation of degradation by specific non-covalent interaction with NUB1L. Here, we report the investigation of the wild-type N-domain of FAT10 by MAS NMR. Co-sedimentation with NUB1L yields high-quality spectra, which enable sequential assignment of resonances. Based on MAS NMR data, the complexes of the wild-type and stabilized N-domain of FAT10 with NUB1L appear identical. The N-terminal residue of FAT10 again shows up prominently in the spectra, even though it is this time an Ala, not a Gly. Our experiences suggest that co-sedimentation in combination with MAS NMR is generally helpful in the exploration of conditional folds of intrinsically disordered proteins.© 2026. The Author(s).
Emodin exhibits various pharmacological activities, including hepatoprotective effects. However, its clinical application is limited by poor absorption and low oral bioavailability. This study aimed to optimize emodin through benzoylation and to assess the hepatoprotective potential of the resulting derivatives integrating bioinformatics and in vitro methods.We conducted network pharmacology, molecular docking and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations to predict potential targets and interactions of benzoylated emodin derivatives. The derivatives were synthesized and evaluated for cytotoxicity using the MTT assay. The hepatoprotective effects were assessed in vitro using a paracetamol-induced HepG2 cell injury model.Network pharmacology analysis and gene expression profiling identified four major targets-HSP90AA1, MAPK14, RELA, and PRKACA-as key liver disease-related targets of emodin and its derivatives. Molecular docking study revealed that the benzoylated emodin derivatives exhibited generally lower (more negative) binding energies compared to emodin across all four targets. MD simulations confirmed that the complex RELA with these derivatives is more stable than with emodin. These findings were consistent with in vitro assays, emodin and its derivatives increased cell viability or protected the cells up to 60-70%.This study provides a comprehensive evaluation of benzoylated emodin derivatives as potential hepatoprotective agents. The findings suggest that these derivatives exhibit binding affinity toward important targets related to cirrhosis, reduced toxicity to cells, and enhanced the efficacy in protecting the liver in vitro liver injury model.© the Author(s).
Myocardial ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury constitutes a major clinical challenge in ischemic heart disease, and ferroptosis has been recognized as a core driver of cardiomyocyte death during reperfusion. However, the upstream regulatory network governing myocardial ferroptosis remains incompletely defined. The mitogen-activated protein kinase 14 (p38α, MAPK14) is a stress-activated kinase critically involved in cardiac pathophysiology, yet its role in I/R-induced ferroptosis remains unclear. Here, we report that p38α deficiency attenuates ferroptosis and protects against myocardial I/R injury by stabilizing c-Myc. Phosphorylated p38α (p-p38α) was significantly elevated in mouse hearts after I/R and in cardiomyocytes following oxygen-glucose deprivation/reperfusion (OGD/R). Cardiomyocyte-specific p38α knockout markedly reduced ferroptosis, myocardial infarct size, and cardiac dysfunction. Mechanistically, p-p38α interacts with c-Myc under I/R stress via key residues Arg291, Arg300, and Lys304 of c-Myc and promotes the recruitment of the E3 ubiquitin ligase STUB1, thereby enhancing ubiquitination at Lys51 (K51) of c-Myc and its proteasomal degradation. Loss of p38α stabilizes c-Myc protein and reverses this process. Furthermore, c-Myc acts as a transcriptional repressor of NCOA4, a core mediator of ferroptosis. I/R-induced downregulation of c-Myc relieves NCOA4 suppression, triggering iron overload, lipid peroxidation, and ferroptosis. Overexpression of c-Myc or inhibition of STUB1 or NCOA4 abolished the pro-ferroptotic effect of I/R. Pretreatment with the p38α inhibitor VX-745 recapitulated the cardioprotective effects by restoring the p38α/c-Myc/NCOA4 axis in vivo. Collectively, our findings identify the p38α/c-Myc/NCOA4 signaling axis as a regulatory cascade governing myocardial I/R-induced ferroptosis. These findings nominate the p38α/c-Myc/NCOA4 axis as a potential therapeutic target in myocardial I/R injury.© 2026. The Author(s).
The elevated mortality associated with ovarian cancer arises from delayed detection, recurrent disease, and the rapid emergence of chemoresistance. This study assesses the anticancer efficacy of two synthetic curcumin analogues, B-143 and B-155, in comparison to natural curcumin, employing SKOV3 ovarian cancer cells as the experimental model.The aim of this study was to determine whether structural alterations to the analogues enhanced their functional performance.Through assays assessing cytotoxicity, cell-cycle distribution, apoptosis, and migration, the findings revealed that B-155 exhibited significantly greater cytotoxicity compared to curcumin and B-143, which was associated with G2/M cell-cycle arrest and increased apoptosis. Furthermore, both B-155 and curcumin effectively suppressed SKOV3 cell migration, whereas B-143 displayed minimal effects. Network pharmacology analyses predicted that B-143 and B-155 interact with overlapping yet distinct angiogenesis- and metastasis-associated signaling networks, suggesting potential associations with multiple signaling pathways relevant to ovarian cancer. Moreover, RT-qPCR reveals curcumin consistently downregulated the expression of genes linked to epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and cellular stress, whereas B-143 and B-155 displayed only partial adaptive responses in several angiogenesis and metastasis transcription markers. To further explore the molecular basis of B-155 activity, molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations were performed using MAPK14 (p38α MAPK) as a candidate target. Computational analyses demonstrated favorable binding of B-155 within the MAPK14 ATP-binding pocket and stable protein-ligand complex formation throughout a 100 ns simulation.B-155 demonstrated more significant anticancer activity than B-143, suggesting superior structural change-enhanced effectiveness. This research highlights the influence of structural modifications on curcumin's biological activity, supports B-155 as a promising curcumin analogue for further investigation with anti-proliferative and migration suppressive properties, and emphasizes the need to incorporate both phenotypic and network-level assessments together with structural interaction analyses in curcumin-based drug development for ovarian cancer.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Diabetic nephropathy is a leading cause of end-stage renal disease, with podocyte loss being a critical event in its progression. However, the dominant molecular mechanism driving podocyte loss remains elusive, hindering targeted therapy. We aimed to identify the key pathways of podocyte failure in human diabetic nephropathy and investigate metformin's therapeutic potential.We employed an integrative multi-omics approach, including single-nucleus RNA-seq (snRNA-seq) of 156,043 human kidney nuclei from individuals with diabetic nephropathy and healthy control individuals, db/db mouse models of diabetic nephropathy, spatial metabolomics, in vitro podocyte cultures, and targeted urinary metabolomics in individuals with diabetic nephropathy and healthy control individuals.snRNA-seq identified ferroptosis and fatty acid metabolic dysregulation as the most enriched pathways within podocytes, mechanistically linked to the MAPK14-solute carrier family 7 member 11 (SLC7A11)-glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) axis. In murine diabetic nephropathy models and in vitro, metformin directly inhibited this MAPK14-SLC7A11-GPX4 axis, suppressed podocyte ferroptosis (including restoration of GPX4 and SLC7A11 expression and reduction of p-p38 and lipid peroxidation) and restored compartment-specific renal lipid accumulation as shown by spatial metabolomics. Clinically, we identified and validated a urinary fatty acid signature, with palmitoylcarnitine as a key biomarker (AUC 0.974, calculated from receiver operating characteristic curves), correlating with disease indices including blood glucose, eGFR, serum creatinine and blood urea nitrogen.Our study reveals podocyte ferroptosis to be a central pathogenic event in human diabetic nephropathy, repositioning metformin as a direct ferroptosis inhibitor that preserves podocyte integrity via the MAPK14-SLC7A11-GPX4 axis. Furthermore, we provide a high-performance urinary biomarker, offering a direct translational link toward targeted anti-ferroptosis therapies and non-invasive diagnostics for diabetic nephropathy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a heterogeneous autoimmune disease involving inflammatory macrophage polarization and hepatic acute-phase responses. Serum amyloid A3 (SAA3) is elevated in lupus-prone mice and may participate in the immune link between liver inflammation and macrophage responses. Jieduquyuziyin Prescription (JP) is a traditional formula used clinically for SLE, but its chemical basis and SAA3-related immunomodulatory mechanisms remain incompletely defined.This study investigated the effects of JP on SLE-related inflammatory phenotypes, hepatocyte SAA3 expression, and macrophage MAPK14/p38-related M1 polarization responses, and examined the interaction between representative JP constituents and MAPK14.MRL/Lpr mice were used to evaluate the in vivo effects of JP. LC-MS and HPLC were used for chemical characterization. Network pharmacology, primary splenic macrophages, primary hepatocytes, and macrophage-naive CD4⁺ T cell co-culture systems were used to characterize JP-associated immune responses. Western blotting, flow cytometry, ELISA, and immunofluorescence were performed to assess p38 phosphorylation, macrophage polarization, cytokines, and SAA3. Molecular docking, SPR, molecular dynamics simulations, and ADP-Glo™ kinase assay were used to evaluate MAPK14 binding and kinase activity modulation by representative constituents.JP treatment improved survival and renal-related indices in MRL/Lpr mice, accompanied by lower serum SAA3 levels, reduced splenic F4/80⁺ CD86⁺ macrophages, and decreased F4/80/iNOS signals. JP-medicated serum reduced SAA3-induced p38 phosphorylation, iNOS expression, and IL-6 and IL-1β release, while increasing Arg-1 expression and F4/80⁺ CD206⁺ cells. JP-medicated serum also reduced IL-6-induced SAA3 expression in hepatocytes. In co-culture, systems containing SAA3-treated macrophages showed increased CD4⁺ IL-17A⁺ cells and IL-17 levels, whereas JP treatment reduced these readouts. Hesperidin, glycyrrhizic acid, and paeoniflorin were detected in JP decoction and JP-medicated serum and generated measurable binding responses to MAPK14. The three-compound mixture and individual constituents reduced recombinant MAPK14 kinase activity, with stronger activity observed for the mixture.JP treatment was associated with reduced hepatocyte SAA3 expression, attenuated macrophage MAPK14/p38-related M1 inflammatory responses, and decreased Th17-associated inflammatory indices. MAPK14 may serve as a mechanistically relevant molecular node engaged by representative JP constituents, providing experimental support for JP-mediated regulation of SLE-related inflammatory networks.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Alcohol-associated liver disease (ALD) constitutes an acute and life-threatening condition, which may lead to the failure of multiple organs. Its characteristics are complex pathophysiological processes and high mortality rate. 6-shogaol, a bioactive ginger-derived compound, exhibits immunomodulatory, anti-inflammatory, and anticancer activities with favorable in vivo safety. Nonetheless, its exact mechanism underlying the therapeutic effect on ALD has not been fully elucidated.The therapeutic effects and mechanistic action of 6-shogaol against ALD were investigated through network pharmacology and experimental validation.Network pharmacology analysis was employed to identify the candidate bioactive monomer from ginger with potential therapeutic effects against ALD. An in vitro ALD model was established by treating AML-12 cells with EtOH, followed by bioactivity screening. Bioactive compounds' protective effects against ALD were systematically evaluated in cell-based assays. To investigate the underlying mechanisms, transcriptomic analysis was performed alongside molecular biology techniques, including Western blotting, immunofluorescence, and RT-qPCR.10 compounds were identified from ginger through network pharmacology, with 6-shogaol exhibiting the most favorable oral bioavailability (OB) and drug-likeness (DL) profiles. 6-shogaol exerted hepatoprotective effects by attenuating inflammation and regulating lipid metabolism. Furthermore, network pharmacology and transcriptomic analysis revealed that MAPK14 may serve as a potential target for 6-shogaol in the alleviation of ALD. Subsequently, validation in ALD mice and EtOH-induced AML-12 cells suggested that 6-shogaol may suppress MAPK14, thereby attenuating endoplasmic reticulum stress (ERS) and ultimately ameliorating ALD.6-shogaol is a potential bioactive component in ginger for ALD treatment by modulating MAPK14. It exerts therapeutic effects by regulating ERS, inflammation responses, and lipid metabolism processes, positioning it as a promising candidate for ALD management.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Resistance to FLT3 inhibitors remains a major limitation in the treatment of FLT3-mutated acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Canonically, ERK is considered the predominant MAPK effector downstream of FLT3 signaling. However, pharmacologic inhibition of MEK/ERK provides limited clinical benefit once resistance develops, suggesting that alternative signaling dependencies may emerge under therapeutic pressure. Using an unbiased kinome-wide CRISPR-Cas9 screen in gilteritinib-resistant AML cells, we identified MAPK14 (encoding p38α), rather than MAPK3/MAPK1 (encoding ERK1/2), as a prominent context-dependent dependency associated with the resistant state. Genetic impairment or pharmacologic inhibition of p38 enhanced gilteritinib sensitivity and synergized with FLT3 inhibition to suppress leukemic growth. Mechanistically, resistant cells exhibited adaptor-mediated rewiring of FLT3 signaling, in which p46-SHC1 supported an FLT3-associated MKK3/6-p38 signaling module despite FLT3 inhibition, thereby sustaining downstream programs including MYC expression. Consistent with its role as a stress-responsive kinase, p38 supports leukemic cell survival under prolonged drug exposure. Together, these findings define a non-canonical MAPK signaling state associated with FLT3 inhibitor resistance, provide a mechanistic explanation for the limited efficacy of MEK/ERK-directed therapies in the resistant setting, and offer a rationale for combination strategies targeting stress-adaptive pathways to improve the durability of FLT3-directed therapy in AML.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
YTH domain-containing protein 1 (YTHDC1) is a nuclear m6A reader with well-known roles in mRNA splicing, nuclear mRNA export, and DNA damage response. Although over 44 phosphosites, including those within the YTH domain, are detected in phosphoproteomic datasets, the phosphoregulatory mechanism that governs YTHDC1 function remains unknown.To delineate the phosphoregulatory landscape of YTHDC1, we conducted an integrative analysis of large-scale human phosphoproteomic datasets. The phosphosites were ranked according to their frequency of occurrence, and most recurrent sites were considered predominant. To explore their biological significance, we combined co-phosphorylation analysis with upstream kinase prediction and protein-interaction network mapping.Three phosphosites, S308 and S146 located in the intrinsically disordered regions and S424 in the YTH domain, were identified as predominantly perturbed across datasets. Functional enrichment analysis of phosphosites in other proteins (PsOPs) co-regulated with these YTHDC1 phosphosites revealed their potential association with mRNA processing and splicing. Considering that no kinases are validated for these sites, phosphomotif-based analysis identified upstream kinases such as MAPK14, CDK7, AKT1, and PAK1. Annotation of phosphosites in these kinases co-regulated with the predominant YTHDC1 phosphosites demonstrated their association with kinase activity, reiterating their potential role as upstream kinases. The PsOPs, including these kinases, as well as many validated binary interactors associated with splicing-related functions, were enriched in the YTHDC1 phosphoregulatory network. Notably, 30 of the co-regulated PsOPs were enriched in pathways that are linked to carcinogenesis, and 4 were in DNA repair inhibition, thereby corroborating their possible role in phosphorylation-dependent signaling associated with cancer.Considering that targeted molecular biology experiments to explore the role of multiple phosphosites are challenging, our approach provides a suitable framework to infer phospho-site centric regulatory networks. Current findings suggest a putative role of YTHDC1 and its predominant phosphosites in RNA splicing and highlight its regulatory potential in tumor-associated signaling networks.Copyright © 2026 Shaji, John, Subair, Thomas, Sambreena, Varghese, Gopalakrishnan, Gopalakrishnan, Krishna, Raju and Soman.
This study aimed to investigate the antiinfi ammatory effects and potential molecular mechanisms of star anise-cinnamon compound essential oil (SCEO) against multidrug-resistant Salmonella Thompson (MDR S. Thompson) infection in mice.An intestinal infection model was established in mice by oral gavage of MDR S. Thompson (1×109 CFU/mL) for two consecutive days. Experimental animals were randomly assigned to a blank group, a model group, a levofioxacin group (positive control), and SCEO low-, medium-, and high-dose groups (100, 200, and 400mg/kg, respectively).SCEO intervention significantly alleviated clinical symptoms in infected mice, restored pathological damage in the liver and ileum, and normalized the liver index. Gas chromatography-mass spectrom- etry (GC-MS) analysis identified trans-cinnamaldehyde and trans-anethole as the primary active components of SCEO. Network pharmacology and molecular docking analyses revealed strong binding affinities between these components and Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), RELA, and mitogen-activated protein kinase 14 (MAPK14) (Vina score < -5.0 kcal/mol). Further in vivo and in vitro experiments demonstrated that SCEO significantly downregulated the mRNA expression of key cytokines, including Tlr4, interleukin-6 (Il6), tumor necrosis factor (Tnf), and interleukin-17A (Il17a), and suppressed the overactivation of the TLR4/nuclear factor kappa-B (NFĸB)/MAPK signaling pathway. SCEO effectively alleviated Salmonella-induced infiammatory damage, a protective process potentially me- diated through the modulation of the TLR4/NFĸB/MAPK signaling axis. These findings provide a theoretical basis for the development of SCEO as a natural, plant-derived anti-infective agent.Copyright © 2026 Xu, Zhang, Lin, Luan, Shao, Chen, Liang, Huang, Zhang, Tao, Tang, Huang, Huang, Li and Chen.
Oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) has increasingly been associated with oral microbiota and chronic periodontal inflammation. While major periodontal pathogens have been extensively studied, the role of Capnocytophaga gingivalis (C. gingivalis) in oral carcinogenesis remains unclear. This study investigated the prevalence and quantified the presence of C. gingivalis in benign oral lesions, oral potentially malignant disorders (OPMDs), and OSCCs, as well as its association with carcinogenesis-related gene expression.Ninety patients with periodontitis were included: 30 with benign lesions, 30 with OPMDs, and 30 with OSCCs. C. gingivalis quantification was performed using qPCR, while relative expression of VEGF, Cyclin D1, PIK3CA, DUSP16, mTOR, and MAPK14 was analyzed by RT-qPCR.C. gingivalis was detected in 2 benign lesions, 11 OPMDs, and 18 OSCC samples (p < 0.001). Overall bacterial burden was significantly higher in OPMD and OSCC groups compared to benign lesions (p = 0.001). Expression of PIK3CA and MAPK14 was significantly increased in the OPMD and OSCC groups. In OSCC samples, C. gingivalis abundance positively correlated with VEGF and Cyclin D1 expression.C. gingivalis showed progressively increased prevalence and abundance across examined lesions and was associated with altered expression of genes involved in carcinogenesis, supporting its potential role in OSCC progression.
Mechanical forces such as tension and compression play a central role in the growth and morphogenesis of tissues. Cell-cell junctions and the actin cytoskeleton are key mediators of mechanical forces and influence the activity of signaling networks, including the Hippo pathway. Here, we show that the mechanosensitive protein Zyxin (Zyx) localizes predominantly to adherens junctions (AJs) and basal spot junctions (BSJs) of Drosophila epithelial tissues. At these subcellular locations, Zyx works in concert with Ajuba to limit Hpo signaling and promote Drosophila epithelial tissue growth. Zyx recruits both Ajuba and the central Hpo pathway kinase Warts (Wts) to AJs and BSJs, which likely limits Wts activity by segregating it from Hpo pathway activator proteins. We further show that Zyx's association with cell-cell junctions is promoted by cytoskeletal tension and that Zyx supports the transmission of actomyosin tension to AJs in growing epithelial tissues. These findings indicate the conservation of this function. Thus, we provide new insights into how Zyx couples mechanical cues to Hpo pathway-dependent tissue growth and highlight the importance of BSJs and their associated actomyosin network in epithelial tissue development.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42411771 is a review article
Acute liver failure (ALF) is characterised by massive hepatocyte death and compromised regenerative capacity, yet the metabolic-immune crosstalk underlying these pathological processes remains poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate that lactate acts as a pivotal signal that triggers neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) formation and release. Integrated RNA-seq and scRNA-seq analyses revealed profound glycolytic reprogramming in Kupffer cells (KCs) during ALF, leading to lactate accumulation within the hepatic microenvironment. Mechanistically, neutrophils import exogenous lactate into mitochondria via monocarboxylate transporter 1 (MCT1), which subsequently activates NETosis. Macrophage depletion or administration of an MCT1 inhibitor reduced NETs formation and ameliorated liver injury. Furthermore, we demonstrate that hepatocytes internalise NETs DNA, which is sensed by endosomal Toll-like receptor 9 (TLR9). Activation of the TLR9 signalling pathway suppresses the expression of Krüppel-like factor 15 (KLF15). This downregulation diminishes AJUBA and disrupts the KLF15-AJUBA interaction, thereby increasing the phosphorylation of YAP1 and impeding hepatocyte proliferation. Notably, KLF15 overexpression bypassed TLR9-mediated inhibitory signals and rescued the NETs-induced regenerative failure in vitro. In conclusion, our study elucidates a novel KCs-neutrophil-hepatocyte crosstalk wherein lactate-driven NETosis thwarts liver regeneration via the TLR9/KLF15/AJUBA axis, thereby identifying potential therapeutic targets for the clinical management of ALF.© 2026 The Author(s). Cell Proliferation published by Beijing Institute for Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common cardiac arrhythmia. Although familial AF frequently follows an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern, the genetic mechanisms remain incompletely defined. We sought to identify the causal variant within a previously established linkage region on chromosome 10q22-q24.Additional recombination events and fine mapping reduced the original linkage interval to 0.8 Mb. Targeted sequencing of the locus was performed in affected and unaffected family members. Patient-specific human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) were differentiated into atrial cardiomyocytes to assess gene expression and ion channel function.Refinement of the locus identified 3 genes (KCNMA1; DLG5; and POLR3A). A novel 15-kb tandem duplication within intron 1 of KCNMA1 segregated with disease in 6 families and was absent in controls and population databases. Patient-derived hiPSC atrial cardiomyocytes demonstrated reduced KCNMA1 and POLR3A mRNA and protein expression, accompanied by decreased paxilline-sensitive outward current.We identified a rare intronic structural variant in KCNMA1 associated with familial AF. The variant segregates with disease and is associated with reduced KCNMA1 expression and BK channel activity in patient-specific cardiomyocytes. These findings implicate the 10q22-q24 locus and highlight the potential contribution of noncoding structural variation to inherited atrial arrhythmia.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Acquired resistance to both targeted therapies and immunotherapies in cancer presents major clinical challenges, yet the molecular mechanisms underlying cross-resistance remain poorly understood. We hypothesized that loss of specific microRNAs (miRNAs) could potentiate melanoma resistance to both targeted drugs and CD8+ T cell-mediated cytotoxicity. Through genome-wide miRNA CRISPR knockout screening integrated with cellular models, longitudinal clinical samples, and in vivo experiments, we identified miR-18a as a pivotal upstream regulator of pleiotropic resistance in melanoma. We show that miR-18a deficiency drives resistance through two distinct mechanisms: derepressing AJUBA-regulated Hippo signaling during MAPK inhibition, and enhancing THBS1-CD47 interactions that impair the immunological synapse between tumor cells and CD8+ T cells. Furthermore, hnRNP A1 plays an essential role in modulating miR-18a expression, thereby mediating cross-resistance. These findings suggest that targeting non-coding RNA vulnerabilities may represent a promising therapeutic strategy to overcome complex resistance mechanisms and improve clinical outcomes in melanoma.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is the most common subtype of non-small cell lung cancer and remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are critical regulators of tumor progression; however, the biological role and molecular mechanisms of miR-589-3p in LUAD remain unclear. In this study, the expression levels of miR-589-3p and WWC2 were analyzed using The Cancer Genome Atlas lung adenocarcinoma (TCGA-LUAD) datasets via the UALCAN platform. Flow cytometric apoptosis analysis and functional assays including CCK-8, colony formation, AO/EB staining, and Transwell invasion assays were performed in LUAD cell lines. The interaction between miR-589-3p and WWC2 was validated using dual-luciferase reporter assays, Western blotting, and rescue experiments. miR-589-3p expression was significantly elevated in LUAD tissues compared with normal lung tissues (p < 0.05) and was positively associated with an advanced tumor stage and lymph node metastasis (p < 0.05). Inhibition of miR-589-3p significantly suppressed proliferation and colony formation (p < 0.05), reduced invasive capacity (p < 0.05), and markedly increased apoptosis (p < 0.01) in LUAD cells. Dual-luciferase reporter assays confirmed WWC2 as a direct target of miR-589-3p, with miR-589-3p mimics significantly reducing WWC2 wild-type reporter activity (p < 0.05). WWC2 expression was significantly downregulated in LUAD tissues (p < 0.05), and WWC2 knockdown reversed the anti-proliferative, pro-apoptotic, and anti-invasive effects induced by miR-589-3p inhibition (p < 0.01). These findings demonstrate that miR-589-3p promotes lung adenocarcinoma progression by directly suppressing WWC2. The miR-589-3p/WWC2 axis represents a novel molecular mechanism contributing to LUAD malignancy and may provide a foundation for future mechanistic and translational studies.
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is a leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide. Although microRNAs (miRNAs) are known to play crucial roles in tumor progression, the biological function and mechanistic role of miR-4788 in NSCLC remain undefined. This study investigates the role and mechanism of miR-4788 in NSCLC proliferation and metastasis.miR-4788 expression and its prognostic significance were analyzed using The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) data. In vitro assays were conducted in NSCLC cell lines transfected with miR-4788 mimics, DLG5 siRNA, or a 3'-UTR-truncated DLG5 overexpression plasmid. In vivo functional validation was performed in zebrafish and murine xenograft models. Functional assays included assessments of cell viability (CCK-8), proliferation (EdU incorporation, colony formation), cell cycle distribution, migration/invasion (wound healing, Transwell), and mitochondrial function (ATP, MMP, ROS, mitophagy markers). A dual-luciferase reporter assay was used to confirm DLG5 as a direct miR-4788 target, and rescue experiments were conducted to validate its downstream role.miR-4788 was significantly upregulated in NSCLC tissues and was associated with a lower disease-specific survival rate. Its overexpression in vitro and in vivo promoted the proliferation, migration, and invasion of non-small cell lung cancer cells. This oncogenic effect was accompanied by enhanced mitochondrial function, evidenced by increased mitochondrial membrane potential, ATP production, and reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels, along with suppression of mitophagy (reduced Pink1/Parkin expression). Mechanistically, miR-4788 directly targets the 3'-UTR of DLG5, downregulating its expression, and restoring the function of DLG5 could alleviate the carcinogenic phenotype caused by miR-4788.miR-4788 functions as an oncogenic regulator in NSCLC, promoting tumor development by targeting DLG5 and promoting mitochondrial metabolic reprogramming. These findings provide new insights into the miR-4788-DLG5 axis in NSCLC and suggest its potential role in tumor metabolism and immune microenvironment remodeling.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42104413 is a review article
BACKGROUND: Our recent investigations have shown that WWC1 loss leads to sepsis-induced lung injury (SiLI) by reducing activation of Yes-associated protein 1 (YAP1) and stimulator of interferon genes (STING) pathways. This study further explores the involvements of pyroptosis, NETosis, and macrophage recruitment in the associated events. METHODS: Wild-type (wt) C57BL/6 mice, or mice with WWC1 gene knockout (WWC1-ko) or knock-in (WWC1-ki), were subjected to cecal ligation and puncture for SiLI modeling. Immunofluorescence staining and western blot (WB) were employed to analyze NETosis-related markers in lung tissues. Flow cytometry was employed to analyze the proportions of neutrophils and macrophages in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF). Immunohistochemistry and WB were applied to analyze pyroptosis markers. Histological staining was performed to analyze inflammatory responses in the lung tissues. Specific antagonists or agonists were utilized to analyze the involvements of YAP1 and STING in the inflammatory cascades. RESULTS: WWC1-ko mice showed more pronounced NETosis in the lung, accompanied by increased recruitment of neutrophils and macrophages, particularly M1 and M2b subtype macrophages, in the BALF. The pro-pyroptotic cascade was also activated in the lung of WWC1-ko mice. Administration of specific antagonists of NLRP3, YAP1, STING, and IRF3 reduced pyroptosis, alleviated NETosis, reduced abundance of macrophages, and mitigated inflammatory damage in the lung of WWC1-ko mice. By contrast, WWC1-ki mice were more resistant to these inflammatory cascades, which were, however, diminished upon the artificial activation of YAP1 or STING. CONCLUSION: The activation of pyroptosis, YAP1, and STING cascades upon WWC1 deficiency contributes to NETosis and accumulation of pro-inflammatory immune cells in SiLI.
Sézary syndrome (SS) represents an aggressive leukemic variant of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) with distinct clinical behavior compared with other CTCL subtypes. While prior studies have identified recurrent genomic alterations in CTCL, a systematic pathway-centric comparison between SS and non-SS CTCL remains limited. We applied our conversational artificial intelligence (AI) platform for precision oncology, to accelerate hypothesis generation and integrative interpretation of public genomic data.We performed a secondary analysis of somatic mutation and clinical data from the Columbia University CTCL cohort available via cBioPortal. Samples were stratified into SS (n=26) and non-SS CTCL (n=17). High-impact coding variants were retained and annotated to curated functional gene groups and signaling pathways relevant to CTCL biology. Pathway-level mutation frequencies were compared using Fisher's exact test, with effect sizes summarized by odds ratios. Tumor mutation burden (TMB) was compared using Wilcoxon rank-sum testing. Subtype-specific gene-gene co-mutation patterns were assessed using pairwise association testing and visualized with heatmaps and oncoplots, with our conversational AI agents facilitating interactive exploration and prioritization of results.Overall TMB did not differ between SS and non-SS CTCL (p=0.83), indicating comparable global mutational burden. Pathway-level analyses revealed enrichment of alterations affecting epigenetic regulators, tumor suppressor and cell-cycle control genes, NFAT signaling, and apoptosis/immune regulation in SS, whereas MAPK and JAK-STAT pathway alterations were relatively more frequent in non-SS CTCL. Co-mutation analysis demonstrated fewer but more focused gene-gene interactions in SS compared with broader co-mutation networks in non-SS CTCL, suggesting divergent evolutionary constraints. Several genes (including ERBB2, WWC1, POSTN) showed borderline subtype-specific enrichment, warranting further validation.Conversational AI-enhanced analysis reveals that SS is distinguished from other CTCL subtypes not by higher mutational load, but by qualitative differences in pathway involvement, particularly epigenetic dysregulation, immune escape, and transcriptional control. These findings generate testable hypotheses for downstream validation in patient-level datasets and demonstrate the utility of conversational AI agents as accelerators of translational cancer genomics.
LIMD1, a tumour suppressor located at chromosome 3p21.3, is frequently lost in non-small-cell lung cancer, yet its role in tumour-immune interactions remains unclear. Here, we show LIMD1 loss increases PD-L1 protein abundance across multiple lung cancer models and primary airway epithelial cells. Mechanistically, LIMD1 restrains PD-L1 through post-transcriptional and post-translational mechanisms. LIMD1 loss can relieve microRNA-mediated repression of the CD274 3'UTR, and LIMD1 loss can also disrupt ARIH1-PD-L1 association, reduce PD-L1 polyubiquitination, and stabilise PD-L1 protein without a commensurate increase in CD274 transcript levels in isogenic models. Functionally, LIMD1-deficient tumour cells suppress CD8+ T-cell activation in vitro and show enhanced sensitivity to PD-1/PD-L1 blockade in tumour-PBMC co-culture assays. Analysis of TRACERx non-small-cell lung cancer samples revealed clonal LIMD1 loss of heterozygosity in ∼40% of lung adenocarcinomas, where it is associated with increased tumour PD-L1 expression. Across independent patient cohorts receiving immune checkpoint blockade, low LIMD1 expression was enriched among responders. We identify LIMD1 as a tumour-intrinsic regulator of PD-L1 turnover and suggest that tumour suppressor loss can shape immune checkpoint biology and influence immunotherapy response.© 2026 Shah et al.
MicroRNA (miRNA) silencing is classically ascribed to RNA-sequence rules that guide Argonaute 2 (AGO2) targeting. Using chimeric eCLIP and complementary analyses in CRISPR-edited human lung epithelial cells, we show that efficient miRNA targeting also depends on the AGO2 adaptor-scaffold LIMD1. In LIMD1-deficient cells, AGO2 binds more miRNAs, but each AGO2-miRNA engages fewer transcripts and sites, reducing occupancy and halving both the breadth and depth of targeting. LIMD1 dependence is most pronounced for poorly conserved, weakly seed-paired sites that nonetheless form stable duplexes. LIMD1 deficiency alters AGO2 footprints and derepresses oncogenic targets inversely correlated with LIMD1 expression in lung adenocarcinoma. Thus, LIMD1 modifies the outcome of sequence-defined interactions that would otherwise be infrequent, unstable, or unproductive, revealing an adaptor-governed layer of posttranscriptional regulation beyond RNA-sequence rules.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42323257
The truncated constitutive active form of protein kinase C (PKC) called protein kinase M (PKM) plays a role in long-term memory maintenance in vertebrate and invertebrate models. Previously we have shown that the Aplysia Kidney/Brain protein (KIBRA) stabilizes the atypical PKM Apl III, but not the classical PKM Apl I in Aplysia neurons. Expression of Aplysia KIBRA with changes in the proposed atypical PKM binding site does not stabilize PKM Apl III and erases forms of plasticity supported by PKM Apl III. Here, we have examined biomolecular fluorescence complementation (BIFC) between KIBRA variants and PKM Apl III in Aplysia neurons. These KIBRA variants include: the KIBRA with changes in the proposed atypical binding site noted above; a splicing variant that stabilizes PKM Apl I, but not PKM Apl III; and several mutations identified in mammalian WW and C2 domain containing protein 3 (WWC3, a member of the chordate-specific expansion of the KIBRA family) associated with cancer or neurodevelopmental disorders. Surprisingly, we find that some KIBRA variants show BIFC with PKM Apl III but do not stabilize PKM Apl III. We used models of protein-protein interactions (AlphaFold 3) to gain insights into the discrepancy between BIFC and stabilization of PKMs by KIBRA and KIBRA variants and suggest a model where stabilization is linked to stable inhibition of PKMs by KIBRA.© 2026. Crown.
Although enzalutamide (ENZA) has improved the overall survival of patients with metastatic prostate cancer, ENZA resistance (ENZA-resistant) inevitably develops, largely limiting its efficacy. Alternative oncogenic pathways may bypass androgen receptor (AR) signaling to promote ENZA-resistant. Glutamyl-tRNA synthetase 2 (EARS2) is involved in mitochondrial biogenesis and is associated with cancer, but its action mechanism in prostate cancer (PCa) is not well defined. EARS2 expression was detected in primary PCa and castrate-resistant prostate cancer samples, ENZA-resistant cell lines, and ENZA-resistant xenograft models, and the prognostic relationship of EARS2 in patients with PCa was analyzed. In AR-sensitive LNCaP cells, changes in EARS2 expression were explored before and after stimulation with dihydrotestosterone (DHT) or bicalutamide. AR was knocked down in AR-positive LNCaP and C4-2B cells to explore the relationship between EARS2 and AR. The effect of EARS2 on PCa cells was further explored. ENZA-resistant xenograft model was built to explore the effect of EARS2 on tumorigenesis in vivo. EARS2 was knocked down in C4-2B-ENZA-resistant, and the relationship between EARS2 and mitochondrial biogenesis and reactive oxygen species (ROS) homeostasis was investigated in PCa cells. Finally, the relationship between EARS2 and striatin 4 (STRN4) was explored. EARS2 expression was elevated in PCa and correlated with ENZA-resistant, and high EARS2 expression was associated with poorer patient prognosis. In androgen-sensitive LNCaP cells, DHT inhibited EARS2 expression, and silencing AR increased EARS2 expression. Suppressing EARS2 inhibited the proliferation, colony formation, migration and invasion ability, down-regulated the IC50 of ENZA in ENZA-resistant cells, and promoted apoptosis. Stable EARS2 downregulation in C4-2B-ENZA-resistant significantly inhibited tumor growth. Suppressing EARS2 in ENZA-resistant cells may lead to increased mitochondrial biogenesis and ROS generation. Mechanistically, EARS2 inhibited mitochondrial biogenesis and ROS generation in PCa cells by targeting STRN4. EARS2 targets STRN4 to modulate mitochondrial biogenesis and ROS homeostasis mediating ENZA-resistant.Copyright© 2025 Polish Physiological Society.
Usher syndrome (USH) is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by hearing loss, retinitis pigmentosa, and variable vestibular dysfunction. USH2A is one of the causative genes of USH. This study is aimed at exploring the mechanism of hearing loss induced by USH2A gene knockout.USH2A knockout (Ush2a-/-) mice were used, and auditory brainstem response testing was performed on WT, Ush2a-/-, and Ush2a+/- mice. Then, the cochlea tissues were used to carry out immunofluorescence staining, hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining, and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The mRNA expressions were detected by RT-qPCR. Finally, the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in cochlear tissues of Ush2a-/- and WT mice were identified by transcriptome sequencing.Compared to WT mice, Ush2a-/- and Ush2a+/- mice exhibited moderate-to-severe nonprogressive hearing loss, with more pronounced deficits at low (4 kHz) and high (32/24 kHz) frequencies. HE staining and immunofluorescence staining showed that the modiolus, stria vascularis, basilar membrane, and the number of inner hair cells and outer hair cells (OHCs) in USH2A knockout mice have not changed. However, SEM results showed that severe stereociliary collapse was evident in OHCs of the Ush2a-/- group. In addition, through transcriptomic analysis, 3632 upregulated genes and 2921 downregulated genes were obtained in the Ush2a-/- mice. Among these DEGs, the most DEGs associated with hearing loss were Scn2a, Shank2, Bsn, Fcer1g, Prkce, Tgfb1, and Irf7.This study demonstrates that USH2A deficiency disrupts auditory function through stereociliary instability and dysregulation of genes critical for synaptic transmission and cytoskeletal dynamics.Copyright © 2026 Chi Chen et al. Human Mutation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Objective: To investigate the clinicopathological and genetic characteristics of papillary glioneuronal tumor (PGNT) and to reclassify cases according to the integrated pathologic-molecular diagnosis with the 2021 World Health Organization (WHO) classification of tumors of central nervous system (CNS). Methods: Six tumors diagnosed as PGNT at the Sanbo Brain Hospital, Capital Medical University from January 2010 to August 2025 were collected. Their clinical, imaging, histopathological, and molecular data were retrospectively analyzed. Comprehensive profiling was conducted using hematoxylin and eosin staining, immunohistochemistry, targeted next-generation sequencing, RNA sequencing, and DNA methylation analyses. Results: All tumors were located in the supratentorial cerebral hemispheres. Among the 6 patients, there were 4 males and 2 females, aged 17.0 (10.0, 25.5) years old. Histology revealed a characteristic papillary structure. In four cases, focal and sheet-like neurocytic cells were observed in interpapillary regions, meanwhile two cases showed scattered suspicious ganglion or neuronal cells. Mitoses were rare. The case 4 exhibited focal anaplasia features within the tumor. The papillary-forming cells showed diffuse immunoreactivity for GFAP, OLIG2, S-100, and SOX10. Cells in the interpapillary areas exhibited diffuse or partial synaptophysin positivity, with focal and diffuse positivity for NeuN and calretinin in four cases. The Ki-67 proliferation index was mostly<5% (only one case showed a focal increase to 8%). All cases were negative for IDH1-R132H, H3K27M, and BRAF V600E. Cases 3 to 6 harbored SLC44A1::PRKCA fusions. Cases 1 and 2 had KIAA1549::BRAF and STRIP2::BRAF fusions, respectively. Based on the integrated pathologic-molecular diagnosis, the cases 3 to 6 were definitively classified as PGNT, CNS WHO grade 1, while the case 4 showed focal anaplasia. By integrated with DNA methylation profiling, the case 1 and 2 were reclassified as low-grade glioma/low-grade glioneuronal tumor, not elsewhere classified. The 6 patients underwent craniotomy with gross total or subtotal tumor resection. One of them also received local radiotherapy. At the last follow-up (July 2025), all patients were alive without recurrence or progression. The overall survivals were 105, 50, 66, 64, 12, and 6 months, respectively. Conclusions: PGNT is a rare glioneuronal tumor characterized by a biphasic pattern with pseudopapillary glial architectures and interpapillary neuronal components. The presence of focal and sheet-like NeuN-positive neurocytic cells in the interpapillary regions is a significant diagnostic clue for PGNT. Integrated pathologic-molecular analysis is essential for accurately classifying supratentorial papillary glioneuronal tumors. Classic PGNTs are molecularly defined by recurrent PRKCA fusions, while BRAF-altered cases warrant reclassification.
Gastrointestinal (GI) involvement in systemic sclerosis (SSc) affects up to 90% of patients and is a major driver of morbidity and mortality. Despite its clinical importance, GI disease in SSc is highly heterogeneous, with upper and lower GI manifestations representing distinct phenotypic extremes whose underlying immunologic basis remains poorly defined.We performed unbiased, proteome-wide autoantibody profiling using a human protein microarray comprising >21,000 full-length proteins (>80% of the human proteome). Sera from patients with SSc and isolated upper GI dysmotility (n=23), isolated lower GI dysmotility (n=17), and non-SSc controls (n=20) were analyzed. Enriched autoantibodies were identified using Fisher's exact test, and unsupervised clustering was applied to define serology-based patient subsets and relate immune signatures to clinical phenotypes.Distinct autoantibody profiles differentiated patients with upper versus lower GI disease. Upper GI-predominant SSc was characterized by enrichment of previously unreported autoantibodies, including those targeting TiSSc1/2 (newly identified proteins encoded within the MIRLET7BHG locus), FAM9C, SPATA20, FAM110D, EMILIN1, CARD14, SMN1, KCTD7, and PHYHD1, whereas lower GI disease was associated with antibodies against HAO2, KLHL7, SUFU, APPL1, BNIP2, UCHL3, ZNF385A, LIMD1, MAGEA9, and PPP2R3C. Serology-driven clustering identified four reproducible subgroups with distinct patterns of GI, pulmonary, vascular, and autonomic involvement, defining clinically meaningful disease phenotypes that extend beyond traditional anatomic classification.Proteome-scale serological profiling reveals previously unrecognized autoimmune signatures underlying GI heterogeneity in SSc. These findings support a shift from anatomy-based to serology-defined classification of SSc GI disease and provide a foundation for biomarker development, patient stratification, and precision medicine approaches in this population.
Suppressed NMDA receptor (NMDAR) function contributes to multiple brain disorders, including schizophrenia, autism spectrum disorder (ASD), and NMDAR encephalitis. Previous attempts to restore NMDAR activity by increasing ambient glycine, a critical co-agonist, through GlyT1 inhibition have yielded mixed outcomes, partly due to GlyT1's extensive expression in essential brainstem regions. Slc6a20a, a glycine transporter widely expressed in cognition-relevant regions such as the cortex and hippocampus, offers a targeted alternative. Here we show that antisense oligonucleotide (ASO)-mediated Slc6a20a inhibition (Slc6a20a-ASO) normalizes ASD-related phenotypes in male Shank2- and Shank3-mutant mice, with model-dependent rescue profiles. Slc6a20a-ASO rescues NMDAR hypofunction and synaptic phospho-proteomic profiles in the prefrontal cortex. Furthermore, ASO targeting human SLC6A20 rescues suppressed NMDAR function in cortical organoids harboring SHANK2 or SHANK3 mutations. These findings underscore the potential and limitations of Slc6a20a/SLC6A20-ASO for treating disorders characterized by NMDAR hypofunction.© 2026. The Author(s).
Long-read sequencing provides a more complete view of the genome compared with short-read sequencing, with improved detection of structural variants, tandem repeats (TRs), and small variants (single-nucleotide variants [SNVs] and insertions and deletions) in difficult-to-map regions. One limitation of long-read sequencing has been high input DNA requirements, with several micrograms required per sample. Here, we evaluate two methods of amplification-based long-read, whole-genome sequencing: ultralow input HiFi (ULI-HiFi) sequencing and droplet multiple displacement amplification (dMDA) sequencing. When benchmarked against the Genome in a Bottle reference set (NA24385), we observe high precision and recall of SNVs with ULI-HiFi compared with the dMDA-amplified samples (F1 scores for SNVs of 99.82% for ULI-HiFi compared with 89.46% for dMDA). Across a catalog of more than 1.6 million TRs, ULI-HiFi achieves 90.4% perfect concordance and 98.9% accuracy when allowing for single motif differences. ULI-HiFi also illuminates medically important genes that were poorly mapped by short-read sequencing. We further apply ULI-HiFi to analyze a normal, polyp, and adenocarcinoma sample from a patient with familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP), a hereditary form of colorectal cancer. We identify a TR that progressively expanded in length from normal to polyp to adenocarcinoma. This repeat is located in the 5' UTR of LIMD1, a reported tumor suppressor. Reporter assays reveal significantly reduced expression in colorectal cancer cell lines with increasing repeat length in the LIMD1 5' UTR. We conclude that ULI-HiFi improves the characterization of genetic variants in dark regions of genomes from patient samples, enabling a better understanding of human disease.© 2026 Wang et al.; Published by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press.
Autophagy is a key host defense mechanism against Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb). The autophagy‑regulating gene, immunity-related GTPase M (IRGM), may influence tuberculosis (TB) susceptibility.To investigate whether two IRGM single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP), rs4958847 and rs72553867, are associated with TB disease and/or TB infection (TBI).An unmatched case-control study was conducted at the National Institute of Infectious Diseases L. Spallanzani-IRCCS, Italy. Logistic regression analyses evaluated the effects of individual SNPs and their diplotypes on TB status.Among 709 participants enrolled in Italy with diverse European ancestries, 644 individuals with complete data were included. Individual SNP analysis of 194 TB patients, 194 TBI individuals, and 256 TB-free controls revealed no significant associations with TB status. However, diplotype analysis identified an association between the rs4958847-rs72553867 GG-AC vs GG-CC diplotype with TB diseases with respect to TB-free group (OR=2.56, 95% CI:1.18-5.56).Although the individual IRGM variants were not associated with TB, combined diplotype analysis indicated a potential role for IRGM-mediated autophagy in TB disease within European populations.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
N6-methyladenosine (m6A) RNA methylation is one of the most prevalent reversible post-transcriptional RNA modifications and has been recognized as a crucial regulator of host immune responses. Intestinal epithelial cells (IECs) constitute an important component of gastrointestinal mucosal immunity. Interferons (IFNs) play a central role in maintaining intestinal homeostasis, and m6A methylation status influences IFN-mediated cell-intrinsic defense. In this study, we investigated the potential role of m6A RNA modifications in IFN-γ-stimulated IEC-intrinsic defense. We observed significant alterations in the topology of the m6A mRNA methylome in murine IECs following IFN-γ stimulation. A subset of IFN-γ-stimulated immune gene transcripts exhibited increased m6A RNA methylation, including several members of the immunity-related GTPase family M (IRGM) genes. In addition, IFN-γ-responsive long non-coding RNAs may modulate the m6A methylation levels of multiple IFN-γ-stimulated immune transcripts. Enhanced m6A methylation of the Irgm2/3 transcripts was associated with strengthened cell-intrinsic defense against infection by the protozoan parasite Cryptosporidium. Notably, Cryptosporidium infection altered the host m6A mRNA methylome in IECs, thereby counteracting the IFN-γ-mediated defense response. Although the RNA levels of Irgm2/3 genes were upregulated, their m6A RNA methylation levels and protein expression were reduced in infected cells. This effect was associated with host delivery of dsRNAs derived from Cryptosporidium parvum virus 1, a virus harbored in the parasite. Collectively, our findings suggest that m6A methylation of RNA transcripts enhances IFN-γ-mediated IEC-intrinsic antiparasitic defense, while Cryptosporidium has evolved mechanisms to evade this response by suppressing m6A RNA methylation of IFN-γ-stimulated immune genes.Copyright: © 2026 Pok et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
SIVA1 is a multifunctional protein involved in processes that are critical for tumor progression. In breast cancer, SIVA1 is frequently overexpressed; however, its functional role remains poorly defined. This study aimed to elucidate the cellular mechanisms regulated by SIVA1 and to characterize its molecular network in breast cancer. Integrated in silico analyses and in vitro functional and molecular assays in breast cancer cell lines were conducted to investigate SIVA1 expression and associated signaling pathways. Cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and drug sensitivity were assessed in 2D and 3D culture models. Molecular analyses included markers of DNA damage and apoptosis, cytoskeletal regulators, ubiquitination status, and p53 signaling. The subcellular localization of SIVA1 was investigated. SIVA1 was overexpressed in breast cancer cells and associated with pathways related to protein secretion, spliceosome activity, DNA repair, and oxidative stress. Functional analyses linked SIVA1 to mitochondrial permeabilization, ubiquitin-mediated processes, cytoskeletal regulation, and p53-dependent apoptosis. SIVA1 knockdown increased cell growth, migration, and invasion, while enhancing sensitivity to paclitaxel in both 2D and 3D models, evidenced by reduced ATP levels and increased cleaved PARP1 and γ-H2AX. SIVA1 knockdown resulted in the accumulation of phosphorylated p53 and reduced phospho-Stathmin 1 and ubiquitin levels. SIVA1 displayed predominant nuclear localization, independent of treatment. In summary, these findings identify SIVA1 as a key regulator of proliferation and cytoskeletal dynamics in breast cancer, whose inhibition induces a more aggressive yet taxane-sensitive phenotype, with potential implications for patient stratification and therapeutic decision-making.© 2026 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42329424 is a review article
The Notch signaling pathway is essential for the self-renewal, differentiation, and maintenance of neural stem cells (NSCs). While genetic studies in Drosophila have implicated Strawberry Notch in Notch signaling, the role of its vertebrate homologue, Sbno1, in mammalian NSCs remains largely unexplored. Here we show that Sbno1 interacts with Rbpj, the central transcriptional mediator of Notch, as well as with the deubiquitinating enzyme Usp8. Promoter analyses revealed that Sbno1 and Usp8 synergistically enhance expression of Hes5, a well-known Notch target in NSCs. Using in utero electroporation to overexpress or knock out Usp8 in embryonic cortical NSCs, we demonstrate that Usp8 is essential for NSC maintenance whereas loss of Sbno1 leads to NSC depletion and premature neuronal differentiation. Mechanistically, our results suggest that Sbno1 facilitates Usp8-mediated stabilization of the Notch intracellular domain and resolves R-loops at the Hes5 promoter, thereby promoting target gene expression. Together, these findings identify Sbno1 and Usp8 as critical, previously unrecognized regulators of Notch signaling in NSCs and provide the first in vivo evidence of their physiological roles in mammalian cortical development.© 2026 Japanese Society of Developmental Biologists.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42317752 is a review article
Stresses like starvation trigger degradation of mature 40S ribosomes, requiring the coordinated breakdown of large and stable RNA-protein complexes. The atypical kinase RIOK3 orchestrates degradation by binding ubiquitylated 40S ribosomes and promoting rRNA decay. However, the mechanisms and factors that mediate rRNA decay remain unknown. Here we find that in response to starvation, RIOK3 recruits the terminal uridylyl-transferase TUT7 and the exonuclease DIS3L2 to 40S ribosomes. Sequencing analyses show that TUT7 adds oligo(uridine) tails to the 3' end of the 18S rRNA in these ribosomes. DIS3L2 subsequently recognizes uridylated 18S rRNA and carries out 3'-5' decay. We identify major decay intermediates that undergo further uridylation in a process of iterative uridylation and decay. Loss of DIS3L2 impairs 18S rRNA decay during starvation and leads to accumulation of uridylated 18S rRNA. Together these findings define a mechanism for ribosome degradation in which 3' oligo(uridine) tailing drives decay of rRNA from ribosomes.
Autophagy is a crucial host defense mechanism against intracellular pathogens, including Mycobacterium leprae. Genetic variants in autophagy-related genes have been associated with susceptibility to leprosy, but their functional relevance remains incompletely understood.We investigate the association of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in three genes involved in autophagy, CACNA2D3, LRRK2 and IRGM. A total of 3,480 individuals from three Brazilian populations were included in a case-control design. We confirmed that the SNP rs1449325 in CACNA2D3 was associated with leprosy per se protection in the overdominant model (ORoverdTC = 0.70; p = 0.00443) in Rio de Janeiro, which was then replicated in samples from Manaus and Rondonópolis. Curiously, CC genotype of rs1449325 was associated with leprosy per se risk in the recessive model in Rio de Janeiro (ORrecCC = 1.51; p = 0.00476), Manaus (ORrecCC = 3.06; p = 1.44E-07) and Rondonópolis (ORrecCC = 1.50; p = 0.0240). Data from public eQTLs databases and gene expression analysis from whole blood samples suggested increasing CACNA2D3 expression levels with TT < CT < CC genotypes. In the literature, CACNA2D3 mRNA levels are positively correlated with calcium influx levels. Taken together, the genetic and expression data support the hypothesis that either low or high levels of calcium leads to M. leprae susceptibility. Associations of SNPs in LRRK2 and IRGM genes were also observed in the Rio de janeiro population, although not confirmed in replication cohorts. However, a protective effect of the LRRK2 haplotype C/G/G/T/G (rs7308720/rs7133914/rs10878434/rs3761863/rs7962370), apparently driven by rs3761863 T allele, was observed in Rio de Janeiro (ORhap = 0.44; p = 0.0121). This allele was associated with lower levels of LRRK2 mRNA expression in skin biopsy samples from leprosy patients, as well as in tibial nerve and fibroblast samples of healthy individuals from public databases.Our results highlight a dual role of calcium signaling and autophagy gene regulation in leprosy susceptibility. Variants in CACNA2D3 and LRRK2 modulate host response to M. leprae infection and represent potential targets for improved therapeutic and preventive approaches.Copyright: © 2026 Espasandin et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Dilip Kumar is a structural biologist, working on developing novel antiviral strategies against pathogenic RNA viruses by using an integrated structural biology approach. In this mSphere of Influence article, he emphasizes how two remarkable research articles on host-pathogen interactions, "Inhibition of IRGM establishes a robust antiviral immune state to restrict pathogenic viruses" by P. Nath, N. R. Chauhan, K. K. Jena, A. Datey, et al. (EMBO Rep 22:EMBR202152948, 2021, https://doi.org/10.15252/embr.202152948), and "Cotranslational prolyl hydroxylation is essential for flavivirus biogenesis" by R. Aviner, K. H. Li, J. Frydman, and R. Andino (Nature, 596:558-564, 2021, https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-021-03851-2), sparked his interest in pursuing host-pathogen interactions to develop a broad range of antiviral therapeutics.
Glioblastoma (GBM), a rare, highly aggressive and chemoresistant brain cancer, exhibits profound metabolic plasticity that relies, in part, on aberrant transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) signaling. Such plasticity was recently associated with TGF-β-regulated apoptosis and autophagy. Here, we questioned whether TGF-β-regulated apoptotic/autophagic phenotypes are recapitulated in a preclinical in vitro 3D spheroid culture model of human U87 GBM-derived cells, and how metabolic alterations affect such phenotypes.3D U87 spheroids were cultured using the hanging drop method. Western blotting was used to assess protein expression, while RT-qPCR was used to assess gene expression levels.3D spheroids exhibited decreased AKT phosphorylation, and increased TGF-β, fibronectin, and Smad2 phosphorylation, indicative of both cell death signaling and epithelial-mesenchymal transition molecular signatures. 2-Deoxy-D-glucose (2DG), a glycolytic inhibitor, depleted ATP dose-dependently (30-300 μM) and prevented those increases both at the protein and transcriptional levels. This was also observed in 3D spheroids upon TGF-β transient siRNA-mediated silencing or when TGF-βR1 kinase activity was inhibited by galunisertib. Transcriptomic profiling revealed shared upregulation of apoptosis-related (BCL2, CASP7, FAS, FASLG, GADD45A) and autophagy-related (ATG7, ATG16L1, IRGM, PIK3C3, ULK1) genes in response to TGF-β or upon 3D spheroid formation. 2DG, transient silencing of TGF-β, or galunisertib treatment prevented these increases.3D spheroids require ATP and a TGF-β/TGF-βR1 autocrine signaling axis to recapitulate the apoptosis/autophagy phenotypes. Combining glycolysis inhibition with TGF-β signaling inhibition could offer a promising therapeutic strategy for this rare and lethal brain cancer.© The Author(s) 2026.
Dentinogenesis, a process essential for tooth function, relies on the precise differentiation of dental papilla cells into odontoblasts. This lineage commitment is governed by complex transcription factor networks. RUNX2 and KLF4, known key TFs co-expressed in this process, were proven to operate synergistically, but the specific cofactors coordinating their activity at the chromatin level remain unknown. Here, we identify the chromatin remodeller BRD9 as a novel interactor of both RUNX2 and KLF4 during odontoblastic differentiation. To probe their shared function, we generated neural crest-specific conditional knockout mice. Wnt1-Cre; Brd9fl/fl mice exhibited a disordered odontoblast layer with reduced secretion of extracellular matrix proteins (DMP1 and DSPP), strikingly phenocopying the compound Wnt1-Cre; Runx2fl/wt; Klf4fl/fl mutants. In vitro, chemical BRD9 degradation suppressed odontoblastic differentiation and mineral deposition. Integrative analyses of RNA-seq and ATAC-seq revealed that BRD9 maintained chromatin accessibility at odontogenesis-associated regions enriched with RUNX2 and KLF4 motifs, specifically at the Fam20c enhancer, thereby facilitating RUNX2 and KLF4 binding for transcriptional activation. Crucially, exogenous supplementation of FAM20C protein partially rescued the odontoblastic differentiation defects upon BRD9 loss. These findings establish BRD9 as a critical epigenetic orchestrator that coordinates RUNX2-KLF4 synergy to activate key odontogenic genes like Fam20c, thus affecting odontoblastic differentiation and dentinogenesis.© 2026 The Author(s). Cell Proliferation published by Beijing Institute for Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
TRIB3 is upregulated in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and associates with worse survival, yet targeted therapeutics remain lacking. Calcium phosphate (CaP) nanoparticles offer biocompatible, serum-stable delivery for siRNA therapy. Here, we developed CaP nanoparticles loading siRNA targeting TRIB3 (NPCaP/siTrib3) and evaluated antitumor efficacy and mechanisms in vitro and in vivo.NPCaP/siTrib3 was synthesized via biomineralization, and RNase resistance was verified by PAGE. Mouse KP-1 NSCLC cells were used for transfection, apoptosis (Annexin V/7-AAD), migration (scratch), invasion (Matrigel Transwell), qRT-PCR, and Western blot of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and stemness markers. C57BL/6 subcutaneous tumor models received tail-vein injections for efficacy and biosafety assessment.TRIB3 was significantly upregulated in NSCLC tissues compared with normal lung tissues and was associated with poorer overall survival. NPCaP/siTrib3 formed nanosheets with an average size of approximately 159.4 nm and exhibited a more negative zeta potential than bare CaP, indicating successful siRNA loading. The CaP shell effectively protected siTrib3 from RNase degradation. NPCaP/siTrib3 efficiently silenced TRIB3 protein expression in KP-1 cells, with gene knockdown efficacy comparable to Lipo8000 but with lower cytotoxicity. Functionally, NPCaP/siTrib3 significantly promoted apoptosis and inhibited cell migration and invasion. In vivo, intravenously administered NPCaP/siTrib3, which primarily accumulated in tumors through the enhanced permeability and retention (EPR) effect, markedly suppressed tumor growth without affecting body weight. Mechanistically, NPCaP/siTrib3 reversed EMT by upregulating E-cadherin and downregulating N-cadherin and Snail, and reduced cancer stemness by decreasing the expression of Sox2, Nanog, Pou5f1, Klf4, and c-Myc. Biosafety evaluations demonstrated negligible hemolysis, normal serum biochemistry and hematology, and no histopathological damage in major organs.NPCaP/siTrib3 is an effective and biocompatible siRNA nanoplatform that suppresses NSCLC progression through dual inhibition of EMT and cancer stemness, supporting TRIB3 as a promising therapeutic target.© 2026 Wu et al.
RNA 5-methylcytosine (m5C) methylation has emerged as an important epitranscriptomic regulator of gene expression, yet its role in stem cell maintenance remains not well understood. Here we identify a previously unrecognized function of the m5C methyltransferase NSUN2 in protecting stem cells from ferroptosis and promoting tissue regeneration. NSUN2 deletion reduced GPX4 expression, decreased intracellular GSH levels, increased Fe2+ accumulation, and enhanced lipid peroxidation in stem cells, leading to ferroptotic cell death, loss of tissue stem cells and impaired tissue regeneration across multiple organs. Mechanistically, NSUN2 catalyzed m5C methylation of Klf4 mRNA, thereby increasing KLF4 expression and transcriptionally promoting GPX4 to suppress ferroptosis in stem cells. Importantly, KLF4 restoration in vivo rescued NSUN2 deficiency-induced stem cell defects and impaired tissue regeneration. Furthermore, NSUN2 gene therapy significantly bolstered tissue stem cells with superior tissue regeneration and repair in multiple tissues. These findings highlight the NSUN2/KLF4/GPX4 axis in safeguarding stem cells against ferroptosis for tissue repair and a promising therapeutic value of NSUN2 in regenerative medicine.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42547809
The heterogeneity and complex tumor microenvironment of lung adenocarcinoma lead to poor prognosis. Autophagy, as a key cellular process, interacts with tumor immune infiltration and jointly affects the progression of lung adenocarcinoma, but its core regulatory genes and mechanisms are still unclear.This study integrated three lung adenocarcinoma transcriptome datasets from the GEO database and performed cross-analysis with the human autophagy gene set to screen for differentially expressed autophagy-related genes. Identify core prognostic genes by constructing protein interaction networks and combining them with machine learning algorithms (Cox regression, SHAP analysis). Use the independent dataset GSE68465 to validate the model through a combination of 100 algorithms. Further elucidate the function, cellular localization, and association with smoking risk of core genes through enrichment analysis, immune infiltration assessment, single-cell transcriptome analysis, and network toxicology.A total of 276 shared autophagy‑related differentially expressed genes were identified. Using machine learning, five core genes-ENG, CDH1, KLF4, IL6, and MMP9-were selected. In the independent validation cohort, the prognostic model based on these genes demonstrated strong diagnostic performance (AUC > 0.9). Enrichment analysis revealed that the core genes were significantly enriched in pathways such as cellular senescence, autophagy, and FoxO signaling. Immune infiltration analysis showed that M1 macrophages and naïve B cells were significantly upregulated in tumor tissues, whereas resting dendritic cells were downregulated. Single‑cell analysis identified specific expression of genes including CDH1 and TGFB1 in type II alveolar cells and immune cells. Network toxicology and molecular docking confirmed that nicotine, a major component of cigarette smoke, exhibits high‑affinity binding to the core genes CDH1, HIF1A, KLF4, TGFB1, and BCL2.This study successfully identified and validated a robust prognostic feature consisting of five autophagy-related genes. These genes play a key role in the development of lung adenocarcinoma by regulating the tumor immune microenvironment, cell communication, and responding to external risk factors, providing new potential targets for prognosis prediction and targeted therapy.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
This study investigated the role of Krüppel-like factor 4 (KLF4) in macrophage-mediated inflammation in type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) with psoriasis. KLF4, tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases 3 (TIMP3)/a disintegrin and a metalloproteinase domain 17 (ADAM17) levels were measured in skin samples from patients. A diabetic psoriasis-like dermatitis mouse model was established using imiquimod (IMQ) and treated with KLF4-overexpressing lentivirus. Glucose/lipid metabolism, skin pathology, mast cell counts, and inflammatory markers were assessed. Macrophage status was evaluated by F4/80 staining. KLF4 was downregulated in patients with T2DM with psoriasis. In mice with diabetic psoriasis-like dermatitis. KLF4 overexpression improved glucose/lipid metabolism and reduced skin erythema, scaling, thickening, psoriasis area severity index, and mast cell infiltration. KLF4 also decreased inflammation and modulated the TIMP3/ADAM17 pathway. These findings indicate that KLF4 ameliorates IMQ-induced inflammation via the TIMP3/ADAM17 pathway in diabetic psoriasis-like dermatitis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42525347 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42523720 is a review article
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42521524
Skipped: PubMed ID 42511072 is a review article
5-Fluorouracil (5-FU) is a first-line chemotherapy commonly used to treat colorectal cancer (CRC). However, the development of acquired resistance to 5-FU remains a significant clinical challenge, and the underlying epigenetic mechanisms are not fully understood. In this study, we demonstrate that euchromatic histone lysine methyltransferase 2 (EHMT2) is significantly upregulated in CRC patients with poor responses to 5-FU, directly correlating with lower overall survival rates. Using established 5-FU resistant (5-FUR) HCT116 and HT29 cell lines, RNA-sequencing confirmed robust EHMT2 overexpression compared with wild-type cells. Mechanistically, siRNA-mediated knockdown of EHMT2 restored 5-FU sensitivity by upregulating protein phosphatase 1B (PPM1B), a key downstream target. This EHMT2-PPM1B axis disruption effectively induced G1 phase cell cycle arrest and triggered apoptosis in 5-FUR cells, fundamentally impairing their proliferation. Furthermore, we validated the therapeutic potential of targeting this pathway using in vivo and ex vivo models. Combination treatment with 5-FU and the specific pharmacological EHMT2 inhibitor (BIX-01294) synergistically suppressed tumor growth in a 5-FUR cell-derived xenograft mouse model. Importantly, these therapeutic effects were faithfully recapitulated in 5-FUR patient-derived colorectal cancer organoid (PDO) models. Together, our findings elucidate a critical epigenetic mechanism where EHMT2 promotes 5-FU drug resistance. Targeting EHMT2 represents a promising and translatable therapeutic strategy for overcoming chemoresistance and improving clinical outcomes in CRC patients.© 2026. The Author(s).
The metal-dependent protein phosphatase (PPM/PP2C) family regulates innate immune and cell death pathways through reversible phosphorylation. Although these enzymes contain a conserved third Mg2+/Mn2+ ion (M3) that is essential for activity, its chemical role in phosphate hydrolysis has remained unclear. Here, we report studies that reveal PPM1B promotes cell death during Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection and utilizes a trinuclear metal center in which M3 directly coordinates the substrate phosphate, positioning it for in-line SN2 hydrolysis. In addition to substrate orientation, M3 positions a water molecule to protonate the departing alkoxide, stabilizing the leaving-group. Functionally, M3 substitutes for the arginine clamp in phosphoprotein phosphatases (PPP), revealing that these evolutionarily distinct phosphatase families have converged on the same chemical strategy through fundamentally different catalytic architectures. Together, these findings define a three-metal mechanism in PPM phosphatases and identify the M3 site as a rare and potentially druggable feature for immune and infectious diseases.
Pulmonary carcinoma remains a highly aggressive malignancy driven by complex signaling and epigenetic dysregulation. This study investigates a novel oncogenic pathway involving the Mg2+/Mn2+-dependent protein phosphatase 1B PPM1B/myosin phosphatase (MP)/protein arginine methyltransferase 5 (PRMT5) axis, which promotes carcinogenesis by symmetrically dimethylating histone H2A and suppressing tumor suppressor genes. We hypothesized that loss of PPM1B would activate this pathway and drive tumorigenesis. Western blotting, PCR, and immunohistochemistry revealed a significant reduction in PPM1B expression in both squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) and human lung adenocarcinoma (ADC) compared to normal lung tissues, which correlated with worse patient survival. Despite an increase in total MYPT1, the regulatory subunit of MP, its inhibitory phosphorylation at Thr853 was significantly elevated in both tumor types. The inactivation of MP corresponded with a significant increase in the activating phosphorylation of PRMT5 at Thr80, especially in SCC, which was linked to a particularly poor prognosis. Downstream, this resulted in a dramatic elevation in the symmetric dimethylation of histone H2A, leading to decreased expression of retinoblastoma protein. Our findings demonstrate that decreased PPM1B expression drives the oncogenic activation of the MP/PRMT5 axis. This mechanism contributes to the aggressive nature of SCC, establishing PPM1B as a promising prognostic marker in lung cancer.
BACKGROUND: Papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) is usually indolent, but a subset of patients shows aggressive behavior. Understanding protein-level mechanisms is essential for identifying new therapeutic targets. MATERIALS AND METHODS: We integrated protein quantitative trait loci (pQTL)-based Mendelian randomization (MR), transcriptomic validation, and mediation analysis to investigate protein-level causal pathways in PTC. Genome-wide association study (GWAS) summary statistics for PTC were obtained from the FinnGen cohort (2400 cases, 78,749 controls). Candidate proteins were selected based on prior evidence of involvement in pyroptosis-related pathways, including phospholipase C gamma 1 (PLCG1), which has been functionally linked to inflammation-associated cell death. pQTL data were sourced from the UK Biobank (UKB) and deCODE datasets. Two-sample MR was conducted using the inverse variance weighting (IVW) method, with sensitivity analyses for pleiotropy and heterogeneity. Mediation analysis was used to estimate indirect effects of upstream proteins on PTC risk via PLCG1. Differential expression was assessed using data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and the Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx) project via the Gene Expression Profiling Interactive Analysis 2 (GEPIA2) platform. RESULTS: Among 11 pyroptosis-related proteins with available pQTL instruments, the genetically predicted plasma level of phospholipase C gamma 1 (PLCG1) was significantly associated with reduced PTC risk (OR = 0.679, 95% CI 0.520–0.887, p = 0.004). Its downregulation in tumor tissues was confirmed by RNA-sequencing data from TCGA-THCA (p < 0.001). We next performed MR using data from the UKB-PPP, identifying 118 proteins with FDR-significant causal associations with PTC risk (FDR < 0.1), including 58 protective and 60 risk-enhancing proteins. Of the 118 proteins, 28 were causally associated with PLCG1 expression, with inflammation-related proteins comprising the largest proportion (46.4%). Mediation analysis revealed that SMPD3 (25.21%, p = 0.008), SIRT1 (22.70%, p = 0.007), and PPM1B (19.91%, p = 0.005) exerted significant indirect effects on PTC risk via PLCG1. These proteins were also downregulated in tumor tissues, with SMPD3 showing the most pronounced decrease (log₂FC = − 1.303, adjp = 3.63 × 10−127). CONCLUSION: Our study findings suggest a potential regulatory axis in which inflammation-related proteins, such as SMPD3, may influence the risk of papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) through the pyroptosis-associated mediator PLCG1. These associations suggest a possible protein-level pathway in PTC, with SMPD3 and PLCG1 as promising molecular candidates, although further experimental validation is required to confirm their functional roles.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is one of the most lethal solid malignancies. PDAC is characterized by prominent necrotic foci within the tumor and a high propensity for distant liver metastasis, leading to a poor prognosis. In this study, using patient-derived organoid models, single-cell RNA sequencing, and multiplex immunofluorescence staining of samples from patients with PDAC, in vivo TGFβ1 conditional knockout mouse models, and 3D in vitro models, we discovered that the formation of intratumoral necrotic foci in pancreatic cancer is closely associated with liver metastatic events. This process was triggered by the deficiency of the long noncoding RNA TRAF3IP2-AS1 that induced necroptosis, which was accompanied by an immunosuppressive microenvironment. Mechanistically, TRAF3IP2-AS1 blocked necroptosis by reducing the mRNA stability of MLKL through competitively binding to IGF2BP2. Loss of TRAF3IP2-AS1 also promoted necroptosis by promoting RIPK3 phosphorylation via interference with the ubiquitination of the phosphatase PPM1B that dephosphorylates RIPK3. Additionally, TRAF3IP2-AS1 deficiency promoted the release of TGFβ1 from tumor cells, which induced an M2-like immunosuppressive phenotype and the release of more TGFβ1. The elevated production of TGFβ1 created a feedback loop that promoted the transcription of TRAF3IP2-AS1 in tumor cells to balance necroptosis. Overall, these findings identify TRAF3IP2-AS1 as a key regulator of necroptosis and the formation of an immunosuppressive microenvironment in PDAC, providing potential therapeutic targets for treating liver metastasis in patients with pancreatic cancer.TRAF3IP2-AS1 deficiency drives necroptosis in pancreatic cancer cells to engender a prometastatic immunosuppressive niche mediated by TGFβ1 production, providing mechanistic understanding of necroptosis and therapeutic strategies for treating liver metastasis.©2025 American Association for Cancer Research.
Cognitive dysfunction poses a significant challenge in clinical practice, but currently available drugs mainly address symptoms and have limited effectiveness in treating cognitive dysfunction associated with various neurological disorders. Mendelian randomization (MR) and colocalization analyses were conducted to explore the causal associations between 4302 druggable genes with blood and brain cis-expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs) and cognitive performance. The causal effects of candidate druggable genes on brain structure and neurological diseases were assessed to gain insights into the underlying mechanisms. Among over 4000 druggable genes, our study identified causal associations between 72 druggable genes (41 blood eQTLs and 31 brain eQTLs) and cognitive performance. Thirteen eQTLs (six in blood: ERBB3, SPEG, ATP2A1, GDF11, CYP2D6, GANAB; seven in brain: ERBB3, DPYD, TAB1, WNT4, CLCN2, PPM1B, CAMKV) were identified as candidate druggable genes for cognitive performance. Notably, both blood and brain eQTLs of ERBB3 were negatively associated with cognitive performance (blood: OR = 0.933, 95% CI 0.911-0.956, p-value = 9.69E-09; brain: OR = 0.782, 95% CI 0.718-0.852, p-value = 2.13E-08). Moreover, these candidate druggable genes exhibited causal effects on both brain structure and neurological diseases. Our integrative analysis provides genetic evidence supporting candidate therapeutic targets for improving cognitive performance and treating neurological diseases. Furthermore, it sheds light on the possible mechanisms by which these targets affect brain structures. This finding suggested that these identified druggable genes, particularly ERBB3 and CYP2D6, hold promise as potential drug targets for enhancing cognitive performance.© 2025. The Author(s).
Antiretroviral therapy (ART) is shifting the primary driver of mortality for people with HIV (PWH) from opportunistic infections to noncommunicable diseases (NCDs). Protein biomarkers differentiating both AIDS-related and NCDs-related deaths from PWH may help early and precise risk prediction and intervention. We conduct a nested case-control study where 126 HIV deaths, 162 age-sex-matched HIV survivors and 152 HIV-negative controls are analyzed with 92 protein biomarkers of the Olink Organ Damage panel by proximity extension assays (PEA). Using LASSO regression, logistic regression, and ROC analysis, twelve proteins are significantly associated with HIV death, of which six (SIRT5, PPM1B, PSMA1, GALNT10, VEGFC, PTN) are specifically associated with NCDs-related death, two (RCOR1, SERPINA9) are specifically associated with AIDS-related death, and four (CA12, CA14, RARRES1, EDIL3) are associated with both. Three of these proteins are replicable in the external validation sample. The adjusted protein panels consisting of significantly associated proteins selected through both LASSO and logistic regression model well predicted NCDs-related death (AUC = 0.970) and AIDS-related death (AUC = 0.960) in PWH. The selected proteins also displayed a significant correlation with traditional biomarkers of NCDs among PWH (P < 0.05). The potential clinical utility of these biomarkers could shed light on pathogenesis of end-stage organ dysfunction in PWH.© 2025. The Author(s).
Protein phosphatase PPM1B, a member of the serine/threonine phosphatase family, has been implicated in various human cancers. In this study, our objective was to investigate the role of PPM1B in GC growth and explore the underlying mechanisms. Our findings revealed that PPM1B expression was downregulated in GC tissues, and higher levels of PPM1B expression were associated with improved overall survival in GC patients. Overexpression of PPM1B significantly inhibited cell proliferation, induced G1 phase cell cycle arrest, and suppressed tumor growth. Conversely, knockdown or knockout of PPM1B yielded opposite effects. Mechanistically, we identified that PPM1B exerted its inhibitory role in GC cell growth and cell cycle regulation through the TRIM25/PPM1B/CDK2 signaling pathway. Specifically, we demonstrated that TRIM25 physically interacts with PPM1B, leading to enhanced degradation of PPM1B and subsequent modulation of CDK2 phosphorylation and GC cell growth. PPM1B emerges as a potential prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target in GC. These findings hold clinical significance by offering opportunities to improve diagnosis and treatment strategies for GC patients. Furthermore, this study provides novel insights into the pathogenesis and progression of GC, expanding our understanding of this disease.© 2025. The Author(s).
Metabolic syndrome heightens cardiovascular disease risk primarily through increased arterial stiffness. We previously demonstrated the involvement of YAP (Yes-associated protein) in high-fat/high-sucrose diet (HFHSD)-induced arterial stiffness via modulation of PPM1B (protein phosphatase Mg2+/Mn2+-dependent 1B)-lysine 63(K63) deubiquitination. In this study, we aimed to elucidate the role and mechanisms underlying PPM1B deubiquitination in HFHSD-induced arterial stiffness.Enzymes governing PPM1B deubiquitination were identified through small interfering RNA (siRNA) screening and mass spectrometry. Glutathione S-transferase pull-down, coimmunoprecipitation, protein purification, and immunofluorescence were used to explore the mechanism underlying PPM1B deubiquitination. Doppler ultrasound was used to evaluate HFHSD-induced arterial stiffness in mice, and telemetry was used to record pulsatile (systolic and diastolic) blood pressure.Smooth muscle cell-specific PPM1B overexpression attenuated HFHSD-induced arterial stiffness in mice in a PPM1B-K326-K63-linked polyubiquitination-dependent manner. Mechanistically, ABRO1 (Abraxas brother 1; a core BRCC36 [BRCA1/BRCA2 (breast cancer type 1/2)-containing complex subunit 36] isopeptidase complex component) directly bound YAP and underwent liquid-liquid phase separation with YAP and PPM1B in a YAP-dependent manner, which in turn promoted PPM1B deubiquitination. Furthermore, smooth muscle cell-specific Abro1-knockout mice and Brcc3-knockout mice showed attenuated HFHSD-induced arterial stiffness and activation of transforming growth factor-β-Smad (mothers against decapentaplegic homolog) signaling.We elucidated the PPM1B deubiquitination mechanisms and highlighted a potential therapeutic target for metabolic syndrome-related arterial stiffness.
Dysregulation of the expression levels and the activity of kinases/phosphatases is an intrinsic hallmark of tumor transformation and progression, as either as a primary cause or consequence. The myosin phosphatase (MP)/protein arginine methyltransferase 5 (PRMT5)/histone (H4) pathway is an oncogenic signaling pathway downregulating the gene expression of tumor suppressors. However, the upstream regulators of the pathway are unknown. We show that the Mg2+-dependent protein phosphatase 1 B (PP2Cb or PPM1B) interacts and regulates MP through the MYPT1 regulatory subunit, and this interplay results in the inactivation of the tumorigenic pathway driven by PRMT5. The phospho-Thr696 inhibitory residues of the MYPT1 regulatory subunit of MP was dephosphorylated by PPM1B. The inhibition of PPM1B by sanguinarine resulted in the deactivation of MP and the increased activity of PRMT5 leading to increased symmetric dimethylation of histone H4 in HeLa cells. The overexpression of the PPM1B had the opposite action. The overexpression of PPM1B decreased the colonization activity of HeLa cells through modulation of MP. Finally, human cervical carcinoma biopsies showed almost complete elimination of PPM1B compared to their healthy control counterparts. The phosphorylation of the inhibitory MYPT1pT696 and the regulatory PRMT5pT80 residues and the symmetric dimethylation of H4 were elevated in the cancer biopsies and it resulted in a decrease in retinoblastoma protein expression. The results indicate a tumor suppressor role of the PPM1B/MP axis via inhibition of PRMT5, thereby regulating gene expression through H4 arginine dimethylation. Collectively, PPM1B is a tumor suppressor and a possible tumor marker for cervical carcinoma.Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565973 is a review article
The ability to tightly regulate and maintain a warm core body temperature (Tb) is a defining characteristic of homeotherms. Moving to a thermally preferred place is an energetically efficient first-line thermoregulatory mechanism. We optimized a mouse binary thermal preference assay, selecting floor plate temperatures of 38°C vs 25°C for males and 39°C vs 30°C for females as having no baseline preference. Warm preference was increased in females, by fasting, and with age. Genetic manipulations that increased warm preference included ablation of uncoupling protein 1 (Ucp1) or of all four adenosine receptors (Adora1, Adora2a, Adora2b, Adora3). Ablation of estrogen receptor α (Esr1) reduced the preference for the warmer side in females but had no effect on preference in males. Mice treated with the β3 adrenergic receptor agonist CL-316243 or the adenosine receptor 3 agonist MRS5698 sought the cooler surface. Thermal preference assays complement the measurement of Tb, providing information about whether a change in Tb reflects a new target or setpoint Tb caused by the intervention, or if the mouse is trying to maintain an unchanged Tb. Thermal preference can be more sensitive than baseline Tb for detecting changes in thermal physiology.
Osteoporosis is a prevalent metabolic bone disease characterized by heterogeneous molecular mechanisms. Emerging evidence implicates that natural killer cells and immunomodulator-related genes (NIRGs) were involved in its pathogenesis; however, systematic exploration of NIRGs remains limited.To explore the role of natural killer (NK) cells and immunomodulator-related differentially expressed genes (NIRDEGs) in osteoporosis.Two osteoporosis datasets (GSE56815 and GSE7429) were integrated after batch effect correction and normalization. Natural killer cell-related genes (NRGs) and immunomodulator-related genes (IRGs) were curated from GeneCards. And NIRDEGs were identified by intersecting co-differentially expressed genes (Co-DEGs) across datasets. Functional enrichment (GO, KEGG, GSEA, GSVA) and immune infiltration analyses were performed. Then, diagnostic models were developed using random forest, support vector machine (SVM), and least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression, validated by receiver operating characteristic curves (ROC), and nomograms. Protein-Protein Interaction (PPI) networks and regulatory networks were generated using bioinformatic tools.Twelve NIRDEGs were identified, and they were enriched in regulation of inflammatory response, myeloid cell homeostasis, negative regulation of DNA-binding transcription factor activity, homeostasis of number of cells, and I-κB kinase/NF-κB signaling. A diagnostic model comprising seven genes (IDO1, PTMA, RAB11FIP1, MYH14, HAMP, HMOX1, and ESR1) exhibited moderate accuracy (0.7 < AUC < 0.9). The protein-level expression of the six candidate genes was further validated in osteoporosis medol rats. Specifically, the IDO1 and PTMA was obviously elevated in the osteoporosis rat model, while the RAB11FIP1, MYH14, HAMP, and HMOX1 was markedly decreased. Immune infiltration analysis revealed distinct patterns of 20 immune cell types between high and low BMD groups, especially monocytes, macrophages, and eosinophils. The PPI network indicated that five key genes were interconnected (IDO1, PTMA, HAMP, HMOX1, and ESR1) and that there were 20 functionally related proteins. Regulatory networks highlighted interactions with 26 transcription factors (TFs), 28 miRNAs, 26 RBPs and 32 therapeutic compounds.This study establishes NIRDEGs as critical players in osteoporosis pathogenesis and provides a clinically translatable seven-gene diagnostic model for early osteoporosis detection. The integration of multi-omic analyses uncovered key pathways, immune dynamics, and regulatory networks. These findings provide novel insights into immune-mediated mechanisms and therapeutic targets for osteoporosis management.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Phthalate esters are pervasive endocrine-disrupting chemicals associated with metabolic disorders, but their contribution to metabolic-associated fatty liver disease (MAFLD) remains unclear. We investigated shared targets and pathways linking eight phthalate-related compounds to MAFLD using network toxicology, transcriptomic data mining, molecular docking, and cellular validation. Integrated analysis identified 75 predicted phthalate-related targets, including 41 MAFLD-associated genes enriched in lipid metabolism and inflammatory pathways. Cross-analysis of three GEO datasets prioritized 14 candidate genes, with PPARG, PTGS2, ESR1, PPARA, and BCL2 showing high network centrality. Molecular docking predicted favorable interactions between the tested compounds and candidate proteins, with monobenzyl phthalate (MBeP) showing the highest predicted affinity. In palmitic acid-oleic acid (PA-OA) -treated HepG2 cells, MBeP increased lipid accumulation, reactive oxygen species generation, apoptosis, and mitochondrial membrane depolarization and altered selected candidate genes. In primary mouse hepatocytes, MBeP similarly increased lipid accumulation and reactive oxygen species generation and altered PTGS2 and PPARA protein expression. These findings identify candidate targets and pathways potentially involved in MBeP-associated hepatic lipid dysregulation and support further mechanistic investigation of phthalate-related effects in MAFLD.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Triclosan (TCS), a widely used antimicrobial agent, is persistently detected in aquatic environments (up to 1.14 μM in pore water) and human matrices, raising concerns about its developmental toxicity. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying TCS-induced cardiac malformations remain largely unresolved. Here, we report that exposure of zebrafish embryos to TCS at concentrations including environmentally relevant levels (62.5 nM to 1 μM) induced cardiac morphological abnormalities and cardiomyocyte apoptosis, accompanied by transcriptomic alterations in genes associated with cardiac development and apoptosis. Mechanistic investigations revealed that TCS activated ERα and the membrane estrogen receptor GPER, resulting in sustained ERK1/2 phosphorylation. Pharmacological blockade of ER or ERK signaling, as well as genetic knockdown of esr1/esr2a, effectively rescued TCS-induced cardiac malformations and apoptotic responses, supporting the involvement of ER-ERK signaling in TCS-associated cardiac abnormalities. Notably, ER-ERK activation triggered profound mitochondrial dysfunction, characterized by excessive mitochondrial ROS generation, dissipation of mitochondrial membrane potential, and ultrastructural mitochondrial damage, ultimately leading to cleaved-caspase-3-dependent apoptosis. The mitochondrial-targeted antioxidant MitoQ significantly alleviated ROS generation, mitochondrial injury, and cardiac defects. Furthermore, molecular docking analysis supported strong binding affinities between TCS and key components of the ER-ERK signaling axis, suggesting potential molecular interactions. Overall, this study identifies a previously unrecognized ER-ERK-mitochondrial apoptotic pathway as a central mechanism driving TCS-induced cardiac developmental toxicity, providing mechanistic insight into the cardiovascular developmental risks posed by environmental endocrine disruptors.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42560566 is a review article
Urination, a vital and conserved process of emptying urine from the urinary bladder in mammals, requires precise coordination between the bladder and external urethral sphincter (EUS) that is tightly controlled by a complex neural network. However, the specific subpopulation of neurons that accounts for such coordination remains unidentified, limiting the development of target-specific therapies for certain urination disorders, for example, detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia. Here, we find that cells expressing estrogen receptor 1 (ESR1+) in the pontine micturition center (PMC) initiate voiding when activated and suspend ongoing voiding when suppressed, each at 100% reliability. Transection of the pelvic nerve does not impair PMCESR1+ neurons' control of the EUS via the pudendal nerve, whereas transection of the pudendal nerve does not impair their control of the bladder via the pelvic nerve. Anatomically, PMCESR1+ neurons consist of three distinct spinal-projection-based subpopulations: one targeting the sacral parasympathetic nucleus, one innervating the dorsal gray commissure, and a third that projects to both regions, thereby enforcing the coordination of bladder contraction and sphincter relaxation in a rigid temporal sequence. Thus, we identify a cell type in the brainstem that controls the bladder-urethra coordination for urination.© 2024, Li et al.
Plastic additives are pervasive pollutants that readily leach into water, affecting human health; however, their toxicological risk assessment remains limited. This study used network toxicology to identify disease-associated common targets in plastic additives, including benzotriazole, bisphenol A, 2,4-Di-tert-butylphenol, mirex, diphenyl ether, bisphenol S, dibutyl phthalate, PFNA, and PFBS. The core targets identified using network toxicology for these plastic additives were AKT1, PTGS2, BCL2, ESR1, and GSK3B. In addition, an integrated in silico toxicity assessment of selected plastic additives using molecular docking, MM/GBSA analysis, and molecular dynamics simulation was performed to assess neurotoxicity, reproductive toxicity, and carcinogenic potential. Molecular docking revealed the high-scoring docked complexes as PTGS2-benzotriazole (-5.047 kcal/mol), PTGS2-bisphenol A (-5.264 kcal/mol), PTGS2-diphenyl ether (-5.078 kcal/mol), PTGS2-bisphenol S (-5.519 kcal/mol), PTGS2-2,4-di-tert-butylphenol (-5.565 kcal/mol), ESR1-benzotriazole (-5.339 kcal/mol), and ESR1-2,4-di-tert-butylphenol (-5.626 kcal/mol). The stability of highly interacting complexes was then assessed through MM/GBSA calculations and molecular dynamics simulations. A more negative ΔGBind score in MM/GBSA analysis indicated a stronger and more favourable interaction. In silico analysis of plastic additive-biological target interactions identified potential carcinogenic, reproductive, and neurological health hazards and revealed key molecular pathways underlying plastic additive-induced toxicity. Further in vitro/in vivo studies are required to validate these computational findings.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Breast cancer metastasis remains the leading cause of disease-related mortality, yet the regulatory mechanisms enabling tumor cells to adapt to distant tissue environments remain poorly defined. Here, we generated a multi-omic resource integrating transcriptomic (RNA-seq) and chromatin accessibility (ATAC-seq) profiles from estrogen receptor-positive primary breast tumors and matched liver and lung metastases obtained from the same patients, including diagnostic and postmortem specimens. This design enabled direct intra-patient comparisons of primary and metastatic regulatory landscapes. We identified extensive reprogramming of chromatin accessibility and gene expression in metastatic lesions relative to primary tumors, indicating widespread regulatory remodeling. Peak-to-gene correlation analysis uncovered thousands of metastasis-associated enhancer-gene linkages, with metastatic samples exhibiting significantly increased enhancer connectivity. These rewired enhancer networks preferentially targeted clinically relevant genes, including RIPK4 , ISYNA1, and RAB3D, which were associated with three or more enhancers in metastases but not in primary tumors. Furthermore, ATAC-seq footprinting combined with gene expression analysis revealed distinct, tissue-specific transcription factor activity profiles in liver and lung metastases, including ESR1, that were not explained by transcription factor expression levels alone. Together, these data provide a resource of metastasis-specific regulatory elements and their cognate transcription factors, revealing new regulatory vulnerabilities that may be therapeutically exploitable. Implications: These findings support a model in which breast cancer metastasis is driven by enhancer regulatory reprogramming, allowing tumor cells to adapt to a variety of microenvironments.
To investigate the predictive value of peripheral blood cfDNA breast cancer gene mutation profiling for postoperative pathological malignancy in BI-RADS 4 breast nodules.Clinical data from 212 patients with BI-RADS 4 breast nodules at our hospital from January 2020 to January 2024 were retrospectively collected. Patients were divided into benign group (128 cases) and malignant group (84 cases) according to postoperative pathological results. Peripheral venous blood was collected within 1 week before surgery, cfDNA was extracted and targeted next-generation sequencing (NGS, coverage depth 500-1,000×) of 49 breast cancer-related genes was performed. cfDNA concentration, tumor mutation burden (TMB), mutation allele frequency (MAF), gene-specific mutation detection rates (BRCA1, TP53, ESR1, ERBB2, PIK3CA, etc.), and a composite Gene Mutation Score (GMS) were analyzed. Multivariate logistic regression analysis was used to identify independent predictors of postoperative pathological malignancy, and ROC curves were plotted to evaluate predictive efficacy.The malignant group had higher cfDNA concentration (14.3 ± 5.8 vs. 8.6 ± 3.2 ng/mL, P < 0.001) and TMB [2.86 (1.54,4.72) vs. 0.42 (0.28,0.68) mut/Mb, P < 0.001] than the benign group, while overall mutation detection rate (2.18% ± 0.63% vs. 2.84% ± 0.52%, P < 0.001), mutation coverage in promoter/regulatory regions of key driver genes (36.2 ± 9.5 vs. 45.6 ± 8.3 RPK, P < 0.001), and GMS (0.95 ± 0.74 vs. 1.82 ± 0.68, P < 0.001) were lower in the malignant group, indicating distinct mutation patterns. Mutation rates in BRCA1, TP53, ESR1, and ERBB2 in the malignant group were significantly higher than those in the benign group (P < 0.001). G3 grade patients had higher TMB and lower GMS, BRCA1/TP53 MAF, and regulatory region coverage than G1/G2 grade patients (P < 0.05). Multivariate logistic regression analysis showed that age (OR = 1.058, 95%CI: 1.021-1.096), BI-RADS classification (OR = 2.874, 95%CI: 1.643-5.027), TMB (OR = 4.326, 95%CI: 2.214-8.452), and GMS (OR = 0.178, 95%CI: 0.082-0.388) were independent predictors of postoperative pathological malignancy (P < 0.05). The combined model (age + BI-RADS classification + TMB + GMS) had an AUC of 0.923 (95%CI: 0.884-0.962), sensitivity of 88.1%, specificity of 89.1%, positive predictive value of 84.1%, and negative predictive value of 91.8%, superior to single indicators (P < 0.001).cfDNA breast cancer gene mutation profiling has good predictive value for postoperative pathological malignancy in BI-RADS 4 breast nodules, with TMB and GMS being independent predictors. The combined model integrating clinical, imaging, and gene mutation features demonstrates excellent predictive efficacy and can provide a non-invasive, accurate assessment tool for preoperative risk stratification of BI-RADS 4 lesions.Copyright © 2026 Lyu, Duan, Sheng, Liu and Luo.
This study aimed to investigate the role of the STAT3/POSTN/GSTP1/JNK axis in ferroptosis and extracellular matrix (ECM) metabolic imbalance in nucleus pulposus cells (NPCs) during intervertebral disc degeneration (IDD) and to explore therapeutic strategies targeting this axis.Using integrated multiomics sequencing, transcriptional regulation assays (chromatin immunoprecipitation, dual‑luciferase reporter), protein interaction analysis (CoIP), and other molecular biology approaches, we systematically elucidated the regulatory role of the STAT3/POSTN/GSTP1/JNK axis in ferroptosis of NPCs during IDD. Functional validation was performed in POSTN‑edited cell and rat models as well as in a needle‑puncture‑ induced rat IDD model. A small‑molecule candidate targeting this axis was identified through virtual screening, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics simulations.Periostin (POSTN) expression increased during ferroptosis and induced ferroptosis and ECM metabolic imbalance in NPCs in a concentration- and time-dependent manner. STAT3 was identified as a transcriptional regulator of POSTN and functionally coupled with POSTN to form a self-amplifying positive feedback loop, accelerating ferroptosis progression. Furthermore, POSTN impaired the binding of the GSTP1/JNK complex, leading to the depletion of cellular glutathione. Chemical screening identified pristimerin (PN) as a potential GSTP1-targeting compound, targeting the STAT3/POSTN/GSTP1/JNK axis and delaying IDD progression.This study identified the important role of the STAT3/POSTN/GSTP1/JNK axis in regulating ferroptosis and ECM metabolism in NPCs and highlighted PN as a promising candidate therapeutic agent for IDD. These findings provide new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying IDD and offer new targeted therapeutic avenues for IDD.
Periodontitis is a prevalent inflammatory disease influenced by both genetic and environmental factors. Among genetic determinants, polymorphisms in oxidative stress-related g e n e s - p a r t i c u l a r l y GSTM1, GSTT1, and GSTP1 (rs1695)-have been suggested as contributors to disease susceptibility. This systematic review and meta-analysis aimed to evaluate the association between GSTM1, GSTT1, and GSTP1 (rs1695) gene polymorphisms and the risk of periodontitis.Following PRISMA 2020 guidelines, a comprehensive literature search was conducted in four databases (PubMed, Scopus, Web of Science, and Google Scholar) from inception to October 2025 for eligible case‒control studies. Pooled odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated. Heterogeneity was assessed using I2 and Q tests (with P-values), and publication bias was evaluated using Egger's test and funnel plots. Evidence certainty was assessed with GRADE.Seven studies with 1,525 participants were included. The GSTM1-null polymorphism was significantly associated with periodontitis (OR=2.94, 95% CI: 1.13-7.63, I2=93.5%) in subgroup analyses, particularly among Asians, in larger studies, and among heavy smokers. GSTT1-null polymorphism showed no significant effect (OR=0.64, 95% CI: 0.38-1.09, I2=69.7%). Initial pooled analyses indicated significant associations across all GSTP1 (rs1695) genetic models; however, these associations were not robust and lost statistical significance after exclusion of a study that deviated from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. No publication bias was detected.This meta-analysis supports a potential role for the GSTM1-null polymorphism in increasing susceptibility to periodontitis. Associations for GSTP1 (rs1695) were less consistent and sensitive to study quality, while the GSTT1-null polymorphism showed no clear effect. According to GRADE, the certainty of evidence was moderate for GSTM1 and low for GSTT1 and GSTP1; the results are therefore suggestive and require confirmation in larger multi-ethnic studies.© 2026 The Author(s).
This study aimed to clarify the incidence of anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity (ACT) and identify its clinical and candidate genetic risk factors in Chinese early-stage breast cancer patients, so as to provide evidence for clinical risk assessment and individualized cardiac protection.This study included 119 patients who received anthracycline-based chemotherapy. Cardiac function was assessed via echocardiography at baseline, post-chemotherapy, and at one-year follow-up. Five candidate SNPs (CBR3 rs1056892, GSTP1 rs1695, SLC28A3 rs7853758, ABCB1 rs1045642, ABCC2 rs8187710) were genotyped to analyze their association with ACT.The incidence of ACT was 15.1% (18/119). No significant association was found between any of the five genotyped SNPs and the development of ACT (all p > 0.05). Multivariate logistic regression analysis identified older age, higher cumulative anthracycline dose, and the use of HER2-targeted antibodies (trastuzumab/pertuzumab) as independent clinical risk factors for ACT.In Chinese early-stage breast cancer patients, ACT is significantly associated with clinical risk factors rather than the selected candidate genetic polymorphisms. These findings support targeted cardiac monitoring and optimized treatment strategies for high-risk patients to reduce the occurrence of anthracycline-related cardiac injury.
Chemotherapy-related toxicities remain a major barrier to optimal outcomes in pediatric cancer care in low-resource settings. Genetic variation in drug-metabolizing and transport pathways contributes to interindividual differences in toxicity risk; however, pharmacogenomic data from African pediatric populations are limited. This study assessed the distribution of selected pharmacogenomic variants and chemotherapy-related toxicities profiles in Tanzanian children with cancer.A cross-sectional study was conducted among 155 pediatric patients with cancer (1-17 years) receiving chemotherapy at Bugando Medical Centre, Tanzania. Clinical data, clinician-reported toxicities, and patient-reported outcomes were collected. Eleven pharmacogenomic variants in genes involved in drug metabolism, transport, and detoxification pathways (CYP3A5, SLC19A1, TPMT, NUDT15, GSTP1, NCF4, CYBA, and CEP72), selected based on prior evidence of functional relevance and reported associations with chemotherapy response, were genotyped using the Agena MassARRAY® platform. Toxicities were graded using CTCAE version 5.0.Hematologic toxicities, including anemia (50.3%) and leukopenia (37.4%), and mucocutaneous toxicities such as alopecia (38.1%) and oral ulcers (24.5%) were common. Reduced muscle strength was observed in 78.1% of patients. Reduced-function CYP3A5 variants were frequent (CYP3A5*6: 38.1%; CYP3A5*3: 27.7%). Variants in GSTP1 rs1695 (MAF 0.46), CYBA rs4673 (MAF 0.44), and SLC19A1 rs1051296 (MAF 0.49) demonstrated substantial variability, indicating potential interindividual differences in drug metabolism and transport. However, no genotype-toxicity associations were assessed in this study.This study provides baseline data on pharmacogenomic variability among Tanzanian pediatric patients with cancer. The observed genetic diversity in pharmacogenes involved in drug metabolism and transport may be relevant to variability in chemotherapy-related toxicities, as reported in previous studies. These findings highlight the need for further research to evaluate genotype-toxicity relationships and to inform the future integration of pharmacogenomics into pediatric oncology care in resource-limited settings.Copyright © 2026 Katabalo, Fundo, Minja, Kashaigiri, Mwita, Liwa, Schroeder and Kidenya.
While mitochondrial dysfunction and immune cell dysregulation have been established as important contributors to the pathogenesis of osteosarcoma (OS), the prognostic value of mitochondria-related genes (MRGs) and immune-related genes (IRGs) in OS remains poorly understood.Data were obtained from public databases. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and key module genes were identified viadifferential expression analysis and weighted gene co-expression network analysis, respectively. Candidate genes of interest were identified by intersecting key module genes, DEGs, MRGs, and IRGs. Then, candidate genes were screened using regression analysis and proportional hazards assumption testing to identify prognostic genes. A risk model was then constructed in the TARGET-OS dataset and validated in GSE16091. Independent prognostic, immune infiltration, and gene expression analyses were conducted. In addition, single-cell analysis was performed to identify key cell populations, and pseudotime analysis as well as cell communication network construction were carried out. Finally, the expression patterns of selected prognostic genes were additionally validated via reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), and the functional role of protein kinase Cα (PRKCA) in osteosarcoma cell proliferation, migration, and invasion was evaluated in vitro.Glutathione S-transferase Pi-1 (GSTP1), catalase (CAT), TNFSF10, and PRKCA were identified as mitochondria- and immunity-related prognostic genes in OS and were used to construct a risk model. The risk model was able to effectively predict the survival of patients with OS. A nomogram based on the identified prognostic genes additionally exhibited excellent performance when predicting OS patient survival. Significant differences in the abundance of 14 immune cell types and 8 immune checkpoint molecules were noted between the high-risk and low-risk groups. Single-cell analyses were then conducted to annotate 10 cell types, and M1 macrophages were identified as a potentially relevant cell population in the OS microenvironment. During M1 macrophage differentiation, initial reductions in CAT and PRKCA expression were noted, followed by subsequent increases and final decreases. In contrast, the expression of GSTP1 and TNFSF10 in these cells first rose and then declined. Furthermore, PRKCA was selected for further in vitro analyses, which revealed that it can enhance the invasion, migration, and proliferation of OS cells.This study identified GSTP1, CAT, TNFSF10, and PRKCA as prognostic genes associated with mitochondrial and immune function in OS, with in vitro evidence providing direct support for the potential functional role of PRKCA in OS progression. These findings highlight a new avenue for predicting clinical prognosis in OS and may provide a basis for future studies of putative therapeutic targets.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Background: The main aim of this study was to assess the effects of short-term N-acetylcysteine (NAC) supplementation on concentrations of homocysteine (Hcy) and reduced glutathione (rGSH), blood lipid profile and liver enzyme activities in endurance-trained adults, and to determine whether these effects are modified by methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) C677T and glutathione S-transferase Pi 1 (GSTP1) A313G. Methods: A total of 56 males and 21 females completed a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover trial. Participants received 1200 mg of NAC or a placebo for seven days in a crossover design. Serum Hcy and plasma rGSH concentrations were assessed using dedicated biochemical assays, while blood lipid profile and liver enzyme activities were measured using the biochemical analyzer Konelab 20i. Genotyping was conducted using TaqMan probes. A series of within-subject/between-subject repeated-measures analysis of variance (ANOVA) within a general linear model framework were performed to compare Hcy, rGSH, blood lipid profile and liver enzymes activities before and after the intervention. Results: Hcy concentrations significantly decreased following NAC supplementation (18.58 ± 5.45 µmol/L vs. 16.51 ± 4.97 µmol/L; p = 0.009), although subgroup analysis indicated that the decrease was significant only among females (15.40 ± 4.96 µmol/L vs. 13.60 ± 3.68 µmol/L; p = 0.002) without any significant effect among males. We did not observe any significant changes in rGSH, lipid profile, or liver enzyme activities. There was no interaction between NAC supplementation, MTHFR and GSTP1 genotypes and the changes noted in the parameters we analyzed. Conclusions: In conclusion, short-term NAC supplementation may reduce circulating Hcy concentrations in endurance-trained adults, particularly in females. No consistent effects were observed for rGSH, lipid profile, or liver enzyme activities.
Objective: To investigate the diagnostic value of plasma circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) methylation of glutathione S-transferase P1 (GSTP1) and secreted frizzled-related protein 2 (SFRP2) for early hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), and to evaluate a multimodal model integrating smoking history, nodule size, alpha-fetoprotein (AFP), and protein induced by vitamin K absence-Ⅱ (PIVKA-Ⅱ). Methods: This single-center retrospective case-control study enrolled 180 patients with HCC or liver cirrhosis at the Affiliated Hospital of Shaanxi University of Chinese Medicine from May 2023 to December 2024, with patients with cirrhosis serving as disease controls. The training set included 63 HCC patients and 63 cirrhosis patients, and the validation set included 26 HCC patients and 28 cirrhosis patients. Baseline clinical data, tumor biomarkers, liver function parameters, coagulation indices, imaging characteristics, and plasma ctDNA GSTP1/SFRP2 methylation levels detected by methylation-specific quantitative PCR (MS-qPCR) were collected. Logistic regression was used to identify independent risk factors and construct a multimodal diagnostic model. Model performance was evaluated using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves, calibration curves, confusion matrix analysis, and decision curve analysis (DCA). Result: GSTP1 methylation was higher in the HCC group than in the cirrhosis group [0.87 (0.75, 0.97) vs. 0.76 (0.54, 0.86); U=-3.842, P<0.001], and SFRP2 methylation was also higher [0.83 (0.70, 0.94) vs. 0.71 (0.60, 0.83); U=-3.423, P<0.001]. Multivariate logistic regression identified smoking history (OR=18.84, 95%CI: 2.82-126.10), nodule diameter (OR=33.40, 95%CI: 2.50-446.58), AFP (OR=40.03, 95%CI: 7.39-216.95), PIVKA-Ⅱ (OR=6.18, 95%CI: 1.34-28.39), and GSTP1/SFRP2 methylation (OR=1.50/2.54) as independent risk factors for HCC. The multimodal model achieved AUCs of 0.962 and 0.955 in the training and validation sets, respectively, with positive predictive accuracies of 0.891 and 0.868, outperforming single-factor diagnostic methods. In conclusion, GSTP1 and SFRP2 methylation levels were significantly higher in the HCC group than in the cirrhosis group, and both were independent risk factors for HCC, indicating potential for early diagnosis. The multimodal model integrating ctDNA methylation and clinicoradiological indicators achieved AUCs of 0.962 and 0.955 in the training and validation sets, with positive predictive accuracies of 0.891 and 0.868, respectively. Conclusion: DCA showed greater net benefit than any single indicator, suggesting that this model could improve diagnostic performance for early HCC and provide a new strategy for liver cancer screening.
Chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN) is a common, dose-limiting toxicity of cancer treatment, yet reliable biomarkers to predict individual susceptibility remain lacking. Germline genetic variation has been widely investigated as a potential contributor to CIPN risk; however, the consistency and clinical utility of these associations remain unclear. We performed a systematic review of genetic association studies evaluating CIPN across neurotoxic chemotherapies. PubMed, Embase, Web of Science, and the Cochrane Library were searched (April 2025) for human studies assessing germline variants in relation to clinician- or patient-reported CIPN. Eligible studies were identified in four major drug classes: vincristine, taxanes, platinum agents, and bortezomib. Study characteristics, phenotyping approaches, ancestry, and variant-level data were extracted, and study quality was assessed using Q-Genie. Meta-analysis was not performed due to substantial heterogeneity in study design and outcome measures. 72 studies were included, predominantly involving cohorts of European ancestry. The most consistently replicated loci were CEP72 and ETAA1 for vincristine-induced neuropathy; EPHA5, FGD4, and FZD3 for taxane-induced neuropathy; and ABC transporter genes and GSTP1 for platinum-induced neuropathy. For bortezomib, associations involving TRPV1, DNA repair pathways, and inflammatory signalling showed emerging but largely non-replicated evidence. Across studies, marked heterogeneity in CIPN definitions, phenotyping instruments, statistical approaches, and effect allele reporting limited comparability and reproducibility. Collectively, these findings indicate that current pharmacogenomic approaches to CIPN are constrained by poor replication, population bias, and inconsistent methodology, which hinder translation into clinically actionable biomarkers. Future progress will require harmonised phenotyping, multi-ancestry genome-wide studies, and integration of functional validation to enable robust risk stratification and precision oncology approaches to CIPN.Identifier PROSPERO [CRD42025635757].Copyright © 2026 Maganti, Rankothge, Sakadales, Kok, Britton, Rao, Shatunova, Shimell, Zambrano, Park, Schweitzer, Laakso, Yengo, Vetter and Starobova.
Ischemic stroke induces oxidative stress, neuroinflammation, neuronal death, and synaptic dysfunction, leading to persistent motor and cognitive deficits. The human dental pulp stem cell (hDPSC) secretome is a promising cell-free therapeutic candidate containing neurotrophic, antioxidant, and immunomodulatory factors. Here, we investigated its therapeutic effects in a photothrombotic mouse model of ischemic stroke and CoCl2-induced hypoxic BV2 microglial cells. Proteomic profiling identified antioxidant-associated proteins, including SOD2, GSR, and GSTP1, and microglial phenotype-related candidates, including GRN, CSF1, and LRP1. hDPSC secretome treatment reduced stroke-induced infarct volume and attenuated stroke-increased neuronal apoptosis, neuronal ROS accumulation, and NF-κB-associated inflammatory signaling in the cortex and hippocampus. It also shifted microglial marker expression toward an M2-associated profile and improved stroke-impaired hippocampal neurogenesis, vascular remodeling, and synaptic organization. Proteomic analyses further identified coordinated changes in pathways related to oxidative phosphorylation, inflammatory responses, calcium signaling, SNARE-associated vesicular transport, and ROBO-Rho-associated cytoskeletal remodeling. These molecular and cellular changes were associated with improved motor coordination, spatial learning and memory, contextual memory, and anxiety-like behavior. These findings support the hDPSC secretome as a cell-free therapeutic candidate for post-stroke functional recovery linked to redox, inflammatory, neurovascular, and synaptic remodeling.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42488340 is a review article
Atrial fibrillation (AF) is a common arrhythmia affecting millions of patients globally. While epigenetic modifications play a significant role in cardiovascular diseases, their contribution to AF remains incompletely understood. Annexin A4 (ANXA4), a calcium-dependent phospholipid-binding protein, is implicated in inflammation and immune-mediated diseases, but its epigenetic regulation and mechanistic role in AF pathogenesis have not been systematically explored.This study employed a multi-omics approach, integrating Mendelian randomization (MR), DNA methylation quantitative trait loci (mQTL)-mediated analysis, bulk and single-cell transcriptomics, and clinical validation. Two-sample MR utilized plasma proteome quantitative trait loci data from 4759 Icelandic individuals and AF genome-wide association study summary statistics from FinnGen and OpenGWAS databases. mQTL-based mediation analysis leveraged data from 27,750 individuals, and ANXA4 promoter methylation in atrial tissue was assessed in the GSE62727 dataset. Clinical validation involved qPCR for ANXA4 mRNA and CpG sites cg11942603 and cg22792910 in peripheral blood from 130 participants (77 AF patients and 53 sinus rhythm controls). Additionally, ANXA4 protein levels in peripheral blood leukocytes were analyzed using Western Blotting. Machine learning models were used to assess diagnostic performance, and logistic regression analyzed clinical associations.MR analysis provided evidence consistent with genetically predicted higher ANXA4 levels increasing AF risk (odds ratio = 1.17, 95% CI 1.11-1.23, P = 1.73 × 10-10), with Bayesian colocalization supporting a shared genetic signal at rs17037076. mQTL-based mediation analysis indicated that hypomethylation at cg11942603 and cg22792910 significantly mediated the association between ANXA4 and AF. Peripheral blood and atrial tissue analyses confirmed lower methylation levels at cg11942603 in AF patients. qPCR confirmed significantly elevated ANXA4 mRNA expression in the peripheral blood of AF patients. Western Blot analysis further revealed a significant increase in intracellular ANXA4 protein levels within peripheral blood leukocytes of AF patients (P = 0.01). Single-cell RNA sequencing showed higher ANXA4 expression across various immune cell types in AF. Larger left atrial diameter, log-transformed NT-proBNP, and ANXA4 mRNA were independently associated with AF, while higher ANXA4 methylation was associated with lower odds of AF. Machine learning models demonstrated high discriminative ability for AF diagnosis (AUC 0.949-0.962).Our multi-omics approach provides evidence that hypomethylation at specific ANXA4 CpG sites is associated with increased gene expression and elevated AF risk. Increased ANXA4 mRNA and protein levels are associated with an enhanced immune response, particularly in myeloid cells, suggesting its potential as a diagnostic candidate to differentiate AF from sinus rhythm. Machine learning models further support the predictive value of ANXA4. Furthermore, decreased ANXA4 methylation levels were associated with TET2 upregulation. ANXA4 expression and promoter methylation may serve as potential diagnostic indicators and candidate targets for future precision medicine strategies in AF.© 2026. The Author(s).
Schizophrenia is a heterogeneous psychiatric disorder with diverse clinical manifestations and complex biological mechanisms, in which age-at-onset (AAO) critically influences disease trajectory. Patients with early-onset schizophrenia (EOS; AAO < 18 years) present with more pronounced neurodevelopmental deficits and poorer long-term outcomes compared to adult-onset (AOS) cases. Previous genetic research on AAO and EOS has primarily focused on candidate genes and genome-wide association studies (GWAS). DNA methylation, an epigenetic mechanism influenced by the interplay between environmental and genetic factors, remains understudied, especially in the Chinese population. Peripheral blood DNA from 120 schizophrenia patients (49 EOS, 71 AOS) was analyzed using the Infinium MethylationEPIC v2.0 array. Differential methylated analyses were conducted for both EOS-AOS dichotomous comparison and continuous AAO, with stringent adjustment for age, sex, smoking, and estimated cell proportions. At a suggestive significance threshold (p < 5 × 10-5), we identified 49 differentially methylated positions (DMPs) for EOS-AOS and 126 DMPs for AAO. Genes annotated to the identified DMPs included known schizophrenia and EOS-associated loci (such as ORMDL1, ANXA4, and TRRAP), as well as novel regions linked to cognitive function and neurodevelopment (such as AKAP8L, GPRC5C, and C4orf45). Enrichment analysis implicated key biological processes, including kinase signaling, cell cycle regulation, and microRNA pathways involved in apoptosis and oncogenesis. This study reveals novel differential DNA methylation patterns associated with EOS in the Chinese population and identifies key biological pathways potentially underlying its pathogenesis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Previous studies have illuminated a significant genetic component in motor neuron disease (MND) pathogenesis, with several causative genes identified. However, a substantial proportion of MND cases remain genetically unexplained, particularly regarding the comprehensive contribution of rare, high-impact variants across the exome.Leveraging whole-exome sequencing data from nearly half a million UK Biobank participants, we systematically investigated the association between high-confidence protein-truncating variants (HC PTVs) and MND risk in a Caucasian subset. Our large-scale gene-based association analysis utilized REGENIE software and LOFTEE-defined HC PTVs.We identified significant preliminary associations between HC PTVs in 14 genes and an increased risk of MND. Notably, while NEK1 has been previously implicated in ALS, the remaining 13 genes (BLVRB, KLHL32, RIMS2, DYDC2, DCBLD1, ANXA4, COMP, TRIM42, ANO4, NFX1, CFAP206, CKAP2L, and ANGPTL4) show preliminary associations as novel candidate loci for the disease. Functional enrichment analyses further indicated that these genes are significantly involved in critical biological pathways, including collagen-containing extracellular matrix organization and ciliary function. Furthermore, tissue specificity analysis highlighted a strong enrichment of these genes' expression in brain regions, with the hypothalamus showing the highest specificity.These findings suggest a potential expansion of the known genetic landscape of MND, and highlight novel biological pathways implicated in its pathogenesis. This study underscores the power of large-scale population genetics in uncovering critical disease mechanisms and offers new avenues for mechanistic research and therapeutic development for MND, pending independent validation.Copyright © 2026 Hu, Wan, Yan, Fan and Liu.
Background/Objectives: Urothelial carcinoma of the bladder (UCC) is a leading cause of cancer-related death globally. Given that urine is in direct contact with the tumor, it represents a highly valuable source for non-invasive molecular analysis. Methods: This study utilized liquid biopsies from 41 UCC patients and 27 non-cancerous hematuria controls to identify novel diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers via proteomic and transcriptomic analysis. Results: Urine proved to be a reliable source, yielding a mean tumor cell fraction of 0.605 (95% CI: 0.505-0.705). We identified 11 genes with concurrent alteration at both the urinary protein and mRNA levels. Notably, four upregulated markers, CYTB, C1QC, SBP1, and ANXA4, demonstrated strong diagnostic potential, with AUC values greater than 0.70. CYTB and ANXA4 were detectable even in early-stage UCC (stages Cis, I, and II). Furthermore, we identified two proteins, CATC and SPB10, that were markedly upregulated in recurrent UCC and correlated with poor overall survival, positioning them as potential prognostic markers for recurrence risk. Conclusions: This study confirms the utility of urine as a reliable medium for detecting UCC tumor cells, offering promising markers for both early-stage diagnosis and predicting NMIBC recurrence.
Chronic wounds are injuries that significantly affect 2 % of the global population, with a 25$ billion USD annual quota for the US healthcare system, making cost-effective solutions necessary. Chronic wounds become stalled due to chronic inflammation. Annexins have been shown to modulate inflammation and migration in macrophages and fibroblasts, respectively, important steps during wound healing. Also, Pangasius hypophthalmus ANXA4 (PH-ANXA4) wound healing potential was previously prospected due to its structural similarity to its human counterpart. In this study, the potential of recombinant PH-ANXA4 (rPH-ANXA4) as a wound healing promoter is explored. First, its recombinant production using Pichia pastoris was assessed. Furthermore, its biochemical activity was studied through isothermal titration calorimetry (ITC) and differential scanning calorimetry (DSC). In vitro wound healing potential was evaluated by fibroblast (HDFa) cell migration after scratch, and by measuring nitric oxide production in murine macrophages (RAW 267.4). Regarding production, the established process yielded 6 mg with 95 % purity. ITC revealed a Ca2+-dependent binding of rPH-ANXA4 to negatively charged multilamellar vesicles (MLVs). DSC showed that Ca2+-dependent interaction protects MLVs from Ca2+ destabilization. Moreover, in vitro analysis showed that rPH-ANXA4 reduced nitric oxide production by up to 70 % in macrophages, while enhancing fibroblast migration compared to the positive control (Centella asiatica 10 μg/mL) at low doses (0.78 and 1.56 μg/mL). The obtained findings shed light on the preliminary potential of rPH-ANXA4 to be characterized as a bioactive in wound-healing formulations.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Ovarian cancer is a leading cause of gynecologic cancer-related deaths, with cisplatin (DDP) resistance posing a significant challenge to effective treatment. Understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying DDP resistance is crucial for developing new therapeutic strategies.This study aimed to explore the molecular mechanisms of DDP resistance in ovarian cancer, focusing on identifying key genes involved in this process.Differential gene expression analysis was conducted using three GEO datasets to identify genes associated with DDP resistance in ovarian cancer cells. Functional enrichment analysis was performed to elucidate the biological pathways involved. ANXA4 was identified as a key gene, and its role was further investigated through in vitro experiments, including gene silencing and overexpression assays, to assess its impact on cell viability, apoptosis, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) markers.A total of 33 common differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified, with ANXA4 significantly upregulated in DDP-resistant ovarian cancer cells. Functional analysis revealed that these DEGs, including ANXA4, were involved in pathways related to cell survival, proliferation, and apoptosis. In vitro experiments showed that silencing ANXA4 decreased cell viability, increased apoptosis, and reversed EMT markers in DDP-resistant cells. Conversely, ANXA4 overexpression enhanced resistance to DDP, as evidenced by increased cell viability, reduced apoptosis, and upregulation of EMT markers.ANXA4 plays a critical role in promoting DDP resistance in ovarian cancer by enhancing cell survival, inhibiting apoptosis, and maintaining EMT characteristics. Targeting ANXA4 may offer a novel therapeutic strategy to overcome chemoresistance and improve treatment outcomes in patients with ovarian cancer. Future studies should validate these findings in vivo and explore the precise molecular mechanisms by which ANXA4 modulates DDP resistance.© 2025 Wang and Xie.
Direct reprogramming of somatic cells into induced neural stem cells (iNSCs) holds strong potential for regenerative medicine, especially in large animal models like pigs, which are crucial for translational and preclinical research. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying porcine fibroblast-to-iNSC reprogramming and subsequent differentiation remain poorly understood at the proteomic level.To map the proteomic landscapes associated with reprogramming and differentiation, we performed unbiased label-free discovery proteomics (nano-LC-MS/MS) and targeted SWATH-MS quantification. Proteomes of porcine tail fibroblasts (PTFs; passage 3), two porcine iNSC lines (piNSCs; VSMUi002-B and VSMUi002-E, passage 20), and their differentiated progeny (piNSCs-NGs; VSMUi002-B-NGs and VSMUi002-E-NGs, representing piNSCs at passage 20 cultured for an additional 14 days under differentiation conditions) were compared. Two previously established piNSC lines (VSMUi002-B and VSMUi002-E), generated via Sendai virus-mediated reprogramming, were used as the cellular models.The piNSC lines displayed hallmark neural stem cell (NSC) morphology and expressed canonical markers (PAX6+, SOX2+, NES+, VIM+, OCT4-). Upon differentiation, they generated neuronal and glial cells expressing TUJ1, MAP2, SYP, TH, and GFAP, confirming their multipotency. A total of 4,094 proteins were identified across the three cell states. Multivariate analysis revealed distinct proteomic signatures separating fibroblasts, iNSCs, and their neuronal/glial progeny. The proteomic shift from the fibroblast to the piNSC state was marked by increased expression of stathmin 1 (STMN1), neurofilament light polypeptide (NEFL), aconitate hydratase (ACO2), electron transfer flavoprotein subunit beta (ETFB), fructose-bisphosphate aldolase B (ALDOB), and transketolase (TKT), alongside suppression of actin-related protein 2/3 complex subunit 5 (ARPC5) and LIM domain and actin-binding protein 1 (LIMA1). These shifts indicate a dismantling of the fibroblast cytoskeleton and a broad upregulation of cellular energy and biosynthetic metabolism, reflecting a loss of fibroblast identity and the acquisition of an NSC state. Upon differentiation into piNSCs-NGs, 19 proteins were consistently upregulated. These included neuronal structural proteins (INA, STMN1), cytoskeletal regulators (PFN1), signaling modulators (MBIP), and proteins involved in lysosomal function (NCOA7), cell adhesion (CDHR2), and calcium signaling (ANXA4). Pathway and network analyses highlighted post-transcriptional regulation-particularly involving RNA processing and the RNA exosome complex (e.g., EXOSC3)-as a key feature of differentiation.This study provides the first comprehensive proteomic map of piNSC reprogramming and differentiation in a large animal model. Our findings uncover critical regulatory proteins and pathways governing cytoskeletal organization, metabolism, and RNA processing, offering valuable insights into neural fate states. This resource advances the understanding of neural reprogramming in translational models and supports future regenerative and comparative neuroscience efforts.© 2025 Ploypetch et al.
Myocardial ischemia/reperfusion injury (MI/R) remains a major challenge in cardiac transplantation, leading to early graft dysfunction or primary nonfunction, and eventually death. This study explores the role of annexin A4 (ANXA4), a calcium-dependent phospholipid-binding protein, in MI/R pathogenesis and investigates its underlying mechanisms. In C57BL/6J mice, ANXA4 expression was moderately increased following MI/R (induced by 45-min occlusion/24 h reperfusion) (mRNA: sham vs. MI/R = 1.00 vs. 2.42, p < 0.01; protein: 1.00 vs. 2.39, p < 0.05). To assess its functional role, AAV9 particles (1 × 1011 viral genomes per mouse) carrying ANXA4 encoding fragments were intravenously injected into mice 4 weeks before the surgery. The forced elevation of ANXA4 reduced IR-induced myocardial infarction from 41.22% to 18.23%, lowered the ventricular arrhythmias score from 10.83 to 6.00, and creatinine kinase-myocardial band (CK-MB) activity from 450 to 268 U/L. ANXA4 overexpression also inhibited cardiomyocyte apoptosis, inflammation, and oxidative stress. In vitro, ANXA4 overexpression mediated by pcDNA3.1 vector protected HL-1 mouse cardiomyocytes against oxygen-glucose deprivation/reoxygenation (OGD/R)-induced cell damage. Further high-throughput transcriptomics illustrated that ANXA4 upregulation significantly suppressed the expression of the receptor for advanced glycosylation end products (RAGE; Log2 Fold change = -3.19, p < 0.05). Mechanistically, ANXA4 repressed the transcription of RAGE by dampening the nuclear translocation of NFκB p50. Collectively, this study demonstrates that ANXA4 is upregulated in the mouse myocardium post MI/R as a compensatory response, and its overexpression alleviates MI/R- and OGD/R-induced cardiomyocyte injury by preventing NFκB p50 from binding to and initiating transcription of RAGE.© 2025 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) is the most prevalent renal malignancy with a poor prognosis when metastasized. The invasive growth of cancer cells relates to membrane-damaging forces, but the relevance of plasma membrane repair machinery in ccRCC remains incompletely understood. Employing proteomics, analysis of scRNA-sequencing data, and multiplex imaging, we identified ANXA4 as selectively expressed in ccRCC, with distinct localization patterns at the plasma and nuclear membranes. Genetic titration studies demonstrated that reduced ANXA4 expression impairs membrane repair and invasive capabilities. Further segmentation analysis of ANXA4-low tumors showed a distinct composition of the tumor microenvironment, with increased tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes and acellular extracellular matrix deposition. Transcriptomic analysis demonstrated alterations in epithelial-mesenchymal transition and immune signaling signatures in ANXA4-low tumors. Transcription factor enrichment analysis identified ELF3 as a regulator of invasive properties. Our integrative approach uncovered multiple roles for ANXA4 in modulating membrane repair, transcriptional regulation, and shaping the ccRCC tumor microenvironment composition.© 2025 The Author(s).
Here, we present a multi-omics study of type 2 diabetes and quantitative blood lipid and lipoprotein traits conducted to date in Hispanic/Latino populations (nmax = 63,184). We conduct a meta-analysis of 16 type 2 diabetes and 19 lipid trait GWAS, identifying 20 genome-wide significant loci for type 2 diabetes, including one novel locus and novel signals at two known loci, based on fine-mapping. We also identify sixty-one genome-wide significant loci across the lipid/lipoprotein traits, including nine novel loci, and novel signals at 19 known loci through fine-mapping. Next, we analyze genetically regulated expression, perform Mendelian randomization, and analyze association with transcriptomic and proteomic measure using multi-omics data from a Hispanic/Latino population. Using this approach, we identify genes linked to type 2 diabetes and lipid/lipoprotein traits, including TMEM205 and NEDD9 for HDL cholesterol, TREH for triglycerides, and ANXA4 for type 2 diabetes.© 2025. The Author(s).
Migraine is one of the most disabling neurological diseases globally; however, a significant proportion of patients do not respond to current treatments, or treatment efficacy diminishes over time, highlighting the need to identify additional molecular candidates for further investigation. Recent studies have increasingly focused on the role of neuro-immune interactions in migraine. This study aimed to identify peripheral immune-related candidate genes associated with NAD+ metabolism-related transcriptional features in migraine through integrated bulk and single-cell transcriptomic analyses. Using the PRJEB40032 dataset, samples were stratified according to ssGSEA-derived NAD+ metabolism scores, followed by differential expression analysis, weighted gene co-expression network analysis and protein-protein interaction network construction. LASSO regression, SVM-RFE, and XGBoost were subsequently applied to prioritize candidate genes. CXCL8, CXCR4, CXCL1, and TNFAIP3 showed cross-algorithm consistency and were subsequently incorporated into an exploratory nomogram, which exhibited apparent discriminatory performance within the PRJEB40032 discovery cohort. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that these genes were associated with immune and inflammatory pathways, including IL-17, NF-κB, TNF, and Toll-like receptor signaling. Immune cell-composition analysis indicated significantly increased estimated abundances or activity scores for NK cells, mast cells, eosinophils, and neutrophils in migraine samples, with positive associations between the prioritized candidate genes and pro-inflammatory immune features. Single-cell RNA sequencing further showed that CXCL1 and CXCL8 were predominantly expressed in monocytes, while TNFAIP3 and CXCR4 were widely expressed across various immune cell types. qPCR assessment in a migraine mouse model showed group-dependent expression alterations in the functionally related murine CXCL1/CXCR2 axis. Overall, this study prioritized peripheral immune-related candidate genes associated with migraine and NAD⁺ metabolism-related transcriptional features, providing exploratory evidence for a potential link among systemic immune alterations, NAD⁺ metabolism-related processes, and migraine.© 2026. The Author(s).
Alzheimer's disease (AD) lacks reliable early diagnostic biomarkers and effective disease-modifying therapies. Ferroptosis has been increasingly implicated in AD pathogenesis; however, ferroptosis-related genes with diagnostic and mechanistic relevance remain insufficiently characterized.Transcriptomic datasets were obtained from the GEO database and analyzed using differential expression analysis and WGCNA, followed by integration with ferroptosis-related gene sets. Key targets were identified through PPI networks and machine learning approaches, including LASSO regression and random forest. A diagnostic model was constructed and its discriminative performance was assessed across independent datasets by cohort-specific refitting. Functional roles were explored using GSEA, and experimental validation was conducted by qPCR in Aβ-treated PC12 cells. Potential therapeutic compounds were predicted using the CMAP database.A total of 52 ferroptosis-related candidate genes were identified. Among these, three genes, NFKBIA, ATP6V1E1, and SUB1, were consistently selected as core features by machine learning algorithms. A diagnostic model based on these genes demonstrated strong performance in the training cohort (AUC > 0.8) and reproducible discriminative ability across external datasets, albeit with cohort-dependent variability. Functional analysis suggested that these genes are involved in pathways related to neuroinflammation, lysosomal activity, and oxidative stress, indicating a potential link between ferroptosis and key pathological processes in AD. qPCR validation confirmed the differential expression trends of these genes. In addition, several candidate compounds, including etomoxir and tubastatin A, were predicted to potentially modulate these pathways.Three ferroptosis-related genes, NFKBIA, ATP6V1E1, and SUB1, were identified in Alzheimer's disease and showed consistent discriminative ability across multiple cohorts, with links to neuroinflammation, lysosomal function, and oxidative stress. These findings highlight their potential as candidate biomarkers warranting further investigation, although prospective validation in independent cohorts is required to confirm their diagnostic utility.Copyright © 2026 Zhao, Sui, Li, Wang, Sun, Zheng and Li.
The incidence of ulcerative colitis (UC) and obesity has risen in recent years, potentially linked through metabolic dysregulation and chronic inflammation. The nuclear receptor NR1D1 is pivotal in regulating circadian rhythms and plays a significant role in inflammation and metabolism. This study investigates the therapeutic effects and mechanisms of the NR1D1 agonist SR9009 on obesity-related UC.We established a mouse model of obesity-induced UC utilizing a high-fat diet alongside dextran sulfate sodium (DSS). 32 male C57BL/6 mice were divided into four groups: control (DZ), high-fat diet (GZ), obesity associated UC model group (UC), and SR9009 intervention group (JD), with eight mice each. We evaluated body weight, blood lipids, colonic tissue alterations, IL-1β, IL-18, macrophage polarization, and NR1D1 expression levels.Mice in the UC group demonstrated significantly elevated body weight, spleen index, TG, CHOL and inflammatory markers (P < 0.01). Pathological scores of colonic tissues increased markedly (P < 0.001), with a rise in M1 macrophages (CD68+) and a decline in M2 macrophages (CD206+) (P < 0.001). NR1D1 expression was notably downregulated (P<0.01). Post-SR9009 intervention, the JD group showed significantly reduced serum TG and CHOL levels (P = 0.001, 0.011), IL-1β and IL-18 (P<0.001), improved colonic pathology (P < 0.001), a decrease in M1 macrophages, an increase in M2 macrophages, and an enhanced M1/M2 ratio (P<0.001).SR9009 mitigates intestinal inflammation in obesity associated UC by activating NR1D1, potentially modulating NF-κB-related signaling, and modulating macrophage polarization (suppressing M1 and enhancing M2). These findings propose a novel strategy for targeting NR1D1 in the treatment of obesity-related ulcerative colitis.Copyright © 2026 Zheng, Cai, Liu and Bi.
Preterm birth (PTB), defined as delivery before 37 weeks, is a major cause of neonatal morbidity and mortality worldwide. Evidence suggests that both epigenetic dysregulation and gut microbial imbalance contribute to the inflammatory and metabolic disturbances associated with PTB; however, few studies have examined these factors in conjunction to identify integrated predictive biomarkers.This study aimed to identify epigenetic and microbial signatures associated with PTB by integrating maternal second-trimester genome-wide DNA methylation profiles with gut microbiome composition.A case-control study was conducted with 120 pregnant women, grouped into two categories: preterm (≤37 weeks, n = 60) and full-term (>37 weeks, n = 60). Maternal blood and fecal samples were collected simultaneously. DNA methylation was profiled using the Illumina MethylationEPIC array, and gut microbiota were characterized through 16S rRNA sequencing. Differentially methylated regions (DMRs) and differentially abundant taxa were identified using FDR < 0.05. Sparse canonical correlation analysis and network modeling were applied to integrate the datasets and identify linked epigenetic-microbial features predictive of PTB.Women with PTB showed distinct methylation changes in immune and inflammation-related genes, including IL6, CXCL10, TNFAIP3, and PPARGC1A. Gut microbiome analysis revealed significantly reduced α-diversity (Shannon index: 2.81 ± 0.31 vs. 3.42 ± 0.36, p = 0.002), enrichment of pro-inflammatory taxa (Prevotella, Sutterella, Veillonella), and depletion of beneficial genera, including Lachnospiraceae, Faecalibacterium, and Bifidobacterium. Integrated analysis showed strong cross-domain associations (r = 0.68, p < 0.001), linking immune-gene hypomethylation with enrichment of inflammatory taxa. The combined biomarker panel achieved high predictive performance (AUC = 0.87; sensitivity = 82%; specificity = 84%), outperforming methylation-only and microbiome-only models. Functional enrichment highlighted convergence on NF-κB signaling, cytokine interactions, and butyrate metabolism.The study shows that coordinated epigenetic alterations and gut microbial dysbiosis contribute to PTB. These biomarkers are detectable during the second trimester (18-24 weeks), supporting their potential for mid-pregnancy risk stratification. The integrated methylation-microbiome signature offers strong potential for early, non-invasive prediction and supports development of targeted maternal interventions.Copyright © 2026 Huang and Cai.
Urate transporter 1 (URAT1, encoded by SLC22A12) is a key mediator of renal urate reabsorption and an important pharmacological target for urate-related disorders. Sodium butyrate (BuNa), a gut microbiota derived short-chain fatty acid, has been implicated in host metabolic regulation, but its role in renal urate transport remains unclear. Here, using molecular docking, cellular thermal shift assays, immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry and multi-omics analyses, we identified free fatty acid receptor 2 (FFAR2) as a direct target of BuNa in renal proximal tubular HK2 cells . BuNa binding upregulated FFAR2 and promoted URAT1 expression and urate uptake via an FFAR2-dependent pathway. Mechanistically, BuNa/FFAR2 signaling acts via GNAQ to activate PLCβ, generating diacylglycerol and engaging a PKC-dependent p38 MAPK/ELK1 cascade that upregulates arrestin beta 2 (ARRB2). ARRB2 directly binds to IκB, preventing its phosphorylation-dependent degradation, thereby stabilizing IκB and inhibiting NF-κB nuclear translocation. Within the SLC22A12 promoter, NF-κB (RELA/p50) and hepatocyte nuclear factor 1 beta (HNF1β) compete for overlapping binding sites. By blocking NF-κB nuclear entry, BuNa relieves this competition, permitting HNF1β-driven SLC22A12 transcription. Thus, BuNa enhances URAT1-mediated urate reabsorption in HK2 cells via an FFAR2/GNAQ/p38 MAPK/ELK1/ARRB2 axis that stabilizes IκB, suppresses NF-κB, and relieves the competitive binding between NF-κB and HNF1β on the SLC22A12 promoter. These findings establish a previously unrecognized gut microbiota-kidney axis linking microbial BuNa to renal urate homeostasis through a novel transcriptional regulatory circuit.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
By integrating transcriptomics and network pharmacology, we systematically investigated the potential hemostatic mechanism of Bletilla striata (BS).Thirty SPF-grade Kunming mice were randomly divided into three groups (n =10 per group): Control group, Model group, and BS group. The BS group was orally administered Bletilla striata extract (2.48 g/kg) for 7 consecutive days, while the Control and Model groups received an equal volume of 0.5% sodium carboxymethyl cellulose (CMC-Na) solution. On day 7, the Model and BS groups were injected via the tail vein with heparin sodium (0.8 U per mouse) to inducesystemic bleeding. The bleeding time (BT) was measured by tail tip amputation, and coagulation parameters including prothrombin time (PT), activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT), thrombin time (TT), and plasma fibrinogen (FIB) were measured using a semi-automaticcoagulation analyzer. Liver tissues were collected for total RNA extraction and transcriptome sequencing to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) related to coagulation pathways. Network pharmacology was used to construct aprotein-protein interaction (PPI) network, screen hub genes, and perform molecular docking to evaluate the binding affinity between the active component militarineand key target proteins.Compared with the Model group, preventive treatment with BS significantly shortened BT and CT (P <0.01), and reversed coagulation parameters: APTT, PT, and TT were significantly reduced (P <0.01), while FIB levels were significantly elevated P <0.001). Transcriptome analysis showed that the hepatic gene expression profile in the BS group was closer to that of the Control group. Network pharmacologyidentified Tnf, Rictor, Nrld1 , and Pnpla2 askey hub genes involved in the hemostaticprocess, all of which exhibited favorable binding affinity with militarine. Compared to the control group, the Model group showed a significant decrease in hepatic Tnf expression but significant increases in Rictor, Nr1d1 , and Pnpla2. After preventive intervention with Bletilla striata , the hepatic Tnf expression in the mice was significantly increased compared to the Model group, while Rictor, Nr1d1 , and Pnpla2 significantly decreased. These findings were further validated by RT-PCR and molecular docking analyses.This study reveals that the hemostatic effect of BS is potentially mediated through multi-target synergistic regulation of coagulation factor transcription, coupled with modulations in lipid metabolism and circadian rhythms. It provides a theoretical basis for developing novel hemostatic agents.
Feedback mechanisms regulate immune activation and prevent excessive tissue damage. TNFAIP3, also known as A20, serves as a crucial brake on inflammation, and mutations or haploinsufficiency of this gene are linked to diseases characterized by inappropriate inflammation. In this study, we document highly conserved patterns of cell type-specific gene expression, regulation, and induction of TNFAIP3, and employ transgenic and gnotobiotic mouse models to investigate how adaptive immunity and the gut microbiome contribute to pathology arising from impaired A20 function. Contrary to our expectations, systemic inflammation resulting from Tnfaip3 deficiency in CD11c (Itgax)-expressing cells developed independently of autoreactive antibodies, B cells, and T cells. The microbiome also proved dispensable for disease manifestations in these models. These findings suggest that in diseases caused by insufficient TNFAIP3/A20 activity, autoantibodies may reflect a downstream consequence of disease rather than a causative driver, suggesting autoinflammatory rather than autoimmune pathology. These insights carry therapeutic implications for the treatment of TNFAIP3-associated diseases.Copyright © 2026 Van Damme, Hertens, Sichien, Van der Borght, Van Moorleghem, De Prijck, Klarenbeek, Louagie, Lammens, Vanhee, Vanhove, De Bleser, Van Laecke, Dendooven, Hammad, Vereecke, Elewaut, van Loo and Lambrecht.
Sleep disturbance is prevalent in aging populations, yet its association with ambient PM2.5 remains insufficiently characterized due to the lack of reliable molecular biomarkers. We leveraged 2350 middle-aged and older adults from the Guangxi Eco-Environmental Health and Aging Study to examine the association between PM2.5 exposure and sleep quality measured by the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) and to identify relevant DNA methylation signatures of circadian rhythm genes. Higher PM2.5 was significantly associated with worse sleep outcomes, with the strongest associations for the 2-month exposure window. Particularly, per 10 μg/m3 increase in the 2-month average PM2.5 was associated with a 1.33-point increase in PSQI score (95% CI: 0.95, 1.71), a 0.79-hour reduction in sleep duration (95% CI: -0.99, -0.59), and higher odds of poor sleep quality (odds ratio [OR] =2.17, 95% CI: 1.69, 2.80) and abnormal sleep duration (OR =1.59, 95% CI: 1.24, 2.03). A two-stage analysis of DNA methylation signatures identified 47 sleep-related CpG sites, of which 11 were selected using LASSO penalization to construct the sleep-quality-related methylation risk score (MRS). Mediation analyses further identified five CpGs annotated to NPAS2, PRKAG2, RORA, and CSNK2A2 that partially mediated the association between PM2.5 exposure and sleep quality (mediation proportions: 9.08%-15.98%), whereas the sleep MRS accounted for a higher mediation proportion than individual CpGs (25.03%). Our findings underscore ambient PM2.5 exposure as a relevant environmental factor linked to impaired sleep quality and highlight that circadian epigenetic signatures could serve as molecular markers of vulnerability to pollution-related sleep disturbances.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Assisted reproductive technology (ART) is widely used to treat infertility, a global health burden. Controlled ovarian hyperstimulation (COH) is a crucial first step in ART that enables the collection of a large number of mature oocytes. Ovarian reserve (OR), namely, the number and quality of primordial follicles, indicates female reproductive potential and is an important determinant of infertility treatment outcomes. However, changes in the immune response and related regulatory mechanisms at single-cell resolution in patients with varying levels of OR during COH remain unclear. In this study, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was performed on peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) samples obtained from 4 patients with a normal OR (N group), 4 with a diminished OR (D group), and 4 with a high OR (H group) before (B group) and after COH (A group). Single-cell transcriptome profiling revealed 20 cell clusters and cell distribution patterns. GDT, CD8 Teff and CD4 naïve T cells were enriched predominantly in the NA, HA and DA groups, respectively. We also identified differentially expressed genes (DEGs) with similar patterns between the NA and NB groups and between the HA and HB groups. An analysis of intercellular communication revealed variable changes in cell-cell interactions, and the candidate ligand-receptor pair HLA-B/KIR3DL2 was identified in the HA group compared with the HB group. Moreover, we detected systematic proinflammatory features in NA and HA patients accompanied by upregulated expression of proinflammatory genes, including JUN, JUNB, NFKBIA, MAP3K8 and CCL5. We also identified essential transcription factors (TFs) related to follicle development and maturation. This study provides new information on the specific regulatory role of the immune response in COH that will facilitate the identification of potential targets to improve infertility treatment outcomes in patients with varying levels of OR.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a persistent systemic disorder of autoimmune origin, with its core pathological manifestation being inflammation of the synovial tissue. The excessive growth of fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) represents a critical pathological mechanism in RA, actively driving the advancement of the condition. Dictamnus dasycarpus Turcz. (D. dasycarpus) exhibits prominent anti-inflammatory effects and shows favorable therapeutic efficacy against RA. Dictamnine (Dic) is a major active component of D. dasycarpus, however, its therapeutic effectiveness and underlying mechanisms in RA have yet to be fully elucidated. This study investigated the effect of Dic on synovial hyperplasia in RA and elucidated the underlying mechanisms. Using a TNF-α-induced human fibroblast-like synoviocyte (HFLS-RA) model and a collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) mouse model, Dic was found to effectively inhibit synovial cell proliferation and pathological hyperplasia. Proteomics analysis was employed to clarify its potential mechanism in ameliorating the disease, and the findings were further validated through hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining, immunofluorescence (IF), ROS detection, JC-1 staining, cellular thermal shift assay (CETSA), drug affinity responsive target stability (DARTS) analysis, quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and western blotting (WB). The results suggested that the anti-RA activity of Dic is associated with its interaction with the nuclear receptor NR1D1. Moreover, the NR1D1 antagonist SR8278 reversed Dic's effects on Nrf2 and cytoprotection, confirming that Dic functions through NR1D1. This activation consequently influences the Keap1/Nrf2/ARE cascade, leading to decreased intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation and an improvement in compromised mitochondrial membrane potential. siRNA knockdown experiments further confirmed that NR1D1 is a target of Dic and regulates the downstream Keap1/Nrf2/HO-1 signaling pathway, through which Dic ameliorates RA both in vitro and in vivo by upregulating NR1D1 expression to activate the Keap1/Nrf2/ARE antioxidant pathway, thereby mitigating oxidative stress, inhibiting synovial cell proliferation, and ultimately alleviating pathological synovial hyperplasia.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
The restoration of liver mass after partial hepatectomy (PH) and split liver transplantation (SLT) relies on efficient liver regeneration, a process highly susceptible to metabolic dysregulation. Although remodeling of the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle is commonly observed during liver injury and regeneration, the specific role of succinic acid remains unclear. Here, we integrated radiomics, transcriptomics, metabolomics, and functional assays to systematically evaluate the association between succinic acid and liver regeneration. Multi-omics analysis of 20 SLT patients demonstrated that elevated succinic acid levels were strongly associated with impaired regenerative outcomes, and weighted gene co-expression network analysis identified the TCA cycle as a key regeneration-associated metabolic module. In a 70% PH mouse model, succinic acid administration was associated with reduced survival and decreased hepatocyte proliferation, consistent with impaired liver regeneration. Mechanistically, succinic acid exhibited distinct effects in different cell types: in macrophages, it enhanced inflammatory activation and increased interleukin-6 (IL-6) secretion, whereas in hepatocytes it reduced IL-6-induced STAT3 phosphorylation and downstream regenerative signaling. Furthermore, molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulations, and surface plasmon resonance assays supported an interaction between succinic acid and the STAT3 SH2 domain, providing structural evidence consistent with modulation of STAT3 signaling. Collectively, these findings suggest that succinic acid may function as an immunometabolic regulator that contributes to impaired liver regeneration by altering macrophage-derived IL-6 signaling and hepatocyte STAT3 activation. These findings also support further investigation of the succinic acid-STAT3 axis as a potential therapeutic target for promoting liver regeneration following hepatic injury or resection.© 2026. The Author(s).
Vocal fold fibrosis (VFF), characterized by excessive extracellular matrix deposition, leads to permanent voice impairment, with current therapies often failing to restore vocal function. Current treatments are limited by suboptimal efficacy and high recurrence rates. Dysregulated energy metabolism is emerging as a critical driver of fibrosis. AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), a central cellular energy sensor, exerts broad antifibrotic effects in multiple organs, yet the therapeutic potential of novel AMPK activators, such as Aldometanib, in VFF remains to be fully characterized. This study aimed to evaluate the therapeutic potential and mechanisms of Aldometanib, a novel AMPK activator, in vocal fold fibrosis.A controlled animal study was conducted using an SD rat vocal fold injury model. Animals were randomly allocated into four groups: control, injury, and injury treated with low or high doses of Aldometanib. Primary vocal fold fibroblasts were isolated and cultured, then stimulated with TGF-β1 to induce fibroblast activation, followed by treatment with different concentrations of the AMPK activator Aldometanib. Key outcome measures included histopathological analysis of collagen deposition (Alcian blue and EVG staining), protein and gene expression levels of fibrotic markers (α-SMA, COL1A1, FN1), and components of the JAK2/STAT3 signaling pathway (p-AMPK, p-JAK2, p-STAT3).In vivo, compared with the injury only group, Aldometanib treatment significantly improved the histological architecture of the vocal fold lamina propria. These changes were accompanied by increased p-AMPK levels and decreased expression of p-JAK2, p-STAT3, α-SMA, COL1A1, and FN1. In vitro, Aldometanib attenuated TGF-β1-induced fibroblast activation, and these effects were effectively reversed by co-treatment with the AMPK inhibitor DOX, confirming AMPK pathway dependency.Pharmacological activation of AMPK with Aldometanib effectively alleviates vocal fold fibrosis by inhibiting the JAK2/STAT3 signaling axis. This study identifies AMPK as a promising novel therapeutic target for vocal fold fibrosis, supporting future development of more potent or specific AMPK activators and localized delivery systems for clinical translation.Copyright © 2026 The Voice Foundation. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Liver fibrosis is a major global health issue with limited treatment options. Activation of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) induces collagen deposition, which is a core step in the progression of liver fibrosis. MicroRNA221-3p (miR221-3p) is a key profibrotic regulator of the activation of hepatic stellate cells. Sensitive and selective imaging and regulation of miR221-3p within complex cellular environments are essential for both diagnosis and therapy, yet remains challenging.To address this, we engineered a miR-on Self-Assembly Cascade (SAC) amplification strategy for miR221-3p visualization and regulation. The system consists of a DNA initiator strand (Hc) and four hairpin strands (H1-H4). MiR221-3p binds to and opens Hc, triggering a self-sustained circular hairpin reporter reaction. The resulting replicas serve as feedback to drive subsequent cycles, achieving exponential signal amplification. This design enables highly sensitive and selective fluorescence imaging of miR221-3p in living cells. Additionally, as a functional demonstration, the SAC system also induced inactivation of HSCs. Mechanistic studies revealed that the SAC strategy disrupts the miR221-3p/Suppressor Of Cytokine Signaling 1 (SOCS1) axis, thereby suppressing Signal Transducer and Activator of Transcription 3 (STAT3) phosphorylation, thus alleviating liver fibrosis. In vivo studies further demonstrate the sustained administration of SAC significantly reduced extracellular matrix accumulation and ameliorated liver fibrosis in a CCl4-induced mouse model.Owing to its self-sustained signal amplification, the SAC strategy achieves both sensitive miR221-3p imaging and effective fibrosis suppression. This work provides a robust analytical platform for miRNA-based diagnostics and holds promise for precision medicine in fibrotic and miRNA-related disorders.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
White adipose tissue (WAT) communicates with distal metabolic organs and regulates their functions by secreting adipokines. Subcutaneous WAT (sWAT) is thought to be metabolically protective but prone to dysfunction with aging and obesity. Chronic activation of p53 is commonly observed in dysfunctional WAT at different anatomical locations in metabolic diseases. However, the impact of MDM2 deletion and its associated p53 activation in sWAT on adipokine profile and systemic metabolism is unknown.To investigate the effects of selective MDM2 deletion and associated p53 activation in sWAT, we administered two independent adipotropic adeno-associated virus (AAV) vectors expressing Cre recombinase into the sWAT of Mdm2flox/flox mice to locally delete MDM2, a well-established negative regulator that targets p53 for degradation. Deletion of MDM2 resulted in sustained p53 activation, leading to senescence, apoptosis, and fibrosis in sWAT, but not in other fat depots or metabolic organs. sWAT dysfunction resulting from MDM2 deletion and its associated p53 activation had no obvious impact on systemic glucose or lipid metabolism, but progressively triggered hepatic inflammation, damage, and fibrosis. Proteomic analysis revealed that MDM2 deletion shifted the sWAT adipokine profile toward a more pro-inflammatory and pro-fibrotic state. Among the MDM2 deletion-induced sWAT-derived factors, galectin-3 acted as a major contributor to hepatic stellate cell activation and fibrogenesis via the STAT3 pathway. At the molecular level, p53 bound to the Lgals3 promoter and upregulated its mRNA expression, thereby increasing galectin-3 secretion primarily in mature adipocytes.Our findings reveal that sWAT dysfunction caused by MDM2 deletion and its associated p53 activation is sufficient to promote hepatic damage and fibrosis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Secondary lymphedema is a debilitating complication following oncologic surgery, characterized by progressive tissue fibrosis and chronic inflammation. Although transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) has been established as a central mediator of fibrotic remodeling, the broader interplay between pro-inflammatory cytokines and downstream fibrotic signaling cascades in post-surgical lymphedematous tissue remains poorly understood.Skin and subcutaneous tissue biopsies were prospectively collected from 126 patients with unilateral breast cancer-related lymphedema and 58 matched controls across three tertiary centers between January 2024 and December 2025. Tissue specimens were analyzed using immunohistochemistry, quantitative real-time PCR, multiplex cytokine profiling, and Western blotting. Correlations between cytokine expression, fibrotic markers, and clinical severity were evaluated.Lymphedematous tissues exhibited significantly elevated expression of TGF-β1, interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-13 (IL-13), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) compared with controls (all P < 0.01). Concurrent activation of Smad2/3 and STAT3 signaling pathways was observed, with both correlating positively with disease severity. Multivariate regression identified TGF-β1, IL-6, and IL-13 as independent predictors of fibrotic burden, whereas TNF-α lost significance after adjustment for confounders. Lymphatic vessel density was inversely associated with cytokine levels and fibrotic severity.Secondary upper extremity lymphedema following breast cancer surgery is driven by a coordinated inflammatory and fibrotic axis involving TGF-β1, IL-6, and IL-13 through convergent Smad2/3 and STAT3 signaling. These findings support the development of multi-pathway therapeutic strategies beyond single-agent anti-fibrotic approaches for post-surgical lymphedema.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Psoriasis is a chronic immune-mediated inflammatory disease. Inosine Monophosphate Dehydrogenase 2 (IMPDH2), the rate-limiting enzyme in de novo guanine nucleotide biosynthesis, is upregulated during cytokine-mediated inflammatory responses, yet its specific role in keratinocyte biology and psoriatic pathogenesis remains unexplored. Here, we identify IMPDH2 as a critical metabolic regulator of psoriatic inflammation. Integrated analysis of bulk and single-cell RNA sequencing datasets revealed consistent upregulation of IMPDH2 in psoriatic keratinocytes, which was further validated by immunofluorescence staining of patient skin biopsies. In an imiquimod (IMQ)-induced murine psoriasis model, pharmacological inhibition of IMPDH2 with Casticin attenuated disease progression and alleviated epidermal inflammation. Mechanistically, IMPDH2 promotes keratinocyte inflammation through GTP-dependent activation of STAT3 signaling: IMPDH2 knockdown or inhibition reduced STAT3 phosphorylation and suppressed inflammatory responses, effects that were reversed by exogenous GTP supplementation, whereas IMPDH2 overexpression enhanced STAT3 phosphorylation and inflammation. Supporting a direct causal link between IMPDH2 and STAT3, the STAT3 activator colivelin reversed the effect of IMPDH2 inhibition, while the STAT3 inhibitor Stattic abrogated the effect of IMPDH2 overexpression. Collectively, this study establishes a previously unrecognized IMPDH2-GTP-STAT3 axis driving keratinocyte inflammation and nominates Casticin as a promising therapeutic candidate for psoriasis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42565910
Plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs) are specialized sentinels of antiviral immunity and the dominant early source of interferon-α (IFN-α) during viral infection. While pDC-derived IFN-α restricts viral replication and provides a critical third signal for T cell activation, sustained type I interferon (IFN-I) signaling can drive immunopathology, and the physiological mechanisms that constrain this response remain incompletely understood. Here, we identify fever as a conserved host factor that selectively limits IFN-α production by pDCs. We show that febrile-range temperature does not impair early IFN-α induction but instead suppresses sustained IFN-α output in human and mouse pDCs. Mechanistically, elevated temperature attenuates signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) phosphorylation, thereby disrupting the IFN-I-dependent positive feedback loop required for IFN-I amplification following CpG-A stimulation. Pharmacological inhibition of protein phosphatase activity with okadaic acid (OA) restores STAT1 phosphorylation and rescues IFN-α production under febrile conditions. Together, these findings establish fever as a physiological regulator of pDC-derived IFN-I responses and reveal a temperature-dependent mechanism that constrains prolonged IFN-I production to prevent excessive immune activation.© 2026 The Authors.
Secondary central nervous system involvement by extranodal NK/T-cell lymphoma is rare and presents significant diagnostic challenges, particularly in immune compromised patients. We report a case of a 29-year-old man with chronic active Epstein-Barr virus infection and prior extranodal NK/T-cell lymphoma status post allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation who presented with a new-onset seizure and a ring-enhancing intracranial lesion. Initial imaging findings closely mimicked cerebral toxoplasmosis, leading to empiric antimicrobial therapy and delayed diagnosis. Despite treatment, the lesion demonstrated rapid progression, prompting stereotactic biopsy, which revealed Epstein-Barr virus-positive extranodal T-cell lymphoma with a pathogenic STAT3 p.Y640F activating mutation. This case highlights the substantial radiographic overlap between central nervous system lymphoma and infectious etiologies in immunosuppressed patients, where conventional imaging modalities may lack specificity. The presence of an aggressive molecular profile, including STAT3 activation, likely contributed to rapid disease progression and poor prognosis. This report underscores the importance of maintaining a high index of suspicion for lymphoma in patients with progressive intracranial lesions unresponsive to empiric therapy and emphasizes the critical role of early tissue diagnosis to guide appropriate management.© 2026 The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42564203 is a review article
Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV) infection and reactivation in B-lymphocytes are tightly regulated by host antiviral response genes. In the present study, we identify Interferon Stimulated Genes (ISGs) RSAD2 (radical S-adenosyl methionine domain-containing 2) and CMPK2 (Cytidine/Uridine Monophosphate Kinase 2) as key modulators of EBV expression and cellular response during EBV infection and reactivation. EBV primary infection and reactivation lead to a coordinated upregulation of RSAD2 and CMPK2. Depletion of RSAD2 reduced cell viability and limited EBV reactivation, while depletion of CMPK2 led to reactivation of EBV lytic gene expression during latency. Despite distinct subcellular localizations, RSAD2 at the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and CMPK2 in the mitochondria, transcriptomic analysis revealed that both genes functionally converge and exhibit overlapping roles in driving shared immunometabolic pathways, specifically Interferon (IFN) signaling, MAPK signaling, oxidative phosphorylation, mitochondrial function, eukaryotic translation, and ATF-4-associated unfolded protein response (UPR). We show that RSAD2 and CMPK2 knockdown affects IRAK1-TRAF6-TAK1 expression levels, and RSAD2 overexpression downregulates NF-κB signaling by EBV membrane associated oncoprotein LMP1. Depletion of RSAD2 and CMPK2 had significant effects on global metabolites consistent with a remodeling of nucleotide metabolism, glycolysis, fatty acid biosynthesis and degradation of superoxides. EBV reactivation induced formation of antiviral ribonucleotide ddhCTP during lytic EBV reactivation which was strictly dependent on RSAD2. These observations demonstrate that RSAD2 and CMPK2 function in a coordinated ER-Mitochondria-Interferon signaling axis that shapes EBV reactivation and host immune control, including a novel layer of immunometabolic regulation modulating viral latency and reactivation.Copyright: © 2026 Zankharia et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Endothelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EndMT) is implicated in cardiac remodeling under pathological stress, although its full in vivo occurrence may be context-dependent. Emerging evidence suggests that protein methylation is an important post-translational modification involved in regulating endothelial phenotypic transition (EndMT-like process). However, the role of protein arginine methyltransferase 2 (PRMT2), a key protein arginine methyltransferase, in modulating endothelial phenotypic transition-particularly in the context of cardiac remodeling-remains poorly understood.A transverse aortic constriction (TAC) mouse model was used to induce cardiac remodeling, and adeno-associated virus serotype 9 (AAV9) was administered to specifically silence PRMT2 in endothelial cells.We found that PRMT2 expression was significantly upregulated in cardiac endothelial cells following pressure overload. Endothelial-specific silencing of PRMT2 markedly attenuated cardiac hypertrophy, fibrosis, and endothelial phenotypic transition in TAC mice. In vitro, PRMT2 knockdown in isolated murine cardiac microvascular endothelial cells alleviated TGF-β1-induced endothelial phenotypic transition, while PRMT2 overexpression exacerbated these phenotypic changes. Mechanistically, PRMT2 enhanced endothelial phenotypic transition by promoting monomethylation of Snail1 and activation of the Snail signaling pathway. Importantly, endothelial-specific knockdown of Snail1 reversed the phenotypic transition induced by PRMT2 overexpression.These findings identify PRMT2 as a key epigenetic regulator of endothelial phenotypic transition in cardiac remodeling, suggesting it may serve as a potential therapeutic target for heart failure.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Interleukin receptor-associated kinase (IRAK)-1 binding protein 1 (IRAK1BP1) is a vital factor in preventing dangerous overproduction of proinflammatory cytokines by the innate immune system. The structure and function of IRAK1BP1 have been well investigated in mammals, yet the piscine IRAK1BP1 is poorly understood. In the present study, the first teleost fish IRAK1BP1 from blunt snout bream, maIRAK1BP1, was identified and characterized, which was composed of a 750 bp open reading frame encoding a protein of 249 amino acids. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that maIRAK1BP1, is a novel member of IRAK1BP1 family and showed the highest similarity to that of grass carp (96.28%). Amino acid sequence analysis revealed that maIRAK1BP1 shared a conserved SIMPL domain. Spatial expression pattern analysis revealed that maIRAK1BP1 was constitutively expressed in various normal tissues including heart, spleen, head kidneys, gill, kidney, muscle, intestine and liver. The maIRAK1BP1 expression in immune-relevant tissues (liver, head kidneys and kidney) and caudal fin cells (MAF) were significantly up-regulated after LPS and bacteria injection. The result from subcellular localization analysis indicated that maIRAK1BP1 protein was localized in both the cytoplasm and nucleus of MAF cells, but predominantly existed in cytoplasm. The activity of NF-κB promoter could be inhibited by overexpression of maIRAK1BP1 in HEK-293T cells. Overexpression of maIRAK1BP1 in MAF cells inhibited dramatically the transcriptional expression level of lipopolysaccharide-induced proinflammatory cytokines (IL-1β, IL-6, IL-8 and TNF-α). In contrast, an increased expression of these cytokines was observed when maIRAK1BP1 was knocked down via siRNA. Taken together, these results indicated that maIRAK1BP1 played an important role in mediating host innate immune response to pathogen invasion, and disclosed the involvement of maIRAK1BP1 in NF-κB-mediated production of proinflammatory cytokines, which provided foundational insights into the conserved role of IRAK1BP1 in teleost immune regulation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Recent research has identified pyroptosis as a distinct form of programmed cell death that is strongly correlated with tumor outcomes. However, its value as a prognostic biomarker in clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) is not yet fully established.Differential expression of pyroptosis-related genes between ccRCC and normal tissues was identified using the DESeq2 R package. Next, univariate and least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) Cox regression analyses using data from The Cancer Genome Atlas cohort were applied to develop a prognostic model. Univariate and multivariate prognostic analyses were conducted to determine whether the risk score could independently predicted patient prognosis after adjustment for clinicopathological characteristics. A nomogram was then constructed to estimate patient survival probability, supporting clinical decision-making. Expression of pyroptosis-related proteins was assessed using tissue proteomic data from the Clinical Proteomic Tumor Analysis Consortium (CPTAC) database. Additionally, the Tumor-Immune System Interaction Database (TISIDB) database was used to analyze immune cell infiltration, whereas gasdermin B (GSDMB) expression in ccRCC cell lines was assessed by Western blot (WB) and quantitative PCR (qPCR) experiments, with immunohistochemistry applied to measure the levels of GSDMB and programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1).A prognostic risk model was developed using nine genes related to pyroptosis (AIM2, CASP5, GSDMB, GSDMD, NLRP7, NOD2, PYCARD, SCAF11, and NLRP6), employing both univariate Cox and LASSO regression analyses. Based on the median risk score, ccRCC samples were divided into high- and low-risk categories, with Kaplan-Meier analysis revealing poorer survival rates for the high-risk group. Time-dependent receiver operating characteristic curve analysis confirmed the predictive performance of the model for ccRCC prognosis. Furthermore, a nomogram with calibration plots was developed to predict 1-, 3-, and 5-year survival probabilities for patients with ccRCC. Notably, these pyroptosis-related genes were strongly correlated with immune cell infiltration, including cytotoxic cells, CD56bright natural killer cells, and T helper cells. Subsequently, qPCR and WB analyses confirmed elevated GSDMB expression in ccRCC cells, and immunohistochemistry demonstrated a strong correlation between GSDMB and PD-1 expression.Pyroptosis-associated genes, namely AIM2, CASP5, GSDMB, GSDMD, NLRP7, NOD2, PYCARD, SCAF11, and NLRP6, are promising prognostic biomarkers for ccRCC, and may serve as prognostic biomarkers for predicting patient survival and informing immunotherapy strategies.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Cell death is a key effector mechanism of the innate immune system for host defense. While it is beneficial for pathogen clearance, excess lytic cell death is linked to inflammation, pathology, and disease. Therefore, tight regulation of cell death execution is critical. PANoptosis is an innate immune, lytic, and inflammatory cell death pathway initiated by innate immune sensors and driven by caspases and RIPKs, with roles in infection, inflammatory disease, and cancer. During PANoptosis, caspases and RIPKs within PANoptosome complexes activate multiple executioner proteins, including gasdermin (GSDM) family proteins and mixed lineage kinase domain-like pseudokinase (MLKL). These executioners form membrane pores that lead to membrane lysis and the release of DAMPs and cytokines. Although multiple executioners are activated during PANoptosis, the requirement for individual executioners in driving the lytic cell death remains unclear. To address this, we performed a comprehensive genetic analysis of GSDMD, GSDME, and MLKL using single, double, and triple knockout primary macrophages across triggers known to activate distinct PANoptosomes. Deletion of individual executioners did not reduce the activation of caspases or other executioners and did not fully block PANoptosis, suggesting these executioner molecules often act in a compensatory manner to execute PANoptosis. Furthermore, combined deletion of all three executioners provided greater protection than any single or double deletion. However, residual cell death still occurred even after genetic deletion of all three executioner proteins, suggesting the involvement of additional executioners that remain to be identified. Overall, our study suggests that targeting individual executioners will not be sufficient in disease contexts where PANoptosis drives pathology, and targeting the full executioner network or upstream molecules, such as sensors or essential PANoptosome complex components, will be needed for therapeutic efficacy in infection, inflammatory disease, and cancer.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
NLRP12 can induce PANoptosis, a novel form of inflammatory cell death. The research aimed to investigate the mechanisms of NLRP12 in regulating PANoptosis during postinfarction heart failure (HF). C57BL/6J mice were treated with AAV-shNLRP12 before acute myocardial infarction (AMI) modeling using coronary artery ligation, and mouse cardiomyocytes were treated with lentiviruses before hypoxia. NLRP12 and FOSL2 were upregulated in myocardial tissues of AMI-induced mice and hypoxia-exposed mouse cardiomyocytes. FOSL2 activated NLRP12 in mouse cardiomyocytes by binding to its promoter. Knockdown of FOSL2 or NLRP12 improved survival and inhibited HF after AMI, including recovery of cardiac function, reduction of fibrotic area of myocardial tissues, decrease of myocardial injury, and inhibition of PANoptosis in mice. Combined overexpression of NLRP12 impaired the inhibitory effect of the knockdown of FOSL2 on HF after AMI. Our findings demonstrate that FOSL2 promotes cardiomyocyte PANoptosis by inducing the transcription of NLRP12, thereby triggering HF after AMI.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Background and Objectives: The clinical differentiation of peripheral involvement within the spondyloarthritis (SpA) spectrum remains a significant challenge. Identifying patients at the stage of psoriasis without clinical arthritis (PsO), before the onset of overt arthritis, is crucial for early disease management. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have emerged as potential epigenetic regulators in inflammatory rheumatic diseases. This study aimed to identify circulating miRNA profiles that serve as discriminative biomarkers between PsO and peripheral SpA (p-SpA). Materials and Methods: This exploratory study was conducted in two phases. In the preliminary discovery phase, plasma miRNA expression was analyzed using high-throughput microarrays in patients with p-SpA (modeled by peripheral psoriatic arthritis, n = 6), PsO (psoriasis without clinical arthritis, n = 3), and osteoarthritis (n = 3). In the validation phase, candidate miRNAs were verified using TaqMan-based qPCR in an independent cohort (n = 30) of various SpA phenotypes, categorized into those with peripheral arthritis (SpA-A) and those without (SpA-N). Results: The preliminary discovery phase identified altered levels of hsa-miR-140-5p, hsa-miR-192-5p, and hsa-miR-146a-5p among the groups; however, due to the small sample size, these initial findings required strict downstream verification. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that these candidate miRNAs primarily targeted the NF-κB signaling pathway (hsa04064) and Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling pathway (hsa04620). The validation cohort confirmed that these three miRNAs could reliably differentiate SpA-A from SpA-N patients. Furthermore, bioinformatic mapping predicted that downstream targets, including TRAF6, IRAK1, and CXCL2, may be associated with these clinical phenotypes, serving as hypothesis-generating observations for future studies. Conclusions: Our findings suggest that specific plasma miRNA profiles are associated with the inflammatory pathways driving peripheral involvement in the SpA spectrum. These miRNAs represent potential biomarkers associated with peripheral arthritis in the SpA spectrum. While they offer new molecular insights into disease pathogenesis, their predictive value for identifying PsO patients at risk of developing overt arthritis requires confirmation in future longitudinal studies.
Inflammation is essential for host defense, but, when dysregulated, it contributes to tissue damage and chronic disease. MicroRNA-146a (miR-146a) is a well-recognized negative regulator of inflammatory signaling, primarily through suppression of the NF-κB pathway; however, its broader proteomic impact under inflammatory conditions remains incompletely defined. In this study, we overexpressed an miR-146a mimic in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated RAW 264.7 macrophages and applied quantitative mass spectrometry to characterize global protein abundance changes. Functional overexpression was supported by reduced mRNA abundance of the established miR-146a targets TRAF6 and IRAK1 under LPS-stimulated conditions. Proteomic analysis identified 1232 proteins showing differential abundance under the predefined exploratory criteria, including proteins related to NF-κB activity, inflammasome components, nitric oxide synthesis, and IL-6-associated pathways. Proteins linked to interferon-related signaling were also altered. Targeted validation by quantitative RT-PCR and parallel reaction monitoring supported changes in selected inflammatory mediators, including PTGS2, NOS2, MAPKAPK2, and IRF3. Functionally, miR-146a overexpression was associated with reduced LPS-induced nitric oxide and IL-6 production. Together, these findings provide an exploratory proteomic overview of pathways associated with miR-146a overexpression in activated macrophages and suggest that miR-146a is associated with modulation of multiple inflammatory signaling networks under inflammatory conditions.
Diabetic retinopathy (DR) reflects retinal microvascular injury and systemic immune-metabolic stress, and most public DR transcriptomic datasets lack paired microbiome/metabolomic profiles. We used gutMGene v2.0 as a curated microbe/metabolite-host gene prior and integrated it with peripheral blood transcriptomics from GSE221521. Candidate genes were refined by weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), repeated resampling, cross-dataset assessment, mechanism scoring, peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) single-cell localization and filamin A (FLNA)-centered single-cell gene regulatory network (GRN) virtual knockout. The gutMGene prior contained 238 host genes; 15 DR-associated genes overlapped this prior, and WGCNA retained ten candidate gut microbe and microbial metabolite-related genes (GMMRGs): FLNA, AKT1, IRAK1, BCL10, CDK6, CTSD, JUP, CXCL1, CXCR2 and IL4R. Resampling prioritized FLNA as the most consistent candidate. Cross-dataset assessment localized the strongest signal to type 2 diabetes (T2D) PBMCs, retinal endothelial cells and advanced proliferative diabetic retinopathy with diabetic macular edema (PDR + DME) retinal tissue, with weaker separation in whole blood, broad retinal tissue and six-donor type 1 diabetes (T1D) PBMCs. FLNA virtual knockout predicted cell-context-dependent perturbation of immune-related transcriptional programs, including IL4R in DR B cells and CTSD in DR monocytes/NK cells. This prior-guided study identifies FLNA within a ten-gene GMMRG set as a circulating host-response signal that links curated microbe/metabolite-host records to immune-vascular and cytoskeletal remodeling in DR.
Sepsis is a life-threatening condition characterized by a dysregulated host response to infection, leading to multi-organ dysfunction. Toll-like receptor signaling via MYD88- and TRIF-dependent pathways plays a central role in this process; however, its temporal and tissue-specific dynamics remain incompletely understood. The aim of this study was to investigate time-dependent transcriptional changes in MYD88- and TRIF-dependent signaling pathways across multiple organs in a murine model of sepsis. mRNA expression of MYD88, IRAK1, IRAK4, NF-kB, CCL4, CCL20, CCR2, IFN-β, IFN-γ, TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-2, IL-4, IL-8, IL-10, IL-18, Klotho, KLF4, HOXA5, NANOG and HIF1α was quantified using qRT-PCR in intestinal, kidney, liver and lung tissues at 24, 48, and 72 h following cecal ligation and puncture-induced sepsis in male C57BL/6J mice. Significant upregulation of innate immune signaling molecules, cytokines, chemokines, and interferon-related genes was observed in all tissues compared with controls. Genes associated with hypoxia and cellular regulation were also increased. These responses were tissue-specific and progressively intensified over time. Sepsis represents a dynamic, time-dependent, and tissue-specific process characterized by sustained activation of immune and hypoxic pathways, providing potential targets for time-stratified therapeutic strategies.
Endometriosis (EMS) is characterised by a disrupted peritoneal immune microenvironment where M2 macrophage polarization and impaired phagocytosis promote lesion survival. Single-cell RNA-seq (ScRNAseq) of the peritoneal macrophages from EMS patient revealed elevated Triggering Receptor Expressed on Myeloid cells 2 (TREM2) and signal regulatory protein α (SIRPα). The expression of TREM2 and SIRPa is positively correlated, and each are positively correlated with estrogen response. Mouse EMS model was established by intraperitoneal injection of estrogen primed mouse endometrial fragments into recipient female mice. In vitro estrogen treatment of RAW 264.7 cells indicated an increasing TREM2/SIRPα expression and enhancing phagocytosis of lesion cells derived from WT EMS ectopic lesions. Peritoneal macrophage from mice with EMS were analyzed using flow cytometry for the expression of TREM2 and SIRPα. The assessment of F4/80, CD206, and SIRPα expressing cells within the lesions were performed through the implementation of multi-color immunohistochemistry (mIHC). Small peritoneal macrophages (SpMs, F4/80low CD11blow) were markedly increased in the EMS model. Trem2 knockout mice, as the recipient, showed smaller ectopic lesion size and less lesion formation. TREM2 deficiency inhibited SpM polarization into M2 and downregulated their SIRPα expression, while enhancing phagocytic activity. Mechanistically, estrogen pretreatment upregulated TREM2, which correlated with SIRPα upregulation and impaired phagocytosis. Under estrogen exposure, TREM2 knockdown RAW 264.7 cells potentiated phagocytosis. Thus, TREM2 is an important contributing pathogenic factor in promoting EMS by enhancing M2 polarization and suppressing phagocytosis via SIRPα upregulation.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for the Study of Reproduction. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
To investigate the expression of TMSB4X in T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) cells, as well as its effects on T-ALL cell proliferation and metastasis and the underlying mechanisms.qRT-PCR and Western blot were used to detect the expression of TMSB4X mRNA and protein in human CD3+T cells from healthy donors and the human T-ALL cell lines Jurkat, MOLT-4, and CCRF-CEM. Jurkat cells with TMSB4X knockdown (TMSB4X-KD group) and CCRF-CEM cells with TMSB4X overexpressing (TMSB4X-OE group) were constructed via lentivirus infection, with corresponding control groups set up for each; additionally, Jurkat cells in the TMSB4X-KD group were co-incubated with 20 μmol/L SKL2001 (a Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway agonist) for 24 hours ( TMSB4X-KD+SKL2001 group), while CCRF-CEM cells in the TMSB4X-OE group were co-incubated with 10 μmol/L MSAB (a Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway inhibitor) for 24 hours (TMSB4X-OE+MSAB group). CCK8 assay, flow cytometry and Transwell assay were used to detect the cell proliferation, apoptosis, and migration ability, respectively, while Western blot was used to detect the expression of related proteins in each group.The expression levels of TMSB4X mRNA and protein in the T-ALL cell lines (Jurkat, MOLT-4 and CCRF-CEM) were all significantly higher than those in CD3+T cells from healthy donors (P <0.01). Compared with the control group, Jurkat cells in the TMSB4X-KD group showed significantly decreased proliferation and migratory abilities (P <0.001), a significantly elevated apoptosis rate (P <0.001), and significantly downregulated expression of Wnt4 and β-catenin proteins (P <0.001); in contrast, CCRF-CEM cells in the TMSB4X-OE group showed significantly increased proliferation and migratory abilities (P <0.01), a significantly decreased apoptosis rate (P <0.001), and significantly upregulated expression of Wnt4 and β-catenin proteins (P <0.01). Compared with the TMSB4X-KD group, Jurkat cells in the TMSB4X-KD+SKL2001 group exhibited significantly increased proliferation and migratory abilities (P <0.001), along with a markedly reduced apoptosis rate (P <0.001); in contrast, compared with the TMSB4X-OE group, CCRF-CEM cells in the TMSB4X-OE+MSAB group showed significantly decreased proliferation and migratory abilities (P <0.01), as well as a notably elevated apoptosis rate (P <0.001).TMSB4X can promote the proliferation and metastasis of T-ALL cells by activating the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway.
Postmenopausal osteoporosis (PMOP) arises from a bone remodeling imbalance in which osteoclast-mediated resorption exceeds osteoblast-driven formation. However, current therapies primarily target osteoclasts without restoring osteoblast function, underscoring the need for mechanism-driven dual-action approaches. Here, we identify neddylation as a post-translational modification that reciprocally regulates osteoclast and osteoblast differentiation. In bone tissue from patients with PMOP, NEDD8 and its activating enzyme NAE1 were significantly upregulated, indicating heightened pathway activity. Mechanistically, c-Cbl neddylates NFATc1 to promote osteoclastogenesis, whereas Rbx1 neddylates Runx2 to suppress osteoblast maturation. Pharmacological blockade with the NAE1 inhibitor MLN4924 counteracted both effects and, in ovariectomized mice, reduced osteoclast activity while preserving osteoblast function, preventing deterioration of bone mass and microarchitecture. In human PMOP bone tissues, elevated NEDD8 and NAE1 expression was associated with increased NFATc1 in osteoclast-lineage cells and reduced Runx2 in osteoblast-lineage cells, suggesting translational relevance. These findings reveal neddylation as a unifying mechanism that coordinates opposing effects on osteoclast and osteoblast master transcription factors and highlight its potential as a mechanism-driven dual-action therapeutic target.© 2026. The Author(s).
African swine fever (ASF) is an acute, hemorrhagic, and highly contagious disease caused by African swine fever virus (ASFV), which causes severe economic losses in the swine industry. ASFV has evolved multiple strategies to evade host antiviral immune responses. Here, we report that ASFV pMGF360-3 L promotes host mitophagy by manipulating chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA), thereby inhibiting the production of type I interferon (IFNB/IFN-β). Mechanistically, pMGF360-3 L targets the SKP1 protein via its N-terminal ankyrin (ANK) repeat domain, promoting the degradation of SKP1 through the CMA pathway, which inhibits the proteasomal degradation of BNIP3 to increase its expression level in mitochondria. Subsequently, BNIP3 binds to MAP1LC3B/LC3B to induce mitophagy, a process that leads to the degradation of mitochondria. Notably, the CMA-mediated degradation of SKP1 depends on its K94 site, and the SKP1-BNIP3 axis is critical for pMGF360-3 L-mediated IFNB inhibition. In summary, our study reveals a mechanism through which ASFV pMGF360-3 L facilities CMA-dependent degradation of the E3 complex component SKP1. This stabilizes mitochondrial BNIP3 to initiate mitophagy and block IFNB production. This deepens our understanding of the immune evasion strategies of ASFV and provides potential drug targets for controlling viral infection.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; ASFV: African swine fever virus; BafA1: bafilomycin A1; BNIP3: BCL2 interacting protein 3; CMA: chaperone-mediated autophagy; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CQ: chloroquine; CHX: cycloheximide; CUL1: cullin 1; DAPI: 4', 6-diamidino-2'-phenylindole; EV: emptor vector; FBXL4: F-box and leucine rich repeat protein 4; hpi: hours post-infection; IFNB: interferon beta; ISGs: IFN-stimulated genes; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MG132: cbz-leu-leu-leucinal; MAVS: mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein; MOI: multiplicity of infection; PAMs: porcine alveolar macrophages; PPTC7: protein phosphatase targeting COQ7; RBX1: ring-box 1; RT-PCR: real-time polymerase chain reaction; siRNA: small interfering RNA; SKP1: S-phase kinase associated protein 1; TCID50: 50% tissue culture infectious doses; Ub: ubiquitin; WCL: whole-cell lysate; WT: wild-type.
In multiple sclerosis several alterations in transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) signaling in immune cells have been observed, however, little is known about gene expression of TGF-β receptor subunits. Dimethyl fumarate is a disease modifying drug that is still used to treat relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis. Although its inhibitory effect on TGF-β signaling associated with SMAD proteins has been observed, its effect on the expression of TGF-β receptors is unknown. Expression of genes for TGF-β receptor subunits - TGFBR1, TGFBR2, as well as the co-receptor - TGFBR3 has been examined in blood from patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis, untreated and treated with dimethyl fumarate, as well as in healthy controls, using droplet digital PCR. TGF-β1 concentrations were determined in sera, using ELISA. Untreated patients had significantly lower TGFBR3 gene expression in blood than healthy controls (p<0.0001) and significantly lower serum concentration of TGF-β1 (p=0.0268), than healthy controls. Patients treated with dimethyl fumarate had significantly lower TGFBR2 and TGFBR1 gene expression (p=0.0054 and 0.0225 respectively) and significantly higher TGF-β1 (p=0.0113) serum concentrations than untreated patients. The percentage of T cells in blood of untreated relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) patients was significantly higher than in healthy controls (p=0.0054), but in dimethyl fumarate-treated patients was not significantly different from the values in the other groups. Downregulation of the TGFBR3 gene and lower TGF-β1 serum concentration in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis can indicate a defective regulatory immune response. Downregulation of TGFBR1 and TGFBR2 genes could be one of the mechanisms for dimethyl fumarate-induced inhibition of TGF-β signaling.Copyright© 2025 Polish Physiological Society.
Urinary proteomic profiling (UPP) provides insights in disease mechanisms and origin of symptoms. Using UPP, this study aimed at deepening insight in the biology of exercise tolerance.In the HOMAGE trial, 268 patients at risk of heart failure underwent the incremental shuttle walk test (SWT) and UPP by capillary electrophoresis coupled with mass spectrometry at baseline (discovery) and the 9-month final visit (replication). Sequencing of 1498 urinary peptides identified 170 non-collagen and 40 collagen-derived proteins. Ten exercise-related variables, including heart rate and blood pressure responses, symptoms and walking distance were summarised into a single factor, higher values indicating exercise intolerance. In exploratory analyses, exercise intolerance was related to the UPP, first in linear and logistic regression models, considering one peptide at a time, and next by elastic net regression considering the peptides retained in the previous step. Replicated proteins were subjected to pathway analysis.Twenty-nine non-collagen and 31 collagen-derived peptides were associated with reduced exercise capacity with correction for multiple testing. In elastic net regression, exercise intolerance was in >50% of 1000 bootstrap runs associated with the non-collagen proteins FXYD2, GAPDH, HBB, KCNB1, MB, MYOCD, SECTM1, SNX9, TACC3, TMSB4X, and TTN and with collagens COL5A1, COL6A1, COL11A2, and COL28A1. Enriched pathways involved oxygen homoeostasis, oxidative stress regulation, metabolic and developmental processes, and muscle biology.In HOMAGE patients, UPP identified parent proteins regulating exercise endurance, which are involved in oxygenation, vascular and muscle structure and function, maintenance of the circulating volume, and protection against oxidative stress.European Union.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Stanford type A aortic dissection (AAD) is a life-threatening cardiovascular disease characterized by tearing in the aortic wall. Using spatial transcriptomics and multiplex immunofluorescence, we comprehensively analyzed ascending aortas from eight AAD patients across different severities and segments. We demonstrate that SPP1-driven inflammatory signaling intensifies with AAD severity, identifying a nine-gene, layer-anchored severity scale: MYL6/CALD1/MYH9 (mild); CCL2/CP/COL4A1 (moderate); and TMSB4X/ATP5F1E/PKM (severe). Importantly, the collagen-remodeling triad COL1A1/COL3A1/MMP2 is concurrently up-regulated in the brachiocephalic, left subclavian, and left common carotid arteries, often before the ascending aorta meets surgical diameter thresholds. These molecular signatures provide a critical foundation for non-invasive biomarker discovery, risk stratification, and precision pharmacotherapy targeting the SPP1-inflammatory axis, ultimately offering new insights into AAD mechanisms and therapeutic targets.© 2026 The Author(s).
Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) remains difficult to treat in a substantial minority of patients, despite the established first-line use of exposure and response prevention, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, and pharmacological augmentation. This treatment gap has encouraged renewed interest in biological axes that sit outside a narrow monoamine-centered model. In this study, we asked whether transcriptional genetic signals for OCD show enrichment in cellular maintenance pathways motivated by nicotinamide mononucleotide (NMN)-associated aging biology and whether any such pathways outperform a curated antidepressant-related gene comparator. Using OCD transcriptome-wide association study (TWAS)-derived gene-level Z statistics and an absolute Z-score ranking framework, ten NMN-motivated Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway expansions were compared against AntiDep_Genes. The strongest and most defensible finding in the OCD analysis was selective enrichment of KEGG_AUTOPHAGY_ANIMAL. Autophagy nominally outperformed the antidepressant comparator in the primary head-to-head test, with normalized enrichment score (NES) = 1.166, p = 0.041979, and difference in normalized enrichment score (dNES) = +0.2097. The signal persisted after removal of overlapping antidepressant-related genes, with cleaned NES = 1.1784 and p = 0.042479, and the autophagy set also showed a higher absolute Z-score distribution than AntiDep_Genes by Mann-Whitney U testing, p = 0.04717. Leading-edge overlap with the antidepressant comparator was minimal, limited to mechanistic target of rapamycin (MTOR). The OCD autophagy signal was driven by a mixture of core autophagy machinery and upstream signaling genes, including MAPK3, MAP1LC3A, PPP2CB, MAP2K1, GORASP2, BAD, ATG2A, ATG10, MAPK8, and CALCOCO2. This pattern suggests a signaling-execution module rather than a simple enrichment of canonical ATG genes alone. The result is biologically consistent with recent OCD genetic findings implicating cortical and hippocampal excitatory neurons and D1/D2 striatal medium spiny neurons, which are cell types with high synaptic and metabolic demands. These findings are best viewed as hypothesis-generating. They do not support NMN, nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) precursors, or autophagy modulators as OCD treatments, but they do identify autophagy and mitochondrial quality-control biology as plausible targets for future functional and stratification studies. The autophagy enrichment was nominally significant in the primary analysis but did not survive Benjamini-Hochberg false-discovery rate correction across the ten tested pathways (false discovery rate (FDR)-adjusted p = 0.41979); the findings should therefore be considered hypothesis-generating.Copyright © 2026, Cheung et al.
Identification of signaling networks is an essential goal in systems biology. Here, we use CRISPR/Cas9 knockout screening (employing a whole kinome sgRNA library) to identify functionally critical protein kinases in a well-studied G α s-dependent G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR)-signaling model, namely the vasopressin V2 receptor (V2R) pathway. Screening was done using a specially-designed fluorescence-based reporter cell line with green-fluorescent protein (GFP) co-transcribed with Aqp2 , a gene whose transcription is dependent on vasopressin-mediated activation of protein kinase A (PKA). Positive regulators (n=14) included PKA-catalytic subunit α (Prkaca) and Dyrk1a ( minibrain homolog). Negative regulators (n=12) included PKA-regulatory subunit type Iα, Stk11 (catalytic subunit of liver kinase B1 [LKB1] complex), and three TGF-β receptor subunits (Tgfbr1, Tgfbr2, Tgfbr3) (see https://esbl.nhlbi.nih.gov/Databases/Kinome-CRISPR-screen/ for full list). Dyrk1a knockout cell lines failed to express AQP2 protein and exhibited a profound decrease in AQP2 mRNA. RNA-sequencing demonstrated widespread increases in cell-cycle transcripts, with a general defect in cell differentiation, accounting for AQP2 loss. TGF-β exposure to un-transformed cells results in a profound decrease in V2R and AQP2 mRNA abundance along with multiple additional transcriptional targets of V2R-PKA signaling, consistent with prior findings in TGF-β-mediated vasopressin 'escape'. Stk11/LKB1 knockout lines displayed marked increases in AQP2 protein and mRNA, even in the absence of vasopressin. RNA-sequencing showed a marked similarity between the responses to Stk11/LKB1 deletion and vasopressin exposure in untransformed cells. Phospho-proteomic data point to opposing roles of Stk11/LKB1 and PKA in the regulation of cAMP-responsive transcriptional coactivator (CRTC) proteins in the transcriptional response to V2R-PKA signaling.Cells throughout the body are regulated by extracellular signals like the hormone, vasopressin. Hormonal effects on cellular function are mediated by membrane receptors that trigger biochemical changes, often by inducing chemical modification of the amino acids making up individual proteins, such as addition of function-altering phosphate groups (phosphorylation). Protein phosphorylation is mediated by enzymes known as "protein kinases". Here, we have screened all known protein kinases using modern CRISPR/Cas9 technology to identify those involved in vasopressin action in the kidney. As expected from prior knowledge, the screen identified protein kinase A and one of its regulatory subunits, but also identified several protein kinases not previously implicated in vasopressin action in the kidney.
Ankylosing Spondylitis (AS) is a chronic inflammatory autoimmune rheumatic disease that primarily affects the spine and sacroiliac joints. This study aimed to investigate the expression levels of immune response-related genes, including IRF7, NFKB1A, TNFAIP3, STAT1, TRIM21, TRIM22, and TRIM25, as well as the serum levels of CXCL10 and SIRPA proteins in patients with AS. In addition, the potential diagnostic performance of these molecular and serum biomarkers in distinguishing patients with AS from healthy controls was evaluated. A total of 45 patients with AS and 44 healthy controls were included in the study. Immune-related gene expression levels were analyzed using RT-PCR. In addition, serum CXCL10 and SIRPA protein levels were evaluated using ELISA. The expression levels of NFKB1A, TNFAIP3, IRF7, STAT1, and TRIM21 were significantly increased in patients with AS compared to healthy controls (p < 0.05). In contrast, no significant differences were detected in the expression levels of TRIM22 and TRIM25. In the ROC analysis, the highest diagnostic performance was obtained for NFKB1A (AUC = 0.741), TNFAIP3 (AUC = 0.720), and TRIM21 (AUC = 0.722). Serum CXCL10 and SIRPA levels were not significantly different between the groups. In AS, genes particularly associated with NF-κB and interferon signaling pathways (NFKB1A, TNFAIP3, IRF7, STAT1, and TRIM21) were found to be significantly altered, and these genes may serve as potential molecular biomarkers for AS. In contrast, the diagnostic power of serum protein biomarkers is limited. These findings indicate that the potential of these genes as biomarkers for AS pathogenesis should be further supported by advanced studies evaluating their expression levels.
Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) survivors frequently experience a wide range of symptoms known as post-acute sequelae of SARS-CoV-2 (PASC) or long COVID. Importantly, complications arising from microvascular dysfunction, blood-brain barrier (BBB) disruption, and chronic neuroinflammation have been implicated in driving PASC within the central nervous system (CNS), known as neuro-PASC. Notably, people with HIV (PWH), who suffer from chronic neuroinflammation, BBB impairment, and glial cell dysfunction, collectively known as neuro-HIV, are generally at higher risk of neuro-PASC. The overlap between neuro-PASC and neuro-HIV raises concerns that HIV and SARS-CoV-2 co-infection may exacerbate neurological dysfunctions among PWH. In this study, using an in-vitro cell culture model, we examine the effects of HIV and SARS-CoV-2 mono- and co-infection in microglia, astrocytes, and pericytes. Our results demonstrated that majority of brain cell types support SARS-CoV-2 replication, in the presence and absence of HIV infection. Furthermore, in both mono- and co-infected cells, there were varying degree of up- and downregulation of SARS-CoV-2 host cell entry factors, such as ACE2, TMPRSS2, NRP1, and TRIM28, and inflammatory cytokines including IL-6, TNF-α, and IL-1β. Moreover, conditioned media collected from HIV, SARS-CoV-2, and HIV/SARS-CoV-2 co-infected astrocytes and pericytes were shown to be neurotoxic. Additionally, proteomic analysis has revealed a unique set of proteins significantly up/down regulated in HIV/SARS-CoV-2 co-infected astrocytes and pericytes. The gene set enrichment analysis of these proteins indicates dysregulation of lipid, energy, and immune metabolism pathways linked to neurodegenerative disorders like Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, Huntington's disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. These in-vitro findings indicate that astrocytes and pericytes from HIV/SARS-CoV-2 co-infection exhibit altered protein expression profiles, implicating dysregulated signaling pathways associated with neurodegenerative dysfunction.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Medical Virology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42556656 is a review article
Primary ovarian synovial sarcoma is an exceedingly rare malignancy that may mimic more common ovarian tumors, particularly in adolescents, posing significant diagnostic challenges.A 14-year-old girl presented with progressive abdominal distension and respiratory compromise. Imaging revealed a large mixed solid-cystic adnexal mass with ascites and pleural effusion. Serum CA-125 was elevated, while AFP and CEA were normal. The patient underwent right salpingo-oophorectomy and omentectomy. Histopathology showed a monophasic spindle cell neoplasm with focal cartilaginous differentiation. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated diffuse nuclear positivity for SS18 and TLE1, with co-expression of BCL-2, CD99, and EMA, while inhibin, calretinin, and WT-1 were negative. The positive SS18 immunohistochemical staining provided additional diagnostic confirmation of synovial sarcoma, supporting the diagnosis in conjunction with the characteristic histopathologic findings. The patient deteriorated rapidly and died before initiation of chemotherapy.Primary ovarian synovial sarcoma is a rare and aggressive tumor that can mimic germ cell neoplasms. Accurate diagnosis requires careful integration of histopathology and immunohistochemistry. Although molecular confirmation remains the diagnostic gold standard, SS18 fusion-specific immunohistochemistry provides a reliable diagnostic surrogate when molecular testing is unavailable.© 2026 The Authors.
BRD7 serves as a critical tumor suppressor, yet it is frequently inactivated via ubiquitination-mediated proteasomal degradation, facilitating tumor progression and metastasis. Although stabilizing or activating BRD7 represents a promising therapeutic strategy, pharmacological agents to achieve this remain limited. Here, we aimed to develop a peptide-based approach to enhance BRD7 protein stability. We first mapped the TRIM28-BRD7 interaction to the 299-349 aa region within the Coiled-coil domain of TRIM28. Based on this interface, we designed two α-helical peptides, TAB12 and TAB14, that mimic the key structural features. Mechanistically, TAB12 exhibits strong binding affinity toward BRD7 protein and competitively disrupts the TRIM28-BRD7 interaction, thereby blocking TRIM28-mediated BRD7 ubiquitination and stabilizing endogenous BRD7. In vitro functional assays demonstrated that TAB12 markedly inhibits tumor cell proliferation, migration, and invasion, induces cell apoptosis, and presents low cytotoxicity toward normal cells. Subsequent rescue experiments confirmed that BRD7 knockdown substantially abrogates the anti-tumor effects of TAB12, verifying that TAB12's function depends on stabilizing BRD7. Furthermore, in vivo animal models validated that TAB12 significantly suppresses tumor growth with a favorable safety profile. Therefore, this study identifies a novel peptide agent that exerts broad anti-tumor effects by stabilizing BRD7, offering a feasible strategy for restoring tumor suppressor function.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42549923 is a review article
We present the case of a 40-day-old female infant with acute febrile illness, cutaneous lesions, severe respiratory distress, and shock refractory to antibiotic therapy. Skin biopsy revealed findings consistent with acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis (Sweet syndrome). After excluding infectious, hematological, and hemophagocytic etiologies, an autoinflammatory syndrome was suspected, and treatment with anakinra and glucocorticoids was initiated, resulting in initial clinical improvement. However, after one year of treatment and dose tapering, the patient experienced relapses. Tocilizumab was then started, leading to a sustained clinical response to date.Copyright © 2026 Sociedad Española de Reumatología (SER), Colegio Mexicano de Reumatología (CMR) and Elsevier España, S.L.U. All rights reserved.
This study aimed to investigate whether Huangqi Chongteng Yin(HQCTY) alleviates oxygen-glucose deprivation/reoxygenation(OGD/R)-induced injury and mitochondrial dysfunction in mouse hippocampal HT22 neurons by modulating the receptor-interacting protein kinase 1(RIPK1)/receptor-interacting protein kinase 3(RIPK3)/mixed lineage kinase domain-like protein(MLKL)-mediated necroptosis signaling pathway. After preparing HQCTY-containing serum and verifying its safety and efficacy, HT22 cells were divided into the control group, OGD/R group, HQCTY-containing serum low-, medium-, and high-dose groups(5%, 10%, and 20%), and an edaravone(Eda) group. Cell viability and membrane damage were assessed using the cell counting kit-8(CCK-8) assay and lactate dehydrogenase(LDH) release assays, respectively, while nuclear morphology was evaluated by DAPI staining. The expression and phosphorylation levels of RIPK1, RIPK3, and MLKL were detected by Western blot, and the expression and subcellular localization of MLKL and phosphorylated(p)-MLKL were examined by immunofluorescence assay. Mitochondrial membrane potential, energy metabolism, mitochondrial network morphology, and ultrastructural alterations were evaluated using JC-1 staining, ATP assay kit, Mito-Tracker Green staining, and transmission electron microscopy, respectively. In addition, fluorescence staining was performed to assess the morphology of translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20(TOM20) and the cytoskeleton(phalloidin staining). The levels of tumor necrosis factor-α(TNF-α), interleukin-1β(IL-1β), IL-6, and IL-18 were determined by ELISA. The results showed that, compared with the OGD/R group, HQCTY significantly increased HT22 cell viability, reduced LDH release and nuclear condensation, markedly downregulated the protein expression of p-RIPK1/RIPK1, p-RIPK3/RIPK3, and p-MLKL/MLKL, while ameliorating the abnormal localization of p-MLKL. Furthermore, HQCTY significantly improved mitochondrial membrane potential, increased ATP production, and promoted the restoration of mitochondrial network and ultrastructure. It also significantly reduced the levels of TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6, and IL-18. These findings indicate that HQCTY may directly protect neurons from OGD/R injury by inhibiting RIPK1/RIPK3/MLKL-mediated necroptosis signaling pathway and improving mitochondrial structure and energy metabolism, thereby providing new insights and intervention strategies for the application of traditional Chinese medicine formulas in neuroprotection after cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury.
Tumour necrosis factor (TNF) is a pleiotropic cytokine originally identified for its ability to kill cancer cells. However, a paradoxical tumour-promoting role for TNF emerged when early attempts to exploit its anti-tumour activity in cancer therapy produced conflicting outcomes, raising the question of whether TNF should be viewed as a therapeutic agent or a treatment target in cancer. Here, we demonstrate that expression of cFLIP, a catalytically inactive paralogue of caspase-8 (CASP8), determines the susceptibility of melanoma cells to TNF and thereby controls melanoma growth in a syngeneic, immune-competent mouse model of B16F10 cutaneous melanoma. B16F10 melanoma cells lacking cFLIP (cFlipKO/KO cells) failed to grow in wild-type mice, whereas in TNF-deficient mice, cFlipKO/KO melanoma cells formed palpable tumours and exhibited robust subcutaneous growth. These findings indicate that TNF alone is sufficient to control melanoma growth in the absence of cFLIP. Importantly, the anti-tumour activity of TNF has predominantly been investigated through targeting cellular inhibitors of apoptosis proteins (cIAPs), which promotes RIPK1 activation and TNF-induced cytotoxicity. We show that genomic ablation of cIAPs or RIPK1, in contrast to cFLIP, neither triggered TNF-induced toxicity nor affected melanoma growth in vivo. Collectively, our data underscore the central role of cFLIP in regulating melanoma responses to TNF and suggest that endogenous immune surveillance as well as immunotherapies involving TNF could strongly benefit from cFLIP targeting strategies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Chronic exposure to ultraviolet A (UVA) radiation is the principal environmental driver of skin photoaging, yet the upstream molecular events that commit irradiated keratinocytes to senescence remain poorly understood. Here we show that SIRT6, an NAD+-dependent protein deacetylase with established roles in genome maintenance and organismal longevity, functions as a central gatekeeper of keratinocyte homeostasis under photic stress. Using a chronic UVA irradiation model in mice together with cultured human keratinocytes, we demonstrate that UVA inflicts extensive DNA damage and G2/M cell-cycle arrest, accompanied by selective depletion of SIRT6 among all sirtuin family members. Mechanistically, UVA suppresses the deubiquitinase USP10 at both transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels, thereby licensing ubiquitin-dependent proteasomal degradation of SIRT6. The resulting SIRT6 deficiency unleashes hyperactivation of the DNA-damage sensor PARP1, amplifying genomic injury signaling and driving keratinocytes into irreversible senescence with concomitant elaboration of a broad pro-inflammatory secretory programme encompassing chemokines and cytokines. Pharmacological reactivation of SIRT6 with the selective agonist UBCS039 reverses epidermal hyperplasia, attenuates DNA damage and senescence marker accumulation, and suppresses inflammatory mediator induction both in vivo and in vitro, establishing SIRT6 loss as a causal rather than correlative event. Furthermore, molecular docking and functional validation identify osthole, a plant-derived coumarin from the medicinal herb Cnidium monnieri, as a candidate SIRT6-engaging compound that counteracts UVA-induced senescence and inflammation in keratinocytes. Collectively, these findings define a USP10-SIRT6-PARP1 signaling axis whose disruption underlies cutaneous photoaging and suggest that SIRT6-directed strategies may offer therapeutic benefit against UV-driven tissue degeneration.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
During primordial germ cell (PGC) specification, repression of somatic programs is essential for the establishment of germline identity. However, mechanisms that safeguard PGC fate thereafter remain unknown. Here, we identify the E3 ubiquitin ligase TRIM37 as a critical safeguard of PGC fate during migration. Trim37 deficiency causes severe PGC defects beginning at embryonic day 9.5 (E9.5) with complete PGC depletion by E12.5, and leads to an aberrant transition toward somatic cell states. Mechanistically, TRIM37 binds TRIM28 through its MATH domain and ubiquitinates TRIM28 via its RING domain, enhancing the TRIM37-TRIM28 interaction and promoting the nuclear retention of TRIM37. Forced nuclear export of TRIM37 results in PGC loss. Moreover, disruption of TRIM37 ligase activity or mutation of TRIM28 ubiquitination sites compromises PGC maintenance. We further show that the TRIM37-TRIM28 complex, likely acting in cooperation with AP2γ, restricts chromatin accessibility and H3K27ac levels at somatic gene loci, thereby repressing somatic transcriptional programs in PGCs. Together, our findings uncover a TRIM37-TRIM28-AP2γ regulatory complex that safeguards germ cell fate by preventing the activation of somatic transcriptional programs during PGC migration.© 2026. The Author(s).
Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is a major cause of severe acute lower respiratory tract infections (ALRI), with incomplete elucidation of its pathogenesis and intricate host-virus crosstalk constraining the development of effective therapies. The post-transcriptional interplay among microRNAs (miRNAs), RNA-binding proteins (RBPs), and alternative splicing (AS) is a critical, yet underexplored host response layer.We integrated and analyzed three public datasets (GSE231784, GSE231788, and GSE155151) of RSV-infected A549 cells, screened differentially expressed miRNAs, identified conserved differentially expressed RBPs, used SUVA to detect AS events, and constructed a miRNA-RBP-AS network to find core axis. This integrated bioinformatics approach enabled systematic dissection of multi-layered post-transcriptional regulation during RSV infection.Our analysis revealed that RSV infection substantially alters host post-transcriptional regulation, with 86 conserved differentially expressed RBPs and 94 conserved AS events identified. A potential miRNA-RBP-AS axis was uncovered via regulatory network construction. Crucially, this axis suggests that the downregulation of let-7 family miRNAs (e.g., let-7f-2-3p, let-7a-3p) is strongly associated with the upregulation of the RBP genes SAMD4A and ENOX1. The expression of these RBPs, in turn, correlates with the AS of host genes that are implicated in viral replication and immunity, such as TNIP1 and NR5A2.These findings propose that RSV may exploit this post-transcriptional crosstalk to modulate host immunity and facilitate viral replication. Through bioinformatics analysis, this study provides a novel, system-level map of RSV-host interactions and identifies the let-7-SAMD4A/ENOX1-TNIP1/NR5A2 axis as a promising new target for future antiviral strategies, though this requires further experimental validation.Copyright (c) 2026 Mingzhen Cheng, Hongtao Xu, Fang Yuan, Shuangshuang Li.
Paqr7 and paqr8 are genes encoding membrane progestin receptor αand β (mPRα and mPRβ, respectively), which are currently classified as members of the progestin and adipoQ receptor (PAQR) family. For mPRα, the first identified mPR gene, there are two paralogs in zebrafish, paqr7a and paqr7b. In order to elucidate the physiological functions of the mPR subtypes, we created gene knockout (KO) fish by editing seven paqr genes in zebrafish and analyzing their phenotypes. The null-mutant strains of paqr7a, paqr7b, and paqr8 presented no significant abnormalities in reproductive functions. Thus, we generated a triple-gene knockout (TKO) strain of these highly related genes. The TKO strain had reduced fecundity and a high percentage of abnormal embryos. The embryos exhibited various types of abnormal morphology. In histological sections, a reduction in the number of nucleoli in germinal vesicles was observed. Additionally, the distribution of the nucleolus was abnormal. The amount of 18S and 28S ribosomal RNAs in the oocytes significantly increased. These analyses indicate that paqr7a, paqr7b, and paqr8 are responsible for the production of the nucleolus, which is necessary for supplying the proper number of ribosomal RNAs into the cytoplasm of oocytes. Abnormal embryo development resulted from low-quality eggs in TKO zebrafish, suggesting that paqr7a, paqr7b, and paqr8 mutations affect oogenesis. These results indicate that Paqr7a, Paqr7b, and Paqr8 are required for the preparation of the nucleolus during oogenesis. Insufficient formation of the nucleolus resulted in a higher quantity of ribosomal RNA in the cytoplasm, causing abnormal embryo development.
Basal cell carcinoma (BCC), the most common skin cancer, is driven by UV-induced DNA damage and shaped by immune surveillance. Although GWAS has identified over 140 risk loci, their cell-type-specific effects remain obscured by tissue-level averaging.We integrated BCC GWAS summary statistics from a UK-based cohort (17,416 cases, 375,455 controls) with single-cell expression quantitative trait locus (sc-eQTL) data from 12 immune cell types in the OneK1K resource. Using the OTTERS framework combined with ACAT-O, we performed single-cell transcriptome-wide association analysis (scTWAS); bulk TWAS using GTEx whole blood served as a conventional tissue-averaged benchmark for comparison, rather than a definitive gold standard. Functional enrichment was conducted via Gene Ontology (GO).Bulk TWAS using GTEx whole blood identified 35 BCC-associated genes (FDR < 0.05), including MC1R and CASP8. In contrast, single-cell transcriptome-wide association study (scTWAS) across 12 OneK1K cell types revealed 207 non-redundant susceptibility genes, predominantly in CD4ET, MONOC, and BIN. Functional enrichment uncovered cell-type-specific programs: MHC class II antigen presentation (CD4ET), PRR-mediated innate immunity (MONOC), and pro-inflammatory secretion (BIN)-all absent in bulk results.Our exploratory scTWAS using healthy donor PBMC-derived eQTLs uncovered cell-type-specific BCC associations missed by bulk analyses, providing hypothesis-generating insights into immune-related genetic effects in BCC. This underscores how single-cell resolution can overcome signal dilution from cellular heterogeneity, though validation in tumor-derived immune populations is warranted.Copyright: © 2026 Du et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Lung cancer remains one of the leading causes of cancer-related mortality worldwide, and although Cytarabine (CYT) exhibits anticancer activity, its clinical application is often restricted by dose-dependent toxicity. In this study, we investigated the synergistic anticancer potential of the NCBI-registered probiotic Streptococcus thermophilus Ab.342 SH (GenBank accession no. PX426457) in combination with CYT against human lung adenocarcinoma A549 cells. Following molecular identification of the probiotic isolate, A549 cells were treated with different concentrations of bacterial cell-free supernatant (CFS), CYT, or their combination, while human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) were used to evaluate selective cytotoxicity. Cell viability was assessed using the MTT assay, apoptosis-related gene expression was analyzed by qRT-PCR, and apoptotic cell death was confirmed by Annexin V-FITC/PI flow cytometry. The CFS alone reduced A549 cell viability in a dose-dependent manner without significant cytotoxicity toward HUVECs. CYT monotherapy exhibited an IC₅₀ of approximately 40 μg/mL, whereas combination treatment with S. thermophilus CFS (OD₆₀₀ = 1.2) reduced the IC₅₀ to 145 ng/mL, representing an approximately 276-fold dose reduction. Combined treatment significantly upregulated PTEN, BAX, CASP3, CASP8, CASP9, P53, P21, and FAS expression while suppressing AKT, mTOR, BCL-2, and IκB, accompanied by a marked increase in apoptotic cells. These findings demonstrate that S. thermophilus Ab.342 SH markedly enhances the anticancer efficacy of CYT while substantially reducing the required drug dosage, supporting the potential application of probiotic-based adjuvant therapy for safer and more effective lung cancer treatment.© 2026 The Author(s). Food Science & Nutrition published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Background/Objectives: Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) has become increasingly common, a trend driven by obesity, excess nutritional intake, and dysfunctional adipose tissue. While continuous dietary stress triggers adipose-tissue-derived lipotoxicity and disrupts hepatic metabolic homeostasis and provokes inflammation, the transcriptional scaffolds that mitigate this lipotoxicity remain incompletely understood. We investigated the role of zinc finger protein 90 (ZFP90) in defending against diet-induced metabolic stress and MASLD pathogenesis. Methods: Wild-type and ZFP90-knockout mice were subjected to a high-fat diet (HFD) to model nutrient-overload-induced MASLD. Hepatic phenotypes were characterized using metabolic profiling and RNA sequencing. Mechanistic dynamics were evaluated through protein interaction assays, and clinical relevance was validated using human MASLD liver biopsies. Results: ZFP90 deficiency significantly accelerated HFD-induced steatosis, systemic insulin resistance, and inflammatory infiltration. Crucially, ZFP90 depletion drove severe white adipose tissue (WAT) dysfunction, characterized by impaired lipogenic capacity, exacerbated lipolysis, and diminished local insulin signaling. This was accompanied by a pro-inflammatory secretory shift in WAT, evident from decreased Adipoq and increased Cd68/Ccl3 expression. In the liver, transcriptomic analysis revealed a profound induction of pathways related to fatty acid uptake and cytokine signaling. Mechanistically, ZFP90 forms a repressive complex with TRIM28, acting as a crucial molecular brake on NF-kB signaling. Loss of ZFP90 unleashes p65-mediated hyper-inflammation. Clinically, hepatic ZFP90 expression is significantly upregulated in patients with MASLD. Conclusions: ZFP90 is a novel regulator of immunometabolic homeostasis under dietary stress. By forming of complex with Trim28 to inhibit the nuclear translocation of NF-κB, ZFP90 suppresses pro-inflammatory responses and protects the liver from obesity-associated systemic lipotoxicity. These findings provide critical insights into the adipo-hepatic axis and highlight ZFP90 as a promising therapeutic target to mitigate the progression to metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH).
Background/Objectives: Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is an aggressive lymphoma and one of the most common hematological neoplasia. Entropy is a statistical measure of randomness that characterizes the texture of an input image and measures tissue complexity. Methods: Image processing and computer vision analysis were performed on a series of 114 diagnostic DLBCL cases and 44 reactive lymphoid tissues stained with hematoxylin and eosin (H&E). Histological entropy was measured to differentiate between reactive lymphoid tissue and DLBCL and predict clinical evolution. At protein level, immunohistochemistry analyzed Ki67, LMO2, MYC, MDM2, CDK6, E2F1, BCL2, CASP8, MYOB, TP53, cPARP, cCASP3, ISY1, TNFAIP8, CSF1R, CD163, PD-L1 and IL-10 markers. Gene expression analysis using the NanoString nCounter PanCancer Immune Profiling Panel was performed in 29 cases. Results: In comparison with reactive lymphoid tissue, DLBCL was characterized by lower entropy (7.32 ± 0.16 vs. 6.82 ± 0.44, respectively; p < 0.001). Within the DLBCL diagnostic category, higher entropy was associated with poor overall survival and death events within the first 2 years (hazard-risk = 2.4, p = 0.004) and lower entropy with a moderate and more favorable outcome (hazard-risk = 0.4, p = 0.004). High entropy was also correlated with ECOG performance status ≥ 2, lower protein expression of apoptosis markers of cPARP and cCASP3, and upregulation of specific immuno-oncology genes such as STAT3, BTK, CASP8, CD47, VCAM1, and MYD88. The prognostic value of entropy was independent of the international prognostic index (IPI), Epstein-Barr virus (EBER), and cell of origin (Hans). Conclusions: The histological evaluation of entropy is useful for the differential diagnosis of reactive lymphoid tissue and DLBCL and is a predictive factor of DLBCL prognosis.
At molecular-scale confinement, water organizes into discrete layers whose collective rearrangements control its phase behavior. Building on the well-established oscillations of pressure, diffusivity, and other thermodynamic quantities with channel height h, we show that these oscillations originate from two distinct microscopic transition pathways in the hydrogen-bond (HB) network. Using extensive molecular dynamics simulations, we identify a constant-layer phase transition (CLPT), in which freezing develops continuously within a fixed number of layers via the gradual strengthening of intralayer HBs, and a variable-layer phase transition (VLPT), in which layer-splitting instability abruptly collapses the global HB network and melts the ice as the layer number changes. These mechanisms alternate with an increase in confinement height, producing periodic freezing-melting cycles and a ρ-h phase diagram composed of integer-layer ice bands bounded by CLPT and VLPT lines. Motivated by this picture, we develop a minimal Landau free energy model in which the quadratic coefficient oscillates with channel height, encoding geometric commensurability between molecular size and confinement. This oscillatory Landau framework qualitatively reproduces the simulated phase boundaries and demonstrates that layering acts as an active thermodynamic field governing ordering transitions in strongly confined liquids.© 2026 American Chemical Society.
Population differences in allergy prevalence and other immune-mediated disease risk suggest underlying variation in immune and metabolic regulation. It remains poorly understood how these differences are reflected in proteomic profiles and linked to systemic metabolism.We examined Finnish (FIN) and Russian (RUS) adolescents aged 13-21 years from populations with contrasting allergy risk. Protein profiles were measured using the Olink proximity extension assay platform in serum (n = 110). We used unstimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) supernatants (n = 81) as well as paired PBMC culture supernatants from medium-only control and Acinetobacter lwoffii-stimulated conditions (n = 80 donors). The data were integrated with serum metabolomics, matched PBMC transcriptomics, and allergen-specific IgE. Differential analyses employed age- and sex-adjusted linear models (limma), with false discovery rate control. For metabolite-protein associations, age- and sex-adjusted rank-based partial correlations were used.The strongest differences were observed in unstimulated PBMC secretomes. FIN participants showed higher basal secretion of inflammatory cytokines and chemokines, including IFN-γ, IL-17A, and CXCL9. This was consistent with a broader low-grade inflammatory PBMC secretory phenotype. RUS participants showed higher levels of a few proteins, including 4E-BP1, CASP-8, and TWEAK. Overall, serum proteomic differences were modest. They involved largely nonoverlapping proteins, indicating that PBMC-derived secretion and serum capture distinct proteomic compartments. Acinetobacter stimulation revealed divergent responses, with stronger induction of selected inflammatory and chemotactic mediators in FIN than in RUS. Metabolite-protein associations were more evident in RUS than in FIN, with taurine-related metabolites positively and cAMP-related signals negatively associated with several serum proteins.Together, these findings show that FIN and RUS adolescents with contrasting allergy risk display distinct immunometabolic profiles. FIN adolescents showed a broader pro-inflammatory PBMC secretory phenotype, whereas stronger serum metabolite-protein coupling was observed in RUS adolescents.© 2026 The Author(s). Allergy published by European Academy of Allergy and Clinical Immunology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Early diagnosis of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is hindered by a lack of reliable biomarkers. This study sought to identify and evaluate diagnostic plasma protein biomarkers for SLE. We analyzed plasma protein profiles, polygenic risk scores (PRS), and clinical data from 544 SLE cases and 48,036 controls in the UK Biobank. Using LASSO regression, we identified 35 high-confidence SLE-associated proteins and derived a protein risk score (ProtRS). The ProtRS model achieved exceptional diagnostic performance (AUC = 0.91), significantly outperforming models based on PRS or clinical factors alone. Notably, a cost-optimized 5-protein panel (TRIM21, SOD2, KLK3, IL15, ADIPOQ) retained high accuracy (AUC = 0.82) while reducing costs by ~87%. ProtRS also demonstrated the highest population attributable fraction (96.34%), underscoring its dominant contribution to SLE burden. This study establishes a protein-driven framework for early SLE detection, offering tiered diagnostic solutions to balance accuracy and cost. The findings underscore the translational potential of protein biomarkers in bridging theoretical research and clinical practice.Copyright: © 2026 Lv et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Deubiquitinating enzymes (DUBs) are critically involved in diabetic cardiomyopathy (DCM), yet the function of OTU domain-containing protein 7B (OTUD7b), a recently identified DUB, in DCM remains unknown. Here, we identified that OTUD7b expression was significantly elevated in cardiomyocytes from both type 1 and type 2 diabetic mouse hearts. Cardiomyocyte-specific deletion of OTUD7b ameliorated cardiac dysfunction, hypertrophy, and fibrosis in diabetic mice, without affecting systemic hyperglycemia. Mechanistically, combining ubiquitinome and interactome analyses, we identified transforming growth factor β-activated kinase 1 (TAK1) as a direct substrate of OTUD7b in cardiomyocytes. Under diabetic conditions, OTUD7b binds to TAK1 via its zinc finger domain and catalyzes K48-linked deubiquitination at the K346 of TAK1, thereby enhancing TAK1 protein stability. This OTUD7b-mediated stabilization increased the levels of both TAK1 and p-TAK1, which led to hyperactivation of the TAK1-MAPK (JNK/p38) axis, subsequently promoting extrinsic apoptosis and inflammatory responses in cardiomyocytes. Crucially, cardiomyocyte-specific reconstitution of a deubiquitination-resistant TAK1-K346R mutant in diabetic mice completely abolished the cardioprotective effects of OTUD7b deficiency, confirming that OTUD7b drives DCM primarily through deubiquitinating TAK1 at K346. Taken together, our study unveils a novel OTUD7b-TAK1 axis in cardiomyocytes driving diabetic heart injury and positions OTUD7b as a promising therapeutic target for DCM.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to The Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Sciences and Chinese Pharmacological Society.
Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a nonspecific autoimmune disease, the etiology and pathogenesis of which remain unclear. Identifying new disease targets could inform clinical diagnosis and treatment.We integrated single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and bulk transcriptome data from UC patients. We screened key biomarkers and constructed a nomogram diagnostic model through three machine learning algorithms (LASSO, SVM-RFE, and Boruta). In situ validation was conducted on mucosal tissue sections from clinical UC and healthy controls using multiplex immunofluorescence (mIF). To investigate the intracellular mechanisms by which RNF213 regulates Tregs, we employed scTenifoldKnk and CellChat analyses. Potential targeted compounds were predicted based on the DSigDB and HERB databases.Five UC-specific ubiquitination biomarkers were identified: ZC3H12A, ENC1, RNF213, MAP3K5, and RMND5A. Among them, RNF213 demonstrated superior diagnostic performance with an AUC greater than 0.9 in both training and validation cohorts. Single-cell localization and in situ mIF quantification indicated that RNF213 was enriched in mucosal Tregs from UC patients. RNF213+ Tregs were increased in UC compared with healthy controls. In-silico RNF213 perturbation analysis suggested that RNF213-enriched Tregs may be associated with transcriptional programs related to mitochondrial proton transport and ATP synthesis. CellChat analysis further predicted altered ligand-receptor interaction patterns among RNF213+ Tregs and other immune cell populations, including monocytes, macrophages, and B cells.This study identifies RNF213 as a biomarker enriched in UC-associated mucosal Tregs. RNF213+ Tregs may represent a transcriptionally and spatially distinct Treg subset associated with inflammatory activity in UC.Copyright © 2026 Li, Wu, Yang, Zhou, Chen, Ren, Li, Ma, Miao, Jia and Miao.
Brg1 is a core ATPase subunit of the SWItch/Sucrose Non-Fermentable (SWI/SNF) chromatin-remodeling complex that regulates DNA accessibility for RNA polymerase II (Pol II), transcription factors, and DNA repair enzymes. Phosphoproteomic profiling of highly malignant ovarian clear cell carcinoma (OCCC) cell lines revealed reduced levels of several SWI/SNF components and decreased Brg1 phosphorylation within its histone-binding region. Prior work showed that phosphorylation-mimic and phosphorylation-deficient mutants alter chromatin-silencing factors, producing chromatin condensation and decondensation, respectively. Here, we performed RNA-seq in Brg1-deficient JHOC-5 cells and in isogenic cells expressing Brg1-WT, phosphorylation-mimic brg1-S1452D, or phosphorylation-deficient brg1-S1452A. PCA and hierarchical clustering separated brg1-S1452A from the other lines, indicating a strong transcriptional impact of Ser1452 dephosphorylation. JHOC-5 and brg1-S1452A shared altered expression of Pol II-promoter-regulated genes. Apoptosis genes (BCL2, FGFR2, ZC3H12A, and NFKBIA) showed reciprocal expression between brg1-S1452D and brg1-S1452A, consistent with increased and decreased apoptosis, respectively. Genes linked to cell adhesion/migration and neuronal development also differed, accompanied by reduced cell circularity in brg1-S1452A. Overall, Brg1 phosphorylation at Ser1452 shapes SWI/SNF-mediated chromatin remodeling to regulate transcriptional programs controlling apoptosis and cell morphology.© 2026 Molecular Biology Society of Japan and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Large B-cell lymphoma with IRF4 rearrangement (LBCL-IRF4) predominantly affects children and young adults (CAYA) and presents as localized disease with excellent prognosis. Although most tumors harbor IRF4 rearrangements (IRF4-R), the existence of cryptic rearrangements has been suggested. Whether IRF4-R LBCL in adults represents the same biological entity remains unclear. To address this question, 35 CAYA patients diagnosed with LBCL-IRF4 and 7 adult (>40-year-old) LBCL with IRF4-R were investigated by an integrative molecular approach. Targeted sequencing structural variant analysis (SV-NGS) confirmed the IRF4-R in 84% of investigated cases. In CAYA, an enrichment (55% vs 29% in adults) of translocations involving IGH, with a breakpoint cluster 3' to IRF4 (EXOC2) was observed, including a cryptic insertion of IGHM-IGHJ5 into IRF4 locus. Novel translocations, IRF4::MIR142 in two CAYA (7%) and IRF4::BATF in one adult, were discovered. Whole-exome sequencing analysis identified unreported mutations in LBCL-IRF4 as YY1 and ZC3H12A (11% each). The high incidence of mutations affecting the B-cell receptor/NF-KB pathways in LBCL-IRF4 was confirmed in cases with diffuse component only. None of the CAYA tumors were classified by LymphGen tool. Adult IRF4-R LBCL showed higher levels of genetic complexity and a distinct mutational profile with mutations on KMT2D and DTX1 (43% each), and MYD88-L265P (29%), and were predicted as EZB or MCD (29% each). These differential genetic features were in line with different clinical presentations (extranodal involvement and advanced stage). In conclusion, IRF4-R architecture and mutational profile differ according to age, supporting that not all cases should be classified as LBCL-IRF4.Copyright © 2026 American Society of Hematology.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42448519
Atherosclerosis is a vascular disease characterized by lipid deposition, chronic inflammation, and cell death. Necroptosis, a form of programmed necrosis, plays a critical role in atherosclerosis progression. This study investigates the expression of the deubiquitinating enzyme OTUD7B in atherosclerosis and its mechanism in regulating vascular injury via the RIPK1-mediated necroptosis pathway.An atherosclerosis model was established in mice fed a high-fat diet combined with partial carotid ligation. OTUD7B and necroptosis-related proteins RIPK1, RIPK3, and phosphorylated MLKL (p-MLKL) were detected in arterial tissues. In vitro, a necroptosis model was induced in human aortic smooth muscle cells (HA-SMCs) using the TSZ protocol. OTUD7B was knocked down to assess cell viability, inflammatory cytokine levels, and necroptosis. OTUD7B knockdown and RIPK1 co-overexpression were employed to validate its protective effects and dependency in vivo.OTUD7B was significantly upregulated in plaques of atherosclerosis mice, concomitant with increased expression and phosphorylation of RIPK1 and RIPK3, as well as elevated p-MLKL levels. TUNEL staining and ELISA confirmed elevated necroptosis and inflammation. In vitro, OTUD7B knockdown markedly alleviated HA-SMC injury, suppressed the expression and phosphorylation of necroptosis markers, and reduced IL-1β/TNF-α release. In vivo OTUD7B knockdown attenuated plaque formation, lipid deposition, necroptosis, and inflammation. Mechanistically, RIPK1 overexpression significantly reversed the protective effects of OTUD7B knockdown, restoring RIPK1/RIPK3 phosphorylation and downstream signaling, indicating its functional dependency on the RIPK1 pathway. Co-immunoprecipitation further confirmed a direct OTUD7B-RIPK1 interaction, facilitating downstream signaling activation.OTUD7B exacerbates necroptosis and inflammation in vascular smooth muscle cells by activating the RIPK1-RIPK3-MLKL axis, thereby playing a detrimental role in AS. This study identifies OTUD7B as a potential therapeutic target for atherosclerosis intervention.© 2026 Yu, Wang, Li and Zhang.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42344925 is a review article
Arsenic, commonly found as an environmental pollutant, poses significant health threats and has become a worldwide public health concern. Extended exposure to arsenic is linked to the development of multiple cancers, particularly bladder cancer. In this study, a rat bladder tumor model was established by combined administration of N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU) and sodium arsenite (NaAsO₂), with MNU serving as a carcinogen and NaAsO₂ as a promoter. Additionally, we constructed arsenic-treated cell model using the SV-HUC-1 human uroepithelial cell line, which was subjected to NaAsO₂ treatment for 40 weeks. This study confirmed that arsenic promoted bladder tumorigenesis induced by MNU in rats. The expression of PLCE1 protein was significantly upregulated in arsenic-treated bladder epithelial cells, and the inhibition of PLCE1 effectively ameliorated the arsenic associated malignant phenotype. Mechanistically, the elevated protein levels of PLCE1 were jointly regulated by OTUD7B-mediated deubiquitination and SENP1-mediated deSUMOylation. Notably, SENP1-mediated deSUMOylation further promoted the deubiquitination modification of PLCE1. Functional experiments demonstrated that either the inactivation of OTUD7B enzyme activity (C194S mutation) or the knockdown of SENP1 significantly alleviated the malignant behavior of bladder epithelial cells induced by inorganic arsenic. This "dual-modification" model provides a new paradigm for studying the carcinogenic mechanisms of environmental toxicants.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42330294
Lung cancer bone metastasis presents a major clinical challenge due to therapeutic resistance and severe morbidity. Although disrupting tumor-bone microenvironment crosstalk is a promising strategy, clinically actionable targets remain limited. Here, by analyzing bulk RNA sequencing data from bone metastatic tumors across multiple cancer types, we identified PARP10 as a gene consistently upregulated in bone metastases. High PARP10 expression in primary tumors was correlated with poor patient survival. Functional studies demonstrated that PARP10 promoted lung cancer growth and bone metastasis both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, multi-omics integrated analyses revealed that PARP10 deletion induced DNA damage and oxidative stress, and upregulated BCAT2 expression in a MYC-dependent manner to enhance BCAA catabolism. This metabolism exerts an adaptive compensatory effect on tumor cells via boosting mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation, yet depletes bone microenvironmental BCAA and consequently suppresses osteoclast differentiation, thereby inhibiting bone metastasis. Importantly, pharmacological inhibition of PARP10 with OUL232 mitigated bone metastatic burden in mice without observable toxicity, demonstrating its therapeutic potential by concurrently inducing tumor cell apoptosis and disrupting the pro-metastatic niche. Our findings establish PARP10 as a central regulator of a targetable metabolic competition axis and propose its inhibition as a dual-mechanism strategy that simultaneously attacks tumor cells and disrupts the pro-metastatic niche.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42560011 is a review article
NLRC3 serves as a critical negative regulator of inflammatory signalling pathways and is implicated in the pathogenesis of multiple disorders, including inflammatory diseases and malignancies. However, the specific functions and underlying mechanisms of NLRC3 in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) development remain largely elusive. Here, we report that the expression of NLRC3 was downregulated in HCC tissues and was associated with poor prognosis. Mice deficient in NLRC3 were hypersusceptible to chemically induced hepatocarcinogenesis, and NLRC3 exerted a tumour-suppressive function during HCC development by inhibiting the TRAF6/MYC/NF-κB signalling cascade. Mechanistically, the NLRC3-HSP90 interaction competitively inhibited the binding of the HSP90 chaperone to TRAF6/MYC and impaired the K63-linked ubiquitination and stabilization of the TRAF6/MYC proteins. In the absence of NLRC3, TRAF6 and MYC reciprocally regulated the expression of the other and triggered a TRAF6-MYC positive feedback loop that accelerated the progression of HCC. Our study reveals a novel functional link between NLRC3 and MYC signalling and indicates that HSP90 is a potential target for hindering the progression of NLRC3-deficient HCC.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
NOD-like receptor (NLR) family CARD domain containing 3 (NLRC3), an intracellular member of the NLR family, is a negative regulator of both immune cell modulation and tumor cell proliferation. However, the role of NLRC3 and the mechanisms underlying its effect on the tumor immune microenvironment remain unclear. In this study, we report that NLRC3 promotes antitumor immunity by specifically negatively regulating the infiltration and immunosuppressive function of monocytic myeloid-derived suppressor cells (M-MDSCs). Mechanistically, NLRC3 inhibits the stimulator of interferon genes (STING) signaling pathway, leading to reduced expression of programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) and CCR2 in M-MDSCs, thereby limiting the infiltration and immunosuppressive function of M-MDSCs. Notably, overexpression of NLRC3 in combination with the STING agonist c-GAMP significantly inhibited tumor growth. These findings reveal a critical role for NLRC3 in modulating the immune microenvironment and provide insights into the optimization of NLRC3-targeted therapeutics.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to CSI and USTC.
In order to reveal the molecular response characteristics of different tissues of Megalobrama amblycephala under ammonia nitrogen stress, the liver, gill, muscle, kidney and brain tissues of juvenile Megalobrama amblycephala (12.05 ± 0.04 g) under 25 mg/L ammonium chloride stress were used as the research objects. The transcriptome sequencing technology was used to systematically analyze the transcriptional expression changes. A total of 204.42 Gb transcription data were obtained, and a total of 3039 DEGs were detected, of which 1331 genes were up-regulated and 1708 genes were down-regulated. Ten DEGs were randomly selected for quantitative qRT-PCR analysis, and the results confirmed that the transcriptome results were reliable. Multi-organ synergy analysis suggested that overlapping DEGs (e.g., ZNF239, DMBT1, NLRC3, MHC-I, and CCL8) may exhibit similar or opposing regulatory patterns across organs, potentially reflecting complementary and coordinated mechanisms in immune regulation, inflammatory responses, energy allocation, and detoxification strategies among organ systems. GO and KEGG pathway enrichment analysis of differentially expressed genes showed that ammonia nitrogen mainly affected immune inflammation-related processes, material transport and degradation, protein homeostasis maintenance, oxidative stress defense, membrane lipid metabolism remodeling, and energy metabolism regulation. In different tissues, genes related to specific functions are enriched according to their physiological roles: in the liver, genes related to detoxification and damage clearance are enriched; in the gill, genes related to barrier defense and antioxidant/detoxification are enriched; in the kidney, genes related to damage response and metabolic regulation are enriched; in the brain, genes related to membrane lipid homeostasis and protective stress are enriched; and in the muscle, genes related to energy metabolism and structural function adjustment are enriched. This study elucidated the multi-tissue response characteristics of Megalobrama amblycephala under ammonia nitrogen stress at the transcriptome level, providing fundamental data and references for further clarifying the mechanisms of ammonia nitrogen toxicity in fish and screening stress-responsive marker genes.
Human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 (HTLV-1) is the causative agent of adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATLL) and the neuroinflammatory disease, HTLV-1-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP). The HTLV-1 Tax regulatory protein plays a critical role in HTLV-1 persistence and pathogenesis; however, the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. Here we show that Tax dynamically regulates mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) and membrane potential to trigger mitochondrial dysfunction. Tax is recruited to damaged mitochondria through its interaction with the IKK regulatory subunit IKBKG/NEMO and directly engages the ubiquitin-dependent PINK1-PRKN/parkin pathway to induce mitophagy. Tax also recruits autophagy receptors CALCOCO2/NDP52 and SQSTM1/p62 to damaged mitochondria to induce mitophagy. Furthermore, Tax requires PRKN to limit the extent of CGAS-STING1 activation and suppress type I interferon (IFN) induction. HTLV-1-transformed T-cell lines and PBMCs from HAM/TSP patients exhibit hallmarks of chronic mitophagy, and inhibition of PRKN in HTLV-1-transformed cell lines downregulates p19 Gag expression and induces cell death. Collectively, our findings suggest that Tax manipulation of the PINK1-PRKN mitophagy pathway represents a new HTLV-1 immune evasion strategy important for maintaining viral gene expression and cell survival.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; ACTB: actin beta; ATLL: adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma; BafA1: bafilomycin A1; BECN1: beclin 1; CALCOCO2: calcium binding and coiled-coil domain 2; CCCP: carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone; CGAS: cyclic GMP-AMP synthase; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; DOX: doxycycline; GFP: green fluorescent protein; DNM1L/DRP1: dynamin 1 like; HAM/TSP: HTLV-1-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis; HSPD1/HSP60: heat shock protein family D (Hsp60) member 1; HTLV-1: Human T-cell leukemia virus type 1; IFN: interferon; IkB: inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B; IKBKG/NEMO: inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase regulatory subunit gamma; IKK: IkB kinase; IRF3: interferon regulatory factor 3; KO: knockout; LAMP2: lysosome associated membrane protein 2; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MT-CO2: mitochondrially encoded cytochrome c oxidase II; mtDNA: mitochondrial DNA; mtROS: mitochondrial reactive oxygen species; NAC: N-acetylcysteine; NBR1: NBR1 autophagy cargo receptor; NFKB: nuclear factor kappa B; OPTN: optineurin; PBMCs: peripheral blood mononuclear cells; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; qRT-PCR: quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction; RFP: red fluorescence protein; ROS: reactive oxygen species; SAR: selective autophagy receptor; SQSTM1: sequestosome 1; STING1: stimulator of interferon response cGAMP interactor 1; TAX1BP1: Tax1 binding protein 1; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TMRM: tetramethylrhodamine methyl ester; TOMM20: translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20; Ub: ubiquitin; VCL: vinculin; WT: wild-type.
Vasodilation is a defence mechanism during inflammation and infection that is regulated by nitric oxide produced by endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) and the generation of endothelium-dependent hyperpolarization. Several viral infections have been shown to alter vascular biology, but effects of bacterial pathogens are unclear. Here using an ex vivo blood vessel model and human primary endothelial cells, we show that Klebsiella pneumoniae, a prevalent bloodstream pathogen, inhibits vasodilation pathways. The type VI secretion system (T6SS) effector VgrG4 activates the mitochondrial receptor NLRX1, which leads to increased mitochondrial reactive oxygen species and phosphorylation of the eNOS inhibitory site by the kinase PKCβ, which in turn reduces eNOS activity. K. pneumoniae capsule polysaccharide also activates the phosphatase PP2Ac, which reduces phosphorylation of the eNOS activation site. VgrG4-induced mitochondrial reactive oxygen species attenuate endothelium-dependent hyperpolarization by impairing signalling of the Ca2+-activated K+ channel axis. This work reveals that T6SS activity can modulate host vascular biology by targeting eNOS post-translational modifications.© 2026. The Author(s).
Urinary tract infections (UTIs) are among the most common bacterial infections, yet the genetic factors influencing susceptibility remain poorly understood. We performed a genome-wide association study of recurrent UTI involving 1,860,836 individuals (213,869 cases and 1,646,967 controls). We identified 36 independent non-HLA genome-wide significant loci encoding kidney epithelial and immune response genes and demonstrated that some loci have sex-specific effects. Integrative functional annotation, expression and protein quantitative trait locus colocalization, and single-cell multi-omic analyses revealed that UTI risk alleles preferentially modulated gene expression in kidney, ureter, and bladder epithelia. Multi-omic prioritization converged on a number of pathogenic pathways: epithelial barrier and mucosal glycocalyx defense (PSCA, UMOD, CLPTM1L, FUT2), innate immune regulation (FES, PTPRC, NEK7, HOTAIR, NFATC1, BTN3A2), infection resolution and regulated cell death (STK3, CASP7, TAX1BP1, ZFP36L2), epithelial identity maintenance (GLIS2, CLDN10, ZFHX3, SPDEF, MPP7), urinary tract development (FGFR2, BMP7, HGF, MET, HOXA9, TSHZ2, WNT7B/LINC00899), and nutritional immunity through iron sequestration (SLC11A2, FAM210B, RPS10). Approximately one-third of loci colocalized with gene expression in kidney tubules, suggesting direct modulation of epithelial host-defense programs. Among all loci, PSCA, which encodes a GPI-anchored epithelial surface protein expressed in the kidney papilla and urinary tract epithelia, emerged as the strongest candidate causal gene. We demonstrated that PSCA was secreted into urine, bound uropathogenic E. coli, and inhibited bacterial growth in vitro, implicating it as a constitutive epithelial defense factor. We also demonstrated that while PSCA was protective against urinary infections and duodenal ulcers, it was associated with increased risk of bladder, prostate, and gastric cancers, suggesting antagonistic pleiotropy between mucosal defenses and oncogenesis. Together, our findings define the polygenic architecture of UTI susceptibility, highlighting epithelial surface defense, innate immune regulation, developmental patterning, and nutritional immunity as central components of host defense, providing a new framework for host-directed, non-antibiotic interventions.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42453772 is a review article
The progression of colorectal cancer (CRC) is highly dependent on tumor angiogenesis, a process primarily regulated by hypoxia-inducible factor HIF-1α. This study focuses on the mechanistic role of protein arginine methyltransferase 6 (PRMT6) in CRC angiogenesis and reveals that PRMT6 is significantly overexpressed in CRC tissues, stabilizing HIF-1α via the autophagy-lysosome pathway. Specifically, PRMT6 catalyzes the asymmetric dimethylation of HIF-1α at arginine 463, which disrupts its interaction with the autophagy-related protein TAX1BP1, thereby preventing its degradation. In vivo experiments demonstrate that PRMT6 silencing reduces HIF-1α stability, decreases vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA) expression, and markedly suppresses tumor angiogenesis and growth. This study identifies the PRMT6-HIF-1α axis as a novel therapeutic target for CRC and suggests that targeting this pathway may facilitate the development of precision anti-angiogenic therapies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Coccidioidomycosis, also known as Valley Fever, is a fungal disease endemic to the Americas that kills hundreds annually, yet the host factors that lead to increased risk of life-threatening dissemination of coccidioidomycosis remain poorly understood. We assembled the largest comprehensively sequenced coccidioidomycosis cohort to date, comprising 795 individuals with laboratory confirmed coccidioidomycosis and clinical disease severity phenotyping, many with paired whole blood genomic and transcriptomic data. Individuals with greater than 50% African genetic ancestry have increased risk for disseminated coccidioidomycosis (DCM) cases (OR=13.37, p=1.08×10-18), reflecting ancestry-associated differences in allele frequencies at immune loci. Transcriptomic profiling (n=267) revealed upregulation of interferon-inducible genes IFI44 and IFI44L, the fungal recognition receptor CLEC4D, and pro-inflammatory protein S100A12, with sex-specific expression differences in immune cell composition. Gene-burden testing identified NOD-like receptor NLRX1 as the only gene carrying significantly more damaging rare variants than expected by chance (p=5.85×10-4). We identified a rare missense variant, NLRX1 p.Arg252Trp (rs145644388), in five patients with DCM that represents a founder variant: all carriers share African local genetic ancestry and carry 0.6-1.1 centimorgans of identical-by-descent sequence, indicating origin from a common ancestor. In gnomAD, NLRX1 p.Arg252Trp shows has higher allele frequency in African (AF=0.00615) compared to European (AF= 2.25×10-5) populations, directly linking this rare variant to population-level African genetic ancestry enrichment in DCM. NLRX1 disruption impairs LC3-associated phagocytosis, an antifungal mechanism in macrophages. Together, these findings reveal both immune gene expression dysregulation and rare-variant architectures associated with African genetic ancestry underlying severe coccidioidomycosis and identify new targets for risk stratification and treatment.
Intestinal transcriptomic data encompass substantial value in studying inflammatory bowel disease. By analyzing intestinal gene expression profiles, this study aimed to discover transcripts exhibiting diagnostic efficacy for IBD. Intestinal transcriptomic data from 1,458 patients with Crohn's disease (CD), 1,211 patients with ulcerative colitis (UC), and 674 healthy controls were acquired by integrating seven datasets with accession numbers GSE66407, GSE193677, GSE126124, GSE83687, GSE75214, GSE36807, and GSE16879. Then, the DEGs in IBD were analyzed by ML methods to discern transcripts that hold diagnostic power. ROC analysis identified potential biomarkers, which were subsequently tested in 16 external datasets. C2, NLRC5, S100P, PGAP3, and GPR15 emerged as prominent genes based on both RF and LASSO methods. Meanwhile, only NLRC5 and C2 had an AUC of the ROC curve greater than the 0.7 threshold in the integrated data. ROC analysis across 23 cohorts demonstrated that the AUC of C2 and NLRC5 were above 0.7 in the majority of the cohorts, particularly that for C2. However, upregulated C2 also exhibited diagnostic efficacy for autoimmune gastritis (AIG), eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE), and colorectal cancer (CRC), reflecting the substantial activation of the complement cascade in these disorders manifesting with gastrointestinal inflammation.© The Author(s) 2026.
MECOM rearrangements (MECOM-r) are high-risk events in myeloid neoplasms often cryptic or incompletely characterized by conventional karyotype analysis. We used optical genome mapping (OGM) to define the frequency and spectrum of MECOM-r in an unselected, consecutively collected cohort of individuals with high-grade myeloid neoplasms (HGMNs) and compared these findings with standard cytogenetic approaches.A total of 252 HGMN specimens, including 224 with definitive diagnoses of acute myeloid leukemia, were processed over a 2-year period using OGM, G-banded karyotyping and, in some cases, reflex fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) for the MECOM locus. Cases were retrospectively reviewed to determine whether the identification of MECOM-r by OGM refined diagnosis and/or prognosis.Our diagnostic workflow identified MECOM-r in 12 cases (4.7%), only 6 of which were identified by combined karyotype and FISH analyses, the latter for suspected chromosome 3 abnormalities. The remaining 6 cases were cryptic due to normal karyotypes, highly complex karyotypes lacking apparent chromosome 3 involvement, or culture failure and thus were identified by OGM and reflex FISH. Furthermore, OGM clarified complex architectures, resolved genetic alterations, and identified diverse partner loci, including GATA2, THADA, MYC, PHACTR1, MB21D2, XR_001744423.2, IL12A-AS1, TRIM59, CDK6, and MSI2. Detection of these structural alterations prompted diagnostic and/or risk reclassification in 5 cases.Optical genome mapping doubled the detection rate and improved the structural resolution of MECOM-r by identifying rearrangements incompletely resolved or missed by conventional cytogenetics. Implementation of OGM showed that MECOM-r can be cryptic and frequently overlooked, highlighting the value of high-resolution testing in HGMNs.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American Society for Clinical Pathology.
The innate immune protein NLRC5 plays a key role in cancer immune surveillance. Reduced NLRC5 expression is associated with a poor prognosis for many types of cancers. Previously, we showed that mice with a myeloid-specific deletion of Nlrc5 (Nlrc5mø-KO) develop gastric lymphoid lesions to Helicobacter infection resembling early-stage marginal zone lymphoma. We hypothesized that NLRC5 deficiency may promote a tumor-permissive microenvironment mediated by tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs). Consistent with this hypothesis, splenic macrophages from Helicobacter-infected Nlrc5mø-KO mice had upregulated expression of genes encoding the TAM receptor tyrosine kinases, Axl and Mertk. The levels of AXL and MERTK gene expression and MERTK phosphorylation were increased in NLRC5-/- THP-1 macrophages when compared with WT cells. In response to Helicobacter stimulation, Nlrc5-/- macrophages had significantly elevated anti-inflammatory responses (IL-10, TGF-β, Socs1, Socs3) compared with WT cells. Importantly, Nlrc5-/-macrophages showed enhanced efferocytosis and reduced antigen presentation to CD8+ T cells. Pretreatment of macrophages with AXL and MERTK inhibitors (R428, UNC2025) resulted in reduced efferocytosis and phosphorylation of downstream signaling molecules, STAT3 and ERK1/2. We propose that defective NLRC5 signaling in macrophages leads to tumor-permissive responses, thereby promoting the development of gastric lymphoid neogenesis to Helicobacter infection.© 2026 The Author(s). The FASEB Journal published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Modulating the immune microenvironment has become an emerging strategy for promoting functional bone regeneration, identifying key therapeutic targets remains challenging. Our previous work showed that Nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain-like receptor family caspase recruitment domain containing protein 5 (NLRC5) is involved in bone destruction associated with periodontitis, but its potential and mechanism in regulating bone tissue repair and regeneration have not been fully elucidated. A monocortical bone defect model was established in the mouse femur to assess the impact of NLRC5 on in situ bone healing and regeneration. Mouse bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) were isolated to evaluate the effects of NLRC5 on osteogenic differentiation, proliferation, and migration. RNA sequencing was used to explore the direct regulatory mechanism of NLRC5 on osteogenic differentiation of mouse BMSCs. Mass cytometry was employed to examine the effect of NLRC5 on the bone marrow immune microenvironment, followed by in vitro validation experiments. Loss of NLRC5 impaired the healing and regeneration of femoral bone defects in mice, and led to a high inflammatory state in the early stage of healing. The absence of NLRC5 inhibited the osteogenic differentiation ability of BMSCs, and could be restored by NLRC5 overexpression, which was achieved through activation of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/protein kinase B(PI3K/AKT) signaling pathway. Mass cytometry data revealed that NLRC5 may serve as an important factor in maintaining the differentiation and maturation of regulatory T cells (Tregs). By modulating the levels of inflammatory cytokines, NLRC5 further influences the osteogenic differentiation of BMSCs. NLRC5 serves as a key regulator and promising candidate for bone repair. NLRC5 contributes to bone regeneration through a dual mechanism: it promotes BMSCs osteogenic differentiation, at least in part via the PI3K/AKT/β-catenin signaling pathway, and indirectly modulates the local immune microenvironment to facilitate bone repair.
The innate immune system can detect infection, tissue damage, and other homeostatic disruptions to initiate an immune response, drive inflammation, and promote programmed cell death. While these responses can be beneficial in host defense, aberrant activation of inflammatory, lytic cell death pathways can be pathogenic. Emerging evidence suggests that cellular metabolic disruption can promote inflammatory cell death, but the mechanistic connections between these processes are not well understood, limiting our ability to identify regulatory nodes that can be therapeutically targeted. Here, we found that intracellular levels of the metabolic cofactor nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) were depleted in response to cell death triggers that drive pyroptosis, necroptosis, PANoptosis, and ferroptosis. However, restoring NAD+ inhibited PANoptosis but not the other forms of cell death. Mechanistically, NAD+ restoration reduced the expression of PANoptotic sensors or regulators, including the transcription factor IRF1, a critical factor for innate immune sensor priming in PANoptosis. Our findings thereby suggest that NAD+ depletion is an early cell death signaling event and that restoring NAD+ levels specifically blocks PANoptosis by suppressing priming. Hence, targeting NAD+ metabolism represents a potential therapeutic strategy for infectious and inflammatory diseases associated with dysregulated PANoptosis.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists.
Small molecule targeting of suppressive myeloid immune checkpoints remains a major challenge in cancer immunotherapy, particularly for nonenzymatic receptors lacking conventional druggable active sites. Leukocyte immunoglobulin-like receptor B4 (LILRB4/ILT3) is an immunosuppressive myeloid checkpoint implicated in tumor immune evasion, T-cell dysfunction, and resistance to immunotherapy across both solid and hematologic malignancies. Here, we report the discovery and characterization of GL-4512, a direct small molecule modulator of LILRB4 identified through a Dianthus-based temperature-related intensity change (TRIC) screening platform. Orthogonal biophysical studies, including microscale thermophoresis, surface plasmon resonance, and cellular thermal shift assays, confirmed direct target engagement with nanomolar affinity. Extensive microsecond molecular dynamics simulations combined with site-directed mutagenesis identified a previously unrecognized ligandable pocket within the flexible extracellular domain of LILRB4. Functionally, GL-4512 disrupted the immunosuppressive LILRB4-SCG2 signaling axis and suppressed downstream SHP1/SHP2 and STAT3 signaling. In patient-derived colorectal cancer and acute myeloid leukemia coculture systems, pharmacological inhibition of LILRB4 restored antitumor immune activity, enhanced IFN-γ and IL-2 production, increased cytotoxic T-cell activation, and reduced tumor cell viability. GL-4512 additionally demonstrated favorable pharmacokinetic and safety properties supporting oral in vivo administration. In immunocompetent CT26 syngeneic colorectal tumors, once-daily oral treatment significantly suppressed tumor growth and enhanced intratumoral immune activation. Collectively, these findings establish LILRB4 as a tractable target for direct small molecule immunomodulation and support therapeutic targeting of suppressive myeloid immune checkpoints for cancer using nonbiologic modalities.
Lung ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI), a significant factor contributing to early mortality following lung transplantation (LTx), is driven by molecular mechanisms that are not yet fully understood. In this study, we elucidate a crucial signaling pathway initiated by extracellular histones (ex-His), which connects mitochondrial damage to inflammatory cell death. Through the use of a murine model of lung IRI and in vitro experiments with alveolar macrophages, we demonstrate that ex-His facilitate Drp1-dependent mitochondrial fission, resulting in the release of oxidized mitochondrial DNA (ox-mtDNA) into the cytosol. Our mechanistic analysis reveals that cytosolic ox-mtDNA is detected by the transcription factor IRF1, which subsequently upregulates NLRC5 at the transcriptional level. Additionally, we identify NLRC5 as a non-canonical scaffold that is essential for the assembly of the PANoptosome, a multi-protein complex that mediates PANoptosis, an inflammatory cell death pathway that aggravates tissue damage. The clinical relevance of this pathway was then examined in lung transplant recipients. An analysis of their peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) revealed that patients who developed primary graft dysfunction (PGD) exhibited markedly elevated levels of circulating histones and cytosolic ox-mtDNA. This was associated with hyperactivation of the core signaling axis, characterized by increased Drp1 phosphorylation and elevated expression of IRF1 and NLRC5. Collectively, our study elucidates a comprehensive pathogenic cascade from an extracellular danger signal to a specific cell death program, identifying the ex-His-mitochondria-IRF1-NLRC5 axis as a critical driver of macrophage PANoptosis and a promising therapeutic target for alleviating lung IRI.© 2026. The Author(s).
DNA methylation is an established biomarker of human ageing and is used by a variety of tools to identify meaningful epigenetic signals. We investigated whether analysing CpGs grouped by transcript as functional units could generate a ranked list of transcripts most correlated with age that might otherwise be overlooked in genome-wide CpG-based studies. Here we present Epitage ( https://github.com/a00s/epitage ), a continuously updated ranked list of transcripts built from the GSE87571 dataset (714 whole-blood samples, ages 14-94 years) through intensive testing with machine-learning models. To support reproducible analyses, we developed ugPlot ( https://github.com/a00s/ugplot ), an open-source R/Shiny tool with a graphical user interface that automates model training, testing, and comparison. Initially, we identified 48 transcripts across 13 genes, with some transcripts from the genes OBSCN, PRRT1, and SPTBN4 showing better predictive performance when multiple associated CpGs were analysed together rather than individually. In contrast, for the majority of transcripts, a dominant individual CpG still showed a higher Spearman correlation with age, as seen in established ageing genes such as ELOVL2, FHL2, and TRIM59. Epitage is a transcript-ranking list based on the methylation patterns observed in the analysed dataset. It provides a reproducible framework for prioritising transcripts associated with human ageing and for guiding future epigenetic studies.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Background Cognitive symptoms after SARS-CoV-2 infection, often described as "brain fog," remain difficult to measure objectively and are biologically heterogeneous. DNA methylation may provide a stable, blood-accessible layer of information linking post-COVID immune remodeling, biological aging, and neuropsychiatric vulnerability. We re-analyzed GSE247869, a whole-blood Illumina MethylationEPIC dataset from individuals sampled six months after COVID-19 infection, to identify age-associated methylation signals with translational relevance. The present analysis was designed to characterize age-associated methylation within this post-COVID cohort, not to establish a COVID-19-specific signature or biological age acceleration. Methodology This was a cross-sectional analysis of a single post-COVID cohort, with 94 samples included in the age models and no COVID-19-negative comparator included in the analyzed model. Processed beta values were aligned to metadata, converted to M-values, and modeled at each cytosine-phosphate-guanine (CpG) using ordinary least squares with age and sex as predictors. Differentially methylated positions were corrected by Benjamini-Hochberg false discovery rate (FDR). CpGs were mapped to genes using robust annotation and Illumina manifest fallback. Gene-level signals were integrated using a multi-evidence prioritization score that incorporated statistical strength, effect size, multi-CpG support, direction consistency, known epigenetic-clock membership, and curated pathway membership. Results Within this cohort, the analysis identified 3,467 age-associated CpGs at FDR < 0.05, with an overall hypomethylation bias but focal hypermethylation at canonical aging loci. In total, 11 of 12 reference clock CpGs were recovered, including ELOVL2, FHL2, TRIM59, EDARADD, ASPA, and PDE4C. The strongest exploratory signal was enrichment of glutamatergic/N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) genes, including GRIN1, GRIN2C, GRIN2D, GRM1, GRM5, and SLC17A7. GRIN1 and GRIN2C had high integrated evidence scores and showed age-associated hypermethylation. The prioritized genes mapped interpretively to glutamatergic synapse, calcium signaling, and cAMP signaling pathways, although these complete KEGG pathways were not tested as formal enrichment categories. Conclusions This re-analysis recovered established age-associated CpGs and identified age-associated methylation enrichment near glutamatergic/NMDA genes within this post-COVID cohort. It cannot determine whether these signals are specific to COVID-19 infection, reflect accelerated biological aging, or relate to cognitive symptoms because no COVID-19-negative comparator or symptom-level cognitive phenotyping was included in the present analysis. The glutamatergic finding is hypothesis-generating, particularly because the curated set was small and no independent replication cohort was analyzed. Future longitudinal and case-control studies integrating GRIN1/GRIN2C methylation with cognitive and inflammatory phenotyping are needed. Glutamatergic and calcium-signaling pathways may be evaluated in appropriately designed mechanistic and intervention studies, including but not limited to hypotheses related to the Cheung Glutamatergic Regimen, only after independent validation and careful safety evaluation.Copyright © 2026, Cheung et al.
To enhance energy and material recovery from complex residual municipal wastes, the post-treated thermally hydrolyzed mechanically sorted organic fraction (PHSW) was evaluated through thermophilic acidogenic fermentation. Using a sequential approach, batch tests first assessed the influence of inoculum source and substrate-to-inoculum ratio on fermentative performance. Stabilized mixed sludge outperformed digested sewage sludge, increasing biohydrogen production by 46%, associated with a higher microbial diversity (Shannon index: 5.489) that favored complementarity between hydrolytic and acidogenic taxa. Despite thermal pretreatment, substrate conversion remained limited, with hydrolysis efficiencies ranging from 8% to 26%. Subsequently, semi-continuous stirred tank reactors were operated at 55 °C under different hydraulic retention times (HRT: 3, 5, and 8 days) to evaluate process performance. The highest specific hydrogen production rate was obtained at HRT of 3 days, reaching 19.6 mL H2·g-1 volatile solids·d-1 and a volatile fatty acids productivity of 3.31 g chemical oxygen demand·L-1·d-1, with butyrate as the predominant metabolite. Microbial analysis revealed a community shift from hydrogen-producers acidogens toward a syntrophic consortium, which was associated with the emergence of hydrogenotrophic methanogenic activity under mildly acidic conditions (pH 5.5-6.5). These findings highlight the potential of PHSW valorization through thermophilic acidogenic fermentation, supporting the transition toward a circular biorefinery model.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
The "one-spare and one-used" double tank configuration in secondary water supply systems (SWSSs) ensures water supply for high-rise (≥6) residential buildings. Water stagnation in storage tanks, especially spare tanks, promotes microbial growth, biofilm formation, and sediment accumulation. However, microbial characteristics across different habitats (water, loose sediment, biofilm) in these two tank types remain poorly understood. To address this gap, three residential areas along a drinking water distribution system were selected. The microbial characteristics in water, sediment, and biofilm from both used and spare tanks were systematically investigated using high-throughput sequencing and qPCR methods. Results showed slightly lower residual chlorine in spare tanks (p > 0.05). qPCR revealed high microbial biomass and diverse pathogens in sediment and biofilm from both tank types. Notably, only in spare tank biofilms was the biomass of some pathogenic microorganisms significantly higher than in used tanks (p < 0.05). In both tank types, sediment samples exhibited significantly higher Shannon and Richness indices than water and biofilm (p < 0.05), with a distinct microbial community composition. FEAST source tracking indicated low contributions of sediment and biofilm to water microbiota (6-23%), biofilm contributing about three times more than sediment. Redundancy analysis and Spearman correlation showed strong correlations between water quality parameters and bulk water microbes, but weak correlations with sediment/biofilm communities. Additionally, loose sediment was much more abundant in spare tanks, and suspended particulate matter protected adsorbed microorganisms from 0.5 mg/L residual chlorine in a simulated experiment. Given these distinct microbial characteristics, timely tank cleaning is proposed as an effective measure to ensure SWSS water safety. Overall, this study provides in-depth insights into microbial characteristics across habitats in double-tank SWSSs, offering data-driven support for water safety management.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Naematelia aurantialba is a promising basidiomycete chassis for bioproduction, yet its development is hindered by a lack of efficient genetic tools. This study established a robust genetic platform for N. aurantialba NX-20. First, protoplast regeneration was optimized to 46.16% using 20 mg/mL Lywallzyme and 0.6 M maltose. Genome-wide analysis revealed a strong G/C-ending codon preference (GC3s of 67.15%) driven primarily by natural selection, providing a basis for codon optimization. To address the common issues of genetic chimerism and fluorescence heterogeneity in transformants, a 475-bp minimal point centromere (CEN) core element was identified within a genomic GC3 valley. Integration of this CEN element into an expression vector enabled stable, autonomous episomal replication. The utility of this episomal system was validated through the heterologous expression of Vitreoscilla hemoglobin (VHb). Biochemical analysis confirmed VHb activity, which significantly enhanced cellular respiration and energy supply. In stirred-tank bioreactor fermentation, the VHb-expressing engineered strain achieved a Naematelia aurantialba polysaccharide (NAPS) yield of 25.01 g/L, representing a 44.8% increase over the wild-type strain. This versatile and stable genetic platform not only fills a critical gap in N. aurantialba research but also offers a scalable paradigm for the metabolic engineering of non-model basidiomycetes to produce high-value bioproducts.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
On May 14, 2025, a county-level Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention (China CDC) in southwestern China received a report of the sudden death of four employees of a small workshop for ceremonial papermaking, which was operating without required safety and environmental approvals. The first person who died was a woman who lost consciousness while cleaning a wastewater tank. During the next 20 minutes, three of the woman's family members, also employees, entered the tank to attempt to rescue her. All four persons, including the workshop operator's wife, the workshop operator's son, the workshop operator, and the workshop operator's daughter, died. The county China CDC launched an immediate investigation, and the Intermediate Chinese Field Epidemiology Training Program and provincial and city China CDC staff members conducted a joint, on-site investigation that included identification of cases, analysis of the gas composition, and interviews of residents of the town and physicians to identify the cause of the apparent toxic exposure. Analyses revealed that levels of the highly toxic gases hydrogen sulfide, hydrogen fluoride, and phosphine were several times higher than the maximum allowable concentrations. Clinical signs among the decedents were consistent with poisoning by these gases. Lack of personal protective equipment in a confined space and the presence of toxic gases likely led to the multiple exposures and delayed response by rescue services. Although working in confined spaces with toxic gases is a known exposure risk, these exposures continue to be reported in China and have included deaths in the papermaking industry. These deaths highlight the importance of effective regulations for papermaking workshops and administrative controls, improved supervision, and education for workers.
This study presents the development and large-scale field application of a real-time PCR assay designed for the detection of Mycoplasma agalactiae in bulk tank milk from dairy sheep farms. The assay demonstrated high analytical specificity and sensitivity, enabling reliable identification of low levels of target DNA typically present in bulk milk samples. Following analytical validation, the test was used to estimate within-herd prevalence and was applied in a regional surveillance program encompassing more than 900 sheep farms across Sardinia, Italy. The findings reveal widespread but often low-prevalence circulation of M. agalactiae within Sardinian flocks. The real-time PCR assay proved effective for identifying infected herds through a non-invasive, cost-efficient sampling matrix, underscoring its value as a practical tool for early detection and herd-level surveillance. This approach provides a scalable framework for monitoring contagious agalactia in areas with high densities of small-ruminant farms and supports the establishment of sustainable milk-based surveillance systems.© 2026. The Author(s).
Discarded tires remain a significant public health problem in tropical urban environments, serving as high-risk breeding sites for Aedes aegypti, the mosquitoes which transmit dengue, chikungunya, and Zika viruses. Identifying these habitats using ground-based surveillance methods can be resource-intensive and often misses fenced-off areas and tires on roofs. This study presents a novel approach using unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) imagery combined with deep learning to automatically detect discarded tires across the Tallo sub-district of Makassar, Indonesia, an area with historically high dengue incidence. We trained and compared U-Net++ and DeepLabV3++ convolutional neural network architectures for tire segmentation. We evaluated the models' ability to identify the locations, shapes, and spatial distribution of discarded tires in the study area. Both models demonstrated high prediction accuracy, with F1 scores of 0.87 and 0.82, respectively, with modestly superior performance by the U-Net++. The strong detection performance was largely attributable to the distinctive circular morphology and spectral characteristics of tires in aerial imagery, though this same characteristic occasionally led to false positives when encountering tire-mimicking objects such as outdoor air conditioning condenser units, water tank lids, and similar circular items. Identifying, locating, and eliminating potential larval breeding sites is a primary strategy for the control of Aedes aegypti -transmitted viruses. Accurate, rapid detection of high-risk Aedes aegypti breeding sites from UAV imaging is a promising new tool to improve vector control.
Mycoplasma genitalium has emerged as a clinically significant etiology of sexually transmitted infections that often establishes persistent infections within the female reproductive tract. Although the recruitment of neutrophils is a characteristic feature of the cervicitis associated with M. genitalium, the molecular mechanisms that govern this response at the mucosal interface remain incompletely defined. In this study, the infection of endocervical epithelial cells with M. genitalium was observed to induce a robust increase in IL-33 protein that localized within the nucleus. The transcriptional induction of the gene encoding IL-33 was mediated by a signaling axis involving Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) and TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1), which led to the nuclear translocation and promoter binding of Interferon Regulatory Factor 1 (IRF1) and 7 (IRF7). Within the nucleus, IL-33 physically complexed with the p65 subunit of NF-κB. This interaction facilitated the recruitment and occupancy of p65 at the promoters of the genes encoding CXCL1 and IL-8, thereby specifically amplifying the secretion of these chemokines. Functional assays demonstrated that the secretion of chemokines dependent on nuclear IL-33 was required for the adhesion, chemotaxis, and oxidative activation of neutrophils. These findings identify a pathogenic mechanism whereby M. genitalium exploits the nuclear function of IL-33 to drive chronic neutrophilic inflammation and contribute to the immunopathology of the reproductive tract.Copyright © 2026 Tian, Li, Xie, Zhang, Hu, Huang, Du, Li and Xie.
Landfills serve as a significant source of microplastics (MPs) contamination, affecting the surrounding air, water, and agricultural soils. This study examined the seasonal variation of MPs in leachate, river water, and soil at Sisdole (old) and Banchare Dada (new) landfill sites (LFSs). MPs greater than 90 μm were enumerated using a stereomicroscope, and polymer identification was performed on a representative subset of particles using micro-Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy. Average MPs concentrations were higher at the new landfill, with values of 56 ± 07 MPs/L at Banchare Field and 44 ± 27 MPs/L at Banchare Tank, compared to 28 ± 11 MPs/L at Sisdole Pond in the old landfill. In river water, MPs increased downstream: 17 ± 12 MPs/L at Sisdole Upstream, 28 ± 22 MPs/L at Sisdole Downstream, and 34 ± 06 MPs/L at Banchare Downstream. Soil contamination was highest at Sisdole (351 ± 173 MPs/100 g), followed by Banchare (214 ± 70 MPs/100 g) and Banchare-Sisdole (157 ± 48 MPs/100 g). Statistical analyses, including a paired t-test for river water and a two-way ANOVA for soil samples, showed significant differences in MPs concentrations between the monsoon and premonsoon seasons in both river water and soil. Fibers were the dominant form of MPs in leachate, river water, and soil, whereas fragments were mainly within the 90-500 μm size range and fibers within the 1000-5000 μm range. Polyethylene terephthalate/polyester (PET/PES) accounted for 50% of the identified polymers, followed by polypropylene (PP, 20%), polyethylene (PE, 10%), and other polymers (20%). The polymeric composition suggests that textiles and degraded plastic packaging are the possible sources of MPs. Overall, the study identifies landfill-derived MPs as a possible source of pollution in nearby river and agricultural lands, underscoring the urgent need for measures, such as leachate treatment and improved landfill management practices by the relevant authorities.Copyright © 2026 Yubraj Dahal et al. Journal of Toxicology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
What is the sustained impact of master's programs in reproductive science and medicine in meeting the growing global demand for expertise in this field?This study provides quantitative data supporting the value of master's degree programs in providing students with educational experiences to meet the increasing demands for a well-trained workforce of reproductive scientists.Master's programs focused on reproduction-ranging from animal science, clinical embryology, and reproductive health and biology-are expanding around the globe, providing students with a degree beyond the bachelor's or its equivalent and are an alternative or bridge to other advanced degrees. However, the impact of these programs in creating a well-trained next generation of reproductive scientists to support workforce needs and advance the field has not been systematically investigated.We performed a web search to define the landscape of master's programs offered across the globe. We also convened a meeting (Global Perspectives: A Think Tank for MS Programs in Reproductive Science and Medicine at Northwestern University on 24-25 June 2024) to establish a network between four master's programs (two in the United States and two in Europe), including the Master at Northwestern University (USA), at University of Dundee (United Kingdom), at Colorado State University (USA), and at the University of Murcia (Spain). These programs are established at public and private institutions, are varied with respect to class size and duration, and span focus areas ranging from veterinary to human reproductive health to Assisted Reproductive Technologies (ART). We obtained and analyzed enrollment and outcome data from the four featured master's programs to determine the profile of students who pursue these master's degrees in reproductive science and determine how they contribute to the field post-degree.The study relied on self-reported data from each participating program. The programs were selected because they represent a cross-section of established master's programs in reproduction that have collectively trained almost 1000 students since 2004. We analyzed enrollment and outcome data from these four established master's programs. Programs reported on student outcomes post-degree, including job categories, job titles, employers, and other impact (e.g. publications, awards and honors, and grants and independent funding).Master's programs in reproduction and related fields are on the rise, with the number of programs having almost doubled from 73 in 2022 to 145 in 2025. The four featured programs reported on at least 9 years of retrospective data. The University of Murcia program started in 2004, Colorado State University in 2013, University of Dundee in 2014, and Northwestern in 2016. To date, these programs have trained 366, 210, 244, and 108 individuals, respectively, with average class sizes for each program ranging between 12 and 22 students. Most students across programs (81% cumulatively) are female. The programs based in the USA primarily attract US students, whereas the programs in the United Kingdom and Spain have a more global footprint. Students matriculate into programs with academic backgrounds in life sciences and related fields and have obtained prior degrees in broadly defined fields including biology, chemistry, animal sciences, and medicine. After students complete their master's degrees, they are generally continuing within the reproductive science and medicine pipeline with careers spanning: advanced training (e.g. PhD, MD, and DVM programs), clinical careers (e.g. embryology and andrology), research careers (e.g. scientist or faculty), and careers in industry and education.Our study is limited to four master's programs that were invited to the Global Perspectives: A Think Tank for MS Programs in Reproductive Science and Medicine meeting. The analysis performed here can serve as a basic template for tracking student profiles and outcomes across all existing programs, so that we can glean a more wholistic understanding of the impact of master's degrees programs in reproductive science and medicine.This study provides quantitative data supporting the value of master's degree programs in providing students with educational experiences to meet the increasing demands for a well-trained workforce of reproductive scientists. This work lays the foundation for establishing a formal consortium of master's programs in reproductive science whereby prospective data can be collected in a standardized way across programs, alumni outcomes tracked, and an educational network created. This could be of value in disciplines where there is an increasing trend toward accreditation and adherence to legal frameworks, such as reproductive medicine and embryology.This work was supported by institutional funds from the Center for Reproductive Science, the Thomas J. Watkins Endowment, and the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology at Northwestern University (F.E.D.) and the Makowski Family Endowment, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, CU Anschutz School of Medicine (T.R.K.).C.L.R.B. is Co-Editor-in-Chief of Human Reproduction; he is a faculty member and deputy program lead for one of the courses discussed in this article (Dundee) for which salary is paid by the University of Dundee. All other authors have no conflicts of interest to declare.Not applicable.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Chronic spontaneous urticaria (CSU) can be particularly burdensome for older adults. Real-world evidence regarding the use of omalizumab in this growing demographic remains limited. This study evaluated the effectiveness and safety of domestic Omalizumab for Injection (Enyitan®) in elderly patients with CSU under real-world conditions.In this retrospective, single-center, observational cohort study, 71 CSU patients aged ≥65 years with moderate-to-severe disease activity were treated with omalizumab (Enyitan®, 300 mg every 4 weeks) between January and February 2025. Primary outcome was the proportion of patients achieving well-controlled disease (UAS7 ≤ 6) at Week 24. Secondary outcomes included changes in UAS7, Itch Severity Score (ISS), Wheal Score (WS), Urticaria Control Test (UCT), and Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI). Safety was assessed via adverse events (AEs) and laboratory parameters.Of 62 patients completing the 24-week study, 88.7% achieved a UAS7 ≤ 6. ISS and WS scores similarly improved (p<0.001). UCT scores increased from 5.2±2.1 to 14.8±3.2, and DLQI scores decreased from 15.6±4.3 to 3.1±2.8 (both p<0.001). Treatment was well-tolerated; only mild, transient AEs were reported, predominantly injection-site reactions (9.7%) and headache (3.2%).Domestic omalizumab (Enyitan®) demonstrated rapid, sustained effectiveness and a favorable safety profile in elderly patients with H1-antihistamine-resistant CSU, supporting its use as a first-line biologic therapy in this vulnerable population.The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42559654 is a review article
During the phase III trial (NCT04839016), the outbreak of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) inevitably caused vunakizumab interruption in patients with psoriasis. This study extracted the data from Huashan Hospital, where almost all patients experienced drug interruption, and aimed to explore the efficacy and safety of vunakizumab in patients with moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis and the impact of treatment interruption. A total of 90 patients with moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis receiving vunakizumab (n = 65) or placebo (n = 25) were enrolled. Patients in the placebo group were switched to vunakizumab treatment at week (W)12. The 75% or more improvement in the Psoriasis Area Severity Index (PASI 75), PASI 90, and PASI 100 response rates at W12 were higher in the vunakizumab group than in the placebo group. This trend was observed at most time points over 52 weeks. Dermatology life quality index (DLQI) score, DLQI 0/1 response rate, and itch numerical rating scale score at W4, W8, and W12 were improved in the vunakizumab group compared to the placebo group. The incidence of adverse events during the induction period was numerically lower in the vunakizumab group than the placebo group. Sixty-four (98.5%) patients in the vunakizumab group experienced drug interruption, with 59 (92.2%) patients due to COVID-19 pandemic. All patients in the placebo group experienced any-cause drug interruption. In the vunakizumab group, elevated frequency of drug interruption was related to reduced PASI 75 and PASI 90 response rates at W52. Despite the high drug interruption rate in Huashan Hospital during COVID-19 pandemic, vunakizumab shows acceptable efficacy and safety for treating patients with moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis. However, the long-term efficacy of vunakizumab appears attenuated in this single-center cohort compared with the overall phase III trial population.© 2026. The Author(s).
Eczema is a prevalent, chronic skin condition that affects up to 10% of adults globally and is characterized by recurrent eczematous lesions. Intense itch is often the most burdensome symptom, leading to sleep disturbances and declining quality of life. Additionally, itch&ndash;scratch cycles perpetuate skin barrier damage and inflammation. Regular skincare with moisturizers is recognized as a cornerstone of eczema management.This study evaluated the itch relief and safety of Cetaphil&reg; Restoraderm Eczema Soothing Moisturizer (eczema moisturizer) and Cetaphil&reg; Restoraderm Eczema Rapid Relief Cream (eczema cream; Galderma Laboratories, LP, Fort Worth, TX) in individuals with eczema-prone skin.Thirty-three participants with bilateral eczema-prone skin and mild-to-moderate itch were randomized to blinded, split-body application of the products. Evaluations over 24 hours included time to onset of itch relief, grading of itch severity (11-point itch severity numerical rating scale [NRS]), self-assessment questionnaire (4-point structured scale), and safety assessments.The eczema moisturizer and the eczema cream provided rapid itch relief after a single application, with mean times to itch relief of 38 seconds and 43 seconds, respectively. Both treatments significantly reduced itch severity from baseline by 98% to 99% at 24 hours (eczema moisturizer mean NRS: 0.03; P&lt;0.0001; eczema cream mean NRS: 0.09; P&lt;0.0001). Self-assessment questionnaires demonstrated high participant satisfaction with both products after a single application.Single applications of eczema moisturizer and eczema cream were well tolerated, well perceived by participants, and provided rapid and sustained itch relief over 24 hours. &nbsp.
Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a chronic inflammatory skin disorder marked by intense pruritus and episodic flares. While nemolizumab, an interleukin-31 (IL-31) inhibitor, has demonstrated efficacy in reducing itch severity, its broader effects on skin inflammation are not fully understood.We describe a 49-year-old male with longstanding, treatment-resistant AD who began off-label therapy with nemolizumab. Within weeks of initiation, he developed a new pruritic vesiculobullous eruption localized to the palms, clinically and histologically consistent with dyshidrotic eczema. His prior AD lesions remained stable, but the new eruption prompted temporary discontinuation of nemolizumab.The patient was treated with intravenous corticosteroids, resulting in significant improvement of the dyshidrotic eczema.This case highlights the potential for nemolizumab to exacerbate AD in some patients, emphasizing the need for caution and further research on its inflammatory effects and safety in real-world settings.
Chronic Kidney Disease-associated Pruritus is a chronic itching condition experienced by patients during and between dialysis sessions. The individualised nature of the condition makes prevalence and severity difficult to measure.The study aimed to identify the prevalence of Chronic Kidney Disease-associated Pruritus amongst patients receiving dialysis in Ireland, characterise symptom burden, severity, and frequency, factors associated with worsening symptoms, and to examine patient experiences of itching.A quantitative study with a qualitative free-text element was employed.689 patients undergoing dialysis completed a national survey.Patients undergoing haemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis completed the 5-D itch scale and a qualitative assessment of itching experiences. Regression analyses examined associations between domains of the 5-D itch scale, patient clinical characteristics and the occurrence of moderate-severe itching. Content analysis was used to report qualitative findings.Sixty-two percent (85% haemodialysis; 15% peritoneal dialysis) experienced Chronic Kidney Disease-associated Pruritus; 66% reported moderate-severe itching, with body/trunk region most affected (73%); however, the scalp/face region was most associated with moderate-severe itching (OR = 2.08, 95% CI 1.11-3.870). Four themes were identified: (1) the physical impact of Chronic Kidney Disease-associated Pruritus; (2) the psychological burden of itching; (3) variability in treatment success; (4) itch resolving over time.Two-thirds of Irish patients experience moderate-severe Chronic Kidney Disease-associated Pruritus; a prevalence rate higher than international estimates. This condition is psychologically distressing - impacting sleep, overall quality of life, and risk of infection. Patients require improved clinical attention and greater pratitioner education on management of this condition.© 2026 European Dialysis & Transplant Nurses Association/European Renal Care Association.
Psoriasis is a chronic autoimmune skin disorder marked by IL-17-producing γδ T cell (γδT17) and pruritus, but immunoregulatory roles of itch-inducing neurons in this context remain unclear. This study addressed whether non-peptidergic (NP) afferents bearing the Mas-related G protein-coupled receptor D (MrgprD/NP1) and MrgprA3/NP2 subsets had differential effects on psoriasiform immunopathology. Data show human NP1 and NP2 neurons basally expressed an array of pattern recognition and cytokine receptor genes, and psoriatic human skin had a profound dysregulation of neuropeptides and their receptors. In mice, imiquimod (IMQ) application reduced the density of MrgprD+ skin afferents, whereas NP1 neuron ablation exacerbated IMQ-induced disease. Strikingly, NP1 activation using either optogenetics or β-alanine before IMQ exposure significantly reduced epidermal thickness, psoriatic clinical score, and γδT17 cell accumulation. In stark contrast, NP2 activation increased the numbers of γδT17 cells that co-expressed amphiregulin (Areg) and exacerbated IMQ-driven skin pathology. Instead, pre-emptive NP1 stimulation shifted γδ T cell profiles away from being IL-17 and Areg dominant to IL-13+ γδ T cells expressing the transcription factor GATA3 accompanied by IL-10 secretion. Importantly, IL-10 signaling blockade reversed β-alanine-induced suppression of IMQ-induced dermatitis and γδT17 cell responses. These data show that sensory neuron subsets can distinctly modulate inflammatory skin disease.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42547463 is a review article
Vulvar lichen sclerosus (VLS) is a chronic, inflammatory skin condition that can lead to vulvar itch and pain as well as challenges in sexual relationships. Yet, little research explores how couples coping with VLS navigate sexual challenges. Informed by sexual script theory and the concept of sexual script flexibility (i.e., adapting a typical sexual routine in response to a sexual problem), we aimed to examine the sexual challenges faced by couples coping with VLS and the strategies they used to cope and maintain satisfying sexual lives. A sample of 98 couples (196 individuals) independently completed two open-ended survey questions about VLS-related sexual challenges and coping strategies, which were analyzed using a reflexive thematic and abductive approach. Couples were found to cope with sexual challenges in three main ways, by 1) using sexual aids, but with varied experiences (3 subthemes), 2) focusing on the partner, for better or worse (2 subthemes), and 3) redefining the sexual relationship as a couple (4 subthemes). Within each of the three themes and nine subthemes, we discuss how couple members' coping strategies align with sexual script flexibility or not, and couples' nuanced reactions to implementing flexible strategies in their sexual lives.
Tildrakizumab is an interleukin (IL)-23 p19 inhibitor approved for the treatment of adults with moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis. This study assessed tildrakizumab effectiveness and drug survival in real-world patients with prior IL-17 inhibitor (IL-17i) experience.Patients initiated tildrakizumab (October 2018 to April 2024) at or after enrollment in the PPD™ CorEvitas™ Psoriasis Registry, an independent observational cohort of patients with psoriasis under dermatologist care in North America. Outcomes included drug survival from Kaplan-Meier analysis and changes from baseline in clinician- and patient-reported outcomes, including Psoriasis Area Severity Index (PASI), Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI), and patient-reported symptoms at 12 (± 3) months.Of 728 tildrakizumab initiators, 186 (25.5%) had prior IL-17i experience. Their mean age was 56.9 years; 54.3% were female, 137 (73.7%) had prior use of ≥ 2 biologics, including ≥ 1 IL-17i at any time, and 115 (61.8%) used an IL-17i immediately prior to tildrakizumab initiation. Over half (55.4%) had psoriatic arthritis at baseline. Baseline mean PASI was 6.0 (standard deviation [SD] (6.2) and mean DLQI was 7.2 (SD (6.8). The restricted mean tildrakizumab survival time was 27.4 months; 56.8% of initiators were persistent at 12 months. Improvements at 12 months were seen for PASI (mean 2.4, SD 4.8) and DLQI (mean 2.6, SD 5.7); 57.9%, 40.4%, and 38.9% of patients achieved PASI ≤ 3, PASI ≤ 1, and DLQI 0/1, respectively. Improvements in fatigue, skin pain, and itch were also observed.As measured by clinician- and patient-reported outcomes, tildrakizumab was effective in real-world patients in North America with extensive prior biologic experience including immediate prior IL-17i experience. The majority of IL-17i-experienced initiators persisted on treatment for at least 1 year.© 2026. The Author(s).
Endometrioid endometrial carcinoma (EEC) is the major histological type of endometrial cancer, the most common gynecological malignancies in the world, and its incidence and mortality continue to increase. However, the molecular mechanism of its occurrence and development has not been fully elucidated, which limits the development of effective treatment strategies. By integrating transcriptome data from multiple public databases and validation analysis of clinical samples, we found for the first time that E3 ubiquitin ligase TRIM39 was significantly and universally down-regulated in EEC tissues. Further functional experiments in vitro and in vivo showed that restoring TRIM39 expression effectively inhibited tumor cell proliferation, colony formation ability, migration and invasion, and reversed epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) process. Mechanistically, through co-immunoprecipitation and ubiquitination analysis, we revealed that TRIM39 directly binds to and mediates the K48-linked polyubiquitination of HOXB9, which promotes its proteasomal degradation. Critical rescue experiments confirmed that re-overexpression of HOXB9 partially reversed TRIM39-mediated tumor suppression. Taken together, this study not only identifies TRIM39 as an important novel tumor suppressor in EEC for the first time, but also illustrates a novel "TRIM39-HOXB9" protein stability axis, which provides new molecular insights into understanding the progression of EEC. TRIM39 was identified as a potential therapeutic target and prognostic biomarker for the disease.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s10616-026-01033-4.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Few germline susceptibility genes have been well established for lung cancer. We aimed to evaluate associations between germline variants in known hereditary cancer genes and lung cancer risk.We analyzed subjects of European ancestry from two datasets: 2,272 LC cases and 185,510 controls from the UK Biobank, and 824 LC cases from Rush University Medical Center (RUSH) with 56,878 population controls from the Genome Aggregation Database (gnomAD). Rare pathogenic germline variants in 123 ClinGen-curated hereditary cancer genes were first tested for lung cancer risk in the UK Biobank using gene-based burden testing (robust SKAT-O). Genes with suggestive associations were further evaluated in the RUSH/gnomAD dataset. Meta-analysis of the two datasets was performed to estimate overall evidence and pooled odds ratios.Rare germline variants in ten genes showed nominally significant associations with lung cancer in the UK Biobank (p<0.05), and TP53 showed a borderline signal (p=0.11). These genes were tested in the RUSH/gnomAD dataset, and meta-analysis identified suggestive evidence supporting eight genes associated with increased lung cancer risk (p<0.05), including three previously reported lung cancer genes (ATM, BRCA2, TP53) and five novel genes (RB1, MET, CYLD, PDGFRA, CTNNA1). In the UK Biobank incident lung cancer cohort, aggregated rare pathogenic variants in these eight genes were significantly associated with lung cancer risk and earlier age at lung cancer diagnosis, independent and complementary to smoking history at recruitment.Suggestive evidence supporting associations between rare germline variants in eight hereditary cancer genes and lung cancer were obtained from two large independent datasets.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Background: As a major regulator, methyltransferase-like 3 (METTL3) catalyzes N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification in mRNA. The m6A modifications mediated by METTL3 influence RNA splicing, nucleocytoplasmic distribution, stability, and other functions, thereby playing a vital and indispensable role in genetic regulatory network. Although several studies have shown its critical role in mRNA fate, the global pattern of mRNA methylation alteration driven by METTL3 remain unclear. Methods: Here, a HEK293T cell line with METTL3 depletion was constructed, and RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) and methylated RNA Immunoprecipitation Sequencing (MeRIP-seq) were implemented. Additionally, quantitative Reverse Transcription PCR (qRT-PCR) technology was used to confirm some of the differentially expressed genes. Result: The mRNA methylation alteration landscape was clarified and the regions altered by m6A modification due to METTL3 deletion that was annotated and characterized, with 5763 hypomethylated/269 hypermethylated genes after METTL3 silence. Several methylation-related innate anti-infection immune genes, including MYD88, RIG-1, CYLD and IRF9, were exposed through comprehensive analysis to MeRIP-seq and RNA-seq data, and these genes were principally enriched in pathogen infection and innate immune response pathways such as Shigellosis, Yersinia infection, and the HIV-1 viral life cycle. Conclusion: Our study discovered that the METTL3 association with differentially expressed genes, suggested that METTL3 and the genes it regulates might serve as targets for defense against infection.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42497068 is a review article
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is an aggressive subtype characterized by chronic inflammation with limited therapeutic options. Although thrombin activation of protease-activated receptor 1 (PAR1) promotes ubiquitin-dependent signaling and inflammatory responses in endothelial cells, its contribution to inflammatory effects in TNBC remain poorly understood. Here, we show that loss of the deubiquitinase cylindromatosis (CYLD) markedly increases basal phosphorylation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase and p65 nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) subunit to levels comparable to thrombin stimulation, without further enhancement by thrombin, indicating that CYLD primarily restrains constitutive inflammatory activity. We also show that thrombin-activation of PAR1 promotes p38 signaling through an autophosphorylation-dependent mechanism in TNBC, leading to p65 NF-κB subunit phosphorylation and nuclear accumulation independent of canonical inhibitor of κBα degradation. This non-canonical signaling drives expression of pro-inflammatory interleukin (IL) cytokines including IL-6, IL-8, IL-1α, and IL-1β. Functionally, IL-6 and IL-8 contribute to thrombin-induced TNBC proliferation and migration, respectively. Together, these findings define a novel CYLD-regulated PAR1-p38-p65 signaling axis that promotes inflammatory cytokine production and tumor-associated phenotypes such as cell proliferation and migration, identifying multiple druggable nodes for therapeutic targeting in aggressive breast cancers.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) remains a highly lethal hematologic malignancy, with relapse and therapeutic resistance largely driven by apoptosis evasion. Necroptosis, a regulated form of non-apoptotic cell death, has emerged as a potential strategy to eliminate apoptosis-resistant cancer cells; however, its upstream regulatory mechanisms in AML remain incompletely understood. Here, we identify the long non-coding RNA XIST as a previously underappreciated regulator of necroptosis-associated signaling in AML. XIST and CYLD were consistently downregulated in AML cell lines and primary patient samples, whereas miR-92a-3p was upregulated and inversely correlated with XIST and CYLD expression. Clinically, elevated miR-92a-3p expression was associated with inferior overall survival in AML patients. Functionally, endogenous activation of XIST significantly suppressed AML cell proliferation and induced G2/M cell cycle arrest without markedly increasing apoptosis. Instead, XIST overexpression increased membrane-disrupted cell death, as shown by trypan blue and Hoechst/PI staining, and induced necroptosis-like ultrastructural changes. XIST-mediated growth inhibition was partially rescued by the necroptosis inhibitor Necrostatin-1 but not by the pan-caspase inhibitor zVAD-fmk. Moreover, XIST overexpression enhanced CYLD expression and activated necroptosis-associated RIPK1/RIPK3/MLKL signaling, including increased phosphorylation of RIPK1, RIPK3, and MLKL. Mechanistically, XIST directly interacted with miR-92a-3p and negatively regulated its expression, while miR-92a-3p directly targeted CYLD. Inhibition of miR-92a-3p increased CYLD expression and recapitulated the anti-proliferative and necroptosis-associated effects of XIST. In vivo, XIST overexpression suppressed subcutaneous AML xenograft growth and enhanced necroptosis-associated signaling. Collectively, our findings suggest that XIST restrains AML progression, at least in part, by modulating the miR-92a-3p/CYLD axis and promoting necroptosis-associated cell death, highlighting a potential regulatory mechanism for overcoming apoptosis resistance in AML.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Mitochondrial outer membrane permeabilization is a pivotal event in programmed cell death by apoptosis, leading to the activation of the cysteine protease caspase-3 (CASP3) and the release of mitochondrial nucleic acids. This release triggers the activation of the Interferon Regulatory Factor 3 (IRF3) transcription factor and the subsequent IRF3-mediated type I interferon production and cell death. CASP3 ensures apoptosis remains immunologically silent, though the mechanisms are unclear. We report that CASP3 cleaves CYLD, a deubiquitinating enzyme crucial for cell fate and inflammatory signaling. This proteolysis occurs at a site distinct from the previously reported CASP8 site, which is involved in limiting cell lysis and inflammation during extrinsic apoptosis. Although cleaved CYLD retains its enzymatic activity in vitro, knocked-in cells expressing CASP3-resistant CYLD show increased interferon signaling and enhanced cell death. Thus, a proteolytic code regulates CYLD to balance inflammation during programmed cell death.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42448958 is a review article
Colorectal cancer remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality, with resistance to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) posing a major therapeutic challenge. Thymoquinone (TQ), a bioactive compound derived from Nigella sativa, exhibits anticancer activity; however, its system-level effects in colorectal cancer are not fully understood.RKO colorectal cancer cells were treated with TQ, 5-FU, or their combination for 24 h, followed by genome-wide transcriptomic profiling using oligonucleotide microarrays. Drug interaction effects were assessed using a deviation-from-additivity model. Selected genes were validated by RT-qPCR and Western blotting, and functional relevance was evaluated using bioinformatics analyses.Combined treatment induced extensive network-level reprogramming of pathways associated with apoptosis, cellular stress response, and proliferation. Although no classical transcriptional synergy was observed, the interaction between TQ and 5-FU resulted in coordinated modulation of overlapping signaling networks. Key regulatory genes, including FAS and CYLD, were linked to enhanced pro-apoptotic signaling, whereas BIRC3 and EIF2AK3 were associated with adaptive or resistance-related responses.TQ acts as a context-dependent modulator of chemotherapy response, reshaping cell death and stress-related signaling networks rather than directly enhancing cytotoxicity. These findings highlight the potential of TQ to influence therapeutic responses in fluoropyrimidine-based treatment of colorectal cancer and support further functional and in vivo validation.Copyright © 2026 Kurowska, Kruszniewska-Rajs and Strzałka-Mrozik.
Single-cell proteomics (SCP) reveals cellular heterogeneity and biological insights inaccessible to bulk analysis. Existing limitations are cost, sample loss during processing, and accessibility to state-of-the-art instrumentation. We describe a label-free SCP methodology in human tissue, combining FACS, oil-immersion cell handling, mass spectrometry, and neural-network-derived spectral libraries, which address these issues. We tested this methodology in a skin tumor syndrome, CYLD cutaneous syndrome (CCS), assessing tumor heterogeneity. Using a Bruker timsTOF HT platform, we quantified >4,000 proteins, averaging ∼700 per cell, through a cost-effective pipeline without specialised liquid handling infrastructure. By using preexisting bioinformatic tools from the scRNA-seq field, we implemented a robust analysis methodology, discriminating between macrophages, dendritic cells, and tumor keratinocytes, in an unbiased analysis of 419 CCS tumor cells. We validated the biological accuracy of cell annotations by cross referencing with each cell's FACS markers. Furthermore, we identified a novel CCS tumor-associated macrophage population, which carried a tumor microenvironment remodelling signature. Our findings demonstrate an accessible SCP technology capable of yielding novel biological discoveries in clinical tissue.© 2026 Inns et al.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565567 is a review article
[This corrects the article DOI: 10.34133/research.1018.].Copyright © 2026 Zijian Chen et al.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42560134 is a review article
The TREM2 receptor is a well-known rheostat for inflammation and immunity, but its role in host defense against parasitic infection is only just emerging. We investigated the function of TREM2 during acute Toxoplasma gondii infection by comparing TREM2-deficient and C57BL/6 wild-type (WT) mice during intraperitoneal infection with type II (Prugniaud strain) T. gondii. Infected TREM2 knockout (KO) mice had significantly increased mortality and elevated parasite burden during acute infection, as well as increased liver pathology and higher levels of inflammatory cytokines IL-1α, IL-6, and IL-17A by 7 days post-infection (dpi). Notably, we observed an early expansion and dissemination of T. gondii in infected macrophages in the omentum in TREM2 KO compared to WT mice, and this phenotype was specific to TREM2 deficiency on radiation-sensitive cells, based on bone marrow chimera experiments. In vitro, TREM2 KO macrophages were more permissive to T. gondii infection and exhibited reduced LAMP1 upregulation and impaired phagocytotic clearance of T. gondii compared to WT macrophages. TREM2 deficiency has been previously associated with elevated ERK signaling and defective lysosomal activity, and we found that treatment of TREM2 KO macrophages with the ERK inhibitor SCH772984 rescued LAMP1 expression and improved macrophage control of the parasites. Finally, RNA sequencing of myeloid cells isolated from the peritoneal cavity of infected mice at 3 dpi revealed increased transcripts associated with inflammation and decreased transcripts associated with cellular migration in the TREM2 KO compared to WT mice. These findings demonstrate a critical role for TREM2 in the early antimicrobial immune response to T. gondii infection by limiting parasite expansion, dissemination, and pathological inflammation in the infected host.Copyright: © 2026 Debray et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Dysregulation of brain cholesterol homeostasis is increasingly recognized as a critical driver of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis. G protein-coupled receptor 146 (GPR146) has emerged as a pivotal regulator of systemic cholesterol metabolism; however, its role in the central nervous system and AD remains elusive. Here, we report that GPR146 deficiency in mice modulates ERK/PKA signaling without affecting baseline physiology or general behavior. Following intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of amyloid-β (Aβ)42 oligomers, GPR146 was associated with altered Aβ42-evoked ERK/PKA/Akt signaling both in vivo and in vitro. Mechanistically, Gpr146 ablation potentiated microglial Aβ phagocytosis, which correlated with the transcriptional upregulation of phagocytic receptors, including TREM2, GPR34, P2Y6, and CR3, alongside increased expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6). Moreover, GPR146 deficiency was linked to elevated levels of blood-brain barrier (BBB)-associated markers Cldn-5 and Glut-1 protein levels, while attenuating Aβ‑induced inflammatory responses in brain endothelial cells. At the metabolic level, GPR146 knockout modulated the expression of key enzymes governing glucose (GLUT1, GLUT3, G6PD, PFK, HK) and lipid (HMGCS1, ACACA, FASN, SCD1) metabolism and markedly reduced Aβ‑elicited lipid droplet accumulation in the cortex and hippocampus. Collectively, our findings establish GPR146 as a novel neurometabolic regulator whose deficiency correlates with enhanced Aβ phagocytosis, maintenance of BBB-associated proteins, and altered cerebral metabolism, thereby presenting a potential therapeutic axis for early AD intervention.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42553440 is a review article
Advances in single-cell technologies have provided detailed insight into cellular heterogeneity within tumor microenvironments. However, the regulatory mechanisms driving macrophage-mediated immune suppression in thyroid cancer remain incompletely understood.We applied integrated single-cell multi-omics approaches to tumor samples from patients and murine thyroid cancer models, including single-cell RNA sequencing, single-cell ATAC sequencing, mass cytometry, spatial/histological validation, and in vitro and in vivo functional assays.We identified a prominent enrichment of TREM2+ tumor-associated macrophages within the thyroid cancer immune microenvironment. These macrophages displayed an immunosuppressive transcriptional and metabolic profile and promoted immune evasion through activation of the AHR-IDO1-kynurenine signaling axis, leading to impaired CD8+ T-cell function. Pharmacological inhibition of AHR and IDO1 reversed immune suppression and reduced tumor burden in experimental models.These findings reveal a TREM2+ macrophage-driven immunometabolic mechanism in thyroid cancer and suggest that targeting the AHR-IDO1-kynurenine pathway may provide a potential strategy for improving antitumor immunity.Copyright © 2026 Le, Huang, Jiang, Lv and Chen.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42552179
Mitochondrial dysfunction is a primary pathogenic mechanism underlying dopaminergic neuron loss in the nigrostriatal pathway in Parkinson's disease (PD). To investigate mitochondrion-targeted therapeutic strategies, we utilized the MitoPark mouse model, in which mitochondrial transcription factor A (Tfam) is selectively ablated in midbrain dopamine neurons, resulting in progressive neurodegeneration. We designed multifunctional lyotropic liquid crystalline nanoparticles (LCNPs) of the cubosome and hexosome types for noninvasive nose-to-brain delivery. These nanocarriers were engineered with lipids essential for membrane integrity (plasmalogens and ω-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs)) and a nonlamellar structural lipid (monoolein). They coencapsulated the neuroprotective antioxidants ginkgolide B and quercetin. To facilitate neuronal targeting and uptake, the surface of the LCNP was modified by conjugation with pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) and a rabies virus glycoprotein (RVG)-derived peptide-oleic acid (RVG-OL) conjugate. In vitro studies using differentiated SH-SY5Y cells subjected to oxidative stress demonstrated that the targeted LNPs enhanced cellular uptake and activated key neuroprotective signaling cascades, including AKT, ERK, and STAT3 phosphorylation. In vivo, intranasal administration of the optimized LNPs in MitoPark mice was associated with a trend toward the preservation of dopaminergic neuronal markers (such as tyrosine hydroxylase) and the regulation of mitochondrial-related proteins such as ATP5A1. Transcriptomic profiling revealed extensive molecular reprogramming. The peptide-functionalized LNPs upregulated genes enriched in mitochondrial biogenesis (Ppargc1a and Pink1) and survival (Bcl2) but downregulated the expression of neuroinflammatory mediators (Il6, Nos2, Myd88, and Trem2) and apoptotic effectors. These findings establish peptide-targeted, therapeutic lipid (plasmalogen/PUFA)-based nanoassemblies as a potent nonviral platform for noninvasive nose-to-brain delivery that may modulate mitochondrial- and neurodegeneration-related signaling pathways in a genetic model of PD.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42510804 is a review article
Growth traits, as core economic indicators in pig breeding, are closely associated with production costs, rearing duration, and final carcass quality and have thus consistently been a major focus of genetic improvement. This study aimed to identify candidate genes affecting Age to 120 kg live weight (AGE120), Backfat thickness at 120 kg (BF120), and Loin muscle depth at 120 kg (LMD120) in pigs. Ear tissue samples were collected from 3364 healthy adult pigs (including 558 boars and 2805 sows) from three breeds: Large White, Landrace, and Duroc. Genotyping was performed using an 80 K functional site array, and quality-controlled SNP (Single-Nucleotide Polymorphism) loci were subjected to genotype imputation, resulting in 15,447,611 loci obtained. Genome-wide association studies (GWASs) for Age to 120 kg live weight, Back fat thickness at 120 kg, and Loin muscle depth at 120 kg were conducted using a mixed linear model in Genome-wide Complex Trait Analysis (GCTA). Genes located within 500 kb upstream and downstream of significant GWAS loci were extracted using the biomaRt package in R. Furthermore, colocalization analysis was performed using expression Quantitative Trait Locus (eQTL) data of 34 tissues from the PigGTEx database to identify genes that share the same causal variant as the GWAS signals. Through integrated GWAS and eQTL colocalization analysis, in addition to five previously reported genes associated with pig growth traits (TAF11, ZC3HAV1L, ANKS1A, USP20, and TBC1D1), a set of novel, high-confidence candidate genes was identified: ZNF215, UBE2Z, HOXB7, SARDH, ADAMTSL2, ATP6V0A4, RPL10A, PGM2, and RELL1. These findings enrich our understanding of the genetic architecture underlying growth traits in pigs at heavy body weights and provide an important foundation for subsequent functional validation and molecular breeding applications.
Tubulointerstitial fibrosis (TIF) is a crucial pathological feature and inevitable consequence of progressive diabetic kidney disease (DKD). Transfer RNA-derived fragments (tRFs), a novel class of small non-coding RNA by cleavage of tRNAs, have recently attracted attention due to their functional significance in diverse biological processes. However, the role of tRFs in TIF is largely elusive. In the present study, we found that a tRF, tRF‑1:30‑Gln‑CTG‑4, was markedly decreased in proximal renal tubules and highly correlated with TIF in DKD mice. The overexpression of tRF‑1:30‑Gln‑CTG‑4 revealed a therapeutic effect against TIF. Further, RNA pull-down and RNA-immunoprecipitation assay were performed to identify that FBXO7, an adaptor protein in the SCF E3 ligase complex, was the targeted protein of tRF‑1:30‑Gln‑CTG‑4. Mass spectrometry and co-immunoprecipitation experiments revealed that PINK1, a master mitophagy-regulating protein, acted as the substrate of FBXO7 in tubular epithelial cells. Mechanistically, elevated FBXO7 promoted mitophagy defect through mediating PINK1 ubiquitylation and proteasomal degradation. The overexpression of tRF‑1:30‑Gln‑CTG‑4 alleviated defective mitophagy. Taken together, this study not only represents a novel insight into the pathogenesis of TIF but also provides a promising therapeutic targeting for the delaying the progression of DKD.© 2026. The Author(s).
The genetic architecture of Parkinson's disease varies considerably across ancestries, yet most previous genetic studies have focused on individuals of European ancestry. We aimed to characterise the distribution of established Parkinson's disease causal variants, as well as risk-associated variants with clinical implications (ie, variants in genes involved in pathways targeted by ongoing clinical trials), across ancestrally diverse populations.We conducted a multi-ancestry, observational, cross-sectional genetic study using retrospective data from the Global Parkinson's Genetics Program (GP2) release 11 (released in December, 2025). The study investigated causal and risk variants, including copy number variants, in established Parkinson's disease and parkinsonism-associated genes, following the recommendations of the Movement Disorder Society (MDS) Task Force on the Nomenclature of Genetic Movement Disorders, including GBA1, LRRK2, SNCA, VPS35, RAB32, PINK1, PRKN, PARK7, ATP13A2, DCTN1, DNAJC6, FBXO7, JAM2, RAB39B, SLC20A2, SYNJ1, VPS13C, and WDR45. Individuals with Parkinson's disease were diagnosed based on established clinical criteria, including the Parkinson's UK Brain Bank or MDS diagnostic criteria (or both), and healthy control participants were defined as individuals without evidence of neurodegenerative disease and unrelated to participants with Parkinson's disease. We analysed genome and exome sequencing and array genotyping data of 99 783 individuals, including 58 559 individuals with Parkinson's disease and 41 224 controls, from 11 genetically inferred ancestries (African, African admixed, Ashkenazi Jewish, Latino and Indigenous people of the Americas, central Asian, complex admixture, east Asian, European, Finnish, Middle Eastern, and south Asian), defined using reference population-based ancestry inference methods. We calculated allele frequencies for all investigated variants in individuals with Parkinson's disease and controls, both overall and stratified by ancestry.Approximately 29% of individuals (29 001 of 99 783; 15 443 [26·4%] of 58 559 individuals with Parkinson's disease and 13 558 [32·9%] of 41 224 controls) were from under-represented populations (ie, non-European and non-Ashkenazi Jewish). Our findings indicated both shared genetic contributors across ancestries as well as ancestry-specific differences in variant frequencies and the spectrum of variants within Parkinson's disease-associated genes. Overall, 1217 (2·1%) of 58 559 individuals with Parkinson's disease carried a causal variant, with substantial variations across ancestries ranging from ten (0·4%) of 2844 African individuals to 251 (10·7%) of 2343 individuals of Ashkenazi Jewish ancestry. Risk variants in GBA1 and LRRK2 were identified in 6893 (11·8%) of 58 559 individuals with Parkinson's disease and 3578 (8·7%) of 41 224 controls. GBA1 risk variants were most frequent overall and identified across all ancestries, but variant frequency and spectra differed substantially between ancestries, from 195 (4·1%) of 4773 in the east Asian ancestry group to 1505 (52·9%) of 2844 in the African ancestry group. Similarly, LRRK2 causal and risk variants showed ancestry-specific enrichment, with the highest frequencies of causal variants in the Ashkenazi Jewish (250 [10·7%] of 2343) and Middle Eastern (59 [4·4%] of 1347) ancestry groups, whereas risk variants were predominantly identified in the east Asian ancestry group (601 [12·6%] of 4773). Carriers of biallelic causal variants in PRKN, commonly including deletions and duplications, were also identified across all ancestries except Ashkenazi Jewish; the highest frequency was in the Middle Eastern ancestry group (17 [1·3%] of 1347), and frequencies in all other ancestries were less than 1%.This large-scale, multi-ancestry genetic study offers crucial insights into the population-specific genetic architecture of Parkinson's disease. Whereas clinical trials targeting GBA1 and LRRK2 variant carriers are primarily performed in Europe and the USA, increased ancestral diversity in Parkinson's disease research will be crucial to improve diagnostic accuracy, enhance our understanding of disease mechanisms across populations, and ensure equitable application of and access to emerging genetically informed therapies.Aligning Science Across Parkinson's (ASAP) through the Global Parkinson's Genetics Program (GP2).Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Osimertinib resistance poses a significant clinical challenge in treating non-small cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC) patients harboring EGFR-activating or T790M mutations, highlighting the urgent need to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms. In this study, we show that elevated USP20 expression drives osimertinib resistance and is associated with poor clinical outcomes in osimertinib-resistant NSCLC. Mechanistically, USP20 specifically interacts with PGAM1 and catalyzes the removal of K225-linked ubiquitin chains through its C154 catalytic site, thereby stabilizing PGAM1 to enhance glycolysis and promote osimertinib resistance. Importantly, through extensive virtual drug screening, we identified compound 89131-02-2 as a novel and selective inhibitor that targets the USP20 C154 catalytic site. Pharmacological inhibition of USP20 by 89131-02-2 effectively suppressed glycolysis and restored osimertinib sensitivity in functional assays. Our findings not only establish the USP20-PGAM1 axis as a key mediator of osimertinib response but also offer a potential therapeutic strategy to overcome resistance in NSCLC patients.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Prostate cancer (PCa) is a prevalent urological malignancy in men, with bone metastasis occurring in the majority of patients, often leading to poor clinical outcomes. Despite its clinical significance, reliable prognostic biomarkers for metastatic PCa remain limited. Immunogenic cell death (ICD), a regulated form of cell death, has emerged as a key modulator of the tumor immune microenvironment (TIME) and a potential determinant of the immunotherapy response. However, the functional role of ICD in PCa progression, particularly in bone metastasis, remains poorly understood. This study aimed to elucidate the prognostic implications of ICD in PCa and develop an ICD-correlated signature (ICDCS) model to improve risk stratification and therapeutic decision-making.We developed the ICDCS model by integrating multi-omics data, including single-cell transcriptomics, and leveraging computational approaches, such as AddModuleScore, WGCNA, ssGSEA, and 10 machine-learning algorithms (with 98 combinations). Its diagnostic and prognostic performances were rigorously assessed in the training cohort and two independent validation sets, offering a clinically applicable tool for outcome prediction. To gain deeper insights into prognostic features, we performed functional enrichment, immune infiltration, and immunotherapy response analyses. Additionally, we evaluated differential responses to immunotherapy across risk subgroups and identified potential personalized therapeutics. Finally, the vitro experiment validation of the key genes further strengthened the reliability of our findings.By integrating single-cell and bulk transcriptomic datasets, we identified 49 ICD-related genes, including nine linked to disease-free survival. By using genes common to both the training and validation sets, the final 8 key genes (MBNL1, IRAK3, CD59, LPP, TACC1, PRNP, CDC42EP3, and MYADM) were incorporated into 98 machine-learning computational frameworks for constructing ICDCS, and the Enet [α = 0.3] algorithm was finally chosen to build the model. In vitro validation confirmed the reduced expression of all eight genes in PCa cells, which was consistent with their putative protective roles. The ICDCS model exhibited robust prognostic accuracy for both the clinical outcomes and pathological features. Risk stratification based on ICDCS scores revealed distinct biological pathways, mutational profiles, and TIME characteristics between subgroups. Notably, patients in the high-risk subgroup showed an enhanced responsiveness to immunotherapy.In this study, we developed an ICDCS for PCa bone metastases. This model provides a valuable tool for characterizing TIME in metastatic PCa and demonstrates significant clinical utility for prognostic assessment and prediction of immunotherapy response.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42403151 is a review article
The application of the novel KRASG12D inhibitor in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is currently hindered by adaptive resistance. Metabolic reprogramming is a hallmark of KRASG12D signalling, yet the mechanisms linking these alterations to immunosuppression and low therapeutic response are poorly defined.To identify the key regulatory nodes connecting KRASG12D-driven metabolic adaptations to tumour microenvironment and develop a mechanistic-based combinatorial strategy.We integrated whole-exome sequencing, untargeted metabolomics and single-cell RNA sequencing of human PDAC specimens to analyse the metabolic-immune landscape. We evaluated therapeutic efficacy using the autochthonous mouse and patient-derived xenograft models.We found that KRASG12D enhanced cholesterol metabolism and promoted CD8+ T cell exhaustion, whereas KRASG12D inhibition or cholesterol synthesis blockade induced compensatory ULK1-associated autophagy. Cotargeting cholesterol metabolism and autophagy potentiated the antitumour efficacy of the KRASG12D inhibitor MRTX1133 and alleviated CD8+ T cell exhaustion. Mechanistically, KRASG12D transcriptionally upregulated USP20 via EGR1, which simultaneously deubiquitinated and stabilised 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase and ULK1, thereby orchestrating cholesterol metabolism and autophagy-associated survival. Genetic depletion or pharmacological inhibition of USP20 with GSK2643943A suppressed these pathways and restored CD8+ T cell function, improving responses to MRTX1133 and anti-programmed cell death protein-1 (anti-PD-1). In preclinical PDAC models, triple therapy with GSK2643943A, MRTX1133 and anti-PD-1 elicited a robust therapeutic response and induced significant tumour regression.USP20 acts as a critical metabolic checkpoint that orchestrates CD8+ T cell exhaustion and therapeutic response. Targeting the USP20-cholesterol-autophagy axis represents a promising strategy to reverse immune suppression and unlock the full potential of KRASG12D inhibitors in PDAC.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Intervertebral disc degeneration (IVDD) is a leading cause of low back pain, yet clinically, there remains no effective therapeutic approach to reverse its progression, imposing a substantial socioeconomic burden. While multiple factors contribute to IVDD pathogenesis, cellular senescence has emerged as a critical risk factor associated with both the incidence and progression of IVDD. Ageing and other damage factors drive nucleus pulposus cells (NPCs) towards a senescent phenotype characterized by increased secretion of proinflammatory factors, resulting in NPC dysfunction and tissue degeneration, which are hallmarks of IVDD. In this study, we demonstrated that PRMT2 deficiency disrupted arginine methylation‒ubiquitination crosstalk, driving NPC inflammatory senescence and accelerating IVDD progression. Mechanistically, PRMT2 loss reduced FBXO7 methylation at Arg 504, promoting the FBXO7-MED12 interaction to facilitate MED12 ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation. MED12 deficiency induced pathological R-loop accumulation, which activated the cytosolic DNA-sensing cGAS-STING axis, triggering inflammatory response cascades. Notably, engineered extracellular vesicles (EVs) delivering MED12-overexpressing plasmids effectively inhibited NP cell senescence and attenuated IVDD progression. Together, our findings establish that dysregulated methylation‒ubiquitination crosstalk critically drives IVDD progression and reveal MED12 as a promising therapeutic target for ameliorating the impact of IVDD.
Variants in the FBXO7 gene are a recognized cause of juvenile-onset autosomal recessive parkinsonism (PARK15) with a heterogeneous phenotype. There is limited number of reported cases in the literature.To report a 19-year-old Indian man with juvenile-onset parkinsonism harbouring a novel FBXO7 variant and to review the published literature on FBXO7-associated parkinsonism/parkinsonism-pyramidal syndrome, focusing on the clinical, imaging, and genetic spectrum and possible genotype-phenotype correlations.We evaluated an Indian male with FBXO7-associated juvenile parkinsonism and reviewed previously published cases from the literature to assess the clinical, imaging, and genetic spectrum.A total of 32 cases of FBXO7-associated parkinsonism, including our patient, were identified. The median age at onset was 17 years, median age at presentation was 28 years, with slight male predominance and a median disease duration of 5 years. Symmetrical juvenile-onset parkinsonism with tremor and postural instability was the commonest presentation. Dementia, dystonia, pyramidal signs, and gaze abnormalities were less frequent associated features. Most patients showed levodopa responsiveness, although motor complications and psychiatric adverse effects were common. Neuroimaging findings were heterogeneous, ranging from cortical atrophy to pallidal hypointensity and presynaptic dopaminergic deficits on dopamine transporter imaging. Twenty variants were identified, with the homozygous nonsense variant c.1492 C > T (p.Arg498*) being the most frequently reported.FBXO7-associated parkinsonism typically presents as symmetrical juvenile-onset levodopa-responsive parkinsonism, although early-onset parkinsonism is known. Dementia, dystonia, and pyramidal signs are less frequent associated features. FBXO7 variants should be considered in patients with symmetrical juvenile/early-onset parkinsonism, especially when accompanied by levodopa-induced psychiatric adverse effects.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Austria, part of Springer Nature.
Asthma is a heterogeneous inflammatory airway disease characterized by immune dysregulation, airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR), and excessive immune activation. Although NLRP3 (NOD-like receptor family pyrin domain-containing 3) has been extensively studied in asthma, its role remains controversial, and the contribution of DNA sensor AIM2 (Absent in Melanoma 2) is less well defined. To assess AIM2's relevance in asthma, we analyzed public human datasets and found increased AIM2, but not NLRP3, expression in severe asthma and in neutrophilic compared with paucigranulocytic asthma. In allergic asthma models induced by ovalbumin (OVA)-lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or house dust mite (HDM), AIM2 expression was increased in lung homogenates and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid cells. Analysis of a published single-cell RNA-seq dataset from the HDM model further showed increased Aim2, but not Nlrp3, expression in T helper cells, with most Aim2-expressing cells coexpressing Gata3. In the OVA-LPS model, whole-body Aim2 deficiency reduced AHR, inflammatory cytokine production, airway smooth muscle actin, and γH2A.X, consistent with decreased airway remodeling and tissue stress. Unexpectedly, CD4-specific, but not Treg- or myeloid-specific, Aim2 deletion significantly attenuated disease, identifying AIM2 in CD4+ T cells as a major driver of pathogenesis. In the HDM model, Aim2 deficiency similarly reduced AHR. Cell-specific deletion showed that AIM2 in CD4+ T cells promotes AHR and cytokine production, whereas AIM2 in myeloid cells modulates IgG1, IL-13-producing CD4+ T cells, and alveolar macrophages. These findings identify AIM2 as a regulator of allergic asthma acting predominantly through T cells, with an additional context-dependent contribution from myeloid cells.
Myostatin (MSTN) and Suppressor of Cytokine Signaling 2 (SOCS2) are key negative regulators of muscle growth and development. Cytidine base editors (CBEs) offer a precise method for introducing stop codons to knock out these genes. This study aimed to apply the YE1-AncBE4max CBE system to edit MSTN and SOCS2 in Haimen goats, a local Chinese breed, to enhance growth traits.Efficient single guide RNAs (sgRNAs) targeting MSTN and SOCS2 were screened in goat fetal fibroblasts via electroporation. Edited cells were analyzed by Sanger and TA-clone sequencing. Subsequently, a mixture of selected sgRNA and CBE mRNA was microinjected into 36 zygotes, which were then transferred to 9 recipient goats to generate gene-edited animals. Off-target effects were assessed by sequencing predicted sites.Cellular editing efficiencies for three MSTN sgRNAs were 25%, 37%, and 29%, and for one SOCS2 sgRNA was 31.57%. Microinjection and embryo transfer resulted in the birth of five kids, and one fetus (#S91) was aborted at 3 months of gestation; four with dual-gene (MSTN & SOCS2) edits (#241, #242, #S32, #S91) and two with single SOCS2 edits (#S31, #S11). Notably, two dual-edited goats (#241, #242) harbored biallelic MSTN mutations. No off-target mutations were detected. Phenotypic analysis showed that the edited goats exhibited significantly increased body weight and a "double-muscling" phenotype by 90 days of age compared to wild-type controls. This is the first study of generating any species with double gene knock out (MSTN, and SOCS2) to date to the best of our knowledge.This study successfully established a YE1-AncBE4max-based platform for efficient, precise dual-gene editing in goats. The generation of MSTN/SOCS2-edited Haimen goats with enhanced growth performance demonstrates the potential of base editing technology for rapid genetic improvement in livestock.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42554889 is a review article
Previous studies have highlighted the significance of the bile acid receptor TGR5 (also known as Takeda G protein-coupled receptor 5) in regulating inflammation and mitochondrial homeostasis in various diseases, whereas the specific involvement of TGR5 in spinal cord injury (SCI) remains unclear. This study aimed to elucidate the effects of TGR5 on SCI, as well as the underlying mechanisms.The TGR5 agonist INT-777 was used to activate TGR5 in a mouse model of SCI, induced by contusion injury to T9-T10 vertebrae, and cultured cells. To determine the mechanism of TGR5 activation after SCI, public dataset analysis, behaviour assessment, histology and biochemical analysis relating to inflammation, pyroptosis and mitochondrial function were performed.TGR5 levels were increased in a mouse model of spinal cord injury (SCI), and in primary microglia and BV2 cells treated with tert-butyl hydroperoxide. Furthermore, TGR5 activation by INT-777 improved functional recovery and tissue repair in SCI mice. Mechanistically, INT-777-mediated TGR5 activation exerted a neuroprotective effect by regulating cAMP/AMPK signalling, resulted in suppression of mitochondrial dysfunction and mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) release, which inhibited absent in melanoma 2 (AIM2)-driven pyroptosis and the inflammatory response. Notably, AIM2 overexpression partly blocked the neuroprotective effects of TGR5 activation in SCI mice. Additionally, AMPK inhibition by dorsomorphin aggravated neural injury and inflammation was alleviated in AIM2 deletion mice following SCI.INT-777 exerts anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective effects in the injured spinal cord by activating the TGR5/cAMP/AMPK pathway, thereby maintaining mitochondrial homeostasis and suppressing AIM2-mediated pyroptosis.© 2026 British Pharmacological Society.
Radiation-induced brain injury (RIBI) is a serious complication of cranial radiotherapy and currently lacks effective disease-modifying treatment. Persistent neuroinflammation and neurovascular dysfunction are considered central to RIBI progression, making them attractive therapeutic targets for regenerative intervention. Multilineage-differentiating stress-enduring (Muse) cells are a non-tumorigenic pluripotent-like cell population with reported reparative and immunomodulatory properties, but their therapeutic potential in RIBI has not been defined. In this study, we evaluated the effects of Muse cell transplantation in experimental RIBI using in vitro neurovascular co-culture systems and in an vivo rat model. Irradiation induced marked activation of inflammasome-related signaling, endothelial injury, and neurological impairment. Muse cells suppressed the expression of NLRP3, AIM2, ASC, Caspase-1, IL-1β, and IL-18 in irradiated co-culture systems, while preserving endothelial proliferative and angiogenic responses. Transcriptomic analysis identified stress-related pathways associated with Muse cell-mediated protection, and PPAN emerged as a candidate regulator linked to the reparative phenotype. In vivo, intracarotid transplantation of Muse cells reduced [18F] DPA-714 uptake in irradiated brain tissue and was accompanied by supportive behavioral trends suggestive of functional improvement. These findings provide exploratory preclinical evidence that Muse cell transplantation attenuates neuroinflammatory activation and preserves endothelial reparative responses after radiation-induced brain injury. Muse cells may therefore represent a potential cell-based strategy for RIBI, although their therapeutic efficacy, neurovascular repair-related effects, and long-term functional benefits require further validation in larger and more comprehensive preclinical studies.
In order to investigate the therapeutic mechanism of Jianpiyiqi Granule in juvenile myasthenia gravis (JMG) and find the immune-associated cytokines or signaling pathways targeted by this intervention.(1) We extracted JMG serum samples from the sample bank of the Hebei Provincial Key Laboratory of Myasthenia Gravis before and after treatment. (2) Using Olink Immune Response Panel detects serum cytokines. Data were collated and analyzed using statistical software. Differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were visualized using heat maps, volcano plots, and other tools. Differentially expressed cytokines were analyzed using KEGG enrichment pathway analysis to identify the relevant signaling pathways they participate in.(1) Twelve of 92 cytokines were found to be differentially expressed from 20 patients before and after treatment, namely AXIN1, CCL11, CCL13, CCL20, CCL25, CCL3, CD40, IL12B, S100A12, SIRT2, SLAMF1, and STAMBP (|log2FC| > 0.263; false discovery rate (FDR)-adjusted p < 0.05). IL12B was upregulated while AXIN1, CCL11, CCL13, CCL20, CCL25, CCL3, CD40, S100A12, SIRT2, SLAMF1 and STAMBP were downregulated after treatment. Notably, three of these-CCL11, IL12B, and STAMBP-showed stronger statistical evidence, with FDR-adjusted p < 0.01 and |log2FC| > 0.263. (2) The following pathways were obtained by KEGG enrichment analysis of 12 cytokines: cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, viral protein interaction with cytokine and cytokine receptor, chemokine signaling pathway, Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling pathway, intestinal immune network for IgA production, IL-17 signaling pathway, NF-kappa B signaling pathway. (3) CCL11 and CCL20 were enriched in the IL-17 signaling pathway. We used enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) to retest additional serum samples before and after treatment from 12 JMG patients before and after treatment. The results showed a significant decrease in CCL11 and CCL20 in after-treatment serum (p < 0.05).Drug therapy for JMG revealed 12 differentially expressed cytokines. Due to the exploratory nature and sample volume constraints, only two candidate cytokines were validated by ELISA. We found that the cytokines CCL11 and CCL20-associated with the IL-17 signaling pathway-were downregulated after treatment. The drug therapy may inhibit MG progression by reducing the expression of IL-17-associated cytokines. At the same time, the drug reduced the expression of CCL3, CCL13, CCL25, and CD40, which may play a role in the abnormal proliferation of thymocytes and chronic inflammatory response at the neuromuscular junction. Future studies with multiplex assays are needed to confirm the involvement of other differentially expressed cytokines, such as SIRT2 and AXIN1, which may contribute to disease mechanisms outside the identified pathways.Copyright © 2026 Yuanyuan Geng et al. Journal of Immunology Research published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Recent studies on cultured meat have shown that muscle satellite cells can be induced to form muscle-like tissues through proliferation and myogenic differentiation. Optimizing these processes is essential for reproducing the structure and texture of conventional meat; however, limited myogenic differentiation remains a major technical challenge. Stanozolol (STZ), a synthetic anabolic steroid derived from testosterone, is known to stimulate muscle protein synthesis and hypertrophy, but its effects on livestock-derived muscle cells for cultured meat production remain unclear. This study aimed to evaluate whether STZ enhances myogenic differentiation and myotube formation in primary porcine muscle satellite cells (PMSCs).PMSCs were treated with STZ at concentrations of 0.1, 0.5, and 1 μM. Cell viability and proliferation were assessed to determine the non-cytotoxic concentration range. Myogenic differentiation was evaluated by measuring the expression of myogenic differentiation 1 (MyoD), myogenin (MyoG), myosin heavy chain (MyHC), and myostatin (MSTN). Myotube formation was analysed by immunofluorescence staining, and the underlying mechanisms were investigated by examining PI3K/Akt/mTOR, Smad2/3, and forkhead box O3a (FoxO3a) signaling.STZ showed no cytotoxicity and did not significantly affect PMSC proliferation at 0.1-1 μM. In differentiation medium, STZ significantly increased the mRNA and protein expression of myogenic markers, including MyoD, MyoG, and MyHC, in a concentration-dependent manner. Notably, 1 μM STZ promoted the formation of larger multinucleated myotubes. In addition, STZ decreased MSTN expression, activated PI3K/Akt/mTOR hypertrophic signaling, and suppressed Smad2/3 phosphorylation and FoxO3a activity.STZ promoted myogenic differentiation and myotube formation in PMSCs by enhancing myogenic marker expression and modulating hypertrophy- and atrophy-associated signaling pathways. These findings suggest that STZ may serve as an effective culture medium supplement for improving PMSC differentiation in cultured meat production.
The somatotropic axis encompassing growth hormone (GH), insulin-like growth factor (IGF), myostatin (MSTN), and prolactin (PRL) signalling cascades is the master regulator of somatic growth, metabolism, and development in vertebrates. African catfish (Clarias gariepinus), a commercially pivotal aquaculture species, now possesses a chromosome-level reference genome (CGAR_prim_01v2); however, a systematic, genome-wide characterization spanning all five interconnected growth-related gene families has not previously been undertaken in this species. Here, we identified and characterized 15 growth-related genes spanning gh1, ghra, ghrb, Igf1, Igf2a, Igf2b, igf1ra, Igf1rb, Igf2r, Mstna, Mstnb, prl, prlra, prlrb, and smtlb distributed across 13 chromosomes. Complete one-to-one orthology with zebrafish confirmed strong dosage-balance conservation across >120 million years of teleost divergence. Physicochemical analysis resolved a clear biochemical dichotomy between compact, basic secreted ligands (19.88-45.81 kDa; pI up to 10.02) and large, acidic, heavily glycosylated membrane receptors (56.82-270.80 kDa; pI 4.85-5.97). Phylogenetic analysis confirmed 3R whole-genome duplication origins for all paralog pairs, while synteny analysis revealed a disruption of the ancestral gh1-prl chromosomal block in C. gariepinus, a finding that warrants further comparative and functional investigation. This genomic atlas provides the sequence and structural information including exon-intron boundaries, domain architecture, and chromosomal coordinates needed as a prerequisite for future marker-assisted selection and CRISPR-based myostatin-editing efforts in African catfish aquaculture, though translation into applied breeding outcomes will require subsequent functional and expression studies.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Gene network analysis is critically implicated in disease research for uncovering functional modules and interaction-driven pathways underlying biological and disease processes. However, the interpretation of large inferred networks remains challenging. Although functional gene network analysis allows the interpretation of large inferred networks, challenges such as reduction of multiple network-level features to a single composite score often limit their application. This data reduction can mask the important multivariate characteristics of gene networks, hindering efficient differentiation of individual contributions of distinct network components. Hence, this study aimed to investigate a novel computational strategy called Multivariate Framework for Functional Gene Network Enrichment Analysis (mFGNA). This framework incorporated diverse network-level features from a graph-theoretical perspective, including node properties (centrality), edge connectivity patterns (Jaccard distance), interaction strengths (edge weights), alongside traditional expression levels. Notably, mFGNA preserved these multidimensional characteristics, capturing complex rewiring of gene networks across different phenotypic states. Furthermore, mFGNA adopted a gene-level permutation strategy to evaluate the enrichment hypothesis, ensuring effective statistical inference and reduced computational complexity compared with phenotype-based permutations. Extensive Monte Carlo simulations validated mFGNA through both undirected and directed gene networks, showing consistently improved performance over existing approaches across diverse pathway settings. We also applied mFGNA to investigate immune pathway perturbations in cancer cell lines and identified significant network-level dysregulation in pancreatic and non-small cell lung cancers. Cancer-specific interaction modules were dominated by human leukocyte antigen class II genes. Meanwhile, normal cell networks were characterized by hub genes such as MMP1 and MMP3 that were implicated in tissue maintenance, highlighting immune remodeling in tumors and the potential molecular targets for developing diagnostic and therapeutic interventions. Overall, the study shows that mFGNA enables effective functional pathway discovery in complex gene networks, providing mechanistic insights and potential translational targets in disease contexts.Copyright © 2026 Park and Imoto.
Do particular pairs of individuals modeling sexual pairs exhibit differences in the induction of semen-mediated long-lasting tolerance in support of pregnancy?Yes, factors from both sexes contribute to the variability in the induction of long-lived regulatory T cells (Tregs) in response to semen, with factors related to the recipient seeming to slightly outweigh the factors related to the semen donor.Semen contains multiple immunomodulatory factors that can influence reproductive tract immunity in the recipient, promote tolerance to antigens from the semen donor (designated henceforth as 'paternal'), and ultimately support successful pregnancy. These factors include the soluble fraction containing prostaglandins and cytokines, as well as a very high concentration of extracellular vesicles (EVs). Both soluble and vesicular fractions of semen have been shown to promote tolerogenic phenotypes and migration in antigen-presenting cells (APCs), and to induce Tregs. This study was undertaken to understand the variation in tolerance induction between pairs of individuals modeling sexually active couples.We designed an in vitro pairing study using random semen donors (N = 11) and peripheral mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from random self-identified female recipients (N = 3). Semen was fractionated into vesicle-enriched (semen extracellular vesicles; SEVs) and soluble (vesicle-depleted semen plasma; VDSP) fractions. Monocyte-derived dendritic cells (MoDCs) from each of the recipients were exposed to semen fractions from each donor, then cocultured with autologous naïve T cells to assess tolerogenic responses, specifically, generation of Tregs (FOXP3+ CD25Hi CD127Lo CD4+ T cells) and their phenotypic differences (TIGIT+, PD-1+ CTLA-4+, or AREG+ Tregs). These cells were then screened for T cell receptor-dependent activation by activation-induced marker (AIM) expression assay. These responses were compared across all pairs of semen donors and recipient cells. In addition, semen fractions were screened for candidate mediators of tolerance, such as human leukocyte antigen G (HLA-G) and adenosine-generating enzymes.This study used an in vitro human cell culture approach in which primary blood-derived immune cells were exposed to semen-derived vesicular and non-vesicular fractions. Blood samples were obtained from healthy self-identified female donors, and semen samples were obtained from healthy participants who provided initial screening specimens for a contraceptive study. Semen-derived vesicular and non-vesicular fractions were characterized by western-blot analysis for markers associated with immune tolerance. Primary immune cells were exposed to these semen fractions, and the major endpoints included changes in Treg phenotypes and subset frequencies, as well as AIM expression. These outcomes were assessed by flow cytometry. No animal models were used.HLA-G content in semen (SEV and VDSP) varied markedly across donors, ranging from undetectable to high concentrations. Similarly, semen's capacity to generate adenosine from ATP differed by ∼4-fold among donors. Induction of Tregs by SEV and VDSP from 11 semen donors was highly variable, from 2.8% to 63.4% of CD4+ T cell population. Semen fractions from a few donors consistently elicited lower tolerogenic responses across all recipients. However, when we considered the combined effects of both semen fractions, none of the semen donors failed to elicit a measurable tolerogenic response. On the other hand, one recipient was a consistently low responder to tolerance induction. Thus, both recipient immune cells' features and semen-intrinsic properties are significant determinants of tolerogenic responsiveness. Semen re-exposure enhanced Treg AIM expression. The strongest effect was observed when Tregs were exposed to VDSP-loaded MoDCs. In contrast, SEV-loaded MoDCs caused a much weaker response.N/A.One limitation of our study is that we used semen and circulating recipient cells from random donors not selected for any clinical characteristics, such as history of infertility. In addition, we did not correlate HLA-G content and adenosine-generating enzyme expression levels with the Treg and AIM readouts. We show, via Treg activation, that semen induces tolerance to its antigens, but we do not demonstrate which specific antigens are recognized. We posit that the variation in semen-induced tolerance observed between couples plays a role in reproductive outcomes; however, larger studies in clinically characterized cohorts and using cells from the tissue microenvironment will be required to establish this link.Our findings demonstrate that semen-induced tolerance is highly variable and may be more strongly shaped by recipient factors than by semen donor factors. In addition, the generation of Tregs with enhanced activation to previously encountered semen supports the concepts of trained immunity and antigen-specific tolerance that arise cumulatively following exposure to semen from the partner. These Tregs are poised to expand and support pregnancies with fetuses expressing paternal alloantigens.This work was supported by the following grants: National Institutes of Health/Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development (R01AI153342) to L.V., National Institutes of Health/National Institute on Drug Abuse (R01DA040386) to F.H., National Institutes of Health/National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences (KL2TR002317) to G.G.G.The authors have no conflicts of interest to declare.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology.
Intervertebral disc (IVD) degeneration is associated with severe clinical symptoms including chronic back pain. Galectins are a family of carbohydrate-binding proteins, some of which can induce functional disease markers in IVD cells and other musculoskeletal tissues. Galectin-4 and -8 were shown to trigger disease-promoting activity in chondrocytes, but their effects on IVD cells have not been investigated yet.IVD specimens from 36 patients with spondylosis, spondylolisthesis, and scoliosis were assessed immunohistochemically for the presence of galectin-4 and -8. The degrees of radiological (Pfirrmann grade) and histopathological (Rutges score) degeneration of all specimens were correlated with histological galectin scores. To assess galectin functions, separate cell cultures of annulus fibrosus (AF) and nucleus pulposus (NP) (n = 21) were established. Cell cultures were treated with recombinant galectin-4, -8 (24 μg/mL), or Interleukin-1β (IL-1β) (10 ng/mL) and analyzed using RT-qPCR and In-Cell Western (ICW). Potential binding sites for galectins including sialylated N-glycans and LacdiNAc structures were determined in AF and NP cells using liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-MS/MS).The immunohistochemical presence of galectin-4 in IVD specimens correlated with histopathological and clinical degeneration scores of patients, whereas galectin-8 did not show significant correlations. Both galectins were detected across IVD compartments except for the endplate. In vitro, both galectins activated the nuclear factor-kB pathway and induced functional disease markers (Interleukin-8 (CXCL8) and matrix metalloproteinase-3 (MMP3) mRNA). NP cells were more responsive to galectins and IL-1β than AF cells, indicating region-specific differences in galectin sensitivity.This study identifies galectin-4 as a novel molecular player in the pathogenesis of IVD degeneration.© 2026 The Author(s). JOR Spine published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Orthopaedic Research Society.
Emotional eating and alcohol consumption are complex and multifactorial behaviors which are influenced by biological and psychological factors. Genetic predisposition to eating- and alcohol-related behaviors has previously been derived from broad, self-reported phenotypes. However, the association between such genetic predisposition and more refined measures based on validated questionnaires and clinical assessment of pre-diagnostic symptoms remains unclear. We examined whether two broad, nonspecific polygenic risk scores for poor appetite or overeating (PAO-PGS) and alcohol use (AU-PGS) are associated with emotional eating and habitual alcohol consumption. The study included 1,252 adults with overweight or obesity from the ONTIME study. We used two different questionnaires (the Emotional-Eating Questionnaire, EEQ and the Eating-related Behaviors and Emotions questionnaire) and 24h recall for alcohol consumption. Higher PAO-PGS and AU-PGS were associated with greater emotional eating (β =0.41, p=0.025) and greater risky alcohol consumption (OR=1.22, p=0.044), respectively. Further subcomponents of the EEQ such as greater disinhibition and food craving were also associated with higher PAO-PGS. Interestingly, the "eating-related behaviors and emotions score" was associated with genetic predisposition to alcohol use. In addition, minor allele carriers of specific genetic variants (FTO, MC4R, DRD2, and CTNNA2) were associated with specific characteristics of emotional eating and alcohol risk. These results provide novel evidence that polygenic scores for poor appetite or overeating and alcohol use are associated with emotion-driven eating and habitual alcohol consumption. Exploratory results point to CTNNA2 as a new candidate gene for food craving. Integrating genetic profiles into behavioral nutrition research may help identify individuals with higher vulnerability to maladaptive eating and drinking patterns. CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: clinicaltrials.gov: NCT02829619.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
This study was designed to evaluate the genetic association of three specific intronic Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) within the Dopamine Receptor D2 (DRD2) gene-rs2005313, rs4274224, and rs4938019-with schizophrenia susceptibility in a Pakistani population. The primary objective was to identify population-specific biomarkers that could inform early intervention and personalized treatment strategies.Genotyping was conducted on a matched case-control cohort of 208 participants (104 cases; 104 controls) using High-Resolution Melting (HRM) PCR. Genetic associations were quantified using Odds Ratios (OR) and 95% Confidence Intervals (CI), representing the standard coefficient and its margin of error to ensure statistical precision. Functional annotation of the investigated polymorphisms was performed using GTEx, FORGEdb and RegulomeDB to assess regulatory potential and tissue-specific expression effects.The research identified highly significant associations across multiple inheritance models, validating the technical robustness of the findings. The rs4938019 polymorphism emerged as the most potent genetic risk factor, particularly under the recessive model (OR: 9.60; 95% CI: 3.92-23.52; p < 0.0001), where the rare GG genotype was found in 44% of cases compared to only 7.2% of controls. Conversely, rs4274224 demonstrated a significant protective effect, with a co-dominant OR of 0.23 (95% CI: 0.09-0.59; p = 0.0022), suggesting that the T allele confers genetic resilience. Furthermore, among the investigated DRD2 variants, rs2005313 demonstrated significance primarily under the over-dominant inheritance model, whereas rs4938019 exhibited the strongest association under the recessive model (OR: 2.13; 95% CI: 1.15-3.94; p = 0.014). All variants in the control group maintained Hardy-Weinberg Equilibrium (p > 0.05), confirming the absence of population bias. Functional annotation revealed that rs4274224 showed the strongest direct regulatory evidence for DRD2 (FORGEdb score: 6; RegulomeDB Rank 1f), while rs4938019 demonstrated the highest overall regulatory potential (FORGEdb score: 9), with rs2005313 exhibiting substantial regulatory evidence (FORGEdb score: 7) supported by extensive GTEx cis-eQTLs across multiple tissues including brain regions.These findings establish DRD2 intronic polymorphisms as critical determinants of schizophrenia risk. The high-risk rs4938019 GG genotype provides a clear translational biomarker for rapid genetic screening, potentially improving clinical outcomes through genotype-guided therapeutic interventions.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
DEGDB, also known as diethylene glycol dibenzoate, is a new eco-conscious plasticizer on the block. However, the environmental and health implications of this substance remain poorly understood. The research utilized a synergistic bioinformatics and laboratory methodology to explore the functions and underlying process of DEGDB in the context of osteoporosis (OP). Through mining transcriptome datasets and constructing machine learning models, we identified five core genes associated with DEGDB-related OP. Cross-analysis with protein-protein interaction networks pinpointed matrix metalloproteinase 3 (MMP3) as a key target. Molecular docking and dynamics simulations confirmed a stable binding affinity between DEGDB and MMP3. In vitro experiments using bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) revealed that non-cytotoxic concentrations of DEGDB significantly inhibited osteogenic differentiation, as evidenced by reduced alkaline phosphatase activity, mineralized nodule formation, and downregulation of osteogenic markers (Runt-related transcription factor 2, RUNX2; Collagen type I alpha 1 chain, COL1A1). Mechanistically, DEGDB promoted the phosphorylation of the NF-κB (Nuclear factor kappa B) pathway and subsequently upregulated the expression of MMP3, both at mRNA and protein levels. These findings suggest that DEGDB may impair bone formation by activating the NF-κB/MMP3 axis, highlighting its potential risk as an environmental pollutant contributing to OP and providing new insights into the molecular mechanisms linking plasticizer exposure to bone metabolic disorders.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Whiplash-associated disorder grade II (WADII) is characterised by persistent pain in the absence of frank nerve injury, yet its molecular mechanisms remain unclear.To identify molecular signatures of 2 recovery groups characterised by persistent moderate/severe and minimal symptoms in WADII using RNA-sequencing of blood samples 6 months postinjury.We performed bulk transcriptional analyses on blood samples collected from the primary cohort of individuals with WADII 6 months postinjury (n = 15/recovery group). Findings were replicated through meta-analyses using an independent cohort of chronic WAD. Blood cellular composition was estimated via deconvolution analyses across both cohorts.Although there were no differentially expressed genes between recovery groups, we identified sex-specific gene expression signatures of recovery. In the primary WADII cohort, HLA-DQA1, HEBP1, and NECTIN2 showed lower expression in females with moderate/severe symptoms compared with minimal symptoms. SLC12A1 and MXRA7 showed lower expression in males with moderate/severe pain, whereas HLA-G was upregulated. Gene expression meta-analysis in females identified 6 differentially expressed genes, including replication of lower HLA-DQA1 expression from the primary cohort. There were no differentially expressed genes in the meta-analyses in males or between recovery groups. Deconvolution analyses revealed diverging trends between sexes for blood cell types and whiplash symptom severity scores. Ligand-receptor pair analyses further suggested distinct sex-specific recovery trajectories.Transcriptional profiling revealed sex-specific molecular blood signatures associated with persistent whiplash symptoms 6 months postinjury. Future research is needed to further characterise sex-specific mechanisms after whiplash injury to improve prognosis and targeted management strategies.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. on behalf of The International Association for the Study of Pain.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42548026 is a review article
This study aimed to investigate the anti-inflammatory effects of the aqueous extract of Pogostemon cablin and map the network of its main active ingredients, key targets, and signaling pathways. The chemical components of the extract were analyzed via ultra-performance liquid chromatography coupled with quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry (UPLC-Q/TOF-MS), and its anti-inflammatory activity was verified using a zebrafish model. The target sites and signaling pathways of these chemical components were identified through bioinformatics analysis, while molecular interactions were simulated via molecular docking and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. A total of 41 compounds were identified from the Pogostemon cablin aqueous extract, all of which exhibited significant anti-inflammatory effects in zebrafish. The key targets were confirmed as the ESR1, PTGER2, MMP3, MMP9, and PTGS2 proteins, which are involved in biological functions such as zinc ion binding, enzyme binding, and steroid binding. These key targets also regulate the lipid and atherosclerosis pathway and the estrogen signaling pathway, both of which are closely associated with the anti-inflammatory process. Network pharmacology effectively elucidated the potential molecular mechanism underlying the anti-inflammatory activity of the Pogostemon cablin aqueous extract, as well as the regulatory network between its key targets and active ingredients. These findings provide scientific evidence for the anti-inflammatory activity of Pogostemon cablin aqueous extract and support its potential application in anti-inflammatory and soothing cosmetics.© 2026 Wiley‐VHCA AG.
Background and objective Antipsychotic-associated metabolic abnormalities, including weight gain, dyslipidemia, hyperglycemia, obesity, and metabolic syndrome, vary among drugs. Receptor pharmacology offers mechanistic clues, while transcriptome-wide association studies identify genetically regulated expression signals linked to lipid traits. These evidence streams are usually evaluated separately. This secondary computational sensitivity analysis used previously generated Ki-DDD-TWAS outputs and was not a primary discovery or clinical validation study. The primary hypothesis was that removing literature-derived metabolic receptor weights would preserve overall drug ranking, with Spearman ρ approximately 0.9, while shifting receptor-level contributions from histaminergic and serotonergic systems toward dopaminergic and low-prior TWAS signals. Secondary objectives were to identify low-weight genes with strong TWAS signals, assess discordance with an author-defined clinical-liability comparator, and test sensitivity to gene removal and TWAS scaling. Methods Previously generated outputs were analyzed. Ki, the inhibition constant, and DDD, the defined daily dose, served as affinity and exposure-proxy inputs. Receptor-level and per-drug risk-score files were analyzed for 52 antipsychotics across LDL, HDL, log-transformed triglycerides, non-HDL, and total cholesterol. Analyses included reconstruction validation, pooled receptor contributions, TWAS signal versus literature weight, clinical-liability discordance, leave-one-gene-out and TWAS-scaling sensitivity, and receptor co-occurrence in high-risk drug sets. No patient-level data, independent TWAS resources, longitudinal outcomes, or outcome-based validation were used. Results Reconstruction reproduced saved risk ranks with Spearman correlation 1.000 for all 10 mode-trait combinations. V4 rankings remained concordant after removing literature weights, with trait-specific correlations of 0.900-0.923 and a mean of 0.913. The weighted model was dominated by HRH1, HTR2A, and HTR2C, contributing 25.7%, 21.6%, and 10.3% of pooled signal. Under uniform weighting, DRD2, DRD3, and HTR2A led, accounting for 22.1%, 12.9%, and 12.6%. ADRB1 was the strongest high-priority low-weight TWAS candidate, with an absolute HDL z-score of 13.53 and literature weight of 0.08. Other candidates included CHRM4, DRD2, DRD4, SLC6A4, and ADRB2. The model most strongly under-ranked paliperidone versus the supplied 12-drug comparator, while ziprasidone rose under uniform weighting. Removing HRH1 produced the largest rank shifts, particularly for levomepromazine, promazine, and acepromazine. Conclusions Removing literature-derived weights preserved overall drug ranking but substantially changed receptor-level score allocation. The weighted model emphasized histaminergic and serotonergic receptors prioritized in metabolic-liability literature, whereas the uniform model revealed broader dopaminergic and low-prior contributions. ADRB1 is a computational hypothesis-generating candidate, not a confirmed mechanism or established metabolic-risk contributor. HDL-association direction was not analyzed. The framework supports dual reporting of clinically anchored weighted and discovery-oriented uniform models as an internal sensitivity strategy only. It is not externally validated, does not predict patient-level outcomes, and should not be interpreted as estimating clinical metabolic risk or establishing receptor-level causality.Copyright © 2026, Cheung et al.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has a poor prognosis and limited treatment options. This study investigated the role and mechanism of Jiedu Xiaozheng Yin (JXY) in HCC using network pharmacology and in vivo/in vitro experiments. Active components of JXY and their potential therapeutic targets for HCC were identified via network pharmacology. A protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was constructed to identify core targets, and bioinformatics analysis confirmed their association with HCC. LC-MS/MS was used to isolate major components, which were then subjected to molecular docking with core targets. The effects of JXY on HCC were further validated through in vivo and in vitro experiments. Analysis of 171 core target genes was performed using PPI network screening and enrichment analysis. Quercetin was identified as the primary active component of JXY. Molecular docking confirmed its interaction with CYP1A2, which is overexpressed in HCC tissues. In vivo, JXY and quercetin significantly increased CYP1A2 and PTEN expression, while decreasing p-PI3K and p-Akt levels in HCC-bearing mice, thereby suppressing tumor growth and lung metastasis and promoting apoptosis. In vitro, both JXY and quercetin inhibited HCC cell proliferation and migration. CYP1A2 knockdown partially reversed, while its overexpression enhanced, these inhibitory effects. Quercetin, the main active component of JXY, upregulates CYP1A2 to promote PTEN expression, thereby inhibiting the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway and suppressing HCC progression.© 2026. The Society for In Vitro Biology.
Antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs) are expanding treatment options in endometrial carcinoma, but the distribution of actionable surface targets across histologic, molecular, and genomic subgroups remains incompletely defined.This single-institution retrospective tissue microarray (TMA) study included 312 endometrial carcinomas: 158 endometrioid and 154 serous tumors. Trophoblast cell-surface antigen 2 (TROP2) was quantified by histochemical score (H-score); human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) was assessed using endometrial carcinoma-specific and gastric/DESTINY-PanTumor02 criteria; and folate receptor alpha (FRα) positivity was defined as ≥75% viable tumor cells with ≥2+ membranous staining. Molecular class was assigned using a hierarchical DNA polymerase epsilon (POLE)-mutant, microsatellite instability/mismatch repair-deficient (MSI/MMRd), p53-abnormal, and no specific molecular profile (NSMP) classifier. Tumor mutational burden (TMB) and recurrent genomic alterations were analyzed in relation to biomarker expression.TROP2 was broadly expressed, with median H-scores of 280 in endometrioid and 200 in serous carcinomas. HER2 gastric-score 2+/3+ expression and FRα positivity were enriched in serous versus endometrioid carcinoma (22.5% vs 8.9% and 20.1% vs 4.4%), restricted to FIGO grade 3 tumors, and concentrated in p53-abnormal disease. FRα positivity was absent in POLE-mutant and MSI/MMRd tumors. HER2 2+/3+ expression correlated with erb-b2 receptor tyrosine kinase 2 (ERBB2) alterations, whereas FRα-positive tumors were enriched for TP53 alterations and showed lower frequencies of ARID1A and PTEN alterations. Triple-negative TROP2/HER2/FRα tumors were uncommon (6/308, 1.9%).TROP2 is broadly expressed in endometrial carcinoma, whereas HER2 and FRα define a more restricted high-grade, serous/serous-like, p53-abnormal compartment, supporting biomarker-informed ADC development.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Gestational hypertension (GH) remains a major cause of maternal and fetal morbidity. miR-498 has been implicated in vascular dysfunction, yet its role and mechanism in GH remain unclear.Clinical serum samples from 106 GH patients and 82 healthy pregnant controls were collected to detect circulating miR-498 expression and analyze its correlation with clinical parameters. The dual-luciferase reporter assay was applied to confirm the direct binding between miR-498 and PTEN. All in vitro functional experiments, including CCK-8 proliferation assay, Transwell migration and invasion assays, were conducted exclusively in HUVECs.Hsa-miR-498-5p (miR-498) was significantly downregulated in serum of GH patients and presented favorable diagnostic performance. Circulating miR-498 levels were negatively correlated with systolic blood pressure and neonatal birth weight, while positively correlated with gestational age. Mechanistically, miR-498 directly targeted PTEN. miR-498 overexpression enhanced the proliferative, migratory and invasive capacities of HUVECs, and ectopic PTEN overexpression could reverse these cellular phenotypes.Downregulated miR-498 aggravates endothelial dysfunction and facilitates GH progression via inhibiting PTEN/AKT signaling. This study identifies circulating miR-498 as a promising non-invasive diagnostic biomarker and reveals a vascular-specific regulatory axis for GH.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Early-onset, rapidly progressive, markedly asymmetric, or otherwise atypical scoliosis should prompt evaluation for an underlying genetic etiology. Variants in phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) are associated with macrocephaly and a broad spectrum of developmental phenotypes; however, their clinical relevance to severe atypical scoliosis remains infrequently described. This case highlights the potential diagnostic value of genetic evaluation in patients with atypical scoliosis accompanied by abnormal head growth.A 13-year-3-month-old boy presented with scoliosis that was first recognized at 9 years of age and subsequently progressed markedly. He exhibited early-onset, rapidly progressive, markedly asymmetric scoliosis accompanied by macrocephaly.Exome sequencing identified a heterozygous PTEN missense variant, NM_000314.8:c.276C>A (p.D92E), classified as pathogenic. Parental testing showed wild-type alleles in both parents, supporting a de novo origin. The overall findings were consistent with severe, rapidly progressive atypical scoliosis accompanied by macrocephaly and a de novo PTEN variant.Because the family declined surgical treatment, multimodal conservative management was initiated, consisting of a Chêneau brace worn for 21 hours per day, physiotherapeutic scoliosis-specific exercises for 2 hours per day, and adjunctive manual therapy.During the 12 months of follow-up, no further radiographic progression was observed, and the trunk appearance remained relatively stable. No major treatment-related adverse events were reported.Early genetic evaluation should be considered in patients with scoliosis characterized by early onset, rapid progression, marked asymmetry, and atypical curve patterns, particularly when accompanied by macrocephaly. A de novo PTEN variant may provide an important diagnostic clue in such cases. For patients with severe scoliosis harboring a PTEN variant who decline surgery, multimodal conservative treatment may serve as a bridging strategy to achieve short-term curve stability, while continued multidisciplinary assessment, genetic counseling, and long-term surveillance for potential PTEN-related manifestations remain essential.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42564966
Pleomorphic giant cell carcinoma (PGCC) of the prostate is an extremely rare and aggressive malignancy with limited treatment options. We present a case report of metastatic PGCC patients treated with 177Lu-PSMA-617 radioligand therapy (Pluvicto) after progression on standard therapies. Both patients had PSMA-avid tumors on imaging. Molecular profiling revealed mutations in hallmark tumor suppressors including TP53, RB1, and PTEN. Both patients initially experienced partial radiographic response, in which one patient achieved stable disease for 9 months posttherapy. These findings suggest that PSMA-radioligand therapy may be a reasonable treatment for PGCC patients, but underscore the need for additional therapeutic options.Copyright © 2026 John Y. Kwon et al. Case Reports in Urology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42564319 is a review article
The tumor immune microenvironment influences non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) progression and therapy response. Programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) is a key biomarker for immune checkpoint blockade, yet the genomic correlates of its expression status require elucidation.We analyzed 97 advanced lung adenocarcinoma patients, (13 cases-all from the PD-L1-unknown subgroup-excluded due to insufficient sequencing quality, leaving 84 cases for downstream analyses) categorized by PD-L1 expression (positive: n=32; negative: n=45; unknown: n=20). Genomic profiling was performed using a 95-gene targeted NGS panel. Analyses included mutational profiling, pathway enrichment (GO/KEGG), gene interaction patterns, and genomic complexity.The cohort was predominantly metastatic (99.0%). Dominant mutations were in EGFR(43.80%), TP53(38.02%), and KRAS(11.57%). PD-L1-positive tumors more frequently harbored EGFRE746_A750del, while TP53 mutations were enriched in PD-L1-negative cases. Somatic interaction analysis revealed significant EGFR/TP53 co-occurrence in PD-L1-positive tumors and TP53/RB1 co-occurrence in negative tumors. GO analysis showed PD-L1-positive tumors were enriched for kinase-related functions, reflecting a distinct EGFR-driven biology characterized by a striking 59.26% prevalence of EGFR mutations. KEGG analysis indicated immune pathway enrichment in this subgroup, supporting an oncogene-induced immune phenotype frequently synergized by TP53 co-alterations. In contrast, PD-L1-negative tumors correlated with co-mutation-prone, metabolism-oriented profiles and immune suppression. Mutual exclusivity patterns differed: in PD-L1-positive tumors, EGFRmutations were mutually exclusive with KRAS/NRAS/HRASmutations, suggesting a single dominant driver. PD-L1-negative tumors displayed more co-occurring alterations (e.g., TP53 with STK11 or PTEN). Furthermore, 24% of PD-L1-positive tumors had multiple concurrent alterations, a proportion significantly higher than in PD-L1-negative tumors (8%; P<0.05).This study delineates distinct genomic landscapes associated with PD-L1 expression. PD-L1-positive status is linked to an immune-active, kinase-signaling-driven phenotype with mutually exclusive drivers. PD-L1-negative status correlates with a more immunosuppressive, co-mutation-prone, and metabolism-oriented profile. These findings provide molecular insights into immune heterogeneity and may inform tailored combination therapies.Copyright © 2026 Huang, Yao, Zhang, Song, Wang, Zhao, Ji, Zhu, Zhao and Zhang.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42563948
Epilepsy affects up to 90% of patients with tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC); earlier seizure onset is associated with worse neurocognitive outcomes. The incidence of neonatal seizures in TSC is unknown, although in a recent multicenter trial 23% of infants with TSC were excluded prior to randomization because of pre-existing seizures prior to age 4 months, suggesting that neonatal or early infantile seizures may be a common occurrence.We aimed to determine the rate of neonatal seizures in our cohort of TSC patients.We performed a single-center medical records review of patients with TSC who were seen between 2020 and 2025 to identify patients with neonatal seizure onset.Of six patients with data from the neonatal period, four (67%) had neonatal seizures. Two had confirmed electrographic seizures in the first week of life, and another two had clinical seizure onset during the neonatal period. All patients with neonatal seizures had TSC2 and developed drug-resistant epilepsy, and two of four developed infantile spasms despite intensive early medical management, including vigabatrin. The two patients without neonatal seizures had TSC1 and mosaic TSC2, respectively. They have not developed epilepsy and have had milder neurodevelopmental impairment.In conclusion, data from our center suggest that neonatal seizures may be common in TSC, especially in high-risk infants with TSC2 with highly epileptogenic lesions. With recent preliminary data about safety and efficacy of mTOR inhibitor treatment in infants with TSC, early EEG monitoring should be considered.© 2026 The Author(s). Annals of the Child Neurology Society published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of the Child Neurology Society.
Hepatosteatosis is a common metabolic disorder. Bile acids influence hepatosteatosis, immune function, and incretin secretion. However, whether bile acids mediate hepatosteatosis through these immune or endocrine pathways remain unknown. Here, we identify supplementation with hyodeoxycholic acid (HDCA) in high-fat diet-fed mice increases hepatic iNKT cells and elevates circulating GLP-1, both upregulating fatty acid oxidation genes in a PPARα-dependent manner. Mechanistically, HDCA increases iNKT cells and IFN-γ production that promotes hepatic lipid catabolism, thereby attenuating triglyceride accumulation in wild-type (WT) mice, but not in iNKT cell-deficient (Ja18-/-) and PPARα knockout (Ppara-/-) mice. By contrast, the GLP-1 receptor agonist suppresses high-fat diet-induced steatosis in WT and Ja18-/- mice, but not in Ppara-/- and GLP-1 receptor knockout (Glp1r-/-) mice. Furthermore, anti-steatotic effect of HDCA is nullified in Glp1r-/- mice. Consequently, HDCA alleviates hepatosteatosis through dual mechanisms; an iNKT cell/IFN-γ immunometabolic- and GLP-1-dependent pathways. These findings highlight HDCA as a promising multi-target therapeutic strategy for hepatosteatosis.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) exhibits heterogeneous responses to immune checkpoint blockade, highlighting the need to define tumor-intrinsic mechanisms driving resistance to PD-L1 inhibition. Here, we identified GTP-binding protein overexpressed in skeletal muscle (GEM) as a tumor cell-intrinsic regulator associated with poor response to anti-PD-L1 therapy in ESCC. GEM expression in tumor cells drove tumor-associated macrophage (TAM)-mediated immunosuppression, leading to reduced CD8⁺ T cell infiltration and impaired cytotoxic function. Mechanistically, GEM induced SERPINE1 expression that was secreted and acted on macrophage LRP1 to drive alternative activation and suppress antitumor immunity. GEM enhanced SERPINE1 expression through a MKK3-RACK1-p38-MEF2A cascade. GEM signaling was reinforced by a metabolically coupled feedback mechanism. Macrophages exposed to GEM-high tumor cells promoted tumor cell glycolysis and lactate production, which drove AARS1-dependent lactylation of GEM and strengthened its interaction with RACK1 to amplify downstream signaling. Disruption of the SERPINE1-LRP1 axis restored CD8⁺ T cell activity and enhanced response to PD-L1 blockade in vivo. Pharmacological perturbation of GEM-dependent signaling remodeled the tumor immune microenvironment and improved responses to PD-L1 blockade. Together, these findings define a GEM-SERPINE1-LRP1 signaling axis that drives macrophage-mediated immune suppression and suggest that targeting this pathway may enhance the efficacy of PD-L1 blockade in ESCC.
Ovine species inhabiting harsh environments frequently develop enhanced functional adaptations. This study aims to (1) characterize rumen epithelial modifications in lactating Hulunbeier ewes under alpine conditions, and (2) elucidate how these adaptive responses are modulated by micronutrient supplementation and varying concentrate feed levels. Thirty lactating Hulunbeier ewes were randomly assigned to one of the three dietary groups and fed the same roughages with one of the following concentrates: 1) 550 g/d of local concentrate (LF) as the control, 2) 550 g/d of formulated concentrate (FF), and 3) 700 g/d of formulated concentrate (FS). Daily feed intake were recorded, and rumen epithelial tissues were collected for transcriptome analysis after slaughter on day 37 of the experiment. Transcriptomic analyses were performed on a subset of 11 ewes (LF, n = 4; FF, n = 4; FS, n = 3). No independent qPCR validation was conducted; results are therefore preliminary. In the exploratory cross-breed comparison, Hulunbeier sheep showed a suggestive trend toward enhanced expression of energy metabolism genes (ATP5MC2, ATP5PO, UQCRH) and genes encoding mitochondrial respiratory chain components relative to lowland Hu sheep. Supplementation with micronutrient premix upregulated key detoxification genes (CYP1A1, LOC101119706) and modulated immune-related pathways. In contrast, high concentrate levels promoted biosynthetic processes while suppressing cellular signaling functions. Gene Set Enrichment Analysis further indicated activation of thermogenesis pathways in the high-concentrate group, accompanied by altered expression of electron transport chain genes. PPARA may be involved in volatile fatty acid metabolism in response to micronutrient supplementation, but this requires direct experimental testing. Collectively, with the caveat of small sample size and lack of qPCR validation, these pilot-scale transcriptomic findings generate hypotheses that may underlie nutritional modulation of rumen function in alpine-adapted sheep; however, further validation with larger sample sizes and correlated phenotypic measurements is warranted. These results provide preliminary insights for developing targeted nutritional strategies to enhance ruminant production in breeds adapted to extreme environments.© 2026. The Author(s).
Spinal cord injury often causes permanent disability because the body's own repair mechanisms are limited, and the molecules that control damage and healing are not fully understood. One such molecule, FK506-binding protein 5 (FKBP5), is known to rise sharply after injury, but whether it only drives harmful inflammation or also participates in later recovery has been unclear. In this study, we investigated how FKBP5 affects microglia-the brain's immune cells-at different stages after spinal cord injury in mice. We found that FKBP5 plays a dual role. In the first few days, it works together with another protein, GPR84, to boost the production of an inflammatory signal called interleukin-1β. This signal pushes microglia into a destructive state and triggers a coordinated form of neuronal cell death that involves multiple death pathways. However, as FKBP5 levels continue to rise over time, it switches its function. It binds to and modifies an enzyme called LDHA, changing how microglia process lactate. This lactate then acts as a signal to add chemical tags (lactylation) onto histones, which turns on a protective gene, Fxyd5, and its partner Lgals1. These changes convert microglia from a harmful to a healing state, reduce neuronal death, and improve the local environment for tissue repair. Our results reveal that FKBP5 is a double-edged sword-first worsening damage, then promoting repair. This discovery suggests that precisely timing therapies that target FKBP5 could offer a new way to improve recovery after spinal cord injury.Copyright © 2026 Haotian Li et al.
Enzalutamide is a cornerstone therapy for castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC), yet acquired resistance remains a major clinical challenge. Although metabolic enzymes are increasingly recognized as modulators of therapeutic response, their specific roles-particularly their non-enzymatic functions-in sustaining enzalutamide resistance remain incompletely understood. In this study, we performed an in vivo screen using a custom metabolic CRISPR library in enzalutamide-treated xenografts and identified the pentose phosphate pathway enzyme ribulose-5-phosphate 3-epimerase (RPE) as a critical driver of enzalutamide resistance. Silencing RPE markedly restored enzalutamide sensitivity, enhanced apoptosis in vitro, and significantly suppressed tumor growth in both cell line-derived and patient-derived xenograft models. Mechanistically, RPE promoted resistance independently of its canonical enzymatic activity. Instead, RPE physically interacted with FKBP5 and promoted its ubiquitin-proteasome-mediated degradation. Loss of FKBP5 subsequently hyperactivated AKT signaling, leading to increased p-BAD and BCL-xL levels and suppression of enzalutamide-induced cell death. Conversely, disrupting the RPE-FKBP5 interaction or silencing RPE in vivo using a PSMA-targeted lipid nanoparticle system effectively abrogated these resistance phenotypes. Together, these findings illustrate how CRPC cells hijack the non-enzymatic function of a metabolic enzyme to evade antiandrogen therapy, establishing the RPE-driven degradation of FKBP5 and consequent AKT hyperactivation as a targetable vulnerability for overcoming enzalutamide resistance.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Apicomplexan parasites, including Toxoplasma gondii and Plasmodium falciparum, are major human pathogens that cause toxoplasmosis and malaria, respectively. The existing structures of T. gondii translational machinery are from empty ribosomes that lack several key components, including ribosomal protein RACK1 (Receptor for Activated C Kinase 1). Here, we used cryo-electron microscopy (cryoEM) to determine high-resolution structures of T. gondii ribosomal complexes, including a translating 80S ribosome bound to mRNA and tRNA. These structures reveal that RACK1 occupies the conserved binding site on the 40S subunit observed in other eukaryotic ribosomes. We also determined the architecture of the ribosomal P-stalk and identified the ribosomal proteins uL10 and uL11, which were not observed in previous T. gondii ribosome structures. In addition, we determined structures of the 80S ribosome bound to mRNA, tRNA, and the translation inhibitor emetine in two distinct conformational states. These snapshots reveal two mechanisms by which emetine inhibits the translocation step of mRNA translation: either by dislodging the mRNA from the E-site of the ribosome or by acting as a molecular glue within the E-site, thereby stalling translocation. Together, these findings provide new insights into the molecular basis of protein synthesis in apicomplexan parasites and establish a structural framework for the development of future antiparasitic therapeutics.
CD148 is the primary receptor-type protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) regulating platelet activation, and its inhibition has been proposed as a novel anti-thrombotic strategy with potentially lower bleeding risk than current therapies. However, selective and potent inhibitors of CD148 are currently lacking. AKB-9778 (razuprotafib), a potent inhibitor of the closely related vascular endothelial-PTP (VE-PTP), has also been reported to inhibit CD148. This study investigated the effect of AKB-9778 on in vitro whole-blood thrombogenicity, examined the molecular basis of its interaction with the CD148 catalytic domain using molecular docking, and assessed inhibitor selectivity with an in vitro phosphatase assay. In a total-thrombus formation analysis system (T-TAS), AKB-9778 partially inhibited thrombus formation, reducing AUC10 by 28%, without significantly affecting occlusion start time or occlusion time. The inhibitor did not alter collagen-stimulated CD62P platelet surface expression or PAC-1 binding to the activated integrin αIIbβ3. Molecular docking using CB-Dock predicted a binding configuration in which the phenylsulfamic acid group of AKB-9778 is orientated towards the catalytic cysteine, with additional conformations reflecting ligand flexibility. Site-directed mutagenesis of Tyr1071, Gln1283, His1206, and Asn1073 to alanine reduced the inhibitory effect in phosphatase assays, supporting interaction with these residues. Notably, the IC50 of AKB-9778 against CD148 was approximately 300-fold higher than previously reported values, consistent with the wide variability across studies. Despite this reduced potency, these findings support the concept of CD148 inhibition as a potential anti-thrombotic strategy and suggest that AKB-9778 may serve as a useful prototype for developing more selective and efficacious CD148 inhibitors.© 2026 The Author(s). Pharmacology Research & Perspectives published by British Pharmacological Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Anesthesia recovery is critical for resuming normal physiological and neuronal functions; however, the mechanisms involved remain elusive. Here, we identify a female-selective corticosterone-mediated microglia-neuron interaction during ketamine anesthesia recovery, absent in males. This microglia-neuron interaction induces plastic and functional neuronal changes, as evidenced by increased mEPSC frequency, which was occluded upon microglia depletion. We showed that this process is driven through up-regulation of the stress-responsive co-chaperone Fkbp5 mRNA and its protein, Fkbp51, in female microglia. Fkbp5/Fkbp51 is a key intermediary in a corticosteroid-induced stress response, and its involvement points toward a critical interface between endocrine signaling and microglia. To counteract the observed ketamine anesthesia-mediated increase in blood corticosterone during recovery, we removed the primary source of corticosterone by adrenalectomy. Close microglia-neuron interaction was reduced and increased again following corticosterone injection. Our findings identify a sex-specific microglia-mediated mechanism of neuronal plasticity during anesthesia recovery, driven by corticosterone, thereby enhancing our understanding of sex differences in brain function.
A well-formed dentin bridge isolates irritants and prevents bacterial penetration into the remaining pulp tissue, which is essential for pulp regeneration. The existing literature on promoting reparative dentin formation mostly focuses on the effects of pulp-capping materials but lacks investigations into the underlying mechanisms.To identify potential targets for enhancing reparative dentin formation as well as the epigenetic mechanisms underlying these effects.Laboratory-based study combining multi-omics sequencing, epigenetic assays, in vitro FK506-binding protein 51 (FKBP5) knockdown or overexpression experiments, and in vivo validation using rat pulp injury models and nude mouse subcutaneous transplantation models.Laboratory-based in vitro and in vivo study.N/A.Dental pulp stem cells (DPSCs) were exposed to odontogenic differentiation induction or Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulation. FKBP5 knockdown and overexpression were conducted using lentiviral vectors. In vivo validation was performed using a rat dental pulp injury model and a nude mouse subcutaneous transplantation model combining FKBP5 knockdown or overexpressed DPSCs with treated dentin matrix. Histone acetylation was modulated using dCas9-p300 targeting or pharmacological treatment with suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid (SAHA) or C646.FKBP5 expression, mineralized nodule formation, alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity, odontogenic marker expression, inflammatory cytokine expression, FKBP5 promoter chromatin accessibility, promoter methylation, H3K9ac/H3K27ac enrichment, reparative dentin formation and collagen formation were assessed.FKBP5 was upregulated during odontogenic differentiation induction and highly expressed in human pulpitis tissues and injured rat pulps. Overexpression of FKBP5 promoting reparative dentin formation, collagen synthesis and mineralization (dentin sialophosphoprotein and dentin matrix protein 1 expressions). Down-regulation of inflammatory factors Interleukin-1β and Interleukin-8 also contributed to the process of pulp repair. H3K9ac and H3K27ac, rather than DNA methylation, were enriched at the FKBP5 promoter, enhancing chromatin accessibility and FKBP5 transcription. SAHA enhanced H3K9ac and H3K27ac and the expression of FKBP5 near the injury site. The newly-formed reparative dentin was upregulated and pulp inflammation was suppressed with the application of SAHA.FKBP5 facilitated reparative dentin and neoplastic collagen synthesis at the injury site while mitigating inflammation. Histone acetylation H3K9 and H3K27 were the mechanism that modulated differentiation effects of FKBP5.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Bacteria are frequently attacked by viruses, known as phages, and rely on diverse defence systems to survive. While phages can evade defences by covalently modifying their DNA, these non-canonical nucleobases create molecular signatures that bacteria can exploit. Here, using structure-guided discovery, we identified two widespread families of anti-phage DNA glycosylases, Dag1 and Dag2. Although DNA glycosylases are classically associated with DNA repair, Dag1 and Dag2 act as antiviral effectors that selectively target phages carrying modified guanine bases. Guided by the conserved glycosylase fold, we uncovered numerous defence-associated glycosylases that collectively form a diverse repertoire of enzymes targeting chemically modified phage DNA. We further identified a distinct glycosylase superfamily that protects against phages carrying modified thymidine bases. Together, these findings establish DNA glycosylases as a versatile class of bacterial immune proteins and highlight structure-guided discovery as a powerful strategy for uncovering hidden antiviral defences.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42557821
Genome-wide analyses of transcription factor (TF) motif binding sites have largely emphasized individual high-affinity sites, while overlooking the regulatory importance of locally repetitive motif clusters. Such clusters, including combinations of weak and strong binding sites, can collectively enhance TF occupancy and regulatory activity. Here we present Motif-Cluster, an open-source framework for motif-driven prioritization and visualization of TF binding clusters using sequence information alone. Motif-Cluster integrates a density-based clustering strategy with flexible modeling of binding-site gaps and affinity signals, enabling the identification and ranking of candidate regulatory regions without requiring experimental binding data. Through simulations and multiple real-data analyses, we show that combining gap distributions with binding affinity effectively balances cluster size and signal strength while reducing noise from weak sites. Application to ZNF410 successfully recovers the previously characterized binding clusters in the CHD4 promoter, which are conserved between human and mouse. Additional case studies involving PHB1, TWIST1, and EGR1 further demonstrate the general applicability of the method across diverse transcription factors. Motif-Cluster also provides intuitive visualization and reproducible workflows to facilitate interpretation of spatially dense motif patterns. Overall, Motif-Cluster offers a robust and flexible approach for prioritizing transcription factor regulatory regions from genome-wide motif scans, enabling biological discovery and guiding experimental design, particularly in settings where direct genome-wide binding assays are unavailable.Copyright: © 2026 Zhou, Yao. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Ischemic stroke (IS) is a cerebrovascular disease with high mortality and disability rates, currently lacking effective therapeutic targets. The STING inhibitor SN-011 shows potential in IS treatment, but its mechanism of action remains unclear. This study aims to explore the key molecular mechanisms of SN-011 in treating IS through bioinformatics approaches. IS transcriptome datasets were analyzed to identify differentially expressed genes. Mendelian randomization using brain eQTL and IS-GWAS data identified genes with causal relationships to IS. Single-cell transcriptome, pseudo-time trajectory, intercellular communication, and transcription factor regulatory network analyzes were performed. Molecular docking and DARTS-WB assay validated SN-011 binding to transcription factors. Transcriptomic analysis identified 77 intersecting genes. Mendelian randomization revealed ADGRE5 as a protective gene for IS (OR < 1), significantly downregulated in venous endothelial cells (vECs) during disease progression. Cell communication analysis showed ADGRE5-high vECs interact with immune, glial, and stromal cells via LAMININ (Lamb2-CD44, Lamb2-Itga6+Itgb1, Lamb2-Dag1 pair) and JAM signaling pathways. Transcription factor analysis identified JUNB as a negative regulator of ADGRE5. Molecular docking (-6.8 kcal/mol) combined with an in vitro DARTS-WB assay confirmed the interaction between SN-011 and JUNB. In OGD-induced endothelial cell injury models, SN-011 suppressed JUNB expression, restored ADGRE5 expression inhibited by JUNB overexpression, reversed the downregulation of LAMB2 and CD44, and reduced the expression of the pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-6 and IL-1β. Notably, blockade of LAMB2 largely abolished these protective effects, indicating that the anti-inflammatory and endothelial-protective activities of SN-011 are mediated, at least in part, through restoration of the LAMB2-CD44 signaling axis. ADGRE5 downregulation in vECs may impair vascular repair by disrupting LAMININ-mediated intercellular communication. SN-011 may exert neuroprotective effects by targeting JUNB to upregulate ADGRE5 expression and restore the vEC-centered cellular communication network, providing a theoretical basis for SN-011 as a potential IS therapeutic.© 2026 The Author(s). Chemical Biology & Drug Design published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42546854 is a review article
Metastatic dissemination is the principal cause of death in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC), yet the molecular determinants that enable this process remain poorly understood. Here, we identify the axon guidance receptor UNC5B as a central regulator of PDAC metastasis. Using both genetically engineered KPCU and orthotopic mouse models, we demonstrate that loss of UNC5B completely abolishes metastatic spread, reduces tumor proliferative capacity, increases intratumoral necrosis, confining tumors to the pancreas with no invasion into adjacent tissues or lymph nodes and preserving epithelial morphology. Mechanistically, UNC5B drives epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and invasion through activation of the SRC-ZEB1 axis. Notably, UNC5B specifically engages ZEB1 to drive EMT, without altering other canonical EMT transcription factors such as SNAIL or TWIST1. Pharmacological degradation of exogenous UNC5B using a targeted protein degrader (degron) modulated EMT and invasive behavior in PDAC cells. Acute depletion of UNC5B resulted in a marked reduction in EMT scores, accompanied by decreased ZEB1 and SRC levels. Together, these findings identify UNC5B as a central molecular hub governing metastatic competence in PDAC by promoting EMT and invasion.© 2026. The Author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42522970
Background: Novel Sézary syndrome (SS) biomarker genes identified previously through transcription profiling were examined for changes in expression after mogamulizumab treatment. Incorporating new biomarkers for measuring response to disease would improve clinical care. Objective: To assess novel SS biomarker and cytokine genes in patients treated with mogamulizumab with clinical response, blood response, and immunologic parameters. Methods: We performed a real-world case-control and case-case study analyzing the expression of SS biomarker genes in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from six SS patients treated with mogamulizumab using qRT-PCR. Results: We demonstrated a reduced expression of SS biomarker genes in PBMCs of SS patients following mogamulizumab therapy. In our cohort, five of the SS biomarker genes (PLS3, TWIST1, KCNK1, DNM3 and TOX) showed statistically consistent high expression compared to normal PBMCs at baseline. After treatment with mogamalizumab, these five SS biomarkers showed significant correlations with skin response (p < 0.05) and three (TOX, TCRL3 and DNM3) with blood response (p < 0.05). A decrease in GATA3 expression correlated to an improvement in skin severity, and STAT4 inversely correlated to Sézary cell decrease (p < 0.05). Two cytokine genes, IL4 and IFNG, reflective of an immune response that is abnormal in SS, showed a trend to normalized expression with IL-4 decreasing and IFNG increasing after treatment. Limitations: This was a real-world study of patients who failed prior treatments, with a small sample size and variable timing between patient sample collection. Conclusions: Unique SS biomarker, cytokine and T cell transcription factor genes are valuable in assessing molecular and immune responses following treatment.
Pigment dispersion syndrome and pigmentary glaucoma are important causes of ocular hypertension and glaucomatous optic neuropathy, yet their genetic determinants remain incompletely defined, particularly across diverse ancestries. This study aimed to use a large multi-ancestry cohort from the All of Us Research Program to investigate the genetic basis of pigment dispersion syndrome and pigmentary glaucoma.Case-control study.572 cases and 37,808 controls with array genotyping and 537 cases and 35,493 controls with whole genome sequencing.Using electronic health record phenotyping in the All of Us Research Program, we performed multi-ancestry genome-wide association analyses using both array-based data and whole genome sequencing-based data comparing patients with pigment dispersion syndrome or pigmentary glaucoma to those without either condition. We also performed Firth penalized regression and Fisher analyses, and we performed principal component analyses to assess effect sizes across genetic ancestries. We applied statistical fine-mapping, examined for cross-trait overlap, and assessed expression quantitative trait locus associations for lead variants.P-values and odds ratios of lead loci from genome-wide association analyses; size of credible sets determined from fine-mapping; allele frequency of lead variants in cases, controls, and the general population; expression quantitative trait locus effect size and p-values linking lead variants to gene expression.We identified four loci reaching genome-wide significance across analyses, including signals near EPHA7 (which mediates cell-cell signaling), within TYR (involved in melanin synthesis and replicated from prior studies), within LINC01138, and near OTX2. Statistical fine-mapping refined three of these loci to single-variant 95% credible sets and narrowed the TYR locus to small credible sets, prioritizing possible causal variants. Effect estimates were broadly consistent across genetic ancestry clusters. Lead variants showed regulatory evidence in expression quantitative trait locus, including reduced EPHA7 expression.These findings implicate both melanogenesis and cell-cell adhesion and signaling pathways in pigment dispersion syndrome and pigmentary glaucoma.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
To understand the cellular and spatial composition of conventional ameloblastoma and its alteration after marsupialization treatment.We applied single-cell RNA sequencing and spatial transcriptomics on pre- and post-marsupialization conventional ameloblastoma slices, followed by cluster, trajectory, network analysis, and immunofluorescence validation.We found a continuous cell trajectory from pre-marsupialization epithelium-like cell types to post-marsupialization mesenchyme-like cell types. Comparison with our recently established human embryonic dental cell atlas revealed that epithelium-like cells resembled the most primitive outer enamel progenitors, whereas mesenchyme-like cells did not resemble any embryonic mesenchymal cells, representing a differentiated and abnormal state. Transcription factors DLX5 and TWIST1, together with their target genes, showed profound alterations that paralleled the epithelium-to-mesenchyme transition (EMT). We verified the existence of EMT by double immunofluorescence of two EMT markers FN1 and VIM, and verified the specific expression of KRT15 in pre-marsupialization tissues. Lastly, mesenchyme-derived proteins MMP13 and THBS2 exert feedback regulatory effects on EMT.We constructed the cellular and spatial landscape of conventional ameloblastoma before and after marsupialization. Our findings indicate that the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) process, potentially regulated by DLX5 and MMP13, contributes to the treatment effect of marsupialization.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Maintaining postnatal bone growth is crucial for humans to reach their final height. To determine transcriptional networks coordinating this process, we applied spatially resolved transcriptomics to growth plate biopsies obtained from healthy adolescents who underwent epiphysiodesis surgery for idiopathic tall stature. Spatial profiling revealed new markers for each zone of the human growth plate and identified genes associated with poorly understood growth disorders, including the novel hypertrophic zone marker SGMS2. We elaborated on this finding and established that Sgms2 is present in growth plate-derived matrix vesicles, and its activity facilitates mineralization - a process impaired in patients with SGMS2 mutations. By exploring the low transcriptional activity of resting zone chondrocytes, we found that a subset of these cells exists in a functionally quiescent state in vivo, as determined by their predominantly nuclear mRNA, abundant heterochromatin, and ability to exit the G0 phase under specific conditions - features shared with skeletal stem cells in mouse growth plates. Additionally, we identified distinct sub-populations of human resting zone chondrocytes; an exploration of their hierarchy determined that CHRDL2 and/or SFRP5-positive sub-populations were among the least quiescent resting zone cells. In summary, we generated a comprehensive map of gene expression within the human growth plate, revealing novel zone-specific markers, new primary growth disorders, candidate pharmacological targets, and sub-populations of resting zone chondrocytes with features of quiescent stem cells. These results contribute to a better understanding of the cellular and molecular mechanisms governing human height and can facilitate improved diagnosis and treatment strategies for patients with skeletal growth disorders.© 2026. The Author(s).
Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) involves hippocampal and prefrontal dysfunction. Cannabidiol (CBD) shows therapeutic promise, but its cell-type-specific and causal mechanisms remain unclear.We performed single-cell RNA sequencing of hippocampal and prefrontal cortices from PTSD mice, healthy controls, and CBD-treated PTSD mice. Genes dysregulated in PTSD and reversed by CBD were integrated with human PTSD GWAS and brain eQTL datasets using summary-data-based Mendelian randomization (SMR) to identify causal risk targets. Molecular docking assessed direct CBD-protein interactions.PTSD induced extensive transcriptional alterations, most prominent in excitatory neurons. SMR analysis identified 15 potential causal risk genes linked to PTSD. Among these, 7 high-confidence targets were confirmed to be transcriptionally responsive to CBD treatment. In the hippocampus, key causal targets included LYNX1 (OR = 0.75, 95% CI: 0.57-0.98, P = 0.038), RAB3C (OR = 1.291, 95% CI: 1.052-1.584, P = 0.015), MAGI2 (OR = 1.15, 95% CI: 1.00-1.31, P = 0.048), LINGO2 (OR = 1.48, 95% CI: 1.07-2.03, P = 0.017), and UNC5D (OR = 1.41, 95% CI: 1.03-1.93, P = 0.032). In the prefrontal cortex, identified targets were CNTN3 (OR = 0.78, 95% CI: 0.62-0.98, P = 0.036), IGSF21 (OR = 1.22, 95% CI: 1.04-1.42, P = 0.012). While SEPTIN3 (OR = 1.25, 95% CI: 1.01-1.56, P = 0.043) was identified as a causal risk gene, its expression was not reversed by CBD. Molecular docking indicated that all 15 SMR-identified candidates possess strong binding affinity to CBD, including RAB3C (-8.636 kcal/mol), CNTN3 (-7.216 kcal/mol), and LINGO2 (-6.222 kcal/mol), which suggests a direct pharmacological interaction.This study identifies causal, region-specific CBD targets in PTSD, providing a mechanistic basis for precision therapeutic interventions.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
To investigate the variation in serum secreted frizzled-related protein 5 (SFRP5) levels among individuals with essential hypertension and its association with carotid atherosclerosis.297 subjects were included: 77 with stage 1 hypertension, 73 with stage 2, 67 with stage 3, and 80 normotensive controls. Logistic regression analyses alongside receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve examinations were used to determine the independent relationship and predictive significance of SFRP5 in relation to carotid atherosclerosis. The primary outcome measure was serum SFRP5 level. Secondary outcome measures included levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-6 (IL-6), carotid intima-media thickness (CIMT), and incidence of carotid plaque.Serum SFRP5 levels decreased significantly with increasing hypertension severity and were lower in patients with carotid atherosclerosis (P<0.001). A strong inverse relationship was found between SFRP5 levels and carotid atherosclerosis (r = -0.67, P<0.001). Regression analysis revealed SFRP5 was an independent protective factor (adjusted OR = 0.673, 95% CI: 0.585-0.774, P<0.001) after adjusting for age, sex, body mass index (BMI), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), and hypertension grade. SFRP5's predictive capability for carotid atherosclerosis was indicated by an area under ROC curve of 0.902.Lower serum SFRP5 levels are associated with hypertension severity and heightened risk of carotid atherosclerosis in hypertensive patients. SFRP5 may be a biomarker for risk assessment and may also represent a promising therapeutic target. Additional studies are required to validate these results and unravel the underlying mechanisms.AJTR Copyright © 2026.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42448410 is a review article
LEMD2 is an inner nuclear membrane protein. The pathogenic LEMD2 variant (NM_181336.4: c.38 T > G, p.L13R) has been associated with an inherited cardiomyopathy characterized by left ventricular dysfunction and severe arrhythmias. To gain more insights into this disease and investigate the role of LEMD2 more broadly, LEMD2 p.L13R knock-in (LEMD2-KI; UKWCHFi001-B-1) and knock-out (LEMD2-KO; UKWCHFi001-B-2) iPSC lines were generated in a healthy control iPSC (UKWCHFi001-B) line using CRISPR/Cas9 gene editing. Both new iPSC lines retained pluripotency, normal karyotypes, and differentiation potential, whereby expression of LEMD2 was successfully disrupted in LEMD2-KO cells. Thus, these lines provide a suitable model for analyzing LEMD2-associated diseases.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Objective: To analyze the heterogeneity of response to first-line camrelizumab combined with chemotherapy in patients with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) by pretreatment circulating cell-free DNA (cfDNA) sequencing. Methods: A total of 30 patients with human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-negative locally advanced or advanced ESCC who received first-line camrelizumab combined with chemotherapy in the Department of Oncology, Changzhi People's Hospital, from June 2020 to April 2023 were enrolled. Follow-up was conducted until May 30, 2024, with a median follow-up duration of 15.9 months. Differences in cfDNA sequencing profiles between the ORR group (complete response + partial response, n=15), and the Non-ORR group (stable disease + progressive disease, n=15), were analyzed. Base substitution types, functional mutation categories, and mutation frequencies were compared to identify differentially mutated cfDNA genes. The associations between gene mutation status and progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) were further evaluated. Results: In both the Non-ORR and ORR groups, the insert fragment lengths showed a unimodal distribution (160-180 bp), consistent with the typical characteristics of cfDNA. C>T transition was the predominant base substitution type (47.6% in the Non-ORR group and 45.9% in the ORR group). Missense mutation was the most common functional mutation type (80.9% in the Non-ORR group and 81.1% in the ORR group). Six differentially mutated genes were identified between the Non-ORR and ORR groups, including KLF14, ITPR1, NKTR, PRRC2B, MAGI2, and TYW1B. Mutations in KLF14, ITPR1, NKTR and PRRC2B may be associated with lack of objective response (all P＜0.05), whereas MAGI2 mutations may be associated with a better treatment response (P=0.050). Survival analysis showed that, within the sample size and follow-up period of this cohort, the median PFS of patients with TYW1B mutant-type and wild-type was not reached and 9.70 months, respectively, and the median OS was 30.90 and 17.80 months, respectively. TYW1B mutation was associated with better PFS (HR=2.658, P=0.049 7) and better OS (HR=3.029, P=0.033). Conclusions: After treatment with camrelizumab combined with chemotherapy for ESCC, molecular characteristics differ among patients with different treatment responses. TYW1B mutation is associated with improved PFS and OS. However, these findings require further validation in larger cohorts.
To systematically review the structural features of secreted frizzled‑related protein 5 (SFRP5) and its dual regulation of canonical/non‑canonical Wnt signaling, analyze its association with metabolic disorders, and specifically explore the role and mechanisms of the SFRP5-lipid metabolism axis in neural and optic nerve development.A systematic literature search was performed to review the molecular structure of SFRP5, its regulation of Wnt pathways, and its relationship with metabolic dysregulation. The mechanisms by which SFRP5 modulates the microglia/astrocyte‑mediated neuroimmune microenvironment, myelination, synaptic plasticity, and neuronal mitochondrial energy homeostasis were analyzed, and current therapeutic strategies targeting the SFRP5 network were summarized.SFRP5 participates in normal central nervous system development by shaping the neuroimmune microenvironment, promoting myelination, regulating synaptic plasticity, and maintaining mitochondrial energy balance. Under obese and diabetic conditions, downregulation of SFRP5 leads to overactivation of Wnt5a/JNK signaling, resulting in lipid metabolic disturbances and neuroinflammation. These changes share common pathological features with neurodevelopmental disorders such as autism spectrum disorder, intellectual disability, optic nerve hypoplasia, and retinal vascular dysplasia. The SFRP5-lipid metabolism axis plays a critical role in neural and optic nerve development, and its dysregulation underlies the neuropathology associated with metabolic diseases. Therapeutic interventions explored to date-including recombinant protein, gene therapy, small‑molecule activators, and acupuncture-have shown promising potential.The SFRP5-lipid metabolism axis represents a key link connecting metabolic disorders with neurodevelopmental abnormalities. Future research should focus on spatiotemporal specificity at single‑cell resolution, elucidation of gene-environment interactions, and the development of efficient central nervous system delivery systems, thereby providing new avenues for the prevention and treatment of neural and optic nerve developmental abnormalities.© 2026 The Author(s). Immunity, Inflammation and Disease published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) are critical regulators of cancer progression, immune dynamics, and therapeutic response. MAGI2-AS3 has been implicated in multiple malignancies; however, its pan-cancer relevance and specific role in colorectal cancer (CRC) remain incompletely understood.MAGI2-AS3 expression was analyzed across cancers using bulk (TCGA, GTEx) and single-cell RNA-seq data. Functional enrichment, survival (Kaplan-Meier, Cox regression), diagnostic (ROC), immune infiltration (8 algorithms), immunotherapy response, drug sensitivity, and genomic/epigenetic analyses were performed. Expression was validated by RT-qPCR in 10 paired CRC tissues.MAGI2-AS3 expression exhibited marked heterogeneity across cancer types, with consistent downregulation in CRC and preferential enrichment in stromal and myeloid cell populations. Functional analyses linked MAGI2-AS3 to epithelial-mesenchymal transition, immune regulation, and cytokine signaling. While prognostic associations were context dependent across cancers, CRC demonstrated a distinct pattern: MAGI2-AS3 was consistently downregulated and showed robust diagnostic performance. Paradoxically, higher expression within tumors was associated with poorer survival outcomes and an inflamed yet immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment characterized by reduced response to immune checkpoint blockade, indicating a complex, compartment-specific role. Drug sensitivity and epigenetic analyses further underscored cancer-type-specific regulatory patterns, which were experimentally validated by RT-qPCR in CRC tissues.MAGI2-AS3 functions as a context-dependent regulator with strong diagnostic relevance and complex prognostic implications in colorectal cancer. Its involvement in immune modulation, therapeutic response, and tumor progression highlights its potential as a biomarker for precision oncology, warranting further mechanistic and clinical investigation.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study aimed to explore the relationship between heavy metal exposure and the occurrence of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), an area with conflicting existing research and unexplored genetic implications.Data from 444 individuals working in metal industries and 767 people working in non-metal-related jobs were analyzed. Patients with viral hepatitis or alcoholism were excluded. The data included physical examination, biochemical data, and plasma concentrations of six different metals. We utilized the genomic database of the Taiwan Biobank to conduct the GWAS. Further analysis was performed using multivariable logistic regression and an interaction study.Patients with NAFLD had higher plasma concentrations of Se, Zn, Cu, and Pb, although none reached statistical significance. The Cu level was significant in the multiple logistic regression analysis. Our findings revealed a significant association between NAFLD and only two SNPs: rs879304 in the MAGI2 gene showed A > G OR = 0.67 (95% CI: 0.52, 0.86), and rs80040482 in the SNX19 gene C > A (OR = 2.21, 95% CI: 1.39, 3.49). We also examined 25 SNPs from various genes previously linked to NAFLD. However, none of these showed any significant relationship with NAFLD in multivariable logistic regression and interaction analyses.Our findings suggest that plasma copper levels were associated with NAFLD. In addition, exploratory analyses suggested that the association between blood copper and NAFLD may vary according to genetic variants in MAGI2 and SNX19. Given the cross-sectional design, these findings should be interpreted as associations only and require confirmation in longitudinal and mechanistic studies.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Bax, a key member of the B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2) protein family, is essential for inducing mitochondrial apoptosis. In this study, we employed yeast two-hybrid screening to identify ubiquitin-specific protease 49 (USP49) as a binding partner of Bax. Subsequent immunoprecipitation and glutathione S-transferase (GST) pull-down assays confirmed their direct interaction. Functional assays showed that USP49 reduces Bax polyubiquitination at multiple lysine residues within ubiquitin, with the strongest effects observed on K11, K29, K33, and K63 linkages. In contrast, its effect on K48-linked ubiquitination was weak and insufficient to influence Bax protein stability, indicating that USP49 does not regulate Bax abundance through proteasomal degradation. Instead, RT-qPCR analysis revealed that USP49 overexpression significantly increased Bax mRNA levels, and this effect was maintained under apoptosis stimuli (UV, H2O2, and STS), indicating transcriptional regulation largely independent of stress-induced damage, whereas its effect was modest and not statistically significant under starurosporine treatment. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that USP49 regulates Bax primarily through K29/K33/K63-linked ubiquitination and transcriptional upregulation, highlighting its role as a stress-responsive modulator of apoptosis and a potential therapeutic target in cancer. Moreover, under DNA damage condition (UV), USP49 overexpression marked enhanced apoptosis.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558438 is a review article
Altered energy metabolism is a shared driver across cardiometabolic diseases-the leading cause of death globally1. Energy metabolism varies between individuals and is partly heritable2-9. Here, to investigate the genetic basis of energy metabolism, we perform an exome-sequencing analysis of 1,032,116 people from America, Europe and Asia, and estimate associations between rare protein-coding variants and the ratio of triglyceride to high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol (TG:HDL)-an energy-state biomarker that we associate with diverse cardiometabolic risk factors and diseases. We identify 59 independent genes (P < 1.04 × 10-7) that are enriched for liver- and adipose-expressed master regulators of energy balance, storage and metabolism; 23 (39%) of these genes encode approved or clinical-stage drug targets. Ultra-rare protein-truncating variants in FNIP1 (allele frequency, 0.01%), which encodes a suppressor of energy expenditure and mitochondrial metabolism, are associated with a lower TG:HDL ratio, lower liver fat, lower glycaemia, favourable fat distribution and around 60% lower odds of cardiometabolic disease. FNIP1 knockdown in primary human hepatocytes induces lipid breakdown and lysosomal gene expression, while combined hepatic knockdown of Fnip1 with its paralogue Fnip2 or knockdown of its interactor Flcn protect against weight gain, reduce liver fat and enhance insulin sensitivity in mice fed a high-fat diet. Our study implicates the FNIP1 pathway in human energy metabolism and highlights its inhibition as a potential therapeutic strategy in cardiometabolic disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
Light-activatable CRISPR-Cas systems offer an effective strategy to overcome the kinetic incompatibility in one-pot nucleic acid assays; however, their practical application remains limited by high reagent cost, the lack of compatible reaction buffers, and reliance on instrument-dependent readout. In this work, we developed a cost-effective light-controlled one-pot ERA/CRISPR-Cas12a platform for rapid hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA detection. NPOM-caged crRNA was employed to temporarily suppress Cas12a activity during amplification and to trigger target-dependent trans-cleavage by a brief 30 s UV irradiation. By replacing RPA with ERA, the per-reaction reagent cost of the one-pot assay was reduced from approximately US$6.0 to US$2.0, corresponding to a reduction of approximately 66.7%, while maintaining comparable analytical performance. In addition, a PEG-free unified buffer was established through systematic optimization, enabling efficient integration of ERA and Cas12a reactions in a sealed single-tube format. The proposed platform provided dual-mode readout through fluorescence and lateral flow assay (LFA), with a limit of detection of 1 copy μL-1 and a total assay time of 30 min. Clinical evaluation using 79 serum samples showed a sensitivity of 100% for fluorescence readout and 96.3% for LFA, with excellent agreement with qPCR (Cohen's κ = 0.94 - 1.00). Owing to its low cost, high sensitivity, and operational simplicity, this platform represents a promising tool for rapid HBV molecular diagnosis in both centralized laboratories and resource-limited settings.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Drug resistance limits the long-term survival of patients with multiple myeloma. The role of tRNA-derived fragments (tsRNAs) in bortezomib resistance in myeloma remains unknown. In this study, the most significantly upregulated tsRNA in relapsed/refractory myeloma was screened. RNA interference was used to explore the function of this tsRNA. The mechanism of the tsRNA-mediated resistance was explored by Ago-RIP-sequencing, dual-luciferase reporter assay, and transmission electron microscopy. tRF-17-8SPOL52 was identified as the most highly expressed tsRNA in relapsed/refractory myeloma. tRF-17-8SPOL52 promoted bortezomib resistance in vitro and in vivo. Ago-RIP-sequencing and dual-luciferase reporter assay showed that tRF-17-8SPOL52 negatively regulated RUBCN. Data from Ago-silenced myeloma cells suggested that the regulation of RUBCN by tRF-17-8SPOL52 was Ago-dependent. Further research showed increased autophagy induced by tRF-17-8SPOL52. In constructed RUBCN overexpressed or inhibited myeloma cells, tRF-17-8SPOL52 promoted cell autophagy by inhibiting RUBCN. Rescue experiments with chloroquine and rapamycin showed that tRF-17-8SPOL52 mediated bortezomib resistance by promoting autophagy. We concluded that tRF-17-8SPOL52 activates autophagy by inhibiting RUBCN in an Ago-dependent manner, which in turn leads to bortezomib resistance in myeloma.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Epithelioid angiomyolipoma (E-AML) is a rare renal tumor, which can exhibit malignant potential. Because angiomyolipomas frequently harbor TSC1/TSC2 alterations, mTOR inhibitors are commonly used. However, durable disease control remains inconsistent. The potential for long-lasting response with immune checkpoint inhibitors supports exploring their role in E-AML. We report a patient with highly symptomatic, locally advanced renal E-AML treated with first-line ipilimumab plus nivolumab. The patient experienced rapid symptomatic and radiographic improvement after treatment initiation. She subsequently developed immune-related sarcoidosis, which resolved after discontinuation of immunotherapy and with corticosteroids. Given sustained disease control, she underwent delayed nephrectomy demonstrating complete pathologic response in the primary tumor. Genomic analysis revealed a germline mutation in FLCN consistent with Birt-Hogg-Dubé syndrome. T-cell receptor sequencing identified a shared expanded T-cell clone in peripheral blood and within the tumor. With extended follow-up for over 5 years, she remains in durable remission after dual immune checkpoint blockade. To our knowledge, this is the first report of dual immune checkpoint blockade in renal E-AML. This case demonstrates that first-line ipilimumab plus nivolumab can induce deep, durable response-including complete pathologic response-in a rare malignancy with limited standard treatment options, supporting further evaluation of immunotherapy in this disease.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Accurate and rapid detection of RNA biomarkers is crucial for early disease diagnosis and infectious disease management. Although RT-qPCR remains the gold standard, its utility for point-of-care testing is limited by run-to-run variability and dependence on specialized instrumentation. Conversely, colorimetric assays offer operational simplicity but generally fall short of the sensitivity and specificity demanded for reliable applications. To bridge this gap, we present an innovative cut-and-bind colorimetric RNA detection platform that synergistically integrates the sequence-specific programmable cleavage fidelity of CRISPR/Cas12a with zinc finger protein-mediated gold nanoparticle assembly (termed CasFinger-Gold). Strategically engineered ssDNA-dsDNA hybrid overhang probes sharpened target discrimination while minimizing off-target background, ensuring robust readouts within complex biological matrices. When coupled with reverse transcription-recombinase polymerase amplification, the CasFinger-Gold system achieved visually interpretable RNA detection with a limit of detection of 1.8 × 103 copies μL-1 for HCoV-OC43 viral RNA and 0.4 ng total RNA μL-1 for the long non-coding RNA PCA3. The platform further enabled direct, rapid (<120 min), purification-free PCA3 detection from cell-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs) at clinically relevant vesicle inputs (down to ∼106 EVs μL-1). Notably, no cross-reactivity was observed against four phylogenetically distinct respiratory viruses or in PCA3-negative cell lines. By delivering instrument-free visual readouts comparable to RT-qPCR, CasFinger-Gold represents a versatile diagnostic modality poised to expand the molecular diagnostic toolbox toward accessible point-of-care solutions.
Hypoxia-inducible factor 1α (HIF-1α) broadly orchestrates metabolic reprogramming in inflammatory macrophages. However, how HIF-1α shapes the earliest events following activation of pattern recognition receptors and triggers inflammatory responses remain unclear. We found that HIF-1α is functionally active shortly after macrophage inflammatory stimulation via a Rubicon (RUBCN)-NADPH oxidase (NOX2) reactive oxygen species (ROS) circuit, driving glycolysis, cytokine production, and bacterial killing before maximal protein accumulation. Early HIF-1α stabilization primes inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) expression and nitric oxide (NO) production, which subsequently suppresses electron transport chain function and induces mitochondrial dysfunction independently of RUBCN and NOX2. These findings elucidate a temporally coordinated HIF-1α pathway that integrates RUBCN-NOX2 redox signaling to control macrophage inflammation, metabolic adaptation, and antimicrobial defense.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Although several ancillary tests are available in limited laboratories, diagnosis of microphthalmia (MiT)/TFE family translocation renal cell carcinoma (tRCC) could be challenging due to diverse and overlapping tumor morphology and the lack of reliable biomarkers. GPNMB has been recently identified as a diagnostic marker for various renal neoplasms with FLCN/TSC/mTOR-TFE alterations. However, the sensitivity and specificity of GPNMB immunostain are suboptimal and the result interpretation in ambiguous cases could be difficult. To search additional biomarkers that could improve the screening sensitivity and predict genetic aberrations in FLCN/TSC/mTOR-TFE pathway in renal tumors, we performed bioinformatic analysis of publicly available cancer databases and found GPR143, a transmembrane protein regulated by MiT transcription factors, was highly expressed in a subset of renal cell carcinomas (RCCs). In two kidney cancer cohorts of the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), RCCs with high levels of GPR143 expression were enriched for renal neoplasms with FLCN/TSC/mTOR-TFE alterations. Similar to GPNMB labeling, GPR143 immunostain was positive in the majority of tRCC cases and renal tumors with FLCN/TSC/mTOR alterations, suggesting that GPR143 could function as another surrogate marker for FLCN/TSC/mTOR-TFE alterations in certain renal tumors. Interestingly, despite the concordant GPR143 and GPNMB immunoreactivity in most renal neoplasms with FLCN/TSC/mTOR-TFE alterations, diffuse GPR143 immunostain was observed in some cases with negative or focal GPNMB labeling. Taken together, our results indicate GPR143 could serve as a useful adjunct marker to improve the sensitivity for screening renal tumors with FLCN/TSC/mTOR-TFE alterations.© 2026. The Author(s).
Harmful algal blooms (HABs) and pathogenic microorganisms threaten coastal ecosystems and public health, requiring rapid field-deployable detection. Herein, we present an integrated paper-based platform combining polymerase chain reaction (PCR), surface-enhanced Raman scattering (SERS), and lateral flow assay (LFA) for on-site nucleic acid detection. The platform integrates a miniature thermal cycler, lyophilized paper-based reaction chambers, and a capillary-driven detection pen for contamination-free transfer and dual-mode readout. The platform achieved limits of detection of 101-102 copies μL-1 by SERS and 103-104 copies μL-1 by visualization for Enterococcus spp., Escherichia coli, Alexandrium tamarense, and Noctiluca scintillans, with complete amplification and detection within 30 min. Field validation at a coastal bathing beach showed agreement with laboratory-based quantitative PCR (qPCR), with only one discordant result out of 36 environmental samples, demonstrating comparable performance to the current gold-standard method while offering portability and rapid on-site response. Furthermore, the platform identified Ulva prolifera (a key driver of green tide) micropropagules as small as 600 μm and enabled large-scale mapping of overwintering zones across the Yellow-Bohai Sea. This platform supports rapid environmental monitoring and public health surveillance.© 2026 American Chemical Society.
Extranodal NK/T-cell lymphoma (ENKTL) and primary Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-positive nodal T/NK-cell lymphoma (nodal-TNKL) are aggressive lymphomas with overlapping clinicopathologic features but distinct underlying biology. While their genomic landscapes have been increasingly defined, comparative epigenetic characterization remains limited. We performed methylated DNA immunoprecipitation sequencing (MeDIP-seq) on formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded samples from ENKTL, nodal-TNKL, ENKTL cell lines, and control tissues. ENKTL displayed extensive promoter hypermethylation associated with repression of tumor suppressor genes, lineage regulators, and lymphoid signaling genes, including LEF1 and BANK1, together with focal hypomethylation of immune- and interferon-responsive genes such as IFITM1. In contrast, nodal-TNKL showed global hypomethylation, particularly affecting cytotoxicity, immune-response, and antigen-presentation pathways; TET2-mutated nodal-TNKL cases exhibited locus-specific methylation changes. Across all samples, global DNA methylation levels correlated with genomic instability. Unsupervised clustering identified two epigenetically distinct ENKTL subgroups, one characterized by higher global methylation, TP53 loss, increased copy number alterations and loss of heterozygosity and significantly poorer overall survival. Together, this study defines fundamental epigenetic differences between ENKTL and nodal-TNKL and links DNA methylation dynamics to genomic instability and clinical outcome, highlighting the value of methylation profiling for refined classification, risk stratification and therapeutic guidance.© 2026. The Author(s).
It has been hypothesized that age‑related declines in skeletal muscle and vascular function in females may be partly estrogen‑dependent. This study investigated skeletal muscle protein expression of estrogen receptor α (ERα), estrogen receptor β (ERβ), and G protein-coupled estrogen receptor 1 (GPER1), and their association with proteins involved in redox regulation and vascular function, in relation to age, menopausal status, and lifelong physical activity. Skeletal muscle biopsies were obtained from 107 healthy females aged 19-70 years, including 26 postmenopausal females who were lifelong exercise trained. Protein expression of ERα, ERβ, GPER1, and downstream redox‑ and vascular‑related proteins was quantified. Age‑ and menopause‑related differences, associations between protein targets, and effects of lifelong exercise were examined. ERα protein expression was lower in older females with a 48% lower expression in the ≥ 55 years age group compared with the < 30-year group. GPER1 protein expression was 22% lower across all older age groups compared with the < 30-year group. ERβ expression was reduced in mid‑life (45-59 years) but not in the oldest age group. Both ERα and ERβ were positively correlated with endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) expression, whereas GPER1 showed no association with eNOS. ERβ expression was associated with pro‑oxidative NOX2 expression. Aging in females is associated with a lower ERα and GPER1 protein expression in skeletal muscle. Furthermore, lower ER expression by aging is associated with a lower eNOS expression, indicating associations with proteins involved in nitric oxide-related redox regulation in skeletal muscle in aged females.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study investigated the effects of BPAF on the indicators related to inflammatory response and explored the roles of G protein estrogen membrane receptor 1 (GPER1) in this process. The results found that BPAF promoted the secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as IL-1β, IL-8 and TNF-α, increased the protein expression of IL-1β and IL-6, and upregulated the relative mRNA levels of inflammatory related genes in Jurkat cells. In vivo SD rat experiments also found that BPAF exposure significantly upregulated the levels of serum inflammatory cytokines, elevated the relative mRNA expression of inflammatory related genes in immune organs, and induced the damage of immune organs. In addition, BPAF upregulated the protein expression of GPER1 and elevated the relative mRNA levels of PI3K, AKT and MAPKs genes in Jurkat cells. GPER1 inhibitor G15 suppressed the upregulation of MAPK3, PI3K and AKT genes and concurrently inhibited the relative mRNA levels of inflammatory response genes, indicating that GPER1 activates the PI3K/AKT and MAPK signaling pathways and that this activation contributes to BPAF-induced inflammatory response at the transcriptional level. Molecular docking further confirmed that BPAF directly binds to GPER1. These results suggest that BPAF induces immunotoxicity by activating GPER1-mediated PI3K/AKT and MAPK signaling pathways.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42416401 is a review article
Chronic pain affects approximately one fifth of people worldwide and displays a huge burden for health care institutions. Some chronic pain conditions have a higher prevalence in women than men. Previous studies related these sex-specific differences to sex-hormone receptor activation and interaction with pain-related receptors like the transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1). Here, especially estrogen seems to play a crucial role. While the role of estrogen receptor alpha and beta in modulating TRPV1 has already been studied, the interplay of the membrane-bound and G-protein -coupled estrogen receptor (GPER1) with nociceptor-associated ion channels is still unknown. The study at hand focuses on the establishment of a human induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) -based nociceptor model to unravel the effect of GPER1 activation on nociceptor excitability. Therefore, a human dermal fibroblast cell line was successfully reprogrammed into the iPSC line BO-VC1 and subsequently differentiated into nociceptors expressing GPER1 besides TRPV1 and the Twik-related spinal cord potassium channel (TRESK). The activation of GPER1 by its specific agonist G-1 led to significantly reduced action potential firing rates and TRPV1-mediated calcium influx. In addition, GPER1 was found to downregulate TRPV1-mediated ion currents upon G-1 treatment in a human embryonic kidney cell -based model. Our findings support the hypothesis that GPER1 activation silences neuronal excitability in nociceptors, probably being a candidate for future research focusing on targeted pain modulation.© 2026. The Author(s).
As compilations of natural products, Traditional Chinese medicines (TCMs) formulae constitute a rich resource for novel drug discovery. Nevertheless, their complex composition brought about significant challenges in identifying bioactive constituents. Chai-Gui Decoction (CGD) is a combination of two classic prescriptions commonly employed in gynecological therapeutics, and its active ingredients remain uncharacterized.This study aimed to establish a cell-based affinity mass spectrometry strategy for the rapid discovery of the active components from complex TCM formulae. This study chose CGD as an example and the G protein-coupled estrogen receptor (GPER) as a target.A stable HEK293-T cell line overexpressing GPER-1 were established and incubated with CGD to execute ligand screening. Cell membrane fragments were harvested, and the ligand-bound components were isolated and identified by using UPLC-QTOF/MS. The theoretical binding affinities of the fished ligands for GPER were calculated via molecular docking. The compounds exhibiting the highest theoretical affinity were further managed to binding validation using a cellular thermal shift assay (CETSA), and their activity was confirmed through cell-based experiments.A novel fishing assay was developed, which integrated ligand-receptor binding in live cells, cell membrane extraction and lysis, and liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry identification. Seven compounds from the CGD extract demonstrated significantly higher detection levels in GPER-overexpressing cells compared to vehicle control cells. Molecular docking analyses further indicated high binding affinities between these compounds and the GPER protein. Among them, the two compounds with the highest predicted affinity, 16α-Hydroxytrametenolic acid (16α-HTA) and Alisol A, were confirmed to bind GPER by altering its thermal stability in CETSA. Subsequent cellular investigations revealed that 16α-HTA and Alisol A reduced GPER expression at a low dose and suppressed AKT phosphorylation independently of EGFR.The present study proposes a feasible strategy integrating cell extraction, UPLC-QTOF/MS analysis, molecular docking simulation, CETSA and cell-based experiments, which enables the effective exploration and validation of ligands for protein targets within complex mixtures.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Vulvar squamous cell carcinoma (VSCC), while relatively rare, is associated with significant morbidity. Activation of G-protein coupled estrogen receptor 1 (GPER1), which has a tumor-suppressing effect in VSCC, leads to reduced expression of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1). PAI-1, a key regulator of the plasminogen activation system, is overexpressed in various cancers and is linked to poor prognosis. Its role and potential as a therapeutic target in VSCC remain poorly explored. This study investigated the effects of the specific PAI-1 inhibitor tiplaxtinin (PAI-039, TPX) on the aggressive behavior of VSCC cells in vitro.Expression of PAI-1 was verified by western blot. The effects of TPX treatment on viability, proliferation, migration, and invasion of A431 and Cal-39 VSCC cells were assessed using AlamarBlue, crystal violet, gap closure, and Boyden chamber assays, respectively. Apoptosis was examined using the Annexin V/propidium iodide (PI) assay.Both VSCC cell lines showed PAI-1 expression. With increasing TPX concentrations, viability and proliferation of the VSCC cells decreased significantly. Cell migration and invasion were both significantly reduced under treatment with the PAI-1 inhibitor. Apoptosis was not significantly induced by TPX.PAI-1 inhibitor TPX showed a strong inhibitory effect on VSCC cells, significantly reducing their viability, proliferation, migration and invasive capacity. This compound showed a strong ability to suppress important cell functions associated with cancer progression, making it a promising candidate for VSCC therapy to specifically inhibit growth and spread of VSCC.Copyright © 2026, International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
Background/Objectives: The G protein-coupled estrogen receptor (GPER) is known to interact with cellular stress responses and DNA damage pathways. Therefore, exposure to ionizing radiation may modulate the biological consequences of single-nucleotide polymorphisms in the GPR30 gene. This study aims to evaluate the association between GPER polymorphisms and radiation sensitivity. Methods: The study included 50 healthcare workers exposed to ionizing radiation and 36 healthy individuals with no known occupational exposure to radiation. Genomic DNA was isolated and PCR products were purified using GeneAll kits. Genomic regions encompassing three GPER single-nucleotide polymorphisms (rs3808350, rs3808351, and rs11544331) were amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR), followed by DNA sequencing analysis using the BigDye Cycle Sequencing Kit. In addition, an in silico functional and clinical annotation of rs11544331 was performed using Ensembl VEP, SIFT, PolyPhen-2, AlphaMissense, CADD, UniProt, and ClinVar. Results: Genotypic, dominant, and allelic analyses revealed no significant association between radiation exposure and the rs3808350 or rs3808351 polymorphisms. In contrast, a statistically significant association was observed for rs11544331. The frequency of individuals carrying the CT and TT genotypes (CT + TT) was significantly higher in the ionizing radiation-exposed group compared with the control group (OR = 2.981; 95% CI: 1.106-7.904; p = 0.0241). In allelic analysis, the T allele was more prevalent in the exposed group and was significantly associated with radiation exposure (OR = 2.959; 95% CI: 1.282-6.606; p = 0.0110). In silico analysis confirmed that rs11544331 corresponds to the p.Pro16Leu substitution in GPER1; however, SIFT, PolyPhen-2, AlphaMissense, CADD, and ClinVar consistently indicated a tolerated, benign, likely benign, or low-deleteriousness profile. Conclusions: GPER-mediated stress responses and genetic polymorphisms may play a potential role in determining genetic susceptibility following exposure to ionizing radiation.
Background: Hypertension (HTN) is a multifactorial condition involving alterations in vascular signaling, inflammation, and oxidative stress. Women during the menopausal transition may experience increased cardiovascular risk due to hormonal fluctuations, highlighting the need for circulating biomarkers that may assist in identifying HTN-related biological changes. This study aimed to evaluate circulating biomarkers reflecting estrogen signaling, inflammation, and oxidative stress, and to assess their diagnostic accuracy in HTN. Methods: This cross-sectional study included 54 treatment-naïve hypertensive women and 30 age-matched normotensive controls, all in the menopausal transition period. Serum levels of GPER-1, 8-iso-PGF2α, raftlin-1, and estradiol were measured using ELISA. Associations between biomarkers and body mass index (BMI) were examined using Spearman correlation. Diagnostic discrimination was examined using ROC curve analysis, and optimal cut-off points were determined using the Youden index. Results: Serum levels of GPER-1, 8-iso-PGF2α, and raftlin-1 were significantly higher in the HTN group compared to controls, while estradiol showed a modest increase. No significant associations were found between BMI and any of the measured biomarkers within the HTN group. ROC analysis demonstrated that 8-iso-PGF2α and raftlin-1 showed the highest diagnostic accuracy for distinguishing HTN patients from controls, followed by GPER-1, whereas estradiol showed limited diagnostic value. High sensitivity and specificity values further supported the diagnostic potential of 8-iso-PGF2α and raftlin-1. Conclusions: These findings suggest that serum raftlin-1 and 8-iso-PGF2α levels may serve as potential biomarkers for distinguishing hypertension in women during the menopausal transition, while GPER-1 also demonstrated good diagnostic accuracy. The lack of association with BMI suggests relative independence from adiposity-related effects. However, further validation in larger and well-characterized cohorts is required.
Prostate cancer ranks as the most diagnosed oncological disease in Slovak men and the third most common cause of their cancer related mortality. G-protein coupled estrogen receptor 1 (GPER1) is estrogen receptor mediating fast non-genomic estrogen signaling and shown potential as therapeutic target for later stages of the disease and in chemoprevention. However, little is currently known about the impact of genetic variability in the GPER1 gene on the prostate cancer risk and disease characteristics.Genomic DNA samples isolated from peripheral blood of 701 prostate cancer patients and 659 healthy men were used for the single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) analysis. The presence of GPER1 SNPs (rs3808350, rs3808351, rs11544331) was determined by ARMS-PCR. GPER1 expression was quantified by semi-quantitative RT-PCR using mRNA isolated from prostate cancer tissues and using benign prostate hyperplasia tissues as a control. The GPER1 SNP rs3808350 was associated with a higher risk of developing prostate cancer, especially in patients with a Gleason score ≥ 7 and with nodal and distant metastases. No association was found between the rs3808351 and rs11544331 and prostate cancer. No significant changes in GPER1 expression were found.The GPER1 rs3808350 was associated with a higher risk of prostate cancer as well as with its characteristics and appears to influence prostate cancer susceptibility and aggressiveness. In the future, these findings could help in personalized treatment and prognosis determination.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42220428 is a review article
B-lymphocyte-induced maturation protein 1 (Blimp1) is a highly conserved transcription factor that governs cell fate specification in metazoan. In this study, we identified LvBlimp1 as a stress-responsive protein in shrimp hemolymph. Functional knockdown assays revealed that LvBlimp1 silencing significantly impaired cellular immunity, as evidenced by reduced total hemocyte counts, decreased hemocyte viability and phagocytic efficiency, accompanied by elevated intracellular ROS levels and diminished lysozyme expression. Fluorescence activated cell sorter (FACS) analysis demonstrated that LvBlimp1 is predominantly enriched in phagocytic hemocytes. Comparative transcriptomic profiling and qPCR validation further demonstrated that depletion of LvBlimp1 downregulated the expression of key marker genes associated with shrimp macrophage-like phagocytes, including CHF, NPC2, NLRP3, Casp1, zfh1, and CHIT1. Mechanistically, co-immunoprecipitation assays confirmed that LvHes1 physically interacts with LvBlimp1 and is functionally associated with the regulation of a set of common immune genes. Functional ablation of either LvHes1 or LvBlimp1 in shrimp hemocytes compromised host antibacterial defense. These two TFs synergistically regulated the expression of key genes including CIB1 and IMC1. Taken together, our data indicate that LvBlimp-1 and LvHes1 synergistically regulate shrimp macrophage-like phagocyte activity.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
This study explores programmed cell death (PCD)-related genes in osteosarcoma through bioinformatics and experimental validation.Analysis of datasets from the GEO and TCGA databases identified 5,327 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), among which 294 overlapped with PCD-related genes.LASSO regression analysis identified six hub genes, and five of these (CIB1, CREB3L1, IL6R, TGFβ2, and TNFRSF10C) were further validated in osteosarcoma tissues. Notably, CIB1 exhibited significantly elevated expression and was selected for in-depth analysis. CIB1 downregulation inhibited osteosarcoma cell proliferation and invasion by inducing apoptosis and causing G2/M phase cell cycle arrest, and was associated with increased p53 expression, decreased phosphorylation of Akt and STAT3, and altered BCL2/BAX ratios, suggesting involvement of these pathways in the observed effects.In vitro experiments confirmed the tumor-suppressive role of CIB1 inhibition. These findings highlight CIB1 as a promising therapeutic target for osteosarcoma treatment.© 2026. The Author(s).
Ulcerative colitis (UC) patients carry a 2.5-fold increased risk of colorectal cancer (CRC), yet the shared multi-scale genetic architecture remains poorly understood. We constructed an integrative framework across tissue, cellular, and variant levels to systematically dissect the pathogenic evolution of this comorbidity across spatiotemporal dimensions.We integrated GWAS data from 100,204 CRC cases and 12,160 UC patients with tissue-specific MAGMA enrichment, embryonic spatial mapping (gsMap), and multidimensional single-cell prioritization (ECLIPSER, CELLECT, scDRS). We further resolved cell-specific co-expression patterns using hdWGCNA and identified high-confidence causal variants and genes through Bayesian fine-mapping (eCAVIAR, fastenloc) and Open4Gene analysis.Genetic susceptibility for both diseases was significantly enriched in the terminal ileum and transverse colon, anchored to E16.5 embryonic gut programs. CD4 + T cells emerged as the core immune hub in UC, exhibiting profound immunometabolic polarization (Th17/IL-17 axis and Warburg effect), while progenitors were identified as the primary cellular origin for CRC malignancy. Pathological progression was characterized by a transition from chronic inflammatory stress toward p53-mediated genomic instability, epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), and vascular remodeling. We prioritized Tier 1 candidate genes-ARPC5, PTGER4, CIB1, PREX1, and S100A10-as key mediators of the comorbidity association between inflammation and cancer.These findings partially support a "genetic programming-microenvironment triggering" hypothesis, where regional vulnerabilities established by embryonic developmental programs are activated by postnatal insults, though its broad applicability warrants caution. This study provides a comprehensive multi-scale molecular framework for understanding UC-CRC comorbidity, offering potential targets for risk stratification and therapeutic intervention.© 2026. The Author(s).
We examined gene expression profiles in abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) lesions vs. normal aortas by cDNA microarray and real-time quantitative reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR).Phosphorus (32P)-labeled cDNA from AAA specimens (mean AAA size 6.65 cm) and normal aortas were hybridized with a 588-gene microarray primarily of the cardiovascular system. The results were validated by qRT-PCR.A total of 35 out of the 588 genes were differentially expressed, with either log2 ratio of AAAs/controls ≥1 (upregulated; 20 genes) or ≤-1 (downregulated; 15 genes) in AAA lesions vs. normal aorta, and 25 of these were significantly different (71%). Expression of matrix metalloproteinase 9, TIMP metallopeptidase inhibitor 3, collagen type I α 1 chain (COL1A1), COL6A3, COL15A1, intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM1), ICAM2, decorin, endoglin, apolipoprotein D (APOD), APOE, phospholipid transfer protein, calcium and integrin binding 1 (CIB1), phospholipase A2 group IIA, von Willebrand factor, serpin family B member 6 (SERPINB6), urokinase-type plasminogen activator, H19, C-C motif chemokine ligand 2, and platelet-derived growth factor receptor beta was upregulated in AAA vs. normal aorta. Expression of collagen type IV α 4 chain (COL4A4), COL11A2, gap junction protein α 1 (GJA1), biglycan, integrin subunit α 8, galectin-1, low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 1, acetyl-CoA acyltransferase, serpin family E member 1, melanoma cellular adhesion molecule, sodium channel epithelial 1 subunit beta (SCNN1B), natriuretic peptide receptor 1 (NPR1), superoxide dismutase 3, actinin α 1 (ACTN1) and cardiac phospholamban (PLN) was downregulated.Eleven genes differentially expressed (p≤0.05) in AAA lesions vs. normal aortas were not reported previously: upregulated: COL6A3, COL15A1, ICAM2, APOD, CIB and SERPINB6; downregulated: GJA1, SCNN1B, NPR1, ACTN1 and PLN. Remaining results confirmed previous reports regarding 21 genes differentially expressed in AAA. qRT-PCR results were in general in agreement with microarray results.Copyright © 2026, International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41886548
Pathogenic cardiac hypertrophy, often driven by mechanical stress, is a leading cause of heart failure. However, effective therapeutic targets remain limited. TMC6 (transmembrane channel-like protein 6) is abundant in healthy myocardium but downregulated in hypertrophic hearts; its role in cardiac hypertrophy remains undefined.We combined cardiac-specific Tmc6 knockout mice subjected to transverse aortic constriction surgery, neonatal rat ventricular myocytes, and CRISPR/Cas9-edited human pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes to assess hypertrophy and signaling readouts. Subcellular localization, protein-protein interaction, and competitive peptide assays were used to dissect the mechanism. Adeno-associated virus serotype 9 (AAV9)-cTnT (cardiac troponin T)-TMC6 was used for in vivo rescue.TMC6 deficiency increased cardiomyocyte size, fetal gene expression, and adverse remodeling in vivo and in vitro, whereas TMC6 overexpression blunted hypertrophic responses. Full-length TMC6 localized to the endoplasmic reticulum and bound CIB1 (calcium and integrin-binding protein 1) to sequester it in the endoplasmic reticulum, limiting CIB1 access to sarcolemmal Ca2+ microdomains required to scaffold calcineurin and activate NFAT (nuclear factor of activated T cells). A cell-permeable TMC6161-180 peptide competitively displaced CIB1 from TMC6 and augmented hypertrophy in wild-type but not Tmc6 knockout cardiomyocytes, indicating a dominant-negative mechanism. Therapeutically, AAV9-cTnT-TMC6 restored TMC6-CIB1 engagement, suppressed calcineurin/NFAT readouts, and improved function after pressure overload.TMC6 is an endogenous brake on pathological hypertrophy that restrains CIB1-calcineurin/NFAT signaling via endoplasmic reticulum sequestration of CIB1. Restoring full-length TMC6 mitigates pressure-overload remodeling, nominating the TMC6-CIB1 axis as a therapeutic target.
Hereditary epidermodysplasia verruciformis (EV) represents a paradigmatic inherited cutaneous syndrome linking viral susceptibility, immunity, and oncogenesis. Although biallelic variants in CIB1, TMC6, and TMC8-encoding components of the keratinocyte-intrinsic antiviral complex-underlie most cases, the full mutational spectrum and its oncologic implications remain incompletely defined. We performed integrated genomic, histopathological, and longitudinal clinical analyses in six affected individuals from five unrelated families with confirmed hereditary EV. Comprehensive short-read sequencing, copy-number assessment, and optical genome mapping (OGM) were used to delineate the underlying genetic alterations, followed by long-range PCR and Sanger validation. Pathogenic or likely pathogenic germline variants affecting TMC6 or TMC8 were identified in all probands, providing molecular confirmation of disease. Four variants were novel, including splice-site, frameshift, and in-frame deletions. In one proband, OGM revealed a previously unrecognised complex del-inv-del structural variant spanning both TMC6 and TMC8-the first reported example in hereditary EV. This rearrangement, confirmed at base-pair resolution, co-segregated with a synonymous TMC8 variant that served as a practical haplotypic marker for carrier testing. Clinically, all patients developed cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), and several exhibited multifocal or aggressive disease, underscoring the deterministic malignant potential of hereditary EV. This study broadens the genetic and phenotypic spectrum of TMC6/TMC8-associated EV, establishes complex structural rearrangement in the molecular etiology, and consolidates hereditary EV as a recessive cancer predisposition syndrome. Integrating high-resolution genome mapping into diagnostic workflows may uncover concealed allelic architecture in unresolved hereditary cancer syndromes.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 41649263 is a review article
Heat stress has deleterious effects on flowering and yield of Tartary buckwheat. In this study, we compared the transcriptomes between thermo-sensitive MQ and adaptive KQ and XQ, in leaves and inflorescences. Compared with adaptive KQ and XQ, flowering genes like FtFT1, FtFT3 and MADS-Box, and developmental genes like PIF3, CIB1, CLAVATA3, YABBY, and HY5 were repressed in thermo-sensitive MQ leaf and inflorescence. Higher proportions of HSPs and HSFs were induced in thermo-sensitive MQ leaf and inflorescence. By using long-read sequencing, we identified DAS events on circadian clock, floral development and heat stress related genes between thermo-sensitive MQ and adaptive XQ. We found the DAS events on PIF, LHY, MADS-Box AGAMOUS and HSF genes generated malfunctional proteins. We speculated that the DAS events on key floral development and heat stress related genes may influence expressions of downstream flowering genes, thus leading to the flowering retardation in thermo-sensitive rice Tartary buckwheat.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Epidermodysplasia verruciformis (EV) is a rare genodermatosis characterized by lifelong β-human papillomavirus (β-HPV) persistence, extensive flat warts, and increased risk of cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma. While TMC6, TMC8, and CIB1 mutations are recognized as genetic drivers, innate immune mechanisms contributing to HPV persistence remain incompletely defined. This study quantified the expression of Toll-like receptors (TLRs) 3, 4, 5, and 9 in normal skin and flat warts from patients with EV and immunocompetent individuals without EV (NEV). We performed immunohistochemical analysis on 135 formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded specimens using standardized digital morphometry of epidermal keratinocytes. EV patients exhibited significantly reduced TLR3 and TLR9 expression in both normal skin and flat warts relative to controls, whereas TLR4 and TLR5 levels were comparable. Notably, flat warts from NEV individuals showed marked TLR3 upregulation relative to matched normal skin, whereas this response was absent in EV patients. These findings are consistent with an EV-associated epithelial innate-sensing phenotype. Our data suggest innate immune deficiencies may interact with previously described keratinocyte abnormalities, amplifying local immune dysfunction. These findings provide a framework for investigating TLR-based therapeutic approaches in EV.© 2025 The Author(s). Journal of Medical Virology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Congenital muscular dystrophies (CMDs) are a genetically heterogeneous group of disorders. Variants in the INPP5K gene, which encodes a phosphoinositide phosphatase, are a rare cause of CMD. The condition is commonly associated with muscle weakness, early-onset cataracts, and intellectual disability, and prior reports have primarily identified missense, frameshift, or deletion variants. We describe the first Chinese case of INPP5K-related muscular dystrophy in a 28-year-old male with a mild phenotype, notably lacking intellectual disability. His presentation included bilateral cataracts at age 5 and adolescent onset limb girdle weakness. Muscle magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed a characteristic pattern of selective fatty infiltration, with severe involvement of gluteal and thigh muscles and striking sparing of the rectus femoris, sartorius, and gracilis. Genetic analysis identified compound heterozygous novel INPP5K variants: a missense c.274C>T, p.(Arg92Cys) and a synonymous c.261G>A, p.(Lys87=) change. Functional studies confirmed the synonymous variant causes aberrant splicing (exon 3 skipping), leading to a frameshift and premature termination p.(Leu52SerfsTer49). According to American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics guidelines, the c.274C>T and c.261G>A variants were classified as likely pathogenic and pathogenic, respectively. This first report of a Chinese patient with INPP5K-related muscular dystrophy broadens both the genetic and clinical spectrum of the disorder. We identify the first disease-causing synonymous variant (via aberrant splicing) and a novel hypomorphic missense variant p.(Arg92Cys), the combination of which explains the attenuated phenotype lacking intellectual disability. Our case highlights the critical role of RNA analysis in diagnosing non-canonical variants and confirms the universal diagnostic relevance of the characteristic muscle MRI pattern.© 2026. Higher Education Press.
Cervical cancer (CESC) is a major gynecological malignancy, and abnormalities in phosphoinositide metabolism (PPM) are closely linked to tumor progression. This study aimed to screen phosphoinositide metabolism-related genes (PPM-RGs) with prognostic value for CESC and explore their molecular mechanisms and clinical significance.CESC transcriptomic datasets and PPM-RGs were retrieved from public databases. Differentially expressed genes were intersected with PPM-RGs to obtain candidate genes. Prognostic genes were screened via univariate Cox regression and proportional hazards assumption test, and a risk model was constructed using random survival forest (RSF). Independent prognostic analysis and nomogram establishment were performed, followed by pathway enrichment, immune infiltration, somatic mutation and single-cell analyses to characterize the tumor microenvironment. Immunohistochemical staining was used to verify the protein expression of key genes in CESC tissues.Twenty candidate genes were initially identified, and two protective prognostic genes VAC14 and INPP5K were finally determined. The risk model showed favorable predictive performance with area under the curve (AUC) over 0.7, and high-risk patients had poorer survival. The nomogram combining risk score and M stage presented high accuracy. The high-risk group exhibited distinct pathway enrichment, altered immune infiltration and low somatic mutation rates. Monocytes were identified as potential key cells with impaired communication and differentiation in CESC. Immunohistochemistry confirmed downregulated expression of the two genes in CESC epithelial cells.VAC14 and INPP5K were PPM-related prognostic genes for CESC. Monocytes played critical roles in CESC progression. The risk model and nomogram aided prognosis prediction, providing new insights for CESC treatment.© 2026. The Author(s).
Inositol polyphosphate 5-phosphatase K (INPP5K) is a phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5)-trisphosphate phosphatase that increases glucose uptake and regulates myogenesis in the skeletal muscle. To understand the mechanism of its species-specific inhibition, we determined the 1.9-Å resolution crystal structure of human INPP5K in complex with a selective inhibitor, CPD-1 (IC50 = 2.9 µM). The structure reveals that CPD-1 binds to a novel allosteric pocket, inducing a large conformational change in α-helix 3 that alters the active site and prevents substrate binding. This finding explains its unique, noncompetitive inhibitory mechanism. Crucially, while the inhibitor-binding residues are conserved, the key residue governing the allosteric transition is not conserved in mouse and rat INPP5K, which correlates with their insensitivity to CPD-1 (IC50 > 100 µM). Based on these structural insights, we identified the hamster as a pharmacologically relevant preclinical model (IC50 = 8.2 µM). These findings provide a structural basis for the rational design of next-generation INPP5K inhibitors and establish a suitable animal model for their evaluation.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41033873 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 40543807 is a review article
Intestinal malrotation is a congenital malformation of the embryonic gut that may cause midgut volvulus either in children or adults. Our understanding of its genetic background stems from reports of syndromic or familial forms and no genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have been reported. We perform the first GWAS to identify common variants associated with this malformation.Subjects were enrolled and genotyped as part of the Mass General Brigham Biobank and individuals with diagnosis of intestinal malrotation were identified. Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) with minor allele frequency ≥ 5% were examined for association with intestinal malrotation using mixed linear model association analysis. SNPs that surpassed the significance threshold (p < 5E-08) were further examined in a separate validation cohort.The derivation cohort included 11,106 individuals (70 [0.6%] cases), and the validation cohort included 4134 individuals (21 [0.5%] cases). Five exonic SNPs in two loci at chromosomes 17p13 (lead SNP rs75147837, beta = 0.0044, and p = 7.97E-10) and 10q26 (lead SNP rs3121846, beta = 0.0057, p = 3.28E-08) had p < 5E-08. After validation, 2 SNPs at 17p13 were associated with the phenotype (rs72631499 adjusted-p = 0.010 and rs148094507 adjusted-p = 0.014). eQTL (expression Quantitative Trait Loci) analysis mapped 6 genes to the identified locus (PITPNA, TRARG1, INPP5K, YWHAE, PITPNA-AS1, and FAM57A).We report results from the first GWAS on intestinal malrotation. A locus at 17p13 is associated with intestinal malrotation and may guide genetic guidance and improve our understanding of this malformation. Rs72631499 was found to be a binding site for HNF4A, a transcription factor that plays important roles in normal embryonic gut development.© 2025 International Society of Surgery/Société Internationale de Chirurgie (ISS/SIC).
The key to improving function of an impaired limb after unilateral brain injury is promotion of corticospinal tract (CST) sprouting across the midline into the denervated hemicord. Previous studies have unveiled specific genes that regulate CST sprouting. CST sprouting may also be regulated by RNA modification. We examined METTL5, the methyltransferase for 18S rRNA m6A modification, as a regulator of CST sprouting in mice. Overexpression of METTL5 in contralesional corticospinal neurons promoted CST sprouting after unilateral traumatic brain injury. Mechanically, METTL5-mediated 18S rRNA m6A modification promoted the translation efficiency (TE) of various genes. Notably, the upregulation of TE in the gene Cfl1, which encodes cofilin, led to an increase in its expression. Additionally, the upregulation of TE in the gene Inpp5k led to the activation of cofilin. Active cofilin stimulates actin polymerization and facilitates protrusion and bundling of microtubules, thus promoting axon outgrowth. These findings offer valuable insights for developing novel strategies to promote CST sprouting.Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Biallelic pathogenic variants in INPP5K have been associated with a rare congenital muscular dystrophy that presents with muscle weakness, short stature, intellectual disability, and early-onset cataracts. A characteristic pattern of muscle involvement has been identified on muscle MRI in a small case series, including involvement of the vasti, anterior tibialis, and peronei with relative sparing of the rectus femoris, sartorius, and gracilis muscles. This case describes a patient who initially presented in infancy with hypotonia, motor delays, and short stature. She was eventually diagnosed at almost 3 years with INPP5K-related muscular dystrophy after extensive workup that included multiple subspecialist evaluations, genetic testing for non-neuromuscular disorders, and a muscle biopsy. Muscle ultrasound (MUS) was performed at the end of this diagnostic journey, which demonstrated characteristic features that supported the diagnosis, including notable involvement of the vasti muscles with sparing of the rectus femoris. This case highlights how MUS can be a useful tool in the evaluation of children for neuromuscular disorders. MUS can help refine the differential and guide further steps in evaluation when performed early in the diagnostic process and may help clarify interpretation of genetic testing results when performed later.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 39023925
Inositol polyphosphate 5-phosphatase K (INPP5K), also known as SKIP (skeletal muscle and kidney-enriched inositol phosphatase), is a cytoplasmic enzyme with 5-phosphatase activity toward phosphoinositides (PIs). Mutations in INPP5K are associated with autosomal recessive congenital muscular dystrophy with cataracts and intellectual disability (MDCCAID). Notably, muscular dystrophy is characterized by the hypoglycosylation of dystroglycan. Thus, far, the underlying mechanisms are only partially understood. In this study, we show that INPP5K expression increases during brain development. Knockdown of INPP5K in the neuroblastoma-derived cell line N2A impaired their neuronal-like differentiation and interfered with protein glycosylation.Copyright © 2024 Manzolillo, Gresing, Hübner and Franzka.
DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) are highly cytotoxic lesions repaired primarily by homologous recombination (HR) and non-homologous end joining (NHEJ), with alternative end joining (alt-EJ) and single-strand annealing (SSA) functioning as backup. Repair pathway choice is governed by DNA end resection, suppressing NHEJ and committing repair to homology-based processes. Using pharmacological inhibition and protein depletion approaches in irradiated human cells, we show that PLK1 alone controls resection in S-phase-irradiated cells, while PLK1 and PLK3 act redundantly in G2-phase-irradiated cells. This cell-cycle-dependent regulation operates through a mechanism distinct from SCFSKP2-APC/CCDH1-mediated CtIP level modulation. These findings establish PLK1 and PLK3 as cell-cycle-dependent regulators of DSB repair pathway choice, advancing our understanding of how cell-cycle progression is coupled to repair decisions through differential PLK activity.© 2026 The Author(s).
Polo-like kinases (PLKs) are a family of closely related serine/threonine kinases responsible for regulating cell cycle processes and proliferation. While PLK1 inhibitors have led to clinical candidates for oncology, the biological function of other PLKs is relatively unknown, in part, because there is a dearth of selective tool compounds. Herein we report the parallel medicinal chemistry (PMC) and structure-assisted discovery of potent and selective PLK3 inhibitors with favorable drug-like properties. We employed computational tools to reveal subtly different pharmacophore features within homologous binding sites of PLKs. These preferences were then exploited via a PMC approach starting from in-house high-throughput screening hits, resulting in selective chemical probes that help elucidate the complexities of PLK biology. Further, by profiling compounds with a spectrum of PLK selectivities, our work demonstrates the relationship between inhibition of specific PLK isoforms and resulting toxicities.© 2026 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
Invasive mechanical ventilation (IMV) is a critical intervention for severe respiratory failure and has been widely used in the clinical management of COVID-19 patients. The relationship between such microbiota changes and the host transcriptome in IMV patients remains poorly documented.We prospectively enrolled 69 critically ill COVID-19 patients, among whom 41 received IMV. Correlation analyses were conducted to investigate the relationship between the lung microbiome and host immune status in IMV COVID-19 patients.Compared to the Non-mechanical ventilation (NMV) group, patients in the IMV group exhibited significantly reduced alpha diversity, while no significant difference was observed in beta diversity. The abundance of Streptococcus genus was significantly higher in the NMV group, primarily dominated by Streptococcus oralis and Streptococcus mitis. Transcriptomic enrichment analysis revealed significant upregulation of inflammation-related pathways in the IMV group, including "positive regulation of inflammatory response" and "cellular response to interleukin-1". The decreased relative abundance of Streptococcus genus in the IMV group showed significant correlations with upregulation of genes including CXCL8, PLAU, SELENOK, SDC4, RPL17, RPS23, TOMM7, and PLK3. These upregulated genes promoted the recruitment of immune cells to inflammatory sites through activation of pathways including chemotaxis, leukocyte migration, and leukocyte cell-cell adhesion, ultimately triggering a robust innate immune response.IMV COVID-19 ARDS patients demonstrated significantly reduced pulmonary microbial diversity, with a marked decrease in the abundance of Streptococcus-primarily Streptococcus oralis and Streptococcus mitis. Transcriptomic profiling further revealed substantial upregulation of inflammatory pathways in IMV patients, including "positive regulation of inflammatory response".© 2026 Li et al.
Vitamin D is one of the most popular supplements worldwide, yet its appropriate dosage and full impact on health of humans and animals are still debatable. In this study, 30 pigs were divided into three groups, differing in the amount of vitamin D in the diet (Group A - no supplementation, group B-5000 IU/Kg of vitamin D, and group C 10000 IU/Kg). After 3 months of fattening, animals were slaughtered, and samples of jejunum (the longest part of the small intestine in pigs) and colon were collected for transcriptome analysis. Comparison of the transcriptomes between jejunum and colon identified 3872 Differentially Expressed Genes (DEGs). In contrast, transcriptomic changes under the influence of vitamin D were subtle in both parts of the intestine. RNA-seq results showed that vitamin D supplementation with 5000 IU/Kg enhanced the expression of 7 genes in the jejunum and one gene (MEP1B) in the colon (FDR < 0.05, base mean > 10, and log2fold change>0.6), while supplementation with 10,000 IU/Kg increased the expression of one gene (OASL) in the jejunum. No DEGs with FDR < 0.05 were identified after supplementation with 10,000 IU/kg of vitamin D in the colon, however qPCR analysis showed that genes connected to cell cycle control (PLK1, PLK3, KIF4A, KIFC1, AURKB) are upregulated in this group. Gene Set enrichment analysis of the whole RNA-seq dataset revealed that among the most affected by vitamin D processes are that connected to immunity, especially antiviral response in the jejunum, and that connected to cell cycle control in the colon. Despite the use of very high dietary vitamin D doses, no evidence of overt intestinal toxicity was observed at the transcriptomic level. Nevertheless, the activation of molecular pathways involved in calcium handling and cell cycle regulation suggests that prolonged exposure to supraphysiological vitamin D levels may trigger adaptive responses whose long-term consequences remain unknown.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Polo-like Kinase 1 (PLK1) plays essential roles in the S, G2, and M phases of the cell cycle, and its overexpression is frequently observed in multiple cancers, including breast cancer, where it contributes to genomic instability and dysregulated apoptosis. Unlike conventional ATP-competitive inhibitors that target the kinase domain, selective inhibition of PLK1's polo-box domain (PBD) offers a promising strategy to disrupt protein-ligand interactions critical for mitotic progression, thereby triggering apoptosis in cancer cells. However, the high structural similarity between PLK1 and its homologs (PLK2 and PLK3), which are vital for neurological function and the stress response, respectively, necessitates exceptional selectivity to avoid off-target effects. To address this challenge, the protocol entails a bilingual (American Sign Language and English) computational workflow that integrates virtual screening, structural clustering, protein-ligand docking, binding affinity prediction, ADMET-S profiling, and quantum mechanical (QM) stability analysis. Starting from the SuperNatural 3.0 natural product database, compounds were filtered using breast cancer relevance and drug-likeness criteria, clustered to ensure chemical diversity, and evaluated their interactions with PLK1-, PLK2-, and PLK3-PBD structures. While virtual docking and in silico ADMET-S assessments cannot definitively confirm selectivity or mechanism of action, this study generates testable hypotheses and prioritizes a focused set of natural-product-derived candidates for future molecular dynamics simulations, biochemical validation, or experimental screening.
Older maternal age at first vaginal delivery, defined in some studies as ≥30 years old, confers a substantial increased risk of pelvic organ prolapse. Age-related impairment of postpartum recovery of levator ani muscles may help explain this association; yet, little is known about the biomolecular changes that occur in the levator ani after vaginal delivery, or with aging.To evaluate the transcriptional signature of the levator ani immediately after vaginal delivery and 6 to 8 weeks postpartum among young primiparas (18-25 years) and older primiparas (≥35 years).This study is a prospective study in which nulliparous women were recruited in the third trimester of pregnancy. Levator ani muscle biopsies were obtained immediately after vaginal delivery and at 6 to 8 weeks postpartum. Clinical measures of pelvic floor support and levator ani muscle function were obtained at the 6 to 8-week postpartum visit. Biopsies were analyzed using RNA sequencing methods and differentially expressed genes were compared with those reported in prior studies of pelvic organ prolapse patients. We used a moderated t test (false discovery rate <5%) to identify differentially expressed genes associated with postpartum delivery, maternal age, and the interaction between the 2. Principal component analysis confirmed segregation of clinical phenotype variables based on gene expression.Eight women (3 young and 5 older) underwent levator ani biopsies at both time points and had sufficient tissue for analyses. A total of 58 differentially expressed genes were identified when evaluating the interaction of age and recovery interval, including TP53BP1 (upregulated), PRR12 (upregulated), ZNF316 (upregulated), and PLK3 (downregulated). Between age groups, 309 differentially expressed genes were identified, while 159 were identified between time points. Both age groups were enriched for core tissue repair and homeostatic programs. Twenty of the differentially expressed genes identified in the separate analyses of age and time were previously identified in 4 case-control studies of pelvic organ prolapse. The correlation between the transcriptomic signature (principal component 3) and the overall clinical phenotype profile (principal component 1) was significant (ρ=0.88, false discovery rate <0.05), while the correlation observed with maternal age alone was not (ρ=-0.72).In agreement with clinical evidence, the effects of maternal age on levator ani muscle recovery can be seen at the transcriptional level. Age and recovery time share similar biological processes that, when disrupted, may predispose the levator ani to altered recovery and long-term susceptibility to pelvic organ prolapse. Specifically, elevated TP53BP1 combined with reduced PLK3 suggests a pattern of disrupted p53-regulated checkpoint and elevated cellular senescence which would impair healing. Results from the principal component analysis indicate that the transcriptomic signature captures clinical features beyond chronological age alone. Together, this study suggests a mechanistic pathway whereby aged levator ani may be at an increased risk of further dysfunction and disease and opens the possibility of targeted therapies to prevent pelvic organ prolapse.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Polo-like kinase 3 (PLK3) plays major roles in cell cycle regulation, DNA repair, and cellular responses to hypoxia. Our prior studies demonstrated that PLK3 negatively regulates the hypoxic response by directly phosphorylating and destabilizing HIF-1α and by destabilizing the E3 ubiquitin ligase SIAH2. We also find that PLK3 stabilizes PTEN by direct phosphorylation. Plk3 knockout mice exhibit increased spontaneous tumorigenesis in multiple organs, particularly the lung, at an advanced age. Tumors from these mice tend to be highly vascularized, consistent with the function of PLK3 in the hypoxic response. However, another study only observed increased tumorigenesis in female Plk3 knockout mice. The present study further explored the role of PLK3 in lung tumorigenesis. We find that PLK3 can phosphorylate SIAH2 in vitro, confirming our hypothesis that PLK3 regulates SIAH2 by direct phosphorylation. We detected a negative correlation between the levels of PLK3 and SIAH2 and a positive correlation between HIF-1α and SIAH2 in both human lung adenocarcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma. We observed an increase in lung tumorigenesis in Plk3 knockout mice in the A/J strain background. Our RNA-Seq analysis revealed significantly increased expression of genes involved in oncogenic pathways and the immune response in lung tumors from Plk3 knockout mice. Finally, we find that induced systemic SIAH2 expression promotes CD8 T cell infiltration into subcutaneous tumors in a syngeneic mouse model. Our work further supports the tumor suppressive role of PLK3 in lung cancer and discovered a novel involvement of PLK3 in the regulation of the immune microenvironment of lung tumors.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Small molecule anti-cancer drugs can cause adverse effects; most commonly low blood cell counts. Protein kinase D2 (PKD2) is highly expressed in neutrophils, and this study investigated the role of PKD2 inhibition on the survival of human neutrophils using small molecule compounds.The kinase inhibition profiles of two Polo like kinase 1 (PLK1) inhibitors, TAK-960 derivative and Compound A were evaluated using 265 kinase enzyme assays. HL60 cells were differentiated into neutrophil-like cells, followed by siRNA-mediated knockdown of PKD2, and cell viability was assessed. Compounds were tested for their effects on cell viability in differentiated HL60 cells and human neutrophils isolated from healthy donors. Furthermore, correlation between PKD2 inhibition and peripheral white blood cell counts was assessed for 23 difluoropyrimido-diazepinone compounds in nude mice bearing HT-29 human colon cancer cell xenografts.PKD2 knockdown resulted in reduced cell viability in differentiated HL60 cells. Compound A, which selectively inhibits PKD2, significantly reduced the viability of differentiated HL60 cells and human neutrophils, to a greater extent than TAK-960. In contrast, suppression of PLK3, which is also highly expressed in neutrophils, did not affect cell viability, indicating that PKD2 is critical for neutrophil survival. Moreover, a significant positive correlation was observed between PKD2 inhibition and white blood cell counts in nude mice (Pearson's correlation, r=0.75, p=0.009).PKD2 plays a crucial role in human neutrophil survival. Minimizing PKD2 inhibition during small-molecule drug design could be essential to reduce the risk of neutropenia in patients under anti-cancer treatment.Copyright © 2026 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
The intrinsic properties of black phosphorus (BP) nanomaterials (NMs) enable them for targeted binding to polo-like kinase 1 (PLK1), thus inhibiting its kinase activity. However, the mechanism and targeted binding sites underlying this interaction remain unclear. To elucidate the critical properties of PLK1 that facilitate its interaction with BPNMs, the binding ability of BPNMs was compared across PLK family proteins. Although BPNMs exhibited a weak binding affinity for PLK3, PLK1 demonstrated the most favorable physicochemical properties for its binding. Factors as surface charge, hydrophobicity, secondary and three-dimensional structures significantly affected the interaction of PLK family proteins to BPNMs. The binding affinity was primarily determined by amino acid residues at the binding interface, where arginine and proline played critical roles in mediating the interaction of BPNMs-PLK1. BPNMs inhibited PLK1 activation by binding to key residues of the kinase domain, including S49, Y203, D204, E206, and R207. In conclusion, this study elucidates the molecular basis of the specific interaction between BPNMs and PLK1, highlighting the pivotal role of the amino acid residues in NM-protein binding. This work demonstrates that NM-protein interactions are a mutual selection and driven by the physicochemical properties of both proteins and NMs.© 2025 The Author(s). Exploration published by Henan University and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Glioma is the most common malignant tumor of the central nervous system, and homologous recombination deficiency (HRD) may play a crucial role in its progression. Our study aimed to predict the impact of HRD on glioma heterogeneity and patient prognosis from a multi-omics perspective.We integrated HRD-related gene expression levels and survival information from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Chinese Glioma Genome Atlas (CGGA) databases. Using a combination of machine learning algorithms, we identified the optimal algorithm and constructed the HRD Index model. After validating the model's accuracy, we assessed the expression heterogeneity of HRD-related genes in vitro using quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR). Multiple omics analyses, including enrichment analysis, genomics, prediction of immune cell subtype infiltration, and drug sensitivity, were employed to demonstrate the heterogeneity and clinical predictive significance of the HRD Index in glioma.Through algorithm selection, the LASSO-RSF (Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator - Random Survival Forest) algorithm identified 7 genes (POLR2F, FANCB, PTEN, PLK3, INO80D, PRMT6, and UNG) to construct the HRD Index. Model validation demonstrated excellent accuracy. qPCR results revealed differential expression of these HRD Index genes among different cell lines. Samples grouped by HRD Index showed potential differences in certain cytokine and receptor pathways, as well as varying gene mutation frequencies between groups. Drug sensitivity analysis indicated that the HRD Index could predict treatment efficacy for specific drugs.Our HRD Index model based on these seven genes significantly correlated with clinical prognosis in glioma patients and holds promise for guiding clinical management.Copyright: © 2025 Wu et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is a leading cause of irreversible blindness in working-age populations and frequently cooccurs with multiple ocular disorders. As their shared genetic basis remains poorly understood, this study aimed to elucidate the shared genetic architecture underlying RP and relevant ocular comorbidities.Using large-scale genome-wide association data, we systematically investigated pleiotropy, genetic correlation, cell-type specificity, and genetically predicted causality between RP and major ophthalmic comorbidities.We observed significant genetic correlations and pleiotropic enrichment between RP and retinal detachments and breaks (RDAB), retinal vascular occlusion (RVO), and age-related macular degeneration (AMD), with notable SNP-level overlap between RP and primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). RP and RDAB, as well as AMD, shared genetic associations at chr1:196176201-197311241 and chr10:123900764-125869042. Totally, 41, 25, 114, and 397 pleiotropic loci were identified between RP and RDAB, RVO, POAG, and AMD, implicating pathways related to cell division, metabolic regulation, immune activation, and complement activation. A novel causal variant (rs36212731) and four pleiotropic genes (ARMS2, HTRA1, CFH, PLEKHA1) were discovered between RP and RDAB. Ten causal variants and 24 pleiotropic genes were identified between RP and AMD. MR analyses demonstrated a genetically causal effect of RP on an increased risk of RDAB and RVO (P˂0.05), and AMD was associated with an increased risk of RP. Cell-type enrichment analyses highlighted vascular smooth muscle cells and retinal pigment epithelium as key mediators of shared susceptibility between RP and RDAB, and POAG.This study reveals robust genetic and potential causal links between RP and RDAB, RVO, as well as AMD, along with complex pleiotropic associations with glaucoma. These findings provide novel genetic insights into the shared pathogenic mechanisms and generate hypotheses for future biological, translational, and clinical research.
Splicing disruption has been implicated in a range of heritable phenotypes, including numerous psychiatric and neurological disorders. Recent studies have identified thousands of common genetic variants impacting splicing in brain and other tissues, but have focused largely on single nucleotide polymorphisms or short indels. Despite growing evidence that genetic variation at short tandem repeats (STRs) influences splicing, large-scale studies of STR-mediated splicing in brain have been limited by low sample sizes of available RNA-seq data or exclusion of certain classes of STRs, such as homopolymers which account for around half of all STRs. In this study, we leveraged deep RNA-seq and SNP array data from 336 human dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) samples collected by the Human Brain Collection Core (HBCC). We imputed 445,720 STRs into available genotype data and identified 51,343 unique STRs for which copy number is significantly associated with one or multiple alternative splicing events of nearby genes (spliceSTRs). We prioritized and characterized candidate causal spliceSTRs using three orthogonal fine-mapping strategies which identified 1,313 high-confidence fine-mapped spliceSTRs. Our analyses revealed strong associations between copy number of certain repeat units and binding of specific RNA-binding proteins (RBPs), including a previously known relationship between HNRNPL and AC repeat length, suggesting that the functional impact of some spliceSTRs may be mediated through their binding affinity for RBPs. Finally, co-localization analyses using summary statistics from genome-wide association studies (GWAS) for 6 brain-related disorders identified multiple signals that may be driven by spliceSTRs, including a previously identified GT n repeat that is a spliceSTR for PLEKHA1 associated with Alzheimer's disease as well as a newly identified AGG n spliceSTR in SEPTIN3 co-localized with schizophrenia. Together, our findings highlight the role of STRs in regulating alternative splicing in the human brain, suggest a general relationship between STR polymorphism and RBP-mediated splicing events, and support the hypothesis that splicing variation mediated by STRs plays a role in risk for brain-related disorders.
This study investigated molecular drivers of AD-associated peripheral immune dysregulation to identify pathogenic genes and therapeutic targets for precision diagnosis and intervention.A large-scale GWAS meta-analysis (n = 894,710) was performed, followed by two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) using multi-tissue cis-eQTL data to identify putative causal genes. Immune response differential genes (IRDGs) were defined from AD peripheral blood transcriptomes and the MSigDB database. A three-step summary-data-based MR framework integrating blood cis-eQTLs and cis-mQTLs was applied to prioritize causal genes and epigenetic regulatory elements. Findings were validated through colocalization analysis, PBMC scRNA-seq and blood-tissue TWAS. Multi-dimensional clinical validation was performed in the ADNI cohort encompassing gene expression, CSF biomarkers, cognitive measures, immune cell profiles, survival analysis, and plasma proteomics, with cross-cohort transcriptomic replication in AddNeuroMed.Two-sample MR identified eight putative AD pathogenic genes. The three-step SMR and colocalization analysis prioritized five candidate causal genes, whose differential expression in immunocytes was confirmed by scRNA-seq and independently replicated. In the ADNI cohort, PTK2B expression was elevated in AD (ANOVA P = 0.0023), inversely correlated with MMSE (r = -0.164, P = 0.017), and predictive of MCI-to-AD conversion (Cox HR = 1.741, P = 0.050), with independent replication in AddNeuroMed (FDR P = 3.56 × 10-4). PLEKHA1 and PTK2B expression were strongly associated with peripheral neutrophil and lymphocyte proportions (P < 10-7), and PLEKHA1 correlated with CSF total tau (partial r = 0.102, P = 0.036). The prioritized probe cg19863426 at the PLEKHA1 promoter showed progressive hypermethylation across the CN-MCI-AD continuum (F = 3.45, P = 0.032) and was inversely correlated with PLEKHA1 mRNA (r = -0.33, P = 2.68 × 10-¹²).Integrating GWAS, multi-omics Mendelian randomization, single-cell transcriptomics, transcriptome-wide association study, and clinical cohort validation, this study identified peripheral immune causal genes for AD whose blood transcriptomic and epigenetic signatures track with CSF pathology, cognitive decline, and disease progression, supporting their translational potential for early diagnosis and therapeutic development.Copyright © 2026 Lv, Kuang, Wang, Zhang, Liu, Wang, Yang, Ni, Sun and Sun.
Dysregulation of the peripheral immune system may increase Alzheimer's disease (AD) risk, but the underlying cell type-specific mechanisms remain unclear.We conducted Mendelian randomization and colocalization analyses of 4489 genes using single-cell expression quantitative trait locus data from unstimulated and stimulated peripheral immune cells, integrated with an AD genome-wide association study (N = 455,258). Spatial transcriptomics of brain tissue samples was used to identify brain-infiltrating immune cells.Thirteen genes were associated with AD risk. Expression of BIN1, CTSW, CTSH, HLA-DRB1, TSTD1, PLEKHA1, and SCIMP increased AD risk, while EPHA1-AS1, FCER1G, FIBP, KAT8, STX4, and HLA-DQA1 reduced it. These associations were peripheral immune cell type and state specific. PLEKHA1 and TSTD1 were upregulated and FIBP downregulated in natural killer and T cells in AD brain tissue.These findings link immune cell-specific gene expression to AD risk across activation states and within brain-infiltrating immune cells, highlighting potential targets for immune-based AD prevention and treatment.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a progressive interstitial lung disease in which endothelial cell senescence (ECS) plays a key role. By integrating two GEO transcriptome datasets (145 IPF patients and 84 controls) and applying LASSO, SVM-RFE, and Boruta algorithms, four key ECS-related genes (ECSRGs), MYCT1, PLEKHA1, PCDH12, and PLXND1, were identified. MYCT1 and PLEKHA1 were downregulated by about 26% and 75%, while PCDH12 and PLXND1 were upregulated by 2.4- and 1.9-fold (p < 0.0001). The four-gene nomogram achieved 93.6% diagnostic accuracy. In TGF-β1-induced HUVECs, silencing MYCT1 or PLEKHA1 increased senescent cells by ~1.4-fold, whereas silencing PCDH12 or PLXND1 reduced α-SMA and COL1A1 levels by ~40%. In bleomycin-induced mice, valproic acid (VPA) lowered collagen deposition by ~60% and normalized gene expression. MYCT1 and PLEKHA1 act as anti-senescence factors, while PCDH12 and PLXND1 act as pro-fibrotic drivers. The four-gene model shows strong diagnostic potential, and VPA may serve as a therapeutic candidate targeting ECS in IPF.© 2025 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Interventions to prevent type 1 diabetes (T1D), an immune-mediated disease requiring lifelong treatment, remain limited. We sought to identify novel therapeutic targets for T1D through Mendelian randomization and colocalization using immune cell-derived instruments.We selected locally acting genetic variants from 14 transcriptomic studies to instrument expression of 8998 genes measured in immune cell types. Outcome associations were obtained from a T1D genome-wide association study that included 18,942 cases and 501,638 controls. Follow-up analyses included assessments of horizontal pleiotropy and novelty, as well as phenome-wide scans with colocalization (PheWAS-coloc) of instrumental variants.We prioritized 21 genes (CLNK, EED, LZTFL1, MGAT4A, NAA38, NFKB1, PHACTR4, PHLPP2, PLEKHA1, P2RY12, REST, RGS14, SERPINB6, SESN3, SLC25A29, SPAG1, STIM2, THEMIS, TMEM80, VSIR, ZNF217) that have not been identified in previous T1D genome-wide association studies. Notably, higher genetically predicted VSIR (encoding the immune checkpoint protein VISTA) was associated with decreased risk of T1D, providing human genetic support that complements existing animal-model evidence for VISTA's protective role in autoimmune diseases. We also prioritized P2RY12, which is targeted by several approved drugs, revealing a possible repurposing opportunity. PheWAS-coloc analyses further linked P2RY12 expression to Epstein-Barr virus EBNA-1 antibody levels, implicating a pathway relevant to autoimmunity.Our findings provide novel avenues for drug development and repurposing to prevent or delay T1D onset.© 2025. The Author(s).
The aim of this study was to determine the association of immune response and lipid metabolism genes with the development of pre-eclampsia and related acute cerebral circulatory disorders in Kazakh women.Minor allele frequencies of immune response and lipid metabolism genes were determined in 1,800 healthy participants stored in the Miras Biobank of the Scientific Centre of Obstetrics, Gynaecology, and Perinatology Joint Stock Company.The main results of the study showed that TLR4 (rs4986790), PLEKHA1 (rs2281673), PLEKHG1 (rs9478812), APOE (rs7412), FTO (rs1421085) and LPL (rs285) genes were in genetic equilibrium (p > 0.05), indicating that the sample was representative and there were no significant evolutionary pressures on the studied genes. The frequencies of minor alleles in the studied sample of Kazakhs were: TLR4 - 3.3%, PLEKHA1 - 5.9%, PLEKHG1 - 27.0%, APOE - 7.8%, FTO - 28.3% and LPL - 36.0%.The obtained data can be used for further genetic studies, as well as for the development of individualised strategies for the prevention and treatment of pre-eclampsia and related complications. The identified genetic markers may help in early detection of women at increased risk of developing these conditions, which will contribute to improving clinical outcomes and reducing maternal and perinatal mortality.© 2025 Dinara Mirzakhmetova et al., published by Institute of Mother and Child.
Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related death worldwide, and the complex molecular mechanisms underlying its development, particularly the role of alternative splicing (AS) in different subtypes, remain poorly understood. In this study, we performed RNA sequencing of 178 lung cancer patients and conducted a comprehensive analysis of the transcriptomic landscape with a focus on AS. We identified robust lung cancer- and subtype-specific AS biomarkers that were consistently effective in both tissue samples and cancer cell lines. Notably, several of these biomarkers also serve as critical regulators in lung cancer progression. Our regulatory network analysis, with a focus on RNA-binding proteins, revealed QKI and SR proteins as key splicing factors. Specifically, QKI was found to modulate the splicing of PLEKHA1 exon 15, a cancer-specific AS biomarker, while SRSF1 regulated the splicing of MKNK2 exon 14, a subtype-specific AS biomarker. Our study provides valuable insights into key AS events and their regulatory mechanisms in lung cancer, paving the way for potential therapeutic targets.© 2025 The Author(s).
Deficiency of IL-36 Receptor Antagonist (DITRA) is a rare monogenic autoinflammatory disease, characterized by dysregulation of IL-36 signaling and phenotypically classified as a subtype of generalized pustular psoriasis.This study aimed to explore the role of potentially coding and non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) in the IL36RN interactome to identify putative pathogenic mechanisms, biomarkers, and therapeutic targets for DITRA.A systems biology approach was applied using the STRING database to construct the IL36RN protein-protein interaction network. Key ncRNA interactions were identified using RNAInter. The networks were visualized and analyzed with Cytoscape v3 and the CytoHubba plugin to identify central nodes and interaction hubs. Pathway enrichment analysis was then performed to determine the biological relevance of candidate ncRNAs and genes.Analysis identified thirty-eight ncRNAs interacting with the IL36RN network, including six lncRNAs and thirty-two miRNAs. Of these, thirty-three were associated with key DITRA-related signaling pathways, while five remain to be validated. Additionally, seven protein-coding genes were highlighted, with three (TINCR, PLEKHA1, and HNF4A) directly implicated in biological pathways related to DITRA. Many of the identified ncRNAs have prior associations with immune-mediated diseases, including psoriasis, supporting their potential relevance in DITRA pathogenesis.This study provides novel insights into the ncRNA-mediated regulation of IL36RN and its network in the context of DITRA. The findings support the potential utility of specific ncRNAs and genes, such as TINCR, PLEKHA1, and HNF4A, as key genomic elements warrant further functional characterization to confirm their mechanistic roles and may inform biomarker discovery and targeted therapeutic development in DITRA.
Despite advancements of diagnosis and multimodality therapies in esophageal squamous-cell carcinoma (ESCC), the survival is still unsatisfactory. Therefore, it is urgent to identify novel targets for efficient therapeutic strategies. Herein, we identify a fusion gene between PLEKHA1 and TACC2 generated by chromosomal rearrangement by performing RNA sequencing from ESCC tissues. PLEKHA1-TACC2 transcripts are present in ESCC (66/404, 16.3%) and head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (58/402, 14.4%) tissues, correlated with poor prognosis of patients. Mechanistically, the fusion proteins upregulate the EphA2/AKT/MMP2 signaling pathway and promote vascular mimicry formation by reducing the ubiquitylation of EphA2. Moreover, EphA2 inhibitors dasatinib and ALW II-41-27 remarkably suppress the progression of tumors expressing PLEKHA1-TACC2 in vivo. Functionally, PLEKHA1-TACC2 fusion and Trp53 deletion significantly increases tumor incidence, tumor multiplicity, and mouse mortality in transgenic ESCC mouse model, which could be suppressed by regorafenib, a EphA2 inhibitor approved by FDA in solid tumors. Together, our data indicate that PLEKHA1-TACC2 fusion protein has oncogenic activities and serves as a promising prognosis marker and therapeutic target.© 2025. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42567394 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42543141 is a review article
Lnk is an adaptor protein that attenuates cytokine receptor signaling in hematopoietic and immune cells, but its role in the behavior of CD8+ T cells within solid tumors is not well defined. Using a murine melanoma model, we compared tumor growth and immune infiltration in Lnk-deficient mice and in wild-type controls and evaluated CD8+ T cell trafficking toward chemokine signals produced by melanoma cells. Lnk-deficient mice developed smaller tumors containing greater numbers of intratumoral CD8+ cytotoxic T cells. Tumor chemokine profiles, including high levels of interleukin-8 family signals such as CXCL2, were comparable between groups, yet CD8+ T cells lacking Lnk showed enhanced migration toward melanoma-derived cues ex vivo and accumulated more effectively within tumors in vivo. Pharmacologic inhibition of CXCR1/2 abolished this migratory advantage. Upon stimulation with interleukin-8 family chemokines, Lnk-deficient CD8+ T cells exhibited increased activation of STAT3 and ERK signaling pathways. Moreover, antisense-mediated downregulation of Lnk in wild-type T cells resulted in enhanced accumulation within melanoma tumors following adoptive transfer into wild-type hosts. These findings identify Lnk as a negative regulator of CXCR1/2-dependent trafficking of CD8+ T cells in melanoma and suggest that modulating this intracellular checkpoint may improve T cell trafficking into solid tumors and enhance the effectiveness of adoptive cellular immunotherapies.© 2026 The Authors.
Alopecia areata (AA) is an autoimmune disorder characterized by oxidative stress-induced dysfunction of hair follicle stem cells (HFSCs). Nicotinamide mononucleotide (NMN), a precursor of NAD+, exhibits antioxidant properties, but its role and mechanism in AA remain unclear. This study aimed to investigate the therapeutic potential of NMN and its underlying mechanism. Scalp tissues from AA patients and healthy controls were collected, and HFSCs were isolated. An in vitro oxidative stress model was established using H2O2. Cell viability, apoptosis, migration, oxidative stress and glutamine metabolism were assessed. Molecular mechanisms were investigated via gene knockdown (sh-SIRT7, sh-GLS1) and rescue experiments with an acetylation-resistant GLS1 mutant (GLS1-MUT). An in vivo mouse model of H2O2-induced hair follicle damage was utilized for validation. The results showed that NMN (2 mM) significantly enhanced the viability, migration, and differentiation capacity of both AA-derived and H2O2-induced HFSCs, while cell apoptosis and oxidative stress were repressed. NMN also promoted glutamine metabolism with increased GSH, glutamate, glutamine and NAD+ levels, as well as elevated GPx and GLS1 activities. Mechanistically, SIRT7 expression was downregulated in AA. NMN restored SIRT7 expression and activity, leading to the deacetylation and activation of GLS1. Knockdown of SIRT7 or GLS1 abolished NMN's protective effects, which were rescued by GLS1-MUT, establishing a linear pathway. In vivo, NMN treatment alleviated H2O2-induced hair follicle damage, promoted regeneration, and preserved SIRT7 expression in the stem cell niche. In conclusion, NMN alleviates oxidative stress and improves HFSC function in AA by activating the SIRT7-GLS1 axis and enhancing glutamine metabolism, revealing a novel therapeutic target for AA.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42502934 is a review article
Acute leukemias of ambiguous lineage, not otherwise specified (ALAL, NOS), represent a rare but clinically significant subset of leukemias characterized by immunophenotypic heterogeneity and an absence of lineage-defining markers.We report a diagnostically challenging case of ALAL, NOS, in a 59-year-old man who presented with constitutional symptoms and was found to have marked leukocytosis, anemia, thrombocytopenia, and 96% circulating blasts.Flow cytometry revealed expression of progenitor markers (CD34, HLA-DR, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase) with weak and variable expression of B-cell (CD19, CD22), T-cell (CD5, CD7), and myeloid (CD13, CD33) markers. Immunohistochemistry confirmed CD79a expression but lacked the lineage-defining markers myeloperoxidase, CD3, strong CD19, and PAX5.Cytogenetic and molecular testing revealed a constitutional Robertsonian 13;14 translocation and SH2B3 mutations without diagnostic alterations characteristic of acute myeloid leukemia or acute lymphoblastic lymphoma. The case met diagnostic criteria for ALAL, NOS, per the 2022 International Consensus Classification and World Health Organization 5th edition classifications. Treatment was initiated with hyperfractionated cyclophosphamide, vincristine, adriamycin, and dexamethasone chemotherapy, and the patient ultimately achieved minimal residual disease negativity. The patient subsequently underwent allogeneic stem cell transplantation approximately 7 months after diagnosis.This case underscores the diagnostic challenges and therapeutic considerations in managing ALAL, NOS.© The Author(s) (2026). Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American Society for Clinical Pathology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a prevalent malignancy with a complex genetic basis. Recent genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified a susceptibility locus at 3p21.31, however, the functional SNP(s) underlying the association between the 3p21.31 region and CRC remain to be elucidated. In this study, we identified rs2101247 as the potential functional SNP and further demonstrated that rs2101247 is significantly associated with the expression of the nearby long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) RP11-708J19.2 (ENSG00000271161.1). Functional experiments showed that RP11-708J19.2 is upregulated in CRC tumor tissues, and its knockdown reduces cell viability while promoting apoptosis in SW1116 and HCT116 cell lines. Mechanistically, RP11-708J19.2 interacts directly with the deacetylase SIRT7, modulating histone H3K18 acetylation (H3K18ac). Specifically, RP11-708J19.2 knockdown leads to a significant upregulation of H3K18ac levels, implicating a SIRT7-mediated epigenetic pathway in CRC progression. Our findings elucidate a novel functional SNP-lncRNA axis that contributes to CRC pathogenesis, providing potential biomarkers for early detection and therapeutic targets for intervention.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42488706 is a review article
Myocardial ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury is a complex condition characterized by oxidative stress, inflammation, and mitochondrial dysfunction. Ferroptosis, an iron-dependent form of regulated cell death, plays a critical role in cardiomyocyte damage during I/R. Inhibiting ferroptosis has been shown to reduce myocardial injury and improve cardiac function, making it a promising therapeutic target for enhancing clinical outcomes. An in vivo I/R model was established, and infarct size was assessed using triphenyltetrazolium chloride (TTC) staining. Histological changes were analyzed using hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining, Masson, immunohistochemistry (IHC), and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) assays. Cellular experiments included analyses of reactive oxygen species (ROS), lipid peroxidation, and iron content using specific fluorescent probes, as well as enzymatic markers measured with commercial assay kits. Cell viability and senescence were evaluated using the Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) assay and senescence-associated β-galactosidase (SA-β-gal) staining, respectively. Mitochondrial ultrastructure was examined using transmission electron microscopy (TEM), while molecular mechanisms, including DNA methylation, were investigated using methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction (MSP). Interactions among pleckstrin homology-like domain family A member 3 (PHLDA3), DNA (cytosine-5)-methyltransferase 3 A (DNMT3a), and polypyrimidine tract binding protein 1 (PTBP1) were evaluated using chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and RNA pull-down assays. Silencing of PHLDA3 demonstrated protective effects against I/R injury by attenuating cardiomyocyte ferroptosis and cardiac microvascular endothelial cells (CMECs) senescence under hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R) conditions in vitro and I/R injury in vivo. Mechanistically, downregulated DNMT3a was responsible for PHLDA3 hypomethylation. Furthermore, PTBP1 was identified as an upstream RNA-binding protein that destabilized DNMT3a mRNA during H/R injury, indirectly enhancing PHLDA3 expression. Our findings suggest that PTBP1-mediated DNMT3a downregulation contributes to PHLDA3 hypomethylation, which may promote cardiomyocyte ferroptosis and subsequent microvascular endothelial cell senescence during I/R injury.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Protein succinylation, an emerging post-translational modification (PTM), assumes a crucial role in the initiation and advancement of inflammatory diseases. Ferroptosis, propelled by lethal lipid peroxidation, is intricately associated with the pathogenesis of inflammation. Targeting ferroptosis has recently emerged as a promising therapeutic approach for acute lung injury (ALI). Nevertheless, the crosstalk between protein succinylation and ferroptosis in the regulation of ALI remains ambiguous. FOXO4, a key regulator of oxidative stress responses, is dynamically regulated by various PTMs. We identify SIRT7 as the desuccinylase essential for FOXO4 activation and nuclear localization. Mechanistically, SIRT7 desuccinylates FOXO4 at lysine 139 (K139), thereby inhibiting MDM2-mediated K48-linked polyubiquitination, which stabilizes FOXO4 and maintains FOXO4 nuclear retention. This consequently upregulates glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) and suppresses lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced ferroptosis in alveolar epithelial cells (AECs). In vivo experiments demonstrated that SIRT7-knockout (SIRT7-KO) exacerbates LPS-induced ALI. Furthermore, the delivery of a FOXO4-K139R (mimicking desuccinylation) via adeno-associated virus 6 (AAV6) significantly alleviated pulmonary ferroptosis and histopathological damage in SIRT7-KO mice. Notably, pharmacological activation of SIRT7 with trilobatin (TLB) significantly attenuates ALI in LPS-challenged mice, establishing a potential therapeutic pathway for this pathology. Collectively, these findings delineate a previously unrecognized mechanism through which SIRT7 governs the nuclear retention and activation of FOXO4 via desuccinylation, establishing the SIRT7-FOXO4 axis as a potential therapeutic target and theoretical basis for ALI intervention.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The current evidence suggests that the formation of pulp stones (PS) has a genetic background. Therefore, the present study aimed to evaluate the association between PS in orthodontically treated patients and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the mineralization-related genes (bone morphogenetic protein 2 [BMP2], BMP4, SMAD6, and runt-related transcription factor 2 [RUNX2]).This cross-sectional study analyzed genomic DNA and panoramic radiographs from patients with a history of orthodontic treatment. Panoramic radiographs were analyzed and PS were identified as well- or poorly defined radiopaque opacities located within the pulp chamber of the maxillary and mandibular first and second permanent molars. Genomic DNA obtained from all participants was analyzed. The genetic analysis focused on seven specific SNPs located in genes involved in mineralization pathways: BMP2 (rs235768 and rs1005464), BMP4 (rs17563), SMAD6 (rs3934908 and rs2119261), and RUNX2 (rs59983488 and rs1200425). Comparisons of allele and genotype (codominant, dominant, and recessive models) distributions between patients with and without PS were performed using the chi-square test. Logistic regression analyses were performed to control for potential confounders such as age and sex for the SNPs located in the RUNX2 gene. One-way ANOVA was applied to evaluate differences in the mean number of teeth with PS across genotypes. The significance level was established at α = 0.05.The final sample comprised 235 patients: 120 presented with PS, and 115 served as controls. For the SNP rs59983488 in RUNX2, a statistical association was observed for genotype distribution in the dominant model (p = 0.033) and for allele distribution (p = 0.022). For the SNP rs1200425 in RUNX2, a statistical association was observed for genotype distribution in the recessive model (p = 0.046; odds ratio [OR] = 2.0, confidence interval [CI] 95% 1.0-3.8). No statistically significant association was observed in the logistic regression analysis.Our study suggests that RUNX2 could have a small effect on the susceptibility of orthodontic patients to develop PS.Copyright © 2026 Daniel Hemming et al. International Journal of Dentistry published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Zhigancao Decoction (ZGCT), also known as Fumai Decoction, is a classical traditional Chinese medicine formula recorded in Shanghan Lun and has long been used for the treatment of "palpitations" and "irregular pulse," corresponding to arrhythmias in modern medicine. Although ZGCT has shown beneficial effects against cardiac arrhythmias, its absorbed bioactive constituents and the underlying mechanisms involved in ischemic heart failure (IHF)-related ventricular arrhythmias (VAs) remain unclear.This study aimed to characterize the chemical profile of ZGCT and identify its circulating and cardiac constituents using ultra-performance liquid chromatography-quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry (UPLC-Q-TOF-MS), to identify key pathways through transcriptomic analysis, and evaluate the effects of ZGCT on IHF-related VAs in rats while exploring the potential involvement of myocardial fibrosis and TGF-β/Smad signaling.UPLC-Q-TOF-MS was employed to characterize the chemical constituents of ZGCT extract and to identify its absorbed components in rat serum and myocardial tissue after administration, thereby defining its in vivo bioactive basis. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq)-based transcriptomic profiling was then performed on myocardial tissues from the control, model, and ZGCT-treated groups to identify differentially expressed genes, followed by Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses to screen candidate signaling pathways underlying ZGCT activity. In addition, a rat model of IHF was established by permanent ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery. Rats were randomly assigned to the control, model, low-, medium-, and high-dose ZGCT, metoprolol, SB-431542(a selective TGF-β receptor type I inhibitor), and SB-431542 plus ZGCT groups. Cardiac function was evaluated by echocardiography; ventricular arrhythmia susceptibility, conduction velocity, and electrical conduction dispersion were assessed by burst pacing and multichannel electrical mapping; infarct size and myocardial fibrosis were determined by 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride (TTC), hematoxylin and eosin (H&E), and Masson's trichrome staining; and the expression of TGF-β1, phosphorylated Smad3 (p-Smad3), Smad7, and matrix metalloproteinase 2 (MMP2) was measured by Western blotting and RT-qPCR.UPLC-Q-TOF-MS identified 113 constituents in the ZGCT extract in vitro, of which 80 were detected in serum and 53 were distributed in myocardial tissue after administration. Transcriptomic analysis revealed that ZGCT predominantly regulated the extracellular matrix (ECM)-receptor interaction and TGF-β signaling pathways, with the TGF-β pathway emerging as a putative key target. In IHF rats, ZGCT significantly improved cardiac function and reduced both the incidence and duration of ventricular arrhythmias. Multichannel electrical mapping further demonstrated that ZGCT reversed IHF-induced slowing of conduction velocity and increased conduction dispersion. Mechanistically, ZGCT downregulated the expression of TGF-β1, p-Smad3, and MMP2, while upregulating Smad7. SB-431542 elicited anti-fibrotic and pathway-related molecular changes comparable to those of ZGCT, further supporting a role for TGF-β/Smad signaling in the anti-fibrotic effects of ZGCT.ZGCT reduced ventricular arrhythmia susceptibility and improved conduction abnormalities in IHF rats in association with attenuation of myocardial fibrosis and modulation of transforming growth factor-β/Smad-related signaling. However, these findings were obtained from a single batch of ZGCT, and further multi-batch validation is required to confirm its chemical consistency and pharmacological reproducibility.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Classic Hodgkin lymphoma (CHL) is a highly curable disease. However, a subset of patients develops relapsed/refractory disease, underscoring the need for predictors of treatment response. Although immune-checkpoint inhibitors have improved outcomes, many patients still experience suboptimal responses. A deeper understanding of the CHL transcriptomic landscape may improve patient stratification and guide treatment approaches. Targeted mRNA-NGS was performed on formalin-fixed paraffine-embedded CHL-tissue using the HTG EdgeSeq Precision Immune-Oncology Panel (1,392 genes) in treatment-naive and post-chemotherapy relapsed treated with nivolumab-based protocols. Differential gene expression and pathway enrichment analyses were conducted to characterize tumor-intrinsic, and microenvironmental features associated with disease biology and treatment response. Across all CHL samples (n = 25) we observed overexpression of immune-checkpoint and immunoregulatory genes (CD274, CTLA-4, IL6, IL13), and markers of macrophage-rich/matrix-remodeling microenvironment (CD163, MMP2, TIMP1), alongside loss of B-cell identity and tumor suppression programs. Pathways analysis revealed activation of IL6/JAK/STAT3, TNF-α/NF-κB, KRAS-UP, and Inflammatory response, with reduced proliferative and metabolic activity. Immunotherapy non-responders, both in the overall (n = 5; 20%), and the treatment-naïve CHL (n = 2; 12%) displayed a proliferative, cytokine-activated, and immunologically cold phenotype. This includes shared overexpression of FADD, NFKB1, and TGFB1 and downregulation of SMAD7, together with activation of E2F, G2M, MYC, and PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathways and negative enrichment of TNF-α/NF-κB, IL6/JAK/STAT3, and Inflammatory response. Post-chemotherapy relapsed (n = 8) exhibited adaptative immunoregulatory and stress response signatures (IL15, TNFSF18, MAPK8, FUT4), along with reduced immune activation and loss of tumor-suppressor signaling. This study highlights the biological complexity and transcriptional diversity underlying CHL and its tumor microenvironment. Immunotherapy non-responders exhibited an "oncogene-driven" transcriptional profile independent of previous treatment status, whereas responders showed an "inflammatory immune-scape" phenotype, offering insight into mechanisms of resistance. Despite the limited sample size, these findings provide a foundation for larger precision-focused studies aimed at improving outcomes in CHL.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
To optimize the extraction-purification process of Dendrobium officinale polysaccharides (DOPs) and characterize the fine structures of two homogeneous fractions (DOP-1, DOP-2), as well as to evaluate their anti-photoaging activity on HFF cells.An integrated process including petroleum ether defatting, cellulase hydrolysis, water extraction-ethanol precipitation, trypsin-Sevag deproteinization, activated carbon decolorization, and dialysis was used. DOP-1 and DOP-2 were separated by DEAE-52 and Sephadex G-100 chromatography. Their structures were analyzed by FT-IR, methylation-GC/MS, NMR, and SEM. Anti-photoaging effects were assessed via CCK-8, SA-β-Gal staining, and qPCR of TGF-β/Smad pathway genes.The optimized process increased crude polysaccharide yield from 30.34% to 35.03% and polysaccharide content from 31.23% to 49.34%. DOP-1 (Mn 989 Da, PDI 1.15) was a linear oligosaccharide composed of →4)-β-D-Manp (72.32%) and →4)-β-D-Glcp (23.78%) in an alternating pattern. DOP-2 (Mn 2970 Da, PDI 1.67) was a branched polysaccharide with a backbone of →6)-α-D-Glcp (58.06%) and branches at →2,6)-Manp and →4,6)-Glcp. Both DOP-1 and DOP-2 (62.5 μg/mL) protected HFF cells from UVA-induced photoaging, upregulated TGF-β1, Smad3, Smad4, and Collagen I, and downregulated Smad7 and MMP-1, with DOP-2 showing dose-dependent effects.The optimized process enables efficient preparation of DOPs. DOP-1 and DOP-2 possess distinct structural features and exert anti-photoaging effects via regulation of the TGF-β/Smad signaling pathway.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most common and aggressive primary malignant tumor of the adult central nervous system, with nearly 90% of cases recurring within two years despite standard surgery, radiotherapy, and chemotherapy. Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) play critical roles in GBM recurrence, but their characteristics in recurrent GBM remain insufficiently defined. Krüppel-like factor 10 (KLF10) regulates metabolism, mitochondrial function, proliferation, and apoptosis; however, its role in GBM-associated TAMs remains unclear.Single-cell RNA-sequencing data from 16 GBM samples were analyzed to identify recurrence-associated TAMs. Functional features were assessed using GO, KEGG, and CellChat analyses. Marker genes were used to construct a prognostic signature through LASSO and Cox regression. The association between KLF10 and clinicopathological features was evaluated using TCGA data. A GBM cell-macrophage co-culture system was established to examine KLF10 induction, and KLF10-overexpressing macrophages were used to assess effects on GBM-cell proliferation, migration, and invasion.A five-gene prognostic signature comprising KLF10, ZFAND2A, SMAD7, GPR84, and ARHGAP12 was identified. KLF10 expression was associated with WHO grade, IDH mutation, MGMT promoter methylation, 1p/19q co-deletion, molecular subtype, and overall survival, with high KLF10 predicting poor prognosis. Functional enrichment analyses suggested that KLF10-associated genes were linked to ECM-receptor interaction, cell-cycle-related pathways, and cytokine signaling. In vitro, co-culture with GBM cells upregulated KLF10 expression in THP-1-derived macrophages, and KLF10-overexpressing macrophages were associated with increased GBM-cell proliferation, migration, and invasion.KLF10-high macrophages were associated with GBM progression and may serve as a candidate prognostic marker requiring further validation.Copyright © 2026 Zhang, Chen, Fan, Chen, Cao, Hu, Zhou, Xu and Wang.
To investigate the role of histone deacetylase 2 (HDAC2) in cisplatin resistance in ovarian cancer (OC). Cisplatin-resistant OC cell lines were employed to construct HDAC2 overexpression and knockdown models, and their effects on cell proliferation and apoptosis were examined. Chromatin immunoprecipitation, immunoprecipitation, and dual-luciferase reporter assays were performed to investigate the regulation of SMAD7 protein stability and promoter activity by HDAC2. Expression of DNA damage repair-related genes was detected by qRT-PCR. A xenograft mouse model was established for in vivo validation. HDAC2 was highly expressed in cisplatin-resistant OC cells. Overexpression of HDAC2 enhanced drug resistance and inhibited apoptosis and DNA damage, whereas knockdown of HDAC2 exhibited the opposite effects. Mechanistically, HDAC2 directly deacetylated the SMAD7 protein to prevent its degradation rather than suppressing its transcription via H3K27 deacetylation. The HDAC2/SMAD7 axis promoted drug resistance by activating the Wnt/β-catenin signalling pathway and modulating DNA damage repair-related genes. In vivo experiments confirmed that HDAC2 knockdown significantly inhibited tumour growth and enhanced the sensitivity. HDAC2 enhances cisplatin resistance in OC by deacetylating and stabilising SMAD7 protein, thereby activating the Wnt/β-catenin signalling pathway and promoting DNA damage repair.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42543772 is a review article
This study aimed to investigate the differences in the ameliorative effects and underlying mechanisms of Buyang Huanwu Decoction(BHD) and its different ethanol elution fractions on pulmonary fibrosis(PF). The content of amygdalin, formononetin, kaempferol, ferulic acid and paeoniflorin in the drug-containing sera of BHD and its different fractions were determined using ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem quadrupole mass spectrometry. A rat model of PF was established by intratracheal instillation of bleomycin(BLM). The rats were divided into seven groups: a control group, a BLM group, a prednisone acetate(PA) group, a BHD group, a 30% ethanol elution fraction(Fr30) group, a 50% ethanol elution fraction(Fr50) group, and a 90% ethanol elution fraction(Fr90) group. All treatments were administered continuously for 21 days. The degrees of lung inflammation and fibrosis were observed by HE and Masson staining. The hydroxyproline(HYP) levels in lung tissue were determined using a HYP assay kit. The levels of interleukin-1β(IL-1β), interleukin-6(IL-6), interleukin-10(IL-10), tumor necrosis factor-α(TNF-α), and high mobility group box 1 protein(HMGB1) in lung tissue were determined using ELISA kits. The levels of total superoxide dismutase(T-SOD), malondialdehyde(MDA) and glutathione peroxidase(GSH-PX) in lung tissue were determined using corresponding commercial kits. Immunofluorescence staining and Western blot were used to detect the levels of epithelial-mesenchymal transition(EMT)-related proteins in lung tissue. RT-qPCR and Western blot were employed to determine the mRNA and protein levels of factors associated with the transforming growth factor-β1(TGF-β1)/Sma and Mad-related protein(Smad) pathway in lung tissue. The results showed that amygdalin was detected in the drug-containing sera of all groups, with the highest content in the Fr30 group and the lowest in the Fr90 group. Formononetin and kaempferol were detected in the BHD, Fr50, and Fr90 groups, with the highest content in the Fr50 group and the lowest in the Fr90 group. Ferulic acid was detected in all groups, with the highest content in the BHD group and the lowest in the Fr30 group. Paeoniflorin was only detected in the BHD and Fr30 groups, with similar content. Compared with the BLM group, the levels of HYP, TNF-α, IL-6, IL-1β, HMGB1, and MDA decreased in all treatment groups, while the levels of IL-10, T-SOD, and GSH-PX increased. However, there was no statistical significance in the changes of T-SOD level in the Fr30 group and HYP and IL-10 levels in the Fr90 group compared with the BLM group. Immunofluorescence staining showed a marked decrease in the protein expression of α-smooth muscle actin(α-SMA) in the lung tissue of the BHD, Fr30, Fr50, and Fr90 groups. Western blot analysis showed that the expression of epithelial cadherin(E-cadherin) significantly increased, while α-SMA and vimentin protein expressions significantly decreased in the lung tissue of the BHD, Fr30, Fr50, and Fr90 groups. RT-qPCR and Western blot analysis revealed that the mRNA and protein levels of TGF-β1 in the BHD and Fr30 groups significantly decreased, the phosphorylation(p)-Smad3/Smad3 ratio in all treatment groups significantly decreased, and the mRNA and protein levels of Smad7 in the BHD, Fr30 and Fr50 groups significantly increased. In conclusion, BHD and its different ethanol elution fractions may ameliorate BLM-induced PF in rats by inhibiting the TGF-β1/Smad pathway, with the Fr30 and Fr50 fractions showing better ameliorative effects.
Cranial suture formation is a dynamic process that requires precise cellular and molecular coordination to regulate bone growth and maintain suture homeostasis. The Fibroblast Growth Factor Receptor 3 (FGFR3) signaling pathway is among the major pathways disrupted in craniosynostosis; however, its precise role during cranial suture formation is still unknown. Using a relevant fgfr3 LoF zebrafish model exhibiting abnormal suture morphology, we demonstrated for the first time that Fgfr3 plays a pleiotropic role in both the formation and maintenance of cranial sutures. Transmission electron microscopy and second harmonic generation imaging revealed that Fgfr3 is essential for the proper organization of the collagen network within the suture. Using specific transgenic reporter lines, we showed that Fgfr3 is crucial for regulating osteogenesis in this region. Specifically, Fgfr3 limits the number of osteoprogenitors at the osteogenic front and promotes osteoblast maturation at the suture edge. RNAscope analyses further revealed that loss of Fgfr3 led to significant upregulation of fgf18 expression. Finally, our findings show that loss of Fgfr3 results in the activation of the canonical Wnt pathway, and possibly the BMP pathway, within cranial sutures. Pharmacological inhibition of canonical Wnt signaling during suture development using the β-catenin inhibitor XAV939 restored fgf18 expression, partially normalized levels of the BMP antagonist grem1, reduced SMAD1/5 phosphorylation, and produced a significant improvement in cranial suture morphology. In conclusion, these findings position Fgfr3 as a central regulator of cranial suture formation and homeostasis, acting through intricate cross-talk between the FGF, canonical Wnt, and possibly BMP signaling pathways. These data offer new insights into the biology of cranial suture and FGFR3-related craniosynostoses.© 2026. The Author(s).
Interstitial lung disease (ILD) is a common but serious extra-articular manifestation of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). RA-associated ILD (RA-ILD), which often presents with the usual interstitial pneumonia (UIP) pattern, can resemble idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), though the treatment and progression of these two conditions differ. However, the immunologic and molecular mechanisms associated with RA-ILD and IPF development have not been well elucidated at the single-cell level.To investigate the underlying mechanisms associated with RA-ILD and IPF development, we performed single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from five RA-ILD patients and five patients with IPF with a matched age and sex distribution.A high-quality scRNA-seq dataset comprising 31,416 peripheral immune cells was generated. Overall immune composition was similar between groups; however, a significant elevation of NK cells was seen among the RA-ILD PBMCs, with increased expression of cytotoxic and inflammation-related genes (GZMB, GZMH, PRF1) as well as interferon‑related genes (STAT1, STAT3, IRF9, IFNG). Myeloid subsets displayed distinct transcriptional programs in IPF and RA-ILD: IPF CD16⁺ monocytes were enriched for TGF‑β-driven fibrotic signaling, whereas RA-ILD monocytes exhibited type I/II interferon pathway activation. Fibrosis‑related genes (TGFB1, SMAD3, SMAD7, TGIF1) were specifically upregulated in IPF.RA‑ILD and IPF share similar peripheral immune cell compositions, but exhibit distinct transcriptional activation patterns. RA‑ILD is characterized by increased NK‑cell-driven cytotoxic and interferon‑related responses, along with interferon‑activated monocytes. In contrast, IPF shows a TGF‑β-dominant fibrotic program, with transcriptional activation of CD16⁺ monocytes and upregulation of fibrosis‑related genes.
The unfolded protein response (UPR) preserves endoplasmic reticulum proteostasis through coordinated signaling pathways, including the IRE1α-XBP1 axis, which promotes adaptive transcriptional programs via noncanonical XBP1 mRNA splicing. However, upstream mechanisms regulating this pathway remain incompletely defined. Here, we apply CRASP-seq, a scalable RNA-coupled CRISPR screening platform, to systematically identify regulators of XBP1 splicing. We uncovered the U2 snRNP auxiliary factor RBM39 as a critical positive regulator of this process. Perturbation of RBM39 or U2 snRNP components induces alternative splicing of ERN1, leading to exon-18 skipping and the production of an unstable transcript subject to nonsense-mediated decay, as well as a truncated IRE1α isoform that acts in a dominant-negative manner to suppress XBP1 splicing. Mechanistically, we show that heat shock reduces RBM39 functional activity and promotes ERN1 exon-18 skipping, thereby attenuating IRE1α-XBP1 signaling. Functionally, hyperactivation of this pathway is detrimental under proteotoxic stress, suggesting that exon-18 skipping serves as a stress-adaptive mechanism to limit UPR output. Together, our findings reveal a previously unrecognized regulatory axis linking the canonical splicing machinery to UPR signaling and establish alternative splicing of ERN1 as a key modulator of cellular stress responses.Published by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press.
Osteoporosis and osteosarcoma impose a substantial and rising global health burden, yet their transcriptomic landscapes have not been systematically compared. We performed a multiomics characterization integrating bulk transcriptomics, coexpression network analysis, immune deconvolution, single-cell RNA sequencing, and diagnostic classifier construction.Bulk transcriptomic profiling was performed using GSE56815 (circulating blood monocytes, n = 80; 40 low-BMD/40 high-BMD) and the TARGET-OS database (n = 88 osteosarcoma tumor samples; DNA methylation n = 86; copy number n = 81). Differential expression was assessed by Welch's t-test with Benjamini-Hochberg correction. Coexpression modules were identified by hierarchical clustering of the Top 2000 most variable probes with dynamic tree cutting. A logistic regression classifier was constructed from the Top 20 differentially expressed probes using fivefold-stratified cross-validation. Single-cell RNA sequencing of an osteosarcoma tumor specimen (GEO accession GSM9030790) was processed with SVD-based dimensionality reduction and K-means clustering (k = 8; n = 3658 cells passing QC). In vitro validation was conducted by qRT-PCR in MC3T3-E1 osteoblast precursor cells and RAW264.7 osteoclast precursor cells.Differential expression analysis identified 4347 probe sets at nominal p < 0.05, of which 604 remained significant after Benjamini-Hochberg correction. Eight coexpression modules were identified; module M0 showed a weak positive association with low-BMD status (r = 0.184), which did not reach statistical significance. Six hub genes-SP7/Osterix, RUNX2, BMP2, WNT5A, DKK1, and SOST-were examined by qRT-PCR: SP7, RUNX2, BMP2, and WNT5A showed significant downregulation (p < 0.01), whereas DKK1 showed significant upregulation (p < 0.01) and SOST showed a nonsignificant trend toward upregulation under osteoporosis-simulating conditions. The diagnostic classifier achieved a moderate AUC of 0.693 (fivefold CV range: 0.48-0.91), with the lower bound falling below the random classifier baseline (AUC = 0.5), indicating limited discriminative capacity in some data partitions. scRNA-seq resolved eight transcriptionally distinct cell clusters in the osteosarcoma specimen (3658 cells passing QC).This integrative multiomics study provides a comprehensive transcriptomic comparison of osteoporosis and osteosarcoma, identifies BMD-associated coexpression modules with experimentally validated hub genes, and establishes a reusable analytical framework for biomarker discovery in metabolic and malignant bone disease. However, the weak module-trait correlations, subthreshold classifier performance in some cross-validation folds, and the use of circulating blood monocytes to study bone-specific gene expression warrant cautious interpretation of the findings.Copyright © 2026 Dongming Fu et al. International Journal of Genomics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42563691 is a review article
Influenza A virus (IAV) remains a major global health threat due to its high mutation rate and the emergence of antiviral resistance. Targeting host factors provides an alternative therapeutic strategy to overcome these challenges. Previous studies have shown that the L-type calcium channel Cav1.2 was implicated in viral infections. In this study, we aimed to clarify the mechanism by which Cav1.2 acts as a critical host factor mediating IAV infection, using the dihydropyridine-type calcium channel blocker nisoldipine. Nisoldipine showed notable antiviral activity in both in vitro and in vivo models. Mechanistically, nisoldipine inhibited IAV internalization by targeting Cav1.2, thereby suppressing calcium-dependent activation of the Ras-PI3K-AKT, RhoA-ROCK, and JNK pathways associated with viral internalization. Moreover, nisoldipine modulated the unfolded protein response (UPR) in host cells by promoting adaptive XBP1 splicing and contributed to the maintenance of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) homeostasis during IAV infection. Collectively, these observations support a sequential cascade model: Cav1.2 inhibition restrains viral entry and indirectly mitigates virus-triggered ER stress. Furthermore, nisoldipine exhibits broad-spectrum in vitro antiviral activity against multiple enveloped RNA and DNA viruses, including human coronavirus OC43 (HCoV-OC43), respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), Zika virus (ZIKV), Dengue virus Type 2 (DENV2), and Herpes Simplex Virus Type 1/2 (HSV-1/2). This study clarifies the mechanistic involvement of Cav1.2 in IAV infection and further identifies it as a promising broad-spectrum antiviral target with potential applications in preventing and treating influenza, human coronavirus infections, and other emerging viral diseases.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Antibiotic-induced disruption of the gut microbiota is known to influence host metabolism; however, whether its metabolic effects depend on the duration of exposure remains unclear, particularly in relation to adipose thermogenesis under high-fat diet (HFD) conditions.C57BL/6 mice fed an HFD were treated with a broad-spectrum antibiotic cocktail for either short-term (2 weeks) or long-term (10 weeks). Body weight, adiposity, metabolic parameters, and energy expenditure were assessed. Thermogenic capacity was evaluated by histology and gene expression analysis in brown and white adipose tissues, following stimulation with the β3-adrenergic receptor agonist CL316243. Gut microbiota composition was analyzed using 16S rRNA sequencing.Short-term antibiotic treatment attenuated HFD-induced weight gain, reduced fat accumulation, and increased weight-adjusted CL316243-stimulated metabolic rate, accompanied by upregulation of thermogenic genes (Ppargc1a, Pparg, Ucp1). In contrast, long-term treatment exacerbated obesity, decreased metabolic rate and rectal temperature, and suppressed thermogenic gene expression. Microbiota analysis revealed partial recovery of α-diversity after short-term intervention, whereas long-term treatment led to persistent dysbiosis with reduced diversity and altered community structure.The metabolic consequences of antibiotic-induced microbiota disruption are strongly duration-dependent. Transient perturbation is associated with enhanced adipose thermogenesis and energy expenditure, whereas prolonged disruption correlates with impaired thermogenic capacity and worsened metabolic outcomes. However, causal relationships remain to be established. These findings highlight the importance of temporal dynamics in host-microbiota interactions and provide insight into microbiota-targeted strategies for metabolic disorders.Copyright © 2026 Feng, Cui, Bi, Liu, Yang, Ouyang, Xu, Zhao, Xi, Yang, Sun, Wang and Li.
Regulatory restrictions on fluorinated ski waxes have recently been introduced in professional winter sports to mitigate environmental contamination by per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS). However, field evidence demonstrating their environmental effectiveness remains limited. This study presents a before-after field investigation evaluating changes in pollution following the International Biathlon Union's ban on fluorinated ski waxes, implemented for the 2023/2024 season. PFAS occurrence, distribution, and temporal trends were assessed in multiple environmental matrices (snowmelt, surface water, and soil) at an international skiing and biathlon venue in Nove Mesto na Morave (Czech Republic). Sampling was conducted before the ban (2022/2023 Biathlon World Cup) and after its implementation (2023/2024 Biathlon World Championships). Targeted analysis of 42 PFAS by UHPLC-MS/MS revealed matrix-specific contamination patterns. Snowmelt and soils were dominated by long-chain perfluoroalkyl carboxylic acids (C8-C18 PFCAs), with maximum ∑PFCA concentrations of 1,187 ng/L and 160 ng/g dry weight, respectively, whereas surface waters contained higher proportions of short-chain PFCAs (C4-C7), with concentrations reaching up to 42 ng/L. Following the implementation of the ban, median ΣPFAS concentrations in snowmelt decreased by approximately 90%, with significant differences among sampling campaigns. These findings provide field-scale evidence supporting reduced PFAS inputs associated with ski waxing activities following the ban. In contrast, PFAS concentrations in surface waters remained elevated, suggesting continued mobilization of legacy contamination from historically impacted soils. These findings demonstrate the effectiveness of regulatory restrictions on fluorinated ski waxes while highlighting the persistence and delayed release of legacy PFAS in winter sports environments.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Therapeutic protein overexpression can overwhelm endoplasmic reticulum (ER) folding capacity, trigger unfolded protein response (UPR) signaling, and compromise the safety of gene and mRNA therapies. Here, we engineer stress-responsive RNA rheostats that couple transgene expression to endogenous ER stress sensing. Short RNA elements derived from X-box-binding protein 1 (XBP1) mRNA undergo inositol-requiring enzyme 1α (IRE1α)-dependent splicing under ER stress, inducing a frameshift that attenuates downstream protein expression. XBP1 switches function across DNA and mRNA delivery platforms and regulate the expression of fluorescent reporters, coagulation factor VIII, and Leronlimab, a therapeutic anti-CCR5 monoclonal antibody. Switch activation reduces ER stress markers while preserving expression under homeostatic conditions. We further demonstrate the regulation of Leronlimab expression in vivo using recombinant adeno-associated virus vectors. Together, these findings establish programmable RNA feedback control as a strategy for linking cellular proteostasis to therapeutic protein expression and improving the safety of gene and mRNA therapies.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Inflammation causes bone loss by dysregulating the differentiation and functions of osteoclasts, osteoblasts, and osteocytes. This process can be modeled by the expression of constitutively activated IKK2 (IKK2ca), a strategy that we leveraged to investigate the mechanisms through which inflammation negatively affects cells of the osteoblast/osteocyte lineage. We found that mice expressing IKK2ca in osteoblasts exhibit significant bone loss. Mechanistically, IKK2ca downregulates the expression of osteoblast genes while inducing the differentiation of bone-forming osteoblasts into catabolic osteocytes like cells, expressing high levels of Podoplanin, Fgf23, Dkk1 and Sclerostin. We term these atypical inflammatory osteocyte-like cells (aiOCy-L cells) as they highly express inflammatory and senescence markers and promote osteoclast differentiation as well. Additional data show that inflammation induces abnormal differentiation of OB into aiOCy-L cells through upregulating mTOR and glycolysis. In summary, we uncovered a mechanism by which inflammation alters osteoblast differentiation and fate decision via the IKK2/mTOR/glycolysis axis.© 2026. The Author(s).
The BRAF V600E mutation is a common driver variant in differentiated thyroid carcinoma (DTC); however, the clinical significance of its co-mutation patterns in the Chinese population remains unclear. This study aimed to analyze the predictive value of BRAF V600E co-mutations for aggressive clinicopathological features in DTC by detecting a 10-gene panel, providing molecular evidence for refined risk stratification.A multicenter cohort of 240 DTC patients from two medical centers was retrospectively enrolled. A 10-gene panel (BRAF V600E, TERT, NRAS, HRAS, KRAS, PIK3CA, RET, PPARG, NTRK1, NTRK3) was assessed using Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) for mutations and fusion events. Based on mutation status, patients were categorized into three groups: BRAF V600E-mutation alone, BRAF V600E co-mutation, and non-BRAF V600E mutation groups. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) was performed to evaluate P53 and Ki-67 expression. Clinicopathological characteristics were compared using chi-square, Fisher's exact, or Kruskal-Wallis tests as appropriate. Log-rank test assessed differences in recurrence-free survival (RFS), while binary/ordinal logistic regression analyzed the predictive role of BRAF V600E co-mutations for aggressiveness (capsular invasion, ATA risk stratification, lymph node metastasis, and recurrence).The BRAF V600E co-mutation group (n = 21) exhibited significantly higher rates of capsular invasion (52.4 %vs. 13.2 % and 23.1 %, *p*<0.01) and ATA high-risk classification (57.1 %vs. 25.7 % and 28.8 %, *p*<0.05) compared to the BRAFV600E -mutation alone group (n = 167) and non-BRAFV600E mutation group (n = 52). Tumor stage distribution (AJCC 8th edition) also differed significantly among the three groups, with the co-mutation group showing the highest proportion of advanced T stage (T3-T4) (*p*<0.05). TERT was the most frequently co-mutated gene. Logistic regression revealed that the BRAFV600E co-mutation group had significantly increased risks of capsular invasion (OR = 3.667, 95 % CI: 1.325-10.713) and ATA high-risk status (OR=2.881, 95 % CI: 1.217-6.839). Although P53/Ki-67 expression did not differ significantly among groups (*p* > 0.05), the co-mutation group showed a trend toward higher proportions of cases with Ki-67 ≥ 10 % (9.5 %vs. 7.2 % and 5.7 %, *p*=0.09).These results suggest that BRAFV600E co-mutations are associated with more aggressive DTC features in a Chinese patient cohort. The 10-gene panel used in this analysis may offer potential as a tool for identifying subsets of patients with adverse pathology, such that it warrants further investigation as a tool for refined risk stratification. However, prospective studies are needed to confirm its clinical utility and clarify its potential for optimized patient management..Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Recent genetic findings have broadened the perspectives of cluster headache pathophysiology. Genes identified by genome wide association studies are likely to be involved in the pathophysiological mechanisms underlying the disease. In this study, we performed validation and characterization of eight loci corresponding to nine genes identified in previous genome wide association studies.Genetic loci were validated by means of a case-control study using TaqMan genotyping in 671 individuals, and a meta-analysis using previously genotyped data. Pyrosequencing methylation analysis and reverse transcription quantitative PCR gene expression studies was performed in a subset of individuals with cluster headache and healthy controls.Genetic associations were found with functional variants in two genes; FHL5 and MERTK. The minor allele of the FHL5 variant rs2273621 was associated with an increased risk of cluster headache in the genotyped samples (odds ratio = 1.42, P = 0.03) and in a meta-analysis (odds ratio = 1.29, confidence interval: 1.09-1.52), and the minor allele of the rs2230515 variant in MERTK was associated with lower risk in the meta-analysis (odds ratio = 0.69, confidence interval: 0.52-0.92). Methylation analysis further revealed altered methylation status of MERTK. Moreover, changes in relative gene expression were found for several candidate genes: a decrease in the mRNA expression of DUSP10 (P < 0.001), CAPN2 (P < 0.001), UFL1 (P < 0.001) and LRP1 (P = 0.007) in blood, and a decrease of CAPN2 (P < 0.001) as well as an increase in the mRNA expression of FTCDNL1/FONG (P = 0.004) in fibroblasts in CH vs. controls. Only two genes; PLCE1 and WNT2, could not be validated in the biological tissue studied; WNT2, possibly due to limited power, while PLCE1 was not expressed in the available tissue.These results confirm the validity of seven candidate genes for cluster headache identified through GWAS. Furthermore, five of the candidate genes are abundantly expressed in both immune and blood cells, converge functionally on inflammatory signalling pathways and suggest a potential role for inflammasomes in cluster headache.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42552594 is a review article
Corticosteroids are among the most highly prescribed drugs. Chronic treatment with corticosteroids causes osteopenia, as well as growth failure in children. Our goal was to identify serum biomarkers of prednisone-related perturbations of bone and/or cartilage metabolism associated with growth failure in children. We utilized longitudinal serum samples from a double-blind, placebo- and prednisone-controlled trial of vamorolone in 4 to < 7 years children with Duchenne muscular dystrophy assayed by proteomic methods. Vamorolone is a recently approved bone-sparing corticosteroid that has been shown to have similar efficacy as prednisone but does not cause growth failure. The study included a 24-week Period 1 (placebo, prednisone [0.75 mg/kg/day], vamorolone [6 mg/kg/day]), and a 24-week Period 2 where placebo and vamorolone groups crossed over to vamorolone. Clinical laboratory measures of ALP, osteocalcin, P1NP, and CTX1 showed significant reductions with prednisone, but were unchanged by vamorolone treatment or placebo. Proteomics studies of serum proteins reduced by prednisone, but not vamorolone or placebo, identified 10 proteins where mutations in the corresponding genes are known to cause genetic disorders of cartilage and/or bone (collagens [COL2A1, Chondrocalcin, COL6A1, COL9A1, COL10A1, COL11A2], aggrecan core protein [ACAN], biglycan [BGN], osteopetrosis-associated transmembrane protein 1 [OSTM1], and noggin [NOG]). On transitioning from prednisone to vamorolone, all 10 biomarkers returned to baseline levels. Non-human (animal) studies have shown that traditional corticosteroids cause apoptosis of terminal hypertrophic chondrocytes associated with growth failure. Our clinical trial studies suggest that the 10 novel, corticosteroid-related biomarkers likely reflect the induction of apoptosis in terminal hypertrophic chondrocytes and osteoblasts by traditional corticosteroids. Vamorolone may spare chondrocytes and osteoblasts from this apoptosis, consistent with maintenance of normal growth in vamorolone-treated children.Trial registration The clinical trial registration (clinicaltrials.gov) is NCT03439670 ( https://www.clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03439670 ).© 2026. The Author(s).
Precise delivery of functional agents to specific plant organs remains a central challenge, as synthetic materials rarely access endogenous long-distance transport pathways. Here, we report an auxin-functionalized nanocarrier strategy that enables programmable systemic transport by interfacing engineered materials with plant signaling networks. Nanocarrier dimensions were tuned to ∼55 nm to limit endocytosis and favor extracellular localization, while auxin motifs were introduced on the particle surface. This design establishes a predominantly extracellular interface that hijacks polar auxin transport pathways. As a result, PIN-mediated fluxes are enhanced, accompanied by a 10.42-fold upregulation of PIN1, enabling directional leaf-to-root transport over centimeter scales and a 72.32-fold increase in root accumulation. This signal-coupled transport mechanism enables efficient root-targeted delivery of agrochemical cargos (abamectin) via foliar application, achieving up to 79.71% control of root-knot nematodes while reducing pesticide input by half. Furthermore, bypassing soil application provides a 3.20-fold higher ecological safety margin and yields a 16.47% increase in crop production. Beyond this application, the work establishes a generalizable design principle in which synthetic materials exploit endogenous signaling frameworks to navigate biological transport systems, opening new opportunities for systemic crop protection and bio-integrated material delivery.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
This study aimed to explore shared genetic architectures underlying Alzheimer's disease (AD) and its known risk factors.Significant common variants between AD and its risk factors were identified using GWAS data. The 1000 Genomes Project genotyping data enabled the detection of linkage disequilibrium (LD) blocks and haplotype structures. Functional impact assessments, protein-protein interaction analyses, pathway mapping and enrichment studies were performed.Sixteen significant variants across nine genes were associated with AD and at least one risk factor (p ≤ 5 × 10-8). Genes APOE, ABCA1 and TOMM40 showed strong associations with AD (adjusted p = 9.75 × 10-9). High-confidence interactions were identified among these genes, as well as APP and LRP1, within the AD pathway. Variant rs429358 (p ≤ 3 × 10-15) on the APOE gene was linked to AD, metabolic syndrome (MetS), diabetes, waist-to-hip ratio (WHR) and ageing. Variant rs2075650 (p ≤ 6 × 10-9) on TOMM40 correlated AD risk with MetS, WHR and body mass index (BMI). Variants rs483082 (p ≤ 2 × 10-32) and rs71352238 (p ≤ 1 × 10-11) on APOC1 and TOMM40 were associated with AD and MetS. Variants rs4420638 (p ≤ 2 × 10-34) and rs1800978 (p ≤ 2 × 10-9) on APOC1 and ABCA genes were associated with AD and WHR. The rs13237518 (p ≤ 5 × 10-11) was associated with AD risk in diabetic patients. Furthermore, the rs4277405 (p ≤ 9 × 10-20) associated AD with cardiovascular disease (CVD). Haplotypic structures were also identified for all these variants (D' and r2 ≥ 0.8).This study identifies genetic variants and LD blocks on APOE, ABCA1, TOMM40 and APOC1 genes shared between AD and its risk factors, revealing common genetic links and potential shared susceptibility pathways.© 2026 Japanese Psychogeriatric Society.
Non-syndromic cleft palate only (NSCPO) is a distinct clinical and etiological entity within the spectrum of orofacial clefts. While genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified numerous risk loci for nonsyndromic cleft lip with or without cleft palate (NSCL/P), the genetic architecture of NSCPO remains less understood, particularly in the Japanese population. This study aimed to investigate the association of three candidate genes, VAX1, MAFB, and NOG, with NSCPO risk. A case-control study was carried out involving 65 Japanese NSCPO patients and 119 ethnically matched healthy controls. Three single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), rs7078160 (VAX1), rs13041247 (MAFB), and rs227731 (NOG), were selected based on previous GWAS and minor allele frequency. Statistical associations were evaluated using chi-squared or Fisher's exact tests. The VAX1 rs7078160 polymorphism showed a significant association with NSCPO under a recessive model (OR = 2.10, 95% CI = 1.05-4.22, p = 0.034), with the AA genotype showing a higher risk. No significant associations were found for MAFB rs13041247 or NOG rs227731 (p > 0.05). Our findings identify VAX1 rs7078160 as a potential risk factor for NSCPO in the Japanese population. These results show the need for larger studies to further explain the molecular pathways of NSCPO.© 2026 Japanese Teratology Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42525165 is a review article
Osteosarcoma (OSA) is an aggressive primary bone tumor of humans and dogs, with metastatic progression remaining the major determinant of poor outcome. Although serum alkaline phosphatase (ALP) has been investigated as a prognostic marker in OSA, its clinical value remains inconsistent across studies. We examined whether ALP-associated transcriptional programs in canine OSA could capture conserved tumor biology relevant to metastatic behavior in human OSA. Differential expression analysis of a canine OSA RNA-seq cohort, followed by repeated LASSO and Boruta feature selection, identified an 11-gene ALP-associated signature. This signature was mapped to human orthologs and evaluated in two independent human OSA transcriptomic cohorts for metastatic-status classification. Candidate genes were further assessed through structured literature review and dog-human orthology analysis. Across human validation datasets, the canine-derived signature showed moderate but reproducible discrimination of metastatic status, with AUC values of approximately 0.70-0.78 depending on cohort and classifier. Several candidate genes, including KEAP1, CCN3, NACC1, and TNFRSF6B, were linked to metastatic processes such as oxidative-stress response, extracellular matrix remodeling, stemness, immune evasion, and survival under stress. Additional survival analysis in the canine GSE238110 cohort showed that ALP status alone was not a statistically significant prognostic marker, although elevated ALP showed a weak trend toward poorer overall survival. These findings suggest that the signature represents an ALP-associated molecular phenotype rather than a direct serum-ALP prognostic surrogate. This study supports comparative oncology as a discovery framework for prioritizing conserved metastasis-related biomarkers requiring further validation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) features a fibrotic stroma dominated by cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), yet the functional heterogeneity of CAFs and their crosstalk with malignant cells in metastasis and immune evasion remain unclear.We performed an integrated analysis of single‑cell RNA‑seq data and spatial transcriptomics of PDAC. Pseudotime trajectory reconstruction, regulon activity inference, and ligand-receptor interaction mapping were applied to dissect fibroblast heterogeneity and stromal-epithelial crosstalk. Bulk transcriptomic data from multiple independent cohorts were used to evaluate prognostic and immunotherapeutic implications.We identified nine CAF subsets, including a THBS2⁺ ECM‑remodeling population enriched in liver metastases. Spatial transcriptomics localized these THBS2⁺ CAFs to dense stromal regions surrounding malignant ducts, where they established an immune‑excluded microenvironment correlated with T‑cell exclusion and immunotherapy resistance. Pseudotime analysis revealed PRRX2 as a master regulator driving this CAF subset. Epithelial sub-clustering uncovered KRT17⁺ malignant cells (a transcriptionally distinct epithelial subpopulation associated with EMT and metastasis) that co-enriched with THBS2⁺ CAFs in metastatic sites. Ligand-receptor analysis showed that THBS2⁺ CAFs are computationally predicted to signal to KRT17⁺ cells via the THBS2-SDC4 axis, while malignant cells reciprocally activate CAFs through MDK-LRP1 and SPP1-integrin pathways. Co‑infiltration of both populations strongly predicted poor prognosis and resistance to anti‑PD‑L1 therapy across multiple cohorts.The THBS2⁺ CAF-KRT17⁺ malignant cell axis drives metastatic progression and immune exclusion in PDAC via THBS2-SDC4 signaling, representing a promising prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Photodynamic immunotherapy is constrained by the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME) that scavenges reactive oxygen species (ROS) and limits immunogenic cell death. Lanthanide-doped upconversion nanoparticles enable near-infrared-triggered singlet oxygen generation, yet their efficacy is hampered by intrinsically low upconversion luminescence efficiency and glutathione-mediated ROS quenching. Here we report a dual-locked glutathione (GSH)-activatable nanoassembly (Cy-UCMA) that integrates cascade energy transfer with self-reinforcing oxidative stress. The system employs a nitroazo-ether probe (Cy-GSH) that remains optically silent until encountering two orthogonal triggers: endogenous GSH (biochemical key) and 808 nm light (physical key). GSH triggers nucleophilic aromatic substitution to generate a NIR-absorbing antenna (Cy-SG), which sensitizes Nd3+-doped UCNPs via non-radiative energy transfer (Φ  =  45%), boosting upconversion luminescence by 2.7-fold. Enhanced emission drives fluorescence resonance energy transfer (Φ  =  22%) to iron-porphyrin units within PCN-222(Fe), increasing 1O2 generation by 2.02-fold. Concurrent Fe3+-mediated GSH depletion disrupts redox homeostasis, creating a positive feedback loop of oxidative stress. This chemo-optically gated nanoplatform induces robust immunogenic cell death, promotes dendritic cell maturation, enhances cytotoxic T-cell infiltration, and suppresses both primary tumors and pulmonary metastases. Our work establishes a bio-orthogonal activation paradigm that bridges molecular switching with nanoscale energy transfer for precision cancer immunotherapy.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
To identify early molecular diagnostic biomarkers for optic atrophy (OPA) and explore potential mechanisms mediated by proteins.Gene expression data was sourced from eQTLGen (31 684 samples; 19 960 genes). The OPA discovery cohort came from FinnGen (629 cases; 496 621 controls); the validation cohort came from the genome-wide association studies (GWAS) catalog (58 cases; 496 621 controls). Protein data for mediation analysis was obtained from the deCODE Genetics consortium (35 559 samples; 4907 proteins). Causal estimates were derived using two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR). Inverse-variance weighted (IVW) was the primary analysis method. Sensitivity analyses included MR-Egger intercept, Cochran's Q test for heterogeneity, and leave-one-out analysis. Colocalization analysis validated identified genes. Additionally, interaction analysis identified potential biomarkers. Finally, mediation analysis assessed potential mediating mechanisms.Multi-cohort validation revealed that increased expression levels of the SEC61A2 and THNSL2 were causally associated with an elevated risk of OPA. Furthermore, we identified 386 genes potentially associated with OPA. Hormone secretion and immune-related pathways were found to play significant roles in OPA pathogenesis. Mediation analysis indicated that Upper zone of growth plate and cartilage matrix associated (UCMA) potentially mediates the effect of SEC61A2 in increasing OPA risk.SEC61A2 and THNSL2 may serve as early diagnostic biomarkers for OPA. Additionally, SEC61A2 likely increases OPA risk through UCMA.International Journal of Ophthalmology Press.
We previously performed a strain intercross between atherosclerosis resistant AKR Apoe -/- mice and atherosclerosis sensitive DBA/2 Apoe -/- mice and identified the Ath28 quantitative trait locus (QTL) on the distal end of chromosome 2. Congenic strain fine mapping identified the Ath28 . 1 QTL atherosclerosis modifying subregion, encompassing 217 Kb, containing for only three protein-coding genes, Zbp1, Pck1 , and Pmepa1 , encoding respectively, Z-DNA binding protein 1, phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase 1, and prostate transmembrane protein androgen induced 1.The effect of macrophage-specific knockout of Pck1 (KO) was tested using the AAV2 transduced proprotein convertase subtilisin kexin type 9 (PCSK9) overexpression mouse model of hyperlipidemia and atherosclerosis.Unexpectedly, macrophage Pck1 deficiency lowered body weight, liver weight, and HDL-cholesterol levels in both sexes, while total and non-HDL cholesterol levels were only decreased in male mice. Aortic root lesion area and necrotic lesion area were unchanged in KO mice of both sexes.Pck1 was not confirmed as an atherosclerosis modifier gene.
Enzalutamide resistance (Enz-R) remains a major clinical challenge in advanced prostate cancer (PCa). Here, we identified resistance-associated long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) PCAT1 and investigated its functional relevance in Enz-R PCa.Public transcriptomic datasets, bioinformatic analyses, RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP), ChIP-qPCR, and in vitro and in vivo functional assays were used to evaluate the expression, function, and potential mechanism of PCAT1 in Enz-R PCa models.PCAT1 was upregulated in Enz-R PCa models and was associated with adverse clinical features. PCAT1 knockdown inhibited the growth of C4-2 Enz-R cells and 22Rv1 cells and suppressed tumor growth in vivo. Mechanistically, PCAT1 was associated with AR/AR-V7 and supported selected AR-V7-associated downstream outputs without markedly altering AR-V7 protein expression. AR-V7 ChIP-qPCR further suggested that PCAT1 knockdown reduced AR-V7 enrichment at selected regulatory regions, including the KLK3 and PMEPA1 enhancers. In addition, high-dose androgen treatment reduced PCAT1 and AR-V7 expression in our experimental model.PCAT1 contributes to Enz-R PCa growth and may support selected AR-V7-associated transcriptional outputs. PCAT1 may represent a potential therapeutic vulnerability, and the relationship between high-dose androgen treatment, PCAT1 suppression, and AR-V7 signaling warrants further investigation.© 2026 Li et al.
The mechanisms of EV-A71 immune evasion and neuroinvasion are poorly understood. Inactivated vaccines provide protective immunity without the dysregulated inflammation and viral persistence caused by active infection. In this bioinformatics-driven study, our objective was to utilize computational transcriptomics to investigate this dichotomy and determine the specific neural cell populations susceptible to enteroviral infection.We compared bulk RNA-seq data from THP-1 macrophages infected with active versus inactivated EV-A71 to identify viral hijacking programs. We then applied these systemic findings to the neural environment via an iterative Area Under the Curve (AUC)-based optimization strategy. This process refined the broad bulk-derived candidates into a 10-gene consensus signature, which was projected onto a human spinal cord organoid single-cell RNA-seq atlas to map viral susceptibility across distinct developmental lineages.While active infection with EV-A71 is associated with a wound-healing program defined by the expression of PMEPA1, ALOX5, CCL1, and SPRED3, the administration of an inactivated virus elicits an anti-inflammatory response without activating a similar transcriptional program. In fact, decreased expression of inflammatory factors (ADORA2A, CCR1, CXCL1) marks this wound-healing stage and leads to the development of an immunosuppressive M2 phenotype. By projecting the highly robust 10-gene consensus (comprising ALDH2, SERPINE2, and L1CAM) against the organoid atlas, we have predicted that the cycling neural progenitors could be the most likely reservoir for EV-A71 replication. Using a Wilcoxon rank sum test with Benjamini-Hochberg correction, we observed the only statistically enriched signature in progenitor cells Discussion: Transcriptomic data indicate that EV-A71 might hijack TGF-β/PMEPA1 and ALOX5 signaling pathways to establish EMT-like behavior. The local acquisition of an M2-like immunosuppressive state might help promote early systemic dissemination, immunologic escape, followed by colonization of the proliferative neural niche prior to the development of neurological symptoms.Computational identification of a macrophage gene signature provides robust discrimination of EV-A71 infection from vaccine-based protection in vivo. Mapping the signature to the context of human spinal cord organoids indicates that EV-A71 specifically targets proliferative and regenerative programs of neural stem cells.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Fertility traits are core functional traits in dairy cattle, yet their low heritability makes traditional phenotypic selection inefficient. Weighted single-step GWAS (WssGWAS) improves detection power by integrating pedigree, phenotype, and genotype data. This study aimed to estimate genetic parameters and identify genomic regions associated with eight fertility traits in Chinese Holstein cattle using pedigree, phenotype, and genotype data. Genetic parameters were estimated via pedigree-based BLUP (PBLUP) and ssGBLUP, and a WssGWAS was performed to detect QTL. A total of 23,771 cattle were genotyped using liquid-phase chips and 150 K chips; after imputation and quality control, 13,690 individuals and 103,262 SNPs were retained. The eight traits comprised heifer traits (AFS, AFC, NS_H, and IFL_H) and cow traits (ICF, CI, NS_C, and IFL_C). The findings indicate that while most fertility traits exhibit low heritability (ranging from 0.024 to 0.085), AFS displays high heritability (0.390). WssGWAS identified 162 QTL intervals and 645 candidate genes, including OVOS2, PMEPA1, TEPP, and the RAG family, which are closely associated with reproductive function. These findings provide a foundation for future research into the genetic mechanisms of fertility and support improved genomic predictions in Chinese Holstein cattle.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42193063 is a review article
Bladder cancer exhibits sex-specific behavior, occurring more frequently in males but progressing to advanced stages more commonly in females. The activation of sex hormone receptors may explain these differences, but the exact genetic drivers remain poorly understood. Furthermore, current bladder cancer biomarkers have inconsistent sensitivities and specificities in practice, making early diagnosis a challenge.This study approaches bladder cancer biomarker discovery through machine learning techniques on gender and disease-stratified RNA-seq data. Training sets limited to differentially expressed genes were subjected to four different feature selection methods: differential gene expression analysis adjusted p-value, recursive feature elimination with support vector machine, logistic regression, and an optimized random forest procedure. Gene panels were compared and aggregated across selection strategies and cross-validation folds to identify robust biomarkers for sex-specific bladder cancer development and progression.When applied to unseen datasets and limited to 50 genes or less, male and female-specific panels achieved areas under the receiver operating characteristic curve of 0.932 and 0.914, respectively, in distinguishing bladder cancer samples from non-tumor controls. In terms of enriched pathways, the male panel was associated with cell interactions and altered PI3K-AKT signaling, while the female panel was more closely connected to extracellular matrix reorganization. The panel differentiating male and female tumors had a poorer performance on external datasets compared to the sex-specific analyses, but still contained relevant genes.Genes such as PRAC1 and PCDH11Y were identified as high-impact predictors related to sex hormones or chromosomes for male tumor development. In the female-specific panel, genes related to aberrant androgen signaling across tumor types like androgen receptor, PLXNA1, USP54, and PMEPA1 were influential. These results offer potential targets for further in vivo/vitro experimentation and provide a framework for constructing high-performance gene panels related to sex-specific bladder cancer biology.Copyright © 2026 Pizzi, Adhikari, Prakash, Shi, Miyamoto and Cui.
Gastric cancer (GC) has a complex pathogenesis driven by infection, genetic mutations, epigenetic reprogramming, and tumor microenvironment (TME) remodelling, all of which contribute to tumorigenesis, metastasis, and immune evasion. Retinoic acid receptor gamma (RARG) is implicated in many cancers, but its role in GC remains unclear. This study investigates the function of RARG in GC and explores its underlying regulatory mechanisms.Transcription factor prediction and CUT&Tag sequencing were used to identify upstream regulators of PMEPA1. RARG expression in GC was assessed by western blotting and immunohistochemistry (IHC). The impact of RARG on GC via PMEPA1 was evaluated through functional assays. The mechanism of RARG in GC was further analysed using single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and validated in vitro and in vivo.We identify RARG as a transcriptional regulator of PMEPA1 and show that RARG abundance is elevated in GC epithelial cells and associated with poorer overall survival. RARG depletion suppressed GC cell proliferation, invasion, and migration, whereas PMEPA1 re-expression partially rescued these phenotypes. Additionally, RARG directly binds β-catenin to promote its nuclear accumulation, consistent with enhanced Wnt/β-catenin signalling.RARG overexpression promotes GC progression by transcriptionally activating PMEPA1 via a genomic mechanism and, in parallel, directly binding β-catenin to enhance Wnt/β-catenin signalling.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Ovarian cancer (OC) is a fatal female malignancy, and cisplatin resistance severely impacts the clinical management of epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC), the most prevalent histological subtype accounting for over 90% of cases. Exploration of novel effective targets and drugs for treatment of cisplatin-resistant EOC is urgently needed to address the tremendous challenge. In this study, we screened a Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) library including 978 monomers and found that Raddeanin A (RA) extracted from Anemone raddeana Regel displayed the powerful cytotoxic effect on cisplatin-resistant EOC cells. Further investigations revealed that RA had potential of inducing ferroptosis via binding to an evolutionarily conserved scaffold protein, VEPH1. Bioinformatics analysis combined with RA-sepharose pull-down assay and immunoprecipitation confirmed that RA interacted with two sites of VEPH1, site 1 (S1) at 212-217 aa and site 2 (S2) at 579-651 aa, and S1 was also involved in VEPH1 binding to and promoting lats1 activation. Moreover, RA bound to and enhanced VEPH1 degradation through the proteasome pathway, and meanwhile inhibited the interaction between VEPH1 and lats1, which in turn suppressed lats1 activation, promoted YAP nuclear translocation to up-regulate the expression of ferroptosis-driven proteins, TFRC and ACSL4, resulting in an imbalance of intracellular iron homeostasis, as well as promotion of lipid peroxidation, and thus inducement of ferroptosis in cisplatin-resistant EOC cells. Importantly, the in vivo results confirmed that RA induced ferroptosis and dramatically suppressed the growth of A2780/DDP transplanted tumours. Taken together, we revealed for the first time that VEPH1 is the direct target for RA, and ferroptosis contributes to RA-triggered anti-tumour effect on cisplatin-resistant EOC, which provides new insights into the therapeutic application of RA against EOC chemoresistance.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Periodontitis progresses more rapidly and severely in individuals with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), yet whether the integrated stress response (ISR) contributes to the progression of diabetic periodontitis has not been elucidated.This study aims to clarify the impact and mechanisms of growth differentiation factor 15 (GDF15) in diabetic periodontitis.We performed single-cell RNA sequencing on periodontal tissues and integrated the datasets with bidirectional Mendelian randomization to identify ISR-related alterations associated with impaired periodontal regeneration under diabetic conditions. Functional analyses were conducted in periodontal ligament stem cells (PDLSCs) subjected to diabetic-inflammatory conditions. Genetic deletion, antibody-based neutralization of GDF15, and ISR inhibition were used to evaluate therapeutic rescue effects in diabetic mice.We identify GDF15 as an important effector of ISR signaling in PDLSCs. T2DM induces sustained PERK-eIF2α activation accompanied by GDF15 induction, leading to translational repression, loss of proteostasis, and impaired osteogenic differentiation. Mechanistically, GDF15 silencing preserved BiP-PERK complex stability and attenuated downstream PERK-eIF2α activation under diabetic-inflammatory stress. Genetic ablation or pharmacologic neutralization of GDF15, as well as ISR inhibition, partially restores PDLSC proteostasis and bone-forming capacity, preserving periodontal tissue regenerative capacity in diabetic mice.These findings suggest that GDF15 contributes to ISR-mediated PDLSC dysfunction and impaired periodontal regeneration under diabetic conditions. Targeting pathological GDF15-ISR signaling may provide mechanistic insight for future strategies to improve periodontal regenerative outcomes in T2DM.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Growth differentiation factor 15 (GDF15) rises dramatically in early pregnancy and has been linked to nausea, vomiting, and hyperemesis gravidarum (HG). Significant challenges remain as GDF15 levels overlap between normal and complicated pregnancies, limiting its current clinical utility as a biomarker. Furthermore, early pregnancy GDF15 trajectories remain poorly characterised because most studies lack longitudinal sampling and rely on single or infrequent measurements.We analysed longitudinal serum GDF15 samples and Pregnancy Unique Quantification of Emesis 24 (PUQE-24) questionnaire scores from women enrolled in two early pregnancy clinical trials (PEP Cohort and VOMIT Study), using robust nonlinear statistical models to characterise trajectories. Analyses included uncomplicated (reference) pregnancies, early pregnancy loss (EPL), and HG.In normal pregnancies, GDF15 rose dramatically until week 7, and plateaued by week 9, with a sigmoidal model fit (P < 0.01). Pregnancies with female foetuses had approximately 19% higher GDF15 (P < 0.01), and the rise occurred one day later in male foetuses (P < 0.02). PUQE-24 scores in normal pregnancy peaked around week 8 and declined thereafter, aligning with the GDF15 plateau. In women with HG, GDF15 plateaued by the time of diagnosis, with higher levels compared to normal pregnancies in the early window (P < 0.05) but overlapping confidence intervals by week 8. EPL showed lower GDF15 levels and a slower rise, but also heterogeneity between types of EPL.GDF15 trajectories in early pregnancy diverge by outcome and foetal sex. These patterns clarify GDF15 dynamics in normal pregnancy and complications such as HG and EPL and define optimal sampling windows and tentative reference intervals. These findings support further evaluation of GDF15 as a biomarker to improve diagnosis and guide treatment.Independent Research Fund Denmark. The funder of the study had no role in study design, data collection, data analysis, data interpretation, or writing.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Glioblastoma (GBM) is highly aggressive and difficult to treat, partly due to the lack of in vitro models that faithfully recapitulate its biochemical and mechanobiological microenvironment. Synthetic hydrogels lack tumor-specific cues, while animal-derived dECM suffers from batch variability, limiting standardization.Here, we describe a GBM-derived dECM bioink formulated through mechanically stimulated 3D GBM culture within GelMA/HAMA hydrogels. By controlling the matrix stiffness to match GBM tissue and applying various compressive stresses that mimic intracranial solid stress, we identified a mechanobiological activation range that maximized secretion of GBM-associated factors, including GDF15, MMP2, and MMP9.The resulting bioink exhibited upregulated tumor-specific biochemical signals compared to hydrogel-only controls. Micromesh-bioprinted GBM constructs fabricated from this bioink demonstrated enhanced proliferation, invasion-related gene expression, and ECM remodeling. Co-culture with endothelial cells or fibroblasts further reconstructed stromal activation, paracrine signaling, and matrix dynamics associated with GBM progression and therapeutic resistance.This strategy establishes a reproducible, bioactive GBM-specific bioink platform for physiologically relevant 3D GBM modeling and GBM-on-chip applications.© The author(s).
Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) is a prevalent autoimmune thyroid disorder, typically triggers localized thyroid inflammation and systemic dyslipidemia, and progression to hypothyroidism. While growth differentiation factor 15 (GDF15) is recognized for its role in lipid metabolism and inflammatory diseases, its specific involvement in HT remains elusive.We conducted plasma metabolomic profiling in HT patients and matched healthy controls to identify altered metabolic pathways. Correlation analysis was performed between serum GDF15 and clinical indicators. In vitro thyroid follicular cell models and NaI-induced in vivo thyroid inflammatory models were applied with GDF15 overexpression, knockdown, recombinant protein and siRNA treatment to explore the functional role of GDF15.Plasma metabolomic profiling in HT patients revealed that differentially expressed metabolites are predominantly enriched in lipid metabolism pathways. GDF15 expression was increased by 1.98-fold in HT serum compared to controls (p < 0.001), and serum GDF15 levels were negatively correlated with thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH, R = -0.4943, p = 0.0040), aspartate aminotransferase (AST, R = -0.4506, p = 0.0238) and ultrasound attenuation parameter (UAP, R = -0.4894, p = 0.0071) in HT patients. Functional assays demonstrated that GDF15 overexpression tends to attenuate NaI-induced thyroid and systemic inflammation, relatively improving lipid profiles and reduces hepatic lipid deposition; however, GDF15 knockdown appeared to exacerbate these pathologies. Furthermore, recombinant GDF15 protein mitigates NaI-induced inflammatory responses in thyroid follicular cells, whereas GDF15 siRNA intensifies the inflammation.Given the limitations of the NaI-induced model and the lack of thyroid-specific genetic manipulation, these findings suggest a significant association between GDF15 and HT, though further research is required to establish definitive causality.Copyright © 2026 Yin, Sun, Gong, Shan and Zhao.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558428 is a review article
Most people with HIV (PWH) achieve immune recovery with antiretroviral therapy (ART); however, a clinically relevant subset, known as immune non-responders (INRs), fails to restore CD4+ T-cell counts despite sustained virological suppression and shows persistent immune dysfunction. Growth differentiation factor 15 (GDF-15), a stress-responsive cytokine associated with inflammation, aging, chronic disease, and multimorbidity, has not been characterized across distinct HIV viro-immunological phenotypes.We conducted an exploratory cross-sectional study including 80 PWH classified as ART-naïve individuals, virally suppressed INRs, elite controllers (ECs), and ART-treated immune responders (IRs), as well as 20 HIV-negative controls. Plasma GDF-15 levels were measured by immunoassay. Associations with log-transformed GDF-15 concentrations were assessed using multivariable linear regression including age, CD4+ T-cell nadir, and INR status.INRs showed the highest plasma GDF-15 levels (median, 1143.9 pg/ml), significantly exceeding those observed in ART-naïve individuals, ECs, IRs, and HIV-negative controls (all p ≤ 0.002). GDF-15 levels correlated positively with age, time since HIV diagnosis, and ART duration, and inversely with CD4+ T-cell nadir and the CD4/CD8 ratio (all p ≤ 0.001). In adjusted analysis, INR status remained independently associated with higher log-transformed GDF-15 levels (β = 0.271, 95% CI 0.062-0.480; p = 0.012), corresponding to 31.1% higher GDF-15 concentrations relative to non-INR participants.Plasma GDF-15 levels were higher in virally suppressed INRs than in other viro-immunological groups and remained independently associated with INR status after adjustment for selected covariates. These findings support further investigation of GDF-15 as a potential biomarker of incomplete immune recovery and residual biological stress in virally suppressed PWH. Prospective studies are warranted to validate its clinical and pathophysiological relevance.© 2026. The Author(s).
Sepsis-associated acute kidney injury (SAKI) lacks mechanism-based therapies, with upstream ferroptosis regulators undefined. This study investigated growth differentiation factor 15 (GDF15) as a suppressor of TLR4-MyD88-NF-κB signaling and associated ferroptosis. Differential GDF15 expression was identified by integrated analysis of three GEO datasets (GSE232404, GSE30718, GSE44925) and validated in SAKI patient kidney tissue (n = 30 vs. controls n = 25) and in kidneys from cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) mice. CLP mice received recombinant GDF15 (rmGDF15) (50 ng/kg ip); renal function (Scr/BUN), histology, kidney injury molecule-1 (KIM-1), serum TNF-α/IL-1β/IL-6 (ELISA), and 7-day survival were assessed. Oxidative stress/ferroptosis was quantified by DCFH-DA ROS imaging and kits (MDA, GSH, SOD, NADPH, Fe, GPX4 activity); TLR4-MyD88-NF-κB by qRT-PCR, Western blot, and Immunohistochemistry. LPS (1 μg/mL, 48 h)-stimulated HK-2 cells underwent shGDF15 lentiviral knockdown (puromycin 2 μg/mL) ± TAK242 (1 μM); viability (CCK-8), apoptosis (Annexin V/PI flow), cytokines (ELISA/qRT-PCR), ROS, ferroptosis markers, and pathway activation were evaluated. GDF15 was upregulated in SAKI datasets, patient kidney tissue, and CLP kidneys. GDF15 supplementation improved survival, lowered Scr/BUN and KIM-1, attenuated tubular injury, and reduced systemic proinflammatory cytokines. It decreased renal ROS, MDA and Fe while restoring GSH, SOD, NADPH, GPX4 activity, and SLC7A11 expression, and suppressed TLR4-MyD88-NF-κB signaling. In HK-2 cells, GDF15 silencing aggravated LPS-induced loss of viability, apoptosis, cytokine release, oxidative stress, and ferroptosis markers, all reversed by TAK242. In conclusion, GDF15 is a stress-inducible renoprotective factor that suppresses TLR4 signaling, ferroptosis markers, and inflammation in SAKI, suggesting exogenous administration as a promising therapeutic strategy.© 2026 International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.
The pathophysiological mechanisms of heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) are complex, with myocardial fibrosis being one of its core features, closely associated with diastolic dysfunction and poor prognosis. Sodium-glucose co-transporter 2 inhibitors (SGLT2i) have shown clinical benefits in patients with HFpEF; however, their effects on myocardial strain and diastolic function, as well as their relationship with the reduction of myocardial fibrosis, remain unclear.To evaluate the effects of long-term SGLT2i treatment (≥6 months) on left ventricular global longitudinal strain (GLS), diastolic function parameters, and serum fibrosis markers in patients with HFpEF, and to explore the potential mechanisms, through a retrospective cohort study.A total of 185 patients with HFpEF diagnosed at our hospital between June 2023 and January 2025 were consecutively enrolled and divided into an SGLT2i group (n = 93) and a control group (n = 92) based on whether they received SGLT2i treatment. Demographic data, echocardiographic parameters (GLS, LVEF, E/e', LAVI, LVMI, TRV), and serological indicators (NT-proBNP, PⅢNP, GDF-15) were collected at baseline and during follow-up (median 12 months). The primary endpoint was the change in GLS (ΔGLS); secondary endpoints included changes in diastolic function parameters, rates of biomarker change, and heart failure rehospitalization rate. Independent sample t-tests, Mann-Whitney U tests, and chi-square tests were used to compare intergroup differences; Pearson correlation analysis was performed to assess the correlation between ΔGLS and ΔPⅢNP, ΔNT-proBNP; multivariate linear regression analysis was used to identify independent influencing factors of GLS improvement; Kaplan-Meier method was used to evaluate rehospitalization-free survival.Baseline characteristics were balanced and comparable between the two groups (all P > 0.05). After 6 months of treatment, GLS improved significantly (ΔGLS: -2.49% ± 0.54% vs. -0.44% ± 0.52%, P < 0.001). NT-proBNP decreased by 30.4% vs. 9.7% (P < 0.001), PⅢNP by 15.1% vs. 5.8% (P < 0.001), and GDF-15 by 20.5% vs. 8.6% (P < 0.001). During the follow-up period, the heart failure rehospitalization rate in the SGLT2i group was significantly lower than that in the control group (24.7% vs. 55.4%, P < 0.001), and rehospitalization-free survival was significantly higher (Log-rank P < 0.001). In the overall population, ΔGLS was significantly positively correlated with ΔPⅢNP (r = 0.554, P < 0.001). Multivariate regression analysis showed that SGLT2i treatment was an independent predictor of GLS improvement (β= -2.05, P < 0.001).Long-term SGLT2i treatment can significantly improve myocardial strain, diastolic function, and clinical outcomes in patients with HFpEF, and its effects are closely related to the reduction of myocardial fibrosis markers, suggesting that the anti-fibrotic effect may be an important mechanism of SGLT2i cardioprotection.© 2026 Xu, Liu and Chen.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42552253 is a review article
The spleen harbors distinct macrophage subsets that support circulatory homeostasis and initiate immune responses, but the ontogeny and long-term dynamics of these populations remain incompletely understood. Here, we identified a transcriptionally and developmentally distinct CD163-expressing red pulp macrophage (CD163high RPM) population that arose from yolk sac progenitors and occupied a vascular-associated niche. Using fate-mapping models, we showed that CD163- RPMs were progressively replenished by monocytes during aging, whereas CD163high RPMs were mainly self-maintaining. During blood-stage malaria, CD163high RPMs were rapidly depleted, failed to recover despite parasite clearance, and were replaced by CD163- monocyte-derived RPMs. Single-cell RNA sequencing and genetic mouse models revealed that CD163 deficiency exacerbated structural disintegration of the marginal zone and selectively impaired marginal metallophilic macrophage (MMM) recovery, underscoring a CD163-dependent RPM-MMM crosstalk. This study reveals that the sustained loss of a specialized, yolk sac-derived CD163high RPM subset rewires splenic architecture and inter-macrophage crosstalk long after malaria resolution.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42557182
Primary pigmented nodular adrenocortical disease (PPNAD) is a rare cause of ACTH-independent Cushing syndrome (CS), occurring in isolation or as part of Carney complex (CNC); its phenotypic and molecular spectra remain incompletely defined.To characterize phenotypic variability, genotype-phenotype correlations, and molecular findings in PPNAD through integrated clinical, histopathological, and genetic analyses.We evaluated 18 index patients with PPNAD (15 with CNC, 3 isolated) and performed cascade genetic screening in relatives (20 variants-positive). Clinical, hormonal, imaging and histopathological data were reviewed; germline and somatic analyses employed targeted next-generation sequencing and copy-number assessment.Overt CS was present in 83% of index cases; 17% had cyclic hypercortisolism. Pathogenic or likely-pathogenic germline PRKAR1A variants were identified in 70.6% probands, including four novel variants; germline PRKACA duplications were detected in two cases. Cascade screening identified eight asymptomatic variant-positive relatives, in whom mild autonomous cortisol secretion (MACS) was observed. Somatic second-hit alterations in tumor tissue included PRKACA duplication, a PRKAR1A frameshift deletion, and 17q24.2 loss of heterozygosity. Histology most often showed classic PPNAD but also nonclassical patterns, expanding the morphological spectrum. Extra-adrenal manifestations were frequent (lentigines 61%, cardiac myxomas 22%).In this referral cohort, PPNAD/CNC displays marked phenotypic variability, incomplete penetrance with subclinical cortisol excess, and diverse molecular mechanisms, including novel germline variants and somatic second hits. Some cases lacked identifiable drivers, suggesting additional uncharacterized mechanisms. Systematic genetic screening and recognition of MACS are important for early diagnosis and long-term management.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of European Society of Endocrinology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Diabetic cataract is a common complication of diabetes, and current clinical management mainly relies on surgical intervention, with limited preventive strategies available. This study aimed to investigate whether liver-targeted low-intensity pulsed ultrasound (LIPUS) can prevent or delay the progression of diabetic cataract and to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms.A type 2 diabetes mellitus rat model was established using a high-fat diet combined with streptozotocin. Animals were divided into Normal, Model, and LIPUS groups. The LIPUS group received liver irradiation (200 mW/cm2, 10 min/day for 30 days). Lens opacity was assessed using slit-lamp examination, and blood glucose, branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs), and PRKAR1A expression were measured. In vitro experiments included co-culture of hepatocytes (AML12) and lens epithelial cells (SRA01/04) and siRNA transfection assays. Statistical analysis was performed using independent-samples t-tests and two-way ANOVA.LIPUS significantly delayed the onset and progression of diabetic cataract, reduced blood glucose levels and hepatic/serum BCAAs, and restored PRKAR1A expression in lens epithelial cells. LIPUS also inhibited epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) by upregulating E-cadherin and downregulating α-SMA. Knockdown of PRKAR1A reversed the inhibitory effect of LIPUS on EMT. Additionally, LIPUS improved liver and pancreatic histopathology without causing detectable tissue damage.LIPUS prevents diabetic cataract through dual mechanisms: improving glucose homeostasis and reducing BCAAs levels to restore PRKAR1A expression, thereby inhibiting EMT in lens epithelial cells. These findings suggest that LIPUS represents a safe and non-invasive strategy for diabetic cataract prevention and highlight BCAAs and glucose metabolism as potential therapeutic targets.This study demonstrates that targeted hepatic application of low-intensity pulsed ultrasound (LIPUS) effectively delays diabetic cataract progression in rats by suppressing lens epithelial cell EMT through dual mechanisms-directly lowering blood glucose and reducing hepatic BCAA production to restore PRKAR1A expression via the liver-lens axis-thereby offering a promising non-invasive preventive strategy that concurrently improves systemic glucose metabolism.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
[This retracts the article DOI: 10.1155/2019/3054820.].Copyright © 2026 International Journal of Endocrinology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Knowledge of the role of IgA isotype autoantibodies in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is lacking. We aimed to explore associations between serum IgA autoantibody profiles and SLE clinical phenotypes using an unbiased approach.1613 serum IgA autoantibodies were quantified in 60 patients with SLE using the i-Ome protein array, customised to also detect antibodies against three interferons (IFNα1, IFNω and IFNγ). Using clustering analysis, patients were grouped according to IgA autoantibody profiles; associations between clusters and clinical features were assessed using multinomial logistic regression. Associations between individual autoantibodies and clinical features were assessed via differential abundance analysis and supervised learning.Five patient clusters were identified; patients in cluster 4, characterised by antitransforming acidic coiled-coil-containing protein 1 (anti-TACC1) and anti-cAMP-dependent protein kinase type I-alpha regulatory subunit (anti-PRKAR1A) IgA profiles, were significantly more likely to be of Asian ethnicity and have lupus nephritis than those in clusters 1 and 3. Patients in cluster 4 and those in cluster 3, characterised by antiangiomotin-like protein 2 (anti-AMOTL2) IgA profiles, were significantly more likely to use immunosuppression than those in cluster 2. Analysis of individual autoantibodies revealed a significant association between antisignal transducing adaptor molecule 2 (anti-STAM2) and haematological disease activity. Targeted analysis demonstrated associations between several autoantibodies to IFN-associated proteins and SLE phenotypes, including ethnicity, disease activity, immunosuppression and organ damage.Clustering according to IgA autoantibody profiles suggests the presence of a subgroup of patients with SLE associated with Asian ethnicity, lupus nephritis and immunosuppression use. Additionally, a novel association between anti-STAM2 IgA and haematological disease was discovered. These findings demonstrate the pathophysiological relevance of IgA autoantibodies in SLE and suggest their potential as SLE biomarkers.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42449097 is a review article
Non-canonical metabolic functions of signaling molecules contribute to cancer plasticity and metastatic progression. Here, we demonstrated that PDE5a inhibitors, including sildenafil (Viagra), induced lysosomal cholesterol accumulation across multiple mouse and human cancer models, reducing cholesterol bioavailability and impairing cancer cell migration and metastasis. Cancer cells exhibited heightened sensitivity due to reduced lysosomal gene expression, rendering them particularly vulnerable to disrupted cholesterol trafficking. Mechanistically, elevated cGMP bound the lysosomal cholesterol transporter NPC1, impairing cholesterol export and phenocopying Niemann-Pick type C pathology. The resulting cholesterol depletion disrupted membrane lipid rafts and mitochondrial bioenergetics, thereby limiting metastatic capacity and triggering compensatory SREBP2 activation with increased cholesterol synthesis. Combining sildenafil with statins yields additive antimetastatic effects by concurrently blocking lysosomal cholesterol export and cholesterol biosynthesis. Consistently, analysis of digital health records demonstrated significantly improved survival among sildenafil users, with a dose-dependent additive benefit observed when combined with statins. Together, these findings identify increasing cGMP levels through PDE5a inhibition as a potential strategy to restrict metastasis and offer a potential mechanistic basis for the beneficial effects of sildenafil.
Carney complex (CNC) is a rare autosomal dominant syndrome characterized by multiple endocrine and non-endocrine tumors. In childhood, Cushing's syndrome due to primary pigmented nodular adrenocortical disease (PPNAD) may occur, while growth hormone (GH) hypersecretion before puberty is exceptionally rare.A 5-year-old girl presented with rapid weight gain, facial changes, hypertension, hypokalemic alkalosis, and kidney stones. Biochemical evaluation confirmed ACTH-independent Cushing's syndrome, and abdominal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed bilateral adrenal nodules consistent with PPNAD. Family history of endocrine tumors and cardiac myxomas suggested CNC, subsequently confirmed by genetic testing showing a mutation of the PRKAR1A gene in both the patient and her father. Bilateral adrenalectomy resolved hypercortisolism. At 8.6 years, the patient showed an accelerated growth velocity (+2.48 SDS) with elevated IGF-1 levels and lack of GH suppression during an oral glucose tolerance testing, despite a normal pituitary MRI. She remained asymptomatic apart from growth acceleration, which was carefully monitored during follow-up. Over 18 months accelerated growth persisted with pubertal progression, but IGF-1 levels eventually normalized and brain MRI remained stable; therefore, treatment for GH excess was deferred.This case highlights the importance of considering CNC in pediatric ACTH-independent Cushing's syndrome and underlines the role of genetic testing. It also demonstrates that GH hypersecretion may emerge earlier than current screening recommendations, underscoring the need for surveillance starting at the onset of puberty.Copyright © 2026 Pietropaolo, Festa, Rivetti, Messa, Di Iorio, Klain, Pellino, Cioffi, Ferrigno, Savanelli, Miraglia Del Giudice and Grandone.
Large cell calcifying Sertoli cell tumor (LCCSCT) is a rare testicular neoplasm, with only a small subset of clinically malignant tumors. We report a diagnostically challenging, clinically and histologically malignant LCCSCT in a 37-year-old man with a misleading initial presentation. The patient initially presented with testicular pain and swelling following trauma and was clinically diagnosed with epididymitis and hydrocele. Despite antibiotic therapy, symptoms progressed to include weight loss, night sweats, fever, diffuse pain, and lymphadenopathy. Computed tomography performed 2 months later demonstrated diffuse lymphadenopathy and enhancement of the right testicular tunica. Fine-needle aspiration and core biopsy of a left supraclavicular lymph node revealed a malignant neoplasm with S100 and SOX10 expression, raising concern for a neural crest-derived tumor. Next-generation sequencing identified a PRKAR1A mutation, further confounding the diagnosis. Extensive imaging failed to identify a primary tumor, and the patient showed no response to chemotherapy. Due to progressive disease and persistent testicular pain, a right orchiectomy was performed, revealing a hydrocele, thickened tunica, and an intratesticular mass. Histologic evaluation demonstrated malignant LCCSCT with cytologic atypia, necrosis, invasive growth, and metastatic disease. A focused literature review identified 22 previously reported clinically malignant LCCSCTs, highlighting variable clinical presentations, frequent S100 positivity, and overlapping immunohistochemical and molecular features that represent important diagnostic pitfalls. This case report emphasizes the need to consider metastatic LCCSCT in the differential diagnosis of metastatic S100/SOX10-positive tumors with PRKAR1A mutations, particularly when a testicular lesion is present or suspected.
Doxorubicin (DOX), a widely used chemotherapeutic agent for cancer patients, is associated with a significant risk of inducing atrial fibrillation (AF), a serious cardiac complication that impairs patient prognosis. However, the specific molecular and cellular mechanisms linking DOX cardiotoxicity to AF pathogenesis remain poorly understood.Following processing pharmacovigilance analysis of DOX-related AF events, we employed an integrative multi-omics strategy. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were first identified from the atrial transcriptomic dataset. Network toxicology was used to predict DOX targets, which were intersected with AF-related genes and DEGs to identify candidate targets. Functional analyses and protein-protein interaction network analysis was applied to pinpoint hub genes. Their predictive performance was validated in independent datasets. Gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) and immune infiltration profiling (CIBERSORT) were conducted to elucidate biological functions and immune context. Molecular docking simulations validated direct interactions between DOX and selected proteins. Finally, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) analysis resolved the cell-type-specific expression patterns of key targets.Functional analyses implicated the candidate genes in critical pathways. 5 hub genes were further selected from candidate genes using the MCC algorithm. Among 5 hub genes, we identified and validated the combination of CCR2, PDE5A, and CXCR2 showed high predictive accuracy for AF (mean AUC = 0.87), with identifying and validating CCR2 and PDE5A significantly and differentially expressed. GSEA linked CCR2 and PDE5A showed different pathways. Immune infiltration analysis revealed significant alterations in macrophages, monocytes, and T cell subsets in AF tissues. Molecular docking confirmed stable, high-affinity binding between DOX and both CCR2 and PDE5A (binding energy < -7 kcal/mol). Crucially, scRNA-seq analysis demonstrated that CCR2 and PDE5A were differentially expressed in atrial macrophages and fibroblasts respectively.This study suggests that CCR2 and PDE5A may serve as central mediators and potential therapeutic targets for DOX-induced AF, though these findings require experimental validation.Copyright: © 2026 Li et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
To 1) determine the expression and distribution of all PDE4 isozymes (A-D) along the anterior urethra, 2) culture fibroblasts and epithelial cells from healthy and strictured urethras, 3) investigate an in vitro model of anterior urethral stricture disease (aUSD), and 4) assess the therapeutic potential of phosphodiesterase-4 (PDE4) inhibitors and testosterone compared to paclitaxel.The presence and relative abundance of PDE4 isozymes (A-D) was confirmed using immunohistochemistry on 5 male cadaveric urethras. Human urethral fibroblasts (FBs) were cultured from healthy control urethras of patients undergoing vaginoplasty (n=3) and from idiopathic bulbar urethral strictures (L2S1E2) of patients undergoing urethroplasty (n=3). Epithelial cells (ECs) were cultured from a healthy control urethra and two urethral strictures. To investigate a model of aUSD, Control FBs were stimulated with TGFβ1 and compared to Stricture FBs on assays of cell proliferation and expression of genes relevant to aUSD pathophysiology. To test therapeutics, Stricture FBs were treated with the PDE4 inhibitor, roflumilast, testosterone (T), or paclitaxel and compared to Control FBs on the previously mentioned assays and cell viability.PDE4-A, B, and D were detected along the urethra and did not differ between regions. TGFβ1 altered proliferation and gene expression in a dose-dependent manner. Roflumilast and T preserved cell viability and proliferation and decreased expression of genes positively associated with aUSD.Urethral FBs and ECs can be cultured from healthy and strictured surgical specimens, enabling in vitro research. PDE4 inhibitors and T may be non-cytotoxic alternatives or additions to paclitaxel for aUSD.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Spirotetramat, a broad-spectrum tetronic acid insecticide, is widely used in agriculture because of its high insecticidal efficacy. However, its intensive and prolonged use may result in environmental accumulation and potential risks to non-target organisms. Although previous studies have demonstrated that spirotetramat induces developmental, reproductive, and hepatic toxicity in zebrafish, its neurotoxic effects on the brain and the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. Therefore, this study aimed to systematically evaluate the neurotoxicity of spirotetramat in zebrafish and to explore the potential molecular mechanisms involved.Histopathological examination, behavioral analysis, neurotransmitter quantification, transcriptomic profiling, and molecular docking were performed. Spirotetramat exposure caused obvious histopathological damage in the zebrafish brain, including vacuolation and cellular degeneration, and induced abnormal locomotor behaviors, as evidenced by increased swimming speed and distance, together with enhanced thigmotaxis, geotaxis, and scototaxis. In addition, spirotetramat disrupted neurotransmitter homeostasis, characterized by elevated DOPAC and HK levels and reduced Pun levels. Transcriptomic analysis revealed significant alterations in pathways related to visual transduction and neural regulation, accompanied by upregulated expression of key visual genes, including rho, pde6a, and saga. Molecular docking suggested potential interactions between spirotetramat and visual-related proteins in both zebrafish and humans. Overall, spirotetramat exerts significant neurotoxic effects in zebrafish, which may be associated with disruption of neurotransmitter homeostasis and visual-related signaling pathways. These findings provide new insights into the neurotoxic potential of spirotetramat and provide a basis for future experimental investigation of its ecological and potential human health risks.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Phosphodiesterase 4 (PDE4) facilitates the enzymatic breakdown of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) and cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP), through its four distinct isotypes, namely PDE4A to PDE4D, along with more than 25 splice variants. It plays a crucial role in cancer development, respiratory issues such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), autoimmune diseases like psoriasis, and neurological disorders such as Alzheimer's disease. Various methods are being developed to enhance clinical efficacy and reduce side effects. Some of these methods include drug delivery via inhalation and the development of non-emetic PDE4 inhibitors and mixed PDE inhibitors. These inhibitors offer several advantages over traditional formulations, including selectivity for specific inhibitors, targeted tissue distribution, and oral effectiveness. All these efforts have led to the emergence of novel PDE4 inhibitors, with some having progressed to clinical trial stages and others approved as medications. This review summarises PDE4 inhibitors currently in clinical trials, highlighting their therapeutic potential, limitations, and future prospects.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42487951 is a review article
Alcoholic dementia (AlD) is a severe neurological disorder with no effective treatment. Development of pan-phosphodiesterase-4 (PDE4) inhibitors for clinical treatment of neurological conditions has been hampered by emetic side effects primarily mediated by PDE4D, one of the four subtypes of PDE4. Although PDE4A was shown to be upregulated by chronic alcohol exposure, its therapeutic relevance to AlD remains unclear.A stable mouse model of AlD was established in 3-month-old 3xTg-AD mice using a free-choice two-bottle protocol (25% alcohol) for 19 weeks. Mice received either rolipram injections for 3 weeks or PDE4A knockdown for 6 weeks. Cognitive function was assessed using the Morris water maze, novel object recognition, and Y-maze tests. Hippocampal neuropathology-including Aβ deposition, synaptic integrity, Tau phosphorylation (at Ser214/Ser404), and neuronal apoptosis-was evaluated by immunofluorescence or immunohistochemistry. Changes in key proteins of the cAMP/PKA/CREB signaling pathway were analyzed by Western blotting.This study demonstrated that selectively targeting PDE4A rescued cognitive and neuropathological deficits in a validated mouse model of AlD. Behavioral tests showed that PDE4A knockdown significantly improved spatial memory and cognition in the Morris water maze, novel object recognition, and the Y maze in the AlD mice. Pathological analysis revealed that PDE4A knockdown reduced amyloid-beta (Aβ) deposition and phosphorylated Tau levels. Furthermore, it restored synaptic integrity, as evidenced by the upregulation of PSD95 and Synaptophysin, enhanced dendritic complexity, and increased spine density, while also exerting neuroprotective effects by suppressing neuronal apoptosis in AlD mice. Mechanistically, the therapeutic benefits of PDE4A knockdown were mediated through the reactivation of the critically impaired cAMP/PKA/CREB signaling pathway, leading to elevated cAMP levels, increased PKA activity, and enhanced phosphorylation of CREB.Our findings established PDE4A as one of the key AlD pathological drivers and identified its selective inhibition as a novel and promising therapeutic strategy for AlD, offering a viable approach to circumvent the adverse effects associated with broad-spectrum PDE4 inhibition.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the CINP.
MiR-146b-5p, a disease-responsive miRNA with circulatory stability, has been implicated in multiple pathologies, but its role in acute myocardial infarction (AMI) remains unexplored. The objective of this study was to explore the role of miR-146b-5p in AMI.Serum from 103 AMI patients and 95 healthy controls was analyzed via qRT-PCR to quantify miR-146b-5p/PRKAR2A expression, with ROC curves evaluating diagnostic performance and correlation analyses linking miR-146b-5p levels to clinical indicators of AMI severity. Prognostic associations were systematically assessed using Kaplan-Meier curves and COX regression models. In vitro ox-LDL-induced HCAEC injury models employed CCK-8 assays, flow cytometry, Caspase-3 activity measurements, ELISA, and oxidative stress assays to elucidate cellular mechanisms. Dual-luciferase reporter and Western blot assays assessed the relation between miR-146b-5p and PRKAR2A.Upregulated miR-146b-5p expression was observed in AMI compared with the HC group, showing diagnostic value and correlation with hs-CRP, CK-MB, cTnI, LVEF, and Killip grade. Higher miR-146b-5p expression predicted poor prognosis of AMI. In ox-LDL-induced HCAECs, miR-146b-5p inhibition reduced apoptosis, inflammation (IL-1β, TNF-α), and endothelial dysfunction marker levels (ET-1, vWF), while promoting proliferation. PRKAR2A was downregulated in ox-LDL and confirmed as a miR-146b-5p target, with its knockdown reversing the protective effects of miR-146b-5p inhibition on ox-LDL-induced HCAEC injury.Upregulated miR-146b-5p, which correlated with AMI severity, demonstrated diagnostic and prognostic potential for AMI. It promoted AMI progression by aggravating endothelial injury under ox-LDL induction through suppressing PRKAR2A.© 2026. The Author(s).
Spatially confined β-adrenergic receptor-cAMP nanodomain signaling depends on scaffolded protein-protein interactions (PPIs), yet converting such nanointerfaces into cell-active disruptor peptides remains challenging. Here, we identify a previously unrecognized phosphodiesterase 4A (PDE4A)-filamin A complex in human cardiac tissue that is disrupted in dilated cardiomyopathy. To target this interaction, we developed a nanodomain-resolved AlphaFold3 workflow integrating interface-recurrence filtering, orthogonal docking, and peptide-binding site inference to define a tractable binding region. This approach identified a filamin A docking sequence spanning R2520-H2528, which was optimized to RLVSNHSLH and rendered cell-permeant by N-terminal polyarginine tagging. In ventricular cardiomyocytes, the peptide reduced PDE4A-filamin A proximity and selectively attenuated β-adrenergic cAMP signaling in cytosolic and sarcolemmal compartments, measured by FRET biosensors. This work establishes a potential transferable strategy for translating predicted scaffolded PPI nanointerfaces into functional disruptor peptides and highlights compartmentalized signaling complexes as actionable targets for selective cellular modulation.
Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is an inherited retinal disease (IRD), whereby each affected individual typically harbours pathogenic variants in a single causative gene, yet the disorder exhibits marked genetic heterogeneity, with more than 100 genes reported to underlie RP. Dual-gene defect constellations are rare but may modify disease presentation, complicating diagnosis, prognosis and therapeutic decision-making. This study aimed to characterize the clinical and genetic effects of dual-gene variants in patients with RP as the lead diagnosis.We retrospectively analysed 10 affected individuals and their parents from eight families with confirmed dual-genotype constellations in RP-associated genes. Ophthalmic evaluation included best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), visual fields, multimodal imaging, electroretinography (ERG) and full-field stimulus threshold testing (FST). Genetic analyses comprised whole genome sequencing and targeted segregation studies; for the latter, long-read sequencing was used to clarify cis/trans variant configuration.Genes involved were CEP290, RCBTB1, ABCA4, PDE6A, CRB1, EYS, PRPH2, MYO7A, RS1, USH2A, MT-TL1, RHO and BEST1, in various genotype constellations. Phenotypes ranged from early-onset severe rod-cone dystrophy to late-onset mild RP, largely reflecting gene-specific effects (e.g. EYS > CRB1 > PRPH2) and their interactions. Long-read sequencing revealed ABCA4 variants in cis, explaining asymptomatic carriers and informing gene therapy eligibility. Functional retinal testing highlighted gene-specific patterns, including macular preservation in EYS-driven RP and Best disease-associated macular changes.Dual-gene variant constellations contribute to heterogeneous RP phenotypes. Integrating comprehensive genetic analysis with detailed clinical assessment is critical to define gene-specific contributions, inform prognosis, guide clinical management and determine eligibility for emerging gene-based therapies.© 2026 The Author(s). Acta Ophthalmologica published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica Foundation.
Axon regeneration is the key to repairing spinal cord injury. Circadian rhythm plays regulatory roles in axonal regeneration. The endogenous molecular clock serves as the molecular basis for the generation and precise maintenance of circadian rhythms. CLOCK is one of the most core transcription factors in the endogenous molecular clock. However, the role of CLOCK in axon regeneration has so far remained elusive. Therefore, this study explored how the circadian gene clocka regulates the zebrafish central neuronal Mauthner cells (M-cells) axon regeneration. Using the M-cell axonal regeneration model, we found that M-cell axons exhibited circadian-phase-dependent regeneration after two-photon laser ablation, while in the clocka mutant, the circadian-phase-dependent regeneration of M-cells was deprived and their regenerative ability was inhibited. Subsequently, a combination of single-cell electroporation, single-cell capture, transcriptome sequencing, and Rolipram treatment demonstrated that clocka is required for M-cell axonal regeneration and regulates axonal regeneration through phosphodiesterase pde4a-cAMP axis. Together, these findings demonstrate that endogenous molecular clock gene clocka regulates zebrafish central M-cell axonal regeneration via pde4a-cAMP pathway and provide new insights into rhythmic regulation for central nerve repair.© 2026. The Author(s).
Feed efficiency (FE) in dairy cattle is influenced by both genetic and environmental factors, including diet composition. Differential expression (DE) of mRNA isoforms was analyzed using publicly available RNA-Seq data to investigate alternative splicing associated with residual feed intake (RFI) under control and High-Concentrate (HC) diets in Holstein and Jersey cattle. Low-RFI (efficient) animals exhibited more extensive transcriptomic responses than their high-RFI counterparts (207 vs. 103 DE isoforms in Holstein; 183 vs. 90 in Jersey), reflecting greater isoform-specific regulation. Under the control diet, DE isoforms were enriched for transcriptional regulation and cellular function pathways, while the HC diet showed a balanced pattern of up- and downregulation affecting growth, signaling, and metabolic pathways. Overlap between DE isoforms and milk production QTLs was characterized based on functional annotations. In Holsteins, overlap decreased from 66.87% under control to 49.69% under HC, while in Jersey, it increased from 45.02% under control to 64.64% under HC. Comparison between low- and high-RFI animals showed a reduction in reproductive QTL overlap in both breeds: Holstein decreased from 29.65% to 18.69%, respectively, and Jersey decreased from 13.27% to 3.50%, respectively. In Holsteins, the mRNA isoforms WDR33_6 and PRKAR2A_3 were identified as DE transcripts associated with dietary treatment and RFI status suggesting potential roles in FE and metabolic adaptation. As an exploratory study, these results indicate mRNA isoform-level differences associated with RFI and dietary responses in Holstein and Jersey cattle. The observed patterns may reflect contrasts between reproductive and milk production-related biological processes, providing initial insights into candidate features associated with productivity and sustainability.© 2026, The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. on behalf of the American Dairy Science Association®. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
To report the clinical phenotype, multimodal imaging findings, and electrophysiologic characteristics of a 62-year-old patient with achromatopsia harboring two heterozygous PDE6C (NM_006204.3) variants: a variant of uncertain significance, c.2248G > C (p.Asp750His), and a likely pathogenic variant, c.2304_2305delAA (p.Asp770Ter).The patient underwent comprehensive ophthalmic evaluation, including best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), slit-lamp examination, dilated fundus examination, spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT), fundus autofluorescence (FAF), and full-field electroretinography (ffERG) according to ISCEV standards. Genetic testing was performed using whole-exome sequencing (WES).BCVA was 20/300 in both eyes at the most recent visit. Ten months earlier, BCVA was 20/150 in the right eye and 20/100 in the left eye. Fundus examination demonstrated bilateral central macular atrophic lesions with corresponding autofluorescence abnormalities. SD-OCT revealed irregular attenuation and focal loss of the ellipsoid zone with relative preservation of the retinal pigment epithelium. ffERG showed severe cone dysfunction, characterized by markedly reduced light-adapted single-flash responses and near-extinguished 30 Hz flicker responses, with relatively preserved rod-mediated scotopic responses. Genetic testing identified two heterozygous PDE6C variants: a likely pathogenic frameshift variant (c.2304_2305delAA; p.Asp770Ter), predicted to result in premature truncation of the protein, and a missense variant (c.2248G > C; p.Asp750His) located in the catalytic phosphodiesterase domain, not previously reported, and currently classified as a variant of uncertain significance.This case expands the phenotypic spectrum of PDE6C-associated retinal disease by describing a severe cone dysfunction phenotype with clinical features consistent with achromatopsia. In the context of an autosomal recessive condition, the presence of a likely pathogenic variant alongside a variant of uncertain significance, combined with a consistent clinical and electrophysiologic phenotype, supports a possible biallelic disease mechanism. These findings contribute to emerging genotype-phenotype correlations and may aid in interpreting rare PDE6C variants.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Inflammation is a key driver of atrophic Age-Related Macular Degeneration (aAMD), and also plays a role in Inherited Retinal Degenerations (IRDs), two major causes of irreversible visual loss. We previously demonstrated that the C-C chemokine receptor type 1 (CCR1) is upregulated in monocytes from AMD patients, and that it mediates the recruitment of neurotoxic macrophages and activates Müller glial cells in rodent model of photic retinal injury. Here we report that CCR1 is expressed in Müller glia in eyes affected by AMD and that variants in CCR1 are potentially associated with the rate of macular atrophy progression in AMD. We also show that Ccr1 deletion is associated with reduced inflammation, and with rescue of photoreceptor integrity and function in Crb1rd8/rd8 mice and in Pde6brd10 mice, two models of genetically-driven retinal degeneration. Finally, we demonstrate that treatment with small molecule CCR1 antagonists delayed photoreceptor loss in Pde6brd10 mice. These data suggest that CCR1 is a mediator of retinal inflammation and injury in different forms of retinal degeneration, and that CCR1 may serve as a novel therapeutic target for atrophic AMD and IRDs.© 2026. The Author(s).
Retinitis pigmentosa is a hereditary neurodegenerative disease characterized by gradual photoreceptor loss, often leading to blindness. The murine model Pde6brd10/rd10 (rd10) reproduces key features of retinitis pigmentosa (RP) and is widely used to evaluate therapeutic strategies. Anandamide is an endocannabinoid ligand degraded by fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH), whose levels have been shown to be increased in retinopathies. In this study, endocannabinoid signaling was pharmacologically augmented in rd10 mice to prolong photoreceptor survival. FAAH is present both in rd10 and C57Bl/6 retinas, with no differences in expression by qPCR or immunofluorescence analysis. To increase levels of endocannabinoid ligands URB597 (FAAH inhibitor), was administered daily by intraperitoneal injection (0.3 mg/kg), from P13 to P18 or P24. At P19, URB597 increased peripheral photoreceptor cell number by 35% and ONL thickness by 27%, with no effect in the central retina. At P25, peripheral photoreceptor number increased by 28%, although ONL thickness was unchanged. FAAH inhibition reduced TUNEL-positive cells in the peripheral retina by 50% and 53% at P19 and P25, respectively. No changes to reactive gliosis markers and microglia cells following FAAH inhibition were observed by assessing GFAP fluorescence intensity and Iba-1+ cell counts either in central or peripheral retina in both ages studied. Treatment with URB597 led to a 30% reduction in reactive oxygen species content at P19. Together, these data indicate a neuroprotective role of the endocannabinoid system in the context of photoreceptor degeneration in retinitis pigmentosa.© 2026. The Author(s).
Orthodontic tooth movement (OTM) is a complex process involving periodontal tissue remodeling, and safe strategies to accelerate OTM remain a research focus. DMXAA (Vadimezan), a non-toxic immune-modulating drug with established clinical trial data, stimulates the secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines potentially relevant to OTM, which involves immune-mediated bone remodeling.A murine OTM model was established in C57BL/6 mice, receiving local subperiosteal injections of DMXAA. Tooth movement distance, bone volume fraction, and osteoclast parameters were quantified via Micro-CT and histology. The mechanism was dissected using RNA-sequencing of bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs), sEV proteomics, and functional osteoclastogenesis assays. Macrophage depletion and Rab13 knockdown models were employed to verify specificity.Local DMXAA administration significantly enhance orthodontic tooth movement and rate in mice under orthodontic force application, accompanied by reduced alveolar bone volume and increased osteoclast numbers on the compressive force side. DMXAA induced macrophage accumulation at the force-applied site, polarizing them toward M1-like pro-inflammatory phenotypes characterized by high secretion of CCL5 and CXCL10. Furthermore, small extracellular vesicles derived from DMXAA-treated macrophages, which were enriched with Rab13 protein, contributed to osteoclast fusion and maturation, thereby accelerating OTM.DMXAA accelerates OTM through a dual mechanism: chemokine-driven osteoclast differentiation and sEV-Rab13-mediated osteoclast fusion. These findings highlight the Rab13-sEV axis as a novel therapeutic target for modulating the periodontal microenvironment and enhancing orthodontic efficiency. Our results elucidated a novel mechanism by which DMXAA accelerated orthodontic tooth movement and suggested it as a potential therapeutic agent to optimize orthodontic treatment.© 2026. The Author(s).
Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is a genetically heterogeneous group of inherited retinal degenerations with primary degeneration of rod photoreceptors followed by secondary cone loss. We investigated whether downregulating Nrl (neural retina leucine zipper), a key transcription factor specifying rod fate, can reprogram rods into a more resilient state. In a transgenic NrlN/N mouse in which Nrl was markedly downregulated, the rod phenotype became more like a rod precursor, particularly in the inferior retina. Crossing NrlN/N mice with two rod degeneration models, rd1 (Pde6brd1/rd1) and rhodopsin P23H knock-in (RhoP23H/P23H) mice, showed significantly improved photoreceptor survival in double-mutant mice. In addition, AAV-mediated delivery of shRNA targeting Nrl mRNA substantially enhanced photoreceptor survival in rd10 (Pde6brd10/rd10) mice. These findings demonstrate that downregulation of Nrl reprograms rods and confers broad resistance to degeneration across multiple RP models. AAV-mediated Nrl knockdown represents a promising mutation-independent therapeutic strategy for autosomal recessive and dominant forms of RP.
Cone-rod dystrophy (CORD) and achromatopsia (ACHM) are inherited retinal dystrophies for which conventional adeno-associated virus (AAV) gene augmentation has important limitations, particularly in autosomal-dominant gain-of-function CORD and recessive ACHM. Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats (CRISPR)/CRISPR-associated protein 9 (Cas9) offers the potential for one-time, mutation-specific gene correction or allele ablation. This systematic review summarizes preclinical evidence on CRISPR/Cas9-based approaches for CORD and ACHM, focusing on editing efficiency, phenotypic rescue, and safety.This review followed PRISMA guidelines. PubMed, Google Scholar, and ScienceDirect were searched through June 2025 for original experimental studies using CRISPR/Cas9 in CORD or ACHM animal models or human-derived cell lines. Dual independent screening and data extraction were performed. Outcomes related to editing efficiency, structural or functional rescue, and safety were synthesized narratively.Four studies were included: three targeting CORD and one targeting ACHM. In vivo studies used AAV-delivered SaCas9 to disrupt GUCY2D (or murine orthologs) in mouse and macaque photoreceptors, achieving approximately 8-45% on-target editing in mice and approximately 13% in macaques. Although ablation alone reduced retGC1 expression, it did not improve retinal function; however, a dual-AAV "ablate-and-replace" strategy preserved outer nuclear layer thickness for up to 24 weeks in CORD6 mice. In vitro, PROM1 correction in patient-derived iPSCs restored CD133 expression, and SpCas9-HiFi-mediated PDE6C correction in ACHM iPSCs achieved approximately 80% editing efficiency while preserving pluripotency and showing no detectable off-target effects. Safety data were limited, with immune responses assessed in only one primate study.CRISPR/Cas9 shows promising preclinical efficacy for CORD and ACHM, particularly allele-specific ablate-and-replace strategies for CORD and precise HDR-based correction for ACHM. However, the available evidence remains limited, underscoring the need for expanded safety assessment, non-human primate studies, and standardized functional outcomes measures before clinical translation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Background: Non-syndromic retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is characterized by rod-cone degeneration, resulting in night blindness, visual field constriction, and eventual blindness. Recessively inherited RP is predominantly exacerbated in consanguineous populations, such as Pakistan. This study aimed to perform the genetic analysis of sixteen non-syndromic RP segregating Pakistani families, and to summarize the mutation spectrum of non-syndromic RP in our population by reviewing related literature. Methods: We screened 16 non-syndromic RP families using targeted capture panel sequencing of 344 genes related to inherited retinal dystrophies. Variants were prioritized based on rarity (minor allele frequency (MAF) < 0.001 in the gnomAD South Asian subset), pathogenicity assessments using ACMG/AMP criteria, and REVEL scores (>0.5). Candidate variants were validated for familial segregation through Sanger sequencing. Results: We identified 15 distinct variants across 14 genes associated with non-syndromic retinitis pigmentosa, comprising 6 missense, 7 nonsense, 1 frameshift, and 2 splice-site variants, including 4 novel variants, i.e., p.(Val220Met) and p.(Pro1282SerfsTer2) in RP1, 1 each in PDE6B (c.2021+5G>A), and PRCD p.(Ser38Ter). Homozygosity predominated, underscoring the impact of consanguinity on the burden of autosomal recessive disease in the present cohort, while the CERKL disease-causing mutation, i.e., p.(Arg257Ter), recurred in two families. Conclusions: This study expands Pakistan's non-syndromic RP mutational spectrum by identifying novel variants in RP1, PDE6B, and PRCD, alongside recurrent CERKL and RHO mutations of the local population. The literature review suggests that RP1, TULP1, and PDE6B are among the most mutated genes in our population, supporting the value of population-specific genetic panels to enhance diagnostics and carrier screening.
Inherited retinal degenerative diseases (IRDs), including retinitis pigmentosa (RP) and Leber congenital amaurosis (LCA), cause progressive vision impairment due to photoreceptor degeneration. We previously demonstrated the protective effects of reserpine in models of CEP290-LCA and in the female Rhodopsin-P23H rat model of autosomal dominant RP. Given that reserpine is limited by side effects, we expanded our compound screen using retinal organoids from the rd16 mouse model of CEP290-LCA to include structurally diverse small molecules that may converge on proteostasis pathways. Follow-up evaluations in Rhodopsin-P23H rats, human CEP290-LCA retinal organoids, and rd10 mice (a model of PDE6B-RP) identified halofantrine as the most promising molecule, conferring strong protection to both rod and cone photoreceptors and demonstrating therapeutic potential across the divergent IRD models tested. Transcriptome analysis revealed a convergent molecular response to halofantrine across these models, primarily through upregulation of oxidative phosphorylation and ribosomal processes. Notably, halofantrine elicited significant improvements in retinal function, as assessed by electroretinography, despite pharmacokinetically limited and transient retinal exposure after subconjunctival injection in Rhodopsin-P23H rats. Our studies highlight the potential of halofantrine as a gene-independent therapy and suggest that it may be developed for ocular delivery via eye drops for the treatment of IRDs.
Chalkbrood is a fungal disease caused by the infection of honeybee larvae by Ascosphaera apis. Currently, effective methods for controlling chalkbrood are lacking. Fungal non-coding RNAs play a critical role in enhancing infectivity and pathogenicity, making them potential high-efficacy targets for suppressing A. apis infection. Based on full-length transcriptome data comparing spores and mycelium of A. apis, and the midgut of honeybees (Apis mellifera) infected by A. apis, a specifically expressed long non-coding RNA 6140 (lnc6140) in A. apis was identified. The study demonstrated that lnc6140 in A. apis positively regulates ATPase expression through milR5658-x, thereby influencing pathogen infectivity and chalkbrood development. In this study, after A. apis infection, the expression levels of lnc6140, milR5658-x, and ATPase increased over the infection period. Interference with lnc6140 suppressed the expression of genes associated with A. apis infection and proliferation-Chi3, GriF, AdmB, Pkia, Ste11, and Dmap1-and significantly inhibited chalkbrood incidence. Dual-luciferase assays demonstrated that lnc6140 positively regulates the expression of milR5658-x, and milR5658-x positively regulates the expression of ATPase in A. apis. Similarly, reducing the RNA level of milR5658-x also significantly inhibited chalkbrood incidence. Concurrent reduction of lnc6140 and milR5658-x levels suppressed ATPase expression and markedly decreased chalkbrood occurrence. The result indicated that lnc6140 of A. apis plays a key role in pathogen infection by regulating the milR5658-x-ATPase axis. Suppressing lnc6140 and milR5658-x of A. apis may serve as a crucial strategy for reducing chalkbrood incidence. These findings provide new candidate targets for understanding the pathogenic mechanisms of A. apis and for the prevention and control of chalkbrood.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is a leading cause of inherited blindness, yet current gene supplementation strategies are limited by heterogeneous responses, with more than 40% of patients showing insufficient rescue. Moreover, oxidative stress constitutes a defining pathological feature of RP and critically impairs the efficacy of gene therapy. Consistently, transcriptomic and ultrastructural analyses of Pde6brd10/rd10 (rd10) retinas revealed early and progressive dysregulation of oxidative stress-related pathways and photoreceptor degeneration. To overcome this barrier, we engineered an adeno-associated virus (AAV) vector covalently conjugated with a catalytic G-quadruplex-hemin DNAzyme (CoG4) via genetic code expansion and click chemistry. This design enables synchronized delivery of CoG4 and therapeutic Pde6b into photoreceptors, where CoG4 directly scavenges excess ROS and restores mitochondrial homeostasis, thereby creating a favorable microenvironment for gene supplementation. In rd10 mice, AAV-CoG4 treatment resulted in sustained expression of Pde6b, preservation of photoreceptor morphology, restoration of rod and cone function as evidenced by electroretinogram, and improved visual behavior, outperforming AAV or CoG4 monotherapies. Our findings establish oxidative stress as a major barrier to retinal gene therapy and demonstrate a dual-function platform that couples microenvironment modulation with genetic correction, offering a broadly applicable strategy for treating degenerative retinal diseases.
Oral lichen planus (OLP) is a chronic inflammatory mucosal disease with a risk of malignant transformation and limited long-term therapeutic options. Paeoniflorin (PF), a natural monoterpene glycoside, exhibits multi-target anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory properties, but its systematic mechanisms against OLP remain elusive.We employed an integrative framework combining network pharmacology, transcriptomic cross-validation, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. Public databases were mined to identify PF targets and OLP-related genes. Core targets were prioritized via protein-protein interaction (PPI) network topology and further validated using OLP tissue transcriptomic datasets (GSE52130 and GSE213349). Functional enrichment analyses were performed, followed by structural validation of PF-target binding via molecular docking and 100-ns MD simulations.Sixty-eight overlapping targets between PF and OLP were identified. PPI network analysis and transcriptomic cross-validation pinpointed eight core targets: AKT1, IL6, MMP9, STAT3, TNF, IL1B, PTGS2, and PDE4B. Mechanistically, these targets converged on the TNF, PI3K-Akt, and MAPK signaling pathways, regulating inflammatory response, cell migration, apoptosis, and protease activity at membrane microdomain and extracellular matrix interfaces. Molecular docking showed PF binding affinities comparable to or exceeding reference inhibitors (e.g., STAT3: -9.27 vs. Stattic -9.16 kcal/mol). MD simulations confirmed stable conformational binding, with the STAT3 and PDE4B complexes exhibiting the most balanced rigidity and lowest ligand RMSD (0.09-0.10 nm).This study provides a systems-level map of PF's multi-target intervention in OLP, highlighting a composite anti-inflammatory-immune reprogramming-pro-repair axis centered on core inflammatory kinases and proteases. The structural validation of key targets establishes a mechanistic rationale for PF as a promising therapeutic candidate, warranting further preclinical and clinical development for OLP management.Copyright © 2026 Zhao, Chen and Yu.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a complex neurodegenerative condition marked by a gradual loss of cognitive function, impaired synaptic signalling, and sustained neuroinflammatory responses. Among the molecular pathways associated with disease progression, cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) signalling, plays a crucial factor in disruption of cellular homeostasis. Phosphodiesterase-4 (PDE4), especially the PDE4B isoform, controls intracellular cAMP levels in neuronal and glial cells, which affects inflammatory signalling and synaptic plasticity in the brain. Therefore, selectively targeting PDE4B is a novel approach to identify the small molecule's therapeutic activity to restore the cAMP signalling, with parallel regulation of the dose-limiting side effects. GSK356278 and Rolipram are the known PDE4B modulators, which have been considered for the current study to generate significant pharmacophoric features and execute drug design as CNS-active PDE4B inhibitors. Six heterocyclic derivatives were designed and synthesised by altering the core scaffold in order to maximise hydrophobicity, CNS permeability, and Q-pocket engagement without depending on direct Zn2+ or Mg2+ coordination. Among these, molecule VCHH-19 and VCPH-19 demonstrated significant CNS compatibility and good binding stability. PC12 cell lines were chosen to verify the in vitro neuroprotective response, and the Drosophila model for in vivo for AD assessment. All of these results indicated the significance of pyridine-based heterocycles molecules as potential candidates for PDE4B-targeted AD treatment.This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42490950 is a review article
Preferential phosphodiesterase 4B (PDE4B) inhibition with nerandomilast has demonstrated attenuation of forced vital capacity decline in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and progressive pulmonary fibrosis. Because PDE4 enzymes regulate cAMP-dependent inflammatory and endothelial signalling, class-level PDE4 inhibition has been consistently linked to vascular-immune pathways. Whether preferential PDE4B inhibition reproduces these effects remains uncertain.To map the available mechanistic and translational literature on extrapulmonary or systemic biological effects of PDE4/PDE4B inhibition and to place nerandomilast trial findings within that framework without inferring clinical efficacy outside pre-specified trial outcomes.We performed a the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses extension for Scoping Reviews informed scoping review of PubMed/MEDLINE from database inception to 1 March 2026. Eligible studies included pre-clinical, translational and clinical reports addressing endothelial, immune, microvascular or organ-level effects of PDE4/PDE4B modulation. Evidence was charted and narratively synthesised rather than quantitatively pooled.71 studies were included. Experimental data (primarily derived from class-level PDE4 inhibition) consistently link these pathways to modulation of endothelial permeability, leukocyte-endothelial adhesion, thromboinflammatory signalling, and macrophage resolution programmes across pulmonary and extrapulmonary models. However, most extrapulmonary evidence derives from class-level PDE4 biology rather than nerandomilast-specific investigations, and clinical evidence for extrapulmonary benefit in fibrotic lung disease remains indirect.Because PDE4 enzymes regulate cAMP-dependent inflammatory and endothelial signalling, class-level PDE4 inhibition has been consistently linked to modulation of vascular-immune pathways. Whether preferential PDE4B inhibition reproduces these effects in humans remains to be established. While at present, extrapulmonary clinical benefit in fibrotic lung disease remains unproven, future studies should prospectively evaluate systemic biomarkers and organ-level outcomes rather than relying on post hoc interpretation of numerical signals.Copyright ©The authors 2026.
Metabolic syndrome (MetS) is a cluster of interconnected cardiometabolic risk factors with a substantial but incompletely characterized genetic basis. To identify novel genetic determinants, particularly rare variants, we here conducted a large-scale exome-wide association study in 367,188 individuals from the UK Biobank (78,300 cases and 288,888 controls). Single-variant analysis identified 74 independent loci, three of which correspond to rare variants in CARMIL2, ACTR6, and PLA2G12A without prior documented MetS association. Furthermore, gene-based burden testing pinpointed three key genes: ABCA1, APOC3, and PDE3B. Integrative follow-up analyses - including colocalization across molecular traits (mRNA, protein, microbiota) and association testing with proteomic/metabolic biomarkers - collectively suggest that these rare variants influence MetS susceptibility through coordinated effects on protein expression, metabolite concentrations, and microbial abundance. Importantly, ABCA1, APOC3, and PDE3B are established or promising drug targets for related metabolic disorders. In summary, our study not only elucidates the significant contribution of rare variants to MetS susceptibility, distinct from common variant signals, but also highlights the central role of lipid metabolism pathways, thereby nominating plausible targets for therapeutic intervention. Clinical trial number:Not applicable.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Jiao-tai-wan (JTW) is a classic formula for Heart-Kidney Disharmony insomnia, yet its mechanism in hippocampal neurons remains unclear.To investigate whether JTW ameliorates insomnia-induced hippocampal neuronal damage by inhibiting ferroptosis and elucidate the underlying mechanisms.UPLC-Q-TOF/MS analyzed JTW constituents. Network pharmacology and molecular docking predicted core targets. A mouse insomnia model was established using PCPA combined with MMPM. Behavioral tests, pathological examinations, and ferroptosis markers were evaluated. In vitro, HT22 cells underwent IKE-induced ferroptosis to validate Jiao-tai-wan drug-containing serum (JTWS) and the PDE4D inhibitor Zatolmilast (ZAT).413 compounds were identified in JTW, with 47 predicted to penetrate the blood-brain barrier. Network pharmacology, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics simulations predicted PDE4D and BDNF as core targets. In vivo, JTW ameliorated cognitive deficits, attenuated hippocampal neuronal damage, and restored mitochondrial ultrastructure. Mechanistically, JTW downregulated Ptgs2 expression, upregulated Gpx4, Fth1, and Acsl3 expression, reduced lipid peroxidation and iron accumulation, while simultaneously suppressing Pde4d and restoring Bdnf levels. In vitro, ZAT mimicked the anti-ferroptotic effects of JTW.JTW inhibits hippocampal neuronal ferroptosis through multi-target regulation, ameliorating insomnia-related neuronal damage and providing a molecular basis for its traditional efficacy in restoring Heart-Kidney communication.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Pachymic acid (PA) is a natural active component of Poria cocos(Schw.)Wol. Although PA exhibits antitumor activity in multiple cancers, its effects and mechanisms against glioma remain elusive. This study aimed to investigate the anti-glioma effects of PA and identify its potential candidate core targets and pathways. Functional experiments demonstrated that PA significantly inhibited the proliferation, migration, and invasion of glioma cells and induced apoptosis in a dose-dependent manner. Using network pharmacology, machine learning, and bioinformatics analysis, we screened six candidate targets: PDE4D, CAPN2, MAPK9, EPHB6, CCKBR, and FAAH. TCGA analysis confirmed that CAPN2 and PDE4D were upregulated in glioma, while the others were downregulated. Molecular docking, an in silico predictive approach, suggested that PA may potentially form favorable binding conformations with these core targets based on calculated binding energies. Further verification revealed that PA treatment was associated with reduced AKT and mTOR phosphorylation, suggesting that the PI3K-AKT-mTOR pathway may be involved in mediating its anti-glioma activity. In conclusion, PA exerts dose-dependent anti-glioma cellular effects through multi-gene regulation, and the suppressed activation of the PI3K-AKT pathway may correlate with its anti-tumor function. These results provide a theoretical basis for developing PA as a potential therapeutic agent for glioma.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Problematic alcohol use (PAU) and anxiety disorders (ANX) frequently co-occur, implying shared genetic and neurobiological foundations. However, the directionality of potential causal relationships and the specific mechanisms underlying the overlap remain unclear. Thus, we investigated the shared genetic architecture and neurobiological pathways between PAU and ANX using a multimethod genomic approach. We analyzed summary statistics from genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of PAU and ANX using Mendelian Randomization to assess causal associations between ANX and PAU. We used MiXeR to assess the overall shared genomic architecture, Local Analysis of (co)Variant Association to estimate regional genetic correlations, and conjunctional false discovery rate (conjFDR) to identify individual overlapping loci. We used FUMA to map single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) to independent loci, conduct differential gene expression analyses across 30 general and 54 specific tissue types, and perform cell-type specificity analyses using a human brain cell atlas. Druggability of identified targets was also evaluated. Mendelian Randomization analyses indicated bidirectional causal associations between ANX and PAU. MiXeR identified moderate polygenic overlap (52.5%) and genetic correlation (rg = 0.44) between the traits, with high effect direction concordance among shared estimated causal variants (86.4%). ConjFDR identified 97 shared lead SNPs, of which 89 had concordant and 8 discordant effects on PAU and ANX. These loci mapped to 97 genes, including DRD2 and PDE4B, genes linked to dopaminergic and cAMP signaling pathways, respectively. Concordant gene expression was enriched in brain, nerve, adrenal gland, esophagus, stomach, and colon, with enriched expression specifically in the prefrontal cortex, anterior cingulate cortex, hippocampus, hypothalamus, substantia nigra and amygdala. FUMA cell-type enrichment analysis identified associations predominantly in neurons from the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, and thalamus. We found substantial genetic and neurobiological overlap between PAU and ANX, highlighting reciprocal, causal relationships between the traits, with differentially expressed genes enriched in addiction- and anxiety-relevant brain regions. These findings support shared genetic and neurobiological mechanisms linking PAU and ANX, while acknowledging that some signals may reflect broader internalizing or psychiatric liability.© 2026. This is a U.S. Government work and not under copyright protection in the US; foreign copyright protection may apply.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42550283 is a review article
Temporomandibular disorders (TMD) pain is the most common orofacial pain with limited effective treatments. Here, we observed elevated lysophosphatidic acid (LPA), a bioactive lipid, in blood, trigeminal ganglion (TG), and peri-temporomandibular joint (TMJ) tissues in mouse models of TMD-like pain induced by TMJ inflammation or masseter muscle injury. Notably, LPA levels were also elevated in TMD patients' blood and positively correlated with their pain intensity. LPA receptors (LPAR) 1 and 3 were expressed in mouse and human TG neurons and upregulated in TMD-like pain models. Inhibition or knockout of LPAR1 or LPAR3 attenuated TMD-like pain, while LPA injection into the TMJ or masseter muscle evoked pain. Furthermore, we demonstrated that LPA/LPAR signaling upregulates and sensitizes PIEZO2, a mechanosensitive ion channel, in TG neurons via extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK). Specific deletion or inhibition of PIEZO2 and suppression of ERK activation in TG neurons mitigated TMD-like pain. These findings suggest that LPA/LPAR signaling drives TMD-like pain via PIEZO2, offering potential therapeutic targets.
Subplate neurons (SpNs) are among the earliest-born and maturing neurons in the developing cerebral cortex. They arise from multiple origins and can be classified into several subgroups based on morphology, connectivity, and gene expression. These neurons play essential roles in cortical circuit formation, yet their cellular diversity and transcriptional dynamics remain incompletely understood. Here, we characterized transcriptomic profiles of SpN subpopulations in embryonic mouse cortex using Lpar1-EGFP and NeuroD1/Cre-ERT2 (D1B) reporter lines. We applied complementary approaches of gene expression profiling, including bulk microarray analysis, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), and Visium spatial transcriptomics. At embryonic day 17 (E17), scRNA-seq identified 10 distinct Lpar1-EGFP-positive SpN clusters, which spatial transcriptomics mapped to specific cortical regions. While many markers showed enrichment within the subplate region, others extended into the hippocampus and ventral pallium (including the amygdala, claustrum, and endopiriform nucleus). Integrated analysis of Lpar1-EGFP and D1B lines revealed both overlapping and unique gene expression signatures, highlighting dynamic markers of subplate identity. Comparisons between E15 and E17 datasets showed substantial transcriptional shifts, suggesting rapid developmental changes in SpN subgroups. Validation with in situ hybridization and RNAscope confirmed the selectivity of key markers, including Cryab, Cdh13, Nr4a2, and Lmo3. Together, these findings provide a molecular framework for further classifying SpN subtypes and identifying candidate markers for transient versus persistent populations, thereby advancing our understanding of early cortical development.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Anatomy published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Anatomical Society.
Lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) is a bioactive signaling lipid that regulates cellular processes, including growth, survival, differentiation, and metabolic homeostasis. LPA signals through its G-protein-coupled receptor, LPA receptor 1 (LPAR1), to modulate pathways controlling cellular signaling and metabolism. Viruses rely on cellular metabolism for efficient replication, and lipids function at nearly every stage in virus replication. Using Coxsackievirus B3 (CVB3) as a model, we performed global metabolomic analysis of infected Huh7 cells and identified lipid classes altered upon infection. Using small-molecule inhibitors targeting lipids, we identified LPA signaling as a key factor in CVB3 infection. Inhibiting LPA signaling with AM095 or via siRNA knockdown reduces CVB3 infection by over 100-fold. We find that LPA mediates CVB3 genome replication. Mechanistically, LPA signaling through LPAR1 facilitates cellular lipid synthesis by regulating AMPK and downstream enzymes, including fatty acid synthase (FASN) and acetyl-CoA carboxylase 1 (ACC1). In AM095-treated cells, lipid droplets are depleted, and cells exhibit a quiescent-like phenotype. Replenishing lipids fully rescues viral replication, indicating that LPA's proviral function is to facilitate lipid synthesis through AMPK signaling. These findings identify LPA-LPAR1 signaling as a regulator of host lipid metabolism that supports CVB3 replication, revealing a metabolic axis for antiviral intervention.IMPORTANCECellular metabolism supports virus infection by providing energy and the building blocks for virus replication. During viral infection, cellular metabolism changes drastically, and we find that lipids are among the most significantly changed metabolites during infection with Coxsackievirus B3, a picornavirus. We used metabolomics to characterize changes in metabolites in infected cells, and we followed up on these data with a drug screen with molecules targeting cellular lipid pathways. We identified lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) signaling as a major regulator of Coxsackievirus infection, supporting viral genome replication via lipid synthesis. This study underscores the importance of lipids in viral infection, uncovers new mechanisms by which LPA signals, and provides new insight into LPA's function in Coxsackievirus infection.
[This corrects the article DOI: 10.3389/fvets.2026.1821251.].Copyright © 2026 Widjiati, Luqman, Darsini, Aulanni'am, Hendrawan, Kurniawati and Jaafar.
The development of most multicellular organisms begins with oogenesis, the production of the egg. In D. melanogaster, egg size is a highly polygenic trait closely related to fitness. Elements of shifts in egg size have been widely studied and modeled, but the genes underlying this variation are still poorly understood. This study aimed to identify candidate genes associated with processes underlying egg-size variation using D. melanogaster as a model. In selection experiments, we generated large-egg populations from a shared ancestral population using both cold-adaptation and artificial selection, and identified candidate genes for the large-egg phenotype. Using whole-genome DNA sequencing and strict computational filtering, we uncovered single-nucleotide polymorphisms in 10 genes. Characterization of these candidates revealed functions in cytoskeletal dynamics, DNA replication and repair, intracellular signaling, and stem cell maintenance and differentiation. RT-PCR and qPCR were used to validate gene expression differences between cold-adapted lines and the Oregon R control (OrR) in a subset of the candidates. In RT-PCR, stathmin demonstrated a modified expression pattern in all cold-adapted lines relative to OrR controls. In qPCR experiments, Pde1c had significantly higher expression (p < 0.05) in the cold-adapted flies compared to OrR controls for all three fly cages tested. For Ino80, significantly higher expression was observed for one of three cages while one cage showed lower expression. We have assembled a candidate list we hope will be a useful resource for researchers across specialties, from germ cells to cytoskeletal dynamics, to further investigate the genetic and developmental aspects of variation in egg size in D. melanogaster.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Chronic exposure to ultraviolet B (UVB) radiation induces excessive reactive oxygen species (ROS) production in dermal fibroblasts, leading to cellular senescence and skin photoaging. Ageing skin is characterised by disruption of the immune microenvironment, including impaired macrophage polarisation and reduced M2 macrophage activity. However, the contribution of M2 macrophages to fibroblast photoaging remains incompletely understood. Here, we investigated whether M2 macrophages attenuate UVB-induced fibroblast senescence through ectonucleotide pyrophosphatase/phosphodiesterase 2 (ENPP2)-dependent lysophosphatidic acid (LPA)signalling. UVB-induced L929 fibroblasts were treated with conditioned media derived from polarised RAW264.7 macrophages, with or without ENPP2 silencing. UVB exposure induced marked senescence, oxidative stress, and mitophagy impairment, whereas conditioned medium from M2 macrophages significantly alleviated these effects compared with M1-derived conditioned medium. Notably, ENPP2 depletion in M2 macrophages substantially reduced these protective effects. M2 macrophage-derived conditioned medium contained elevated LPA levels and restored UVB-suppressed LPAR1 and LPAR3 expression in fibroblasts. Pharmacological inhibition of LPAR1/3 attenuated the protective effects of M2 macrophages, while exogenous LPA supplementation restored these effects under ENPP2-deficient conditions. These changes were associated with enhanced PINK1/Parkin-related mitophagy signalling and reduced oxidative stress. Collectively, these findings identify M2 macrophage-derived ENPP2/LPA signalling as a critical paracrine mechanism that mitigates UVB-induced fibroblast photoaging.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
A major regulator of the intraoocyte levels of cAMP is the cGMP-inhibited PDE3A. This oocyte-specific PDE hydrolyses cAMP, counterbalancing its autonomous GPR3 production and gap junctional transfer from the follicle soma. The pituitary luteinizing hormone (LH) induces resumption of meiosis by reducing the somatic cGMP, which in concomitance with closure of gap junctions lowers its availability to the oocyte. Nevertheless, unlike cGMP, LH elevates the follicle cAMP. This apparent paradox questions whether and how the somatic cAMP elevation serves reinitiation of meiosis. To challenge this intriguing option, we used rat ovarian follicle clusters and cumulus-enclosed/cumulus-free, fully-grown oocytes. The oocytes were incubated with dbcAMP to elevate their cAMP. Follicles were incubated with LH to induce resumption of meiosis. Participation of NO-iNOS pathway was evaluated by either the NO-donor, SNAP or the iNOS inhibitor AG, and involvement of cGMP by a selective sGC inhibitor, ODQ. At the end of incubations, PDE3A activity as well as cAMP concentrations within oocytes were determined. We detected a LH-induced immediate elevation of intra-oocyte cAMP, followed by PKA-mediated activation of PDE3A. Both events were depended on open gap junctions. At this time window, the LH-induced decrease in granulosa-cells NO production followed by reduction in cGMP contributed to the relief of PDE3A inhibition. The later termination of cell-to-cell communication backed a sustained PDE3A activity by stopping the transfer of both, cAMP and cGMP. Our present study suggests that the transient increase in intraoocyte cAMP, which activates the oocyte PDE3A, may serve as a complementary mechanism, to increase the efficiency of LH-induced oocyte maturation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Synovial sarcoma (SS) is molecularly defined by the pathognomonic SS18::SSX fusion, a master epigenetic driver. While NTRK gene fusions are high-priority tissue-agnostic targets for TRK inhibitors like larotrectinib, their co-occurrence with established lineage-defining drivers in sarcomas is exceptionally rare and presents a therapeutic paradox.A 78-year-old female was diagnosed with metastatic biphasic SS. Molecular profiling via targeted RNA sequencing identified a pathogenic PDE3A-NTRK2 fusion (Tier 1A) alongside the canonical SS18 rearrangement. Despite the presence of this usually actionable target, second-line treatment with larotrectinib resulted in rapid clinical deterioration and "explosive" tumor growth, signifying absolute primary resistance to TRK inhibition. The disease followed an aggressive course typical of chemorefractory SS, leading to the patient's death ten months after initial diagnosis.This case provides critical clinical evidence of the "driver versus passenger" phenomenon in precision oncology. It demonstrates that the epigenetic dominance of the SS18::SSX fusion can override the therapeutic relevance of a concurrent NTRK fusion. Our findings serve as a cautionary note: actionable targets detected via next-generation sequencing must be interpreted within the tumor's canonical biological context, as lineage-defining translocations may render secondary kinase alterations therapeutically inert.
We describe the discovery and characterization of PIPE-791, a potent and brain-penetrant lysophosphatidic acid receptor 1 (LPAR1) antagonist with slow association and dissociation kinetics. SAR studies initiated from a literature lead (13) led to the identification of compound 21 that possessed a unique urea scaffold responsible for slow but tight binding to LPAR1. Further optimizations that improved PK and metabolic profiles led to the discovery of PIPE-791. PIPE-791 efficiently traversed the BBB in multiple preclinical species and was efficacious in preclinical models of neuroinflammatory disorders. PIPE-791 possessed excellent ADME properties and was well-tolerated in 28 day GLP (Good Laboratory Practice) toxicity studies in rats and minipigs at doses up to 1000 mg/kg/day. Based on these results and a comprehensive first-in-human enabling preclinical data package, PIPE-791 was advanced into clinical development, including an ongoing trial in subjects with chronic osteoarthritis pain or chronic lower back pain (NCT6810245).
Diabetic vascular complications remain a major cause of morbidity and mortality, yet the molecular mechanisms underlying endothelial dysfunction in diabetes remain incompletely understood. Endothelial dysfunction is a key contributor to vascular pathology, and patient-derived induced pluripotent stem cell-derived endothelial cells (iPSC-ECs) provide a human platform to investigate disease-associated endothelial phenotypes under controlled conditions. Here, we identify the RNA-binding protein Quaking-7 (QKI-7) as a key regulatory factor associated with endothelial dysfunction in patient-derived iPSC-ECs. Using cells derived from diabetic and non-diabetic donors maintained under standard culture conditions, we demonstrate that elevated QKI-7 expression is associated with reduced expression of endothelial homeostatic genes (COL4A2, JUN, TMEM184A, and PPP1R15A) and impaired angiogenic capacity, including reduced tube formation. Importantly, these findings were further validated in three-dimensional blood vessel organoid models, supporting the relevance of QKI-7-associated endothelial phenotypes in a more physiologically complex vascular system. Connectivity mapping identified FDA-approved compounds, including simvastatin, halcinonide, and retinoic acid, as potential modulators of QKI-7-associated pathways. Functional validation in iPSC-ECs demonstrated that these compounds reduce QKI-7 expression and improve endothelial functional readouts. Together, these findings identify QKI-7 as a regulatory node associated with endothelial dysfunction in patient-derived iPSC-ECs and highlight the utility of human iPSC-based vascular models for identifying candidate therapeutic strategies. While these models capture endothelial phenotypes associated with diabetic donor origin, further studies in more complex in vivo systems will be required to establish causal relevance to vascular disease.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Drugs that inhibit phosphodiesterase 10A (PDE10A) activity have shown efficacy in animal models. However, clinical trials of PDE10A inhibitors in patients with schizophrenia have failed to provide clinically significant results up to this point. Our study investigated whether alofropodect (previously referred to as CPL'36 or CPL500036), a PDE10A inhibitor with an improved pharmacological profile compared with other PDE10A inhibitors, including a fast dissociation rate and high activity, could improve symptoms of acute schizophrenia.In this phase 2, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group trial (11 centres, three countries), investigators randomly assigned hospitalised patients with acute schizophrenia to treatment or placebo groups. The main inclusion criteria were age 18-65 years, a documented diagnosis of schizophrenia for at least 2 years before screening and a positive and negative syndrome scale (PANSS) total score ≥ 80. Participants were randomly assigned (1:1:1) to receive oral alofropodect (20 mg or 40 mg) or placebo administered once daily in the morning for 4 weeks. The primary endpoint of the study was an improvement in the PANSS positive subscale at week 4. The secondary endpoints included improvements in PANSS total and negative subscale scores, along with other efficacy and safety assessments. Clinical responders were defined as those with a ≥ 30% reduction in PANSS total score from baseline at week 4.Between 24 May 2021 and 8 May 2024, investigators randomised 189 patients into three groups: 58 into the alofropodect 20 mg group, 66 into the alofropodect 40 mg group and 65 into the placebo group. The mean age was 41.7 years (standard deviation (SD) 10.1), and 119 (63%) participants were men, 70 (37%) were women. All participants were White. We measured the difference in PANSS positive subscale before and after treatment, and the change met the primary endpoints at week 4 with the group where alofropodect 20 mg was compared with placebo (- 3.70 [90% CI - 5.51 to - 1.89]; p < 0.001) and alofropodect 40 mg versus placebo (- 6.35 [90% CI - 8.12 to - 4.57]; p = 0.001). Both the 20-mg and 40-mg doses of alofropodect were effective in improving the total PANSS score compared with placebo and met most secondary efficacy endpoints. A clinical response was observed in 2 of 53 patients (3.8%) in the placebo group, 8 of 52 patients (15.4%) in the 20 mg group and 22 of 52 patients (42.3%) in the 40 mg group at week 4. The compound was well tolerated, with only a few serious adverse events. The discontinuation rates were similar in the placebo and treatment arms. Extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) occurred only in the active treatment groups, but rates were low overall. Somnolence was also reported only in alofropodect groups. Vital signs and biochemical parameters remained unaffected by either dose at any time point. Specifically, blood glucose, total cholesterol and triglycerides did not increase at any dose compared with placebo within our study window.Alofropodect was effective in the treatment of acute schizophrenia symptoms and was well-tolerated, warranting further investigation in larger clinical studies.Clinicaltrials.gov identifier: NCT05278156; registration date: 2022-02-09.© 2026. The Author(s).
Background: Discoidin domain receptor 1 (DDR1) is a collagen-activated receptor tyrosine kinase that plays an important role in epithelial cell regulation; its function in cancer appears to be dependent on tumour type. Methods: This study investigated DDR1 expression in large numbers of breast (n = 1416) and ovarian (n = 450) tumours using immunohistochemistry. In addition, RNA sequencing was conducted on DDR1 knockdown breast and ovarian cancer cell lines. Results: In breast cancer, high DDR1 expression was significantly associated with poor patient survival in ER-positive disease and low expression was associated with poor patient survival in ER-negative disease. In ovarian cancer, high DDR1 expression was associated with improved patient survival. In DDR1 knockdown IGROV1 ovarian cancer cells, 770 transcripts were differentially expressed, whilst in DDR1 knockdown T47D breast cancer cells, 3647 transcripts were differentially expressed. Only 149 genes were shared, suggesting that DDR1 drives distinct transcriptional programmes across cancer types. Shared genes between T47D and IGROV1 DDR1 knockdown cells include key regulators of signalling, metabolism, and cytoskeletal organisation such as YWHAE, NCK2, FN1, and ITGB4. Gene Ontology analysis revealed significant enrichment of epithelial cell migration pathways in both cell lines. Conclusions: Current protein expression and transcriptomic data highlight the important prognostic role of DDR1 expression in breast and ovarian cancer and provide hypothesis-generating insights into the contextual and transcriptomic differences between the two cancer types.
Due to an impaired thyroid hormone (TH) transport across brain barriers, inactivation of the murine TH transporters Mct8/Oatp1c1 causes a profound TH deficiency of the CNS that greatly impacts neural development and function. Since oligodendrocyte maturation and myelination are dependent on local TH signaling, Mct8/Oatp1c1 double knockout (DKO) mice exhibit a persistent state of hypomyelination. Yet, to which extent Mct8/Oatp1c1 inactivation also affects TH transport into oligodendroglia cells has not been addressed. Here, we studied oligodendrocyte maturation and myelination in mice lacking Mct8/Oatp1c1 specifically in oligodendroglia lineage (OL) cells and compared their phenotype with that of control and DKO animals.Conditional Mct8/Oatp1c1 mutants were crossed with mice expressing constitutively Cre-recombinase under the control of the Olig2 promoter to inactivate both transporters in OL cells (so-called OL CKO mice). Neural maturation and myelination were assessed by immunofluorescence (IF) and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) studies at different postnatal time points. Oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs), premyelinating, and myelinating oligodendrocytes were visualized by coimmunolabeling.OL CKO mice exhibited normal serum TH concentrations and hypothalamic Trh transcript levels. Quantification of neuronal TH-target gene transcript levels (Rc3; Klf9; Pde10a) revealed no alterations. Abundance of myelin sheaths-related proteins Mbp and Cnp was significantly reduced in OL CKO mice at postnatal day P12 but reached normal levels at P21 and P120. Quantification of OPC, premyelinating, and myelinating oligodendrocytes disclosed a strongly reduced number of mature OL at P6 and P12, while cell numbers normalized in adult OL CKO mice.Inactivation of murine TH transporters Mct8/Oatp1c1 in OL cells causes a delayed oligodendroglia maturation and myelination. These findings highlight a physiologically relevant function of Mct8/Oatp1c1 in developmental oligodendrogenesis and myelin formation. In contrast to the persistent myelination defect seen in central hypothyroid DKO mice, OL CKO mice exhibit only a transient oligodendrocyte differentiation impairment and transient hypomyelination. These observations indicate the presence of additional, yet unknown, TH transporters that ultimately enable cellular TH entry into oligodendroglia cells even in the absence of Mct8/Oatp1c1.
Acute kidney injury (AKI) is often associated with kidney ischemia-reperfusion injury (KIRI), which is a key driver of AKI progression. Although cuproptosis has been implicated in multiple pathological processes, its relevance to KIRI remains unclear. This study aimed to identify candidate cuproptosis-related genes associated with KIRI and characterize their potential diagnostic and biological relevance.Bioinformatic analyses of transcriptome datasets were performed to identify cuproptosis-related differentially expressed genes (CRDEGs) in KIRI. GSE43974 served as the discovery cohort, GSE126805 served as the external validation cohort, and GSE161201 was used for exploratory single-cell analysis. Focusing on these CRDEGs, we constructed a diagnostic model for KIRI using machine learning and validated it with a nomogram. Gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), immune infiltration analysis, and correlation analyses were used to investigate signaling pathways and immune processes associated with CRDEGs. Unsupervised clustering was conducted to classify KIRI samples and characterize CRDEG-related molecular subtypes. CRDEG expression was further verified in a mouse KIRI model treated with cuproptosis modulators. Transcription factor-mRNA, miRNA-mRNA, and drug-gene interaction networks were constructed to explore potential regulatory and therapeutic associations.Four CRDEGs (PPP1R15A, LIPT1, SERPINE1, and HSPD1) were identified. and associated with immune cell infiltration. Machine-learning analyses suggested the potential of these genes as candidate biomarkers for KIRI, and a nomogram based on these genes showed high diagnostic performance in the discovery cohort. These four CRDEGs showed higher expression in KIRI samples than in control samples. GSEA linked these genes to the immune response, oxidative stress, apoptosis-related signaling, and other injury-associated pathways. Cluster analysis revealed two KIRI subtypes (groups A and B) with differing molecular signatures and pathway activity, especially those related to apoptosis signaling, oxidative stress, and immune responses. Their potential diagnostic relevance was further assessed using external datasets and a KIRI animal model. In addition, 103 transcription factors, 152 microRNAs, and 36 drugs potentially interacting with these CRDEGs were predicted.PPP1R15A, LIPT1, SERPINE1, and HSPD1 may serve as candidate indicators of the involvement of cuproptosis in KIRI, although further mechanistic validation is needed.Copyright © 2026 Liang, Fu, Xie, Zhang, Ma, Hu, Li, Wen, Wen, Dong and Sun.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease characterized by the loss of dopaminergic neurons and resulting in physical and mental issues. Dopamine-based treatments have long been used for Parkinson's disease; however, they do not provide a complete cure, highlighting the need for alternative therapeutic strategies. Phosphodiesterase-10 A (PDE10A), a dual-substrate enzyme regulates dopamine signalling by hydrolyzing cAMP and cGMP. In PD, dopamine depletion disrupts cyclic nucleotide signalling, impairing motor function and overactived PDE10A further reduces cAMP/cGMP levels, worsening the motor deficits. Therefore, PDE10A inhibition may restore cyclic nucleotide signalling, rebalance basal ganglia pathways, and improve motor function, making it a promising therapeutic target for PD. Triazolopyridines are reported as potent PDE10A inhibitors and in the current research work this scaffold is selected for the in silico studies to build 3D QSAR model. Subsequently, after conducting pharmacophore modelling, the AAHHHR_1 model with two hydrogen bond acceptors (A1, A2), three hydrophobic interactions (H5, H6, H9), and one aromatic ring (R13) was selected to screen the NPASS database. After analysing molecular docking, MMGBSA and ADME, the top five hits were selected. These compounds exhibited docking scores ranging from - 11.27 to -13.210 kcal/mol, outperforming the standard reference molecule (-9.204 kcal/mol). MM/GBSA binding free energy calculations further revealed comparable scores ranging from - 59.60 to -68.75 kcal/mol for hits, compared to -71.67 kcal/mol for the standard. MD studies confirmed the stability of hits with PDE10A, forming favourable hydrogen bond interactions throughout a trajectory of 200 ns. Lastly, MM/PBSA showed that out of the five hits, complex NPASS_6815 showed better binding free energy of -30.26 kcal/mol when compared to the reference molecules (-23.38 kcal/mol). Thus, it was concluded that this molecule can act as potent PDE10A inhibitors and could serve as lead compounds for the development of new therapeutic agents for the Parkinson's disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
Reprogramming of amino acid metabolism is crucial for the rapid proliferation of cancer cells, including cancer stem cells. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying this reprogramming in glioma stem cells (GSCs) remain poorly understood. Here, we report that the RNA-binding protein RBM12 increases the intracellular levels of large neutral amino acids, thereby activating the mTORC1 pathway and promoting GSC proliferation, self-renewal, and glioblastoma (GBM) growth. Mechanistically, RBM12 stabilizes the mRNA of the amino acid transporter SLC7A5, thereby increasing intracellular levels of large neutral amino acids, which subsequently activates the mTORC1 pathway. Further studies reveal that RBM12 enhances SLC7A5 mRNA stability by recruiting ALKBH5 to remove m6A modifications on SLC7A5 mRNA. Importantly, pharmacological inhibition of the RBM12-SLC7A5 axis using the SLC7A5 inhibitor JPH203 effectively suppresses GBM growth. These findings elucidate a novel role for RBM12-SLC7A5 signaling in the malignant growth of GBM and highlight the therapeutic potential of targeting this axis for GBM treatment.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
β-Thalassemia major typically manifests between six months and two years of age. It is characterized by chronic anemia, and a range of multisystemic complications lead to increased morbidity and disease burden. It has a significant influence on patients' mental and social health, making a biopsychosocial approach necessary for all encompassing therapy. This study examines how biopsychosocial, biochemical variables and genetic variants, namely the PDE7B gene SNP rs2327669, is associated with β-thalassemia major.Analysis of 400 patients and 400 controls, ages 2 to 18 years, was conducted with an emphasis on psychosocial aspects using a standardized questionnaire developed with the assistance of a psychiatrist and previously published studies to assess the psychological burden, biochemical indicators through biochemical analysis and genotyping with the help of Tetra ARMS-PCR.The findings presented here demonstrate the association between β-thalassemia major's biopsychosocial, biochemical aspects and genetic predispositions. A significant association between the rs2327669 and clinical indicators, were found by SNP genotyping with significance value < 0.05. In personality characteristics and SNP genotyping association it was found, neuroticism and introversion were associated to the GG mutant genotype, whereas conscientiousness and compassion were associated to the CC and CG genotype (p-value < 0.005).Through this study it was observed that, the PDE7B rs2327669 polymorphism is significantly associated with selected biochemical and psychosocial parameters in β-thalassemia major patients. Larger cohort studies are necessary in the future, so it could lead toward focused therapies that tackle physiological & biopsychosocial issues, enhancing the clinical results and quality of life for β-thalassemia major patients.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Medial artery calcification is highly prevalent in patients with CKD and peripheral artery disease. It is strongly associated with higher cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. The second messengers cyclic nucleotides cAMP and cGMP play important regulatory roles in a variety of human diseases, which are controlled by distinct phosphodiesterase (PDE) isozymes. PDEs have proven to be highly effective drug targets for the treatment of various conditions. Their function and regulation in medial artery calcification, however, remain unknown.To investigate the role of PDE10A in medial artery calcification, we utilized calcified human tibial arteries from peripheral artery disease patients, calcified arteries from in vivo models, and calcifying vascular smooth muscle cells in vitro. Functional studies were conducted using PDE10A knockdown, overexpression, global deletion, and smooth muscle cell-specific deficiency models. Furthermore, we employed an ex vivo aortic ring culture model. The therapeutic potential of the pharmacological PDE10A inhibitor, TAK-063, was evaluated in two distinct in vivo calcification models: vitamin D3 injection and the 5/6 nephrectomy CKD model.We observed that PDE10A was increased in calcifying vascular smooth muscle cells in vitro, calcified arteries in vivo, and calcified human tibial arteries. Knockdown and inhibition of PDE10A markedly attenuated phosphate-induced smooth muscle cell osteogenic transformation and calcification, whereas overexpression of PDE10A enhanced smooth muscle cell calcification. Consistently, both global and smooth muscle cell-specific PDE10A deficiency significantly reduced medial artery calcification in vivo, and deletion of PDE10A alleviated calcification in the aortic ring model. Mechanistically, PDE10A promoted medial artery calcification through activation of the p38 MAPK-MMP-3 signaling axis. Additionally, the inhibitor TAK-063 significantly reduced medial artery calcification in both the vitamin D3 and 5/6 nephrectomy models.PDE10A was a critical mediator of medial artery calcification, and pharmacological inhibition effectively reduced medial artery calcification in vivo.Copyright © 2026 by the American Society of Nephrology.
Schizophrenia is a complex neuropsychiatric disorder characterized by impairments in cognition, perception, and social behavior. Current antipsychotic medications primarily target dopaminergic signaling but often exhibit limited efficacy in treating negative and cognitive symptoms. Moreover, long-term antipsychotic therapy is frequently associated with clinically relevant adverse effects, including metabolic syndrome and extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS). Phosphodiesterase 10A (PDE10A) has emerged as a promising non-dopaminergic therapeutic target involved in regulating cyclic nucleotide signaling in the striatum. However, several synthetic PDE10A inhibitors have shown safety and tolerability limitations. This study therefore investigated the antipsychotic-like potential of the ethanol extract of Dracocephalum moldavica (EEDM) and its major flavone glycoside, tilianin, in an MK-801-induced schizophrenia-like mouse model and explored the underlying molecular mechanisms.Tilianin content in EEDM was quantified using HPLC, and phytochemical constituents were comprehensively characterized by UHPLC-Q-TOF LC-MS/MS. The inhibitory effect of EEDM and tilianin on PDE10A activity was evaluated using in vitro enzyme assays, supported by molecular docking. Behavioral tests, including the open field test (OFT), acoustic startle response (ASR), novel object recognition, and social interaction test (SIT), were performed in MK-801-induced schizophrenia-like mice. Mechanistic insights were explored through network pharmacology analysis and further validated by analyzing the cAMP/PKA/CREB signaling in the prefrontal cortex using Western blot analysis.HPLC analysis identified tilianin as the major constituent of EEDM, while UHPLC-Q-TOF LC-MS/MS profiling revealed a diverse phytochemical profile comprising multiple flavonoids and phenolic compounds. Molecular docking predicted stable, high-affinity binding of tilianin to the PDE10A catalytic site (docking score: -11.857 kcal/mol), and this prediction was supported by an enzymatic assay showing PDE10A inhibition by both EEDM (IC50 = 346.6 μg/ml) and tilianin (IC50 = 11.25 μg/ml; 25.20 μM). Tilianin ameliorated MK-801-induced hyperlocomotion, rescued prepulse inhibition (PPI) deficits, and reversed impairments in cognitive and social functions. Network pharmacology identified PDE10A, CREB1, ESR1, and MAPK1 as key hubs modulating synaptic plasticity. Furthermore, tilianin restored the disrupted cAMP/PKA/CREB signaling in the prefrontal cortex.These findings suggest that tilianin may act as a network-informed modulator associated with PDE10A inhibition and downstream neuroplastic signaling, providing a potential mechanistic basis for addressing the limited efficacy of conventional antipsychotic strategies in schizophrenia.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Liupao tea (LPT) undergoes significant bioactive changes during aging, while the link between these chemical shifts and the regulation of oxidative stress pathologies remains unclear. Therefore, this study integrated metabolomics, network pharmacology, and molecular docking to analyze Maosheng (MS) and Tianyu (TY) LPT samples aged 0-15 and 0-10 years, respectively, and elucidated the potential mechanisms of LPT in five oxidative stress - related diseases, including depression, obesity, Alzheimer's disease, diabetes, and hypertension. Metabolomics identified 42 and 13 core antioxidant metabolites in MS and TY samples, respectively. Among them, core metabolites in MS peaked at 5 years, while TY sustained high abundance levels from 3 to 8 years. Network pharmacology revealed synergistic regulation of all five pathologies by both LPTs, and eight key components were screened from MS, and nine from TY based on degree values. Interestingly, the highest node density was shown in depression, and Sankey connectivity confirmed its strongest modulatory effect. Besides, the core depression‑related components and targets were subjected to molecular docking simulations, and binding energies ranged from - 5.37 to -8.88 kcal/mol for MS components, as well as from - 4.11 to -8.39 kcal/mol for TY components. Importantly, oleaside A and CCRIS 7793 showed the strongest affinities for GAPDH and AKT1, respectively. In general, these results laid a practical foundation for developing an LPT product aimed at relieving oxidative stress-related health issues.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
The infrapatellar fat pad (IFP) is increasingly recognized as an active contributor to knee osteoarthritis (KOA) pathogenesis. However, age-related transcriptional changes in the IFP remain poorly understood, and whether observed differences are purely age-dependent or confounded by disease status is unclear. This study aimed to compare transcriptomic profiles of the IFP between young patients with traumatic knee injury and older patients with KOA.IFP samples were obtained from three young trauma patients (21-28 years, KL grade 0) and three older patients with KOA (64-72 years, KL grade III-IV). Bulk RNA sequencing was performed to compare transcriptomes between groups. Differential expression was analyzed with DESeq2 (|log2FC| ≥1, unadjusted p < 0.05), followed by GO and KEGG pathway enrichment. Real-time PCR confirmed key expression changes.Compared with the young trauma group, the old KOA group exhibited 247 upregulated (CSN1S1, SCN9A, P2RY14, EIF3C, etc) and 334 downregulated genes (PI15, WISP3, DMKN, NUTM2G, etc). The old KOA group exhibited significantly reduced expression of extracellular matrix (ECM) genes, including COL1A1, COL2A1, and FN1. Additionally, core genes of the PI3K-Akt signaling pathway, such as AKT1, ITGA2B, and MYB, were also downregulated in the old KOA group.The IFP in old KOA exhibits a transcriptomic profile characterized by dampened ECM structural gene expression and suppressed PI3K-Akt signaling compared with young trauma patients. While confounded by injury status, these findings suggest that age-related loss of ECM integrity may contribute to IFP dysfunction in established KOA and warrant validation in healthy aging cohorts.
Hyperuricemia (HUA) is a common metabolic disorder with limited safe and effective therapeutic options. This study integrated GEO dataset mining and network pharmacology to explore the anti-HUA efficacy and mechanism of pomegranate peel polyphenol extract (PPE). In a mouse model of HUA induced by potassium oxonate and 5% fructose water, PPE significantly reduced serum, urinary, and fecal uric acid levels, attenuated the increases in creatinine and blood urea nitrogen, improved estimated glomerular filtration rate, and ameliorated renal pathological damage, inflammation, and xanthine oxidase activity. Integration of GEO-derived HUA-related genes and computational target prediction for PPE identified 44 common targets, and protein-protein interaction network analysis revealed core targets including Akt1. KEGG enrichment highlighted the PI3K-AKT signaling pathway as a key mediator. Western blotting in vivo and in vitro confirmed that PPE suppressed PI3K-AKT phosphorylation and downregulated the urate reabsorption transporters URAT1 and GLUT9. Furthermore, experiments in UA-induced HK-2 cells demonstrated that ellagic acid, a major bioactive component of PPE, acted through the same pathway. These findings indicate that PPE reduces uric acid levels and protects the kidney via modulation of the PI3K-AKT pathway, providing an integrative data-driven rationale for its potential as a functional food or pharmaceutical agent against HUA.© 2026 The Author(s). Chemical Biology & Drug Design published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Sodium benzoate (SB), a common food preservative, has raised concerns regarding multi-organ toxicity, but its cardiovascular effects remain unclear. Here, we combined network toxicology, molecular docking, and experimental validation to investigate SB-induced cardiotoxicity. The toxicity profile of SB was predicted using ProTox 3.0 and ADMETlab 3.0, which identified potential cardiotoxicity signals. Network analysis identified AKT1 as a hub target, with functional enrichment implicating the PI3K-AKT apoptotic cascade, and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations confirmed stable SB-AKT1 binding. To experimentally validate these predictions, we assessed cardiac function and PI3K/AKT signaling in SB-exposed mice and AC16 cardiomyocytes. In vivo, SB impaired cardiac function and disrupted myocardial morphology, accompanied by elevated serum LDH, CK-MB, and DHE levels. In vitro, SB reduced cardiomyocyte viability, with equimolar NaCl controls confirming specific toxicity of the benzoate moiety. Mechanistically, SB suppressed PI3K/AKT phosphorylation and its downstream GSK3β pro-survival axis, leading to mitochondrial depolarization, BAX/BCL2 imbalance, and Cleaved-Caspase3 activation, collectively indicating mitochondrial apoptosis. mTOR phosphorylation remained unchanged, suggesting that mTOR may not be a functional downstream effector in this model. Notably, although SB elevated ROS production, ROS scavenging failed to restore AKT signaling or rescue cell death, whereas direct AKT activation reversed mitochondrial depolarization and apoptosis, confirming that AKT inhibition, rather than oxidative stress, is the primary driver. Collectively, these findings identify ROS-independent suppression of the PI3K/AKT/GSK3β axis as a key mechanism underlying SB-induced cardiotoxicity, extending its toxicological profile to the cardiovascular system.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a multifactorial airway disorder characterized by chronic inflammation, epithelial dysfunction, and dysregulated intracellular signaling. Transient receptor potential melastatin 3 (TRPM3), a Ca2⁺ permeable ion channel has emerged as a potential regulator of inflammatory and survival pathways, however, its therapeutic relevance in COPD remains poorly understood. The present study integrates network pharmacology and molecular docking to identify putative targets of TRPM3 agonists CIM0216, pregnenolone sulfate (preg sulfate), and nifedipine in COPD. A total of 2442 unique COPD associated genes were identified and integrated with predicted TRPM3 agonist targets revealing 20, 28, and 38 common targets for CIM0216, preg sulfate, and nifedipine, respectively. Enrichment analyses highlighted EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor resistance and PI3K/AKT signaling as key COPD related pathways which also correlated with major TFs. Further, AKT1, JAK2, and PTGS2 were identified as central hub genes, particularly associated with CIM0216 and nifedipine. No common hub genes were identified among all three TRPM3 agonists, nor between the CIM0216-preg sulfate and nifedipine-preg sulfate combinations. The hub genes were validated through GEO dataset (GSE57148). The identified miRNAs form a dense regulatory network controlling inflammatory, proliferative, and immune signaling pathways through key transcription factors, underscoring the importance of miRNA-mediated regulation in COPD progression. Molecular docking revealed that CIM0216 exhibited strong binding affinity towards TRPM3 (ΔG = - 8.6 kcal/mol with 3 hydrogen bonds), AKT1 (ΔG = - 10.8 kcal/mol with 4 hydrogen bonds), JAK2 (ΔG = - 9.0 kcal/mol with 4 hydrogen bonds), and PTGS2 (ΔG = - 9.7 kcal/mol with 6 hydrogen bonds) as compared with nifedipine which showed moderate affinity towards TRPM3 (ΔG = - 7.1 kcal/mol and 6 hydrogen bonds), AKT1 (ΔG = - 7.3 kcal/mol and 3 hydrogen bonds), JAK2 (ΔG = - 6.4 kcal/mol and 2 hydrogen bonds), and PTGS2 (ΔG = - 7.6 kcal/mol and 11 hydrogen bonds), supporting its potential for effective modulation of COPD associated signaling pathways. The study predicts that CIM0216 might act as a potential multi-target agonist of key inflammatory and survival pathways implicated in COPD. The findings propose a mechanistic insight into TRPM3-mediated signaling and support further experimental validation of TRPM3 agonists as novel therapeutic candidates for COPD.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s40203-026-00707-3.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Triclosan (TCS), a compound ubiquitous in personal care products, is now a prevalent environmental contaminant across various ecosystems and has been detected in human tissue samples. Despite its prevalence and strong association with female infertility, the mechanisms by which TCS induces ovarian toxicity have not been thoroughly studied. This study employed an integrated approach combining network toxicology, molecular docking, transcriptomics, and cell experiments to systematically investigate the molecular mechanisms linking TCS to two core ovarian dysfunction diseases: polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) and premature ovarian insufficiency (POI). The physicochemical properties and multi-organ toxicity of TCS were predicted using ADMETlab 3.0 and SwissADME. Following the retrieval of TCS, PCOS, and POI-associated targets from public databases, a PPI network was built to pinpoint central hubs. Subsequently, GO and KEGG enrichment analyses were conducted to delineate implicated biological pathways. Molecular docking was conducted to evaluate the binding affinity of TCS to core proteins. Transcriptomic analysis was performed on the ovarian granulosa cell line KGN exposed to 10 μM TCS, a concentration close to human exposure levels. Cell biology experiments were further employed to validate the findings. The network toxicology results indicated that TCS induces ovarian toxicity primarily by promoting apoptosis and triggering inflammatory responses. Key targets identified included AKT1, EGFR, TNF, IL6, and CASP3, which exhibited strong binding affinities, suggesting direct interactions. Transcriptomic analyses further confirmed disruptions in cytokine receptor binding and apoptosis pathways. Cell experiments confirmed that TCS exposure significantly promotes apoptosis and increases the production of inflammatory cytokines in two types of ovarian granulosa cell lines, SVOG and KGN. Overall, this study provides a conceptual framework for TCS-induced ovarian dysfunction and offers new insights for future research on the mechanisms underlying the ovarian toxicity of TCS.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Osteoporosis (OP) is a progressive skeletal disorder often exacerbated by pharmacological agents. Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), particularly esomeprazole, have been epidemiologically linked to OP, but the underlying mechanisms remain unclear.This study mined over 55 million adverse event (AE) records from the FDA Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) between 2004 and 2024 to identify drug-related OP signals. Four statistical algorithms (ROR, PRR, BCPNN, EBGM) were applied for signal detection. Logistic regression was used to assess independent risk factors. Esomeprazole, the most frequently reported PPI, was further investigated using a network toxicology framework. Drug-target predictions, differential gene expression analysis, protein-protein interaction network construction, molecular docking and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations were conducted to explore potential molecular hypotheses.A total of 52 drugs showed potential OP-related reporting signals. Among PPI-associated OP-related reports, esomeprazole accounted for the largest proportion and was the only PPI with positive signals across all four algorithms. Logistic regression showed that esomeprazole, age, sex, and low body weight were associated with OP-related adverse event reporting. Time-to-onset analysis showed a median latency of 3.5 years. Network toxicology analysis identified 26 overlapping candidate genes between predicted esomeprazole targets and OP-related DEGs. GO and KEGG analyses highlighted bone-related pathways, including MAPK, Notch, and PI3K/AKT signaling. Protein-protein interaction network analysis identified CXCR4, AKT1, and CASP3 as candidate hub genes. Molecular docking and 100-ns MD simulations supported the binding plausibility and conformational stability of the predicted esomeprazole-target complexes.This pharmacovigilance and computational toxicology study suggests a notable association between esomeprazole and PPI-associated OP-related adverse event reporting. The identified targets and pathways, including CXCR4, AKT1, and CASP3, provide exploratory mechanistic clues and hypothesis-generating evidence. These findings may support individualized bone health risk assessment in long-term PPI users and provide a basis for future validation studies.Copyright: © 2026 Wang et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Breast cancer remains one of the most prevalent malignancies among women, and taxane-based chemotherapies such as paclitaxel and docetaxel are central to standard treatment regimens. However, drug resistance in breast cancer limits therapeutic efficacy and contributes to recurrence and metastasis. Identifying resistance-associated molecular targets is therefore critical for advancing treatment strategies. To investigate paclitaxel resistance, we designed and synthesized four paclitaxel-derived probes. Among these, PTX-4, constructed via a stable C─C bond linkage, exhibited superior efficiency. Using a chemoproteomic approach, we systematically profiled paclitaxel-binding proteins in parental and resistant breast cancer cells. This strategy successfully identified AKT2, an unrecognized paclitaxel-interacting protein in paclitaxel-resistant breast cancer. Functional validation demonstrated that AKT2 is a direct target of paclitaxel in paclitaxel-resistant cells. Knockdown and pharmacological inhibition of AKT2 restored the sensitivity of paclitaxel-resistant cells to paclitaxel. These findings establish AKT2 as a key mediator of paclitaxel resistance in breast cancer. Targeting AKT2 may offer a promising therapeutic strategy to overcome resistance and improve the clinical efficacy of taxane-based chemotherapy. This study highlights the advantage of C─C bond-linked, pharmacologically active probes for chemoproteomic profiling of drug targets.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Gliomas are the most common and aggressive primary brain tumours, with glioblastoma (GB) exhibiting a poor prognosis and limited therapeutic response. Dysregulation of intracellular ion homeostasis, particularly Ca2+ signalling, has emerged as a key contributor to glioma progression. The transmembrane BAX inhibitor motif-containing (TMBIM) protein family regulates intracellular Ca2+ flux and cell survival; however, their role in glioma remains incompletely understood. Gene expression and clinical data from TCGA, CGGA, and Rembrandt cohorts were analysed to assess the association between TMBIM1-6 expression, tumour grade, and patient survival. Correlation analyses identified TMBIM-associated gene networks, followed by functional enrichment to characterise underlying biological processes and molecular functions. The TMBIM family members segregated into two distinct groups with opposing clinical associations. TMBIM1, TMBIM4, and TMBIM6 were upregulated and associated with poor survival, whereas TMBIM2, TMBIM3, and TMBIM5 were downregulated and associated with increased survival. Functional enrichment analyses revealed two conserved gene expression programmes: TMBIM1/4/6 are linked to membrane trafficking, metabolic and bioenergetic adaptation, while TMBIM2/3/5 are associated with cell cycle regulation and chromosomal instability. These findings uncover a previously unrecognised functional divergence within the TMBIM family in glioma. This bipartite organisation highlights TMBIM proteins as potential prognostic markers and suggests that selective targeting of specific TMBIM subgroups may improve therapeutic strategies.
B-cell receptor (BCR) is indispensable for B-cell responses, and its signaling relies on the rearrangement of cytoskeletal proteins. Cytoskeletal protein 4.1R has been previously implicated in the regulation of immune function. However, the specific role of 4.1R in BCR-mediated B-cell activation remains unknown. Here, we performed single-cell RNA (scRNA) sequencing on splenic B cells isolated from wild-type (WT) and 4.1R-knockout (4.1R-KO) mice to systematically characterize the functional contribution of 4.1R to B-cell biology. Transcriptomic analyses suggested a critical role for 4.1R in modulating BCR signaling. Ex vivo stimulation of primary B cells with anti-IgM demonstrated that 4.1R-KO B cells exhibited marked overactivation, hyperproliferation, and enhanced antibody secretion. Furthermore, unbiased phosphoproteomic profiling, identified sustained AKT1 phosphorylation as a key feature in 4.1R-KO B cells. Subsequent functional validation confirmed that 4.1R regulates BCR signaling by constraining AKT1 activation. Mechanistically, 4.1R rapidly colocalized with the coreceptor CD19 at the plasma membrane upon BCR engagement, and co-immunoprecipitation confirmed their physical interaction. Loss of 4.1R disrupted this interaction and resulted in sustained and amplified AKT1 phosphorylation (but not AKT2) in stimulated B cells. Collectively, our findings identify 4.1R as a novel negative regulator of BCR signaling that interacts with CD19 to constrain AKT1 activation.
Wet age-related macular degeneration (wAMD), characterized by choroidal neovascularization (CNV), faces a clinical challenge of diminishing efficacy during long-term anti-VEGF monotherapy. An AI-assisted analytical framework pinpointed impaired retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) autophagy and a pro-inflammatory microenvironment driven by retinal microglia-recruited monocytes as co-conspirators in CNV progression. To tackle these dual culprits, we developed an intravitreal injectable hydrogel (Rab&BCL-M@G) that co-encapsulates ranibizumab (Rab) and a small-sized baicalin-loaded microemulsion (BCL-M), enabling controlled and sustained co-delivery of both agents to the retina for over 14 days. Guided by the AI-identified targets, we demonstrated that baicalin promoted dysfunctional mitochondria clearance via the AKT2-PGC-1α-mediated autophagic flux and suppressed monocyte recruitment by disrupting microglial CCL4 signaling. This two-pronged action ameliorated inflammation and angiogenesis, synergizing with Rab. In a laser-induced wAMD mouse model, a single intravitreal injection of Rab&BCL-M@G sustainably reduced CNV area, promoted repair, restored autophagy, and diminished microglial infiltration. Crucially, subsequent wet-lab validation confirmed a positive pathological correlation among defective autophagy, inflammation, and angiogenesis, thereby closing the loop from computational prediction to experimental verification and explaining suboptimal long-term performance after Rab monotherapy. This study proposes a promising synergistic strategy, advancing wAMD therapy through precision delivery and AI-informed mechanism discovery.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Orchestrating tissue regeneration in complex pathologies like post-ischemic stroke requires materials that can precisely regulate multiple signaling pathways. A central challenge is engineering a single platform integrating mechanical, electrical, and biochemical cues to redirect these pathological networks. Here, we present a computation-driven, multimodal hydrogel engineered to function as a programmable regulatory node. The system integrates a computationally screened de novo vasculogenic peptide scaffold and surface-engineered, inflammation-responsive conductive MXene nanosheets. This rational surface engineering solves the critical bottleneck of MXene instability, preserving colloidal stability for over 2 months and maintaining high conductivity (1.2 mS/cm) within the injectable system. In a mouse model of ischemic stroke, this targeted modulation reconstructed the neurovascular unit integrity, suppressed glial scarring, and promoted remyelination and synaptic repair. Crucially, the platform re-established neural electrical signal transmission, leading to the recovery of neural function. Mechanistically, machine learning-driven transcriptomics highlighted Akt2 as a candidate regulatory hub, while untargeted metabolomics, prompted by a striking hair yellowing phenotype, suggested metabolic remodeling involving the phospholipase D signaling pathway. Our findings demonstrate a promising data-driven, bottom-up rational design paradigm for advanced bioelectronic tissue repair materials.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Nowadays probiotics have been widely used in the fields of food, medicine and agriculture. In this study, we investigated the anti-aging effects of the probiotic strain of Limosilactobacillus reuteri A21041 using Caenorhabditis elegans.In this study, lifespan assays, lipid storage experiments, motility tests and stress resistance assays were conducted using C. elegans to present the differences between A21041 and control group Escherichia coli OP50. Besides, transcriptome sequencing and non-targeted metabolomics analysis were performed to further reveal the mechanism of A21041-mediated lifespan prolongation.We found that A21041 extended the lifespan of nematodes by 19.27% compared with the control group, and reduced lipid accumulation of C. elegans by 54.47% in day 5 and 68.77% in day 7 via lysosome signaling pathway. In addition, A21041 increased the viability of worms under thermal stimulus through up-regulation of hsp-16.2 and hsp-110 mRNA levels. Meanwhile, A21041 feeding activated superoxide dismutase (SOD) and enhanced antioxidative ability of nematodes. Of impoatance, A21041 did not extend the lifespan of loss-in function mutants of daf-2, akt-2 and aak-2, which suggested that insulin/IGF-1 signaling (IIS) were required for the life-extending effect of A21041. RNA-seq analysis was consistent with our findings above. Gene gst-4, which has been confirmed to be highly associated with antioxidant activity and lifespan extension was significantly up-regulated. And RNA sequencing still revealed that ATF-4/CTH-2/H2S pathway might be related to A21041-mediated longevity. Metabolites analysis presented that many metabolites produced by A21041 could protect worms from various damages such as oxidants, inflammatory factors and etc.In conclusion, our results demonstrated that L. reuteri A21041 was able to prolong the lifespan and promote the healthspan of Caenorhabditis elegans.Copyright © 2026 Meng, Huang, Lu, Chai, Lu, Pang, Wei, Chen, Xiao, Lin and Luo.
Post Translational Modifications significantly influence conformational preferences and activity of proteins. In Protein Kinase-B (Akt2), numerous residues undergo phosphorylation and O-GlcNAcylation, in same region. This results in a crosstalk mechanism modulating Akt2 activity, and is dysregulated in metabolic diseases such as type-II diabetes. However, atomic level details of how such modifications influence Akt2 dynamics and activity is poorly understood. In this work, we employed in silico approaches to explore the conformational preferences and functional consequences of Akt2 in O-GlcNAcylated, phosphorylated and unmodified states. Multi-microsecond simulations, resulting in total sampling of 7.6μs were performed on Akt2 in all the above states, and the structural effects of such modifications were analyzed. We found that such diverse modifications result in considerable difference in Akt2 dynamics. In phosphorylated state, the activation loop of Akt2 is highly flexible and has high solvent accessibility, in contrast with the buried nature of O-GlcNAcylated Akt2. This involved contacts between the O-GlcNAc residues and the pleckstrein homology domain, resulting in its burial. In the phosphorylated state, an elaborate hydrogen bonded network was observed, where phosphorylated threonine residues and active site residues formed hydrogen bonds with the phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5)-trisphosphate (PIP3) binding residues, forming the structural basis of autoinhibition and phosphatase shielding by Akt2. We further sampled for first time, the conformational changes associated with the PIP3 induced Akt2 activation from the Akt2 simulations in presence of PIP3, ATP and Mg2+ cofactor. This work demonstrated the structural effects of varied post-translational modifications, which form a crosstalk mechanism regulating Akt2 activity.
Although 6:2 Chlorinated polyfluorinated ether sulfonate (6:2 Cl-PFES, F-53B) is gaining popularity in China as an alternative to perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS), its environmental effects on organisms are still not fully understood. This research employed C. elegans to assess the chronic toxicological effects of F-53B at environmentally relevant concentrations (ERCs), while also elucidating the molecular regulatory mechanisms of the insulin signaling cascade in response to F-53B-induced perturbations. Locomotion behaviors were significantly attenuated upon exposure to F-53B at concentrations ≥0.15 μg/L, as evidenced by diminished head thrashes and body bends frequencies, concomitant with a marked exacerbation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation in wild-type nematodes. F-53B exposure engendered a downregulation of insulin signaling constituents, including daf-2, age-1, akt-1, and akt-2, alongside the downstream transcription factor daf-16 was concurrently upregulated. The intestinal insulin signaling pathway DAF-2/IGFR-AGE-1/PI3K-AKT-1/2-DAF-16/FOXO plays a key role in controlling Caenorhabditis elegans (C. elegans)' response to F-53B toxicity, according to tissue-specific activity and genetic relationship analysis. Furthermore, exposure to F-53B also elevated expression of genes associated with intestinal development like pkc-3 and erm-1, as well as oxidative stress-related genes including sod-3, ctl-3, and gst-4. Further analysis showed SOD-3, CTL-3, GST-4, PKC-3, and ERM-1 played a role in regulating C. elegans to F-53B toxicity and were situated downstream of the identified intestinal insulin signaling cascade. Consequently, a protective signaling cascade involving DAF-2/IGFR→ AGE-1/PI3K→AKT-1/2→DAF-16/FOXO→SOD-3/CTL-3/GST-4/PKC-3/ERM-1. was identified for environmental organisms against the adverse effects from F-53B. Our study provides a basis for elucidating the toxicity of F-53B exposure to environmental organisms under field-relevant conditions.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a severe neurodevelopmental disorder closely associated with synaptic dysfunction that contributes to core behavioral deficits. Aerobic exercise (AE) serves as a promising adjuvant intervention for diverse neuropsychiatric conditions, and accumulating evidence suggests favorable effects of AE on ASD-related behaviors and physiological traits. The bone-derived hormone undercarboxylated osteocalcin (ucOCN) induced by AE can cross the blood-brain barrier to regulate synaptic plasticity. Mendelian randomization analysis suggests an association between genetically predicted higher physical activity levels and lower ASD risk, as well as between physical inactivity and higher ASD risk. In BTBR mice (a classic ASD animal model), AE intervention was associated with improvements in ASD-like phenotypes, increased cortical ucOCN, GPR158, BDNF, and synaptic proteins, and altered MAPK/ERK/Akt2 signaling. This work provides potential mechanistic clues for AE-associated changes in synaptic plasticity, supporting non-pharmacological intervention strategies for ASD.© 2026 The Author(s).
The Journal retracts the article "Inhibition of AKT2 Enhances Sensitivity to Gemcitabine via Regulating PUMA and NF-κB Signaling Pathway in Human Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma" [...].
Fibrillary glomerulonephritis (FGN) is a rare glomerular disease that typically presents in middle age, and reports in young adults are uncommon. Herein, we describe the case of a 22-year-old woman with ulcerative colitis who was referred for evaluation of persistent proteinuria and microscopic hematuria. Kidney biopsy showed mild mesangial hypercellularity with increased mesangial matrix on light microscopy. Electron microscopy revealed randomly oriented, nonbranching microfibrils measuring approximately 20 nm in diameter within the mesangial areas. Immunohistochemistry for DnaJ heat shock protein family member B9 (DNAJB9) was positive in the glomeruli, confirming the diagnosis of FGN. Given the unusually young onset, the clinical course, and the presence of intestinal inflammatory lesions, an autoinflammatory disorder, specifically atypical familial Mediterranean fever (FMF), was suspected. Therapy with an angiotensin II receptor blocker was initiated for proteinuria, and colchicine was subsequently added while mesalazine was tapered. After treatment, urinary protein excretion decreased, and endoscopic and histologic bowel inflammation improved. This case highlights three practical points: DNAJB9 immunostaining is useful to establish FGN when classic ultrastructural features are present, FGN can occur in young adults, prompting evaluation for underlying systemic or autoinflammatory conditions, and in patients with intestinal lesions resembling inflammatory bowel disease, consideration of FMF may lead to colchicine therapy that benefits renal and gastrointestinal manifestations.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Japanese Society of Nephrology.
UFMylation is an evolutionarily conserved ubiquitin-like modification that covalently conjugates UFM1 to lysine residues of substrates via a sequential E1-E2-E3 enzymatic cascade. UFMylation plays a pivotal role in maintaining cellular homeostasis, and its dysregulation is closely linked to multiple major diseases, including malignant tumors, hematopoietic defects, neurodegenerative disorders, and congenital developmental defects, highlighting its important biological significance. However, few substrates of UFMylation have been reported to date, limiting our deep understanding of the mechanistic functions of this modification. This major bottleneck stems from two major technical limitations: the overwhelming abundance of ribosomal protein L26 (RPL26)-UFM1 conjugates masks signals from low-abundance substrates, and conventional methods rely on cumbersome cotransfection of multiple pathway components with poor efficiency and specificity in UFMylated peptides enrichment. To address these challenges, we have developed an effective and specific experimental protocol for UFMylation detection and large-scale substrate identification. This protocol employs CRISPR-Cas9-mediated gene editing to generate UFSP1/UFSP2 double-knockout (UFSP1KO/UFSP2KO , DKO) HEK293T cells, which completely abrogate de-UFMylation and thus significantly elevate global protein UFMylation levels upon exogenous introduction of mature UFM1-ΔC2. In addition, exogenous co-expression of the E3 ligase core components UFL1 and DDRGK1 can further improve the sensitivity of substrate detection. This protocol enables large-scale identification of UFMylation substrates with modification sites via high-efficiency enrichment with the K-ε-VG antibody and LC-MS/MS analysis. Key features • Employs UFSP1/UFSP2 DKO HEK293T cells with exogenous mature UFM1-ΔC2 to enhance UFMylation. • Simplified transfection via single-factor assays using UFM1-ΔC2, UFL1, and DDRGK1. • Combines K-ε-VG antibody enrichment with LC-MS/MS for large-scale substrate identification. • Verifies UFMylation sites via site-directed mutagenesis and UFSP2-mediated de-UFMylation.©Copyright : © 2026 The Authors; This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC license.
Fibrillary glomerulonephritis (FGN) is an uncommon glomerular deposition disease characterized by randomly oriented, nonbranching fibrils that are usually Congo-red-negative and larger than amyloid fibrils on electron microscopy. The discovery of DNAJ homolog subfamily B member 9 (DNAJB9) has transformed FGN from a primarily ultrastructural diagnosis into a molecularly recognizable disease. However, the pathogenic significance of DNAJB9 remains unresolved: it may represent a highly specific biomarker, a putative autoantigen, a chaperone-associated scaffold, or a marker of disturbed protein quality control. We report two patients with positive glomerular DNAJB9 staining and markedly divergent clinical phenotypes. The first patient, a 58-year-old man, presented with severe acute kidney injury, nephritic urinary sediment, severe hypertension, crescentic immune-complex glomerulonephritis, and dialysis-requiring kidney failure. Electron microscopy and IgG subclass staining were unavailable; therefore, the findings were interpreted as probable rather than definitive DNAJB9-positive FGN. Diagnostic and causal interpretation was further complicated by concurrent Klebsiella pneumoniae urinary tract infection, mild bilateral hydronephrosis, acute tubulointerstitial injury, and severe hypertension. Kidney function did not recover despite glucocorticoids and cyclophosphamide, but the adverse outcome and treatment response cannot be attributed to FGN alone. The second patient, a 66-year-old woman, presented with chronic proteinuria, preserved kidney function, inactive urinary sediment, and lupus-like serologic findings. Electron microscopy demonstrated randomly arranged, nonbranching 13-19 nm fibrils, and DNAJB9 staining confirmed FGN. She was managed with angiotensin receptor blockade and dapagliflozin, with reduction of proteinuria to below 1 g/day. Together with previously published cohorts, these cases illustrate the diagnostic value of DNAJB9 staining and the potential clinicopathologic heterogeneity of FGN. However, Case 1 should be considered a clinically confounded, hypothesis-generating example and not definitive evidence that FGN alone caused the crescentic presentation, dialysis dependence, or lack of response to immunosuppression.
Background/Objectives: Cabozantinib is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor that primarily targets MET. It has become an important drug in the treatment of renal cell carcinoma (RCC); however, many patients do not respond to cabozantinib treatment and there is no effective next-line therapy. In this study, we identified molecular-targeted drugs that exhibit synergistic effects with cabozantinib using CRISPR/Cas9 screening. Methods: A kinome-wide synthetic lethal CRISPR/Cas9 screen was used to identify target molecules using 786-o RCC cells. A library was generated, and treatment with vehicle or cabozantinib was carried out, followed by next-generation sequencing to identify candidate genes. A combination index based on the Chou-Talalay method was used to evaluate the synergistic effect of cabozantinib through cell viability assays. Xenograft assays were conducted to determine the effect in vivo. Results: CRISPR/Cas9-based screening revealed four genes (MEK1, DCLK1, DYRK3, and FGFR1) that were candidates for synthetic lethality by cabozantinib in RCC cells. We focused on MEK1 because the MEK1 inhibitor cobimetinib has been approved for melanoma treatment. In a cell proliferation assay using 786-o and A498 RCC cells, the combination of cobimetinib and cabozantinib exhibited a synergistic effect. A xenograft assay also revealed a significant synergistic effect of cobimetinib and cabozantinib. Conclusions: CRISPR/Cas9 screening identified MEK1 as a candidate for a synthetic lethal target with cabozantinib in RCC. The combined inhibition of MET/VEGFR and MEK1 suppressed compensatory MAPK reactivation and downregulated the PI3K-Akt pathway, including the survival-associated genes PPP2R3B and ATF6B, and produced significant tumor growth suppression in vivo. These findings highlight the potential of cabozantinib plus cobimetinib, an already-FDA-approved MEK inhibitor, as a readily translatable combination strategy to overcome cabozantinib resistance in RCC.
This study investigates the functional role of DNAJB9 in the pathogenesis of chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP). Using quantitative proteomics alongside human tissue analysis and murine models, we found that DNAJB9 is significantly upregulated in CRSwNP nasal epithelium and closely mirrors epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) progression. Functional assays in human epithelial cells demonstrated that DNAJB9 actively drives the EMT phenotype. Mechanistically, DNAJB9 interacts with and stabilizes the E3 ubiquitin ligase TRIM22 by inhibiting its autoubiquitination. This stabilized TRIM22 targets IκBα for proteasomal degradation, leading to constitutive NF-κB pathway activation and subsequent EMT. Ultimately, DNAJB9 acts as an essential driver of tissue remodeling in CRSwNP. These findings highlight the broader clinical significance of the DNAJB9/TRIM22/NF-κB signaling axis, presenting it as a promising therapeutic target for inhibiting nasal polyp formation and associated remodeling.© 2026 The Author(s).
UFMylation, a recently identified ubiquitin-like modification, is essential for cellular stress homeostasis, particularly endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress regulation. However, its biological and therapeutic exploration has been hindered by the absence of potent small-molecule inhibitors. Here, we report the first discovery of two compounds targeting the UFMylation E3 ligase complex core protein DDRGK1: Osimertinib, originally designed as an EGFR T790M selective inhibitor, acting through a previously unrecognized covalent mechanism, and CP-24, a novel non-covalent inhibitor. Both compounds disrupt the DDRGK1-UFL1 interaction, globally suppress UFMylation, inhibit ER-phagy, and induce ER stress. In glioblastoma (GBM), pharmacological UFMylation inhibition markedly reduces tumor cell viability and sensitizes cells to Temozolomide and radiotherapy. Both compounds also exert strong immunomodulatory activity, promoting macrophage polarization toward an anti-tumor M1 state. In vivo, Osimertinib, benefiting from superior pharmacokinetics, significantly suppresses tumor growth in immunodeficient models and achieves tumor-free outcomes in 65% of immunocompetent mice. These tumor-free mice develop durable anti-GBM immune memory, rapidly clearing tumors upon rechallenge, an outcome unattainable by previous GBM treatments. Mechanistically, Osimertinib enhances anti-tumor immunity by promoting macrophage M1 polarization, T cell expansion, and reducing PD-1 protein levels. Collectively, our study introduces Osimertinib and CP-24 as valuable chemical probes for dissecting UFMylation biology and highlights Osimertinib's potential for off-label use in EGFR-wildtype GBM. More broadly, we establish UFMylation inhibition as a dual-targeting therapeutic strategy that disrupts tumor survival pathways and reprograms the immune microenvironment, offering a promising avenue for durable GBM control.© 2026. The Author(s).
The phosphorylation of Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) plays a pivotal role in regulating inflammatory factors secretion and chondrocyte degeneration, yet the mechanism maintaining its homeostasis remains unclear.To Identify UFMylation system mediated by DDRGK domain-containing protein 1 (DDRGK1) as a critical regulator of STAT3 phosphorylation to prevent cartilage degeneration.After screening differentially expressed genes and performing immunofluorescence on human cartilage, we generated cartilage-specific Ddrgk1 conditional knockout (cKo) mice and a K268R mutation at DDRGK1's key UFMylation site. Cartilage histology, RNA-seq, proteomics, phosphorylated protein microarray, western blot (WB), PCR and luciferase assays confirmed upregulated STAT3 phosphorylation. Co-IP, purified protein binding, cross-linking with mass spectrometry, and immunofluorescence explored the regulatory mechanism of STAT3 phosphorylation. A specific inhibitor was then selected for interventional treatment.DDRGK1 expression decreased significantly in human degenerated cartilage, especially in the deep zone. Conditional knockout of Ddrgk1 in murine chondrocytes or K268 mutation exacerbated cartilage degeneration in the destabilization of medial meniscus (DMM) model. Multi-omics analysis revealed dysregulation of the STAT signaling pathway in both Ddrgk1 knockout and K268R mutant chondrocytes, with Il-6 and Stat3 as the core genes. Crosslinking MS data demonstrated direct DDRGK1-STAT3 interaction mediated by DDRGK1-K267 and STAT3-K531. Mutations in these regions disrupted their interaction. DDRGK1-K267 mediated UFMylation of STAT3 and phosphorylated STAT3, leading to impaired phosphorylation and subsequent nuclear translocation. Importantly, in human degenerated cartilage, decreased DDRGK1 expression was associated with increased phosphorylation and nuclear translocation of STAT3. This finding was recapitulated in murine models, where cKo of Ddrgk1 or K268R mutation of Ddrgk1 in chondrocytes similarly enhanced STAT3 phosphorylation and nuclear translocation. Strikingly, the specific inhibitor of STAT3 phosphorylation, SH-4-54, effectively rescued cartilage degeneration in Ddrgk1 cKo mice.These findings unveil a novel, UFMylation-dependent role of DDRGK1 in regulating STAT3 activity and maintaining cartilage homeostasis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
UFMylation is a conserved ubiquitin-like post-translational modification that controls protein stability and tissue homeostasis, while its role in amelogenesis remains largely uncharacterized. Here, we investigated the function of UFL1, the sole E3 ligase of the UFMylation pathway, in mammalian enamel development using K14-Cre-mediated epithelial-specific Ufl1 knockout mice. Ufl1 ablation caused severe amelogenesis imperfecta, with impaired enamel deposition, hypomineralization, and progressive tooth damage, accompanied by abnormal cervical loop development. Transcriptomic profiling revealed elevated endoplasmic reticulum stress and dysregulated expression of enamel mineralization genes, including significant downregulation of downstream targets of RUNX2, a master regulator of amelogenesis. We further demonstrated that UFL1 and DDRGK1 directly interacted with RUNX2, and UFL1-mediated UFMylation stabilized RUNX2 protein at the post-translational level. Taken together, this study identifies a novel UFMylation-RUNX2 regulatory axis essential for amelogenesis, providing new mechanistic insights into amelogenesis imperfecta and potential therapeutic targets for dental enamel defects.© 2026 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Adenomyosis, a common gynecologic condition of the uterus, affects women with diverse symptoms including pain. Traditionally evaluated pathologically, advanced imaging modality has led to more diagnoses including asymptomatic women. This noninvasive diagnosis has raised questions about disease progression and symptom development. This study aimed to investigate the cellular and molecular patterns associated with adenomyosis and adenomyosis-related pain, focusing on inflammatory processes. We employed an integrative, retrospective bioinformatic design combining publicly available bulk RNA-sequencing data from adenomyotic and control endometrium and myometrium with single-cell RNA-sequencing data from adenomyosis patients stratified by the presence of pain.We performed enrichment analysis, gene expression profile analysis with core inflammatory genes, protein-protein network analysis, and cell-cell communication analysis.Activation levels of core inflammation-associated modules revealed elevated inflammatory activity in endometrial tissues compared to myometrial tissues in adenomyosis. Single-cell RNA-seq identified significant upregulation of inflammation modules in cell types such as endothelial, mesenchymal, and NK/T cells, particularly in patients experiencing pain. NK/T cells disclosed co-upregulation in non-canonical inflammatory pathways, implicating them in pain-associated immunity. Also, combinatorial analyses through enrichment analysis and core inflammatory-associated gene expression pattern analysis emphasized key inflammatory genes, including CGAS, TNF, and IL1B, along with pain-specific alterations in DNAJB9, GSTA1, CXCL8, and CXCL3 across cell subpopulations. Additionally, protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis identified multipotent stem cells and NK/T cells as key drivers of nociceptive processes, mediated by chemokines such as CCL11 and CXCL13. Moreover, cell-cell communication analysis exhibited pain-associated disruptions in IL-1, estradiol, and 2-AG pathways.These findings underscore the significance of inflammation, mitochondrial immunity, and specific chemokine pathways in the pathophysiology of adenomyosis and its pain. Because the single-cell analyses were based on a small cohort (n = 2 per group), these results should be regarded as hypothesis-generating and require validation in larger, well-characterized cohorts. Understanding these mechanisms could nonetheless help guide the development of targeted therapies to alleviate symptoms and enhance outcomes.© 2026 Kwon et al.
Host genetic susceptibility to urogenital Chlamydia trachomatis (Ct) reinfection remains poorly understood. Coding variants identified in prior genome-wide association studies (GWAS) explained only a small fraction of the risk of reinfection. Our goal in this study was to characterize whether more risk would be captured by sequence variation that traditional GWAS insufficiently captures. Specifically, we evaluated the risk attributable to SNPs present in regulatory, non-coding regions; post-transcriptional regulation by microRNAs (miRNAs) that may depend on sequence variation in either the miRNA or the target mRNA; and copy number variants (CNVs). We analyzed GWAS data from African American women with or without documented urogenital Ct reinfection. Fine mapping and independent association analyses identified 30 unique index single-nucleotide polymorphisms (iSNPs), which were expanded to variants in linkage disequilibrium. Regulatory annotation was performed using HaploReg, RegulomeDB, FORGEdb, rSNPBase, and GTEx. We examined whether genes identified in the Ct reinfection GWAS are targeted by known Ct infection-associated microRNAs using curated databases. Genome-wide CNV calling was conducted using SNP intensity data, followed by stringent quality control and gene-level association testing. Functional annotation prioritized 7 SNPs with strong regulatory evidence, with stringent criteria for regulatory relevance, using HaploReg, RegulomeDB, FORGEdb, and rSNPBase. The strongest signals were observed at the CHIT1 locus, where multiple intronic variants (including rs2486963 and rs2244385) overlapped regulatory chromatin, altered transcription factor binding motifs, and acted as cis-expression quantitative trait loci for CHIT1 in whole blood. Additional regulatory variants were identified near TDRP, ERICH1, and DLGAP1, showing tissue-specific regulatory effects. MicroRNA analysis revealed extensive post-transcriptional targeting of SOCS6 and SULF1, while CHIT1 showed no curated Ct-associated miRNA interactions. CNV analysis identified 5775 high-confidence events, with nominal gene-level associations observed for ATAD3A, CARD14, TMEM240, and ZNF140. These results indicate that a greater fraction of the susceptibility to urogenital Ct reinfection may be driven by genetic variation affecting immune and epithelial pathways rather than protein-coding changes.
DDX3X is a highly conserved RNA helicase associated with RNA metabolism, translation initiation, and deciding cell fate choices. Spontaneous mutations in DDX3X cause a rare genetic human disorder called DDX3X syndrome, showing a spectrum of neurodevelopmental and intellectual abnormalities. How missense mutations in DDX3X lead to aberrant cellular functions and pathological consequences is unclear. Here, we demonstrate that specific DDX3X syndrome missense mutations induce the formation of persistent, solid-like DDX3X stress granules by structurally altering the conformation of the DDX3X-RNA complex. Structural interrogation of DDX3X syndrome missense mutations revealed critical mutations that perturb the DDX3X-RNA complex, exhibit high clinical pathogenicity scores, and are associated with cancers. N and C-terminal mutations adjacent to the helicase domain of the DDX3X (F182V, I190S, T198P, L556S, and L559H) showed augmented stress granule (SG) assembly, and formation of persistent DDX3X-SGs in neuronal and non-neuronal cells. Intriguingly, these mutations altered the liquid-like properties of DDX3X-SGs, forming solid-like SGs. Mechanistically, these mutations drive the persistent DDX3X-SGs by either locking DDX3X in an open, RNA-bound conformation or by increasing the rigidity of the DDX3X-RNA complex (I190S; T198P), thereby conferring a loss of liquid-like properties. The persistent solid-like DDX3X-SGs preferentially promoted neuronal lytic cell death and did not affect translation. Also, the C-terminal L556S and L559H mutations, which form persistent granules, promoted the DDX3X-driven β-amyloid aggregation. Our observations indicate that DDX3X syndrome mutations near the N- and C-termini promote the formation of solid-like DDX3X condensates, neuropathological aggregation, and neuronal cell death, which might underlie the disease pathogenesis in humans.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are key sensors of infection and injury, and are critical inducers of inflammation. TLR-induced activation of the NF-κB and MAPK pathways promotes the secretion of mediators of inflammation such as cytokines and chemokines. Control of cytokine production is critically important, as unnecessary inflammatory responses can lead to tissue damage, while insufficient inflammatory responses can lead to susceptibility to infection. Previous studies showed that TLR4 uses distinct NF-κB and MAPK activation properties to discriminate between low and high concentrations of ligand, triggering cytokine production only at ligand concentrations that activate both pathways. The switch-like activation of MAPKs by TLR4 establishes an inflammatory threshold for ligand concentrations that facilitates threat discrimination. Using murine macrophages, we reveal that MAPK activation properties are TLR-specific, and that switch-like MAPK activation is not a general feature of all TLRs. Consequently, certain TLRs do not have an inflammatory threshold of ligand concentration and may not effectively filter signal from noise. The activation properties of the ERK pathway, rather than messenger RNA levels, dictate the patterns of TNFα cytokine secretion for all TLRs examined. We demonstrate that the TLR4 inflammatory threshold can be modulated by costimulation with granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor in an ERK-dependent manner. We show that deletion of BCL-3 changes the TLR4-induced ERK pathway activation properties from switch-like to gradual and lowers the activation threshold. We reveal that different TLRs have different capacities to discriminate threats based on ligand concentration, and that ERK pathway activation properties can be altered to change the cellular decision to initiate inflammation.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists.
DEAD-Box Helicase 3 X-Linked (DDX3X) is a ubiquitously expressed RNA helicase with diverse cellular roles implicated in a neurodevelopmental disorder called DDX3X syndrome. Although DDX3X is a leading genetic cause of intellectual disability in females, there is no treatment. While gene supplementation is a plausible therapeutic strategy, previous studies suggest DDX3X is carefully regulated and dose sensitive. To understand the consequences of overexpressing DDX3X with unregulated adeno-associated virus-mediated gene supplementation, we generated a vector driving strong ubiquitous DDX3X expression and administered it through a direct cerebrospinal fluid injection in newborn mice. Mice injected with a high dose died within 1 week from myocardial degeneration. Increased expression of stress response markers together with elevated apoptotic signaling in the heart suggested activation of stress-induced apoptotic pathways. Incidental findings included excess lipid accumulation, most prominent in the liver, and other liver injury. The innate immune system was also highly activated in the heart and liver. Interestingly, the brain was overall unaffected. The results suggest that DDX3X overexpression can cause rapid transgene-driven, tissue-specific toxicity, underscoring the need for tight DDX3X gene dosage control. These findings illustrate the possibility for improper transgene expression to drive severe toxicity including death within days following administration.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The sheep Y chromosome encodes genes essential for testicular development and spermatogenesis, yet their transcriptional dynamics across developmental and pathological states remain largely uncharacterized. Here, we profiled Y-linked gene expression using RNA-seq datasets from Hu sheep testes across postnatal development (0, 3, 6, 12 months) and from divergent testicular (large, normal, small, cryptorchid) and epididymal (large, small) weights. Developmental trajectory analysis of 134 expressed Y-linked genes revealed three distinct patterns: progressive activation from birth to sexual maturity (dominated by multicopy families ZNF280BY, HSFY, PRAMEY, TSPY3), progressive decrease, and stage-specific expression. Differential expression identified 41 Y-linked genes consistently downregulated in small, cryptorchid, and pre-pubertal testes compared with normal or large mature testes. Hierarchical clustering showed that 6-month-old small testes transcriptionally clustered with cryptorchid testes, not with immature or normal testes. In the epididymis, only one Y-linked gene was differentially expressed between large and small groups. Among X-Y gametolog pairs, most showed positive expression correlations in testes, whereas DDX3X/DDX3Y exhibited a significant negative correlation (ρ = -0.450, p = 0.0185); strikingly, this pair reversed to a positive correlation in the epididymis (ρ = 0.607, p = 3.29 × 10-5). In conclusion, Y-linked transcriptional profiles distinguish testicular pathology from normal maturation, and DDX3X/DDX3Y regulation is strictly tissue-specific.
The transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β) superfamily regulates diverse biological processes, including proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis, tissue remodeling, and reproductive signaling across metazoans. Here, we performed a genome-wide characterization of the TGF-β gene family in donkey (Equus asinus, ASM1607732v2) using comparative genomics and bioinformatics analyses, with horse (Equus caballus, EquCab3.0) as a reference to investigate evolutionary conservation and functional divergence. Genome assemblies and proteomes were retrieved from NCBI, and TGF-β genes were identified using BLASTp and HMMER searches (Pfam PF00019), followed by phylogenetic, conserved motif, synteny, Ka/Ks, mutation prediction, subcellular localization, and tissue-specific expression analyses. We identified 40 TGF-β genes in donkeys, exceeding the numbers reported in several mammals, suggesting possible lineage-specific expansion or differential gene retention within Equidae. Phylogenetic and motif analyses demonstrated strong evolutionary conservation across the two principal clades (TGF-β-like and BMP-like). Four segmental duplications were identified, with Ka/Ks ratios ranging from 0.28 to 0.43, indicating strong purifying selection on duplicated genes. Synteny analysis revealed extensive collinearity with the horse genome, supporting conserved equid genomic architecture. Comparative sequence analysis identified 160 amino acid variants, including 11 predicted deleterious mutations in key genes (GDF6, GDF9, GDF10, BMP15, and RGMA), suggesting potential functional divergence associated with reproductive and developmental pathways. Importantly, transcriptomic validation using publicly available donkey RNA-seq tissue expression data (NCBI BioProject: PRJNA1017964) revealed distinct tissue-specific expression patterns, with reproductive tissues (ovary and uterus) displaying enriched expression of TGF-β/BMP signaling components, particularly TGFBR1, TGFBR2, TGFB1, BMP2, BMP4, and BMP7, while canonical fecundity genes (GDF9 and BMP15) exhibited ovary-associated expression. This receptor-dominant signaling profile may have a coordinated TGF-β regulatory network underlying folliculogenesis, reproductive tissue remodeling, and fertility-related processes in donkeys. Subcellular localization predictions showed that most proteins (22/40) were extracellularly localized, consistent with conserved signaling functions. Together, this study provides the first integrated genomic and tissue-expression atlas of the donkey TGF-β superfamily, offering new insights into equid-specific evolutionary conservation, reproductive signaling, and functional divergence.
Host microRNAs (miRNAs) are widely proposed as innate antiviral effectors against SARS-CoV-2, yet whether they actually restrict infection in lung epithelial cells remains unresolved. Two of the most-cited candidates, miR-29a-3p and miR-15b-5p, are predicted to bind both the viral genome and key entry/trafficking factors such as Furin and ATG9A, but functional evidence is fragmented and often contradictory. Here, we put both miRNAs to the test in human Calu-3 cells infected with the SARS-CoV-2 Beta and Omicron BA.1 variants, using parallel gain- and loss-of-function strategies coupled to RT-qPCR of viral and cellular transcripts and back-titration of infectious progeny on VeroE6/TMPRSS2 cells. Both miRNAs transiently suppressed viral gene expression at 6 hpi, but this early dampening was followed by a marked transcript rebound at 24 hpi, especially for Omicron, with virtually no impact on total extracellular viral RNA. More strikingly, miR-15b modulation enhanced infectious virus output during Beta infection, and miR-29a overexpression boosted Omicron BA.1 infectivity, while Furin, ATG9A, AKT3, and TFEB showed only modest, condition-dependent shifts. Rather than acting as clean antiviral effectors, miR-29a and miR-15b emerge as context-dependent modulators that can paradoxically favor SARS-CoV-2 replication-a cautionary signal for miRNA-based antiviral strategies.
Blood-based biomarkers are increasingly recognized as promising tools for the diagnosis and monitoring of neurodegenerative diseases, offering a minimally invasive alternative to cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) testing. We evaluated the analytical performance and clinical utility of the Olink Target 48 Neurodegeneration panel, a novel multiplex proteomic platform based on the proximity extension assay (PEA) technology, in a large, clinically diverse dementia cohort.We retrospectively analyzed plasma samples from 238 patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), dementia with Lewy bodies, frontotemporal dementia, progressive supranuclear palsy, and corticobasal degeneration, along with 65 healthy controls, quantifying 41 proteins in each sample. We assessed analytical performance using intra- and inter-assay coefficients of variation, evaluated diagnostic accuracy through receiver operating characteristic curve analysis, and investigated associations between biomarker levels, clinical severity measures, and pathology-specific CSF biomarkers for AD and Lewy body pathology (LBP) using general linear models.The platform quantified 32 proteins with variable analytical performance; nine were excluded due to poor detectability. Strong correlations were observed between PEA-based measurements and established immunoassays for plasma pTau217, NEFL, and GFAP (all p < 0.001). Plasma pTau217 demonstrated superior diagnostic accuracy for AD, achieving an area under the curve (AUC) exceeding 0.91 against all comparison groups. Novel ratios combining NEFL with markers of immune function or synaptic integrity (NEFL/ITGB2, NEFL/ITGAM, NEFL/SCG2) achieved AUCs exceeding 0.93 for discriminating patients from controls, significantly outperforming NEFL alone (all p < 0.001). Thirteen proteins, spanning markers of neuroaxonal damage, myelin-associated processes, and immune function (i.e., Abeta40, Abeta42, BMP7, CLSTN3, ENO2, KLK8, MMP10, NEFL, NPTXR, OMG, RTN4R, SCG2, SDC4, all p < 0.01) showed significant independent associations with disease stage as measured by the Clinical Dementia Rating scale. Four proteins (i.e., pTau217, GFAP, SYT1, and SDC4) were significantly associated with AD pathology, while three (ENO2, ITGAM, and ITGB2) showed significant associations with LBP (all p < 0.05).This multiplex platform provides multiplex biomarker measurements with potential utility for AD diagnosis and disease staging across neurodegenerative disorders. These findings support further validation studies for its implementation in clinical and research settings.© 2026. The Author(s).
Preeclampsia (PE) is a major hypertensive disorder of pregnancy and a leading cause of maternal and perinatal mortality and morbidity worldwide. Aberrant placental development, characterized by shallow trophoblast invasion and incomplete remodeling of maternal spiral arteries, remains central to PE pathogenesis. In PE, tissue transglutaminase (TGM2) is dysregulated in the placenta, contributing to vascular dysfunction, inflammation, and impaired trophoblast differentiation, yet the upstream regulatory signals remain unknown. Bone morphogenetic protein 7 (BMP7) is abundantly expressed at the maternal-fetal interface and implicated in vascular homeostasis, but its role in regulating trophoblast function, especially related to PE pathogenesis, remains undefined. Here, single-cell transcriptomic profiling of placental tissues revealed coordinated downregulation of BMP7 and upregulation of TGM2 in PE relative to normotensive controls. Functional assays in immortalized and primary human trophoblasts demonstrated that BMP7 promotes trophoblast migration and invasion by suppressing TGM2 expression through the ALK2/3-SMAD1/5/9-SMAD4 pathway. Trophoblast organoid models further demonstrated the anti-invasive role of TGM2 in trophoblast differentiation during early placentation. In vivo, an adenovirus-expressing sFlt-1 (Ad sFlt-1)-induced PE mouse model showed increased placental Tgm2 expression, while recombinant BMP7 administration ameliorated PE-like symptoms. Although the protective effects of BMP7 in vivo are likely mediated by mechanisms beyond TGM2 alone, together these findings identify the BMP7-TGM2 axis as an important trophoblast-regulatory mechanism in PE and support BMP7 as a potential therapeutic candidate.© 2026. The Author(s).
Beyond its role in sex determination, the Y chromosome contains genes that regulate transcription, translation, and protein stability, thereby contributing to the pathogenesis of various male-specific diseases, including cancer. Although sex significantly influences cancer incidence and outcomes, the molecular mechanisms underlying these differences remain poorly understood. These disparities are particularly evident in colorectal cancer (CRC), where men experience higher incidence, metastasis, and mortality rates. Here, we provide the first evidence that the sexually dimorphic RNA helicase DDX3Y (DEAD-box helicase 3 Y-linked), but not its X-linked homolog DDX3X, is significantly downregulated in tumor tissues from male CRC patients (n = 22). Overexpression of DDX3Y suppressed CRC cell proliferation, invasion, and colony formation while promoting apoptosis (p < 0.01). Conversely, siRNA-mediated depletion of DDX3Y, but not DDX3X, enhanced proliferation, invasion, and colony formation in normal colorectal mucosal cells (p < 0.01). Mechanistically, DDX3Y regulated the expression of key genes involved in cell growth and invasion, including KRAS, PIK3CA, PTEN, Snail, TCF7L1, and E-cadherin, whereas DDX3X had no significant effect on these targets. Collectively, these findings identify DDX3Y as a potential male-specific tumor suppressor in CRC and support further investigation of its prognostic and therapeutic potential in colorectal cancer.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Routine TBNK immunophenotyping detects the major lymphocyte compartments but may underestimate the biologically relevant variation contributed by less frequent but well-defined minor lymphocyte subsets. This study evaluated whether extending routine TBNK immunophenotyping with minor lymphocyte subsets provides complementary, analytically retrievable information that improves patient-level immune stratification beyond clinical diagnosis. In this retrospective cross-sectional study, peripheral blood immunophenotypes from 159 individuals were analyzed using a standardized workflow of eight DuraClone TBNK markers with manual hierarchical selection and absolute counting on a single platform. Multivariate profiling at the patient level was performed using derived immunophenotypic variables rather than single-cell event data. Canonical and extended panels were compared using nonparametric tests, PERMANOVA, principal component analysis, UMAP, k-means clustering, inter/intra distance indices, feature importance analysis, and hierarchical heat maps. Canonical immunophenotyping showed the strongest diagnostic associations for the B cell and CD4+ T cell compartments, while the extended panel identified an additional discriminatory structure, with absolute T double negative counts as the most informative minor lymphocyte subsets. Both panels were significantly associated with diagnostic clustering, but the extended panel showed a broader distribution of variance than the diagnostic panel. Compared with the canonical panel, the extended panel increased the inter/intra distance index (0.369 vs. 0.302, p = 0.0027) and substantially repositioned individuals within the immune space, with 59.1% shifting more than 10 percentiles. The clustering agreement between models was partial (ARI = 0.28; NMI = 0.42), and heat maps revealed continuous immunophenotypic axes with an internal substructure enriched in minor lymphocyte subsets. Extended routine immunophenotyping refines the multivariate representation of peripheral immune organization without requiring additional cytometry markers. Rather than replacing standard TBNK analysis, it complements it by revealing complementary, analytically retrievable information from minor lymphocyte subsets, thereby improving patient-level stratification and facilitating a more accurate, context-specific interpretation of immune status.© 2026 The Author(s). Cytometry Part B: Clinical Cytometry published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Clinical Cytometry Society.
Chronic microglial neuroinflammation is a core driver of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Wei et al. recently reported a blood-brain barrier (BBB)-penetrating, microglia-targeting nanomodulator (Res@TcMNP/ASO) that simultaneously suppressed NF-κB signaling and enhanced NRF2-dependent antioxidant defense in chronically activated microglia, yet the molecular node coupling these two opposing circuits was not identified. In this perspective, drawing on primary literature spanning microglial inflammation, neuronal genome maintenance, tau regulation, and oncology, I propose that sirtuin 6 (SIRT6) is a plausible upstream candidate for this coordinated effect. SIRT6, a NAD+-dependent chromatin deacetylase, restrains NF-κB through H3K9 deacetylation at RELA target promoters and, in parallel, deacetylates and stabilizes NRF2 to amplify antioxidant transcription; its decline in the aging and AD brain promotes DNA damage and GSK3-driven tau hyperphosphorylation. Because a microglia-restricted carrier confines pathway modulation to the relevant cell population, this delivery strategy is well matched to a SIRT6-centered mechanism, while the context-dependent, potentially oncogenic nature of systemic SIRT6 activation reinforces the rationale for such restricted delivery. I outline specific loss- and gain-of-function experiments to test whether microglial SIRT6 mediates the dual-pathway effects of Res@TcMNP/ASO, offering a falsifiable hypothesis to guide future mechanistic and therapeutic work.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research & Clinical Interventions published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Diffuse Gastric Cancer (DGC) is an aggressive subtype with a poor prognosis and a lack of specific biomarkers, representing a critical unmet need in oncology. This study aimed to elucidate the key molecular drivers of DGC by integrating RNA-seq data with a multi-faceted bioinformatics approach.We analyzed RNA-seq data from young-onset DGC and normal tissues (GSE113255, GSE122401). Machine learning (ML) feature selection (ReliefF algorithm) was used to prioritize genes, followed by protein-protein interaction network analysis to identify hub genes. Their roles were further investigated through Gene Ontology, KEGG pathway analysis, tumor microenvironment immune infiltration, miRNA-regulatory network analysis, transcription factor prediction, and computational drug repurposing analyses.Our ML‑driven approach identified seven hub genes central to DGC pathogenesis including CCL5, CXCR4, MMP9, FOXP3, IL18, TNFSF11, and TNFSF13B. Among these, three prioritized core hub genes (CXCR4, MMP9, and TNFSF13B) were selected based on statistically significant overexpression and complementary functional roles. Specifically, CXCR4 showed a Fold Change of 3.12 (Log2FC = 1.64, FDR = 0.01), MMP9 exhibited the highest magnitude of upregulation (Fold Change = 16.58, Log2FC = 4.05), and TNFSF13B demonstrated the most statistically significant differential expression (Fold Change = 2.32, Log2FC = 1.21, FDR < 0.000001). High CXCR4 expression was identified as a potential prognostic indicator associated with poorer overall survival in the TCGA‑STAD cohort (HR = 1.5, p = 0.0072). We delineated a core regulatory circuitry where NF‑κB (NFKB1/RELA) masterfully regulates the hub gene network. Drug repurposing analysis nominated several FDA‑approved agents, including the VEGF‑A inhibitor Bevacizumab, which indirectly suppresses CXCR4 and MMP9.This pilot study establishes a robust integrative framework that synergizes ML with network biology. It nominates CXCR4 and TNFSF13B as candidate therapeutic targets and highlights the potential of ML‑based feature selection for discovering biologically relevant, context‑dependent prognostic indicators in DGC. However, we emphasize that these findings are exploratory and hypothesis‑generating, requiring independent validation through experimental studies and larger cohorts before any clinical translation.Copyright: © 2026 Azni et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Although chorioamnionitis (CA) is a known risk factor for neonatal complications, the epidemiological links between specific placental inflammatory stages, systemic biomarkers, and neonatal myocardial injury (NMI) remain unclear.This nested case-control study, derived from a retrospective cohort of 24,175 births, included 942 neonates (314 cases and 628 controls) delivered from 2022 to 2024. Standard and Firth's penalized logistic regression analyses identified independent risk factors for NMI. Predictive performance was evaluated using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves, with internal validation performed via the BCa bootstrap method. Model reliability and clinical utility were further assessed using calibration plots and decision curve analysis (DCA), focusing on the optimized Combined model 2.Maternal inflammatory response (MIR) and fetal inflammatory response (FIR) stages and grades were significantly higher in the case group (p < 0.001). Multivariable logistic regression identified MIR (stage and grade), PROM, and neonatal SIRI as independent predictors of NMI (p < 0.05). Notably, FIR stage demonstrated a strong and significant association with NMI in univariate analysis. MIR stage showed the highest individual predictive accuracy (AUC = 0.814). Combined model 2 exhibited superior discriminatory power (AUC = 0.870), followed by Combined model 1 (AUC = 0.849). Internal validation confirmed the stability of these models. For the optimal Combined model 2, calibration plots revealed excellent reliability with a minimal mean absolute error of 0.02, while DCA demonstrated significant clinical net benefit across a broad threshold probability range of 0.1-0.9.Pathological placental MIR stage and grade are potent predictors of NMI. The synergy between PROM, SIRI, and placental inflammation underscores a continuous maternal-fetal inflammatory axis potentially involved in the development of NMI. These internally evaluated multidimensional models provide a robust framework for early risk stratification and targeted intervention for high-risk neonates.Copyright © 2026 Xu, Wu, Shen, Yi, Yang, Wang, Mao and Li.
We report a case of a uterine mesenchymal tumor with myogenic differentiation and SRF::RELA fusion occurring in a 23-year-old woman manifesting as an endometrial polyp. The tumor consisted of bland spindle cells with a predominantly fascicular growth pattern and entrapment of the endometrial glands and vessels. The tumor was positive for smooth muscle markers and CD10. NGS RNA analysis revealed SRF::RELA fusion. NGS DNA analysis revealed no pathogenic variants or copy-number alterations. On follow-up 12 months after curettage, the patient showed no signs of the disease. To the best of our knowledge, only 3 cases of uterine tumors with SRF::RELA fusion arising in the gynecologic tract have been described previously, and all show benign behavior so far. Differential diagnosis includes both benign and potentially aggressive entities, such as leiomyoma, inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor, perivascular epithelioid cell tumor, uterine adenosarcoma, low-grade endometrial stromal sarcoma, and uterine sarcoma with KAT6B/A::KANSL1 fusion.Copyright © 2026 by the International Society of Gynecological Pathologists.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42548510 is a review article
Guanosine tetraphosphate and pentaphosphate, collectively known as (p)ppGpp, are central alarmones that regulate the bacterial stringent response to nutrient limitation and environmental stress. In the plant pathogen Xanthomonas campestris pv. campestris (Xcc) strain 8004, (p)ppGpp metabolism is primarily governed by RelA/SpoT homologue (RSH) enzymes, including the monofunctional synthetase RelA, the bifunctional synthetase-hydrolase SpoT, and a small alarmone hydrolase SAH. However, the regulatory mechanisms governing RelA activity in Xcc 8004 remain to be fully elucidated. Here, we leverage the utilization of nitrate-induced nitrogen limitation, stemming from the inherently limited nitrate assimilation capacity exhibited by Xcc 8004, to investigate the intricacies of physiological and molecular regulatory processes within the stringent response. The results show that under nitrogen-limited conditions, phosphorylated NtrC transcriptionally activates relA, resulting in increased (p)ppGpp accumulation. This activation induces the NasT antitermination system, and promoting the expression of the nitrite reductase subunit nirD. The NirD directly interacts with the TGS and hydrolase domains of RelA, attenuating its synthetase activity and thereby preventing excessive (p)ppGpp production. Collectively, these findings delineate an NtrC-dependent regulatory circuit that couples nitrogen sensing to post-translational control of RelA via NirD, thereby ensuring balanced (p)ppGpp homeostasis during nitrogen stress. This work reveals a hitherto unrecognized mechanism for fine-tuning the stringent response in an aerobic plant pathogen and highlights the integration of nitrogen metabolism with stress signaling to optimize bacterial adaptation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier GmbH.
Occupational exposure to polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) or metal fumes in the workplace may be detrimental to male fertility. The present study compared sperm concentration, total motility, strict morphology and oxidative stress and SDF levels between 81 men, controls (n = 17) and workers from plastic industry workers (n = 18), steel EAF process (n = 15), waste incineration plants (n = 16) or aluminium factories smelting in the same plant for all workplaces involved in this cross-sectional research. In all treated groups, the sperm concentration, motility, normal morphology, acrosome integrity and membrane function dropped significantly compared with those in controls (p < 0.001). Elevated ROS, MDA and low SOD and CAT activities confirmed the presence of severe oxidoreductive imbalance, particularly in Aluminium and incineration workers. DNA breaks assayed by SCD and comet showed a clear positive exposure-response relationship with the highest OTM in aluminium workers. Network pharmacologic work showed that 67 shared targets were regulated by PAH exposure and male infertility. The hub gene analysis pointed at EGFR, ESR1, RELA, PTGS2, MMP2 and MMP9 as the core hub genes while KEGG enrichment suggested that the HIF-1 and TNF-related inflammatory pathway, along with the endocrine disruption side of stress activating signalling, was involved. Inflammatory signal activation and endocrine disturbance together seemed to end up with really severe damage to sperm DNA, and it also turned on a bunch of mechanisms through which these chemical carcinogens can exert effect. ROS and MDA were negatively correlated with motility as well as sperm concentration significantly (p < 0.05), whereas antioxidant enzymes showed a positive correlation. These findings show how PAH-related industrial poisoning disrupts important reproductive output through ROS-mediated genetic instability and suggest the relevance of protection measures in high-risk industries.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Biochemical and Molecular Toxicology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Feed efficiency (FE) is recognized as a vital component of sustainable dairy production, with residual feed intake (RFI) serving as a key metabolic indicator of FE independent of production levels. However, the genetic improvement of this complex trait is limited by the inability of conventional genomic Best Linear Unbiased Prediction (gBLUP) model to capture complex, non-linear genetic architectures and epistatic interactions. To address these limitations, this study aims to compare the predictive performance of machine learning (ML) approaches, specifically Random Forest (RF) and Multi-Layer Perceptron (MLP) models, against standard gBLUP using genomic data from 220 UK Holstein cows genotyped with the BovineSNP50 v3 BeadChip with 47,446 quality-controlled single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), phenotyped for RFI from 1996-2023. SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) were applied to interpret SNP feature importance from the ML models, and an ensemble framework was implemented to leverage the complementary strengths of RF and MLP.While the gBLUP model exhibited moderate predictive performance, the RF model demonstrated greater stability and accuracy compared to gBLUP, and the MLP showed higher variance across random states. The ensemble framework achieved the highest coefficient of determination (R2 = 0.39) and lowest root mean squared error (RMSE = 0.086). SHAP interpretability analysis revealed distinct genomic architectures between the models. The RF model prioritized genes regulating mitochondrial oxidation and immune surveillance, including SKINT1 and PPARGC1A, whereas the MLP model identified genes involved in lipid metabolism and fat storage, including APCDD1 and ADIPOR1. A convergence of biological signals was observed between the models, with nine common SNPs and 32 consensus genes identified, including ACOD1, CNTNAP2, and core spliceosomal snRNAs.These results suggest that the genetic architecture of RFI may be explored by ML methods as they offer flexibility in mapping non-additive genetic effects. The reliability of genomic predictions for complex traits was enhanced when complementary computational strategies were leveraged in an ensemble framework, providing a focused set of candidate genes for future experimental validation. Whilst exploratory gene networks require validation in larger cohorts, the ensemble ML framework presented here offers an interpretable approach for dissecting the genetic architecture of complex production traits in livestock.© 2026. Crown.
Necroptosis is implicated in the pathogenesis of various inflammatory diseases, including periodontitis. This study aimed to investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying necroptosis in gingival fibroblasts (GFs) and to evaluate the therapeutic potential of AdipoAI, a novel adiponectin receptor agonist, administered locally, along with its regulatory effect on necroptosis.Analysis of single-cell RNA sequencing data using the AUCell scoring system demonstrated significant activation of necroptosis in human periodontal tissues, with GFs identified as the primary cellular target. Integrated approaches, including molecular docking, co-immunoprecipitation, and immunofluorescence, revealed a physical association between phosphorylated AMP-activated protein kinase (p-AMPK) and Receptor-Interacting Protein Kinase 3 (RIPK3). Additionally, we established a mouse model of experimental periodontitis and an LPS/AZD'5582/z-VAD-fmk (LAZ)-induced necroptosis model in hGFs. Techniques including Western blotting, flow cytometry, and transmission electron microscopy were employed to evaluate the effects of AdipoAI administration.Local administration of AdipoAI significantly alleviated gingival inflammation and alveolar bone resorption in mice. In hGFs, AdipoAI effectively suppressed the activation of p-RIPK3 and phosphorylated Mixed Lineage Kinase Domain-Like protein (p-MLKL) and reduced the production of inflammatory factors. Mechanistic investigations revealed that AdipoAI binds to Adiponectin Receptor 1 (AdipoR1) - adiponectin receptor interacting protein (APPL1) to activate the AMPK signaling pathway, facilitating the association between p-AMPK and RIPK3, thereby inhibiting RIPK3/MLKL-mediated necroptosis.This study is the first to unveil a mechanism by which AdipoAI suppresses GF necroptosis through p-AMPK-mediated RIPK3 regulation, offering new strategic insights and experimental evidence for targeted periodontitis therapy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42534143 is a review article
Tubal infertility is one of the major causes of female infertility. This study aimed to investigate the mechanism of action of tubal patency decoction (TPD) and its active ingredient β-sitosterol on tubal infertility.The active ingredients of TPD and their potential targets were obtained from the TCMSP and Batman-TCM databases. The GeneCards, NCBI, and OMIM databases provided the targets associated with tubal infertility. The relationship between the components of TPD and the potential targets of tubal infertility was analyzed by String database and Cytoscape 3.8.0 software. The composition of the compounds in TPD was examined by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) assay. The effects of TPD and β-sitosterol on tubal infertility were verified by establishing a rat model of tubal infertility and a model of tubal epithelial cell inflammation.By network pharmacological analysis, we screened 139 active ingredients of TPD, covering 523 targets, of which 34 were related to tubal infertility. β-sitosterol was identified as an important active compound. Progesterone receptor (PGR) was considered the main target of TPD and β-sitosterol in tubal infertility. Molecular docking and drug affinity responsive target stability (DARTS) assays showed that PGR binds to β-sitosterol. The results of cellular experiments confirmed that β-sitosterol and TPD-containing serum increased the cell viability of LPS-induced tubal epithelial cells, decreased the levels of inflammatory factors (IL-1β, IL-6, IL-8, and TNF-α) and myeloperoxidase (MPO), and increased the frequency of ciliary beating. The results of in vivo experiments showed that both TPD and β-sitosterol improved the conception rate and live births in tubal infertile rats and attenuated tubal inflammation and epithelial cell damage. They increased the expression of RFX2, RFX3, and FOXJ1. Silencing PGR reversed the effect of β-sitosterol on tubal epithelial cells and tubal infertile rats.TPD and its active ingredient β-sitosterol may improve tubal infertility through PGR. These results provide a new basis for the development and application of TPD and its active ingredient β-sitosterol.Copyright © 2026 Liang Shao et al. Mediators of Inflammation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Clozapine, an atypical antipsychotic, is effective for treatment-resistant schizophrenia but frequently causes metabolic adverse effects, including hepatic lipid accumu-lation, inflammation and insulin resistance. Adiponectin, an adipocyte-derived cytokine with anti-inflammatory and insulin-sensitizing properties, may counteract these effects; however, its ability to mitigate clozapine-induced hepatic alterations remains unclear. This study examined whether adiponectin overexpression reduces clozapine-induced lipid accumulation, inflammatory signaling, and whether it restores insulin-related Akt signaling in human HepG2 liver cells. Cells were treated with 25 μM clozapine for 24 or 48 h, and adiponectin was overexpressed by plasmid transfection. Lipid accumulation was quantified by BODIPY staining. AdipoR1 and AdipoR2 expression was analyzed by qPCR, and protein levels of FASN, phosphorylated NF-κB, and phosphorylated Akt were assessed by Western blotting. Clozapine increased lipid accumulation, upregulated FASN, and reduced AdipoR1 and AdipoR2 expression. Adiponectin overexpression significantly decreased lipid levels, which was associated with reduced NF-κB phosphorylation, suggesting attenuation of inflammatory signaling. However, adiponectin did not restore insulin-stimulated Akt phosphorylation. In summary, adiponectin selectively reduced clozapine-induced lipid accumulation and inflammatory signaling in HepG2 cells, whereas impaired insulin-stimulated Akt phosphorylation remained unchanged under the present experimental conditions. These findings indicate a selective protective role of adiponectin and suggest its potential as a modulator of clozapine-induced metabolic side effects.© 2026 the author(s), published by De Gruyter, Berlin/Boston.
Skeletal muscle atrophy is a frequent comorbidity of metabolic disorders and chronic diseases, and despite its high prevalence, no pharmacological therapy is available, representing a major unmet clinical need. Adiponectin and its receptors are key regulators of skeletal muscle metabolism, mitochondrial function and myogenesis, yet clinical translation has been hindered by the lack of receptor-selective agonists with favourable pharmacological and safety profiles. Here, we report the identification and characterization of CDRI-1709S, the first small-molecule AdipoR1-selective agonist and evaluate its myogenic and anti-atrophy efficacy.A PGC-1α luciferase reporter-based screen in AdipoR1/AdipoR2-transfected, AdipoR-low HEK293T cells identified CDRI-1709S as an AdipoR1 agonist. Adiponectin-associated signalling events were evaluated by immunoblotting in AdipoR1/2-overexpressing HEK293T cells and AdipoR-abundant C2C12 myotubes, with receptor specificity confirmed using RNA interference. Myogenic potential was assessed by morphometric analysis and immune detection of myogenic factors. Fibre-type composition and metabolic capacity were evaluated using immunoblotting and extracellular flux analysis. Anti-atrophy effects were examined in vitro using various assault-induced models of myotube atrophy, and in vivo using rat models of dexamethasone (Dex) and sciatic nerve denervation-induced muscle atrophy.CDRI-1709S selectively activated AdipoR1 with high potency (EC50: 414.7pM) and, at a pharmacologically relevant concentration (100 nM), induced rapid adiponectin-associated signalling, including phosphorylation of AMPK, AKT and p38-MAPK, along with upregulation of its downstream skeletal muscle metabolic targets PGC-1α, GLUT4 and UCP3 in an AdipoR1-dependent manner (p < 0.05). CDRI-1709S promoted C2C12 myoblast differentiation into mature myotubes, accompanied by increased expression of MyoD and myogenin (p < 0.05). Treated myotubes were protected against cytokine-, Dex- and nutrient-deprivation-induced atrophy through suppression of atrogenes Atrogin-1 and MuRF-1 (p < 0.01), restoration of myogenic markers (p < 0.05) and prevention of Dex-induced fibre-type switching toward glycolytic MyHC-IIB, with concomitant induction of slow (MyHC-I) and fast (MyHC-IIA) oxidative fibres (p < 0.05). CDRI-1709S also reversed Dex-mediated impairments in oxidative and glycolytic capacity (p < 0.05). Oral administration of CDRI-1709S (10 mg/kg/day) in Dex- and denervation-induced rat models restored atrogene expression, myogenic markers, local adiponectin signalling and myofibrillar architecture to normalcy (p < 0.05 to p < 0.0001). CDRI-1709S prevented Dex-induced enrichment of glycolytic fibres and preserved oxidative fibre composition (p < 0.05). The structural/molecular improvements translated into significant functional enhancements, including toe-spread reflex in denervated limbs (p < 0.05) and increased grip strength (p < 0.0001) plus prolonged wire-hang duration (p < 0.01) in Dex-treated animals.CDRI-1709S is the first AdipoR1-selective small-molecule agonist that induced myogenesis and robustly ameliorated skeletal muscle atrophy, establishing the proof-of-concept for AdipoR1-targeting as a promising therapeutic strategy for sarcopenia and skeletal muscle atrophy.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cachexia, Sarcopenia and Muscle published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42480062 is a review article
Endothelial cell ferroptosis drives atherosclerosis. Salvianolic acid A (SAA), a polyphenol from Salvia species, was tested for its ability to inhibit ferroptosis and attenuate atherosclerosis, and its molecular mechanism was investigated. Screening of 124 natural compounds identified SAA as the most potent inhibitor of RSL3-induced ferroptosis in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). Cellular/mitochondrial lipid peroxidation, Fe2+ content, ROS, and mitochondrial function were assessed with or without SAA. AMPK signaling was probed using pharmacological inhibitors. The AdipoR1 axis was examined via siRNA knockdown. In vivo, ApoE-/- mice on a Western diet were treated with SAA to evaluate atherosclerosis and ferroptotic damage. SAA was identified as the most potent inhibitor of (1S,3R)-RSL3-induced ferroptosis in HUVECs among the screened natural compounds. SAA inhibited the ferroptotic response by restoring GPX4-dependent antioxidant capacity and preventing lipid peroxidation at both the cellular and mitochondrial levels. It improved mitochondrial function by restoring homeostasis of the mitochondrial quality control system, inhibiting mitochondrial reactive oxygen species generation, reducing ferrous iron accumulation, limiting mitochondrial lipid peroxidation, and preserving mitochondrial ultrastructure. The protective effects of SAA against ferroptosis were abolished by AMPK inhibitors, which disrupted cellular lipid metabolism and mitochondrial function regulation. The deleterious effects of AMPK inhibition were reversed by co-treatment with the mitochondrial reactive oxygen species inhibitor MitoTempol. Knockdown of AdipoR1 and experiments with the AMPK agonist AICAR confirmed that salvianolic acid A restores mitochondrial homeostasis and inhibits ferroptosis specifically through activation of the AdipoR1-AMPK signaling pathway. In vivo, treatment with SAA significantly ameliorated Western diet-induced atherosclerosis and ferroptosis-like cell damage in ApoE-/- mice. SAA has strong therapeutic potential against endothelial ferroptosis and atherosclerosis by restoring mitochondrial homeostasis through AdipoR1-AMPK pathway activation. These findings support further clinical investigation of SAA for treating atherosclerosis and other endothelium-related cardiovascular diseases.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
AdipoRon, a small adiponectin receptor (AdipoR) agonist, has the advantages of a low molecular weight, high stability, and long half-life. Preliminary data indicate that it also has anti-cancer effects. However, the investigation of AdipoRon in the context of ovarian cancer is limited. Further research is required to explore the underlying mechanisms. Cell function assays were performed to determine the effects of AdipoRon on the proliferation, apoptosis, migration, and autophagy of ovarian cancer cells. RNA sequencing was conducted on ovarian cancer cells treated with or without AdipoRon to identify dysregulated signaling pathways and targets. The effects of AdipoRon on AdipoR1/2, AMPK, its downstream genes, and autophagy in ovarian cancer cells were examined in the presence or absence of autophagy or AMPK inhibitors. Immunocompetent mice were used to establish an ovarian cancer metastasis model to evaluate the anti-tumor effects of AdipoRon. AdipoRon inhibited the proliferation and migration, promoted cell apoptosis, and induced autophagy in ovarian cancer cells in vitro. High-throughput transcriptome sequencing revealed a close correlation between autophagy and anti-tumor effects of AdipoRon. Mechanistically, AdipoRon induced autophagy by acting on the AdipoR1/2-AMPK-mTOR pathway, thereby inhibiting the progression of ovarian cancer. Blockade of AdipoR via shRNA, inhibition of autophagy or AMPK effectively rescued cells from AdipoRon-induced cellular phenotypes. Moreover, AdipoRon inhibited the malignant progression of ovarian cancer without noticeable loss of weight or organ side effects in an intraperitoneal transplant mouse tumor model. AdipoRon inhibited the malignant progression of ovarian cancer by inducing autophagy through the AdipoR1/2-AMPK-mTOR signaling pathway, suggesting its potential therapeutic value.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) often recurs after surgery due to biofilms and inflammation, as current therapies have poor mucosal retention and limited biofilm penetration. We developed a natural hydrogel combining xylitol and hyaluronic acid (HA) to enhance drug delivery and antibiofilm efficacy.A hydrogel of xylitol (5% w/v) and HA (0.1% w/v), with or without mometasone furoate (MF, 0.2 mg/mL), was formulated. Mucoadhesion was tested in mice. Biocompatibility, anti-inflammatory effects (IL-6, IL-8, TNF-α, FOXJ1), and ciliary toxicity were evaluated in LPS-stimulated human nasal epithelial cells (HNEpCs). Antibiofilm activity against S. aureus, P. aeruginosa, and S. pneumoniae was assessed via MIC/MBC, crystal violet staining, and SEM. Virulence gene expression (fnbA, fnbB, clfB, sarA, agrA) was analyzed during HNEpC-S. aureus co-culture.The xylitol-HA hydrogel showed prolonged nasal retention (up to 12 h). MF incorporation further improved mucoadhesion. The xylitol-HA-MF formulation was biocompatible, significantly reduced IL-6, IL-8, and TNF-α, and partially restored LPS-suppressed FOXJ1 expression (p < 0.01). MF addition provided synergistic bactericidal activity (MBC: 32-64 μg/mL) and reduced pre-formed biofilm biomass (p < 0.05). It also downregulated S. aureus adhesion genes and global regulators (p < 0.01).A natural xylitol-based hydrogel with MF offers prolonged mucosal retention, potent anti-inflammatory effects, and synergistic antibiofilm activity by targeting bacterial virulence, presenting a promising strategy for postoperative CRS management.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Negative emotions, including anger, depressive symptoms, and chronic psychosocial stress, are increasingly linked to residual atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) risk through neuroautonomic, inflammatory, endothelial, and thrombotic pathways.To synthesize epidemiologic, mechanistic, and interventional evidence relating anger and depressive affect to myocardial infarction (MI) risk, and to outline clinically actionable translational opportunities.We conducted a literature review of adult human studies identified through searches of MEDLINE/PubMed, Embase, PsycINFO, CINAHL, Web of Science, and the Cochrane Library from January 1990 to October 2025. After screening 1180 titles/abstracts and reviewing 146 full-text reports, 70 sources were included and narratively synthesized.Across cohorts and meta-analyses, depressive symptoms or major depressive disorder are associated with higher incident CHD/MI risk after multivariable adjustment, though effect sizes vary and residual confounding is possible. Case-crossover studies show a short-term increase in MI risk following intense anger episodes. Mechanistic evidence supports plausible pathways including autonomic surges, HPA-axis dysregulation, endothelial dysfunction, inflammatory signaling (e.g., IL-6/NLRP3), and catecholamine-related thrombogenicity. Interventions-β-blockers, SSRIs, cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), and mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR)- improve emotional symptoms and selected surrogate vascular/inflammatory measures; evidence for reduction in hard cardiovascular outcomes remains limited and mixed.Negative emotions are consistently associated with MI risk and align with biologically plausible mechanisms overlapping with residual inflammatory and autonomic risk. Integrating validated emotion screening and scalable interventions into prevention and rehabilitation warrants rigorous evaluation with equity- and privacy-centered implementation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The selection of appropriate in vitro inflammatory models is critical for mechanistic studies of neuroinflammation and the screening of anti-inflammatory therapeutics. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) combined with interferon-γ (IFN-γ) and LPS combined with adenosine triphosphate (ATP) are widely used to induce microglial inflammation; however, their distinct phenotypic characteristics and optimal applications have not been systematically compared. In this study, we combined transcriptomic profiling with functional assays to compare these two inflammatory paradigms in BV2 microglia. Our results showed that both models activated the chemokine-cytokine inflammatory network and induced the production of inflammatory mediators and chemokines, but exhibited distinct molecular and functional biases. LPS/IFN-γ stimulation preferentially upregulated genes such as Lcn2, Ccl2, Upp1, and Pim2, which are associated with innate immune activation, chemokine-mediated inflammatory responses, and cell survival signaling, and was accompanied by marked increases in NO and TNF-α production. In contrast, the LPS/ATP model preferentially upregulated genes associated with ECM/cell adhesion, inflammatory and cellular homeostatic regulation, oxidative stress, and calcium-dependent secretion, including Thbs1, Thbd, Srxn1, Syt7, and Procr. Functionally, this model exhibited more pronounced IL-1β maturation and release, relatively lower NO production, and greater mitochondrial dysfunction and cell injury. Pharmacological inhibition of NLRP3 with MCC950 significantly attenuated ATP-induced IL-1β maturation, supporting the involvement of the NLRP3 inflammasome in the LPS/ATP model. Overall, the LPS/IFN-γ model is more suitable for investigating the NO/iNOS-TNF-α axis, IFN-γ-mediated synergistic pro-inflammatory responses, and classical pro-inflammatory activation, as well as for screening anti-inflammatory agents. In contrast, the LPS/ATP model is more appropriate for studying IL-1β maturation and release, NLRP3 inflammasome activation, mitochondrial damage, and inflammation-related cell death, as well as for screening inflammasome inhibitors. Our findings provide an empirical framework for rational model selection in microglial inflammation research.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Maternal obesity and viral infection induce placental inflammation, but how their co-exposure influence fetoplacental development remains unclear. We hypothesised that maternal high fat (HF) diet and viral infection would independently induce placental inflammation and lipid peroxidation, reduce antioxidant defence, and cellular turnover. Further, HF diet would compromise placental capacity to adapt to infection.Female C57BL/6J mice were fed a control (CON) or 62% HF diet six weeks before and throughout pregnancy and injected with poly(I:C) (viral mimic) or vehicle (VEH) 24 h before sacrifice at gestational days (GD) 12.5, 15.5, and 18.5 (n = 5-8/group/GD). Placental inflammasome (NLRP3), oxidative stress (4-HNE), antioxidant defence (GPx-4), and cellular proliferation-to-death ratio (Ki-67, Caspase-3) were assessed by immunohistochemistry, and mRNA expression of Tlr3, Irf3, Tlr4, Tirap, and Il-1β were measured by qPCR. Data were analysed by linear mixed models (p ≤ 0.05).At GD12.5, infection was associated with increased Tlr3 mRNA and immunoreactive (ir)-4-HNE, and reduced ir-GPx-4 expression in the placental labyrinth zone (LZ). By GD15.5, HF diet was associated with increased ir-NLRP3 in both LZ and junctional zones (JZ). Exposure to infection alone and co-exposure to HF diet and infection further increased LZ ir-NLRP3. At GD18.5, HF diet was associated with increased Tirap and Il-1β mRNA expression, ir-4-HNE in the JZ and ir-Caspase-3 in the LZ.Maternal HF diet and infection exert distinct effects on the placenta across gestation, suggesting that maternal overnutrition might reduce the placenta's capacity to handle adverse exposures, which may increase susceptibility to poor fetal outcomes.© 2026 The Author(s). American Journal of Reproductive Immunology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a chronic inflammatory bowel disease with limited therapeutic options. The cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS)-stimulator of interferon genes (STING) pathway, activated by cytosolic mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), has been increasingly implicated in UC. Through proteomics and artificial intelligence modeling, this study identified for the first time that senkyunolide I (SEI), a primary bioactive phthalide from Ligusticum striatum DC. (L. striatum), inhibits experimental colitis via the cGAS-STING pathway, with mechanistic validation performed in both intestinal tissues and cultured macrophages. Mutagenesis, activity-based protein profiling, and micro-scale thermophoresis reveal that SEI directly binds voltage-dependent anion channel 1 (VDAC1) at residue K12 to inhibit its stress-induced oligomerization. This blockade prevents mtDNA release into the cytosol, thereby suppressing the cGAS-STING cascade and subsequent M1 macrophage polarization, as well as downstream NLRP3 inflammasome activation, pyroptosis, and ferroptosis in macrophages and colon tissues. Overexpression of VDAC1-WT and VDAC1-K12A in mice confirms this mechanism. Clinically, VDAC1 expression in UC patients positively correlates with cGAS-STING activation and disease severity. Collectively, SEI alleviates colitis by targeting VDAC1 oligomerization to inhibit the cGAS-STING pathway in macrophages, establishing the VDAC1-cGAS-STING axis as a promising therapeutic strategy for UC.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42564851 is a review article
Neuroinflammation plays an important role in the pathobiology of Progressive Supranuclear Palsy Syndrome (PSP-S). However, it is not adequately known whether peripheral inflammation correlates to neuroinflammation in PSP-S. This study aimed to examine a link between peripheral and brain inflammation in PSP-S by integrating blood and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) inflammatory profile and Positron Emission Tomography (PET)-Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) (PET-MRI).Fifty-six PSP-S patients and equal number of healthy controls were recruited. Plasma Th17 pathway cytokine (IL-6, IL-1β, IL-4, IL-10, IL-17A, IL-17F, IL-21, IL-22, IL-23, IL-25, IL-31, IL-33, IFN-γ, sCD40L, and TNF-α) levels were measured in all the study participants. CSF levels of these cytokines were measured only in PSP-S patients. The expressions of NF-κB (Nfkb1, and Nfkb2), inflammasome (Nlrp3, Casp1, and Il18), Th17 (Il1b, Il6, Il17, Tnfa, Il22, Il23, Rorc, and Stat3) and anti-inflammatory (Tgfb, and Il10) genes were quantified in all the study participants. PET-MRI was carried out in a subset of PSP-S patients (n=12) and eleven disease controls (Parkinson's Disease=7, and Multiple System Atrophy=4).Inflammasome (Casp1 and Il18), NF-κB (Nfkb1) and inflammatory (Il1b and Il6) genes were upregulated in PSP-S patients. Plasma IL-1β, IL-6, IL-17A, and IL-17F levels were significantly elevated in PSP-S patients. IL-1β levels significantly correlated between plasma and CSF. PET-MRI indicated neuroinflammation in several brain regions of PSP-S patients.Both systemic inflammation and neuroinflammation are evident in PSP-S. The positive correlation of higher plasma IL-1β levels with neuroinflammation provides preliminary evidence towards the influence of specific peripheral inflammatory molecule on neuroinflammatory basis of PSP-S. The altered immune elements of the current study further reinforce the pathogenic relevance of immune-inflammatory pathways in PSP-S pathobiology.Copyright © 2026 Dey, Kumar, Kumar, Kavya, Mondal, Holla, Kamble, Mahale, Pal, Yadav and Debnath.
Prolonged exposure to crystalline silica (CS) induces silicosis characterized as pulmonary fibrosis. Innate and adaptive immune responses are orchestrated in silicosis pathogenesis. Herein, we delineated the specific role of innate immunity, utilizing recombination-activating gene 1 (Rag1)-knockout mice, which are deficient in adaptive immunity. Unexpectedly, CS-exposure drove more severe lung fibrosis in the Rag1-/- mice than wild-type counterparts, due to a hyperactive NLRP3/Caspase-1 signaling in lung macrophages and a concomitant expansion of lung innate lymphoid cells (ILCs). Specifically, group 1 ILCs (ILC1s) and group 3 ILCs (ILC3s) expanded, and the ILC3s/ILC1s ratio lifted with silicosis progression. Depleting experiment confirmed that ILCs drive silicosis in Rag1-/- mice. Specifically, interleukin-18 receptor α (IL-18Rα) marked pathogenic ILCs with the characteristics of multi-cytokine productions, high proliferation, and potent activation status. Lung macrophages regulated the pathogenic function of IL-18Rα+ ILCs, promoting silicosis in Rag1-/- mice. NLRP3 and IL-18 exerted distinct effects on IL-18Rα+ ILCs that both NLRP3 and IL-18 similarly modulated ILC1s, whereas IL-18 affected cytokine production by ILC3s without influencing their emergence in the lungs. Our study extended the knowledge about how the innate immune response drives CS-induced fibrosis and provided intervention targets for silicosis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42562244 is a review article
NACHT-, LRR- and pyrin domain-containing protein 3 (NLRP3) is an intracellular sensor that detects exogenous pathogenic invasions and endogenous cellular damage, leading to the NLRP3 inflammasome activation, which plays vital roles in host defense and contributes to the pathogenesis of inflammatory diseases, such as acute peritonitis and gout. Therefore, targeting NLRP3 or other signaling molecules downstream has the potential therapeutic benefit. However, effective, low-toxic and clinically promising targeted inhibitors of NLRP3 inflammasome need to be further studied. Through compound library screening, we verified that 4-methylcatechol (4-MC), a polyphenol metabolite of quercetin, inhibited the activation of NLRP3 inflammasome at a low concentration without cytotoxicity, while did not affect the Nuclear Factor kappa B (NF-κB) activation. Mechanistically, 4-MC had no effect on NLRP3 expression, but its inhibitory effect on NLRP3 activation was restrained by increased intracelluar ROS. Moreover, 4-MC significantly ameliorated alum-induced peritonitis and LPS-induced sepsis in vivo. Thus, our research proposes a potential therapeutic drug for the intervention of NLRP3-related inflammatory diseases.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains a major global health burden with limited effective therapeutic strategies. Although chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy has shown encouraging potential, its efficacy in HCC is profoundly constrained by the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment.In this study, we performed integrative analyses of HCC transcriptomic and clinical samples data to identify Copine-1 (CPNE1) as potential oncogenic drivers involved in tumor progression and immune suppression. Using functional and mechanistic assays in vitro with HCC cell line models and in vivo with mouse models, we examined the role of CPNE1 in regulating tumor proliferation, stemness, and its contribution to resistance against GPC3-targeted CAR-T cell therapy.We found that CPNE1 is significantly overexpressed in HCC and correlates with poor patient prognosis. Functional assays revealed that CPNE1 enhances tumor proliferation and stemness by activating the STAT3-transforming growth factor beta (TGF-β) signaling pathway. Moreover, CPNE1-induced secretion of TGF-β promotes T-cell exhaustion, which impairs the efficacy of CAR-T cells. Knockdown of CPNE1 restored CAR-T cell function, enhanced T-cell infiltration into tumors, reduced exhaustion, and improved antitumor efficacy without causing systemic toxicity. Clinically, high CPNE1 expression was associated with lower T-cell infiltration and poor outcomes in HCC patients treated with immune checkpoint inhibitors.These findings identify CPNE1 as a critical regulator of HCC progression and immune suppression, highlighting the CPNE1-STAT3-TGF-β axis as a promising therapeutic target in HCC.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Reduced sperm count, impaired motility, and abnormal morphology are characteristics of oligoasthenoteratozoospermia (OAT). Genetic factors play an important role in spermatogenic failure, but the molecular basis of OAT is still not fully understood. Whole-genome sequencing (WGS) was performed in 17 infertile men with normal karyotypes and no Y-chromosome microdeletions, including 10 patients with azoospermia and 7 with OAT. Among the OAT group, three patients carrying prioritized rare variants with potential relevance to spermatogenesis were selected for detailed analysis and presentation in the current study. Variants were called using DeepVariant, and they were annotated by Ensembl Variant Effect Predictor (VEP). Variants were prioritized based on low allele frequency (< 1% in gnomAD), predicted functional impact, relevance to spermatogenesis, and consistency with a recessive inheritance model. Candidate variants were validated by Sanger sequencing and inspection of BAM files. Structural protein modeling and characterization of mutation-induced changes in molecular interactions were also performed using SWISS-MODEL and AlphaFold. We identified a hemizygous splice donor variant (c.*4 + 1G > T) in SSX1 and a missense variant (c.1190 A > G) in CPNE1 in one patient with OAT. SSX1 is a testis-expressed gene, while CPNE1 encodes a calcium-dependent phospholipid-binding protein. In another patient, a stop-gained variant (c.790 C > T) in SPTBN5 was identified, which encodes a spectrin beta chain protein. This study identifies rare candidate variants in SSX1, CPNE1, and SPTBN5 that may potentially be associated with the molecular basis of OAT. These findings provide preliminary evidence supporting further investigation of these genes in OAT and support the application of WGS in unresolved male infertility.© 2026. The Author(s).
It has been increasingly recognized that, to a significant extent, the peripheral immune system is playing a role in the etiology of Parkinson’s disease (PD). It has been reported recently that there may be multiple types of genetic susceptibility factors influencing the risk of PD through alterations in the functions of particular immune cells; at present, the precise mechanisms involved remain unclear. Based on a multi-dimensional causality inference model that included data from genome-wide association studies (GWAS), expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL), protein quantitative trait loci (pQTL) and single-cell eQTL (sc-eQTL), we performed both cross-tissue Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis and immune cell-specific MR analysis to investigate the association between genetic risk factors and peripheral immune functions based on individuals with PD. We found that the genetic prediction of CPNE1 expression had a negative association with PD risk in whole blood, substantia nigra and several immune cell types. The results support a possible protective relationship between CPNE1 and PD risk; however, the subsequent biological mechanism remains unclear. Genetically predicted CPNE1 expression showed a significant association with lower PD risk at the level of immune cells in nine different subtypes: T cells, monocytes, natural killer cells and so on. In addition, the exploratory immune-infiltration analysis of peripheral-blood transcriptomics data showed that there was a positive correlation of CPNE1 expression with the inferred number of regulatory T-cells; therefore, this result requires confirmation in subsequent studies. Our results suggest that CPNE1 could be a candidate factor for the reduced PD risk in blood, substantia nigra and several immune cell subsets. The above results suggest that peripheral immune regulation is likely associated with the link between CPNE1-relevant pathways and PD; however, it cannot determine the intermediate steps linking peripheral immune effects to neuroprotection in the brain.
BACKGROUND: Myopia, a complex condition influenced by genetic and environmental factors, is an increasing global health concern, and its underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) meta combined with summary-data-based Mendelian randomization (SMR) is a robust tool to identify novel regulatory genes associated with myopia. METHODS: We performed a fixed-effect meta-analysis of two large-scale GWAS comprising 41,468 cases and 817,202 controls to identify genome-wide significant loci associated with myopia. Potential functional myopia-associated genes were prioritized using SMR. Bayesian colocalization analysis, Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis, and validation in an independent cohort were used to verify the causal roles of the candidate genetic loci. DEGseq2 differential expression and machine learning-based Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO) feature selection were used to investigate scleral transcriptomic analyses and strengthen the protective role of CPNE1 in myopia. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and immunofluorescence (IF) were used to localize Copine1 (CPNE1) expression within ocular tissues. CPNE1 was overexpressed by adeno-associated virus (AAV) at the scleral level in a lens-induced myopia (LIM) model, and its potential inhibitory role in eye axial length elongation in scleral fibroblasts was also explored. CPNE1 was overexpressed in vitro in scleral fibroblasts using a lentiviral vector, and downstream molecular changes associated with scleral remodeling were subsequently analyzed. RESULTS: The GWAS meta-analysis identified 35 genome-wide significant loci associated with myopia. Integrative SMR and colocalization analyses consistently prioritized CPNE1 (SMR: false discovery rate < 0.05; colocalization: PP_H4 = 0.988). MR analysis supported a causal CPNE1 protective role in myopia (Wald [odds ratio (OR)] = 0.97; inverse-variance weighted [IVW] [OR] = 0.98). Transcriptomic profiling demonstrated significant CPNE1 downregulation in myopic sclera (log₂FoldChange = − 7), and LASSO regression identified CPNE1 as a predicative feature gene. ScRNA-seq and imunnohistofluorescence localized CPNE1 expression predominantly to scleral fibroblasts. Additionally, in the LIM model, CPNE1 expression was significantly decreased, while AAV-mediated overexpression of CPNE1 attenuated axial elongation and refractive error progression. Mechanistically, CPNE1 overexpression correlated with upregulated α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA) levels, suggesting its potential role in scleral remodeling. Overexpression of CPNE1 in scleral fibroblasts significantly upregulated the expression of TGF-β1, COL1A1, and α-SMA, suggesting a potential role of CPNE1 in myopia pathogenesis through cell cycle-associated regulation and the promotion of scleral fibrotic remodeling. CONCLUSION: CPNE1 may represent a novel potential therapeutic target for myopia and provide insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying its pathogenesis.
Patients with diabetes exhibit an increased susceptibility to vascular calcification, which is associated with significantly elevated risks of mortality and disability. As a new Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonist, Semaglutide is primarily indicated for type 2 diabetes mellitus and obesity, while also demonstrating definitive cardiovascular protective effects. However, the effect of semaglutide on diabetic vascular calcification remains unknown. Our results demonstrated a dose-dependent reduction in calcium deposition with Semaglutide treatment, which was accompanied by downregulation of RUNX2 and BMP2 protein expression in aortic tissues. Additionally, Semaglutide also conferred protective effects in AGE-BSA stimulated mouse aortic smooth muscle cells (MOVAS). Autophagy, a lysosomal degradation pathway, is intimately involved in the pathological process of diabetic vascular calcification. During stimulation with AGEs-BSA, impaired lysosomal function and blocked autophagic flux were observed, as evidenced by increased protein levels of LC3-II and P62, alongside decreased expression of CTSD, CTSB, LAMP1 and LAMP2. These changes were accompanied by a decline in lysosomal pH, activity, and degradative capacity. Treatment with Semaglutide mitigated these abnormalities, restoring autophagic flux and lysosomal function, and consequently attenuating AGEs-BSA-induced calcification in MOVAS. Combined bioinformatics and Western blot analysis confirmed the significant downregulation of CPNE1 by Semaglutide in AGEs-BSA stimulated MOVAS. Copine-1 (CPNE1), a member of the copine protein family, is characterized as a calcium-dependent phospholipid-binding protein that primarily resides in the cytoplasm. These findings indicate that the attenuation of diabetic vascular calcification (DVC) by Semaglutide is associated with the inhibition of CPNE1-mediated autophagy, suggesting a potential novel therapeutic strategy for managing DVC.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Neuroblastoma (NB) is the most prevalent extracranial solid tumor in children. Therefore, urgent exploration of novel therapeutic targets and more effective approaches is imperative to enhance the prognosis of these children.NB datasets were obtained from OpenGWAS-ieu-a-816 (1,627 cases; 3,254 controls; European ancestry) and prot-a-2003 (N=3,301; European ancestry)-and were combined by inverse-variance meta-analysis. Adrenal expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) data were sourced from GTEx v8 (n=233). Bidirectional Mendelian randomization (MR) and summary-based MR analyses were conducted to infer the causal relationship between adrenal-related genes and NB, with validation by Steiger directionality testing and phenotype scanning. Blood cis-eQTL datasets were obtained from eQTLGen (n=31,684 across 37 cohorts), and immune-cell data were retrieved from OpenGWAS (731 traits; IDs ebi-a-GCST90001391-GCST90002121). Using immune-cell traits as intermediate variables, bidirectional MR assessed the causal relationship between blood-related genes and NB, and colocalization analysis was performed for blood-related genes and immune cells.Using two-sample bidirectional MR, we identified eight adrenal genes associated with NB risk. Upregulated expression of CPNE1 (OR 0.94, 95% CI [0.93-0.95]; P=1.69×10-31), ZNF559 (OR 0.93, 95% CI [0.92-0.95]; P=5.96×10-11), TTC18 (OR 0.86, 95% CI [0.85-0.87]; P=1.04×10-110), DNAJC9 (OR 0.85, 95% CI [0.84-0.86]; P=1.62×10-109), and EP400NL (OR 0.84, 95% CI [0.83-0.84]; P<1×10-300) was associated with lower NB risk, whereas upregulation of BTNL2 (OR 1.07, 95% CI [1.07-1.07]; P<1×10-300), FAM182B (OR 1.07, 95% CI [1.06-1.08]; P=3.94×10-23), and NBPF3 (OR 1.13, 95% CI [1.12-1.13]; P=6.49×10-5) was associated with higher risk. In the blood, 43 genes influence NB by affecting the expression of 54 immune cell phenotypes. Among these genes and immune cells, eight exhibited colocalization effects with seven immune cells, indicating their potential as therapeutic targets.This study revealed that certain genes in the adrenal glands and blood affect the occurrence of NB, with immune cells playing a crucial role in the process influenced by blood genes. MR and colocalization prioritize candidate genes/putative therapeutic targets for NB.© 2025 The Author(s). This is an open-access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0), which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited.
Vascular leakage is a major cause of multiple organ failure and mortality in sepsis, and factors that regulate endothelial integrity could serve as promising biomarkers of septic shock development. Copine family members (CPNEs) are well-characterized as soluble membrane-binding proteins, whether CPNEs play a critical role in maintaining vascular integrity during sepsis, however, remains unclear.Human aorta single-nucleus RNA-sequencing data were analyzed for the expression profile of all Copine family members (CPNE1-9). Plasma levels of CPNE5, Ang-II, sICAM-1, and SDC-1 were measured in human sepsis patients at admission and healthy donors as well as in septic mice induced by injection i.p. with cecal slurry. The correlation of CPNE5 levels to other three factors (Ang-II, sICAM-1, SDC-1) were analyzed. CPNE5-knockdown endothelial cells (ECs) and global CPNE5-knockout (KO) mice were utilized to determine the critical role of CPNE5 in sepsis-triggered vascular leakage, organ damage and mortality.Among nine CPNEs, only CPNE5 is predominantly expressed in human aorta endothelial cells. In sepsis patients (n = 77), plasma levels of CPNE5 were significantly reduced, whereas plasma levels of Ang-II, sICAM-1, and SDC-1 were markedly elevated, compared to healthy donors (n = 44; p < 0.01). Similar findings were also observed in a murine sepsis model induced by cecal slurry (CS)-injection intraperitoneally. Furthermore, in the supernatants of cultured ECs treated with LPS or pro-inflammatory cytokine mixture (Cytomix: TNFα/IL-1β/IFNγ, each 10 ng/mL), the concentrations of CPNE5 were significantly lower, which was negatively correlated with the higher EC permeability, compared to the control group. Accordingly, siRNA-mediated knockdown of CPNE5 in ECs caused hyperpermeability upon stimulation with LPS or Cytomix. In vivo, we observed that loss of CPNE5 increased vascular leakage, leading to severe organ injury and higher mortality, compared to WT mice upon septic conditions. The initial mechanistic analysis showed that the reduction of CPNE5 in cardiac and pulmonary ECs was linked to the increased cleavage of membrane tight junctions and adherens junctions.These observations from human sepsis patients and a murine sepsis model suggest that reduced plasma levels of CPNE5 may contribute to sepsis-induced vascular leakage and mortality.© 2025. The Author(s).
The causal relationship between gut microbiota (GM) and white matter injury and communication remains unclear. We aimed to scrutinize the plausible causal impact of GM on white matter hyperintensities (WMHs), white matter microstructure, white matter connectivity, and multiple neurological diseases via Mendelian randomization study. We identified four WMH-related bacterial taxa, including class Melainabacteria, order Gastranaerophilales, family Alcaligenaceae, and genus Ruminiclostridium 6 In addition, three bacterial taxa were discovered that have consistent effect on multiple aspects of white matter microstructure. Furthermore, we found 12 strong associations between genetic liability in GM and white matter connectivity. Among these bacterial taxa, the family Clostridiaceae 1 demonstrated a protective effect against ischemic stroke (IS). The genus Barnesiella showed protective effect on IS and small vessel stroke while posed a risk effect on neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder (NMOSD), as well as on aquaporin-4 immunoglobulin G-positive neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder (AQP4-IgG+ NMOSD). The order Desulfovibrionales and family Desulfovibrionaceae showed protective effect against cardioembolic stroke, and the genus Ruminococcus gnavus group showed a protective effect on amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. In terms of the mapped genes of statistically significant bacterial taxa, genes such as CPNE1, PIGU, MED22, SURF6, DOCK10, and COPS3 exhibited a significant causal correlation with the corresponding white matter connectivity. This study demonstrated a genetically predicted causal relationship between GM and WMH, white matter microstructure, white matter connectivity, and multiple neurological diseases, based on GWAS data from mixed-sex cohorts without sex-stratified summary statistics. These findings highlight the potential role of GM in influencing brain structural integrity.Copyright © 2025 Zhang et al.
The co-occurrence of osteoporosis (OP) and type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) represents a clinically significant comorbidity pattern, characterized by skeletal fragility and insulin deficiency. While epidemiological links exist, their shared molecular mechanisms remain undefined. This study investigates autophagy-a critical cellular degradation pathway-as a potential mechanistic bridge between OP and T1DM pathogenesis. We integrated multi-omics approaches using GEO datasets to identify autophagy- associated hub genes. Machine learning (LASSO/Random Forest) prioritized CPNE1 and FRAT2, validated through ROC curve analysis. Functional annotation via GO/KEGG enrichment analyses revealed enrichment in disease-associated pathways, corroborated by immune infiltration profiling and single-cell RNA sequencing showing cell-type-specific expression patterns. miRNA-gene regulatory networks further elucidated post-transcriptional control mechanisms. Our integrated analyses suggest that CPNE1 and FRAT2 may represent novel targets for combined diagnosis and therapy in OP and T1DM, where autophagic dysregulation could contribute to comorbid pathogenesis. These insights offer fresh perspectives for developing dual-disease management approaches.© 2025. The Author(s).
Ischemic stroke (IS) is a major cause of disability and mortality, but its genetic basis remains poorly understood. This study integrates data from three large-scale genome-wide association studies (GWASs), the GWAS Catalog, MEGASTROKE, and Open GWAS, to identify novel genetic loci linked to IS. Our meta-analysis revealed 124 new IS-associated loci, with enrichment in genes involved in cerebrovascular function, inflammation, and metabolism. Candidate genes like CPNE1, HSD17B12, and SFXN4 are linked to lipid metabolism, immune response, and iron metabolism, indicating diverse pathogenic mechanisms in IS. Further analyses, including expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL) and protein quantitative trait locus (pQTL), confirmed the relevance of these genes in the brain. Mendelian randomization and colocalization analyses highlighted seven genes with potential causal relationships to IS. Single-cell RNA sequencing identified differential gene expression in endothelial cells, implicating these genes in vascular dysfunction. Functional validation in knockout mouse models showed HSD17B12's role in fatty acid metabolism, linking it to cerebrovascular diseases. We also developed StrokeGene, an intelligent assistant based on large language models (LLMs) to aid IS genetic research. StrokeGene offers insights into IS pathophysiology. Collectively, these findings substantially advance the understanding of IS genetics and provide a foundation for precision medicine strategies in stroke prevention and treatment.© 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. on behalf of The American Society of Gene and Cell Therapy.
Basement membrane-related genes (BMRGs) play a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of several diseases. However, their association with coronary artery disease (CAD) remains unexplored. Therefore, this investigation is designed to elucidate the involvement of BMRGs in CAD mechanisms.This study incorporated CAD-related datasets (GSE113079 and GSE125856) and BMRGs. Initially, differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified between CAD and control (CTL) groups in GSE113079 and GSE125856. Subsequently, weighted gene coexpression network analysis (WGCNA) was carried out to identify key module genes associated with basement membranes. We then intersected the DEGs with the key module genes to obtain differentially expressed basement membrane-related genes (DE-BMRGs). Two machine learning algorithms were applied to recognize feature genes, and the intersection of these features yielded the key genes. Subsequently, immune analysis, regulatory network construction, nomogram development, and expression verification were executed based on key genes.Five key genes were identified: C1QTNF3, PTGER2, CAMK2N1, PRSS36, and B3GNT7. Among these, C1QTNF3 (AUC = 0.954), PTGER2 (AUC = 0.878), CAMK2N1 (AUC = 0.872), and B3GNT7 (AUC = 0.855) exhibited strong diagnostic potential in GSE113079, whereas PRSS36 showed more modest performance (AUC = 0.667). Moreover, 11 differences were observed in immune cell populations between the two groups (p < 0.05), including CD8 T cells, and we constructed a TF-miRNA-gene network comprising 112 regulatory relationships, such as the regulation of C1QTNF3 by SMAD4 and hsa-miR-302a-3p. Additionally, the expression of these five key genes was consistently lower in the CAD group across GSE113079, GSE125856, and clinical patients.This study identified five key genes associated with the basement membrane (C1QTNF3, PTGER2, CAMK2N1, PRSS36, and B3GNT7) that offer valuable scientific insights into the mechanisms of CAD. These genes represent candidate noninvasive molecular markers requiring further validation for early diagnosis and serve as preliminary candidates for subsequent therapeutic target exploration.Copyright © 2026 Zhao Dong et al. Cardiovascular Therapeutics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Exercise-induced secreted factors (exerkines) are proposed to coordinate systemic health benefits, yet their human tissue sources and the physiological rules governing transcript-to-serum coupling remain incompletely defined. We integrated multi-tissue transcriptomics with matched serial serum profiling to identify exercise-regulated exerkines and determine whether tissue mass moderates their systemic appearance. Sixteen healthy, sedentary young men performed a single treadmill bout calibrated to expend 300 kcal at 70-75% of maximum heart rate. RNA sequencing was performed on periumbilical subcutaneous adipose tissue, vastus lateralis skeletal muscle and whole blood collected before and immediately after exercise, with serial serum quantification up to 120 min post-exercise. Acute exercise altered adipose and muscle transcriptomes, with a minimal whole-blood response, and upregulated LGALS1 (galectin-1), FSTL1 (follistatin-like 1), OGN (osteoglycin) and C1QTNF3 (C1q and tumour necrosis factor-related protein 3) in both tissues. Serum follistatin-like 1 and galectin-1 concentrations increased significantly immediately after exercise and during recovery. Despite robust transcript induction, OGN and C1QTNF3 did not translate into early circulating increases, indicating candidate-specific kinetics and constraints beyond transcript abundance. Moderation models revealed divergent transcript-to-serum coupling: follistatin-like 1 coupling was moderated by tissue mass in both muscle and adipose depots, whereas galectin-1 followed a muscle-dominant additive profile independent of mass scaling. These findings propose galectin-1 and follistatin-like 1 as human exerkines and indicate that body composition regulates systemic exerkine signatures after exercise, providing a mechanistic framework for understanding physiological variability in exercise-induced adaptations. KEY POINTS: Exercise releases circulating factors that may contribute to health benefits, but the human tissues responsible for their production remain unclear. RNA sequencing was performed in human skeletal muscle, subcutaneous adipose tissue and whole blood, with targeted serum protein quantification over 2 h after a single treadmill bout. Exercise increased LGALS1 and FSTL1 transcripts in skeletal muscle and adipose tissue, with concurrent increases in their circulating protein products immediately post-exercise and during recovery, whereas OGN and C1QTNF3 transcripts increased robustly without an early post-exercise elevation in their circulating protein products. Body composition moderated transcript-to-serum coupling: FSTL1 (follistatin-like 1) showed mass-sensitive coupling, whereas LGALS1 (galectin-1) displayed a muscle-dominant additive profile. Galectin-1 and follistatin-like 1 emerge as exercise-induced exerkines whose circulating responses vary with body composition, supporting their prioritization as candidate mediators of exercise-related health benefits and a framework for interpreting physiological heterogeneity in adaptation.© 2026 The Author(s). The Journal of Physiology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of The Physiological Society.
Adoptive transfer of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) is effective in melanoma and selected solid tumors, but its potential in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) remains largely unexplored. We report a 39-year-old male with metastatic PDAC involving lung, peritoneal, liver, and lymph node who received three sequential infusions of TIL expanded ex vivo with IL-2/IL-15/IL-21 from a lung metastasis. Each infusion followed low-dose lymphodepletion and IL-2 support. The patient achieved stable disease after the first infusion and a partial response after the second along with reductions in serum CA19-9. Genome sequencing revealed substantial inter-tumoral heterogeneity, with mutations in ITGB2, C1QTNF3, CDK9, TMEM200C, FHOD1 and ZZZ3 impacting TIL infiltration and clinical response. RNA-seq showed that responding lesions were enriched for inflammatory and tumor-specific programs, displayed enrichment of T-cell activation transcripts and had reduced infiltration of cancer-associated fibroblasts. TCR sequencing confirmed the robust infiltration of TIL-derived CD8+ clonotypes, while functional assays demonstrated a polyclonal recognition of patient-derived somatic mutations and cytotoxicity against autologous tumor lines. Single-cell TCR mapping further validated the dominance of tumor-specific CD8+ clonotypes in responding lesions. This case demonstrates the feasibility and immunological activity of TIL therapy in PDAC, while underscoring the impact of spatial tumor heterogeneity on therapeutic outcomes.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Panx3, belonging to the pannexin family of channel-forming transmembrane proteins, was previously identified predominantly expressed by bone-forming osteoblasts. Surprisingly however, only neonatal Panx3-deficient mice were found to display impaired ossification, whereas the skeleton was unaffected in adult animals. Furthermore, newborn Panx3-deficient mice displayed transient hypoglycemia, which was normalized at the age of 4 weeks, suggesting a potential role of Panx3 in linking glucose metabolism to bone growth. As bone regeneration largely recapitulates endochondral ossification during skeletal development, and as both processes require substantial amounts of energy, in the present study we investigated the role of Panx3 in fracture healing using a femoral osteotomy model.Female WT and Panx3-deficient mice, aged 12 weeks, were subject to a standardized femoral osteotomy. Healing outcomes were measured using µCT and non-decalcified histology, followed by gene expression analysis and genome-wide transcriptomics. In addition, serum samples were collected from patients with fracture or nonunion as well as healthy controls for the measurement of C1QTNF3.In WT mice, expression of Panx3 was upregulated in the fractured callus during the course of fracture healing. Panx3-deficient mice displayed a striking impairment of bone regeneration, associated with a dysregulated inflammatory response and decreased type-H vessel formation. Transcriptomic analysis of the facture callus further identified differential expression of genes involved in glucose homeostasis, including C1qtnf3, which encodes a glucose-lowering adipokine. Although serum glucose levels in Panx3-deficient animals were moderately reduced during fracture healing, the most pronounced hypoglycemia was found in neonatal Panx3-deficient mice, which also displayed a three-fold increase in serum C1qtnf3 concentrations. Last, we observed increased serum level of C1QTNF3 in patients with fractures compared to healthy controls, and decreased concentrations in patients with nonunion.Taken together, our data demonstrate that Panx3, at least in mice, is not only essential for skeletal fracture healing, but also involved in the previously established regulation of energy metabolism by osteoblasts.
Myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury (MIRI) significantly affects patient prognosis, with inflammation being a key pathogenic mechanism.This study aimed to investigate the effect and mechanism of Bufalin in alleviating MIRI.Using a murine MIRI model, we evaluated cardiac function, myocardial injury, and inflammation after Bufalin intervention. Through Huprot™ human protein microarray,SPR, and molecular dynamics simulation.we identified PTGR2 as a direct target of Bufalin. Bulk RNA-seq, flow cytometry, WB, and immunofluorescence showed that Bufalin reduced macrophage infiltration in ischemic myocardium, downregulated proinflammatory factors like IL-1β, and inhibited NF-κB pathway activation. Mechanistically, Bufalin competes with C1QTNF3 to bind PTGR2 to relieve the inhibition of C1QTNF3, thereby inhibiting NF-κB-mediated inflammation and alleviating oxidative stress by regulating Nrf2/HO-1. Notably, moderate-dose Bufalin improved cardiac function and reduced myocardial infarction area, though it showed potential hepatotoxicity.These findings suggest Bufalin alleviates MIRI by targeting PTGR2 to regulate C1QTNF3/NF-κB signaling, providing a candidate for MIRI treatment.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
(1) This study explored Lacticaseibacillus rhamnosus MS27, a newly isolated strain, as a potential probiotic candidate for alleviating the onset and severity of ulcerative colitis (UC). (2) L. rhamnosus MS27 was isolated and subjected to biochemical identification, antibiotic sensitivity testing, and antibacterial activity assessment. Dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) colitis model mice were used to evaluate its alleviating effects. In this study, 16S rRNA microbiome and eukaryotes reference transcriptome analyses were conducted to investigate its impact on intestinal microbial ecology and potential molecular mechanisms. (3) L. rhamnosus MS27 exhibits high acid tolerance at pH 3.23 and maintains a high viable bacterial count for 24 h. It can utilize sucrose, lactose, maltose, inulin, esculin, salicin, and mannitol but not raffinose, and it is sensitive to carbenicillin, erythromycin, tetracycline, chloramphenicol, clindamycin, and penicillin. It effectively increases the abundance of beneficial microbes, particularly Akkermansia, Muribaculaceae, and Limosilactobacillus reuteri (p < 0.05), while significantly reducing microorganisms linked to human pathogens causing diarrhea and gastroenteritis (p < 0.05). Transcriptomic analysis demonstrated that the expression levels of Igkv16-104 and C1qtnf3 were significantly downregulated in the presence of L. rhamnosus MS27 treatment compared to DSS treatment alone (p < 0.05). Further analysis revealed significant differences in genes related to immune functions, antigen presentation, and immune cell markers, indicating potential protein-protein interaction networks, particularly among genes of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC). (4) L. rhamnosus MS27, as a novel strain, demonstrates a significant capacity to alleviate inflammatory phenotypes. L. rhamnosus MS27 exhibits distinctive metabolic characteristics in lactic acid utilization, acetic acid and oleic acid production. Furthermore, it contributes to systemic homeostasis regulation by modulating Turicibacter to link intestinal microbiota composition with host immune function.
In Xenopus laevis tadpole tail regeneration, lineage-restricted tissue stem cells produce differentiated cells that form regenerated tail tissues, but the behavioral dynamics of tissue stem cells during tail regeneration remain largely unknown. We previously reported that multiple tissue stem/progenitor cells can be efficiently enriched from regeneration buds using the side population (SP) method. Here, we performed trajectory inference using single-cell RNA sequencing data of the SP fraction to construct differentiation trajectories and identify putative tissue stem cell populations that initiate differentiation pathways. We found that complement c1q tumor necrosis factor-related protein 3 (c1qtnf3) is specifically expressed in putative muscle stem cells (MSC) and, using knockdown (KD; CRISPR/Cas9-based F0 crispants) experiments, demonstrated that c1qtnf3 is necessary for tail regeneration. Furthermore, we found that the impaired tail regeneration by c1qtnf3 KD was accompanied by abrogation of macrophage-like cell accumulation at the amputation site. These phenotypes were rescued by macrophage-like cell-specific forced expression of neutrophil cytosolic factor 1, a gene related to effector molecule production in myeloid cells, suggesting that the impaired tail regeneration by c1qtnf3 KD is due to macrophage dysregulation. Our findings suggest that, in Xenopus, putative MSC modulate macrophage function via c1qtnf3 expression for successful tail regeneration.
Heart failure (HF) represents the end stage of cardiovascular disease and is the leading cause of mortality. The objective of this study was to identify potential biomarkers and elucidate the mechanisms underlying the development of HF across diverse populations and among different genders.This study strictly included five datasets of HF with dilated cardiomyopathy: GSE141910 (African American and Caucasian), GSE57345 (USA), GSE21610 (Germany), GSE17800 (Germany), and GSE42955 (Spain). These datasets were merged and normalized as the validation set. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified through differential expression analysis, and module genes were identified using weighted gene co-expression network analysis. Subsequent stratification by gender and ethnicity (African American, Caucasian, German, and Spanish) was performed, followed by immune infiltration analysis. Finally, the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression, support vector machine-recursive feature elimination (SVM-REF), and random forest (RF) models were used to screen for Hub genes and to construct a nomogram predicting the occurrence of HF in different populations based on these Hub genes. Additionally, GSE3585, GSE120895, GSE5406, and GSE1145 serve as the validation set.A total of 650 samples were included (323 controls and 327 HF samples), including 122 African American samples (44 controls and 78 HF samples), 238 Caucasian samples (122 controls and 116 HF samples), 55 German samples (16 controls and 39 HF samples), and 17 Spanish samples (5 controls and 12 HF samples). Functional enrichment analysis demonstrated that the pathogenesis of HF is closely related to the inflammatory response, immune response, vascular regulation, the Wnt signaling pathway, glutathione metabolism, sphingolipid metabolism, and apoptosis. Immune infiltration analysis showed that HF patients exhibited a high abundance of resting mast cells, resting NK cells, CD8T cells, resting memory CD4 T cells, activated memory CD4 T cells, M1 Macrophages, naive CD4 T cells, M0 Macrophages, regulatory T cells (Tregs), follicular helper T cells, Monocytes, and activated NK cells, and a lower abundance of plasma cells, neutrophils, and eosinophils. Multiple machine learning analyses identified MYH6, ASPN, and COL14A1 as Hub genes, NAP1L3, PLEKHH2, MOXD1, CCDC80, CA14, and SERPINE2 as male-specific, CX3CR1, SYN2, and SLC25A18 as female-specific, and NQO1, KAZALD1, and UBASH3A as African American male-specific, SYN2 as African American female-specific, CD83, C1QTNF3, GRB14, and MOXD1 as Caucasian male-specific, CD83, VIT, and PODXL2 as Caucasian female-specific, LSAMP and C14orf132 as German male-specific, and LSAMP and BMP4 as German female-specific, CIART and SNORA80E as Spanish-specific DEGs. Hub genes are strongly associated with M1 macrophages.The biomarkers of HF vary significantly across different populations and genders. MYH6, ASPN, and COL14A1 may be potential biomarkers for HF in dilated cardiomyopathy.Copyright © 2025 Yu, Xue, Ji, Sheng, Gao, Wu and Wu.
Although blood serum proteins play various roles in male reproduction, and imbalances or deficiencies in these proteins can lead to infertility or subfertility, however, the impact of serum proteomics on bull fertility remains underexplored. Using a high-throughput LC-MS/MS approach, the current study examined the proteomic profile of serum from 12 Holstein Friesian crossbred bulls (6 with high fertility, having a conception rate of 62.09 ± 9.64%, and 6 with low fertility, having a conception rate of 15.12 ± 4.94%) with the aim to identify potential proteins associated with bull fertility. A total of 511 proteins were identified in blood serum of bull, with 480 detected in high-fertility bulls and 490 in low-fertility bulls. Of these, 459 proteins were common to both groups, while 21 (4%) were exclusive to high-fertility bulls and 31 (6%) exclusive to low-fertility bulls. Among the shared proteins, 22 were upregulated (log2 fold change > 1) and 25 downregulated (log2 fold change < 1) in low-fertility bulls compared to high-fertility bulls, with 412 proteins exhibiting neutral expression (p < 0.05). The dysregulated proteins identified in low-fertility bulls include C1QTNF3, C-reactive protein, cathepsins, serum amyloid A (SAA1), thrombospondin-4, fructose-bisphosphate aldolase, carbonic anhydrase 2, insulin-like growth factor binding protein 2 (IGFBP2), von Willebrand factor, immunoglobulin J chain, peroxiredoxin-2, CD44, LAMP2, LGMN, SPADH1, KRT17, S100A12, lactotransferrin (LTF), kininogen-1 (KNG1), S100A9, and PLOD1, along with several uncharacterized proteins. Many of these proteins are functionally involved in key biological processes such as lysine metabolism, autophagy, antigen processing and presentation, lysosomal activity, and ECM remodelling. Further, Gene ontology and KEGG pathway analysis revealed dysregulation of proteins associated with the pentose phosphate pathway, estrogen signaling, peroxiredoxin activity, and keratinization in low-fertility bulls. The upregulated proteins were linked to oxidative stress and sperm motility, while the downregulated proteins were associated with antioxidant activity, sperm-egg binding, and hyperactivation. These findings suggest that the proteomic variations in blood serum may underlie the reduced fertility observed in low-fertility bulls. It is concluded that low-fertility bulls exhibit significant dysregulation in several serum proteins associated with the nutrient-autophagy-inflammation-extracellular matrix axis, and the identified proteins may serve as potential biomarkers for selecting high-fertility crossbred bulls for breeding programs.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Background: Osteoarthritis (OA) is a degenerative joint disease with articular cartilage destruction, triggering a pro-inflammatory response. The aim of this study was to screen key genes associated with fibroblasts based on single-cell transcriptomic data and explore their potential value in OA diagnosis. Methods: We obtained RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) and single-cell RNA-seq (scRNA-seq) data of OA from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. The CellChat package for cell-to-cell communication analysis and identification of possible ligand-receptor pairs. High-dimensional weighted gene coexpression network analysis (hdWGCNA) was applied to identify the gene modules, and the key genes in the modules were identified and subjected to functional enrichment analysis. Subsequently, limma packages were used to screen for differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between OA and its control samples. Finally, the R package multipleROC was used to test the diagnostic potential of the screened key genes and to construct an OA diagnostic model using the rms package. Result: Eight cell populations were identified and annotated based on scRNA-seq and the percentage of fibroblasts was the highest. The cell-cell communication analysis has suggested that the highest communication probability was seen between mesenchymal cells/T cells and fibroblasts through the pairs of CD99-CD99. The hdWGCNA analysis suggested that genes of modules M3, M4, M5, M6, and M8 (50 genes in total) were highly expressed in fibroblasts. Thereafter, we obtained 394 DEGs in OA and its control samples and took intersections with 50 modular genes and identified seven central genes (including apolipoprotein D [APOD], biglycan [BGN], MXRA5, THY1, C1QTNF3, dermatopontin [DPT], and osteoglycin [OGN]). The constructed diagnostic models showed good predictive performance with all area under the curve (AUC) values >0.8. Finally, a satisfactory diagnostic model was established using these seven genes, and the differences in mRNA expression levels of these genes in OA and normal tissues were verified. Conclusion: For the first time, our study systematically screened and validated key genes with diagnostic potential based on fibroblast-specific single-cell data in combination with hdWGCNA, providing a new theoretical basis and research direction for molecular typing and diagnosis of OA.Copyright © 2025 Juan Xiao et al. Journal of Immunology Research published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) resistance severely limits clinical outcomes in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), highlighting the urgent need to elucidate its underlying molecular mechanisms. In this study, an unbiased genome-wide CRISPR/Cas9 screening identified novel key factors related to the therapeutic responsiveness of TKI in HCC. By integrating data from 20 datasets encompassing 322 samples, a comprehensive TKI therapeutic response landscape for HCC was constructed. GO and Reactome enrichment analyses revealed that dysregulated RNA splicing, ubiquitination, endocytosis/exocytosis, and cell cycle pathways modulate TKI sensitivity, with close links to antitumor immunity. This study identified GPATCH4, CCT3, C19orf53, UACA, PPM1M, and LIN37 as key genes mediating TKI resistance in HCC. These six genes were found to be highly expressed in HCC and significantly associated with HCC patient prognosis. Drug sensitivity assays identified a significant association between their expression and responsiveness to TKI agents. In-house quantitative real-time PCR validated their differential expression levels in normal hepatocytes, parental HCC cells, and TKI-resistant HCC sublines. ssGSEA, TIMER2, and ESTIMATE analysis revealed that their expression modulates HCC immune infiltration. Bibliometric analysis revealed a growing focus on immunotherapy-based combination regimens to overcome TKI resistance. Ferroptosis, epithelial-mesenchymal transition and hypoxia were new research directions, which were closely related to the pathways investigated in this study. In conclusion, this study identified RNA splicing, ubiquitination, endocytosis/exocytosis, and cell cycle pathways, as well as GPATCH4, CCT3, C19orf53, UACA, PPM1M, and LIN37, as novel directions and targets for TKI-immunotherapy combination strategies, providing new insights for overcoming TKI resistance in HCC.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Colon cancer (CC), a malignant tumor originating from the colonic mucosal epithelium, frequently exhibits limited efficacy in advanced patients undergoing first-line FOLFOX (oxaliplatin, leucovorin, and 5-fluorouracil)-bevacizumab (FOLFOX-Bev) therapy due to resistance. Lysine crotonylation (Kcr), a novel histone post-translational modification, regulates gene transcription and participates in processes such as cell proliferation, metabolic reprogramming, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition, presenting potential research value in CC. However, its impact on FOLFOX-Bev treatment response and immune microenvironment remodeling at the single-cell level remains unclear. Therefore, this study aimed to integrate single-cell transcriptomics with The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) data to systematically characterize the role of Kcr modification in FOLFOX-Bev treatment response and immune microenvironment remodeling in CC, and to construct a Kcr-based prognostic risk model for guiding precision therapy.This study integrated single-cell transcriptome with TCGA CC data [colon adenocarcinoma (COAD)]. Malignant cells were identified using Inference of Copy Number Variations and were stratified into high/low groups based on area under the curve cell-level enrichment analysis scores calculated for a Kcr-related gene set. Differential analysis and cell communication studies were performed. Sensitive/resistant malignant subpopulations were distinguished based on pre-/post-treatment changes, and their Kcr scores were compared to screen differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between "sensitive & high- Kcr" vs. "drug-resistant & low-Kcr" cells. In TCGA-COAD, Kcr single-sample Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (ssGSEA) scores, weighted gene co-expression network analysis modules, and single-cell DEGs were intersected. Utilizing the intersecting genes, a prognostic risk model was constructed via univariate-Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO)-multivariate Cox regression. Immune infiltration, immunotherapy response, mutational landscape, and pathway enrichment features were assessed between high-/low-risk groups.Focusing on "sensitive & high-Kcr" vs. "drug-resistant & low-Kcr" cells, 387 key genes were identified. Univariate-LASSO-multivariate Cox regression identified four core biomarkers (USP53, UACA, C7orf50, and IDH2) to form the risk prognostic model, which demonstrated good predictive performance in two independent datasets. The two risk groups exhibited remarkably different immune characteristics: the high-risk group showed poorer predicted immunotherapy response and lower mutation rates. Six categories of differential candidate drugs were screened (e.g., Erlotinib_1168, AZD3759_1915, Dasatinib_1079, and Sepantronium.bromide_1941).This study is the first to reveal, at single-cell resolution, that Kcr modification drives FOLFOX-Bev resistance in CC by reshaping the immune microenvironment. The prognostic model, based on key genes (USP53/UACA/C7orf50/IDH2), accurately stratifies patient risk. This model provides novel insights for targeted therapy and immune-combination strategies in CC.© AME Publishing Company.
Pyropia haitanensis (P. haitanensis) is a commercially significant alga in China, and the vitality of its industry is closely associated with coastal economic stability and food safety. Intensifying coastal pollution and deteriorating aquaculture conditions have exacerbated heavy metal accumulation in P. haitanensis, threatening sustainable development and limiting industry viability. Conventional processing methods exhibit substantial limitations in heavy metal removal, nutrient retention, and preservation of algal tissue structure, restricting their ability to meet market demands. To address this challenge, we developed a synergistic ultrasound-assisted citric acid treatment technology. In this process, ultrasound facilitates the release of heavy metal from algal tissue, while citric acid chelates and removes them, termed the "Release-Chelation" effect. The approach aims to efficiently remove heavy metal while maintaining P. haitanensis quality and nutritional value. Under optimized conditions of citric acid concentration, sonication time, and power, heavy metal residues were effectively reduced below national regulatory standards. SEM and FT-IR analyses indicate that removal occurs with minimal structural damage. Nutritional analyses revealed slight reductions in crude protein and amino acid content, yet overall nutritional quality remained satisfactory. These results demonstrate that the technology preserves the edible value of P. haitanensis while efficiently removing heavy metals, highlighting its potential to advance the algae industry toward safer and more sustainable practices.
Gastric cancer (GC) is characterized by pronounced molecular and clinical heterogeneity, creating major challenges for therapeutic decision-making. Limitations in current molecular classification hinder the development of personalized therapies, underscoring the need for improved diagnostic and prognostic frameworks. we conducted an integrated multi-omics analysis of bulk, single-cell, and spatial transcriptomic data to systematically characterize three key programmed cell death pathways-pyroptosis, apoptosis, and necroptosis (collectively abbreviated as PAN). A scoring-based clustering framework integrating multiple machine learning algorithms was developed to define high-resolution molecular subtypes and construct a deep learning signature. A hybrid CNN+BiLSTM model with cross-fusion attention was applied for transcriptomic feature extraction and subtype classification, achieving superior performance compared with existing approaches. Validation in the TCGA cohort confirmed the robustness and biological relevance of our model. Among the identified subtypes, Subtype 2 showed the most favorable prognosis. We further established a nine-gene prognostic signature with strong predictive value. High-risk patients exhibited poor survival, enhanced immune infiltration, and potential sensitivity to AKT inhibitors, with several drugs, including gefitinib and paclitaxel, identified as promising candidates. Experimental validation was conducted using the Human Protein Atlas (HPA) and RT-qPCR in clinical samples. CFLAR and TNFSF13B were upregulated and PDK4 downregulated in GC, while UACA showed no significant change. Additional prognostic genes (DFFB, PSMB6, GLP1R, HDAC9, BACH2) displayed expression patterns largely consistent across HPA, TCGA, and RT-qPCR, with minor discrepancies likely due to sample size. This study integrates multi-omics and deep learning with experimental validation, providing insights into programmed cell death regulation and offering robust biomarkers and therapeutic targets for GC.Copyright © 2025 Jin, Chang, Chen, Jiang, Chen and Lu.
Familial non-medullary thyroid cancer, defined as two or more affected first-degree relatives, accounts for 3%-9% of thyroid cancers. It is associated with more aggressive cancer, early age at diagnosis, multifocality, and increased risk of metastasis and recurrence. Although no high penetrance predisposing gene has been identified at present, the estimated contribution of genetics is significant. Our study explored five families presenting FNMTC using Whole-Exome Sequencing and found three candidate genes: TELO2 in one family, UACA and BCL2L11 in another. All of these tumor suppressor genes are expressed in the thyroid, exhibit under-expression in tumor tissue compared to healthy tissue both in silico and in our samples, and two of them are known to be involved in thyroid carcinogenesis via the FOXO3A pathway. Functional analysis to validate these candidate genes in thyroid cancer cells showed that one of the three, BCL2L11, has a tumor suppressor effect on proliferation and apoptosis. Their impact on hereditary predisposition to thyroid cancer, as well as their combined effects, requires further study. Indeed, a case-control study would be essential to determine the diagnostic utility of their routine analysis.© 2025 The Author(s). Clinical Genetics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Background Despite recent breakthroughs in genetic profiling, breast cancer metastasis remains a considerable challenge affecting treatment and overall patient survival. Therefore, the discovery of target alternatives to restrain metastasis is urgently needed. In the current study, we aimed to identify novel targets driving metastasis and elucidate the underlying mechanisms. Methods We initially identified differentially expressed genes between primary breast tumors and metastatic breast cancer patients using datasets from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. Subsequently, we validated these findings by examining the changes in gene expression and their direction in external datasets. Furthermore, we identified the significantly enriched pathways associated with gene expression. We analyzed PFKP expression patterns in 100 samples (normal, primary breast tumor, and metastasis) using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), and survival analyses were performed. Results We identified 34 differentially expressed genes in metastatic breast tumors, with CCDC6, PKIA, UACA, and PFKP significantly upregulated (p < 0.05). PFKP was highly expressed in metastasis, negatively correlated with ER/PR/HER2 status, and linked to glycolysis-related genes (ENO1, PGM1, LDHB, and PGK1). Gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) highlighted its role in glucose metabolism, hypoxia, and angiogenesis. qRT-PCR confirmed PFKP (p < 0.001) and Ki67 (p < 0.001) upregulation in 100 breast cancer samples. PFKP correlated with Ki67, and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis (area under the curve (AUC) > 71%) indicated a strong predictive value. Higher PFKP expression was associated with poor survival, supporting its role as a prognostic marker. Conclusion The current study showed that PFKP promotes tumor metastasis through hypoxia-mediated altered glycolysis and can be a potential prognostic marker used to identify breast cancer metastasis.Copyright © 2025, Anwar et al.
Bone homeostasis and skeletal fragility are sexually dimorphic in humans, with postmenopausal women at the highest risk of osteoporosis. Here, we identify X-linked methyltransferase SUV39H1 as a suppressor of osteogenesis in females. Both experiments in primary samples and Suv39h1-deficient mice show enhanced osteogenesis upon SUV39H1 ablation with gender differences. Transcriptomic analysis reveals the aberrant NF-κB activation and inflammation signatures independent of H3K9me3 underlying SUV39H1-inhibited osteogenesis. Surprisingly, SUV39H1 shows a unique cytoplasmic distribution in female osteoblasts and is directly engaged in inflammation response by catalyzing IκBα methylation at lysine 38 adjacent to its degradation motif. This SUV39H1-deposited methylation mark signals UACA binding and subsequently restrains bone formation by provoking IκBα destabilization. Importantly, intrinsically improved osteogenesis by Suv39h1 depletion ameliorates ovariectomy-induced osteoporotic bone loss. Together with the chronologically elevated female SUV39H1 levels, these data identify an SUV39H1-governed molecular amplifier in sexually divergent skeletal remodeling and highlight its potential as therapeutic avenue for osteoporosis.Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
BACKGROUND: PANoptosis has the features of pyroptosis, apoptosis, and necroptosis. Numerous studies have confirmed the diverse roles of various types of cell death in acute liver failure (ALF), but limited attention has been given to the crosstalk among them. In this study, we aimed to explore the role of PANoptosis in ALF and uncover new targets for its prevention or treatment. METHODS: Three ALF-related datasets (GSE14668, GSE62029, and GSE74000) were downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Hub genes were identified through intersecting DEGs, genes obtained from weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), and genes related to PANoptosis. Gene Ontology (GO), Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG), protein‍‒‍protein interaction (PPI) analyses and gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) were performed to determine functional roles. Verification was performed using an ALF mouse model. RESULTS: Our results showed that expression of seven hub genes (B-cell lymphoma-2-modifying factor (BMF), B-cell lymphoma-2-interacting protein 3-like (BNIP3L), Caspase-1 (CASP1), receptor-interacting protein kinase 3 (RIPK3), uveal autoantigen with coiled-coil domains and ankyrin repeats protein (UACA), uncoordinated-5 homolog B receptor (UNC5B), and Z-DNA-binding protein 1 (ZBP1)) was up-regulated in liver samples of patients. However, in the ALF mouse model, the expression of BNIP3L, RIPK3, phosphorylated RIPK3 (P-RIPK3), UACA, and cleaved caspase-1 was up-regulated, while the expression of CASP1 and UNC5B was down-regulated. The expression of ZBP1 and BMF increased only during the development of ALF, and there was no significant change in the end stage. Immunofluorescence of mouse liver tissue showed that macrophages expressed all seven markers. Western blot results showed that pyroptosis, apoptosis, and necroptosis were always involved in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)/ d-galactosamine (d-gal)‍-induced ALF mice. The ALF cell model showed that bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) form PANoptosomes after LPS stimulation. CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that PANoptosis of macrophages promotes the development of ALF. The seven new ALF biomarkers identified and validated in this study may contribute to further investigation of diagnostic markers or novel therapeutic targets of ALF.
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a chronic, progressive lung disease. PANoptosis, a unique inflammatory programmed cell death, it manifests as the simultaneous activation of signaling markers for pyroptosis, apoptosis, and necroptosis. However, research on the role of PANoptosis in the development of IPF is currently limited. This study was aimed to explore the role of PANoptosis in IPF.In this study, we first identified PANDEGs using the GEO database. Exploring potential biological functions and immune cell infiltration abundance through GO/KEGG enrichment analysis and Immune infiltration analysis. Through machine learning and experimental validation, we identified four diagnostic genes and four prognostic genes associated with PANoptosis, leading to the development of a diagnostic and prognostic model for IPF. Our single-cell analysis further explored the role of these PANoptosis prognostic genes. Additionally, the L1000FWD application was used to identify small molecule drugs, based on the four PANoptosis prognostic genes, and confirmed their efficacy through molecular docking.104 PANoptosis differentially expressed genes were identified from IPF and normal tissues. Enrichment analysis indicated that these genes were associated with immune-inflammatory response pathway. We developed a diagnostic and prognostic models based on PANoptosis related genes. The diagnostic model included AKT1, PDCD4, PSMA2, and PPP3CB. Conversely, the prognostic model included TNFRSF12A, DAPK2, UACA, and DSP. External dataset validation and qPCR showed the reliability of most of the conclusions. Additionally, potential therapeutic drugs, including Metergoline, Candesartan, and Selumetinib, were identified based on four prognostic genes. Molecular docking shows that these drugs have good binding ability with their targets.Importantly, our findings provide scientific evidence for the diagnosis and prognostic biomarkers of IPF patients, as well as small molecule therapeutic drugs.© 2024 Xiang et al.
Individuals with type 1 diabetes (T1D) carry a markedly increased risk of stroke, with distinct clinical and neuroimaging characteristics as compared to those without diabetes. Using whole-exome or whole-genome sequencing of 1,051 individuals with T1D, we aimed to find rare and low-frequency genomic variants associated with stroke in T1D. We analysed the genome comprehensively with single-variant analyses, gene aggregate analyses, and aggregate analyses on genomic windows, enhancers and promoters. In addition, we attempted replication in T1D using a genome-wide association study (N = 3,945) and direct genotyping (N = 3,263), and in the general population from the large-scale population-wide FinnGen project and UK Biobank summary statistics. We identified a rare missense variant on SREBF1 exome-wide significantly associated with stroke (rs114001633, p.Pro227Leu, p-value = 7.30 × 10-8), which replicated for hemorrhagic stroke in T1D. Using gene aggregate analysis, we identified exome-wide significant genes: ANK1 and LRRN1 displayed replication evidence in T1D, and LRRN1, HAS1 and UACA in the general population (UK Biobank). Furthermore, we performed sliding-window analyses and identified 14 genome-wide significant windows for stroke on 4q33-34.1, of which two replicated in T1D, and a suggestive genomic window on LINC01500, which replicated in T1D. Finally, we identified a suggestively stroke-associated TRPM2-AS promoter (p-value = 5.78 × 10-6) with borderline significant replication in T1D, which we validated with an in vitro cell-based assay. Due to the rarity of the identified genetic variants, future replication of the genomic regions represented here is required with sequencing of individuals with T1D. Nevertheless, we here report the first genome-wide analysis on stroke in individuals with diabetes.© 2024. The Author(s).
Globally, among gynecological malignancies, ovarian cancer (OC) stands as an important factor contributing to mortality. E3 ubiquitin ligase activity is a common characteristic found in the tripartite motif (TRIM) proteins, contributing significantly to post-translational modifications of various proteins. Among these TRIM proteins, TRIM15 has been linked to multiple cancer types. Nevertheless, the function of TRIM15 concerning OC has yet to be elucidated. We aimed to explore the role of TRIM15 in OC and shed light on the underlying mechanisms thereof.A bioinformatics analysis was conducted to investigate the variance in TRIM15 expression between normal ovarian tissues and OC tissues, and to explore the prognostic significance of TRIM15 in patients with OC. TRIM15 protein expression in OC tissues was detected using immunofluorescence. The impact of TRIM15 silencing and overexpression on the proliferation and migration of OC cells was assessed through various functional experiments, such as CCK-8, colony formation, and Transwell assays. Mass spectrometry analysis was performed to identify TRIM15-interacting substrates. The mechanism underlying substrate ubiquitination mediated by TRIM15 was further explored.Based on The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) data and immunofluorescence analysis, OC tissues exhibited significant upregulation of TRIM15 expression. si-RNA-mediated silencing of TRIM15 suppressed the in vitro proliferation and migration of OVCAR3 and A2780 cells. Paxillin was selected as an interacting protein with TRIM15 by mass spectrometry. Mechanically, we discovered that TRIM15 mediated the ubiquitination of Paxillin via Lys11- and Lys29-linked polyubiquitin chains. Subsequent co-IP experiments revealed that TRIM15 could also enhance the interactions between Paxillin and its tyrosine kinase, FAK, thereby promoting the phosphorylation of Paxillin.We revealed a previously unknown mechanism by which TRIM15 ubiquitinates and phosphorylates Paxillin to promote OC progression. These findings suggest that targeting TRIM15 holds promise as a therapeutic approach to treat OC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Hypopharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma (HPSCC) is a highly aggressive malignancy with a poor prognosis. This study elucidates the role of the E3 ubiquitin ligase Tripartite Motif Containing 15 (Trim15) and its substrate, mitochondrial voltage-dependent anion channel 3 (VDAC3), in regulating autophagy, mitophagy, and chemoresistance in HPSCC. We found that Trim15 is significantly downregulated in HPSCC tissues and inhibits cell proliferation and migration in FaDu and Detroit 562 cells. Trim15 stabilizes VDAC3 via K6-linked ubiquitination, thereby suppressing autophagy and mitophagy while elevating reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels. VDAC3 knockdown enhances autophagy and mitophagy, concomitantly reducing ROS and promoting cancer cell survival. High-concentration ethanol suppresses Trim15 and VDAC3 expression, suggesting an adaptive response to oxidative stress. Notably, chloroquine (CQ), an autophagy inhibitor, enhances HPSCC sensitivity to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), with synergistic effects observed in xenograft models. These findings establish the Trim15-VDAC3-mitophagy axis as a critical regulator of HPSCC progression and chemoresistance, offering a novel therapeutic target for augmenting the efficacy of autophagy inhibitors in combination with standard chemotherapy.© 2026. The Author(s).
The advancement of novel pharmaceuticals and targeted therapeutic approaches is considerably obstructed by the insufficient comprehension of the intricate pathophysiology of colorectal cancer (CRC). The therapeutic effectiveness of tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI)-based systemic treatment for advanced CRC is limited by medication resistance. Research has revealed that therapeutic strategies aimed at the myosin light chain kinase family member 4 (MYLK4) and its corresponding response element can suppress tumour proliferation and yield significant clinical advantages for cancer patients. This study reveals that MYLK4-mediated lipid metabolic reprogramming confers resistance to TKI-induced ferroptosis in CRC. MYLK4 directly interacts with tripartite motif containing 15 (TRIM15) in a way reliant on mouse double minute 2 homolog (MDM2), hence enhancing p53 ubiquitination and degradation. Significantly, p53 suppresses the transcription of stearoyl-CoA desaturase 1 (SCD1) through binding to its promoter. Elevated SCD1 levels correlate with increased MYLK4 levels, and their concurrent expression forecasts regorafenib resistance and poor prognosis in colorectal cancer. Regorafenib and SCD1 inhibitor (SCD1 inhibitor-3) co-treatment demonstrate promising anti-tumor efficacy in organoids and xenografted tumours derived from wild-type p53 colorectal cancer patients. Patients with colorectal cancer exhibiting elevated MYLK4 activity and wild-type p53 may derive clinical benefits from this combination therapy. These results suggest that MYLK4 may serve as a promising therapeutic target for the treatment of colorectal cancer.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Axin1 plays a critical role in regulating the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway and cancer progression, and its polymerization is indispensable for the assembly of the β-catenin destruction complex. However, the mechanisms that control Axin1 polymerization are limited. Here, we reveal that TRIM15 interferes with the polymerization of Axin1, thereby promoting Wnt activation and colorectal cancer growth. Mechanistically, TRIM15 strongly interacts with Axin1 through its coiled-coil domain to disrupt the polymerization among Axin1 molecules. Manipulation of TRIM15 expression dramatically weakens Wnt signaling, cell proliferation, and tumor growth. Furthermore, conditional genetic ablation of Trim15 in mice inhibits tumor formation in both AOM/DSS-induced and ApcMin/+ colorectal cancer models. Notably, TRIM15 is also a Wnt target gene that forms a positive feedback loop in colon cancer cells. TRIM15 is highly expressed and is positively associated with β-catenin in colorectal cancer. More importantly, the simultaneous increase in Axin1 protein levels and its polymerization can synergistically induce apoptosis. Together, our study uncovers an important regulatory mechanism of Axin1 polymerization and implies that targeting TRIM15 provides a therapeutic strategy for colorectal cancer based on inhibiting Wnt signaling.© 2025. The Author(s).
Medication-related osteonecrosis of the jaw (MRONJ) is a severe adverse effect of antiresorptive agents, including bisphosphonates (BPs) and denosumab (DMB). We conducted a case-control epigenome-wide association study (EWAS) of 24 cancer patients treated with BPs or BPs + DMB using the Infinium® MethylationEPIC v2.0 to explore epigenetic differences associated with MRONJ. Differentially methylated positions (DMPs) and regions (DMRs) were assessed across three analyses: MRONJ vs. controls (main), BPs-MRONJ vs. BPs-controls, and BPs/DMB-MRONJ vs. BPs/DMB-controls. Eight plasma bone biomarkers were quantified by Luminex and correlated with top methylation sites. We identified 10 DMPs and 4 DMRs at suggestive significance (p < 1 × 10-5). cg1913766 in the NOP56 promoter was hypomethylated in the main analysis (p = 2.19 × 10-7) and in BPs-MRONJ (p = 4.80 × 10-6), correlating with osteocalcin (p = 0.02 and 0.03, respectively). TNXB cg21289669 was hypermethylated in the main analyses (p = 6.31 × 10-6), and TNXB locus formed a DMR (p = 3.30 × 10-10) in the main and BPs-MRONJ analyses (p = 2.76 × 10-7). cg11392877 in PDE8A was hypomethylated in BPs/DMB-MRONJ (p = 5.35 × 10-7). TRIM15 was a significant DMR in BPs-MRONJ and the main analysis (p = 3.30 × 10-10). TRIM15, TNXB, and PDE8A regulate collagen I, while NOP56 supports ribosome biogenesis, potentially contributing to MRONJ. Given the small sample size, these findings are preliminary and validation in larger studies is warranted.
Pancreatic cancer is among the most lethal cancers with a 5-year survival rate of only 13%. Due to its late-stage diagnosis and high metastatic potential, there is a critical need to better understand its molecular mechanisms to develop effective treatments. Tripartite motif containing 15 (TRIM15), a member of the TRIM protein family, plays a role in tumor progression, immune evasion, and lipid metabolism reprogramming, but its role in apoptosis and immune-related pathways remains unclear. Moreover, immune checkpoint proteins such as PD-L1 and VISTA have been associated with cancer progression and poor survival by contributing significantly to the tumor microenvironment. In this context, in order to better understand the effects of TRIM15 and its neighboring genes on pancreatic cancer, other genes interacting with these genes were obtained from NCBI and BioGRID databases. In the topological analysis of the protein-protein interaction network, 191 proteins in which TRIM15 is involved were identified and the expression profiles of these proteins in pancreatic cancer were analyzed using the Expression Atlas database. These analyses revealed 73 differentially expressed proteins compared to normal individuals, and high accuracy (> 0.90) was achieved with machine learning algorithms. These proteins were identified as drug targets and 50 drug candidates were identified through the L1000CSD2 database. As a result of the TF-IDF calculations performed for innovation, impartozole with a TF-IDF value of 0 was selected as a potential drug candidate for the treatment of pancreatic cancer. Importin-β1, which is overexpressed in many cancers, is associated with tumor progression and its inhibitor, importazole, exhibits antitumor activity by inducing G2/M cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. Here, TRIM15 regulation, apoptosis mechanism and immune checkpoint mechanisms were investigated to reveal the role of importazole on the underlying mechanisms of pancreatic cancer progression. The findings show that importazole administration suppressed the expression level of TRIM15 and VISTA in AsPC-1 pancreatic cancer cells and triggered the apoptosis mechanism. These results suggest that importazole may be a potential therapeutic target for TRIM15 and VISTA in pancreatic cancer and may contribute to the development of innovative strategies for cancer treatment.
Obesity has been identified as an independent risk factor for gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) and esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC). Oxidative stress and inflammation driven by chronic GERD are the main causes of the tumorigenesis of EAC, but the underlying mechanism remains elusive. Here, the inflammation-upregulated E3 ligase, tripartite motif 15 (TRIM15), is identified as a key driver of obesity-associated EAC. TRIM15 promotes the degradation of YY2 is demonstrated through the ubiquitin-proteasome system, which in turn dysregulates lipid metabolism and enhances the proliferation of EAC cells. Furthermore, YY2 transcriptionally is shown that increases FOXRED1 expression. FOXRED1 is subsequently identified as an essential effector for the TRIM15-induced dysregulation of lipid and energy metabolism in EAC cells. Thus, a novel obesity-associated TRIM15/YY2/FOXRED1 axis is identified that contributes to the proliferation of EAC. Given that lipid metabolism regulates ferroptosis by controlling cellular processes associated with phospholipid peroxidation. The TRIM15/YY2/FOXRED1 axis demonstrates that it modulates SLC3A2 expression via the mTOR/c-MYC pathway, thereby regulating GPX4 levels to influence EAC sensitivity to ferroptosis-inducing compounds and proposing a therapeutic strategy for EAC.© 2025 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Tripartite motif (TRIM) proteins constitute one of the largest subfamilies of RING-type E3 ubiquitin ligases and are attractive targets for the development of novel degraders that exploit the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. More than half of all TRIM family members contain a PRYSPRY domain, a potentially druggable protein interaction module, located in their C-terminal region. Here, we have determined crystal structures of the PRYSPRY domains from nine TRIM family proteins: TRIM1 (MID2), TRIM9, TRIM10, TRIM11, TRIM15, TRIM16, TRIM18 (MID1), TRIM36, and TRIM67. These structures reveal conservation of the overall β-sandwich topology, despite low sequence conservation, with a unique subdomain swap observed in TRIM11. Significant variations were found in the loops flanking the canonical substrate-binding site, which modulate the shape and electrostatic properties of the binding pocket, hinting at substantial differences in substrate specificity and binding modes among family members. TRIM36 features a unique structural motif between the canonical β-strands 2 and 3, leading to the formation of a dimer, with the canonical substrate-binding site partially occluded by the dimerization motif. In addition, we mapped the locations of missense mutations in MID1 associated with X-linked Opitz syndrome, suggesting that some of these mutations impair the conformational stability of the protein. Taken together, our data provide intriguing insights into the structural and functional divergence of TRIM family PRYSPRY domains, their potential druggability and substrate recognition, and the challenges of ligand design.© 2025 The Author(s).
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a prevalent joint disease characterized by pain, disability, and loss of physical function, posing a challenge to public health. However, molecular mechanisms of OA pathogenesis have not been fully described. We report that tripartite motif containing 15 (TRIM15) is a regulator in chondrocyte senescence and OA. Our study revealed heightened expression of TRIM15 in chondrocytes of senescent cartilage from patients with OA and in aged wild-type mice. Using gain- and loss-of-function studies, we found that TRIM15 facilitated human chondrocyte senescence. Conditional deletion of Trim15 in mouse chondrocytes severely impaired skeletal growth, partially because of impaired embryonic chondrocyte senescence. Compared with conditionally knocked out Col2a1-CreERT2/Trim15flox/flox mice, Trim15flox/flox control mice exhibited accelerated OA phenotypes, increased senescence markers, and senescence-associated secretory phenotype during aging. Mechanistically, TRIM15 bound with yes-associated protein (YAP) and mediated K48-linked YAP ubiquitination at K254, which interrupted the interaction between YAP and angiomotin, leading to enhanced YAP nuclear translocation. Dysregulation of TRIM15-YAP and transcriptional coactivator with PDZ-binding motif (TAZ) signaling promoted OA progression in both the surgery-induced and natural aging-induced mouse OA model. Intra-articular injection of adeno-associated virus 5 (AAV5)-Trim15 shRNA decelerated OA progression in mice. In particular, YAP and TAZ protein amounts were increased in chondrocytes of patients with OA. Our preclinical results demonstrated that the AAV5-TRIM15 shRNA treatment protected human OA explants against degeneration through inhibiting chondrocyte senescence. Together, our findings underscore the potential of targeting TRIM15 in reshaping the aging cartilage microenvironment and suggest a promising therapeutic avenue for OA.
The tripartite motif (TRIM) family member TRIM15 is an E3 ubiquitin ligase that is abnormally expressed in a variety of tumors, but its role and mechanism in high-grade serous ovarian cancer (HGSOC) are unclear. Here, we found for the first time that TRIM15 was upregulated in HGSOC and was associated with poor overall survival. Functional experiments showed that TRIM15 drove the proliferation of HGSOC cells and inhibited the apoptosis of tumor cells in vivo and in vitro. In terms of mechanism, we found that TRIM15 contributed to the malignant proliferation of HGSOC cells by promoting the activation of AKT and that there was a direct binding between them. TRIM15 induced lysine-63 (K63) ubiquitination of AKT through its Ring domain, which in turn activated the AKT signaling pathway. In addition, TRIM15-mediated K63 ubiquitination occurs mainly in the pleckstrin homology (PH) domain of AKT. We further identified other proteins and their functions regulated by TRIM15 in HGSOC cells by ubiquitin proteomic analysis. Furthermore, hypoxia-inducible factor-1α promoted TRIM15 transcriptional activation by binding to the hypoxia response elements of the TRIM15 promoter. Our study suggests that TRIM15 induces K63 ubiquitination of the AKT PH domain through its Ring domain and activates the AKT signaling pathway, thereby promoting HGSOC progression. In addition, the abnormally high expression of TRIM15 was associated with the hypoxic microenvironment of HGSOC tissues.© 2025 UICC.
A meta-analysis identifies NLRP2, Th2 signalling and ERVW-1 as key dysregulated pathways in asthma, highlighting novel targets while underscoring the need for phenotype-specific and single-cell insights https://bit.ly/4sOYUrz.Copyright ©The authors 2026.
Airway smooth muscle (ASM) cells are central to bronchoconstriction and airway hyperresponsiveness in asthma, yet a comprehensive view of their transcriptional landscape has been lacking.We performed a meta-analysis of publicly available transcriptomic datasets comparing ASM cells isolated from individuals with asthma with those from healthy controls. We included studies that met predefined inclusion criteria, comprising primary human ASM cells isolated from 26 asthma and 32 healthy control subjects. Each dataset was analysed separately, followed by meta-analysis of differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Heterogenicity assessment, pathway enrichment and single-sample gene set enrichment analysis were performed. DEGs were further matched with genome-wide association studies (GWASs) of asthma.This study identified 150 genes that were consistently dysregulated in asthma-derived ASM cells, compared with those from healthy controls. NLRP2 showed the greatest upregulation in asthma as measured by pooled log2 fold change (effect size) in asthma, whereas ABI3 was the most downregulated. Pathway analysis highlighted prominent perturbation of interleukin (IL)-4 and IL-13 signalling. 13 DEGs overlapped with loci reported earlier in a GWAS asthma database, which further underscores our findings.To the best of our knowledge, this is the first meta-analysis of ASM transcriptomes to delineate a core set of genes and pathways underlying asthma-related airway remodelling. These findings refine our understanding of ASM-specific molecular networks and may guide targeted therapeutics for asthma in future.Copyright ©The authors 2026.
One of the most common chronic diseases is obesity. Disturbances in circadian rhythm and sleep quality are common in these people. Genes related to circadian rhythm control are also disrupted. One of the methods of controlling and reducing obesity is to intervene in the individual's diet, and one of the alternative methods to the conventional low-calorie diet is the use of fasting diets, including time-restricted eating (TRE), which can have effects on the expression of a circadian rhythm genes, the circadian rhythm status, and the quality of sleep. This randomized controlled trial (RCT) will be aimed to examine the effect of the TRE diet in comparison with an energy-restricted diet (ERD) on the expression of basic helix-loop-helix ARNT-Like-1 (BMAL-1) and micro ribonucleic acid (miRNA)-let-7f-1-3p genes, circadian rhythm status, and sleep quality in women with obesity.This study will be conducted on 42 obese women. Participants will be randomly assigned to receive either 16:8 TRE (fasting from 8 to 12 PM the next day) or an ERD (55% carbohydrate, 30% fat, 15% protein) diet for 12 weeks. Gene expression, circadian rhythm status, sleep quality, anthropometric measurements, and metabolic evaluations will be assessed before and after the intervention. Dietary evaluations will be performed at baseline, middle, and end of the study.Since circadian rhythm-related gene expression has a role in circadian rhythm and ultimately obesity regulation, it seems that TRE, as a dietary approach, can affect these gene expressions.Iranian Registry of Clinical Trials (IRCT20100123003140N25), which was registered and approved on 28 July 2025 (https://irct.behdasht.gov.ir/user/trial/84484/view).© 2026. The Author(s).
Early embryonic arrest is one of the reasons for the recurrent IVF/ICSI failures. We aimed to identify pathogenic mutations in female infertility patients with early embryonic arrest.Whole-exome sequencing was performed in the affected patients. Sanger sequencing was used on patients and their families to confirm the identified mutations. Wild-type and mutant plasmids were constructed and transfected into HeLa cells to investigate the functional effect of the identified mutations.We identified three novel homozygous mutations of NLRP2 (p.Arg81*, p.Lys312del, and p.Val316Ala) and compound heterozygous mutations with a novel frameshift mutation and a novel missense mutation of NLRP7 (p.Gln315Arg fs*5 and p.Ile830Thr) in the affected individuals with early embryonic arrest. Western blot in HeLa cells showed the mutations caused a significant decrease in NLRP2 and NLRP7 to a varying degree, which impaired the stability of the proteins. Immunofluorescent staining showed some mutations altered the localization of NLRP2 and NLRP7.This study identified novel mutations in NLRP2 and NLRP7, expanding the mutational and phenotypic spectrum of NLRP2 and NLRP7. Our findings also establish the foundation for genetic diagnosis in recurrent IVF/ICSI failure patients with early embryonic arrest.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
CDK4/6 inhibitors induce G1/S cell-cycle arrest in bladder cancer; however, adaptive resistance limits their therapeutic efficacy. The role of the m6A reader IGF2BP3 in regulating sensitivity to CDK4/6 inhibition remains largely unknown.Transcriptomic profiling was performed in palbociclib-treated bladder cancer cell lines (T24, RT112, and UMUC-3) to identify m6A regulators associated with drug response. The expression and clinical significance of IGF2BP3 were evaluated using The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) data and an independent clinical cohort. Gain- and loss-of-function assays were conducted to investigate the effects of IGF2BP3 on cell proliferation and cell-cycle progression. Mechanistic studies, including RNA-binding, mRNA stability, ubiquitination, and in vivo tumorigenesis assays, were performed to elucidate the underlying regulatory network.IGF2BP3 was identified as the only m6A regulator differentially expressed following palbociclib treatment. IGF2BP3 expression was significantly elevated in bladder cancer tissues compared with normal tissues and was associated with poor prognosis and Ki67 positivity. Functionally, IGF2BP3 overexpression (OE) promoted G1/S transition, increased MYC and downstream cell-cycle regulators, and partially rescued palbociclib-induced cell-cycle arrest, whereas IGF2BP3 knockdown (KD) suppressed cell proliferation in an MYC-dependent manner. Mechanistically, IGF2BP3 bound to MYC mRNA in an m6A-dependent manner and enhanced its stability. Furthermore, MKRN2 was identified as an E3 ubiquitin ligase that directly interacted with IGF2BP3, promoted its ubiquitination, and facilitated its proteasomal degradation. In vivo, MKRN2 co-overexpression attenuated IGF2BP3-driven tumor growth and synergized with palbociclib to maximally suppress tumor volume, reduce MYC and Ki67 expression, and induce apoptosis.These findings establish the MKRN2-IGF2BP3-MYC axis as a critical regulator of CDK4/6 inhibitor sensitivity in bladder cancer. Targeting IGF2BP3 or enhancing MKRN2 activity may represent a promising strategy to overcome adaptive resistance and improve the therapeutic efficacy of CDK4/6 inhibitors.
Stress granules (SGs) are transient cytoplasmic biomolecular condensates that play a role in the cellular response to proteotoxic stress. It has been previously shown that ubiquitination regulates SG dynamics; however, the specific mechanisms by which ubiquitin affects SGs are not fully understood. Here, using proximity proteomics, we discover that the recruitment of several E3 ubiquitin ligases, VCP cofactors and HSP70 to SGs is dependent on the activity of the E1 ubiquitin ligase UBA1. The RNA-binding E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase Makorin 2 (MKRN2) is strongly depleted from SGs in the absence of UBA1 function. MKRN2 promotes both the proper formation of SGs and their disassembly following stress recovery, by preventing the accumulation of misfolding-prone defective ribosomal products (DRiPs) within SGs. Therefore, MKRN2 is a novel regulator of SGs that mediates the maintenance of granulostasis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42292355 is a review article
Benign adult familial myoclonus epilepsy (BAFME) is caused by intronic TTTCA and TTTTA repeat expansions in SAMD12 and other genes; the neuronal basis of cortical hyperexcitability, however, remains unclear. We generated induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived glutamatergic and GABAergic neurons from three BAFME1 patients and examined functional and transcriptomic phenotypes. Patient-derived neurons retained the pathogenic repeat expansions and showed a tendency toward upstream intronic RNA accumulation. Calcium imaging revealed increased spontaneous Ca2 + transient frequency in both neuronal subtypes, indicating heightened activity. Pharmacological profiling demonstrated attenuated responses to calcium-permeable α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA)-type glutamate receptor (CP-AMPAR) blockade and GABAA receptor antagonism in GABAergic neurons, suggesting altered inhibitory signaling. RNA sequencing revealed transcriptomic alterations without differential expression of ion channels and neurotransmitter receptors. In glutamatergic neurons, ATF4-regulated genes, including SLC7A5 encoding LAT1, a Kv1.2 channel modulator, were downregulated. Reduced SLC7A5 expression was validated at both mRNA and protein levels. In GABAergic neurons, synapse-associated genes PTPRD and GPC6 were upregulated. TCERG1L and NLRP2 were suppressed across both neuronal subtypes. These findings suggest subtype-specific alterations may contribute to neuronal hyperexcitability in BAFME and provide a platform for mechanistic studies of repeat expansion-associated epilepsies.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The circadian clock regulates multiple physiological processes in the skin, including local hormone synthesis and pigmentation. However, how circadian regulation interacts with epidermal endocrine signalling in melanocytes remains unclear. In this study, we investigated whether core circadian regulators influence melanogenesis in human melanocytes and explored their potential link to epidermal endocrine factors and pigmentary disease. Primary normal human epidermal melanocytes were analysed following siRNA-mediated knockdown of the core clock genes basic helix-loop-helix ARNT-like protein 1 (BMAL1) and CLOCK circadian regulator (CLOCK). Silencing either gene significantly reduced melanin synthesis and altered the expression of hormone-related factors. Notably, expression of the vitamin D-metabolizing enzyme CYP27A1 was markedly decreased after BMAL1 or CLOCK knockdown, changes that were associated with reduced melanogenic activity. Consistently, immunohistochemical analysis revealed diminished CYP27A1 expression in melanocytes within vitiligo lesions. These findings demonstrate that disruption of circadian clock regulators impairs melanogenesis and is accompanied by alterations in vitamin D-related components. Our results suggest that circadian regulation may modulate pigmentation partly through effects on vitamin D metabolism, providing new insight into the mechanisms underlying pigmentary disorders.© 2026 The Author(s). Experimental Dermatology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Ovarian senescence is the fundamental cause of reduced fertility in female animals,however, the molecular characteristics of ovarian ageing in sheep remain insufficiently defined. In this study, ovarian tissues were collected from 12 Qira Black sheep and assigned to group D (1-2 years, n = 6) and group H (5-6 years, n = 6) for LC-MS/MS-based proteomic profiling. A total of 458 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified between the two groups, including 211 upregulated and 247 downregulated proteins. Functional enrichment analyses indicated that these DEPs were mainly involved in cell-cycle regulation, oocyte maturation, amino acid metabolism, and inflammation-related signalling pathways, with the Rat Sarcoma(Ras) and Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase Pathway(MAPK) signalling pathways showing particularly strong enrichment. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis revealed close interactions among Intraflagellar transport 80(IFT80), Insulin receptor(INSR), Angiopoietin-like 4(ANGPTL4), Receptor interacting serine/threonine kinase 3(RIPK3), Nuclear receptor corepressor 1(NCOR1), and Fms-Related Tyrosine Kinase 4(FLT4), with Insulin receptor(INSR) occupying a central hub position. Collectively, this study establishes a differential proteomic atlas of ovarian ageing in Qira Black sheep, highlights the potential importance of Rat Sarcoma(Ras) and Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase Pathway(MAPK) signalling in this process, and identifies Insulin receptor(INSR) as a candidate target, thereby providing a theoretical basis for subsequent mechanistic studies and the development of molecular markers.Copyright © 2026 Guo, Pei, Liu, Wang, Qiao, Xu and Liu.
Nuclear receptor corepressor 1 (NCoR1) and silencing mediator of retinoic acid and thyroid hormone (SMRT) are critical regulators that mediate transcriptional repression through histone deacetylation. Despite high structural homology, their distinct roles in the central nervous system remain poorly understood. To elucidate these roles, we generated neuronal-specific NCoR1 or SMRT knockout mice using Snap25-IRES2-Cre mice. Behavioral assessments revealed that while both NCoR1 and SMRT deficiency led to hypoactivity, social deficits, and mild anxiety, NCoR1-deficient mice uniquely exhibited enhanced learning abilities in a visual discrimination task, indicating functional separation in cognitive regulation. This divergence was supported by RNA-sequencing in the amygdala at postnatal day 21 (PND 21), where SMRT deletion upregulated 449 genes, whereas NCoR1 deletion upregulated only 8 genes. Furthermore, we investigated the protein stability of HDAC3, the primary enzymatic partner of these corepressors. At PND 21, HDAC3 levels were significantly reduced in the NCoR1-deficient hippocampus but significantly increased in the SMRT-deficient amygdala. In contrast, HDAC3 levels remained stable in the adult cerebellum and PND 3 cerebrum regardless of corepressor status. Notably, while mice with deletion of both NCoR1 and SMRT exhibit early postnatal lethality, their HDAC3 levels were unchanged compared to controls at PND 3, suggesting that the lethal phenotype is not primarily driven by a systemic loss of HDAC3 protein. Collectively, our findings demonstrate that NCoR1 and SMRT function through independent transcriptional networks and context-dependent regulatory mechanisms. This study highlights the specialized, non-redundant roles of these homologous corepressors in the brain according to developmental stage and region.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) hold significant promise for applications in regenerative medicine, yet their therapeutic potential is often limited by replicative senescence. Identifying effective strategies to reverse replicative senescence in MSCs and elucidating the underlying molecular mechanisms are essential steps in advancing their clinical use. Here, this study demonstrated that the pluripotency regulator octamer-binding transcription factor 4 (OCT4) promoted odontogenic differentiation by activating period circadian regulator 1 (PER1) in replicative senescent stem cells from apical papilla (SCAP) spheres. Specifically, OCT4 overexpression significantly alleviated cell cycle arrest, reduced senescence-associated β-galactosidase activity, and downregulated the expression of senescence-related markers, including CDKN2A/P16, CDKN1A/P21, and TP53/P53. Moreover, this approach markedly enhanced the proliferation and odontogenic differentiation potential of SCAP spheres in vitro and promoted the formation of regenerative pulp-like tissue in vivo. Mechanistically, we demonstrated that OCT4 transcriptionally activated PER1 through direct binding to its promoter, thereby restoring the odontogenic differentiation capacity of replicative senescent SCAP. Collectively, our findings establish the OCT4-PER1 axis as a critical regulatory pathway that counteracts replicative senescence in SCAP. These insights suggest new therapeutic strategies targeting senescence-associated signaling pathways to enhance MSC-based regenerative outcomes.© 2026. The Author(s).
α-Linolenic acid (ALA), a plant-derived omega-3 fatty acid, has been reported to exert anti-atherosclerotic and anti-inflammatory effects. Perilla oil (PO), a rich dietary source of ALA, has yet to be comprehensively evaluated for its effects on blood circulation. This randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial assessed the effects of 8-week PO supplementation (4.8 g per day) on blood coagulation, and inflammatory response in healthy smokers. The PO intake significantly prolonged collagen-induced ADP-closure time (P = 0.045) and reduced mRNA expression of tumor necrosis factor-α (P = 0.027) and T-box transcription factor 21 (P = 0.022). In addition, PO supplementation for 8 weeks increased the proportion of ALA in plasma (P = 0.003) and red blood cells (P = 0.013), as well as eicosapentaenoic acid in plasma (P = 0.019). These findings suggest that PO supplementation increases blood omega-3 levels and modulates blood coagulation and inflammatory responses, potentially supporting blood flow.
This study compared the immunomodulatory effects of the co-extracted herbal formulation JI-HK601 with those of an individual extracts mixture (IEM) and evaluated the minimum effective dose of JI-HK601 through in vivo immune function analyses in mice. To assess safety, both extracts were administered orally at a dose of 400 mg/kg for 14 consecutive days. Measurements of body weight, spleen index, and peripheral blood cell profiles revealed no significant differences compared to the normal control group, suggesting that neither extract induced systemic toxicity or abnormal immune organ responses under the tested conditions. Immunological assessments indicated that JI-HK601 enhanced natural killer (NK) cell cytotoxic activity to a greater extent than IEM, suggesting a greater functional improvement in NK cell responsiveness. In subsequent dose-response studies of JI-HK601, no toxicity was observed at any dose, whereas increases in T-cell proportion and NK cell activity were noted at 400 mg/kg. Analysis of T-cell transcription factors showed selective upregulation of T-box transcription factor 21 (T-bet), a key regulator of T helper type 1 (Th1) differentiation. These results indicate that JI-HK601 preferentially stimulates Th1-associated immune pathways while enhancing innate cytotoxic function. Overall, the findings demonstrate that JI-HK601 strengthens NK cell activity and promotes Th1-related cellular immunity while maintaining a favorable safety profile across the evaluated dose range. Thus, these results provide foundational data for assessing the potential use of JI-HK601 as an immune-enhancing ingredient in functional foods and complementary and alternative medicine.
Smooth muscle nuclear receptor corepressor 1 (NCOR1) is implicated in phenotype modulation and aortic aneurysms, but its role in blood pressure regulation remains unclear. In the present study, using smooth muscle NCOR1 knockout male mice in combination with an angiotensin II-induced hypertensive mouse model, we found that NCOR1 deficiency reduced blood pressure and attenuated vascular remodeling. NCOR1 deficiency also alleviated age-related hypertension in aged male mice. Using inducible NCOR1-knockout male mice, we found that the deletion of smooth muscle NCOR1 prevents further exacerbation of hypertension. Compared with control VSMCs, NCOR1 deficient-vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) exhibited less proliferation, migration, and contraction. Mechanistically, NCOR1 deficiency downregulated the expression of adhesion-related genes and impaired integrin signaling pathway in VSMCs. Collectively, our results indicate that NCOR1 regulates the expression of integrins in VSMCs, controls the proliferation, migration, and contraction of VSMCs, and finally affects blood pressure and vascular remodeling in male mice.© 2026. The Author(s).
Nephrotic syndrome is one of the most common causes of kidney disease in children. The glomerular and tubulointerstitial changes that occur in the kidney due to this state of high-grade proteinuria are incompletely understood. Here, we report a mouse model of congenital nephrotic syndrome, induced by deletion of transcription factor 21 (Tcf21) from podocyte precursors, that can be used to study the injury sustained by young kidneys in response to nephrotic range proteinuria. Tcf21 is required for normal podocyte development. Our laboratory previously showed that deletion of Tcf21 from early podocyte progenitors abrogated the formation of normal foot processes in embryonic mice. We now show the postnatal phenotype of this deletion characterized by progressive nephrotic range proteinuria as early as two weeks of age. These mice developed worsening glomerulosclerosis and tubulointerstitial fibrosis, resulting in early mortality. Single-cell RNA sequencing of kidneys from these mice demonstrated structural and developmental defects in podocytes caused by the absence of Tcf21. Parietal epithelial cells in mutant kidneys underwent secondary changes that have been shown to promote glomerular injury in other models of kidney disease. In addition, we observed tubulointerstitial changes coincident with the massive proteinuria produced by this genetic model-namely, an expansion of fibroblasts accompanied by the appearance of a new injury cell state in the loop of Henle. These changes preceded the onset of severe, irreversible injury, presenting pathways that could be intervened upon early in the disease to prevent progression of renal fibrosis.NEW & NOTEWORTHY This study generated a comprehensive kidney-wide single-cell transcriptomic dataset of a murine model of childhood nephrotic syndrome developed by the deletion of transcription factor 21 (Tcf21) from early podocyte precursors. Our transcriptomic data provide further mechanistic insights into how TCF21 regulates podocyte health and development while enabling interrogation of how the tubulointerstitium responds to massive proteinuria.
Endometriosis-associated infertility is a complex condition in which the presence of endometrial-like tissue disrupts implantation and early pregnancy. Epigenetic regulators are critical for implantation and decidualization, yet their contribution to endometriosis-associated infertility remains incompletely understood. Nuclear receptor corepressor 1 (NCOR1), an epigenetic coregulator of steroid hormone signaling, has an incompletely defined role in endometriosis and early pregnancy. We show that NCOR1 expression is significantly reduced in the eutopic endometrium of infertile women with endometriosis. Using a conditional uterine Ncor1-knockout mouse model (Pgr cre/+Ncor1 f/f ), we demonstrate that NCOR1 loss is associated with increased ectopic lesion burden, implantation failure, defective decidualization, and severe subfertility, despite normal ovarian hormone production. NCOR1 deficiency was associated with disrupted progesterone-responsive signaling and endometrial receptivity. Together, these findings identify NCOR1 as an important regulator of endometrial function during early pregnancy and support an association between reduced NCOR1 expression and endometriosis-associated infertility.© 2026 The Author(s).
Circadian rhythms are generated by the periodic transcriptional regulation of a group of clock genes by the transcription factors clock circadian regulator (CLOCK) and basic helix-loop-helix ARNT-like 1 (BMAL1). Intracellular circadian rhythms are regulated by multiple signaling pathways. The calcium signaling pathway especially plays an important role in the rhythmic regulation of clock genes; however, the precise molecular mechanisms underlying calcium signaling-mediated rhythmic transcriptional regulation remain largely unclear. Here, we found that calcium-responsive transactivator (CREST) plays an important role in activating period circadian regulator 1 (Per1) and D-box binding PAR bZIP transcription factor (Dbp) gene expression by increasing intracellular calcium ion concentrations and rhythmic transcriptional regulation of these genes. Importantly, CREST increases the promoter activity of Per1 and Dbp by forming a complex with CLOCK and BMAL1. Finally, we found that CREST binds to the E-box-containing promoters of Per1 and Dbp. Taken together, we conclude that the formation of CREST and CLOCK/BMAL1 complexes at the E-boxes of the Per1 and Dbp promoters increases their mRNA expression in response to increased intracellular calcium ion concentrations.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Following the publication of this paper, it was drawn to the Editor's attention by a concerned reader that, in addition to a pair of data panels showing images of myocardial fibrosis in Fig. 5A on p. 897 having an overlapping section, western blots data featured in Fig. 6B for the '2 weeks' experiments on p. 898 were strikingly similar to data that had already been submitted to the journal PLoS One in a paper that was written by different authors at different research institutes. Given that the abovementioned data had already been submitted for publication before the receipt of this paper at International Journal of Molecular Medicine, the Editor has decided that it should be retracted from the Journal. The authors were asked for an explanation to account for these concerns, but the Editorial Office did not receive a reply. The Editor apologizes to the readership for any inconvenience caused. [International Journal of Molecular Medicine 35: 893‑900, 2015; DOI: 10.3892/ijmm.2015.2105].
Immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) therapy has emerged as a pivotal cancer treatment by activating antitumor immunity. However, its clinical efficacy remains limited in many patients, highlighting the need for combination strategies to overcome resistance. Inducing immunogenic cell death (ICD) represents a promising approach to remodel the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment and improve ICB efficacy.A high-throughput screen of a natural compound library identified potent ICD inducers. Polyphyllin II (PPII), a bioactive component from Paris polyphylla, was selected for further investigation. Its effects on ICD markers, tumor growth, and immune activation were evaluated in vitro and in vivo. Limited proteolysis-mass spectrometry was employed to identify the direct target of PPII, followed by mechanistic studies using molecular and immunological assays.PPII was identified as a potent ICD inducer, stimulating the release of high mobility group box 1, ATP, and calreticulin from tumor cells. PPII suppressed tumor growth and enhanced antitumor immunity by promoting dendritic cell maturation and antigen cross-presentation, leading to CD8+ T-cell activation. Mechanistically, PPII directly bound to glucose-regulated protein 75 (GRP75), enhancing endoplasmic reticulum-mitochondrial tethering, provoking endoplasmic reticulum stress and mitochondrial calcium overload, and promoting cytochrome c release and caspase-3 activation. This cascade ultimately triggered gasdermin E (GSDME)-mediated pyroptosis. Furthermore, PPII synergized with anti-programmed cell death protein 1 therapy by reprogramming the tumor immune microenvironment and promoting systemic antitumor immunity.Our findings identify GRP75 as a novel therapeutic target for cancer immunotherapy and highlight PPII-driven immune reprogramming as a translatable strategy to potentiate ICB efficacy through the induction of immunogenic pyroptosis.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Immunogenic cell death (ICD) represents a pivotal concept linking tumor cell demise with the activation of adaptive antitumor immunity. Since the concept was formalized around 2005, ICD has substantially reshaped research in tumor immunology and cancer therapy. However, bibliometric mapping and structured interpretation of the influential literature that has shaped this field remain limited.This bibliometric analysis, supplemented by structured narrative interpretation, used the Web of Science Core Collection and Scopus to identify the 100 most-cited ICD-related publications. Publication characteristics, citation patterns, journals, authors, institutions, countries/regions, and keywords were extracted and standardized. VOSviewer and CiteSpace were employed to construct collaboration networks, perform keyword co-occurrence and clustering analyses, and identify research hotspots and thematic evolution over time.The top 100 most-cited ICD publications were published between 2005 and 2023. Within this highly cited publication set, more included papers were published after 2011, and the largest number of top-cited publications appeared in 2019. Highly cited studies were dominated by contributions from the United States and Western Europe, particularly France, with strong international collaboration networks. A small core of authors and institutions accounted for a substantial proportion of influential output. Keyword and burst analyses revealed a clear evolution from early work defining ICD hallmarks and antigen presentation mechanisms toward later integration with immunotherapy, nanomedicine, phototherapy, and engineered delivery platforms.Over the past two decades, ICD research has evolved from conceptual and mechanistic foundations toward a multidisciplinary framework with increasing relevance to tumor immunology, immunotherapy, and combination cancer therapy. Future progress will depend on function-based validation of immunogenicity, microenvironment-aware biomarkers, and rational therapeutic combinations to enhance clinical translatability.Copyright © 2026 Guan, Guo, Liu, Bao, Chen, Luo, Zhang and Yang.
Dual-target c-Met/VEGFR kinase inhibitors have emerged as promising therapeutic agents for cancer therapy, although their underlying antitumor mechanisms remain poorly defined. In this study, we demonstrate that foretinib, a selective c-Met/VEGFR2 inhibitor, triggers immunogenic cell death (ICD) in colorectal cancer (CRC) cells. This process is characterized by the surface exposure of calreticulin (CRT) and extracellular secretion of ATP and high-mobility group box 1 (HMGB1), which subsequently drives the maturation and activation of dendritic cells (DCs). Mechanistically, foretinib activates the p53 signaling pathway, thereby transcriptionally upregulating Death Receptor 5 (DR5), a critical mediator of the extrinsic apoptotic cascade. Furthermore, foretinib remodels the tumor immune microenvironment (TIME) by facilitating DCs maturation and potentiating the infiltration and activation of T cells. Moreover, combined treatment with foretinib and anti-CD47 antibody exerts synergistic antitumor effects. Together, these findings uncover a previously unreported immunomodulatory function of c-Met/VEGFR2 inhibition, demonstrating that foretinib elicits potent anti-CRC efficacy via direct cytotoxicity and immunogenic regulation, and highlighting its considerable clinical therapeutic potential.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Promoting the M1 polarization of tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) is a promising strategy to reverse immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME), thereby facilitating tumor treatment. Herein, we develop a tumor treatment approach based on tumor cell supernatant (TCS) prepared via a photodynamic treatment strategy. Strikingly, TCS exhibits a robust ability in inducing the M1 polarization of macrophages compared to two other common types of cell lysates (obtained via freeze-thaw treatment and sonication), and such ability may be attributed to its high content of ribosomal proteins (e.g., 40S ribosomal protein S3), rather than the typical damage-associated molecular patterns (e.g., calreticulin and high mobility group box 1) released from the tumor cells due to the immunogenic cell death induced by photodynamic treatment. Subsequently, TCS is employed to fabricate a hydrogel loaded with a chemotherapeutic drug (denoted as drug@TCS hydrogel; drug = doxorubicin hydrochloride, cisplatin, or 5-fluorouracil). After intratumoral administration, the drug@TCS hydrogel can effectively promote the M1 polarization of TAMs and reverse the immunosuppressive TME, thus exhibiting a prominent tumor growth inhibition capacity. Therefore, such a supernatant may offer an efficacious approach to elevate tumor therapeutic efficacy via the M1 polarization of TAMs, and highlight the immunostimulatory function of the ribosomal proteins released from photodynamic treatment-treated tumor cells.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Kidney renal clear cell carcinoma (KIRC) is the most common subtype of renal cell carcinoma, accounting for 75-80% of cases. Although Prohibitin 1 (PHB1) has been implicated in tumorigenesis, its role in KIRC remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the expression, function, and underlying mechanisms of PHB1 in KIRC.PHB1 expression and clinical relevance were analyzed using the Cancer Genome Atlas database (TCGA), Gene Expression Omnibus database (GEO), and TIMER3.0 datasets. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data from 19 KIRC patients and normal kidney samples were used to assess cell-type-specific expression. Functional experiments, including CCK-8, EdU incorporation, colony formation, and Transwell assays, were performed to evaluate the effects of PHB1 on cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. A xenograft model was used to evaluate the effects of PHB1 in vivo. Western blotting and correlation analyses were conducted to assess the potential regulatory interplay between VHL, SKP2, PHB1, and p53.PHB1 was significantly downregulated in KIRC tissues. Single-cell analysis showed reduced PHB1 expression in tumor-derived epithelial cells, fibroblasts, endothelial cells, and immune cells. Lower PHB1 levels were associated with poorer overall survival. PHB1 overexpression inhibited proliferation and migration, whereas knockdown promoted these effects. In vivo, PHB1 overexpression reduced tumor growth. Moreover, VHL knockout altered the protein levels of SKP2 and PHB1. Cellular manipulation of PHB1 moderately altered endogenous p53 protein expression. Based on TCGA data analysis, PHB1 expression showed a positive correlation with VHL and a negative correlation with SKP2.Collectively, PHB1 acts as a potential tumor suppressor in KIRC. Its expression pattern is associated with the VHL-SKP2 signaling axis, and the tumor-suppressive effects of PHB1 may be partially associated with the modulation of p53 expression. These findings suggest that PHB1 has the potential to serve as a reliable biomarker and therapeutic candidate for KIRC treatment.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Human breast cancer is one of the most common cancer types in women. While surgery and radiation remain the mainstay of treatment, minimally invasive treatments are generally not considered sufficiently efficacious due to the invasive and potentially metastatic nature of the disease. Near-infrared photoimmunotherapy (NIR-PIT) is an emerging local cancer treatment that induces immunogenic cell death (ICD) and stimulates host immunity which could result in higher success rates than traditional ablative treatments. Accordingly, the clinical use of NIR-PIT for breast cancer is a potential avenue for exploration. This study evaluated the efficacy of NIR-PIT targeting epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) using a canine mammary tumor (CMT) model.The cytotoxic effects of NIR-PIT targeting EGFR and HER2 were evaluated in canine mammary cancer cell line, CMT-U27 and CF41.Mg. For detection of ICD, the expression of surface ICD markers, heat shock protein 70 and calreticulin, extra-cellular ATP release, and loss of nuclear protein was evaluated. The therapeutic effects of NIR-PIT targeting EGFR was assessed in the CMT-U27 tumor model.NIR-PIT targeting EGFR and HER2 significantly decreased cellular viability and induced dramatic membrane damage in CMT cells. NIR-PIT increased surface markers of ICD as well as extracellular ATP release, and nuclear protein loss. In a CMT-bearing mouse model, NIR-PIT targeting EGFR significantly suppressed tumor growth and prolonged survival.NIR-PIT is a potential therapeutic strategy for treating CMT and could be extended to the treatment of sporadic breast cancer in canines as an initial step prior to its use in humans.Copyright © 2026 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
Mosquito saliva is coinoculated with dengue virus (DENV) during blood feeding, potentially influencing infection at bite sites; however, the key salivary factors and underlying mechanisms remain unclear. This study identifies Aedes aegypti calreticulin (CRT) as a dual-function enhancer of DENV replication and transmission. Far-western blotting and coimmunoprecipitation revealed that mosquito salivary proteins interact with the viral precursor membrane (prM) protein. Furthermore, enzymatic deglycosylation (via endoglycosidase H) and lectin-competition assays demonstrated that this interaction relies on N-linked glycans bearing N-acetylglucosamine residues on viral structural proteins. Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis of saliva-virion complexes identified nine Ae. aegypti candidates, and immunoblotting confirmed CRT as a prM-binding partner. Oral infection models showed that DENV markedly upregulates CRT in salivary glands, and immunofluorescence colocalized CRT with calnexin in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). RNA interference-mediated CRT knockdown significantly reduced both viral RNA and salivary-gland prM expression, as well as infectious titers in a plaque assay, underscoring CRT's essential role in DENV replication. Relative to control saliva, CRT-depleted mosquito saliva conferred markedly reduced infectivity to C6/36 cells, establishing CRT as a saliva-derived enhancer of host cell infection. Collectively, these findings support a model in which Ae. aegypti CRT acts intracellularly as an ER chaperone facilitating DENV replication and extracellularly as a salivary factor binding prM glycans to promote early infection. By identifying a glycan-dependent interface between a vector chaperone and a viral structural protein, this study reveals a conserved mechanism of arbovirus transmission and highlights mosquito CRT-glycan interactions as potential targets for disrupting dengue transmission.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury (CIRI) usually has a high mortality and disability rate, and inflammatory stimulation is an important risk factor for CIRI. ISL LIM Homeobox 1 (ISL1) is involved in the regulation of inflammatory response, and its role in CIRI progression has not been reported. Here, we established an animal model of transient middle cerebral artery occlusion/reperfusion (tMCAO/R) and found that ISL1 was up-regulated in the peri-infarct cortex of tMCAO/R mice (log2FC = 4.7, adj. p < 0.01) and improved neurological dysfunction and reduced infarct size. At the same time, we found that ISL1 suppressed the expression of proinflammatory markers in the peri-infarct cortex. Consistently, in an oxygen-glucose deprivation/reoxygenation (OGD/R)-induced microglial HMC3 cell model, ISL1 overexpression significantly curtailed the inflammatory response, as evidenced by reduced iNOS and CD16/32 expression. Mechanistically, dual-luciferase and ChIP assays confirmed that ISL1 promotes the transcriptional activation of Stanniocalcin 1 (STC1) by enhancing H3K4me3 enrichment at its promoter region. Furthermore, GST pull-down analyses suggested that this transcriptional regulation is likely mediated through the physical interaction between ISL1 and WDR5, which may recruit the MLL complex to facilitate H3K4me3 deposition. Collectively, our findings indicate that the ISL1-WDR5-H3K4me3 axis contributes to the upregulation of STC1, thereby attenuating neuroinflammation and CIRI-induced brain injury.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
UVB induces an epidermal damage response, including keratinocyte hyperplasia, immune cell infiltration, and the recruitment of follicular melanocyte stem cells to the interfollicular epidermis. In this study, we establish the oncofetal chromatin remodeling factor Hmga2 (high mobility group AT-hook 2) as a regulator of these phenotypes through a cAMP-driven process. In this study, we identify somatic tissue expression of Hmga2 in the basal layer of hyperplastic UVB-exposed keratinocytes. Loss of Hmga2 results in the near absence of epidermal hyperplasia, cutaneous neutrophil infiltration, and melanocyte stem cell migration to the interfollicular epidermis. RNA sequencing of UVB-exposed keratinocytes from wild-type and Hmga2 loss-of-function models reveals increased expression of Adora1 (adenosine A1 receptor), a negative regulator of cAMP. Administration of the cAMP pathway activator forskolin to Hmga2-/- animals is sufficient to rescue melanocyte stem cell migration, thus highlighting the Hmga2-cAMP axis as a regulator in the cutaneous UVB response.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Long-read sequencing has enabled precise measurements of highly repetitive centromeric satellites and their rapid divergence between species1-7. Large satellite arrays emerge from libraries of shorter arrays via stochastic expansions8,9, but understanding the selective pressures constraining such expansions remains a major challenge. Here, using the mouse "major" satellite as a model, we reveal reciprocal functional constraints between increasing satellite copy number and abundance of a conserved architectural protein in female meiosis. We show that HMGA2 (high mobility group AT-hook 2) is enriched at major satellite, and its expression correlates with major satellite copy number: both are high in Mus musculus compared to the closely related Mus spretus. To test functional constraints, we modulated HMGA2 abundance by depletion or overexpression and used a musculus/spretus hybrid to generate oocytes with intermediate HMGA2 expression and major satellite copy number. We find that HMGA2 depletion disrupts major satellite packaging in major satellite-rich musculus but not hybrid oocytes, indicating that increasing copy number requires high HMGA2 expression. Conversely, HMGA2 overexpression disrupts chromosome segregation in major satellite-poor spretus but not hybrid oocytes, indicating that high HMGA2 expression requires expanded major satellite arrays. Based on these results, we propose a co-evolution model in which satellite expansion is constrained by architectural protein abundance, whereas protein abundance is constrained reciprocally by satellite array size.
HMGA2, an oncoprotein associated with tumor progression and metastasis, is frequently overexpressed in various cancers. However, its specific role in epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)-mutant non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the prognostic significance of High mobility group AT-hook 2 (HMGA2), its relationship with EGFR mutations, and its impact on tumor microenvironment (TME) dynamics to identify potential therapeutic targets.The expression of HMGA2 in different organ tissues and its relevance in NSCLC were examined via the Human Protein Atlas (HPA), Tumor Immune Estimation Resource (TIMER), and Gene Expression Profiling Interactive Analysis (GEPIA) databases. Prognostic analysis was conducted via the Kaplan-Meier (KM) plotter database. HMGA2 protein expression across different subgroups was assessed via the (TIMER) and Assistant for Clinical Bioinformatics (ACLBI) databases. Survival analysis was carried out via R (4.2.1). Furthermore, Gene Ontology (GO), Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG), and protein-protein interaction (PPI) analyses were performed to investigate potential pathways associated with HMGA2. The correlation between immune infiltration and HMGA2 expression in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) was analysed via The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database. Western blot (WB) analysis was utilized to determine HMGA2 expression in LUAD cell lines.These results indicated that HMGA2 was upregulated in various malignant tumors, including LUAD and lung squamous cell carcinoma (LUSC), and is correlated with poor prognosis in LUAD patients. In LUAD, HMGA2 expression was associated with EGFR mutations, with elevated expression in EGFR-mutant (EGFRmut) LUAD linked to a worse prognosis. Additionally, HMGA2 was sensitive to multiple chemotherapy drugs and was involved in various cancer-related signalling pathways, such as extracellular matrix (ECM) receptor interactions, nitrogen metabolism, arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy, and complement and coagulation cascades. Analysis of immune infiltration suggested that HMGA2 was linked to the infiltration of diverse immune cells.In conclusion, HMGA2 expression is positively correlated with the EGFR mutation status, suggesting its potential as a diagnostic and prognostic marker for LUAD.© AME Publishing Company.
Lipoma is a benign tumor of adipose tissue, most often located in the subcutaneous tissue or deep soft tissues. It is usually solitary, slow-growing, and asymptomatic. Giant lipomas (≥10 cm or ≥1 kg) are rare and may cause compression of blood vessels and nerves, restricted mobility, and cosmetic deformity. Genetic predisposition is associated with mutations in genes such as High Mobility Group AT-hook 2 (HMGA2) and Domain-Containing Preferred Translocation Partner in Lipoma (LPP). Diagnosis is based on clinical examination and imaging, including ultrasonography, CT, and, in diagnostically equivocal cases, MRI. Suspicious cases are confirmed by histology to rule out malignant tumors.Patient O., 65 years old, was admitted to the surgical department with a giant lipoma of the right thigh, present for over 15 years and associated with discomfort, a feeling of heaviness, and cramps. On examination, a mass measuring 40 × 35 cm was detected, of soft-elastic consistency, painless, mobile, with no skin changes. Diagnostic work-up included ultrasonography (US), computed tomography (CT), and biopsy, confirming a benign lipoma. Planned surgical excision was performed under spinal anesthesia; the lipoma was completely removed. The excised mass measured 50 × 35 cm and weighed 5700 g. The surgery was uneventful, with a blood loss of 100 ml. The postoperative period was smooth; drains were removed on postoperative days 4-5, and sutures were removed on days 9-10. The patient was discharged in satisfactory condition, with complete wound healing and a recommendation for follow-up with a surgeon.Giant lipomas are rare but can cause compression of blood vessels and nerves, restricted mobility, and cosmetic discomfort. Their size and atypical course may mimic malignant tumors, necessitating thorough preoperative evaluation using MRI, histology, and, if necessary, genetic testing by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) for MDM2 (Mouse Double Minute 2) gene amplification. The primary and safest treatment remains radical surgical excision with preservation of anatomical structures. Small or cosmetically significant lipomas may be treated with less invasive methods, but giant forms require full surgical intervention to restore function and improve the patient's quality of life.Giant thigh lipomas require a comprehensive and carefully planned approach, including thorough diagnostic assessment and radical surgical intervention. Effective treatment results in sustained improvement of the patient's physical and psycho-emotional condition, reduction of pain, and restoration of quality of life, as reflected by a marked improvement in SF-36 and EQ-5D scores during long-term follow-up.
Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) is a recalcitrant malignancy with limited responses to immunotherapy, largely due to its uniquely immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME). However, the molecular mechanisms driving this phenotype remain incompletely understood.We integrated single-cell RNA sequencing and Xenium in situ spatial transcriptomics to analyze the immune microenvironment of five SCLC and four non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) samples. Multiplex immunofluorescence was used to validate cell types and gene expression in the same tissue specimens, and animal models were employed to verify the key mechanistic pathway.SCLC displayed a distinct immune landscape compared with NSCLC, with increased infiltration of C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4)+ neutrophils (via neutrophil extracellular traps) and S100A8+ monocytes (toward an M2-like phenotype), and reduced CD8+ T-cell infiltration. Malignant epithelial cells in SCLC highly expressed CXCR4, regulated by transcription factors ISL LIM homeobox 1 and distal-less homeobox 5, which promoted immunosuppression. The C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 12 (CXCL12)-CXCR4 axis mediated competitive inhibition, impairing T-cell recruitment while enhancing neutrophil accumulation. Monocytes in SCLC shifted toward an M2-like phenotype, weakening antigen presentation. Xenium spatial transcriptomics confirmed colocalization of CXCR4+ neutrophils and S100A8+ monocytes with tumor cells at the tumor-normal interface, while CD8+ T cells were spatially segregated. In vivo experiments showed that CXCR4 inhibition reduced SCLC tumor growth, decreased immunosuppressive cell infiltration, and enhanced CD8+ T-cell accumulation.The CXCL12-CXCR4 axis, together with immunosuppressive CXCR4+ neutrophils and S100A8+ monocytes, is a key driver of the immune-desert phenotype in SCLC. Targeting this axis holds promise as a therapeutic strategy to remodel the immunosuppressive TME and improve the efficacy of immunotherapy for SCLC.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Chondrosarcoma (CHS) is a malignant bone tumor resistant to adjuvant treatment, with high-grade patients suffering an unfavorable prognosis. Therefore, a deeper insight into the tumor microenvironment is essential for developing effective treatments for advanced CHS. To decipher the cellular heterogeneity between CHS with differential malignancy and benign cartilage tumors, we performed single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) on clinical specimens of high- and low-grade CHS, endochondroma and paratumoral tissues. The findings of transcriptional characteristics were validated by the bioinformatics analyses of public bulk datasets. The role of markers of interest was further explored by histological staining, in vitro and in vivo experiments. The results demonstrated that neoplastic cells and stromal cells predominated in the CHS tumor microenvironment. High-grade CHS presented aggravated proliferation and angiogenesis characteristics in neoplastic cells. The in silico analysis and functional experiments identified HMGA2 as a regulator of these malignant phenotypes and an independent predictor of poor outcome. Tumor-associated endothelial cells (TA-ECs) in CHS demonstrated senescent yet aggressive phenotypes underpinned by HBEGF. Moreover, HCHS exhibited more prevalent cellular communications between neoplastic cells and TA-ECs mediated by SPP1 and EGF pathways, with SPP1 and HBEGF both predicting unfavorable prognosis. Mechanistically, HMGA2 induced neoplastic secretion of SPP1, which provoked endothelial senescence and HBEGF release. Our findings implicate malignant characteristics in neoplastic cells and endothelial senescence associated with the histological grade of CHS and underscore the potential value of HMGA2 and SPP1 as actionable therapeutic targetes for advanced patients.© 2026. The Author(s).
Effective therapies for liver fibrosis are lacking. The RNA-binding protein Lin28A is upregulated in human cirrhotic and mouse fibrotic livers, where it localizes to activated hepatic stellate cells (HSCs). HSCs-specific overexpression of Lin28A worsened carbon tetrachloride (CCl4)-induced fibrosis in mice. In LX-2 and primary mouse HSCs, Lin28A knockdown suppressed activation and induced hallmarks of ferroptosis, including mitochondrial damage, lipid peroxidation, and glutathione depletion. Mechanistically, Lin28A repressed the maturation of let-7 microRNAs, leading to increased expression of its target, high-mobility group AT-hook 2 (HMGA2). HMGA2, alongside hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α), contributed to the downregulation of the ferroptosis defense proteins SLC7A11 and GPX4. Notably, the anti-fibrotic effects of the Lin28A inhibitor C1632 were dependent on ferroptosis induction, as co-treatment with ferrostatin-1 reversed its impact on HSCS activation and death. In vivo, C1632 treatment alleviated CCl4-induced liver fibrosis. These results identify Lin28A as a regulator of HSCS ferroptosis and a potential target for anti-fibrotic therapy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The escalating crisis of antimicrobial resistance necessitates a paradigm shift toward host-directed therapies (HDTs) that circumvent pathogen evasion strategies. Here we show that the natural polyphenol resveratrol clears intracellular Salmonella typhimurium (S. typhimurium) by orchestrating a multipronged strategy involving Salmonella-containing vacuole (SCV) disruption via ERK1/2 inhibition to liberate bacteria for enhanced autophagic clearance, concurrently reversing pathogen-induced G2/M cell cycle arrest. We identify High Mobility Group AT-Hook 2 (HMGA2) as a critical, previously unrecognized host dependency factor essential for Salmonella-driven cell cycle manipulation, which resveratrol targets to restrict bacterial replication. Furthermore, we characterize a resveratrol derivative, RV15, with enhanced potency and a distinct target profile validated by cellular thermal shift assay and proteome-wide reverse docking. This work underscores the potential of multipronged host modulation to eliminate intracellular pathogens that evade conventional antibiotics.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Jianpi Bushen Qingchang Huashi Formula (JBQHF) is a traditional Chinese medicine compound of nine herbal ingredients clinically used to treat chronic diarrhea and dysentery syndromes, corresponding to ulcerative colitis (UC). Although clinical evidence supports its efficacy, the underlying mechanism remains unclear.This study sought to define the therapeutic benefit of JBQHF in a murine colitis model and to dissect the underlying mode of action.Ultra-high performance liquid chromatography coupled with quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry (UHPLC-QTOF-MS) was applied to profile the chemical constituents of JBQHF. Therapeutic efficacy was evaluated in a DSS-induced murine colitis model. Gut bacterial composition and metabolite output were analyzed by 16S rRNA gene sequencing and Gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS), respectively. Network pharmacology, deep learning-based virtual screening, and molecular docking were employed to predict candidate active compounds and their potential targets. Immunological assays focused on Histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1) expression, HDAC enzymatic activity, histone acetylation status and the T helper 17/regulatory T (Th17/Treg) differentiation axis.JBQHF attenuated colitis as reflected by lower disease activity indices (DAI) and reduced histopathologic injury. Pro-inflammatory mediators were decreased while intestinal tight junction protein levels were elevated. JBQHF was associated with increased gut microbiota-derived butyrate production, reduced colonic HDAC1 expression and HDAC enzymatic activity, elevated Acetyl-H3K9 and Acetyl-H3K27, and a rebalancing of the Th17/Treg ratio. The protective effects of JBQHF were largely abrogated by the HDAC activator ITSA-1. Deep learning-based virtual screening further identified flavonoids within JBQHF as candidate HDAC1 ligands with predicted target selectivity.JBQHF ameliorates experimental colitis via a dual inhibition of HDAC1, providing an integrated mechanism for its clinical application.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Breast cancer (BC) is the second leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide and has a high recurrence rate. This study aimed to evaluate the expression levels of three biomarkers: DNA methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1), histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1), and metallothionein 1E (MT1E) in BC patients.Peripheral blood and tissue samples from 95 female BC patients and 50 age-matched (±5 years) healthy female controls were analyzed using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Diagnostic potential was assessed through receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis. In silico analyses identified differentially expressed genes (DEGs), Gene Ontology (GO) terms, pathway enrichment, correlation analysis, miRNA-mRNA interactions, and drug-gene networks.Both experimental and computational results revealed significantly higher levels of DNMT1 and HDAC1 but lower levels of MT1E in BC patients compared to controls (p-value < 0.0001). Furthermore, tumor expression of these genes correlated with molecular subtypes, showing distinct expression patterns in triple-negative BC (TNBC). Advanced-stage tumors also exhibited increased HDAC1 and DNMT1 expression. GO enrichment analysis indicated that these DEGs are involved in cell division, differentiation, and nuclear functions. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis linked DNMT1 to the p53 pathway, HDAC1 to mismatch repair, and MT1E to cytokine receptor interactions. The strongest gene correlations were DNMT1-ILF3, HDAC1-RBBP4, and MT1E-MT2A. Additionally, miRNA-mRNA interaction analysis revealed that DNMT1, HDAC1, and MT1E are targeted by multiple miRNAs, with the top interacting miRNAs being hsa-miR-103a-3p for DNMT1, hsa-miR-34a-5p for HDAC1, and hsa-miR-126-3p for MT1E. DNMT1 showed the highest number of miRNA interactions among the three genes. Moreover, 98 drugs were found to interact with these three genes. ROC analysis demonstrated promising diagnostic performance, with areas under the curve (AUC) of 0.916 for DNMT1, 0.792 for HDAC1, and 0.683 for MT1E (95% confidence interval [CI]).These findings suggest that DNMT1, HDAC1, and MT1E show potential as complementary biomarkers in BC diagnosis. However, further validation in larger cohorts and functional studies are warranted.Copyright © 2026 Sedigheh Akhtartavan et al. Analytical Cellular Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic autoimmune disease characterized by synovial hyperplasia, inflammatory cell infiltration, and pathological angiogenesis, ultimately leading to progressive joint damage. Cold-inducible RNA-binding protein (CIRP) has been implicated in inflammatory responses; however, its role in RA-associated angiogenesis remains unclear. In this study, we demonstrate that CIRP gene knockout or pharmacological inhibition using C23 significantly attenuates arthritis severity and reduces synovial angiogenesis in adjuvant-induced arthritis models. In vitro experiments revealed that CIRP promotes human umbilical vein endothelial cell (HUVEC) tube formation, migration, and invasion by upregulating the expression of C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4) and Delta-like ligand 4 (DLL4). Notably, blocking extracellular CIRP with C23 inhibited CIRP-induced angiogenesis in HUVECs. Further investigations showed that Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) knockdown suppressed CIRP-induced angiogenesis in HUVECs, indicating that CIRP promotes angiogenesis through a TLR4-dependent mechanism. Subsequent mechanistic studies revealed that CIRP upregulates histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1) expression via TLR4 in HUVECs. We therefore investigated the role of HDAC1 in CIRP-induced angiogenesis, and found that HDAC1 knockdown significantly inhibited this process. Moreover, CIRP promotes pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2) nuclear translocation and suppresses PKM2 lactylation through the TLR4-mediated HDAC1 pathway. Furthermore, The PKM2 lysine 62 to arginine (K62R) mutant enhances PKM2 nuclear translocation and promotes angiogenesis. Taken together, these results suggest that HDAC1-mediated PKM2 delactylation modification regulates CIRP-induced angiogenesis in RA.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Periodontitis is a chronic inflammatory disease that affects the supporting tissues around teeth. A reduction in the pluripotency of periodontal ligament stem cells (PDLSCs) has been identified as a pivotal factor in age-related alveolar bone loss. This study investigated the effects of special AT-rich binding protein 1 (SATB1) on the osteogenic differentiation capacity of PDLSCs under H2O2-induced senescent conditions and its potential mechanisms, thereby providing new insights into periodontal regeneration in patients with periodontitis.The osteogenic differentiation capacity of PDLSCs was determined by alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity, alizarin red S (ARS) staining, and western blotting. Co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) was used to detect the binding of SATB1 to histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1) and a ubiquitination assay was employed to detect the protein stability of SATB1.Under normal and H2O2-stimulation conditions, SATB1 enhances osteogenic differentiation of PDLSCs by activating the p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) signaling pathways. The Co-IP results indicated that SATB1 could physically bind to HDAC1 and the binding of SATB1 and HDAC1 proteins decreased under H2O2-induced senescent conditions. In addition, HDAC1 promoted the expression of SATB1 and rescued the osteogenic differentiation capacity of PDLSCs via the activation of the p38 MAPK pathway under senescent conditions. Nevertheless, HDAC1 deacetylation mutant (HDAC1-H141A-MUT) did not affect the binding of SATB1 and HDAC1 but lost the effect of upregulating the expression of SATB1. Moreover, HDAC1-H141A-MUT lost the ability to promote the osteogenic differentiation of PDLSCs and the activation of the p38 MAPK signaling pathway. Furthermore, protein half-life experiments indicated that HDAC1 hindered the degradation of the SATB1 protein, whereas HDAC1-H141A-MUT lost this function. In the end, ubiquitination assay demonstrated that HDAC1 inhibited the ubiquitination of SATB1, while HDAC1-H141A-MUT has no effect on the ubiquitination of SATB1 protein.SATB1 modulated the osteogenic differentiation of PDLSCs through HDAC1 mediated non-histone protein deacetylation and ubiquitination and through the p38 MAPK pathway under H2O2-induced senescence conditions. Therefore, this new mechanism provides a feasible strategy for promoting periodontal tissue regeneration.© 2026. The Author(s).
SNAIL is a transcription factor that plays a role in development and cancer. SNAIL contains an N-terminal SNAG domain that is a high-affinity ligand for the histone substrate binding lysine-specific demethylase 1 (LSD1). SNAIL also contains a C-terminal zinc finger domain that binds to DNA E-box sequences. SNAIL and related transcription factor family members are known to recruit LSD1-containing protein complexes to specific sites in chromatin to regulate gene expression. LSD1 can form a multiprotein complex with histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1) and CoREST scaffolding protein (LHC). In this study, we use a purified system to analyze the role of SNAIL in modulating nucleosome deacetylation by the LHC complex. We find that SNAIL enhances nucleosome deacetylase activity of the LHC complex at multiple histone H3 sites through multivalent interactions. Enhanced nucleosome deacetylation is dependent on SNAIL's SNAG and zinc finger domains. Unexpectedly, we find that SNAIL-stimulated nucleosome deacetylation by LHC also involves interactions of the nucleosome histone acidic patch, including histone H2A acidic residues. Modeling and mutagenesis experiments suggest that this acidic patch could engage a basic patch in the disordered segment of LSD1. Together, these findings reveal how a transcription factor can influence a cascade of molecular recognition events to regulate chromatin structure.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
A novel signal-switchable fluorescent biosensing platform was rationally developed based on oxidized single-walled carbon nanohorns (oxSWCNHs) and FAM-labeled peptide probes for the highly sensitive detection, activity evaluation, and intracellular bioimaging of histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1). The FAM-modified peptide substrate could be tightly adsorbed on the oxSWCNHs. In the presence of HDAC1, the specific deacetylation of acetyl-lysine residues initiated the sequential enzymatic cleavage reaction triggered by carboxypeptidase Y (CPY), which led to the detachment of fluorophores from oxSWCNHs and the obvious recovery of fluorescence signals. Under optimized experimental conditions, the constructed biosensor exhibited excellent sensing performance toward HDAC1 with a low detection limit of 1.4 ng/mL. Meanwhile, the sensing system was effectively utilized to precisely detect HDAC1 in the serum of humans, quantitatively assess the inhibitory effect of trichostatin A (TSA), and achieve intracellular fluorescence imaging of endogenous HDAC1 in living cells. Featuring high sensitivity, favorable specificity, and simple operation, this fluorescent sensing strategy provides a promising and universal tool for clinical HDAC1 analysis, disease-related research and inhibitor screening.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH, DE part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42290054 is a review article
Histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1) exacerbates ventricular remodeling and heart failure by promoting myocardial peroxidative damage. Thus, this study aimed to investigate whether the HDAC1 inhibitor mocetinostat alleviates pathological cardiac hypertrophy via suppressing ferroptosis and to elucidate the potential mechanisms involving the nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) pathway.Primary cardiomyocytes were stimulated with phenylephrine (PE) to induce hypertrophy and ferroptosis in vitro, with or without mocetinostat treatment. The Nrf2 inhibitor ML385 was used to verify pathway specificity. In vivo, a mouse model of pressure-overload-induced cardiac hypertrophy was established using a transverse aortic constriction (TAC)-induced approach. Mocetinostat was administered to evaluate its therapeutic effects. Ferroptosis markers including lipid peroxidation, iron accumulation, and levels of ferroptosis-related proteins, were assessed. The acetylation and nuclear translocation of Nrf2, as well as the expression of the associated downstream targets (Solute carrier family 7 member 11 (SLC7A11), glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4), ferroportin, ferritin heavy chain 1 (FTH1), heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1)), were analyzed.Mocetinostat treatment significantly ameliorated PE-induced cardiomyocyte hypertrophy and ferroptosis in vitro and attenuated TAC-induced cardiac hypertrophy and fibrosis in vivo. Mechanistically, mocetinostat facilitated Nrf2 acetylation and promoted Nrf2 nuclear translocation, leading to the transcriptional activation of downstream antioxidant targets and subsequent inhibition of lipid peroxidation. The protective effects of mocetinostat were abrogated by the Nrf2 inhibitor ML385.This study demonstrates that mocetinostat attenuates pathological cardiac hypertrophy by inhibiting ferroptosis through activation of the Nrf2 pathway . These findings indicate the potential of mocetinostat as a therapeutic strategy for delaying heart failure progression.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
The rapid induction of type I interferons (IFN-I) by innate signaling is indispensable for host defense; however, its uncontrolled expression invariably leads to autoimmune diseases. Here, we reveal that the E3 ubiquitin ligase UHRF2 functions as a highly specific epigenetic repressor of IFN-I gene transcription. During viral infection, activated TBK1 undergoes nuclear translocation, where it is hijacked by UHRF2 to achieve gene-specific targeting at IFN-I loci. Upon recruitment to IFN-I loci, UHRF2 physically interacts with histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1), catalyzes atypical K29-linked polyubiquitination and prevents HDAC1 from degradation. This stabilized UHRF2-HDAC1 complex actively erases the lactylation of histone H4 at lysine 12 (H4K12la), thereby silencing IFN-I transcription. To mount an effective initial antiviral response, IFN-I signaling feedback transiently downregulates UHRF2 expression. Consequently, UHRF2-deficient mice exhibit profound resistance to lethal virus infection in vivo due to IFN-I overproduction. These findings uncover a highly coordinated mechanism wherein nuclear TBK1, UHRF2, and HDAC1 converge to epigenetically regulate immune homeostasis through histone delactylation, identifying UHRF2 as a potential therapeutic target for virus infection or autoimmune diseases.© The author(s).
Pinealectomy leads to melatonin deficiency, which is known to disrupt circadian clock regulation and may increase vulnerability of the hippocampus to oxidative stress and neuroinflammatory processes. The objective of this study was to examine the gene expression levels of circadian locomotor output cycles kaput (CLOCK), brain and muscle ARNT-like 1 (BMAL1), period circadian regulator 1 (PER1), cryptochrome circadian regulator 1 (CRY1), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and interleukin-6 (IL-6) in the hippocampus to elucidate the impact of pinealectomy-induced circadian dysregulation on these gene expressions and to assess its association with hippocampal alterations. A total of 30 Wistar rats were randomly divided into three groups: Control, Sham, and Pinealectomy (PNX) (n = 10 per group). Gene expression levels were analyzed using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). Immunohistochemical analysis was performed to assess caspase-3 and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) immunoreactivity. In addition, oxidative stress parameters, including malondialdehyde (MDA), superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), and glutathione (GSH), as well as the inflammatory marker tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), were measured. The pinealectomy group showed a significant downregulation of BMAL1, BDNF, CLOCK, CRY1, and PER1 gene expression levels, with decreases ranging from approximately 60% to 83% compared with the sham and control groups, whereas IL-6 expression was significantly increased by approximately 185% (p < 0.05). Immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated significantly increased caspase-3 and GFAP immunoreactivity in the PNX group. Furthermore, pinealectomy resulted in a significant increase in MDA and TNF-α levels, accompanied by marked decreases in SOD, CAT, and GSH levels (p < 0.05). In conclusion, pinealectomy is associated with significant disruption of hippocampal circadian clock gene expression, accompanied by oxidative stress, neuroinflammation, and histopathological alterations. These findings highlight the critical role of circadian regulation in maintaining hippocampal cellular integrity.
Immune system is regulated by circadian rhythms, which promote inflammation and facilitate pathogen elimination. Antimicrobial peptides secreted by milk somatic cells and mammary gland epithelial cells play a crucial role in protecting the mammary gland from pathogenic invasion and mastitis. In this study, we aimed to investigate the circadian rhythms of clock gene and antimicrobial peptide gene expression in goat milk somatic cells, as well as the circadian variation in antimicrobial peptide concentrations in milk.Milk and blood samples were collected from eight goats every 4 h for three days, with light exposure from 6:30 to 19:00. Notably, plasma prolactin level, milk Na+ concentration, and somatic cell count exhibited circadian rhythms (cosinor: P < 0.05; time: P < 0.01). Expression levels of some clock genes (Clock, cryptochrome circadian regulator 2, period circadian regulator 2, and nuclear receptor subfamily 1 group D member 1) exhibited circadian rhythms (cosinor: P < 0.05), whereas those of other clock genes, such as basic helix-loop-helix ARNT-like 1, period circadian regulator 1, cryptochrome circadian regulator 1, and retinoic acid receptor-related orphan receptor-α, did not exhibit circadian rhythms. Among the milk antimicrobial peptides, gene expression level of cathelicidin-7 (cosinor and time: P < 0.05), but not that of lactoferrin (cosinor: P = 0.079), exhibited a circadian rhythm in somatic cells. Additionally, goat β-defensin-1, cathelicidin-7, and lactoferrin levels exhibited circadian rhythms in milk (cosinor and time: P < 0.01).Overall, our results suggest that leukocyte migration and antimicrobial peptide production exhibit circadian rhythms in the mammary glands. These findings provide valuable insights to ensure safe milking conditions by milking during periods of high immune activity in the mammary glands.© 2026. The Author(s).
Background: Deprivation of sleep (DS) might affect mood and cognitive abilities, including psychomotor functions (PF). Molecular mechanisms underlying these effects remain unclear, though studies suggest that the circadian rhythm plays a role. Methods: Seventy participants underwent polysomnography (PSG) and DS. PF was evaluated using Bimanual Eye-Hand Coordination Test (BEHCT). Mood, PF, and clock gene expression (Circadian Locomotor Output Cycles Kaput (CLOCK), Brain and Muscle ARNT-Like 1 (BMAL1), Period Circadian Regulator 1 (PER1), Cryptochrome Circadian Regulator 1 (CRY1), Nuclear Receptor Subfamily 1 Group D Member 1 (NR1D1), and Neuronal PAS Domain Protein 2 (NPAS2)) were analyzed post-PSG and post-DS. Mood changes after DS classified participants as responders (RE) or non-responders (NR). Results: In NRs, but not REs, the BEHCT error count positively correlated with the expression of BMAL1, CRY1, PER1, NR1D1 (R = 0.60, p = 0.002; R = 0.49, p = 0.018; R = 0.57, p = 0.023; and R = 0.53, p = 0.011, respectively), with PER1 explaining its variability in 57.8% (b = 0.174, R2 = 0.578, F = 20.144, and p < 0.001). Conclusions: Obtained results suggest that altered clock gene expression may contribute to individual differences in mood and PF following DS.
Circadian regulation in peripheral cells depends on calcium dynamics, but the upstream mechanisms remain unclear. We identify endoplasmic reticulum lipid raft-associated protein 2 (ERLIN2) as a regulator of the peripheral clock. Knockdown and overexpression of ERLIN2 in C2C12 skeletal muscle cells show that ERLIN2 positively regulates cryptochrome circadian regulator 1/2 (CRY1/2) transcription and maintains rhythmicity. ERLIN2 regulates inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor (IP3R)-mediated Ca2+ release and activates the calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII)-mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)-cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) pathway. ATP induced IP3R-dependent Ca2+ transients, CREB phosphorylation, and Per1 expression, reshaping circadian rhythm, effects blocked by IP3R, Ca2+, or CaMKII inhibition. CRY1 enhances and CRY2 suppresses CREB signaling, establishing a feedback loop with ERLIN2. This ERLIN2-Ca2+-CREB-CRY1/2 axis couples membrane contact sites to circadian regulation. Impact statement This study reveals ERLIN2 as a key regulator linking calcium signaling to circadian rhythms, establishing an ERLIN2-Ca2+-CREB-CRY1/2 axis that advances understanding of cellular clock control.© 2026 Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
The role of circadian rhythm in regulating stemness in adult stem cells remains unclear. We investigated this in human epidermal stem and progenitor cells (EPSCs), finding that ~10% of expressed genes exhibit rhythmicity, with shared genes between fetal and adult EPSCs enriched in critical biological processes including the cell cycle, senescence, and apoptosis. Promoter motif analysis revealed ZFP42, a pluripotent stem cell marker, enriched in fetal rhythmic genes. ZFP42 knockdown led to the loss of stemness in human EPSCs and reduced expression of Cryptochrome Circadian Regulator 1 (CRY1), a core component of the molecular circadian clock that functions as a transcriptional repressor within the CLOCK-BMAL1 feedback loop, resulting in decreased cell proliferation and increased differentiation gene expression. These results highlight the critical role of ZFP42 in the circadian regulation of epidermal homeostasis, linking stemness maintenance to circadian mechanisms. Our findings deepen the understanding of how circadian rhythms govern epidermal stem cell functions.© 2026. The Author(s).
Anorexia nervosa (AN) is an eating disorder characterized by severe weight loss and associated with hyperactivity and circadian rhythm disruption. However, the cellular basis of circadian rhythm disruption is poorly understood. Glial cells in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), the principal circadian pacemaker, are involved in regulating circadian rhythms. We hypothesize that the circadian rhythm disruption in AN patients is associated with glial cell changes in the SCN.In the starvation-induced hyperactivity mouse model, mice had free access to a running wheel and received a restricted amount of food once a day, until a 25% body weight loss was reached and maintained their weight loss for two weeks. This was followed by a refeeding phase. Different daily periods of running wheel activity were defined, such as food anticipatory activity up to 4 h before feeding. Circadian rhythmicity was analyzed using the cosinor method. Gene expression was evaluated using real-time polymerase chain reaction. Immunohistochemistry was used to quantify astrocytes, microglia, and oligodendrocytes.Starvation induced changes in circadian rhythm, as indicated by changes in cosinor-based characteristics. Refeeding reversed these effects. Additionally, there was an increase in cryptochrome circadian regulator 1 expression and a decrease in the density of astrocytes and oligodendrocytes in the SCN after chronic starvation.Starvation-induced alterations in circadian rhythms are associated with molecular, and cellular changes in the hypothalamus. Reduced astrocytes and oligodendrocytes in the SCN in a mouse model of AN suggest that glial pathophysiology may play a role in circadian rhythm disruption.© 2025 The Author(s). International Journal of Eating Disorders published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
This study aims to investigate the mechanism of berberine in regulating the metabolism network via clock-controlled genes represented by brain and muscle arnt-like 1(BMAL1) to ameliorate insulin resistance(IR) of hepatocytes in vitro. The HepG2 cell model of dexamethasone-induced IR(IR-HepG2) was established and treated with 5, 10, and 20 μmol·L~(-1) berberine, respectively, for 24 h. The glucose oxidase method and cell counting kit-8(CCK-8) assay were employed to measure extracellular glucose concentration and cell viability, respectively. Periodic acid-Schiff(PAS) staining and lipid fluorescence method were used to detect glycogen and lipids. The immunofluorescence(IF) assay was employed to detect the nuclear localization of BMAL1 and circadian locomotor output cycles kaput(CLOCK) in IR-HepG2 cells. Western blot was employed to determine the protein levels of BMAL1, CLOCK, period circadian clock 2(PER2), cryptochrome circadian regulator 1(CRY1), Rev-Erbα, carbohydrate response element-binding protein(ChREBP), peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors alpha and gamma(PPARα/γ), sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1C(SREBP-1C), mammalian target of rapamycin(mTOR), protein kinase B(Akt), glycogen synthase kinase-3β(GSK3β), acetyl coenzyme A carboxylase 1(ACC1), fatty acid synthase(FASN), carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1α(CPT1α), nicotinamide phosphoribosyltransferase(NAMPT), silent information regulator 1(SIRT1), adiponectin(ADPN), insulin receptor substrate 2(IRS2), and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase regulatory subunit p85(PI3Kp85). In addition, the levels of phosphorylated adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase alpha(AMPKα), Akt, GSK3β, BMAL1, and mTOR were determined. Furthermore, 20 μmol·L~(-1) CLK8 was added to measure the glucose consumption as well as the protein levels of ChREBP, PPARα, and mTOR in IR-HepG2 cells. The results showed that berberine increased the glucose consumption, lowered the lipid levels, increased the expression and nuclear localization of BMAL1 and CLOCK, and up-regulated the level of BMAL1 in IR-HepG2 cells. Furthermore, berberine up-regulated the levels of ADPN, IRS2, PI3Kp85, p-Akt(Ser473)/Akt, p-mTOR(Ser2448)/mTOR, PPARα, and CPT1α, and down-regulated the levels of p-GSK3β(Ser9)/GSK3β, ChREBP, SREBP-1C, ACC1, and FASN. The addition of CLK8 reduced glucose consumption in IR-HepG2 cells, up-regulated the ChREBP level, and down-regulated PPARα and mTOR levels by inhibiting the BMAL1 and CLOCK interaction. In summary, berberine regulated glucose and lipid metabolism via clock-controlled genes with BMAL1 at the core to ameliorate IR of hepatocytes.
Acute sleep deprivation (ASD) is often observed in shift workers and characterized by drowsiness and unrelenting exhaustion. The physiological and psychological effects of ASD include anxiety, depression, cognitive impairment, systemic inflammation, stress responses, and disruptions of gut microbiota. However, the mechanisms involved in the ASD-associated circadian dysregulations with regard to gut dysbiosis, systemic inflammation, physiological modulation, and psychiatry disorders remain unclear. The aim of this study was to investigate whether central nervous system disorders induced by ASD are related to inflammation, barrier dysfunction, and circadian dysregulation. We also assessed impacts on microbiota succession. Male C57BL/6 mice were randomly allocated to the control and sleep deprivation (SD) groups. Mice in the SD group were subjected to 72 h of paradoxical SD using the modified multiple-platform method for ASD induction (72 h rapid eye movement-SD). The effects of ASD on dietary consumption, behaviors, cytokines, microbiota, and functional genes were determined. The appetite of the SD group was significantly higher than that of the control group, but the body weight was significantly lower than that of the control group. The anxiety-like behaviors were found in the SD group. Alpha and beta diversity of microbiota showed significant decrease after ASD induction; the relative abundance of Candidatus_Arthromitus and Enterobacter was increased, whereas that abundance of Lactobacillus, Muribaculum, Monoglobus, Parasutterella, and others was decreased in the SD group. These effects were accompanied by reduction in fecal propionic acid. In the proximal colon, the SD group exhibited significantly higher inflammation (tumor necrosis factor-α [TNF-α]) and dysregulation of the circadian rhythms (brain and muscle ARNT-like 1 [BMAL1] and cryptochrome circadian regulator 1 [CRY1]) and tight junction genes (occludin [OCLN]) than the control group. Gut barrier dysfunction slightly increased the plasma concentration of lipopolysaccharide and significantly elevated TNF-α. Inflammatory signals might be transduced through the brain via TNF receptor superfamily member 1 A (TNFRSF1A), which significantly increased the levels of microglia activation marker (ionized calcium-binding adapter molecule 1 [IBA1]) and chemokine (intercellular adhesion molecule 1 [ICAM1]) in the cerebral cortex. The serotonin receptor (5-hydroxytryptamine 1A receptor [5-HT1AR]) was significantly downregulated in the hippocampus. In summary, 72 h of rapid eye movement-SD induced physiological and psychological stress, which led to disruption of the circadian rhythms and gut microbiota dysbiosis; these effects were related to decrement of short chain fatty acids, gut inflammation, and hyperpermeability. The microbiota may be utilized as preventive and therapeutic strategies for ASD from the perspectives of medicine and nutrition.Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier GmbH.
Mental health and sleep quality are associated with genetics and nutrient and energy intake. The present study examined the association between ultra-processed food (UPF) intake and genetic risk score (GRS) and their interactions on mental health and sleep quality in Iranian women.A cross-sectional study was conducted on 278 overweight and obese females aged between 18 and 56 years. According to the NOVA classification system, 37 food groups and beverages were collected using a 147-item semi-quantitative food frequency questionnaire (FFQ). The blood parameters of all participants were assessed. Mini-column kit (type G; Genall; Exgene) and the PCR-RFLP method were used to extract DNA and determine gene polymorphism, respectively. Three single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), including Caveolin_1 (Cav_1), Melanocortin4 receptor (MC4R), and cryptochrome circadian regulator 1 (CRY1), were used to calculate GRS. The individual risk allele (0, 1, 2) for each SNP was calculated using the incremental genetic model.After controlling for confounders, a significant interaction was found for depression (β = 0.026, 95% CI 0.003, 0.049, P = 0.028) and depression anxiety stress scales (DASS) score (β = 0.059, 95% CI 0.001, 0.117, P = 0.046) on the NOVA classification system and GRS.The findings of this study showed a significant interaction between GRS and the NOVA classification system on mental disorders, including depression, DASS score and stress. There was also a significant relationship between the NOVA classification system and anxiety, DASS score, sleep quality and depression. Furthermore, a partially significant association was observed between GRS and stress.Level V, cross-sectional descriptive study.© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
The biological clock (also known as circadian clock) is closely related to growth and development, metabolism, and diseases in animals. As a part of the circadian clock, the cryptochrome circadian regulator 1 (CRY1) gene is involved in the regulation of biological processes such as osteogenesis, energy metabolism and cell proliferation, however, few studies have been reported on the relationship between this gene and animal carcass traits. Herein, a total of four insertion/deletion (InDel) loci within the CRY1 gene were detected in Shandong Black Cattle Genetic Resource (SDBCGR) population (n = 433). Among them, the P1-6-bp-del locus was polymorphic in population of interest. Moreover, the P1-6-bp-del locus showed two genotypes, with a higher insertion/insertion (II) genotype frequency (0.751) than insertion/deletion (ID) genotype frequency (0.249). Correlation analysis showed that the P1-6-bp-del locus polymorphisms were significantly associated with twenty carcass traits (e.g., slaughter weight, limb weight, and belly meat weight). Individuals with II genotype were significantly better than those with ID genotype for eighteen carcass traits. Therefore, the P1-6-bp-del locus of the CRY1 gene can be used as a molecular marker for beef cattle breeding.
Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) are genetic risk factors for type 2 diabetes (T2D). SNPs of the cryptochrome circadian regulator 2 (CRY2), hepatocyte nuclear factor 1α, prospero homeobox 1 and glucose-6-phosphatase catalytic subunit (G6PC2) genes are associated with T2D. To the best of our knowledge, however, the association is unclear in African patients and the burden of T2D is growing rapidly in Africa. The present study aimed to investigate SNPs of cryptochrome circadian regulator 2 (CRY2), hepatocyte nuclear factor 1α, prospero homeobox 1 and glucose-6-phosphatase catalytic subunit (G6PC2) genes in T2D in a South African population. The study included 310 participants with T2D and 310 healthy controls. Demographic and lifestyle characteristics were self-reported, while anthropometric and biochemical measurements were determined using standard methods. Plasma glucose and insulin were measured by enzymatic hexokinase method and paramagnetic particle chemiluminescence assay, respectively. Highly sensitive c-reactive protein (hs-CRP) was measured by ELISA. iPLEX SNP genotyping was used for SNP analysis and results were confirmed by Sanger sequencing. Insulin resistance measured using the homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) formula was significantly higher in carriers of the recessive rs11605924 (P=0.049), fasting plasma glucose was significantly lower in carriers of the recessive rs560887 (P=0.015) and highly sensitive c-reactive protein levels were significantly lower in carriers of the recessive rs1169288 (P=0.018). The risk of T2D was significantly higher in participants with the recessive rs560887 [odds ratio (OR)=1.58, 95% CI, 1.02-2.44, P=0.041) and rs11605924 (OR=1.82, 95% CI, 1.03-3.23, P=0.041) compared with the dominant alleles. CRY2 and G6PC2 SNPs were associated with an increased risk of T2D and may partly contribute to high prevalence of T2D in the mixed ancestry South African population. Further studies are warranted to validate these findings in other African populations and explore downstream pathways.Copyright: © 2025 Ndonwi et al.
The cryptochromes are flavoproteins that either individually or synergistically respond to light and magnetic field directionality as well as are implicated in circadian rhythm entrainment and development. Single brief exposures (10 min) to low energy (1.5 mT) pulsed electromagnetic fields (PEMFs) were previously shown to enhance myogenesis by stimulating transient receptor potential canonical 1 (TRPC1)-mediated Ca2+ entry, whereby downwardly directed fields produced greater myogenic enhancement than upwardly directed fields. Here, we show that growth in the dark results in myoblasts losing their sensitivity to both magnetic field exposure and directionality. By contrast, overexpressing or silencing cryptochrome circadian regulator 2 (CRY2) in myoblasts enhances or reduces PEMF responses, respectively, under conditions of ambient light. Reducing cellular flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD) content by silencing riboflavin kinase (RFK) attenuated responsiveness to PEMFs and inhibited selectivity for magnetic field direction. The upregulation of TRPC1 and cell cycle regulatory proteins typically observed in response to PEMF exposure was instead attenuated by upwardly directed magnetic fields, growth in the darkness, magnetic shielding, or the silencing of CRY2 or RFK. A physical interaction between CRY2 and TRPC1 was detected using coimmunoprecipitation and immunofluorescence, revealing their co-translocation into the nucleus after PEMF exposure. These results implicate CRY2 in an identified TRPC1-dependent magnetotransduction myogenic cascade.
Melatonin (Mel) serves as the central regulator for maintaining circadian rhythms and plays a crucial role not only in controlling the rhythmic clock, but also in several functional domains such as immunomodulation and anti-inflammation. In this study, we explored the clinical relevance of Mel and rheumatoid arthritis comorbid with interstitial lung disease (RA-ILD), and its potential therapeutic effects on arthropathy and pulmonary fibrosis (PF) in mice with collagen-induced arthritis (CIA). The results demonstrated that low serum levels of Mel were correlated with disease activity and severity of PF in RA-ILD patients. In addition, Mel was potentially efficacious in alleviating arthritis, bone destruction, and PF in a mouse model of CIA. Meanwhile, we observed that in lung tissues, the circadian-clock genes (CCGs) period circadian regulator 2 (PER2) and cryptochrome circadian regulator 2 (CRY2) were predominantly expressed in epithelial cells (ECs), and the regulation of their expression in ECs was closely correlated with Mel-mediated suppression of inflammatory responses and a significant reduction in macrophagic inflammatory activity. These results implied that Mel and its associated CCGs might play important regulatory roles in RA-ILD and its associated pathological processes.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
To evaluate relative expression of genes with the potential to translate environmental stimuli into long-term alterations in the brain - namely Early Growth Response (EGR)1, EGR3, and Cryptochrome Circadian Regulator 2 (CRY2) - in peripheral blood from patients with Bipolar Disorder (BD), Schizophrenia (SZ), Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) and healthy controls (HC).Thirty individuals ranging from 18 to 60 years were recruited for each group (BD, SZ, MDD or HC) from a Brazilian public hospital. Therefore, individuals' peripheral blood was collected and EGR1, EGR3 and CRY2 gene expression analyzed by PCR Real Time.EGR1 mRNA levels are significantly lower in psychiatric patients when compared to HC, but there is no difference for EGR3 and CRY2. Exploring the findings for each diagnosis, there is a significant difference between each diagnosis group only for EGR1, which was lower in BD, MDD and SZ as compared to HC. No significant correlations were found between gene expression and clinical features.EGR1 is downregulated in psychiatric patients, regardless of the diagnosis and may be a potential common target in major psychiatric disorders. EGR1, as a transcription factor, modulates many other genes and participates in crucial neuronal and synaptic processes, such as plasticity, neurotransmitters metabolism, vesicular transport and signaling pathways. The study of EGR1 and its upstream regulators in psychiatry might lead to potential new therapeutic targets.
Sertraline (SER) is one of the most commonly detected antidepressants in the aquatic environment that can negatively affect aquatic organisms at low concentrations. Despite some knowledge on its acute toxicity to fish, the effects of chronic SER exposure remain poorly understood along with any underlying mechanisms of SER-induced toxicity. To address this knowledge gap, the effects of chronic exposure to three SER concentrations from low to high were investigated in zebrafish. Juvenile zebrafish were exposed to three concentrations of 1, 10, or 100 μg/L of SER for 28 d, after which indicators of oxidative stress and neurotoxicity in the brain were measured. Superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity was significantly enhanced by SER at 1 up to 100 μg/L, and catalase (CAT) activity was significantly induced by SER at 1 or 10 μg/L. The activity of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) was significantly induced by 10 and 100 μg/L of SER, and the serotonin (5-HT) level was significantly increased by all three concentrations of SER. To ascertain mechanisms of SER-induced toxicity, transcriptomics was conducted in the brain of zebrafish following 100 μg/L SER exposure. The molecular signaling pathways connected with circadian system and the immune system were significantly altered in the zebrafish brain. Based on transcriptomic data, the expression levels of six circadian clock genes were measured, and three genes were significantly altered in relative abundance in fish from all experimental treatments with SER, including cryptochrome circadian regulator 2 (cry2), period circadian clock 2 (per2), and period circadian clock 3 (per3). We hypothesize that the circadian system may be related to SER-induced neurotoxicity and oxidative stress in the central nervous system. This study reveals potential mechanisms and key events (i.e., oxidative stress and neurotoxicity) associated with SER-induced toxicity, and improves understanding of the molecular and biochemical pathways putatively perturbed by SER.Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Most of the microRNAs (MiRs) involved in myogenesis are transcriptional regulated. The role of MiR biogenesis in myogenesis has not been characterized yet. RNA-binding protein Musashi 2 (Msi2) is considered to be one of the major drivers for oncogenesis and stem cell proliferation. The functions of Msi2 in myogenesis have not been explored yet. We sought to investigate Msi2-regulated biogenesis of MiRs in myogenesis and muscle stem cell (MuSC) ageing.We detected the expression of Msi2 in MuSCs and differentiated myotubes by quantitative reverse transcription PCR (RT-qPCR) and western blot. Msi2-binding partner human antigen R (HuR) was identified by immunoprecipitation followed by mass spectrometry analysis. The cooperative binding of Msi2 and HuR on MiR7a-1 was analysed by RNA immunoprecipitation and electrophoresis mobility shift assays. The inhibition of the processing of pri-MiR7a-1 mediated by Msi2 and HuR was shown by Msi2 and HuR knockdown. Immunofluorescent staining, RT-qPCR and immunoblotting were used to characterize the function of MiR7a-1 in myogenesis. Msi2 and HuR up-regulate cryptochrome circadian regulator 2 (Cry2) via MiR7a-1 was confirmed by the luciferase assay and western blot. The post-transcriptional regulatory cascade was further confirmed by RNAi and overexpressing of Msi2 and HuR in MuSCs, and the in vivo function was characterized by histopathological and molecular biological methods in Msi2 knockout mice.We identified a post-transcription regulatory cascade governed by a pair of RNA-binding proteins Msi2 and HuR. Msi2 is enriched in differentiated muscle cells and promotes MuSC differentiation despite its pro-proliferation functions in other cell types. Msi2 works synergistically with another RNA-binding protein HuR to repress the biogenesis of MiR7a-1 in an Msi2 dose-dependent manner to regulate the translation of the key component of the circadian core oscillator complex Cry2. Down-regulation of Cry2 (0.6-fold, vs. control, P < 0.05) mediated by MiR7a-1 represses MuSC differentiation. The disruption of this cascade leads to differentiation defects of MuSCs. In aged muscles, Msi2 (0.3-fold, vs. control, P < 0.01) expression declined, and the Cry2 protein level also decreases (0.5-fold, vs. control, P < 0.05), suggesting that the disruption of the Msi2-mediated post-transcriptional regulatory cascade could attribute to the declined ability of muscle regeneration in aged skeletal muscle.Our findings have identified a new post-transcriptional cascade regulating myogenesis. The cascade is disrupted in skeletal muscle ageing, which leads to declined muscle regeneration ability.© 2021 The Authors. Journal of Cachexia, Sarcopenia and Muscle published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Society on Sarcopenia, Cachexia and Wasting Disorders.
Ovarian cancer ranks 7th among the most common cancer types affecting women worldwide. A number of studies have confirmed that multiple long non-coding RNAs participate in the occurrence and progression of ovarian cancer. Small nucleolar RNA host gene 9 (SNHG9) serves a role in the progression of glioblastoma and pancreatic cancer. However, the specific biological function of SNHG9 in ovarian cancer has not yet been fully investigated. The present study aimed to determine the biological role and potential molecular mechanism underlying the influence of SNHG9 in ovarian cancer. SNHG9 expression in ovarian cancer cell lines and tissues were measured via reverse transcription-quantitative PCR analysis, and cell proliferation was detected via Cell Counting Kit-8 and colony formation assays. Flow cytometry was performed to assess cell cycle progression, and Transwell and wound healing assays were performed to assess cell invasion and migration abilities. Bioinformatics software was utilized to determine the target genes of SNHG9, which were subsequently verified via dual-luciferase reporter and RNA immunoprecipitation assays. The results demonstrated that SNHG9 expression was remarkably lower in ovarian cancer cell lines and tissues compared with the negative controls. Cell function assays demonstrated that decreased SNHG9 expression notably induced the migration, colony formation, proliferation and invasiveness of ovarian cancer cells. Furthermore, the inhibitory effect of SNHG9 on the migration, colony formation, proliferation and invasion of ovarian cancer cells was partially reversed by miR-214-5p upregulation. Thus, taken together, the current results suggest that SNHG9 may serve as a tumor suppressor gene in ovarian cancer by regulating the miR-214-5p/cryptochrome circadian regulator 2 axis.Copyright: © Chen et al.
Hypertrophic scars, caused by abnormal wound healing after injury, involve excessive fibroblast activity, ECM dysregulation, and inflammation. Bioactive peptides show antifibrotic potential. Based on our previous discovery of scar-modulating peptides from adipose-derived stem cells, this study reveals how ADSCP6 (Adipose-derived stem cell peptide 6) suppresses hypertrophic scarring. In vitro analyses revealed that ADSCP6 significantly downregulated type I collagen and ACTA2 (alpha smooth muscle actin) expression in human hypertrophic scar fibroblasts (HSFs), without altering proliferative/apoptotic activity. In vivo, topical ADSCP6 administration enhanced wound healing and attenuated collagen content in a murine excisional wound model. Transcriptomic profiling (RNA-seq) identified 328 differentially expressed genes (182 upregulated, 146 downregulated) post-treatment, with KEGG (kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes) pathway enrichment implicating NF-κB (nuclear factor kappa-B) signaling as a primary mechanism. Protein interaction assays (pull-down/cellular thermal shift assays) identified KANK2 (KN motif and ankyrin repeat domains 2) and ADGRE2/EMR2 (adhesion G protein-coupled receptor E2) as ADSCP6-binding partners, while western blot confirmed NF-κB1 (p50) upregulation. Functional validation demonstrated that NF-κB pathway blockade abrogated ADSCP6's antifibrotic effects. ADSCP6 reduced the expression of FAK, STAT3, and SMAD2 proteins. Macrophage-conditioned media from ADSCP6-treated cultures suppressed HSFs collagen synthesis, and ADSCP6 significantly enhanced HUVEC (human umbilical vein endothelial cells) tubulogenesis, suggesting pro-angiogenic activity. Overall, these findings establish ADSCP6 as a multifunctional therapeutic peptide that concurrently attenuates fibrotic progression and accelerates wound healing, positioning it as a novel candidate for clinical scar management.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The mortality rate linked with nephrotic syndrome (NS) is quite high. The renal tubular injury influences the response of NS patients to steroid treatment. KN motif and ankyrin repeat domains 2 (KANK2) regulates actin polymerization, which is required for renal tubular cells to maintain their function. In this study, we found that the levels of KANK2 in patients with NS were considerably lower than those in healthy controls, especially in NS patients with acute kidney injury (AKI). To get a deeper understanding of the KANK2 transcriptional control mechanism, the core promoter region of the KANK2 gene was identified. KANK2 was further found to be positively regulated by E2F Transcription Factor 1 (E2F1), Transcription Factor AP-2 Gamma (TFAP2C), and Nuclear Respiratory Factor 1 (NRF1), both at mRNA and protein levels. Knocking down E2F1, TFAP2C, or NRF1 deformed the cytoskeleton of renal tubular cells and reduced F-actin content. EMSA and ChIP assays confirmed that all three transcription factors could bind to the upstream promoter transcription site of KANK2 to transactivate KANK2 in renal tubular epithelial cells. Our study suggests that E2F1, TFAP2C, and NRF1 play essential roles in regulating the KANK2 transcription, therefore shedding fresh light on the development of putative therapeutic options for the treatment of NS patients.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42566092 is a review article
Phenolic compounds are recognized for antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and antidiabetic properties. Lentils are abundant in these compounds, yet comparative studies across varieties and intestinal cells effects remain limited. This study evaluated the nutritional composition, phenolic profile, antioxidant activity, and α-glucosidase inhibition of four lentil types in raw and cooked forms. L01 had the highest bioactive potential and was the only one selected for further evaluation in Caco-2 cells under basal and IL-1β-stimulated conditions. Cooking altered composition, leading to higher protein, fiber, and carbohydrates, reducing tannins, and maintaining high phytic acid in some varieties. L01 consistently showed the highest phenolic content, antioxidant activity, and enzyme inhibition. Its phenolic profile was dominated by kaempferol derivatives, (epi)catechin, and procyanidins, with cooking increasing monomeric catechins but reducing procyanidin oligomers. At noncytotoxic levels, L01 extracts reduced IL-6/8 secretion in stimulated cells, with stronger effects from raw extracts. Additionally, they decreased expression of inflammatory markers (IL-6/8/1β) while increasing expression of metabolic regulation- and barrier-related genes (Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ, Sirtuin 1, Occludin, and Cadherin-1). Only raw extracts significantly enhanced Heme oxygenase-1 expression under stimulation. These findings highlight compositional differences beyond tegument color and support further investigation of phenolic-rich lentils as potential functional food ingredients targeting gut and metabolic health.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Doxorubicin (DOX) is a potent anthracycline chemotherapeutic agent, but its clinical use is limited by cumulative cardiotoxicity. Exercise, particularly high-intensity interval training (HIIT), has emerged as an effective non-pharmacological strategy to counteract chemotherapy-induced cardiac injury. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the cardioprotective effects of HIIT remain unclear. This study aimed to determine whether HIIT attenuates DOX-induced cardiotoxicity via activation of the fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21)/sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) signalling pathway in rats. Thirty-three male Wistar rats (200-250 g) were randomly assigned to three groups (n = 11 each): control (CONTROL), DOX-treated sedentary (DOX-Sed) and DOX-treated HIIT (DOX-HIIT). DOX-induced cardiotoxicity was induced by intraperitoneal DOX injections (12 mg/kg cumulative dose over 12 days). After confirmation of cardiac dysfunction by echocardiography, the DOX-HIIT group completed an 8 week treadmill HIIT programme (three sessions per week, five intervals of 4 min at 85%-90% of maximal O2 uptake separated by 2 min at 50%-60% of maximal O2 uptake). Cardiac function, oxidative stress markers, inflammatory cytokines, plasma levels of FGF21 and protein expression of FGFR1 and the SIRT1/AMPK/Nrf2 pathway were assessed. HIIT improved survival (81.8% vs. 63.6% in DOX-Sed), prevented weight loss and ameliorated left ventricular systolic dysfunction, as evidenced by increased ejection fraction and fractional shortening (P < 0.05). HIIT reduced cardiac interleukin-6, tumor necrosis factor-α, interleukin-1β and malondialdehyde levels while elevating antioxidant enzyme activities. Mechanistically, HIIT increased plasma FGF21 and phosphorylated FGFR1 and upregulated SIRT1, LKB1 and phosphorylated AMPK, leading to activation of the Nrf2/HO-1 antioxidant pathway. Therefore, HIIT-induced FGF21 has a potential therapeutic effect on cardiac function in DOX-induced cardiotoxicity through activation of the FGF21/SIRT1/LKB1/AMPK/Nrf2/HO-1 signalling pathway.© 2026 The Author(s). Experimental Physiology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of The Physiological Society.
The use of cannabinoid has been implicated in the treatment of various skin disorders with obscure mechanism of action. This study aimed to investigate the physiological roles of GPR55 in regenerating skin wounds and protecting keratinocyte apoptosis induced by UVB radiation. Here, we found that O1602, a GPR55 agonist, accelerated wound healing in keratinocyte-like HaCaT cells, and this effect was suppressed by pretreatment with inhibitors of protein kinase A (PKA), AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), sirtuin-1 (SIRT-1), and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK). Although O1602 treatment promoted keratinocyte proliferation in HaCaT cell line but its proliferative effect did not contribute to enhancing wound healing. Indeed, O1602 upregulated expression of MMP-9, suggesting the stimulation of cell migration. O1602 treatment protected against UVB-induced keratinocyte apoptosis, and this effect was abolished by pretreatment with inhibitors belonging to the same class as that which suppressed the wound-healing response. Furthermore, western blotting analyses revealed that O1602 treatment induced AMPK phosphorylation, and this effect was inhibited by pretreatment of PKA inhibitor. Moreover, O1602 promoted ERK phosphorylation, and this effect was aborted by pretreatment of either AMPK inhibitor or SIRT-1 inhibitor. Enzymatic activation of SIRT-1 induced by O1602 was absent in AMPK inhibitor-pretreated HaCaT cells. Altogether, GPR55 mediates keratinocyte regeneration and exhibits its protective effect against UVB exposure via PKA/AMPK/SIRT-1/ERK-dependent mechanism.
Chronic morphine consumption induces oxidative stress and renal dysfunction, effects that may be exacerbated by aging-related declines in adaptive capacity. Regular endurance exercise enhances antioxidant defense and mitochondrial regulation; however, its ability to counteract morphine-induced renal alterations across different stages of aging remains insufficiently characterized.Male wistar rats, categorized as young and aged based on chronological age and body weight, were allocated to control, morphine, exercise, and morphine plus exercise groups within each age category. Morphine was administered via drinking water for four weeks. Concurrently, animals in the exercise groups performed moderate-intensity continuous training on a treadmill. At study completion, serum and renal tissues were collected for assessment of oxidative stress markers (MDA, TAC, SOD), MPO, renal function indices (BUN and creatinine), and renal expression of sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) and Klotho, Mitochondrial compatibility markers (Citrate synthase activity and TFAM).Chronic morphine exposure was associated with increased oxidative stress markers and decreased antioxidant capacity in kidney tissue, and simultaneously increased serum urea and creatinine levels in young and old mice, indicating impaired renal functional status. Chronic morphine administration also decreased SIRT1 and Klotho levels in young and old animals. In contrast, 4 weeks of endurance training improved markers of mitochondrial adaptation, oxidative balance, and renal function, which were associated with increased expression of SIRT1 and Klotho in kidney tissue. These changes could indicate a potential link between exercise training and molecular pathways involved in the regulation of oxidative stress and renal homeostasis. However, these findings suggest an association, and causal or mechanistic interpretations will require further investigation in future studies.These findings indicate that endurance training is associated with more favorable renal biomarker profiles in the context of chronic opioid exposure.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Effective psychotherapeutic interventions for post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) rely on fear extinction to suppress maladaptive fear responses, yet their long-term efficacy is limited by high relapse rates. Notably, extinction involves not only fear inhibition but also affective engagement. However, whether and how internal affective components contribute to extinction retrieval and long-term persistence remain unclear. Here, we demonstrate that positive affective experiences arising during extinction govern the long-term persistence of extinction and resistance to spontaneous recovery. We identify a subpopulation of medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) extinction neurons projecting to supramammillary nucleus glutamatergic (SuMGlu) neurons that encodes positive affective experience during extinction and selectively governs long-term extinction persistence. This ensemble is spatially, anatomically, and transcriptionally distinct from mPFC extinction neurons projecting to zona incerta somatostatin-expressing (ZISST) neurons, which primarily support extinction retrieval. Transcriptomic profiling reveals enrichment of sirtuin 1 (Sirt1) within SuM-projecting extinction ensembles, and bidirectional manipulation of SIRT1 alters extinction relapse vulnerability in a PTSD mouse model. These findings provide a cortical-hypothalamic framework incorporating molecular features that governs the long-term persistence of fear extinction and resistance to relapse through positive affective processes.
Nicotinamide mononucleotide (NMN), a key precursor of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+), has recently emerged as a promising therapeutic candidate for age-related diseases. This review critically evaluates preclinical evidence regarding the effects of NMN on ovarian health, with particular emphasis on its potential to attenuate ovarian aging, improve follicular reserve, and restore endocrine function. Animal studies have demonstrated that NMN supplementation enhances mitochondrial function, reduces oxidative stress, and modulates sirtuin activity in ovarian tissue. These effects contributed to improved oocyte quality, delayed ovarian senescence, and prolonged reproductive lifespan. In models of chemotherapy-induced ovarian insufficiency and age-related ovarian decline, NMN administration was associated with increased folliculogenesis and normalization of hormonal profiles. Furthermore, the anti-inflammatory and anti-apoptotic properties of NMN suggest potential therapeutic applications in conditions such as premature ovarian insufficiency and polycystic ovary syndrome. Despite encouraging findings in rodent models, clinical translation remains limited. This review summarizes the key molecular pathways influenced by NMN, including the NAD+/sirtuin-1 (SIRT1) axis, and highlights important gaps in current knowledge. Collectively, the available evidence underscores the therapeutic potential of NMN while emphasizing the need for well-designed human studies to establish its efficacy and safety in reproductive medicine.
SIRT1 (sirtuin-1) regulates various cellular and metabolic processes in the vasculature. SIRT1 is an NAD+-dependent deacetylase that deacetylates transcription factors that control vascular inflammation and remodeling. Given that pathways regulated by SIRT1 are implicated in the pathophysiology of intracranial aneurysms, we hypothesized that activation and overexpression of SIRT1 prevent aneurysm rupture by suppressing vascular inflammation.Intracranial aneurysms were induced in mice by systemic hypertension and a single intracisternal injection of elastase. We analyzed the expression of SIRT1 in human and mouse aneurysms. We investigated the role of SIRT1 in aneurysm rupture using genetic overexpression of SIRT1 and cell-specific deletion in the endothelial, vascular smooth muscle, and myeloid lineages. We administered a SIRT1 activator and a SIRT1 inhibitor to assess the rupture rate and mRNA expression in cerebral arteries.SIRT1 expression was significantly lower in intracranial aneurysm tissues than in control cerebral arteries in mice, with a similar trend in human aneurysms. Global overexpression of SIRT1 significantly decreased the rupture rate. Endothelial SIRT1 deletion increased the rupture rate, with no effect observed in other cell types. Inhibition of SIRT1 increased the rupture rate, whereas SIRT1 activation reduced the rupture rate and suppressed mRNA expression of proinflammatory cytokines in cerebral arteries.Our findings support a protective role of SIRT1 against intracranial aneurysm rupture in mice, with endothelial SIRT1 playing an important role in aneurysm stabilization. Pharmacological SIRT1 activation reduced aneurysm rupture and was associated with reduced vascular inflammation, providing a preclinical rationale for further investigation of SIRT1-related pathways.
Women with gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) are more likely to develop cardiovascular disease (CVD) within 3 to 10 years following pregnancy. Despite a return to normoglycemia shortly after gestation, GDM mothers still possess an increased risk of future CVD. In this study, we use a novel preclinical hormonal model of GDM to examine the mechanisms underlying future vascular and cardiac dysfunction in mothers with a history of GDM. We treated 16-week-old pregnant C57BL/6J mice with the insulin receptor antagonist (S961; 30nmol/kg, s.c.) from gestational day (GD) 7 (second trimester of pregnancy) until delivery to induce GDM. GDM mice developed systolic and diastolic dysfunction, arterial stiffness, hypertension, increased cardiac mass, and exercise intolerance at 10 weeks postpartum compared with saline-treated pregnant or S961-treated virgin mice. We also observed decreased plasma nitric oxide (NO) and increased endothelin-1 (ET-1) in GDM. The aorta of S961-induced GDM mice had increased pulse wave velocity, impaired vascular relaxation, remodeling, elevated reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and adhesion molecules, increased ET-1 type A receptor expression, and reduced sirtuin-1 (SIRT-1) expression. The left ventricle of S961-induced GDM mice exhibited fibrosis, thickness, and increased ROS production. Additionally, alterations in cardiac kinase activity in the nitric oxide/cyclic guanosine monophosphate/protein kinase G (NO/cGMP/PRKG) and AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) alpha pathways were observed at 10 weeks postpartum using novel Pamgene kinome technology. Thus, endothelin activation, suppressed NO/cGMP/PRKG signaling, impaired AMPK, and altered SIRT1 may be responsible for the development of vascular stiffness and cardiac dysfunction in mothers with a history of GDM.
Mammarenaviruses (MaAv) cause persistent infections in diverse rodent reservoirs worldwide and several are zoonotic pathogens with an important public-health burden in their endemic regions. Moreover, the globally distributed MaAv lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) is an underrecognized pathogen of clinical significance in congenital infections and immunocompromised individuals. The lack of FDA-approved vaccines or antivirals for MaAv infections underscores the urgent need for novel anti-MaAv therapeutic strategies. Neutral sphingomyelinase 2 (nSMase2) was recently identified as a host factor contributing to LCMV multiplication, and its inhibitor cambinol exhibits dose-dependent antiviral activity against LCMV but the underlying mechanisms remain undefined. Here, we show that cambinol disrupts multiple stages of the LCMV life cycle. Cambinol inhibits the pH-dependent fusion event mediated by MaAv glycoprotein, a step required for completion of virus cell entry. It also reduces viral ribonucleoprotein (vRNP)-directed genome replication and transcription and impairs the budding activity of the virus matrix Z protein. Cambinol also inhibits sirtuins 1 and 2 (Sirt-1 and Sirt-2), two NAD + -dependent protein deacetylases with pleiotropic roles in cellular metabolism and stress responses, raising the question of whether cambinol anti-LCMV activity reflects nSMase2 inhibition alone or also involves sirtuin-dependent pathways. LCMV multiplication was significantly reduced in SIRT1, but not SIRT2, knockout (KO) cells, uncovering a pro-viral role for Sirt-1 in the LCMV life cycle. Consistent with this finding, LCMV vRNP activity and production of infectious progeny were reduced in SIRT1 KO cells. These findings identify Sirt-1 as a host factor required for optimal LCMV multiplication. Sirt-1 inhibitors are in clinical development for oncological and neurological indications, raising the possibility of repurposing Sirt-1 inhibitors as host-directed antivirals (HDAs) against human pathogenic MaAv.
The progression of acute coronary syndrome (ACS) is primarily determined by the transition from stable to vulnerable atherosclerotic plaque. The primary objective of this study was to investigate the mechanism of SLC25A25 antisense RNA 1 (SLC25A25-AS1) in ACS. The level of SLC25A25-AS1 was determined using reverse transcription quantitative real-time PCR (RT-qPCR) in serum samples from healthy controls (n = 81) and ACS patients (n = 162). The clinical relevance of SLC25A25-AS1 in ACS was evaluated through correlation, receiver operating characteristic (ROC), and logistic regression analyses. SLC25A25-AS1 was significantly downregulated in ACS patients. Overexpression of SLC25A25-AS1 protected oxidized low-density lipoprotein (ox-LDL) treated human coronary artery smooth muscle cells (HCASMCs) from damage in an in vitro atherosclerosis model. Specifically, these protective effects were against abnormal cell proliferation, inflammatory responses, cell migration, and maintenance of the contractile phenotype in HCASMCs. Both bioinformatics analyses and experimental validation confirmed the existence of the SLC25A25-AS1/ microRNA‑34a‑5p (miR-34a-5p)/Forkhead box P1 (FOXP1) regulatory axis. Collectively, SLC25A25-AS1 modulated ox-LDL-induced atherosclerotic responses in HCASMCs through the miR-34a-5p/FOXP1 pathway. These findings suggested that SLC25A25-AS1 may play a protective role in ACS by alleviating ox-LDL-induced HCASMC dysfunction and inflammation via the miR-34a-5p/FOXP1 axis.
Rs9939609 marker in FTO Alpha-Ketoglutarate-Dependent Dioxygenase (FTO) gene, rs7895307 in Transcription Factor 7-Like 2 (TCF7L2) gene, and rs75493593 in Solute Carrier Family 16 Member 11 (SLC16A11) gene have been associated with anthropometric, metabolic, and clinical variables, but have not been concurrently studied in Mexican children and adolescents with adiposity or mental disorders. In this cross-sectional association study, we genotyped these markers by means of TaqMan real-time polymerase chain reaction in two at-risk pediatric cohorts recruited in Mexico City. Group 1 (n = 175) comprised children and adolescents with overweight/obesity. Group 2 (n = 296) consisted of non-medicated adolescents meeting the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, fourth edition criteria for Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder or a mood disorder. Anthropometric measurements (body mass index -BMI-, waist circumference, body fat percentage), metabolic indices (fasting glucose, lipid profile, Homeostatic Model Assessment for Insulin Resistance), and psychiatric diagnoses were evaluated. In Group 1, the FTO A allele (genotypes AA/AT) was significantly associated with severe obesity according to BMI Z scores (p = 0.004, O.R. 3.33, 95% CI [1.42-7.77]), and it was a predictor of waist circumference (B = 6.16, 95% CI [1.78-10.55], p = 0.006) and muscle percentage (B = 4.21%, 95% CI [0.91-7.51%], p = 0.013) using linear regression models adjusted for age and sex. In Group 2, TCF7L2 AA genotype was associated with increased odds of depression (B = 0.83, p = 0.003, OR = 2.29, 95% CI [1.32-3.96]). While SLC16A11 G allele showed a possible association with insulin resistance or glucose levels, confirmation is needed. These exploratory results highlight the need for larger, well characterized cohort studies to confirm the associations.
The genetic background of hypertriglyceridemia is complex. In this systematic review and meta-analysis, we determined genetic variants associated with fasting triglyceride (TG) and very-low-density lipoprotein-TG (VLDL-TG) concentrations in European adults.We searched PubMed and the National Human Genome Research Institute-European Bioinformatics Institute (NHGRI-EBI) genome-wide association studies catalog for studies on genetic variants associated with fasting TG and VLDL-TG concentrations. We performed the meta-analysis on 23 variants from studies that met our criteria. A fixed-effects model was applied, with a random-effects model used when significant heterogeneity was detected. The Ensembl Variant Effect Predictor was used to annotate these variants.Overall, 157 studies were included, of which 130 were used for meta-analysis. Overall, 1837 variants were related to fasting TG and/or VLDL-TG (P ≤ .05). Our meta-analysis revealed 11 genetic variants associated with fasting TG: rs58542926 in the transmembrane 6 superfamily member 2 (TM6SF2) gene, rs738409 in the patatin-like phospholipase domain-containing protein 3 (PNPLA3) gene, rs7903146 in the transcription factor 7-like 2 (TCF7L2) gene, rs320 and rs328 in the lipoprotein lipase (LPL) gene, and rs1801282 in the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ2 (PPARγ2) gene were associated with lower TG concentrations, while rs693 in the apolipoprotein-B (APOB) gene, rs5128 in the apolipoprotein-c3 (APOC3) gene, rs662799 in the apolipoprotein A-V (APOA5) gene, rs662 in the paraoxonase 1 (PON1) gene, and rs1800588 in the hepatic lipase C (LIPC) gene were associated with higher TG concentrations. Five of those (rs58542926, rs738409, rs320, rs328, and rs1801282) were predicted to be deleterious to the protein function.This study identified variants associated with fasting TG and/or VLDL-TG concentrations in European adults, which may help in identifying genetically susceptible individuals and strengthening the accuracy of genetic risk prediction for TG-related outcomes.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Forkhead Box P1 (Foxp1) is a transcription factor critical for the proper development of multiple tissues. While Foxp1 has a well-described role in regulating adaptive immunity through modulation of T and B cells, a function in medullary thymic epithelial cells (mTECs) has not been reported. Here we show that Foxp1 is expressed in mTECs and deletion of Foxp1 in TECs results in significant changes to mTEC populations. Surprisingly, Foxp1-deletion results in an expansion of neuroendocrine mTECs and Ccl21a-expressing mTECs and a loss of Aire mTECs, tuft cells, and microfold mTECs. With these changes in mimetic mTECs there are alterations to the thymus with enhanced thymic size, shifts in thymic innate lymphocyte populations, and loss of thymic B cell class switching. Mechanistically, scRNA-seq gene expression analysis of mTECs reveals decreased Fezf2 gene expression with loss of Foxp1 in mTECs resulting in attenuated Fezf2-induced tissue specific antigen gene expression, and autoimmunity in aged mice. Altogether, our studies reveal that Foxp1 moderates mimetic mTECs and Fezf2-dependent gene expression resulting in significant changes to mTEC population diversity.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Our study investigated the association between transcription factor 7-like 2 (TCF7L2-rs7903146), angiotensin convertase enzyme (ACE-rs4646994), angiotensinogen (AGT-rs699), angiotensin II type 1 receptor (AGT1R-rs5186), fat mass and obesity-associated (FTO-rs17817499) and melanocortin 4 receptor (MC4R-rs17782313, rs12970134 and rs229616) single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) with type 2 diabetes (T2D), obesity and hypertension in a Black South African population.This cross-sectional study involved 560 Black South Africans aged 25 to 74 years. Participant demographic and lifestyle characteristics were self-reported; anthropometry and blood pressures (BP) measured; oral glucose tolerance tests used to diagnose T2D; and SNPs genotyped by polymerase chain reaction. The Benjamini-Hochberg method was used to control for multiple hypothesis testing, using a significance threshold of 0.12.Using the median test, systolic BP was significantly higher in carriers of the G/G genotype of rs229616 within the MC4R gene compared to carriers of the G/A genotype (p = 0.006, p-FDR = 0.030). In the same gene, logistic regression analysis showed that carriers of the minor C/C genotype of the rs17782313 SNP had a significantly higher risk of hypertension (OR = 1.37, p = 0.023, p-FDR = 0.115) in the unadjusted model. However, the significance was attenuated after adjusting for age, gender and BMI (OR = 1.32, p = 0.084, p-FDR = 0.140). Moreover, carriers of the minor T/T genotype of the TCF7L2 rs7903146 SNP had a lower risk of T2D in the crude model (OR = 0.66, p = 0.043, p-FDR = 0.108) and after adjustment for age, gender and BMI (OR = 0.63, p = 0.041, p-FDR = 0.108). These findings remained significant after correction for multiple comparisons.TCF7L2-rs7903146 (C/C genotype) and MC4R-17,782,313 (C/C genotype) SNPs are potential genetic risk factors for T2D and hypertension, respectively, in the Black South African population. Replicating these findings and exploring the role played by these genetic variants in downstream molecular pathways could aid in risk stratification and facilitate personalized approaches to healthcare delivery.© 2026. The Author(s).
The pathophysiology of melanoma is considerably complex. Wnt signaling via the β-catenin / transcription factor 7-like 2 / lymphoid enhancer-binding factor 1 (LEF1) complex, microphthalmia-associated transcription factor, tyrosinase-related protein-2, tyrosinase, and cyclin-dependent kinase 2 are reported to activate the transcriptional gene expression associated with pigmentation and the differentiation and proliferation of melanocytes and malignant melanoma cells. Cinobufagin, a common active ingredient in traditional Chinese medicine, has been approved in China as a chemotherapeutic agent for the treatment of liver and prostate cancer. The primary aim of this study is to evaluate the effects of cinobufagin, paclitaxel, and their combination (cinobufagin/paclitaxel) on melanoma cells, both individually and in combination, in the G361 melanoma cell line.Within the study, half maximal inhibitory concentration doses were determined based on the [3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide] assay, caspase-3 levels were measured using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay method, and mRNA expression levels were analyzed using RT-PCR.The use of cinobufagin/paclitaxel was found to increase caspase-3 levels by more than the use of cinobufagin alone; moreover, cinobufagin treatment decreased the expression of the β-catenin, c-myc, and cyclin D1 genes, whereas cinobufagin/paclitaxel was found to increase the mRNA expression of all genes considered (Bax, caspase-3, Bcl2, β-catenin, c-myc, Wnt, and cyclin D1).Cinobufagin can therefore be considered a promising natural pharmaceutical agent for the targeted treatment of cancers with high levels of LEF1.
Pulmonary hypertension (PH) is a fatal disease characterized by pulmonary vascular remodeling, primarily driven by excessive proliferation of pulmonary arterial smooth muscle cells (PASMCs). Although noncoding RNAs, such as circular RNAs, have been implicated in PH, the role of tRNA-derived small RNA remains poorly understood. Among them, i-tRF (internal tRNA-derived fragment)-Asp represents a novel tRNA-derived small RNA whose function in hypoxic PH is unknown. This study aims to investigate whether i-tRF-Asp contributes to PASMC proliferation and vascular remodeling in hypoxic PH.To elucidate the functional role of i-tRF-Asp, loss-of-function experiments were conducted in vitro using hypoxic mouse PASMCs, alongside in vivo studies using both SuHx (Sugen5416+hypoxia) induced PH models in both adult male C57BL/6 mice and Sprague-Dawley rats. These models employed antisense oligonucleotide inhibitors and adeno-associated virus-mediated silencing. The underlying mechanisms were further explored via RNA immunoprecipitation, liquid-liquid phase separation assays, cell proliferation assessment, Western blot, alternative splicing profiling, and molecular dynamics simulation.Inhibition of i-tRF-Asp ameliorated hypoxia-induced pulmonary vascular remodeling, primarily through suppressing excessive proliferation of mouse PASMCs. Further analysis indicated that i-tRF-Asp facilitates liquid-liquid phase separation of hnRNPU (heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein U). This process mediates selective recruitment of Tcf7l2 (transcription factor 7-like 2) pre-mRNA and promotes alternative splicing, resulting in a pro-proliferative Tcf7l2 transcript variant that drives mouse PASMC proliferation. Furthermore, we have identified that the endonuclease ERN1 (endoribonuclease IRE1) can upregulate the expression of i-tRF-Asp.The endoribonuclease ERN1 upregulates the expression of i-tRF-Asp, which in turn facilitates mouse PASMC proliferation and pulmonary vascular remodeling. This process is driven by hnRNPU liquid-liquid phase separation-dependent alternative splicing of the long Tcf7l2 transcript isoform.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42198465 is a review article
Intervertebral disc (IVD) degeneration (IDD) involves nucleus pulposus (NP) cell death, but its mechanisms are unclear. PANoptosis is a novel cell death pattern whose role in IDD remains elusive. This study investigates whether PANoptosis contributes to mechanical overloading-induced NP cell death and explores its underlying mechanisms. We evaluated PANoptosis in NP cells from human degenerated IVD tissues, aged mice, lumbar spine instability model, and an in vitro mechanical compression system. Results indicated that PANoptosis-related proteins were upregulated in NP cells from degenerated IVDs, as well as in those subjected to mechanical overloading both in vivo and in vitro. To confirm its functional role, we inhibited PANoptosis by interfering PANoptosis sensor Z-DNA-binding protein 1 (ZBP1). Results showed that ZBP1 inhibition partially reversed this upregulation, reduced NP cell death, and alleviated IDD. Mechanistically, we found Kindlin-2 loss promoted PANoptosis in NP cells by suppressing forkhead box P1 (FOXP1) SUMOylation and increasing ZBP1 promoter activity. Furthermore, mechanical overloading downregulated Kindlin-2 by impairing ciliary intraflagellar transport 88 (IFT88), thereby exacerbating PANoptosis and IDD. We show that ciliary IFT88 influences Kindlin-2, which protects NP cells from mechanical overloading-induced PANoptosis by enhancing FOXP1 SUMOylation. This pathway may offer a new therapeutic target for IDD.© The author(s).
Spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 (SCA1) is a neurodegenerative disease marked by progressive motor deficits and Purkinje cell (PC) degeneration, driven by polyglutamine expansion in ataxin-1. While oligodendroglial dysfunction precedes PC loss, its direct contribution toward SCA1 pathogenesis remains unclear. Here, using an oligodendroglia-specific SCA1 conditional knockin mouse model, we demonstrate that mutant ataxin-1 in oligodendrocytes is sufficient to drive aspects of SCA1-related pathology, including dysregulated myelination, PC axonal shrinkage, and torpedo formation, ultimately impairing motor coordination. Transcriptomic analysis uncovers cerebellar oligodendrocyte subtypes with distinct gene expression signatures and aberrant abundance that contribute to demyelination. This, compounded by a progressive decline in the neuroprotective functions of a cerebellum-specific oligodendrocyte subtype, establishes a critical link between demyelination, axo-myelinic dysfunction, and axonal pathology in SCA1. Upstream transcriptional regulator analysis in oligodendroglia identifies transcription factor 7-like 2 (TCF7L2) and huntingtin (HTT) as key mediators of oligodendroglial dysfunction in SCA1, suggesting shared pathogenic mechanisms with other polyglutamine diseases. Collectively, these findings establish oligodendroglia as key mediators of SCA1 pathogenesis and underscore their critical role in preserving PC axonal integrity.
Mechanical stimuli are crucial in regulating normal osteoblast function to maintain bone homeostasis. Decreased osteoblast proliferation is one of the main causes of osteoporosis induced by mechanical unloading. However, the underlying mechanism remains unclear. Cyclin-dependent kinase 12 (CDK12), a member of the CDK family, plays a key role in regulating cell proliferation. In this study, we aimed to investigate the role of CDK12 in osteoblast proliferation, and its function and underlying mechanism in decreased osteoblast proliferation caused by mechanical unloading.CDK12 small interfering RNA (siRNA) and CDK12 plasmid were used to knock down and overexpress CDK12 in osteoblasts, respectively. 5-ethynyl-2´-deoxyuridine (EdU) staining, cell counting, and flow cytometry were adopted to detect the effects of mechanical unloading on osteoblast cell proliferation and cell cycle. Immunofluorescence staining was performed to detect the cellular localization of CDK12. Real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and western blot were performed to analyze the expression of CDK12 and downstream molecules.Mechanical unloading significantly reduced the EdU-positive cell ratio and the total cell number of primary osteoblasts, accompanied by a marked decrease of S phase cell percentage. Meanwhile, the expression of CDK12, a key regulator for cell cycle and cell proliferation, was significantly downregulated by mechanical unloading. Loss and gain of function studies revealed that CDK12 knockdown inhibits osteoblast proliferation and S phase cell cycle progression, while CDK12 overexpression increases these parameters. Moreover, mechanical unloading altered the subcellular localization of CDK12, reduced the phosphorylation level of RNA polymerase II (RNAPII), and downregulated the expression of key DNA replication genes, including CDC6, CDT1, ORC2, and TOPBP1. Similar results were obtained in CDK12 knockdown osteoblasts. Furthermore, CDK12 overexpression rescued the decreased osteoblast proliferation and reduced S phase percentage induced by mechanical unloading.The present study demonstrates CDK12 as a critical regulator of osteoblast proliferation under mechanical unloading conditions. Mechanistically, mechanical unloading suppresses osteoblast proliferation by downregulating CDK12 expression, which results in decreased RNAPII phosphorylation and reduced expression of downstream core DNA replication genes. These findings provide a novel mechanistic insight into the inhibitory effects of mechanical unloading on osteoblast proliferation, and reveals CDK12 as a novel potential target for treating disuse osteoporosis.© 2026 Hu et al.
Cyclin-dependent kinase 12 (CDK12) is a transcription-associated kinase critical in regulating transcription, mRNA splicing, translation, cell cycle progression, and DNA damage repair (DDR) pathways. CDK12 is a notable therapeutic target in cancer owing to its regulation of key DDR genes, including BRCA1 and BRCA2, which are essential in maintaining genomic stability. In this study, we describe the lead optimization of a 1,4-trans-cyclohexane-based series, resulting in the discovery of a novel and highly selective CDK12 inhibitor, CTX-439. CTX-439 demonstrated robust CDK12 inhibition, sustained potency against its homologous protein CDK13, and outstanding selectivity over other CDKs and the broader kinome. A comprehensive in vitro evaluation, including ADME-Tox profiling, identified CTX-439 as a promising drug candidate for targeted cancer therapy.© 2026 American Chemical Society.
The identification of novel molecular drivers and the development of new state-of-the-art therapies are critical challenges in ovarian cancer (OC) treatment. Cyclin-dependent kinase 12 (CDK12) is a promising target, as it's functional activity promotes genomic stability. Here, we examined the anticancer efficacy of the dual CDK12/13-inhibitor SR-4835 in platinum-sensitive and -resistant OC cell lines, as well as its potential as a drug partner for platinum or olaparib combination therapy. SR-4835 exhibited potent anti-proliferative effects on most OC cell lines with IC50 values within the nanomolar range. A tendency for increased sensitivity of the cisplatin-resistant compared to their sensitive, parental cell lines was observed. Transcriptome analyses indicated gross changes in gene expression in numerous signaling pathways by SR-4835. Gene downregulation was in part due to alternative exon usage, which correlated with the number of intronic polyadenylation sites per gene and gene length. Furthermore, SR-4835 lead to the downregulation of key homologous recombination pathway genes rendering a BRCAness phenotype. However, the combination of SR-4835 with cisplatin or olaparib primarily exhibited an additive, not synergistic, effect. In summary, the present findings indicate that CDK12/13 inhibitor SR-4835 has potent anti-cancer effects accompanied by a BRCAness induction, but fails to achieve synergistic effects with cisplatin or olaparib in OC cells.© 2026. The Author(s).
Inactivation of cyclin-dependent kinase 12 (CDK12) characterizes a subset of prostate cancers but it is not understood how cells adapt to declining activity of this major transcription elongation kinase. To probe this response, we developed a cell line resistant to an inhibitor targeting CDK12 and its paralog, CDK13. CDK13 can compensate for the loss of CDK12, which is why we used the dual inhibitor THZ531. Targeted drug screening of the parental and resistant cell lines revealed cross-resistance to other transcriptional kinases but no clear acquired point of vulnerability. Using genome-wide mapping of mRNA-stabilization based on metabolic labelling of RNA, we report selective mRNA stabilization of factors promoting oxidative phosphorylation in the resistant cells. We go on to show that loss of CDK12 activity enhances ATP production both in cell line models and in patient tumours. Finally, we show that dual inhibition of CDK12/13 results in excessive phosphorylation of the DNA damage H2AX in prostate cancer cells but not in our CDK12/13 inhibitor-resistant model system. In brief, we propose that inactivation of CDK12 rewires cellular energy metabolism to suppress DNA damage.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Downregulation of DNA damage repair genes has attracted considerable research attention recently due to the success of poly-(ADP-ribose) polymerase inhibitors. Identification of additional targets and therapies that exploit synthetic lethality could greatly benefit cancer patients. Cyclin-dependent kinases 12 and 13 (CDK12 and CDK13), which regulate RNA polymerase II (RNA Pol II) and, therefore, gene transcription, represented promising therapeutic targets. Although several inhibitors for these kinases have been disclosed, few have progressed to the clinic. Most existing inhibitors utilize a covalent warhead to obtain potency and selectivity. In this study, we reported the design and development of a series of highly selective noncovalent inhibitors targeting CDK12 and 13. This campaign led to the identification of a lead compound exhibiting outstanding potency and favorable absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion profiles, as well as favorable pharmacokinetic properties, thereby demonstrating significant potential for therapeutic applications.© 2026 American Chemical Society.
Uterine serous carcinoma (USC) is an aggressive p53-mutated endometrial carcinoma that exhibits gene mutations in homologous recombination (HR) pathways, similar to high-grade serous ovarian carcinoma (HGSOC). However, the therapeutic effect of PARP inhibitors on USC is limited. This study investigated cyclin-dependent kinase 12 (CDK12), a transcriptional regulator of HR genes, and evaluated the efficacy of a novel CDK12 inhibitor, CTX-439, combined with a PARP inhibitor, olaparib, in patient-derived xenograft (PDX) models of USC. We evaluated the homologous recombination deficiency (HRD) scores, genetic alterations, and HR-related gene abnormalities, including CDK12 in USC, other histopathological types of uterine endometrial carcinoma, and HGSOC using the Cancer Genome Atlas dataset. We also assessed CDK12 function and CTX-439 efficacy in USC utilizing USC cell lines and PDX models. USC exhibited a higher HRD score than other histological subtypes of uterine endometrial carcinoma but lower than HGSOC. CDK12 amplification occurred more frequently in USC than in HGSOC but was not associated with HRD scores. Tumors with CDK12 amplification demonstrated high CDK12 expression, which correlated with poor prognosis in USC. The CDK12 inhibitor CTX-439 suppressed HR-related gene expression, including BRCA1 and BRCA2, induced apoptosis and DNA damage, and inhibited tumor growth in USC PDX models with high CDK12 expression. Furthermore, CDK12 inhibition enhanced tumor sensitivity to the PARP inhibitor, olaparib in USC PDX models. This study indicates that CDK12 is a potential therapeutic target for enhancing the antitumor effects of PARP inhibitors in patients with USC.
Cyclin-dependent kinase 12 (CDK12), a key regulator of cell-cycle-linked transcriptional programs, has gained increasing attention as a driver of tumorigenesis and a promising therapeutic vulnerability across diverse malignancies. In this study, we combined pan-cancer multi-omics profiling with a computational screen of a Vietnamese medicinal herbs compound library to identify candidate inhibitors targeting both wild-type CDK12 and its drug-resistant C1039F variant. Transcriptomic and proteomic analyses of TCGA and GTEx datasets revealed significant CDK12 overexpression in 14 tumor types compared with matched normal tissues. Overall survival comparisons further indicated that elevated CDK12 expression predicts markedly poorer outcomes in different renal cancer types and glioma, whereas genomic profiling identified ovarian cancer as the malignancy with the highest frequency of CDK12 alterations. Immune deconvolution analyses showed strong associations between CDK12 expression and infiltration by endothelial cells and natural killer T cells, suggesting a link between CDK12 dysregulation and tumor immune evasion. Complementing the multi-omics investigation, molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulations, and MM/PBSA free-energy calculations were conducted to evaluate the binding profiles of natural compounds derived from Vietnamese medicinal plants against both CDK12 variants. Several phytochemicals including 2,3-Diepicastasterone from Phaseolus vulgaris (- 131.038 ± 23.572 kcal/mol), as well as compounds from Eurycoma longifolia and Oryza sativa-exhibited highly favorable binding affinities and stable interaction dynamics, highlighting them as promising scaffolds for CDK12 inhibitor development. Collectively, our findings establish CDK12 as a robust biomarker for cancer diagnosis, prognosis, and immune modulation, while highlighting natural-product-based scaffolds as promising leads for next-generation CDK12 inhibitors targeting both wild-type and resistant variants, potentially synergizing with emerging immuno-oncology strategies.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
SLC6A15, (sodium-dependent neutral amino acid transporter B(0)AT2), plays a crucial role in amino acid homeostasis and neuronal signaling, and it has been genetically and transcriptionally associated with major depressive disorder (MDD). However, the post-translational regulation of SLC6A15, particularly through phosphorylation, remains poorly understood. To address this knowledge gap, we report here curation of 3825 global phosphoproteomic datasets and layered statistical and bioinformatic analyses to uncover predominant phosphosites, co-phospho-regulated proteins, upstream kinases, and binary interactors of SLC6A15. Importantly, after stringent filtration, three sites, pS701, pS699, and pS687, were identified as the predominant sites of phosphorylation. Predicted upstream kinases included mitogen-activated protein kinase 3 (MAPK3) and cyclin-dependent kinase 12 (CDK12), suggesting regulatory control at these phosphorylation sites. Binary interactors such as tyrosine-protein kinase Lyn, epidermal growth factor receptor, and calnexin were found to have direct associations with stress-related pathways, indicating potential roles in stress-responsive signaling mechanisms. Pathway enrichment analysis of the high-confidence phosphosites in other proteins revealed significant enrichment of the ErbB signaling pathway, which is frequently dysregulated in MDD. Collectively, this study presents a comprehensive co-phospho-regulation-based catalog of SLC6A15, systematically mapping its key phosphorylation sites, regulatory kinases, and interaction partners. Identification of upstream kinases such as MAPK3 and CDK12 and enrichment of the ErbB signaling axis indicate a potential role of SLC6A15 in synaptic plasticity, neuronal signaling, and stress response mechanisms associated with depression. These findings uncover novel protein-protein relationships and phosphorylation-driven interactions, offering new insights into transporter regulation in neuropsychiatric disorders and potential therapeutic targets for MDD.
Preeclampsia is a severe hypertensive disorder of pregnancy associated with low SIRT1 (sirtuin 1) levels in trophoblasts. Single-cell sequencing showed abnormal activation of trophoblast Rarres2 (retinoic acid receptor responder 2) and macrophage Cmklr1 (chemokine-like receptor 1) at the maternal-fetal interface in systemic Sirt1 heterozygous knockout mice. This study investigated how low SIRT1 in trophoblasts increases RARRES2 expression, affecting macrophage polarization and preeclampsia pathogenesis.We conducted coculture experiments to analyze trophoblast RARRES2 and macrophage CMKLR1 interactions, performed luciferase and chromatin immunoprecipitation assays to validate transcription factors for RARRES2 in trophoblasts, and utilized mass spectrometry and immunoprecipitation to identify transcriptional coregulators. cKO (trophoblast-specific Sirt1 knockout) mice were generated and treated with Rarres2 knockout or progesterone supplementation to validate the role of the SIRT1/RARRES2 axis in preeclampsia pathogenesis and prevention by progesterone. Finally, we measured RARRES2 and SIRT1 levels in the plasma of patients with preeclampsia.Low-SIRT1 expression in trophoblasts promoted M1-type macrophage polarization and inhibited trophoblast invasion, mediated by the RARRES2-CMKLR1 interaction. SIRT1 regulated RARRES2 expression in trophoblasts by recruiting NCOR2 (nuclear receptor corepressor 2). cKO mice showed preeclampsia-like symptoms and RARRES2-CMKLR1 activation at the maternal-fetal interface, which were reversed by Rarres2 knockout or progesterone supplementation. Notably, RARRES2 levels were higher and were a risk factor, whereas SIRT1 levels were lower and were a protective factor for preeclampsia in early pregnancy.This study highlights SIRT1's potential role in regulating abnormal trophoblast-macrophage interactions at the maternal-fetal interface in preeclampsia and offers a new strategy for its early prediction and prevention.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42252654 is a review article
The response of lung cancer to chemoradiotherapy (CRT) is orchestrated by the dynamic interplay between immune microenvironment remodeling and metabolic reprogramming. However, robust biomarkers for predicting patient prognosis remain elusive. In this study, we performed proteomics profiling of 22 pairs of lung cancer specimens and compared CRT-sensitive versus CRT-resistant subtypes. Functional analysis revealed distinct pathway enrichment between the two groups: the CRT-sensitive subtype was predominantly associated with fatty acid oxidation and energy metabolism, whereas the CRT-resistant subtype exhibited elevated immune activation, inflammatory responses, and stress-related signaling. Based on these findings, we developed a LASSO regression-based predictive model that pinpointed a protein signature encompassing IKBKB interacting protein (IKBIP) and citron rho-interacting serine/threonine kinase (CIT) as optimal predictors of CRT efficacy. Subsequent survival analysis further confirmed the prognostic relevance of these proteins. Collectively, our findings emphasize the critical role of the metabolic-immune axis in modulating CRT sensitivity and provide mechanistic insights into the molecular underpinnings of treatment response, thereby offering a clinically translatable tool for guiding precision therapeutic strategies in lung cancer.
Cigarette smoke (CS) exposure impairs mitochondrial function and promotes senescence in airway epithelial cells, contributing to the pathogenesis of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). However, the molecular mechanisms linking mitophagy dysfunction to cellular senescence remain poorly understood. Parkin (PRKN) is a key regulator of mitophagy, but whether PRKN Ser131 phosphorylation contributes to CS-induced impairment of mitophagy and senescence remains unclear. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate the role of PRKN Ser131 phosphorylation in CS-induced impairment of mitophagy and epithelial cell senescence, and to explore the underlying mechanism.This laboratory-based experimental study utilized human bronchial epithelial BEAS-2B cells exposed to cigarette smoke extract (CSE) and a mouse model of CS-induced emphysema. Molecular interventions included mutation of PRKN at Ser131, and knockdown of mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 3 (MKK3) to modulate the downstream p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38 MAPK) pathway. Mitophagy activity, mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS), and senescence markers were evaluated.Exposure to cigarette smoke extract (CSE) increased MKK3 expression and activated the p38 MAPK pathway, leading to phosphorylation of PRKN at Ser131. This phosphorylation was accompanied by reduced mitophagy-related readouts and increased mitochondrial ROS. Both MKK3 knockdown and modulation of mitochondrial quality-control pathways were associated with improved mitophagy-related readouts and reduced senescence markers under CSE exposure. Moreover, cells expressing the PRKN S131A mutant exhibited significantly improved mitophagy flux, reduced ROS levels, and attenuated senescence compared to wild-type PRKN. In vivo, emphysematous lungs showed increased MKK3 and senescence markers alongside decreased PRKN and PTEN-induced kinase 1 (PINK1) expression.Our findings suggest that the MKK3/p38 MAPK-PRKN Ser131 axis contributes to CS-induced mitophagy impairment and epithelial senescence. Additional studies are needed to strengthen the evidence and evaluate the translational potential of targeting this pathway in COPD.© 2026 Hu Y. et al.
Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a leading cause of disability worldwide, and currently available antidepressants remain limited by delayed onset of action, incomplete response, and adverse effects. Ketamine is a rapid-acting antidepressant, whereas xanomeline, an M1/M4 muscarinic receptor agonist, may represent a mechanistically distinct non-monoaminergic strategy. However, the molecular basis by which xanomeline may influence depression-related pathways, and its relationship to ketamine, remain unclear. We used network pharmacology and molecular docking to compare the shared and distinct molecular mechanisms of xanomeline and ketamine in MDD. Potential drug targets were collected from public databases and intersected with MDD-related targets. Protein-protein interaction analysis was performed to identify hub genes, followed by Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment analyses. Drug-pathway-target-disease networks were constructed, and shared core targets were further evaluated by molecular docking. We identified 368 overlapping targets for xanomeline-MDD and 714 for ketamine-MDD. Three KEGG pathways were shared between the two networks: EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor resistance, Ras signaling, and Rap1 signaling. EGFR, insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (IGF1R), and SRC proto-oncogene, non-receptor tyrosine kinase, emerged as common core targets. Xanomeline was more strongly associated with receptor tyrosine kinase and PI3K/AKT-related signaling, whereas ketamine was more strongly linked to synaptic transmission, NMDA receptor-related functions, and glutamatergic signaling. Molecular docking supported structurally plausible binding of both drugs to EGFR, IGF1R, and SRC. These findings suggest partial convergence on downstream plasticity-related signaling nodes despite distinct upstream mechanisms and warrant further experimental investigation. However, the results should be interpreted as hypothesis-generating rather than as evidence of shared functional target engagement.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Background: Neurodevelopmental disorders span a wide spectrum of deficits, often with a known or suspected genetic basis. While some genetic determinants may indicate treatment with selective compounds, more often both the molecular cause of the disorder and the mechanism of action for the therapeutic compound are more ambiguously matched. Due to the polypharmacological nature of most neuroactive compounds, measuring gene expression changes following drug perturbation could be an effective strategy to gain insight into shared therapeutic action downstream of diversity in receptor interaction. High-throughput drug discovery platforms have effectively measured changes in gene expression following drug perturbation in cell cultures, but unfortunately, these platforms often lack specificity for neuroactive compounds, fail to capture the developmental influence of cell-cell interactions, and do not accurately model drug metabolism in an intact system. Methods: In this study, we present a high-throughput, low-cost and cell-type-specific approach for capturing transcriptional changes in neural cell populations following neuroactive compound exposure through the combined use of transgenic zebrafish, cell sorting, and bulk RNA-seq. Results: Our system captures unique transcriptional profiles between neuronal and non-neuronal cell populations and demonstrates specific drug responsiveness within our neuronal cell population. We assessed two known positive allosteric modulators (PAMs) of γ-Aminobutyric acid sub-type A receptors (GABAAR), ivermectin and propofol, as a case study to explore shared pathway and gene expression changes following drug exposure; these chemically distinct agents share a mechanistic signature that dampens the neuronal hyperexcitability characteristic of a broad spectrum of neurodevelopmental disorders. Two shared downregulated genes reflect a core expression module for modulating GABAergic tone: SRC proto-oncogene, non-receptor tyrosine kinase (SRC), and Glutamate decarboxylase 2 (GAD2). Conclusions: We provide this methodology and analysis as a framework for exploring shared changes in gene expression following neuroactive compound exposure in vivo, leading to a more complete and nuanced understanding of therapeutic effects on neurons that can aid in drug repurposing efforts for neurodevelopmental disorders.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41883454 is a review article
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a widespread chronic joint disorder characterized by progressive cartilage degeneration, leading to substantial impairment in quality of life for millions of individuals globally. Cellular senescence has been increasingly recognized as a central contributor to OA pathogenesis, with senescent chondrocytes exhibiting a senescence-associated secretory phenotype that promotes tissue destruction. Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) are known to play essential roles in maintaining cartilage homeostasis; however, their regulatory functions in OA remain poorly defined. This study aimed to elucidate the expression patterns, biological roles, and molecular mechanisms of lncRNA HOXC-AS3 in chondrocyte physiology and OA development.HOXC-AS3 expression was markedly reduced in OA-affected cartilage tissues and in human chondrocytes exposed to IL-1β. Functional analyses revealed that HOXC-AS3 knockdown suppressed chondrocyte proliferation, accelerated cellular senescence, and disrupted extracellular matrix homeostasis, whereas its overexpression ameliorated IL-1β-induced chondrocyte dysfunction. Mechanistically, HOXC-AS3 operates through two distinct pathways: acting as a competing endogenous RNA by directly sequestering miR-615-3p, and physically interacting with ribosome-binding protein 1 (RRBP1). Both pathways converge to regulate the expression of citron rho-interacting serine/threonine kinase (CIT), a critical modulator of the cell cycle. Notably, CIT knockdown mimicked the phenotypic effects of HOXC-AS3 deficiency, while HOXC-AS3 overexpression preserved chondrocyte function by sustaining CIT expression under inflammatory stress.This study establishes lncRNA HOXC-AS3 as a key regulator of chondrocyte homeostasis that mitigates OA progression via dual mechanisms-miR-615-3p sponging and RRBP1 interaction-both of which maintain CIT expression. These findings advance the understanding of the molecular networks underlying OA pathogenesis and underscore HOXC-AS3 and its downstream signaling axis as promising therapeutic targets for OA intervention.© 2026. The Author(s).
Citron Rho-interacting serine/threonine kinase (CIT) is a major cytosolic protein kinase essential for midbody organisation, abscission, and cytokinesis. Dysregulation and mutations in CIT are associated with multiple cancers and neurodevelopmental disorders, including microcephaly. Although global phosphoproteomic studies have identified more than 50 phosphosites in CIT, their functional relevance and the kinases regulating them remain largely unexplored.To systematically investigate the phosphoregulation of CIT, we curated and integrated global phosphoproteomic datasets, along with their associated experimental conditions, to comprehensively catalogue phosphorylation events reported for CIT. To assess the functional significance of CIT, we examined proteins that were differentially co-regulated with its predominant phosphosite.Serine 440 (S440), located outside the kinase domain (representing over 55% of CIT-associated phospho-signalling events across 100 experimental conditions, including Enterovirus A71 infection, metformin, and interleukin-33), was identified as its predominant phosphosite. Motif analysis revealed the presence of a D(S/T)P/P(S/T)D motif recognised by the CIT kinase domain, suggesting S440 as a predicted autophosphorylation site. Co-phosphoregulation analysis identified 136 interacting proteins and 82 predicted substrates that were positively co-regulated with CIT_S440. The resulting phospho-regulatory network comprised essential cell cycle and DNA repair regulators, including MDC1 and TRIP12. Significantly, over 120 co-regulated phosphosites were functionally linked to DNA repair and cell cycle regulation. Aberrant phosphorylation of CIT_S440 observed across cancers of the breast, colon, and bladder suggests CIT_S440 as a potential onco-phosphosite critically involved in cellular checkpoint signalling.These findings suggest that CIT_S440 functions as a promising therapeutic target, and the phosphosite-centric regulatory network derived in this study could serve as a platform to evaluate its phosphosite-specific therapeutic interventions.Copyright © 2026 Thomas, Lubaba, Ahmed, Mahin, John, Gopalakrishnan, Subair, Shivamurthy, Raju and Soman.
The aim of the study was to develop a non-human primate model of metabolic dysfunction in Macaca fascicularis using chronic high-fat diet (HFD) to mimic clinical disease progression.Thirty-five male macaques aged 10-15 years underwent an 18-month HFD intervention. Physiological parameters (BMI, BP, hematology), liver fat fraction (evaluated by ultrasound/MRI), cardiac function (assessed by echocardiography), and histopathology (using liver biopsy) were measured before and after the intervention. Serum proteomics with KEGG/STRING analyses identified molecular mechanisms.Within 6 months, HFD induced dyslipidemia (elevated TG, TCHO, HDL-C, LDL-C). After 18 months, metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH) was confirmed by histopathology in 57.14% (16/28) of macaques, diabetes (elevated FPG/HbA1c) in 17.86% (5/28), and myocardial hypertrophy (elevated LVMass/LAD) in 46.43% (13/28). Proteomics identified Bile acid-CoA: amino acid N-acyltransferase (BAAT) as a MASH hallmark protein, the level of which was inversely correlated with the degree of fibrosis. For diabetes, citrate synthase (CS) and malate dehydrogenase 1 (MDH1) impaired glucose oxidation via the TCA cycle, while hexose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (H6PD) disrupted gluconeogenesis. Myocardial hypertrophy was associated with the downregulation of SRC proto-oncogene, non-receptor tyrosine kinase (SRC), mitogen-activated protein kinase 14 (MAPK14), emerin (EMD), and integrin subunit beta 1 (ITGB1).An 18-month HFD successfully established a translational M. fascicularis model replicating key metabolic disorders (MASH, diabetes, cardiac hypertrophy). BAAT, CS/MDH1/H6PD, and SRC/MAPK14/EMD/ITGB1 were identified as mechanistic biomarkers for these conditions.© 2026 The Author(s). Animal Models and Experimental Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of The Chinese Association for Laboratory Animal Sciences.
Serine-threonine kinase receptor-associated protein (STRAP) functions as a negative regulator of apoptosis by inhibiting apoptosis signal-regulating kinase 1 (ASK1) activity. STRAP is consistently present in the inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) interactome and contains two essential cysteine residues, Cys152 and Cys270, which are required for its interaction with ASK1. However, the role of the STRAP-iNOS interaction remains unclear. In this study, we found that STRAP specifically interacts with iNOS but not with endothelial NOS or neuronal NOS. iNOS mediates the S-nitrosylation of STRAP, which disrupts the STRAP-ASK1 interaction, increases ASK1 activity, activates the mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 3 (MKK3) and mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38) pathway, and enhances hydrogen peroxide-induced apoptosis. Notably, Cys152 and Cys270 are also the primary S-nitrosylation sites of STRAP. Mutation of these residues to serine (STRAP-C152/270S) abolishes the STRAP-ASK1 interaction, constitutively activates the ASK1-MKK3-p38 pathway, and increases apoptosis. Moreover, iNOS overexpression fails to promote hydrogen peroxide-induced apoptosis in STRAP-C152/270S-expressing cells, underscoring the essential role of STRAP S-nitrosylation in iNOS-mediated cell death. This study provides the first evidence that S-nitrosylation of STRAP is critical for the regulation of apoptosis and uncovers a novel cell survival mechanism mediated by the iNOS-SNO-STRAP-ASK1 signaling axis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
End user co-design in the personal digital health technology space is underdeveloped. Clinical uptake of personal digital health technologies has been poor, highlighting a need to cocreate solutions with end users.The study aimed to describe an "end user" co-design framework in the development of 5 prototype personal health apps for patients with different rare or complex diseases.A patient-led, user-centered, collaborative personal health app plus wearable plug-in co-design methodology was developed. Five prototype apps were developed for end users with long COVID-19, pancreatitis, primary ciliary dyskinesia, sarcoidosis, and valosin-containing protein disease by a multidisciplinary partnership including patients, app design and development experts, user experience experts, clinicians, and patient-driven organizations. Phase 1 involved a 6-month co-design process with 5 modules involving patient-driven organizations that included the codevelopment of specifications through group workshops and independent exercises that defined the goals, content, features, and user experience of each app. Phase 2 involved app build-out, internal alpha testing, and beta study preparations. Phase 3 involved a usability beta testing study in which end users used the app and associated wearable/smart devices (Oura ring, Lumia ear device, Empatica EmbracePlus, and MIR Spirobank Spirometer) for up to 5 months. Participant feedback was documented continuously and systematically, centering on the following themes: functionality, usability, harms, benefits, self-explorations, and beta testing study details related to retention and adherence.While unique app goals were codeveloped by each disease group, a central goal across groups was to develop a personal health app enabling users to track subjective, self-reported symptoms, objective measures of health, and unique modifiers of symptoms. A total of 239 end user participants participated in the beta testing pilot study. Enrollment and retention rates were high, ranging from 94% to 100% and 92.2% to 100%, respectively. All active participants gave some form of feedback: there were 257 unique participant suggestions of how to specifically modify or improve the study app experience. Participant feedback themes commonly centered around customization to reduce daily burden and improve personal tailoring of the app. Participants' desires surrounding symptom displays were heterogeneous.Personal health app co-design is rooted in a complex digital landscape that requires a significant amount of up-front effort and time. However, the up-front investment of time can result in rich and diverse end user feedback that could save time in the app development trajectory to implementation. This paper provides a co-design framework and the building blocks of 5 prototype personal health apps with publicly available open-source code on GitHub. These prototypes could be leveraged for improving understanding of, communicating symptoms of, and providing n-of-1 suggestions for rare or complex diseases, providing benefit to patient communities and individual patients.©Sarah Margaret Goodday, Emma Karlin, Madeleine Sorensen, Robin Yang, Paul Gordon, Caresse Opoku, Daniel Vuong, Jenee Wilson, Diane McKenzie, Jules Piccotti, Massimiliano Tavanti, Megan Fitzgerald, Yochai Re'em, Hannah Wei, Megan Golden, Daniel Morgan, Michele Manion, Ricardo Mosquera, Tricha Shivas, Elise Hoover, Allison Peck, Nathan Peck, Zollie Yavarow, Heidi Bjornson-Pennell, Andra Stratton, Samali Anova Sahoo, Douglas Arbittier, Elizabeth Arbittier, Renee Goff, Donna Harvin-Graham, Nancy Howard, Camille Knudsen, Mary Oldham, Stephen Friend. Originally published in JMIR mHealth and uHealth (https://mhealth.jmir.org), 20.07.2026.
Kyoto University Substance (KUS) 121 is a novel modulator of valosin-containing protein (VCP), with reported protective effects against ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury across various organs. This study evaluated the therapeutic effect of KUS121 on axial pattern flaps subjected to I/R injury.Axial pattern flaps nourished by superficial epigastric vessels were created in Sprague-Dawley rats, measuring 3 × 6 cm, and subjected to 8 hours of ischemia followed by reperfusion. KUS121 (100 mg/kg) was administered intraperitoneally 1 hour before flap elevation (KUS121-pretreated group) or immediately after reperfusion (KUS121-posttreated group), followed by once-daily administration from postoperative day 1 to 6. The control group received no KUS121. Flap survival was evaluated macroscopically on day 7. Histological and immunohistochemical evaluations were performed on day 3 in the KUS121-pretreated and control groups.Flap survival was significantly higher in the KUS121-pretreated group (80.7±7.8%) and KUS121-posttreated group (96.2±1.1%) than in the control group (48.8±5.3%; p=0.002 and p<0.001, respectively). On day 3, TdT-mediated dUTP-biotin nick-end labeling (TUNEL)-positive cells were significantly decreased in the KUS121-pretreated group compared to the control group in the distal flap region (2.3±0.5 vs. 7.7±1.1 cells/field; p<0.001) and in the middle region (2.3±0.4 vs. 9.0±1.1 cells/field; p<0.001). C/EBP homologous protein (CHOP)-positive cells were also significantly decreased in the KUS121-pretreated group compared with controls in the distal (9.0±1.5 vs. 21.4±1.8 cells/field; p<0.001) and middle (6.8±0.8 vs. 23.5±2.9 cells/field; p<0.001) regions.KUS121 markedly improves axial pattern flap survival by attenuating I/R-induced apoptosis and endoplasmic reticulum stress.Copyright © 2026 by the American Society of Plastic Surgeons.
Ivermectin suppresses tumor growth in various cancers. However, the mechanism of action in cancer remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the anticancer activity of ivermectin against gastric cancer cell lines and patient-derived organoids.Cell viability was measured in SNU719 and SNU620 gastric cancer cell lines. Protein expression levels of apoptosis-related markers were analyzed by western blotting and flow cytometry. The response of primary gastric cancer organoids (GC7 and GC15) to cisplatin and ivermectin treatments was evaluated. The organoids were stained with propidium iodide (PI) and calcein acetoxymethyl ester (AM). Messenger RNA (mRNA) expression levels were analyzed in both cell lines and organoids.Ivermectin suppressed SNU719 cell viability in a dose-dependent manner and enhanced the effect of cisplatin. However, ivermectin showed no significant effect on cell viability in SNU620 cells. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) revealed that ivermectin reduced connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) and yes1 associated transcriptional regulator (YAP1) expression. Western blot analysis confirmed that the protein expression levels of YAP1 and CTGF were reduced after 24 h of ivermectin treatment, while the suppression was attenuated at 48 h and showed a rebound tendency at 72 h. Flow cytometry analysis demonstrated that ivermectin increased the proportion of apoptotic cells in a dose-dependent manner at 24 h, whereas the proportion of apoptotic cells decreased after 48 h. In the GC7 organoid, cell death was 48.25% with ivermectin alone and increased to 82.48% with combination treatment. Similarly, in GC15 cells, cell death was 43.65% with ivermectin alone and increased to 65.77% with combination treatment. In GC7 organoids, ivermectin elevated the RNA expression of transcription factor binding to IGHM enhancer 3 (TFE3), lysosomal associated membrane protein 1 (LAMP1), and YAP1, whereas that of CTGF remained unchanged, with a smaller increase upon combination treatment. In GC15 organoids, ivermectin upregulated TFE3, LAMP1, CTGF, and YAP1 expression, which was further enhanced by combination treatment.Ivermectin showed anticancer effects in both two-dimensional (2D) and three-dimensional (3D) cultures, but differentially regulated anti-apoptotic genes, suppressing them in 2D cultures and increasing them in organoids. These findings suggest that ivermectin transiently suppresses YAP1-related signaling and induces apoptotic cell death at early treatment time points in gastric cancer cells. However, further research is required to assess its therapeutic potential and limitations.© AME Publishing Company.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42431020 is a review article
Mutations in the valosin-containing protein (VCP) gene lead to a hereditary type of inclusion body myositis (hIBM), in which sarcoplasmic and myonuclear inclusions with TAR DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43) pathology and mitochondrial abnormalities are observed in histological analysis. Pathophysiological conditions in the cell cause the protein quality control system to depend on the autophagy-lysosome pathway (ALP) for degradation of accumulated misfolded proteins and mitochondrial turnover. BCL2-associated athanogene 3 (BAG3) protein has a role in initiating the ALP. Our aim was to ameliorate disease processes resulting from mitochondrial abnormalities and misfolded protein aggregation by upregulating the ALP through overexpression of human BAG3 (hBAG3). The VCP-A232E mouse, a model for hIBM, received AAVrh74.tMCK.hBAG3 systemically at 3 months of age, and outcome measures, including functional, histological, and molecular studies, were assessed 9 months post-gene delivery. hBAG3 treatment improved treadmill running distance and rotarod duration, reduced the number of TDP-43-positive aggregates, and decreased the number of fibers showing abnormalities in mitochondrial enzyme histochemistry, compared with the untreated cohort. Moreover, hBAG3 gene therapy resulted in improvements in mitophagy and mitochondrial homeostasis observed as increased levels in mitophagy markers Parkin and Bnip3, mitochondria biogenesis marker Pgc1α and mitochondrial DNA-encoded subunits of complex IV, Cox1 and Cox3. In addition, the LC-II/I ratio increased, indicating increased autophagic flux. Our study presents evidence that the strategy of supporting the ALP system by overexpressing BAG3 has potential therapeutic use for myodegenerative conditions associated with abnormal protein aggregates and mitochondrial turnover.
Antibodies are known to prevent infection by binding to pathogens extracellularly and blocking their entry into cells. What is less well known is that a proportion of pathogens, called the persistent fraction, still succeed in entering cells despite the antibodies bound to their surface. Fortunately, all mammalian cells express a dedicated cytosolic antibody receptor called TRIM21 that intercepts these incoming antibody-bound pathogens as soon as they enter the cytosol. Once it has detected an infection event, TRIM21 uses its E3 ubiquitin ligase activity to target pathogens for degradation. Our early work showed that TRIM21-mediated neutralization was both a fast and efficient process, capable of causing the degradation of incoming viral particles within hours. What was less clear was how TRIM21 achieves this degradation. In a recent study, we reveal that TRIM21 mediates a system of selective autophagy to direct incoming pathogens into the lysosome.Abbreviations: TRIM21:Tripartite-motif containing protein 21; VCP: Valosin-Containing Protein. CRISPR: Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats; FACS: fluorescence activated cell sorting; GFP: green fluorescent protein; LC3: Microtubule-associated Protein 1 Light Chain 3; TBK1: TANK-binding kinase 1; FIP200: FAK family kinase-interacting protein of 200 kDa; ULK1: Unc-51-like autophagy activating kinase 1; PI3K: Phosphoinositide 3-Kinase; ATG: autophagy-related gene; TMEM41B: transmembrane protein 41B; VPS37A: Vacuolar Protein Sorting-Associated Protein 37A; RBSN: Rabenosyn-5; EPG5: Ectopic P-Granules 5 Autophagy Tethering Factor; NDP52: Nuclear Dot Protein 52; ADX: antibody-dependent xenophagy; p62/SQSTM1: Protein 62/ Sequestosome 1; LPS: Lipopolysaccharide.
Spermatogenesis is a conserved process across animals, involving the maintenance and differentiation of germ stem cells, haploid spermatid production via meiosis, and morphologically distinct sperm formation during spermiogenesis. We previously demonstrated that Slmap (Sarcolemma-associated protein) knockdown causes male sterility with no sperm in the seminal vesicle. Here, we show that Slmap knockdown in the early Drosophila melanogaster germline led to severe spermiogenesis defects, including aberrant paracrystalline material deposition in both mitochondrial derivatives, fusion of the two derivatives and of spermatids, loss of the central pair of axonemal microtubules, and axoneme clustering. These phenotypes were supported by transcriptomic data showing that the most prominently affected genes were those involved in cuticle development and plasma-membrane adhesion, including 20 cuticular protein genes. In parallel, we detected upregulation of individualization complex genes (chic, ctp, WASp, Lasp) and significant association with the oxidative phosphorylation pathway. Consistently, KEGG analysis and functional assays showed that the sustained damage activated germ cell apoptosis, as indicated by increased TUNEL signals, elevated Hid levels, and reduced Diap1 expression. Together, these findings place Slmap at the intersection of structural integrity and cell survival, linking its loss to both morphogenetic failure and activation of the Hid-Diap1 apoptotic pathway.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Notch signaling exerts context-dependent effects in cancer; however, the prognostic relevance of inherited variation in Notch-related genes in prostate cancer remains unclear. We investigated whether germline single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in Notch pathway genes are associated with clinical outcomes in men receiving androgen deprivation therapy (ADT).We genotyped 222 SNPs across 24 Notch pathway-related genes in 630 patients with advanced prostate cancer. Associations with cancer-specific survival (CSS) and overall survival (OS) were assessed using Cox proportional hazards models. Integrative bioinformatics analyses, including pooled transcriptomic dataset analysis, expression quantitative trait locus analysis, and pathway enrichment, were performed to assess functional relevance.Multiple SNPs were significantly associated with CSS and OS, with Yes1-associated transcriptional regulator (YAP1) rs1894116 showing the strongest prognostic signal. The minor G allele was associated with a 26% reduction in prostate cancer-specific mortality and a 22% reduction in all-cause mortality, independent of established clinical predictors. Functional annotation suggested that rs1894116 may be linked to increased YAP1 expression. Pooled transcriptomic analyses showed lower YAP1 expression in tumors than in normal tissue, while higher YAP1 expression correlated with more favorable outcomes. YAP1-correlated genes were enriched in the focal adhesion pathway, suggesting a tumor-suppressive YAP1-focal adhesion axis, particularly involving vinculin.Germline variation in the Notch-YAP axis, notably YAP1 rs1894116, predicts survival in patients with prostate cancer treated with ADT. Elevated YAP1 expression and coordinated activation of focal adhesion components may be associated with less aggressive disease. These findings provide mechanistic insight into Notch signaling in prostate cancer and highlight YAP1 and its variants as potential biomarkers for risk stratification and personalized therapy.Copyright © 2026 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
The immunoregulatory role of androgen receptor (AR) in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is still poorly understood. Herein, we found that inhibition of AR function could induce immunogenic cell death (ICD) and trigger endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress in vitro. Mechanistically, AR transcriptionally regulated the valosin-containing protein (VCP) expression via directly binding the promoter of VCP. AR inhibitor promoted dendritic cells (DCs) maturation in vitro and increased tumor-infiltrating DCs and CD8+ T cells in vivo. Combination of AR inhibitor with anti-PD-1 therapy remodels tumor immune microenvironment (TIME) and reduces tumor growth in mouse models of HCC. Addition of oncolytic virus further augments the therapeutic activity of the combination regimen. Our study shows the molecular mechanism for regulating VCP expression by AR and suggests that inhibition of AR has the potential to increase the efficacy of immunotherapy in HCC.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Exploring the mechanism of Ding-Zhi-Xiao-Wan(DZXW) on disorders of sphingolipid metabolism in Alzheimer's disease(AD) through network pharmacology, molecular docking and animal experiments. The chemical constituents of DZXW were obtained via the TCMSP, with target prediction conducted using the SwissTargetPrediction database; the GeneCards database was consulted to identify targets associated with AD and sphingolipid metabolism disorders. The intersecting targets from these three databases underwent GO and KEGG enrichment analyses. Cytoscape was employed to construct networks and screen core components and targets for molecular docking validation. Animal experiments employed AD model mice, utilising the water maze, ELISA, qPCR, LC-MS, and Western blot to evaluate the effects of DZXW on behavioural, oxidative stress, inflammatory, apoptotic, and sphingolipid metabolism-related indicators. Network pharmacology identified 51 common targets, with enrichment analysis indicating their involvement in multiple pathways including signal transduction, apoptosis, and the phosphatidylinositol 3kinase/protein kinase B(PI3K/Akt) pathway. Molecular docking revealed that multiple components within DZXW(such as cerevisterol and isorhamnetin) interacted with targets including caspase 3(CASP3), mitogen-activated protein kinase 14(MAPK14), estrogen receptor 1(ESR1), and silent information regulator factor 2 related enzyme 1(SIRT1), with SIRT1 being particularly crucial. Animal studies indicate that DZXW enhances learning and memory capacity in AD mice, reduces ceramide levels, and inhibits oxidation factors [4-hydroxynonenal(4-HNE), 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine(8-OHdG), nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate oxidase 4(NOX4)] and inflammatory factors [tumour necrosis factor-α(TNF-α), interleukin(IL)-1β], downregulates CASP3, MAPK14, sphingomyelin phosphodiesterase 1-3(SMPD1-3), B cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia/lymphoma-2(Bcl-2)-associated X protein(Bax), and increases IL-10, ESR1, mammalian target of rapamycin(mTOR), SIRT1, PI3K phosphorylation, Akt phosphorylation, and Bcl-2. In conclusion, DZXW may improve sphingolipid metabolism disorders in AD by inhibiting neuronal apoptosis and mitigating oxidative and inflammatory responses through the SIRT1/PI3K/Akt pathway.
Rosavin, a characteristic component of Rhodiola rosea L., exhibits various pharmacological activities, including antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effects. However, its role in alcoholic fatty liver disease (AFLD) remains unclear. The aim of this study was to investigate the protective effects of Rosavin against AFLD and to elucidate its underlying molecular mechanisms. In this study, Rosavin (25 μM and 50 μM for in vitro; 100 and 200 mg/kg/d via oral gavage for 10 days in vivo) was found to significantly mitigate alcohol-induced hepatic lipid accumulation, enhance antioxidant capacity, and alleviate liver injury, demonstrating its protective effects against AFLD both in vitro and in vivo. Through network pharmacology and molecular docking, six potential targets of Rosavin in AFLD were identified: nitric oxide synthase 3 (NOS3), proto-oncogene tyrosine-protein kinase Src (SRC), peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARG), mitogen-activated protein kinase 14 (MAPK14, also known as p38α), tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFα), and insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1). RT-qPCR and western blotting confirmed that Rosavin downregulates PPARG, TNFα, and IGF-1 expression and suppresses p38 phosphorylation. Rescue experiments further revealed that the suppressive effect of Rosavin on PPARG expression is reversed by the PPARG-specific agonist Mesalazine, which not only counteracts the protective effects of Rosavin but also reverses Rosavin-induced changes in MAPK14 and IGF-1 expression. In conclusion, Rosavin alleviates AFLD by downregulating PPARG and subsequently modulating the MAPK14 and IGF-1 signaling pathways. This study provides the first evidence that Rosavin protects against AFLD via PPARG, highlighting its potential as a therapeutic agent for AFLD treatment.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Herein, the phosphorylation profiles of shrimp muscle proteins after chilling storage at 4 °C for 120 h were investigated by phosphoproteomics. A total of 1255 differential abundance phosphopeptides (DAPPs), encompassing 2128 phosphorylated sites in 608 phosphoproteins, were identified, and they were dominantly enriched in ultrastructure assembly and myofilament contraction of sarcomere architecture, mTOR signaling, autophagy, and energy metabolism pathways. Meanwhile, the dephosphorylations of kinases, phosphatases, and assembly-regulating factors were revealed through SP and R/KxxS motifs. Moreover, the predominant nodes in the protein-protein interaction (PPI) network included mitogen-activated protein kinase 14, ubiquitin-ribosomal protein eL40 fusion protein, cAMP-dependent protein kinase catalytic subunit, heat shock protein, and myosin light chain kinase; meanwhile, these proteins significantly correlated with texture deterioration. Subsequently, the associated protein MAPK was verified by Western blotting. Collectively, this study deciphered the undefined mechanisms governing muscle softening of L. vannamei during refrigeration from a phosphoproteomics perspective and provided valuable targets against softening.
UV radiation (UVR), a known skin-stressor causing inflammation, aging and carcinogenesis, activates the arylhydrocarbon receptor (AhR) and downstream molecules which are crucially involved in photo-induced skin damage. In this study, the potent UV protector melatonin was investigated regarding UVR-mediated activation of AhR and downstream molecules including tumor suppressor p27, DNA double-strand break marker pH2AX, cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), mitogen-activated protein kinase-14 (MAPK14)/p38α, matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP2) and tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinase-1 (TIMP1). They were studied in ex vivo human full-thickness skin irradiated with UVA/B light (0, 300 mJ/cm2) 0 h and 24 h post UV exposure, comparing skin pre-incubated with or without melatonin. Protein expression was analysed by immunofluorescence staining, gene expression by real-time qPCR. UV exposure significantly up-regulated AhR (p < 0.0001), p27 (p < 0.001) and pH2AX (p < 0.0001) protein expression 0 h and 24 h post-irradiation which was significantly counteracted by melatonin (10-3 M) at both time points. Further, melatonin significantly reduced gene expression of AhR by 21.2% (p < 0.01), p27 by 24.8% (p < 0.01), COX-2 by 42.9% (p < 0.001), MAPK14 by 6.6% (p < 0.05) and MMP2 by 8.2% (p < 0.05), and caused a 10.2% (n.s.) TIMP1 reduction tendency 24 h post-irradiation. Thus, melatonin prevented UV-dependent expression of AhR and downstream regulators of AhR-mediated processes possibly related to inflammation, cellular aging and carcinogenesis on protein and gene level in UV-irradiated skin.© 2026 The Author(s). Experimental Dermatology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Naru-3 Wei Pill is a traditional Mongolian Medicine (TMM) that has anti-inflammatory, analgesic, and antibacterial effects. The present study aimed to demonstrate the anti-inflammatory and analgesic effect of Naru-3 Wei Pill, identify the core components and key targets and determine the pharmacological basis and mechanism of its blood-borne components.The anti-inflammatory and analgesic effects of Naru-3 pills were studied using hot plate, tail flick, and acetic acid-induced writhing tests. The blood-borne components of Naru-3 Wei Pill were identified using ultrahigh-performance liquid chromatography with Q-Exactive mass spectrometry (UHPLC-QE-MS), and their targets were screened using ChEMBL, TCMIO, GeneCards, and TTD databases. Network construction, Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analysis, and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was performed. Molecular dynamics methods, PCR and western blot, were used for verification of the results.Multiple pain models results indicate that Naru-3 pills exert anti-inflammatory and analgesic effects by modulating the PI3K signaling pathways and reducing inflammation factors (interleukin [IL]-6). A total of 35 blood-borne components were identified, acting on 291 targets involving 172 pathways. The core targets included AKT1, SRC, mitogen-activated protein kinase 14 (MAPK14), and ESR1. Molecular docking and dynamics simulations conformed strong binding affinity of the complexes formed between Rhein and AKT1, MAPK1, and SRC, and between genistein and SRC. PCR and western blot confirm the regulation of AKT/PI3K pathway of Naru-3 pills in animal models.Naru-3 pills significantly prolonged pain thresholds and reduced pain behaviors in mice. The study identified the material basis and mechanisms of its anti-inflammatory and analgesic effects, providing a foundation for further research.Copyright © 2026 Zhiqiang Han et al. Mediators of Inflammation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by abnormal amyloid-β protein (Aβ) deposition and tau protein hyperphosphorylation (p-tau), yet effective therapeutics remain scarce. Aloe emodin (AE) is a natural anthraquinone derivative that demonstrates neuroprotective effects. However, its specific therapeutic efficacy and functional mechanism are not fully elucidated. To address this, we investigated AE's mechanism in AD treatment using a network pharmacology approach. This analysis revealed that 83 common targets shared by AE and AD, enriched in processes such as apoptosis and protein phosphorylation. Mitogen-activated protein kinase 14 (MAPK14, also known as p38) was identified as a key target. KEGG pathway analysis further confirmed that the key mechanism of AE in AD treatment was mediated by the MAPK signaling pathway. Subsequent molecular docking and dynamics simulations demonstrated that the AE-p38 complex exhibited strong binding affinity and high stability. Building on these predictions, in vitro studies confirmed that AE enhanced cell viability and modulated the MAPK pathway. Critically, p38-specific inhibition experiments demonstrated that AE alleviated Aβ accumulation and tau hyperphosphorylation through inhibiting p38. In conclusion, this study demonstrates that AE protects against Aβ25-35-induced neurotoxicity in HT22 cells, primarily by inhibiting the p38 MAPK signaling pathway.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Excessive neutrophil activation and neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) release drive systemic inflammation and organ injury in sepsis, yet the upstream regulatory pathways remain incompletely defined. Here, we identify epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) as a critical neutrophil-intrinsic regulator of NETosis. EGFR expression was markedly elevated in neutrophils from patients with sepsis and correlated with disease severity. Neutrophil-specific EGFR deletion in mice improved survival after polymicrobial sepsis by reducing cytokine storm, tissue injury, and NET formation. Mechanistically, EGFR associated with CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein beta (CEBPβ) and recruited Mitogen-activated protein kinase 14 (MAPK14) to phosphorylate CEBPβ, promoting its nuclear localization and transcriptional activation of peptidoglycan recognition protein 1 (PGLYRP1). Elevated PGLYRP1, in turn, amplified NETs release via autocrine engagement of triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cell-1 (TREM-1), establishing a feed-forward inflammatory loop. Administration of recombinant PGLYRP1 or forced CEBPβ overexpression reversed the protection conferred by EGFR deficiency, confirming the centrality of this axis. These findings define an unrecognized EGFR-MAPK14-CEBPβ-PGLYRP1-TREM1 circuit that links receptor signaling to pathological NETosis and highlight a promising therapeutic target to attenuate neutrophil-driven immunopathology in sepsis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to ADMC Associazione Differenziamento e Morte Cellulare.
Morphogenesis is orchestrated through coordinated cell movements, including cell intercalation, which drives extensive changes in cell shape and position. This process requires precise regulation of interactions between adherens junctions (AJs) and the cortical actin network to generate the necessary mechanical forces. Although the Myosin molecular motor II plays a central role in generating morphogenetic forces, it is dispensable for processes such as dorsal branch morphogenesis in the Drosophila tracheal system, where coordinated cell migration and three-dimensional intercalation rely on alternative, yet poorly characterised mechanisms of force generation. Here, we show that Vinculin and Ajuba LIM protein, two key regulators of mechano-transduction and cell adhesion, do not localise to AJs of dorsal branches, while the cytoskeletal adaptor Girdin does. We demonstrate that the function of Girdin relies on AJ components α-Catenin and E-Cadherin, and is specifically required in tracheal cells to ensure the proper pace of cell intercalation. In addition, Girdin contributes to the actin network enrichment at AJs. Its role as an integral AJ component is further elucidated through the development of a novel genetic tool that enables in vivo cell-specific actin depolymerisation.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Background & objectivesPersistent infection with high-risk human papillomaviruses (HPV) is a major cause of cervical cancer, inducing the hypoxic response by stabilising hypoxia inducing factor-1 alpha (HIF-1α). Under normoxia, HIF-1α is regulated by tumour suppressors genes, LIMD1 and VHL. This study aimed to elucidate the functional roles of two microRNAs, miR-135b-5p and miR-21-5p, in regulating LIMD1/ VHL and their impact on various cellular phenotypes relevant to progression of cervical cancer. MethodsExpressions of miR-135b-5p, miR-21-5p, LIMD1, and VHL was assessed using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). Target validation was performed via dual-luciferase assays. Functional assays (proliferation, migration, invasion, apoptosis, and cell cycle analysis) were conducted in SiHa cells following individual and combined miRNA inhibition. ResultsInhibition of miR-135b-5p and miR-21-5p significantly restored LIMD1 (P=0.019) and VHL (P=0.025), respectively, leading to reduced HIF-1α expression (P<0.03). Dual miRNA inhibition had a profound impact on reducing proliferation, migration, invasion and enhancing apoptosis compared to individual knockdowns, whereas G0/G1 arrest was more profound in individual knockdown compared to control cells. Interpretation & conclusionsmiR-135b-5p and miR-21-5p act synergistically as oncomiRs by suppressing LIMD1 and VHL, promoting HIF-1α-mediated cervical cancer progression. This study demonstrated the synergistic oncogenic role of miR-135b-5p and miR-21-5p in cervical cancer via co-regulation of the LIMD1-VHL-HIF-1α axis.
Tamoxifen remains a first-line treatment for estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer. Emerging evidence indicates that aberrant 5-methylcytosine (m5C) modification of RNAs contributes to chemotherapeutic resistance in various types of cancer, however their role in determining tamoxifen resistance in breast cancer remains elusive.We measured global m5C RNA methylation and expression of its regulating enzymes in tamoxifen-sensitive (MCF-7) versus tamoxifen-resistant cells (MCF-7 Tam1). Expression of the most significantly dysregulated enzyme NOP2/Sun RNA methyltransferase family member 7 (NSUN7), the key m5C writer methyltransferase, was depleted using siRNA-mediated knockdown. Functional assays were performed to measure sensitivity to tamoxifen, cell migration, and colony-forming potential. RNA sequencing followed by enrichment and network analysis identified NSUN7-regulated pathways and hub genes. Finally, the prognostic relevance of hub genes was assessed using the Gene Expression Profiling Interactive Analysis platform.Tamoxifen-resistant cells exhibited a significant elevation in global m5C levels and expression of NSUN7. siRNA-mediated reduction of NSUN7 significantly restored sensitivity to tamoxifen, reducing the half-maximal inhibitory concentration by ~50%, and significantly inhibited cell migration and colony-forming potential. Transcriptomic profiling and enrichment analysis identified that NSUN7 targets were enriched in crucial pathways, including mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway, phosphatidylinositol signaling, cell cycle, and focal adhesion. Notably, NSUN7 depletion caused dysregulation in the expression of genes implicated in tamoxifen resistance, such as brain acid-soluble protein 1 (BASP1), tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 3 (TIMP3), ajuba LIM protein (AJUBA), S-phase kinase-associated protein 2 (SKP2) and yes-associated protein 1 (YAP1). Network analysis further identified NSUN7-regulated hub genes significantly associated with disease prognosis.Our study identified that NSUN7 regulates key oncogenic pathways associated with tamoxifen resistance and metastasis. Its suppression enhanced tamoxifen sensitivity and reduced metastatic potential, collectively highlighting NSUN7 as a novel driver of tamoxifen resistance and a potent therapeutic target in estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer.Copyright © 2025 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41297092 is a review article
Ajuba (ajuba LIM protein, JUB) is a member of the Ajuba family, and its oncogenic biological functions in colorectal cancer (CRC) have been extensively reported including proliferation, metastasis and resistance to chemotherapy. Although considerable studies have reported the regulation of Ajuba at the transcriptional level, the potential mechanisms of regulating Ajuba protein stability have not been fully elucidated to date. Herein, we showed that the mRNA and protein expression of Ajuba is upregulated in CRC tissues, high protein level correlates with unfavorable prognosis. Importantly, we identified Ajuba as a novel substrate of GSK3β kinase and SCFβ-TrCP E3 ubiquitin ligase. Mechanistically, GSK3β phosphorylates Ajuba at serine 163 in the highly conserved degron motif (TS163GIS), which determines the interaction between Ajuba and the C-terminal WD40 domain of β-TrCP, and subsequent ubiquitination and targeted proteasomal degradation of Ajuba by β-TrCP. Conversely, the S163A mutant significantly attenuates the ubiquitination level of Ajuba. Overall, our study reveals a novel regulatory mechanism of Ajuba at post-translational level and sheds light on the role of GSK3β-β-TrCP axis in the turnover of Ajuba in CRC.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Recurrent spontaneous abortion (RSA) is a pregnancy-related condition characterized by a complex etiology. While placental trophoblast dysfunction is strongly associated with the development and progression of RSA, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood. In this study, we observed a significant decrease in the expression of MYB Proto-Oncogene Like 2 (MYBL2) in the villous tissue of patients with RSA and the placentas of abortion-prone (AP) mice. Utilizing human trophoblast stem cells (hTSCs), we identified MYBL2 as a critical regulator of hTSCs stemness maintenance, promoting the expression of the stemness-associated genes Tumor protein p63 (TP63) and TEA Domain Transcription Factor 4 (TEAD4). Furthermore, MYBL2 facilitates the differentiation of hTSCs into extravillous trophoblast (EVT) by positively regulating Ajuba LIM Protein (AJUBA) expression. Using HTR-8/SVneo cell line, an immortalized EVT-like model, we found that MYBL2 positively regulates AJUBA expression by binding to the distal region of the AJUBA promoter. Additionally, the MYBL2-AJUBA axis enhances the migration and invasion of HTR-8/SVneo cells by suppressing the Hippo signaling pathway. Our study indicates that the dysregulation of MYBL2 expression in placental trophoblasts is associated with the pathogenesis of RSA, highlighting its potential as a therapeutic target for this condition.
Pathological cardiac hypertrophy plays a significant role in the development and progression of heart failure (HF). LIM Domain Containing 1 (LIMD1) serves as a crucial regulatory factor in protein-protein interactions during cellular signal transduction. This study aims to investigate the specific roles and mechanisms of LIMD1 in pathological cardiac remodeling.We employed an adeno-associated virus 9 (AAV9) system to overexpress LIMD1 in the hearts through tail vein injection. C57BL/6 mice underwent transverse aortic constriction (TAC) for four weeks. Cardiac function was assessed using echocardiography, while cardiac remodeling was evaluated through histopathology and molecular techniques.Our findings demonstrated elevated levels of LIMD1 in murine hearts subjected to TAC treatment and H9c2 cells challenged with angiotensin II (Ang II). Compared with wild-type (WT) mice, those injected with AAV-9-LIMD1 exhibited significantly reduced TAC-induced cardiac dysfunction, hypertrophy, and fibrosis. Mechanistically, both in vitro and in vivo experiments suggested that the beneficial effects of LIMD1 might be associated with the inhibition of the YAP1/AKT/GSK3β signaling pathway.In summary, this study is the first to demonstrate the protective effects of LIMD1 against TAC-induced pathological cardiac remodeling. These effects are attributed to the inhibition of the YAP1/AKT/GSK3β signaling pathway.Copyright: © 2025 Xie et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Background & objectives Given the importance of the role of hypoxia induced pathway in different cancers including head-and-neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC), this study delved into elucidating the molecular mechanism of hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF1α) activation in HNSCC. Additionally, it analyzes the alterations of its regulatory genes [von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) and LIM domain containing 1 (LIMD1)] and target gene vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in head-and-neck lesions at different clinical stages in relation with human papillomavirus (HPV) infection. Methods Global mRNA expression profiles of HIF1α, VHL, LIMD1 and VEGF were evaluated from public datasets of HNSCC, followed by validation of their expression (mRNA/protein) in an independent set of HPV+ve/-ve HNSCC samples of different clinical stages. Results A diverse expression pattern of the HIF1α pathway genes was observed, irrespective of HPV infection, in the datasets. In validation in an independent set of HNSCC samples, high mRNA expressions of HIF1α/VEGF were observed particularly in HPV positive samples. However, VHL/LIMD1 mRNA expression was low in tumours regardless of HPV infection status. In immunohistochemical analysis, high/medium (H/M) expression of HIF1α/VEGF was observed in basal/parabasal layers of normal epithelium, with significantly higher expression in tumours, especially in HPV-positive samples. Conversely, high cytoplasmic VHL expression in these layers gradually decreased with the progression of HNSCC, regardless of HPV infection. A similar trend was noted in LIMD1 expression (nuclear/cytoplasmic) during the disease development. The methylation pattern of VHL and LIMD1 promoters in the basal/parabasal layers of normal epithelium correlated with their expression, exhibiting a gradual increase with the progression of HNSCC. The H/M expression of HIF1α/VEGF proteins and reduced VHL expression was associated with poor clinical outcomes. Interpretation & conclusions The results of this study showed differential regulation of the LIMD1-VHL-HIF1α pathway in HPV positive and negative HNSCC samples, illustrating the molecular distinctiveness of these two groups.
Transcriptional dysregulation of genes is a hallmark of tumors and can serve as targets for cancer drug development. However, it is extremely challenging to develop small-molecule inhibitors to target abnormally expressed transcription factors (TFs) except for the nuclear receptor family of TFs. Little is known about the interaction between TFs and transcription cofactors in gastroesophageal adenocarcinoma (GEA) or the therapeutic effects of targeting TF and transcription cofactor complexes. In this study, we found that ETS homologous factor (EHF) expression is promoted by a core transcriptional regulatory circuitry (CRC), specifically ELF3-KLF5-GATA6, and interference with its expression suppressed the malignant biological behavior of GEA cells. Importantly, we identified Ajuba LIM protein (AJUBA) as a new coactivator of EHF that cooperatively orchestrates transcriptional network activity in GEA. Furthermore, we identified KRAS signaling as a common pathway downstream of EHF and AJUBA. Applicably, dual targeting of EHF and AJUBA by lipid nanoparticles cooperatively attenuated the malignant biological behaviors of GEA in vitro and in vivo. In conclusion, EHF is upregulated by the CRC and promotes GEA malignancy by interacting with AJUBA through the KRAS pathway. Targeting of both EHF and its coactivator AJUBA through lipid nanoparticles is a novel potential therapeutic strategy.© 2024 The Authors.
Acquired resistance to epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs) remains a major obstacle in the treatment of lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD), yet the underlying mechanisms are incompletely understood.This study investigated the role of the STRIP2-IGF2BP3 axis in TKI resistance. In vitro and in vivo experiments were performed to evaluate the effect of this axis on TKI sensitivity, the mechanism by which it regulates Twist1 stability, and the prognostic relevance of these markers in LUAD tissue samples.STRIP2 was upregulated in TKI-resistant patient samples and cells. Knockdown of STRIP2 markedly restored EGFR-TKIs sensitivity both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, STRIP2 cooperated with IGF2BP3 to drive acquired resistance by enhancing m6A modification of Twist1 and stabilizing Twist1 in an IGF2BP3-dependent manner.These findings highlight that the STRIP2-IGF2BP3-Twist1 axis, which mediates acquired resistance to EGFR-TKIs, represents a potential therapeutic target for LUAD patients.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Acute lung injury (ALI) is a common disorder of the respiratory system with high mortality. Inducing mitophagy is generally considered to be an effective target for alleviating ALI. We aimed to elucidate the role of immunity related GTPase M (IRGM) in ALI by using a lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced alveolar epithelial cell model. Firstly, IRGM expression in A549 cells under LPS conditions was evaluated. Then, IRGM was upregulated and oxidative stress was evaluated by measuring intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) using 2', 7'-Dichlorofluorescin diacetate (DCFH-DA) staining. The permeability of A549 cells was determined by detecting transepithelial electrical resistance (TEER) value and fluorescein isothiocyanate-dextran 4 (FITC-FD4) fluorescence. Proteins related to epithelial barrier, mitophagy and mitochondrial function were assessed. Further Mdivi-1 (an inhibitor of mitophagy) addition or cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS)- stimulator of interferon genes (STING) signaling overexpression was conducted to investigate the potential mechanism. Results suggested that IRGM was downregulated in LPS-treated A549 cells and IRGM upregulation alleviated LPS-induced oxidative stress, inflammation and barrier dysfunction in A549 cells. IRGM upregulation induced mitophagy and maintains mitochondrial function in LPS-treated A549 cells. Particularly, Mdivi-1 treatment or cGAS overexpression abrogated the impacts of IRGM upregulation on oxidative stress, inflammation and barrier dysfunction in LPS-treated A549 cells. Collectively, IRGM attenuates LPS-triggered alveolar epithelial cell damage by enhancing mitophagy to inactivate cGAS/STING signaling.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Neurons are subjected to various stresses, including high metabolic demand, physiological activity, and transcriptional regulation, to which their genomic DNA are vulnerable. Genome stability of neurons is essential for proper physiological brain function. Failure in accurate genomic DNA repair can result in abnormal neuronal functions or cell death. Genomic instability has been implicated in increased risks of neurodevelopmental and neurodegenerative disorders. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying neuronal genome stability remain poorly understood. Mutations in the Strawberry Notch Homolog 1 (SBNO1) have been suggested to contribute to these disorders. Here, we investigated the molecular mechanisms underlying histological abnormalities observed in the cortex of Sbno1 knockout (KO) mice. Comprehensive gene expression analysis revealed that Sbno1 KO affects the expression of genes related to cell survival, consistent with the increased apoptosis observed in Sbno1 KO cortices. Among the genes downregulated in Sbno1 KO, we focused on Yeats4. Overexpression of Yeats4 rescued the accumulation of genomic DNA damage and cell death caused by Sbno1 deletion. These findings suggest that Sbno1 is critical in safeguarding the neuronal genome, at least in part, via regulating Yeats4 expression.© 2025. The Author(s).
The study aimed to explore the effects of EGb761 on vascular dementia (VD) rats and the mechanisms of action.The Morris water maze test was utilized to assess the spatial learning and memory abilities of the rats; Hematoxylin and Eosin (HE) staining and electron microscopy were used to observe changes in hippocampal neuron cells; Immunohistochemistry was performed to detect the expression of cleaved caspase-3 and microtubule-associated proteins light chain 3 (LC3-II) positive cells in hippocampal neurons; immunofluorescence staining was carried out to determine the immunofluorescence intensity of IRGM in hippocampal neurons; western blotting was used to measure the expression of related proteins.EGb761 significantly improved the cognitive function of vascular dementia rats (P < 0.01) and reduced the apoptosis of hippocampal neurons.Furthermore, EGb761 suppressed ROS, thereby promoting the expression of proteins related to the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway and inhibiting the expression of C-Jun N-terminal Kinase (p-JNK), c-Jun N-terminal kinase (p-c-JUN), Protein 53 (P53), immunity-related GTPase M (IRGM), Transcription Factor EB (TFEB), microtubule-associated proteins light chain 3 (LC3), Lysosomal Associated Membrane Protein 1 (LAMP1), and Sequestosome 1 (SQSTM1).Ginkgo Biloba Extract 761 (EGb761) mediated the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway to inhibit apoptosis and autophagy in hippocampal neurons in VD rats.© 2025. The Author(s).
In this study, we aimed to examine the cochlear expression pattern and function of Striatin-interacting protein 2 (STRIP2) by using animal models.Sensorineural hearing loss often results from genetic defects in hair cell (HC) development and function. STRIP2 is a part of the striatin-interacting phosphatase and kinase (STRIPAK) complex, which plays important regulatory roles in cell fate determination, proliferation, cytoskeletal organization, and cell morphology. A recent study revealed Strip2 as the candidate gene that regulates positive selection in HC lineages. However, its role in the inner ear has not been identified.Strip2 knockout mouse model was used to examine the cochlear expression pattern and function of STRIP2. Auditory brainstem response test was used to evaluate the hearing function of mice. Immunostaining and scanning electron microscope were used to study hair cells, synapses, and stereocilia of cochlea.Immunostaining showed that cytoplasmic STRIP2 expression in hair cells increased from postnatal day (P) 3 to P14. Despite having normal hearing thresholds, hair cell numbers, and stereocilia morphology until P90, the deletion of Strip2 resulted in a mild reduction in ribbon synapse density, suggesting a late onset of cochlear synaptic defects.Our results revealed that STRIP2 was abundantly expressed in hair cells; however, the hearing function of Strip2-/- mice was comparable to that of control mice until P90, and a mild decrease in ribbon synapse number was detected at P60 and P90. Further studies on STRIP2 and its associated complexes will provide new insights into the pathways involved in inner ear development and function.Copyright © 2025, Otology & Neurotology, Inc.
Recent studies identified that SH3 and multiple ankyrin repeat domains 2 (SHANK2) is located in a gene-amplified region 11q13 of various human cancers, and has oncogenic functions as a Hippo pathway suppressor in hepatocellular carcinoma. In this study, we tested whether SHANK2 acts as a cancer-promoting gene through its activation or overexpression in gastric cancer (GC).We analyzed 5 GC cell lines and 172 primary tumor samples of GC, which were curatively resected in our hospital.Overexpression of SHANK2 protein was frequently detected in GC cell lines (4/5 cell lines, 80%). Knockdown of SHANK2 inhibited cell proliferation, migration and invasion of GC cells in a TP53 mutation-independent manner, and induced the overexpression of the Hippo pathway genes. Fluorescent immunostaining showed that overexpression of SHANK2 in cytoplasm was inversely correlated with Yes1-associated transcriptional regulator (YAP) expression, suggesting that SHANK2 may play a role in suppressing the Hippo pathway in GC. In primary GC samples, both overexpression of SHANK2 in cytoplasm and low expression of SHANK2 in nucleus, which are defined as high SHANK2 index, correlated with more aggressive venous invasion, advanced tumor and nodal stage. Patients with high SHANK2 index tumors had a lower overall survival rate than those with non-expressing tumors. Multivariate analysis demonstrated that high SHANK2 index was independently associated with poor outcomes.These findings suggest that SHANK2 plays a crucial role in tumor malignant potential through the Hippo pathway suppression and highlight its usefulness as a prognostic factor and potential therapeutic target in GC.AJCR Copyright © 2025.
Skipped: PubMed ID 39626932 is a review article
This study investigates the prognostic significance of SH3 and multiple ankyrin repeat domains 2 (SHANK2) gene expression in glioma patients, using data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), the Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx) project, and the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO). Through comprehensive analysis, we found a significant association between higher SHANK2 expression and improved survival outcomes across various glioma subtypes. To further validate the clinical relevance of SHANK2, we conducted cellular experiments involving siRNA-mediated knockdown of SHANK2 in U87 and A172 glioma cell lines. Quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) and Western blot analyses confirmed the successful knockdown of SHANK2, and subsequent MTT assays revealed that silencing SHANK2 significantly promoted glioma cell proliferation. These findings underscore the potential role of SHANK2 as a tumor suppressor in glioma. The study also introduces a multivariate prognostic model incorporating SHANK2, providing a novel perspective on glioma prognosis. While the retrospective nature of the study presents limitations, our results suggest that SHANK2 expression could serve as a valuable biomarker for glioma prognosis and inform future therapeutic strategies.Copyright © 2024 Wenlin Li et al.
Patients with lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) generally have poor prognosis. The role of striatin-interacting protein 2 (STRIP2) in LUAD remain unclear.Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry analyses were used to screen the STRIP2-binding proteins and co-immunoprecipitation verified these interactions. A dual luciferase reporter assay explored the transcription factor activating STRIP2 transcription. Xenograft and lung metastasis models assessed STRIP2's role in tumor growth and metastasis in vivo.STRIP2 is highly expressed in LUAD tissues and is linked to poor prognosis. STRIP2 expression in LUAD cells significantly promoted cell proliferation, invasion, and migration in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, STRIP2 boosted the PI3K/AKT/mTOR/MYC cascades by binding AKT. In addition, specificity protein 1, potently activated STRIP2 transcription by binding to the STRIP2 promoter. Blocking STRIP2 reduces tumor growth and lung metastasis in xenograft models.Our study identifies STRIP2 is a key driver of LUAD progression and a potential therapeutic target.Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 2 (IRAK2) is essential for the Myddosome complex formation downstream of Toll-like receptors. We identify twelve patients with a homozygous loss-of-function copy number variant in IRAK2, designated IRAK2-∆ex2. Most patients present with recurrent infections, autoantibody production, and gastrointestinal ulceration. Two patients were clinically diagnosed with primary immunodeficiency, while the majority fulfill diagnostic criteria for autoimmune or autoinflammatory diseases. The IRAK2-∆ex2 protein fails to interact with IRAK4, leading to impaired activation of nuclear factor kappa B signaling via the Myddosome complex. An elevated type I interferon signature is observed in the patients, which is confirmed in bone marrow-derived macrophages from knock-in mice and knockout cell lines. Mechanistically, our data are consistent with engagement of a TRIF-dependent interferon pathway. Baricitinib attenuates the elevated interferon signature in patient-derived cells ex vivo and cell lines. Here, we show IRAK2 deficiency as a monogenic immune dysregulation disorder.© 2026. The Author(s).
Inflammation plays a critical role in cancer initiation and progression by modulating the tumor microenvironment and immune responses. Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 2 (IRAK2) is a key mediator of the Toll-like receptor and interleukin-1 receptor signaling pathways, its pan-cancer expression patterns, genomic and epigenetic features, immune-related roles, and clinical relevance remain unclear.The expression patterns of IRAK2 across multiple cancer types, transcript variants, single-cell distribution, prognostic significance, and biological functions were comprehensively evaluated through analyses of multiple databases and multi-dimensional datasets. Furthermore, the correlations of IRAK2 with the immune microenvironment, epigenetic modifications, and drug sensitivity were investigated. The potential role of IRAK2 in hepatocellular carcinoma was further explored through both in vitro and in vivo experiments.Aberrant expression of IRAK2 was observed in the majority of cancer types, with a relatively high proportion of expression detected in macrophages, and was found to be associated with the prognosis of certain cancers. In most cancer types, IRAK2 expression showed significant correlations with immune cell infiltration, the cancer-immunity cycle, major histocompatibility complex molecules, immune checkpoints, tumor mutational burden, microsatellite instability, RNA modifications (including m1A, m5C, and m6A), and DNA methylation sites. Both in vitro and in vivo experiments demonstrated that knockdown of IRAK2 markedly reduced the proliferative capacity of hepatocellular carcinoma cells.The present study highlights the potential of IRAK2 expression as a novel biomarker for predicting the prognosis and immunotherapeutic response across various human cancers.© 2025. The Author(s).
Glioblastoma (GBM) cells mediate immunosuppressive microenvironment, leading to poor response to programmed death-ligand 1(PD-L1) inhibitor therapy. How PD-L1 in GBM cells confers to GBM immunosuppressive microenvironment remains unclear. Here, we demonstrate that PD-L1 activated GP130/JAK2/STAT3/IRAK2/NFκB/IL6 pathway. We showed that PD-L1 was elevated in human primary GBM and promoted GBM cell viability, migration and invasion via activating janus kinase 2(JAK2) by interacting with glycoprotein 130(GP130) and PD-1 in GBM cells, leading to the activation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3), a master that renders GBM immunosuppression. Overexpressing STAT3 reversed the effect of silencing PD-L1-mediated cell viability, proliferation, migration and invasion. STAT3 promoted interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 2(IRAK2) transcription. IRAK2 overexpression rescued the effect of silencing STAT3-mediated cell viability, proliferation, migration and invasion. Additionally, IRAK2 facilitated interleukin-6 (IL6) expression via activating nuclear factor kappa-B (NFκB). Our results indicate that PD-L1/GP130/JAK2/STAT3/IRAK2/NFκB/IL6 axis promotes GBM cell viability, proliferation, migration and invasion via interacting with GP130 and PD-1 in GBM cells. Additionally, STAT3 transcriptionally promoted PD-L1 expression, thus forming loops to lead to PD-L1 autoregulation. IL6 positively correlated with GBM-associated macrophages, myeloid-derived suppressor cells and the inhibition of dendritic cells. Our study suggests that PD-L1 autoregulation may create immunosuppressive GBM via activating GP130/JAK2/STAT3/IRAK2/IL-6 pathway.© 2025. The Author(s).
Current treatments for pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) fall short of meeting clinical needs, highlighting the urgent need for a comprehensive understanding of PDAC progression, which involves not only biochemical signals but also essential biomechanical cues. Here, we used a CRISPR-Cas9 screen in an orthotopic xenograft model to explore PDAC dynamics. The RNA binding protein DEAD-box helicase 3X-linked (DDX3X) was identified as a pivotal oncogene and biomechanical checkpoint. Specifically, DDX3X up-regulation in PDAC promoted tumorigenesis and metastasis, primarily through the transcriptional repressor TLE family member 2 (TLE2). Dysregulation of DDX3X in the tumor destabilized TLE2 messenger RNA and therefore disrupted the interaction with KLF4 (KLF transcription factor 4), leading to increased expression of myosin light chain 9 (MYL9). This change remodeled F-actin, enhancing tumor cell traction forces and consequently facilitating tumor metastasis. Targeting the DDX3X-TLE2-MYL9 pathway considerably reduces PDAC progression. This research reveals a promising approach for treating PDAC by focusing on biomechanical cues.
Neuroblastoma (NB), a pediatric solid malignancy, is distinguished by hetergenous clinical characteristics, including tumor aggressiveness or spontaneous regression. Nevertheless, the regulatory mechanisms and therapeutic approaches underlying these processes are still mainly unknown. Herein, RAR-related orphan receptor B (RORB) as a transcription factor repressing nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) signaling involved in lysosomal biogenesis of NB. RORB attenuated the growth, invasiveness, and metastatic spread of NB cells are identified. From a mechanistic perspective, RORB increased the transcription of nuclear receptor subfamily 1 group D member 1 (NR1D1)- or RIO kinase 3 (RIOK3)- in a circadian clock-dependent manner, resulting in suppression of NF-κB activity, subsequent derepression of folliculin (FLCN)- or folliculin interacting protein 1 (FNIP1)- levels, and decrease of lysosomal biogenesis in NB cells. Meanwhile, in liquid condensates, RNA binding motif protein 10 (RBM10) interacted with RORB to repress its transactivation and exerted oncogenic roles in lysosomal biogenesis and aggressiveness of NB cells. Pre-clinically, a small peptide is able to block the interaction between RBM10 and RORB, and suppresses lysosomal biogenesis, tumorigenesis, and aggressiveness. High levels of RORB, NR1D1, RIOK3, FLCN, and FNIP1, or low expression of RBM10, are linked to favorable prognosis of clinical NB cases. These results indicate that targeting RBM10-repressed RORB activity in liquid condensates inhibits lysosomal biogenesis and NB progression via affecting NF-κB signaling.© 2025 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is one of the most lethal malignancies with few effective therapies available. We previously determined the essential role of Zic family member 5 (ZIC5) in the survival of PDAC cells. In this study, we showed that targeting ZIC5 can effectively shrink PDAC tumors treated with gemcitabine in vivo and investigated the molecular mechanisms involved. When tumor-bearing mice were injected intravenously with ZIC5-targeting small interfering RNA, tumor volume was significantly reduced by gemcitabine treatment. RNA-sequencing analysis was used to identify the genes affected by ZIC5 knockdown. Among these, we selected the genes whose mRNA expression levels correlated with that of ZIC5 in pancreatic cancer and those associated with poor prognosis in patients with pancreatic cancer. Further analysis revealed that RIO kinase 3 (RIOK3) promotes PDAC cell survival, whereas ALDH3B1, PTGES, and TUFT1 contribute to gemcitabine resistance in MiaPaca-2 cells. We identified RIOK3 as a direct target gene of ZIC5 using ChIP and luciferase assays. Furthermore, stable expression of RIOK3 in PANC-1 cells reversed the reduction in cell number following ZIC5 knockdown. These findings highlight RIOK3 as a critical target of ZIC5, which is involved in survival signaling in PDAC cells.© 2025 The Author(s). The FEBS Journal published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
Enterovirus infections are implicated in the pathogenesis of inflammatory diseases, such as viral myocarditis, meningitis, and pancreatitis. These infections activate innate and inflammatory immune responses upon viral entry into host cells. However, the precise mechanisms through which enteroviruses induce inflammation to facilitate viral replication remain unclear. N(6)-methyladenosine (m6A), one of the most abundant internal modifications on eukaryotic mRNAs, is regulated by METTL3, a key "writer" enzyme in the m6A methyltransferase complex. This study identifies RIO kinase 3 (RIOK3), a serine-threonine protein kinase, involved in innate immunity, inflammation, and cell cycle regulation, as a critical factor in Coxsackievirus B3 (CVB3) infection. CVB3 infection significantly increases RIOK3 expression both in vivo and in vitro, accompanied by elevated m6A modifications on RIOK3 mRNA. METTL3-mediated m6A modification enhances RIOK3 transcription, which in turn downregulates CDC42, a small GTPase of the Rho subfamily, that regulates key cellular processes, including antiviral signaling. This suppression of CDC42 promotes CVB3 replication. Additionally, RIOK3 and CDC42 modulate the NF-κB signaling pathway, a pivotal regulator of inflammatory and immune responses during infection. These findings reveal that m6A-modified RIOK3 promotes enterovirus replication by activating the NF-κB signaling pathway via CDC42 suppression, providing novel insights into the molecular mechanisms of enterovirus pathogenesis.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Prostate cancer is recognized as one of the most common tumors among men worldwide, yet the molecular mechanisms underlying its progression remain to be fully understood. In this study, we explored the role of interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 2 (IRAK2) in the progression of prostate cancer. We discovered that IRAK2 expression is downregulated in prostate cancer tissues and cells. Functional assays, including MTT, transwell assays, wound healing assays, and in vivo xenograft models, demonstrated that upregulation of IRAK2 significantly inhibited prostate cancer cell viability, migration, invasion, and tumor growth. Furthermore, we found that IRAK2 modulates the biological functions of prostate cancer by interacting with TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6). Knockdown of TRAF6 reversed the suppressive effects of IRAK2 overexpression on prostate cancer cell progression. Additionally, IRAK2 was found to suppress the ubiquitination and degradation of TRAF6 in prostate cancer cells. IRAK2 also influenced the sensitivity of prostate cancer cells to docetaxel (DTX), and silencing IRAK2 reversed the anti-tumor effects of DTX on prostate cancer cells. Our findings suggest that IRAK2 functions as a tumor suppressor in prostate cancer and may serve as a potential therapeutic target for developing effective treatments for prostate cancer.Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Exosomes (Exos) from adipose-derived stem cells (ADSCs) have a high inclusion content and low immunogenicity, which helps to control inflammation and accelerate the healing of wounds. Unfortunately, the yield of exosomes is poor, which raises the expense and lengthens the treatment period in addition to impairing exosomes' therapeutic impact. Thus, one of the key problems that needs to be resolved in the current exosome study is increasing the exosome yield.Tetraspanin-6 (TSPAN6) overexpression and knockdown models of ADSCs were constructed to determine the number of exosomes secreted by each group of cells as well as the number of multivesicular bodies (MVBs) and intraluminal vesicles (ILVs) within the cells. Subsequently, the binding region of the interaction between TSPAN6 and syntenin-1 was identified using the yeast two-hybrid assay, and the interaction itself was identified by immunoprecipitation. Finally, cellular and animal studies were conducted to investigate the role of each class of exosomes.When compared to the control group, the number of intracellular MVBs and ILVs was significantly larger, and the number of ADSCsTSPAN6+-Exos was more than three times higher. However, TSPAN6's ability to stimulate exosome secretion was reduced as a result of syntenin-1 knockdown. Additional yeast two-hybrid assay demonstrated that the critical structures for their interaction were the N-terminal, Postsynaptic density protein 95/Discs large protein/Zonula occludens 1 (PDZ1), and PDZ2 domains of syntenin-1, and the C-terminal of TSPAN6. In animal trials, the wound healing rate was best in the ADSCsTSPAN6+-Exos group, while cellular experiments demonstrated that ADSCsTSPAN6+-Exos better enhanced the proliferation and migration of human skin fibroblasts (HSFs) and human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs).TSPAN6 stimulates exosome secretion and formation, as well as the creation of MVBs and ILVs in ADSCs. Syntenin-1 is essential for TSPAN6's stimulation of ADSCs-Exos secretion. Furthermore, ADSCsTSPAN6+-Exos has a greater ability to support wound healing, angiogenesis, and the proliferation and migration of a variety of cells.© 2024. The Author(s).
Several tetraspanin (TSPAN) proteins have been implicated in tumorigenesis and disease progression. However, the precise function of tetraspanin 6 (TSPAN6) in glioma remains unclear.Integrated raw data from the Tumor Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Gene Expression Profiling (GEO) databases were processed using R4.2.1. Bioinformatic methods were used to analyze the gene expression levels of TSPAN6 in both glioma and normal brain tissues, correlating them with clinical characteristics. Additionally, the predictive value of TSPAN6 in relation to the immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) therapy response was assessed. In vitro experiments were conducted to investigate the effects of TSPAN6 knockdown on glioma cell proliferation, migration, cell cycle regulation, and macrophage recruitment.TSPAN6 expression was significantly upregulated in glioma tissues compared to normal tissues. Elevated TSPAN6 expression is strongly correlated with unfavorable clinical characteristics in gliomas. Bioinformatic analyses revealed a significant correlation between elevated TSPAN6 expression and reduced overall survival. Additionally, TSPAN6 was co-expressed with several immune checkpoint genes and revealed a prognostic value in the context of ICB therapy. Functional enrichment analysis revealed the involvement of TSPAN6 in cell-cycle regulation. Furthermore, TSPAN6 expression positively correlated with macrophage and neutrophil infiltration. In vitro experiments confirmed that the downregulation of TSPAN6 inhibited U251 cell proliferation, disrupted the cell cycle, diminished migratory capabilities, and reduced the recruitment of macrophages.Our findings emphasize its potential as both a diagnostic and therapeutic target as well as a predictor of immune therapy response in gliomas.© 2024. The Author(s).
Cathepsins (CTS) family of lysosomal proteases is characterized by high expression and proteolytic activity across various species. Notably, cathepsin B (CTSB) and cathepsin L (CTSL) have been implicated in uterine remodeling, follicle atrophy, and granulosa cell apoptosis in various vertebrates. This study investigated the role of the CTS members in post-parturitional ovarian remodeling in ovoviviparous black rockfish (Sebastes schlegelii). We cloned the ctsb (993 bp, encoding 330 amino acids) and ctsl (1011 bp, encoding 336 amino acids) genes from black rockfish. Quantitative Real-time PCR (qPCR) analysis revealed widespread tissue distribution for both genes, with ctsb expression being significantly highest in the ovary and markedly upregulated during the parturition process. In contrast, ctsl exhibited low ovarian expression with no increasing trend. In situ hybridization (ISH) and immunohistochemistry (IHC) localized CTSB to the ovarian stromal periphery and specific oocytes. Functional studies using recombinant mature CTSB demonstrated its proteolytic activity on ovarian tissue, leading to a significant increase in arginine (Arg) content. Post-parturition supplementation with Arg notably restored serum nutritional levels. Furthermore, dual- luciferase assays identified functional binding sites for Estrogen Receptor 1 (ESR1) and Specificity Protein 1 (SP1) within the ctsb promoter, regulating its transcription. Collectively, our findings indicate that CTSB, a member of the CTS family, is likely involved in ovarian remodeling in black rockfish.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Early childhood exposure to bisphenol A (BPA) is closely associated with autism spectrum disorder (ASD), though the precise molecular mechanisms remain unclear. To investigate this, we employed an integrated computational approach combining network toxicology, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics simulation. Potential targets of BPA and ASD-related genes were collected from multiple databases, identifying 57 overlapping targets. Protein-protein interaction network analysis highlighted 16 core targets among them. Gene Ontology and KEGG pathway enrichment analyses indicated these targets are primarily involved in synaptic transmission, GABAergic signaling, and neuroactive ligand-receptor interactions. Molecular docking demonstrated potential binding between BPA and several core targets, including estrogen receptor 1 (ESR1), gamma-aminobutyric acid type A receptor subunit beta-2 (GABRB2), and amyloid precursor protein (APP), with binding energies below -5 kcal/mol. The stability of the BPA-ESR1 complex was further supported through 100 ns molecular dynamics simulation. These results suggest that BPA may contribute to ASD by disrupting neuroendocrine pathways and synaptic function via interactions with key targets such as ESR1.
Estrogen receptor 1 (ESR1) is an established oncogenic transcription factor in breast and endometrial cancer; however, more is known about the mechanisms controlling ESR1 behavior in breast cancer, and therapies targeting ESR1 have been much more successful in breast cancer. To address this disparity, we characterize the genomic features that control ESR1 in endometrial cancer and determine to what extent these factors differ from those in breast cancer. We focus on the locations of estrogen response elements (EREs), ESR1's preferred DNA binding motif, throughout the human genome. To identify factors that predict ER genomic binding and effects on target gene expression, we apply machine learning to genomic data for each ERE in Ishikawa cells (ESR1-positive endometrial cancer) and T-47D cells (ESR1-positive breast cancer). Many of these factors, such as chromatin accessibility and histone modifications, are predictive of ESR1 activity in both cell lines. However, the transcription factors that predict ESR1 activity are cell type-specific, including FOXA1 and GATA3 in T-47D cells, and ETV4 and SOX17 in Ishikawa cells. In addition, the features that predict ESR1 binding and effects on gene expression differ, with transcription at EREs in the absence of estrogen being predictive of ESR1 regulatory activity. A CRISPR knockout screen in Ishikawa cells, and follow-up experiments, confirm the discovery that SOX17 controls ESR1 activity in endometrial cancer cells. These results identify important genomic features of ESR1 binding and regulatory activity and how these features differ between endometrial cancer and breast cancer cells.Published by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press.
Postmenopausal women are at elevated risk for carotid atherosclerosis due to estrogen decline, yet existing prediction models do not incorporate genetic markers. This study aimed to develop and validate a risk prediction model combining clinical variables and estrogen receptor 1 rs9340799 genotype for postmenopausal Han women in northern China using logistic regression and machine learning approaches.A total of 276 postmenopausal Han women in northern China were recruited from 1 December 2024 to 30 April 2025. They were divided into a case group (n = 162) and a control group (n = 114) based on the presence of carotid atherosclerosis (CAS). ESR1 rs9340799, a polymorphism in the estrogen receptor alpha gene, was selected for genotyping (MAF > 0.05 in Chinese population) using high-resolution melting PCR. Univariate and multivariable logistic regression identified risk factors, and a nomogram was constructed based on age, systolic blood pressure (SBP), glucose (GLU), and rs9340799 genotype. Six machine learning algorithms were compared; logistic regression was selected given its ease of interpretation and resistance to overfitting. The model was externally validated in 47 subjects in the same institution from 1 May 2025 to 30 June 2025.In the case group, age, menopause duration, SBP, and GLU were significantly higher than in controls (all P < 0.01), and rs9340799 GG genotype showed a protective effect in univariate analysis (P = 0.045). Age, SBP, GLU, and rs9340799 were selected as predictors after excluding menopause duration due to collinearity with age. Among six ML algorithms, logistic regression achieved the highest AUC (0.709, 95% CI: 0.596-0.821) with acceptable calibration (Brier score = 0.227, HL P = 0.263) and the broadest DCA threshold range (0.30-0.75), and was selected as the final model. SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) analysis identified age as the most influential predictor. External validation in 47 subjects yielded an AUC of 0.65 (95% CI: 0.48-0.82), sensitivity of 0.82, and specificity of 0.55; the wide CI crossing 0.50 reflects the limited sample size, and further validation is warranted.This study developed a logistic regression model that included age, systolic blood pressure, GLU and ESR1 rs9340799 genotypes. The model demonstrated moderate discrimination in predicting the risk of carotid atherosclerosis in postmenopausal Han women in northern China. This model should be considered preliminary and needs further validation in larger, independent, multicenter cohorts for identifying high-risk populations for early intervention.© 2026 Liu et al.
The causal association between endoplasmic reticulum stress and renal cell carcinoma remains poorly defined. The present study aimed to identify potential causal relationships between endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress-related genes and renal cell carcinoma (RCC) by integrating multi-omics datasets using summary data-based Mendelian randomization (SMR). Data on the methylation, expression and protein levels of ER stress-related genes were obtained from quantitative trait loci studies. Genetic associations with RCC were derived from 11 studies comprising 5,219 RCC cases of European descent. SMR and colocalization analyses were performed to assess correlations and identify shared causal genetic variants. Molecular experiments were conducted for validation. In total, 1,193 ER stress-related genes were identified. SMR analysis revealed 3 DNA methylation probes (cg07431106, cg12446953 and cg08884395), 1 gene (polycystin 1) and 3 protein probes (SeqId_4125_52, SeqId_3448_13 and SeqId_17161_1) as key causal variants for RCC (SMR, P<0.01; Heterogeneity In Dependent Instruments, P>0.01). Bayesian colocalization analysis corroborated a strong causal relationship for all 7 variables (posterior probability for H4 >0.7). Multi-omics data integration identified PTEN induced kinase 1 as a protective factor and estrogen receptor 1 as a progression factor in RCC. Molecular experiments demonstrated that ER stress may be a mechanism for RCC progression and sunitinib resistance. The 7 key variables showed significant differences in an RCC cell line model, supporting the SMR results. In conclusion, the results of the present study suggested a potential association between ER stress and RCC. SMR analysis identified 3 cytosine-phosphate-guanine sites, 1 gene and 3 protein sites as causal variants associated with RCC.Copyright: © 2026 Gao et al.
Sijunzi decoction (SJZD) is a traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) commonly used for pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC), but its mechanisms remain unclear. This study investigates its molecular basis using network pharmacology and molecular docking.Active compounds and targets of SJZD were identified via Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology (TCMSP) Database and Analysis Platform, and PDAC-related targets were retrieved from Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man (OMIM) and GeneCards. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks, Gene Ontology (GO)/Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment, and tissue distribution analyses were conducted. Molecular docking evaluated binding affinities between compounds and targets. The anti-PDAC effects of SJZD were evaluated in vitro using human pancreatic cancer cell lines (CFPAC-1 and MiaPaCa-2) and in vivo using a patient-derived xenograft (PDX) mouse model.SJZD comprises 131 compounds and 260 targets, with key targets such as AKT serine/threonine kinase 1 (AKT1), BCL2 associated agonist of cell death (BAD), BCL2 apoptosis regulator (BCL2), and tumor protein p53 (TP53) identified through PPI analysis. Enrichment analyses highlighted the phosphatidylinositide 3-kinases (PI3K)/protein Kinase B (AKT)/mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase (mTOR) and apoptosis pathways as primary therapeutic mechanisms. SJZD exhibited cytotoxic effects against PDAC cells in vitro and suppressed tumor growth in vivo, with mechanistic analyses confirming its regulatory effects on the PI3K/AKT/mTOR and apoptosis pathways. Molecular docking revealed strong binding affinities, particularly for compounds targeting estrogen receptor 1 (ESR1) and estrogen receptor 2 (ESR2). These findings suggest that SJZD exerts anti-PDAC effects via multi-target modulation, primarily through inhibition of the PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling axis, induction of apoptosis and autophagy, and anti-inflammatory activity. The involvement of classic compounds supports the rationale of its traditional use, while experimental validation provides a mechanistic foundation for future clinical development.This study clarifies the active components, targets, and mechanisms of SJZD in treating PDAC, offering insights into the therapeutic potential of TCM.
Chronic kidney disease (CKD) affect about 10% of adults worldwide, with dyslipidemia being a common feature. Abnormalities in renal lipid metabolism have been strongly implicated in CKD progression; however, the mechanisms by which CKD leads to lipid metabolism disturbances remain underexplored. Here we show that following the accumulation of uremic toxins, the synthesis and deposition of lipids, along with the uremic toxin receptor aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR), are upregulated in the kidneys. Tubule-specific AhR knockout in male mice alleviates uremic toxin-induced increases in renal fatty acid (FA) synthesis, lipid accumulation and fibrosis. Immunoprecipitation‒mass spectrometry identifies nuclear receptor subfamily 1 group D member 1 (NR1D1) as an AhR-interacting protein. Co-immunoprecipitation confirms that AhR interacts with NR1D1 and promotes its ubiquitin-mediated degradation. As NR1D1 is an FA synthesis suppressor, its reduction relieves the transcriptional repressing effects on sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1 (SREBP1), thereby enhancing SREBP1/fatty acid synthase (FASN) pathway activity and FA synthesis. In summary, by acting on AhR, the accumulation of uremic toxins may accelerate renal fibrosis via the SREBP1/FASN pathway-mediated increase in FA synthesis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Spi-1 proto-oncogene (PU.1) is dysregulated in various immune disorders, including rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Herein, we investigate the role of PU.1 in the clearance and degradation of phagolysosomal cargo by synovial resident macrophages in RA.Collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) was used to establish an RA mouse model. Histological analysis was conducted using haematoxylin and eosin (HE) and safranine O/fast green staining. Macrophage function was determined using flow cytometry and propidium iodide staining assay. Moreover, gene expression was analysed by immunofluorescence, immunohistochemistry, western blot, and reverse transcription-quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR). Cytokine release was detected using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).We found that PU.1 was upregulated in response to RA. PU.1 depletion exacerbated synovial dysfunction, accompanied by the pyroptosis of synovial resident macrophages and the accumulation of dying fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) and inhibition of in vivo efferocytosis. Furthermore, PU.1 deficiency suppressed the formation of LC3-II. Additionally, PU.1 depletion decreased expansion of gelsolin (GSN)+CD86+ cells. Moreover, PU.1 transcriptionally inactivated NLR family pyrin domain containing 3 (NLRP3).Overexpressed PU.1 promoted the proliferation of synovial resident macrophages as well as the clearance of apoptotic FLS in RA. In summary, PU.1-mediated synovial resident macrophage efferocytosis promote tissue repair in RA. Therefore, targeting synovial resident macrophages may a novel strategy for RA.
Advances in genetic engineering have enabled the development of highly modified porcine models for xenotransplantation. Among available technologies, somatic cell nuclear transfer (SCNT) remains the most reliable method for generating multi-genic pigs carrying complex genetic modifications, including the knockout of porcine xenoantigens and the insertion of human immune regulatory genes. Despite these advances, the physiological viability of highly engineered cloned animals remains a major challenge. In our previous study, we generated cloned pigs carrying a knockout of α-1,3-galactosyltransferase (α-gal) and knock-in of five human immune-related genes: human decay-accelerating factor (hDAF), CD39 (hCD39), tissue factor pathway inhibitor (hTFPI), C1 inhibitor (hC1INH), and TNF-α-induced protein 3 (hTNFAIP3). Although genomic integration and cellular expression of these transgenes were confirmed, all piglets in this cohort died within 48 h after birth. Necropsy revealed no evidence of external trauma or systemic abnormalities in major organs. However, hemorrhagic lesions were observed in the left ventricular myocardium of all necropsied piglets, and histological examination confirmed localized intramyocardial hemorrhage without ventricular rupture or pericardial effusion. We propose that incomplete epigenetic reprogramming associated with SCNT, combined with the physiological burden of multi-gene expression, may have compromised myocardial microvascular integrity. Under the abrupt hemodynamic transition that occurs after birth, this structural vulnerability may predispose the left ventricle to intramyocardial hemorrhage and rapid cardiogenic collapse. These findings suggest that left ventricular hemorrhage may represent a previously underrecognized cause of early neonatal death in highly engineered SCNT-derived pigs.Copyright © 2026 Kim, Kim, Kim, Hwang, Sok, Hwang and Lee.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42335985 is a review article
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ coactivator 1α (PGC-1α) regulates the expression of clock gene nuclear receptor subfamily 1 group D member 1 (NR1D1) and is closely related to diabetes mellitus and ischemic heart disease. However, the mechanism by which PGC-1α/NR1D1 increases the vulnerability of diabetic myocardium to ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury has yet to be elucidated. This study aimed to explore the roles of PGC-1α/NR1D1-mediated regulation of mitochondrial biogenesis in myocardial I/R injury of type 2 diabetic mice.Type 2 diabetes was induced in C57BL/6 mice by a high-fat diet and streptozotocin. Diabetic and nondiabetic mice underwent I/R injury, with subsets receiving the NR1D1 agonist SR9009 or cardiac-specific Nr1d1 knockout. In parallel, rat cardiomyocyte-derived cell line H9c2 cardiomyocytes were exposed to high glucose and high fat and hypoxia/reoxygenation insult, with or without Pgc-1α overexpression by Pgc-1α lentivirus. Cardiac function in mice was assessed using an animal ultrasound system. Myocardial infarction size was determined by 2% 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride (TTC) staining. Serum levels of troponin I (cTn-I) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The expression levels of NR1D1, PGC-1α, nuclear respiratory factor 1 (NRF1), transcription factor A (TFAM), ‌autophagy-related protein 4 homolog B (ATG4B), and microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 (LC3) in mouse myocardial tissue were detected by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), Western blotting, and immunofluorescence. Meanwhile, the cell viability, apoptosis rate, mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS), mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP), and mitochondrial morphology of H9c2 cardiomyocyte were evaluated using assay kits.Compared with nondiabetic mice, diabetic mice exhibited larger infarct size, higher serum LDH and cTn-I, and severe ultrastructural damage. Cardiac PGC-1α and NR1D1 expression decreased significantly after I/R, accompanied by reduced NRF1 and TFAM levels and impaired mitochondrial biogenesis. Nr1d1 knockout further worsened injury, shown by increased infarct size and decreased left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), whereas SR9009 pretreatment restored PGC-1α expression, activated NRF1/TFAM signaling, and reduced infarct size. In vitro, high glucose and high fat plus hypoxia/reoxygenation increased LDH release and apoptosis while decreasing MMP and elevating ROS. Overexpression of Pgc-1α reversed these effects, improving cell viability and reducing ROS by upregulating NR1D1 and NRF1/TFAM.These results indicate that disruption of PGC-1α/NR1D1 signaling impairs mitochondrial function, exacerbating diabetic myocardial I/R injury. Pharmacological activation of Nr1d1 or Pgc-1α overexpression alleviates injury by restoring mitochondrial function. Targeting this axis represents a promising strategy for cardioprotection in diabetes.Copyright © 2026 The Chinese Medical Association, produced by Wolters Kluwer, Inc. under the CC-BY-NC-ND license.
Ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI) significantly impacts post-kidney transplantation (KTx), leading to delayed graft function (DGF) and potential graft loss. Current biomarkers and therapies for DGF and graft survival are inadequate. Immune cell infiltration after renal IRI is crucial in driving inflammation and injury.To address this, this study utilized microarray and RNA-seq datasets from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database to identify differentially expressed immune infiltration-related genes (DE-IRGs) in IRI patients. Machine learning (ML) algorithms pinpointed hub DE-IRGs, aiding in predictive model development and classification of post-KTx IRI samples into clusters and risk groups. Regulatory networks incorporating transcription factors (TFs) and microRNAs (miRNAs) were constructed using NetworkAnalyst 3.0, and predicted compounds/commonly used immunosuppressants were explored via Enrichr and molecular docking simulations.Analysis revealed 47 DE-IRGs, with hub genes (adrenomedullin [ADM], Serpin Family H Member 1 [SERPINH1], Solute carrier family 2 member 3 [SLC2A3], BCL-2-associated athanogene 3 [BAG3], NFKB inhibitor alpha [NFKBIA], Kruppel-like factor 6 [KLF6], and CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein delta [CEBPD]) linked to DGF and, in part, graft survival. Predictive models showed robust performance based on internal validation, with the DGF models achieving AUCs of 0.832 and 0.975 and graft survival models showing AUCs of 0.773, 0.742, and 0.757 for 1, 2, and 3 years, respectively. Higher immune cell infiltration correlated with adverse outcomes in cluster A or high-risk groups. Key immune cells associated with DGF included activated CD8 T cells, activated dendritic cells (DCs), and effector memory CD4 T cells. Core regulatory TFs and miRNAs were identified, along with four core predicted compounds: acetaminophen, estradiol, valproic acid, and berbamine (which require further pharmacological validation), and three common immunosuppressants: cyclosporin A, mycophenolate mofetil (MMF), and tacrolimus.Our study identified potential hub genes most associated with immune cells during the post-KTx IRI process, shedding light on the intricate interplay between genes, immune cells, and KTx outcomes.Copyright © 2026 Yifei Zhang et al. Mediators of Inflammation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Neutrophilic asthma (NA) is a severe treatment-resistant phenotype characterized by neutrophilic airway inflammation, for which effective therapeutic interventions are currently lacking. Shuangpi Formula (SP) is an optimized formula derived from Xiebaisan, a classical prescription first recorded in Xiao'er Yaozheng Zhijue (A.D. 1119, Song Dynasty). According to this canonical text, Xiebaisan is indicated for "lung heat with wheezing and cough" - symptoms that directly correspond to the clinical manifestations of NA. However, its efficacy on NA and the underlying mechanisms remain unexplored.This study aimed to investigate the therapeutic effects of SP on NA and to explore the underlying mechanisms.NA was induced in rats by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and ovalbumin (OVA). SP was administered, and its effects were assessed by measuring asthmatic latency, leukocyte counts and inflammatory cytokine levels in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF), and myeloperoxidase (MPO) expression in lung tissues. Transcriptomic analysis identified differentially expressed genes, with nuclear receptor subfamily 1 group D member 1 (NR1D1) upregulation confirmed by quantitative reverse transcription PCR (qRT-PCR) and immunofluorescence. Molecular docking evaluated binding affinities between NR1D1 and the main systemically absorbed bioactive components of SP. In vitro, the role of NR1D1 in SP's anti-inflammatory effects was examined using a pharmacological inhibitor.SP treatment significantly prolonged asthmatic latency, reduced leukocyte counts and inflammatory cytokine levels in BALF, and decreased MPO expression in lung tissues. These effects were superior to those of dexamethasone, without the adverse effects observed with dexamethasone. Transcriptomic analysis revealed marked upregulation of NR1D1, validated by qRT-PCR and immunofluorescence. Molecular docking indicated strong binding affinities between NR1D1 and several SP components, including Liquiritin, Glycyrrhizic acid, Oxyresveratrol, Mulberroside A, Glycyrrhetinic acid, and Kukoamine B. Importantly, pharmacological inhibition of NR1D1 abolished SP's regulatory effects on chemokine (Chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 2) and inflammatory cytokines (interleukin-6, tumor necrosis factor-α) in vitro.SP inhibits neutrophilic inflammation in NA, with evidence implicating NR1D1 as a key regulator. Pharmacological modulation of NR1D1 may represent a potential therapeutic approach for NA, although further genetic validation is required.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
WNT2B is canonically characterized as a secreted WNT-family ligand, which is transported to the extracellular space via the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-Golgi pathway and binds to cell surface FZDs (frizzled class receptors) to trigger downstream signaling cascades. Here, we identify a previously unrecognized non-secretory intracellular function of WNT2B in impairing endosomal trafficking to inhibit macroautophagy/autophagy, as well as a non-canonical LC3B-II-dependent autophagic secretion mechanism for WNT2B. Specifically, the non-secretory intracellular pool of WNT2B via its conserved middle domain (MD) binds to the spectrin repeat domain (SRD) of WASHC5, competitively displacing WASHC1 and thereby disrupting WASH complex assembly and inhibiting WASHC1-mediated actin polymerization on early endosomes. This disruption impairs endosomal cargo trafficking, including the core autophagy protein ATG9A, leading to defective autophagy initiation and subsequent accumulation of pro-inflammatory and pro-fibrotic factors in fibroblasts. We validated this mechanism in vivo using a TNBS-induced mouse model of chronic colitis. Fibroblast-specific wnt2b deletion restores autophagy, reduces pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion, and ameliorates intestinal fibrosis. Consistently, in Crohn disease (CD) patient tissues, elevated WNT2B in fibrotic regions negatively correlates with autophagy activity, and positively correlates with pro-fibrotic phenotypes, and clinical disease severity. Moreover, we identify a novel LC3B-II-dependent autophagic secretion pathway for WNT2B, which is distinct from the conventional ER-to-Golgi-dependent protein secretion. Collectively, our study delineates a novel non-canonical WNT2B-WASH complex-ATG9A regulatory axis through which WNT2B impairs endosomal trafficking and disrupts autophagy, ultimately amplifying inflammation and fibrosis. This study suggests that WNT2B may serve as a promising therapeutic target for CD and autophagy-associated fibrotic disorders.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; AAV: adeno-associated virus; ACTA2: actin alpha 2, smooth muscle; ARPC2: actin related protein 2/3 complex subunit 2; ATG: autophagy related; CCN3: cellular communication network factor 3; CD: Crohn disease; CK666: 2-fluoro-N-[2-(2-methyl-1H-indol-3-yl)ethyl]benzamide; COL1A1: collagen type I alpha 1 chain; Co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CTNNB1: catenin beta 1; DBcAMP: dibutyryl cyclic adenosine monophosphate; DPT: dermatopontin; EEA1: early endosome antigen 1; EGFR: epidermal growth factor receptor; ELISA: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; ESCRT: endosomal sorting complexes required for transport; EV: extracellular vesicle; FRAP: fluorescence recovery after photobleaching; FL: full length; FZD: frizzled class receptor; GST: glutathione S-transferase; HIF: human intestinal fibroblast; HMGB1: high mobility group box 1; IKBKB: inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase subunit beta; IL6: interleukin 6; LDELS: LC3-dependent EV loading and secretion; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MD: middle domain; MEFs: mouse embryonic fibroblasts; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; MVB: multivesicular body; NFKB: nuclear factor kappa B; NFKBIA: NFKB inhibitor alpha; PDCD6IP: programmed cell death 6 interacting protein; PLA: proximity ligation assay; RELA/p65: RELA proto-oncogene, NF-kB subunit; SAFB: scaffold attachment factor B; SES-CD: Simple Endoscopic Score for Crohn disease; SIM: super-resolution structured illumination microscopy; SMAD3: SMAD family member 3; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; SRD: spectrin repeat domain; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TFRC: transferrin receptor; TGFB1: transforming growth factor beta 1; TGOLN2: trans-golgi network protein 2; TNBS: 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid; TNF: tumor necrosis factor; VCA: Verprolin homology, Central and Acidic; WASHC: WASH complex subunit; WLS: Wnt ligand secretion mediator; WCL: whole cell lysates; WNT: Wnt family member; WT, wild type.
N6-methyladenosine (m6A) is a key epigenetic modification closely associated with reproductive physiology; however, its involvement in circadian-related ovarian dysfunction remains unclear. Female Sprague Dawley rats were exposed continuously to light for 10 weeks (LL group) to induce circadian desynchrony, with controls maintained under standard cycles (DL group). Transcriptomic analysis was performed to identify markedly dysregulated pathways, which were validated via qRT‒PCR, immunoblotting, and KGN cell models. Continuous light exposure induced PCOS-like phenotypes in female rats, including disrupted estrous cycles, polycystic ovarian morphology, and hyperandrogenemia. At the molecular level, constant light disrupted circadian regulation of steroidogenic enzymes, increasing and phase-shifting steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (StAR) and Cytochrome P450 Family 11 Subfamily A Member 1 (Cyp11a1), and elevating but arrhythmically expressing 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 (Hsd3β2). Mechanistically, continuous light upregulated the m6A demethylase fat mass and obesity-associated protein (FTO), which promoted m6A erasure on Nuclear receptor subfamily 1 group D member 1 (NR1D1) mRNA, reducing NR1D1 expression and relieving NR1D1-mediated repression of StAR, thereby promoting androgen biosynthesis and potentially contributing to hyperandrogenemia. Our study demonstrated that FTO-mediated regulation of NR1D1 is associated with alterations in StAR expression and androgen synthesis, providing a mechanistic link between environmental circadian disruption and ovarian steroidogenic imbalance and suggesting a potential molecular target for circadian rhythm-associated ovarian dysfunction.© 2026. The Author(s).
Spi-1 Proto-Oncogene (SPI1) encodes Purine-rich box 1 Transcription Factor (PU.1), a transcription factor of the ETS family that regulates hematopoietic lineage commitment and immune cell differentiation. Alteration of PU.1 dose or ETS domain integrity may interfere with transcriptional programs, which adds to hematopoietic dysregulation and leukemogenesis. Even though changes in SPI1 expression have been associated with acute myeloid leukemia (AML), the structural and regulatory effects of missense mutations at the PU.1 ETS domain have not been entirely studied, and targeting the PU.1 ETS domain by ligands is an area of computational analysis that should be further pursued. To computationally describe deleterious missense variants of SPI1 in terms of structural stability, evolutionary conservation, post-translational modification (PTM) context and interaction networks, and to measure ADMET-mediated molecular docking of cinnamic acid with the PU.1 ETS domain (8EQG) as a potential modulator. Missense nsSNPs were obtained through Ensembl and narrowed down by consensus prediction of pathogenicity (PredictSNP, combining SIFT, PolyPhen, SNAP and PhD-SNP and other tools). InterPro/UniProt was used for domain mapping. SWISS-MODEL was used to produce wild-type and mutant PU.1 versions, which were analyzed on the structural alignment and Cα-Cα displacement parameters in UCSF Chimera (v1.19). The estimation of stability change was carried out with I-Mutant and MUpro. Prediction of PTM sites was done using MusiteDeep and exploration of functional partners was done using STRING. Human, mouse and zebrafish orthologue conservation was measured by means of MAFFT alignment. GEPIA2 was used to compare the expression of SPI1 in AML (TCGA-LAML) and normal tissues (GTEx). AutoDock Vina (grid center 6, -2, -9 A; 20 × 20 × 20 A; 16 exhaustiveness) was used to prepare cinnamic acid and dock it into the PU.1 ETS domain (8EQG), with SwissDock being used for consistency checks. SwissADME and ADMETlab 2.0 were used to predict drug-likeness, pharmacokinetics, and toxicity. Nine missense mutations were routinely considered as deleterious with the majority of them being located in or near the ETS DNA-binding domain. Structural comparisons showed local perturbations of the structure and I189F and H211P yielded the greatest conformational changes between prioritized variants whereas other forms had minimal movements. A predominantly destabilizing trend was supported by stability prediction whereby V241G had the strongest destabilization signal with further destabilizations being predicted in I189F and R259C. PTM mapping revealed several potential regulatory residues (phosphorylation, acetylation, ubiquitination, and methylation), which indicated that there could be crosstalk between the sequence variation and the transcriptional regulation. The SPI1 was placed in a central hematopoietic transcriptional module (containing RUNX1, CEBP members, GATA1 and IRF factors) by the STRING network. The cross-species alignment showed that there was high conservation of a number of the mutation sites, which would support functional constraint at the ETS region. The expression analysis revealed that the level of SPI1 mRNA in AML was significantly elevated compared to normal tissues. Docking also indicated a slight and reproducible interaction of cinnamic acid with the ETS domain (top affinity -4.27 kcal/mol), with a solitary leading polar anchor and supportive hydrophobic interactions, which is akin to interaction between fragments. The ADMET profiling revealed the likelihood of success in the oral drug-likeness and low CYP inhibition liability, as well as signifying the presence of a possible hepatotoxicity signal that needs further confirmation through experiments. Comprehensive computational studies suggest that certain pathogenic variants of SPI1 missense defects, especially in the ETS domain, can result in loss of PU.1 structural stability and regulatory environment, which are in line with the disturbed hematopoietic regulation and AML-related dysregulation. Cinnamic acid demonstrates moderate yet reproducible binding to the PU.1 ETS domain and has an overall favorable developability profile, which indicates that it is better considered as a starting scaffold, as opposed to an active inhibitor. The results give a logical basis of focused biochemical validation and structure-directed optimization of ETS domain modulators in hematologic disease settings.
Obesity, a major health issue linked to metabolic disorders, is driven by multiple factors, including impaired leptin signaling, particularly in the Janus kinase 2 (JAK2)/Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) pathway. This study investigated the impact of aldehyde-containing food additives on leptin receptor activated signaling in cells. We examined the effects of 39 different aldehyde-containing compounds, commonly used in food additives, on leptin-induced STAT3 transcriptional activity through a reporter gene assay. Three aldehydes, i.e., 2-pyrrolecarboxaldehyde, o-anisaldehyde, and piperonal were found to reduce leptin-induced STAT3 transcriptional activity in a concentration-dependent manner without affecting cell viability. These additives did not alter conformational changes of the leptin receptor, STAT3 phosphorylation, or its nuclear translocation, nor did they induce endoplasmic reticulum stress. These additives likely affect a downstream step in leptin signaling, specifically transcriptional regulation by STAT3, without disrupting early receptor signaling events. These finding suggest that some aldehyde-based food additives may contribute to leptin resistance and potentially to the development of obesity.Copyright © 2026 Shibuya, Yoshida, Tsuge, Hamasaki, Kuriya, Nakagawa, Sugiyama, Miyamoto, Shimamoto, Jockers, Dam and Hosoi.
Adenine-thymine (AT)-rich interactive domain-containing protein 5a (Arid5a) is an RNA-binding protein (RBP) that post-transcriptionally stabilizes mRNAs encoding proinflammatory mediators, including Interleukin-6 (IL-6), thereby amplifying inflammation. However, structural basis and regulatory mechanisms of Arid5a function remain poorly defined. In this study, we identified and characterized a conserved allosteric site within the ARID domain that regulates Arid5a-mediated mRNA stabilization. Using integrative in silico modeling and in vitro assays, 2 picolinamide-based inhibitors, NFP1 and NFP2, were designed to specifically engage the allosteric site constituent residues. Mutational and functional analyses revealed Tyr88 and Val91 as key regulatory elements within the allosteric site, essential for transmitting conformational regulation upon ligand engagement. Pharmacological inhibition of the allosteric site disrupted Arid5a interaction with target RNA stem-loop structure, reduced stability of Il6 mRNA, and attenuated inflammatory responses in Lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated macrophages. Furthermore, Arid5a inhibitors reduced the stability of other target mRNAs, including Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (Stat3) and OX40, in polarized T helper 17 (Th17) cells. In a murine model of LPS-induced septic shock, treatment with NFP1 or NFP2 significantly improved survival, reduced clinical severity, and mitigated tissue damage in vital organs. These findings identify a new mechanism regulating Arid5a activity and present Arid5a allosteric inhibition as a promising therapeutic strategy for managing systemic inflammation including sepsis.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) is a pivotal oncogenic driver in multiple myeloma (MM), and its constitutive activation promotes malignant plasma cell proliferation, survival, and drug resistance in the bone marrow microenvironment. Despite therapeutic advances, MM remains incurable due to persistent STAT3-driven tumorigenesis and the resilience of MM stem cells. We investigated the therapeutic potential of napabucasin (BBI608), a novel STAT3 inhibitor, in MM. Our data demonstrated that BBI608 potently suppressed MM cell proliferation in vitro and in vivo, while significantly impairing the clonogenic potential and inducing robust apoptosis. Mechanistically, BBI608 exhibited dual efficacy by targeting bulk tumor cells and eradicating the stem-like compartment of MM cells, thereby addressing a critical therapeutic challenge. Moreover, we revealed that BBI608 triggered immunogenic cell death (ICD) via the activation of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and the unfolded protein response (UPR), which subsequently enhanced T-cell-mediated anti-tumor immunity. Our findings highlight STAT3 inhibition as a promising strategy to simultaneously eradicate MM cells, target stem cell reservoirs, and harness anti-tumor immunity, providing a robust rationale for the clinical translation of BBI608 in MM therapy.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health LLC., on behalf of the Chinese Medical Association (CMA) and Institute of Hematology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College (IHCAMS).
This study aimed to investigate the role of the extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs) signaling pathway in orthodontic force-induced mechanotransduction and osteogenic differentiation, and explore its potential crosstalk with signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3), whose regulatory mechanism remains unclear.In vitro, MC3T3-E1 preosteoblasts were exposed to cyclic tensile strain (2000 μstrain, 0.5 Hz, 4 h) with or without the specific ERKs inhibitor SCH772984. In vivo, a mouse orthodontic tooth movement (OTM) model was established with 4g force, and SCH772984 was locally injected into periodontal tissues. Pathway protein expression, osteogenic marker levels, tooth movement distance, and bone microarchitecture were analyzed.Mechanical strain significantly activated ERKs and STAT3 phosphorylation and upregulated key osteogenic markers (Runx2, OSX, OPN, ALP) in vitro; these effects were inhibited by SCH772984 except for COL1. In vivo, orthodontic force-induced alveolar bone remodeling and OTM, with osteogenic markers predominantly elevated on the tension side. SCH772984 treatment suppressed ERKs activation and reduced tooth movement by ~40% (all P<0.05).The ERKs pathway is a critical mediator of orthodontic force-induced alveolar bone remodeling and OTM, functioning partially through STAT3. These findings establish the ERKs/STAT3 axis as a promising therapeutic target for accelerating orthodontic treatment.Copyright © 2026 by Mutaz B. Habal, MD.
Information regarding the signaling axis involving triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 1 (TREM-1) and its downstream mediator, signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3), remains limited in ischemic stroke. We investigated the plasma levels of TREM-1 in patients with ischemic stroke and compared to controls. Second, we investigated the potential correlation between plasma TREM-1 levels and STAT3 expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and explored their associations with stroke severity and functional outcomes.In an observational case-control study, plasma and PBMCs from participants were collected to measure TREM-1 and STAT3 expression levels. The National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) at admission, day 7, and 1 and 3 months, and the modified Rankin Scale (mRS) at 3 months post-discharge were assessed. Plasma TREM-1 levels and STAT3 expression were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), respectively. The Inflammation-Related Principal Component Score (IRPCS) was examined for its association with 3-month functional outcome.TREM-1 and STAT3 were significantly elevated in acute ischemic stroke (AIS) patients (p < 0.05, p < 0.0001) and positively correlated (ρ = 0.432, p < 0.0001). Both biomarkers correlated with the NIHSS at 1 and 3 months and mRS at 3 months (all p < 0.05). The composite IRPCS showed the strongest association with poor 3-month functional outcome among the tested biomarkers (OR = 2.84, 95% CI: 1.32-6.12, p = 0.008).Plasma TREM-1 levels were positively correlated with STAT3 expression. The TREM-1-STAT3 axis was associated with stroke severity and 3-month functional outcome in AIS patients. These findings should be regarded as exploratory and require validation in larger cohorts.© 2026 The Author(s). Brain and Behavior published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) has been an anti-cancer protein target for three decades due to its over-activation in various cancers; however, direct STAT3 inhibitors have not reached the market. In this study, a series of novel hydrazone derivatives were designed, synthesized, and characterized. The most promising compound P42 was found to selectively target the STAT3 SH2 domain over the DNA-binding domain, as suggested by the results from fluorescence polarization assays. The GI50 values after 72 h of P42 treatment were determined to be 0.85-5 μM in STAT3-overexpressing pancreatic and colorectal cancer cell lines harboring KRAS mutations (MIA PaCa-2, DLD-1 and HCT 116). Western blot analyses showed that P42 significantly inhibited phosphorylated STAT3 levels without affecting total STAT3 and its upstream kinases JAK2 and SRC. P42 demonstrated significant autophagy-associated cell death rather than apoptosis or necrosis in flow cytometry analyses, with increases in LC3II/I ratios and decreases in p62 levels. Cancer stemness potential was significantly abrogated with P42 as shown in colony formation assay and decreases in epithelial-mesenchymal transition/stemness markers SNAIL and ZEB1 levels. Molecular docking further supported a plausible binding mode within the STAT3 SH2 domain for P42, and SwissADME prediction suggested its favorable drug-likeness properties. Taken together, P42 warrants future anti-cancer drug development.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Elevated phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) expression is observed in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain, yet the precise mechanism through which PTEN contributes to AD progression remains undefined. This study provides the direct evidence that PTEN promotes neurodegeneration by driving neuronal ferroptosis. Using APP/PS1 transgenic mice with hippocampal-specific PTEN knockdown mediated by adeno-associated virus (AAV), we demonstrated that downregulation of PTEN substantially ameliorates cognitive dysfunction and neuronal loss. Mechanistically, PTEN silencing upregulated glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4), inhibiting lipid peroxidation and ferroptosis. We identified a dual-signaling framework through which PTEN regulates GPX4 expression. PTEN reduction activates the PI3K/AKT axis, which drives GSK3β phosphorylation and facilitates nuclear translocation of nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2). Concurrently, PTEN knockdown induces phosphorylation and nuclear translocation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3). Both Nrf2 and STAT3 act as transcriptional activators of GPX4, establishing two convergent axes: PTEN/AKT/GSK3β/Nrf2/GPX4 and PTEN/AKT/STAT3/GPX4. These pathways cooperatively upregulate GPX4 expression, thereby attenuating lipid peroxidation and inhibiting ferroptosis. Importantly, PTEN knockdown restored redox homeostasis by bolstering cellular antioxidant defenses. Our findings reveal a novel PTEN-regulated ferroptotic pathway in AD pathogenesis and highlight PTEN as a promising therapeutic target for AD.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
The transition between naive and primed pluripotency is governed by dynamic signaling networks and transcriptional circuits. While the janus kinase (JAK)/signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) pathway is the master driver of naive pluripotency, the intrinsic negative feedback mechanisms that restrict its activation in primed epiblast stem cells (EpiSCs) remain incompletely defined. This study aimed to characterize the functional role of Suppressor of Cytokine Signaling 3 (SOCS3) in the primed-to-naive pluripotency transition.CRISPR (Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats)/Cas9 (CRISPR-associated protein 9) -mediated Socs3 knockout (KO) was generated in mouse EpiSCs, followed by primed-to-naive reprogramming induction in 2i/LIF [LIF (leukemia inhibitory factor), PD0325901 and CHIR99021) culture system. Molecular and phenotypic changes were evaluated via quantative real time PCR (qRT-PCR), Western blot, flow cytometry and immunofluorescence. Multilineage differentiation as-says were performed to verify pluripotency, and the STAT3-specific inhibitor Stattic was used to confirm the pathway dependence of the reprogramming phenotype.Socs3 was highly expressed in naive embryonic stem cells (ESCs) but minimally detected in EpiSCs. Socs3 deletion uncoupled the JAK/STAT3 negative feedback loop, causing sustained STAT3 Tyr705 phosphorylation that drove rapid and successful primed-to-naive conversion. The resulting reprogrammed naive ESCs (rnESCs) reactivated the core naive transcriptional network and acquired multilineage differentiation potential. Socs3 deficiency also delayed exit from naive pluripotency, and Stattic treatment completely abrogated Socs3 KO-mediated reprogramming.SOCS3 acts as a pivotal inducible barrier to the primed-to-naive pluripotency transition. Eliminating SOCS3-mediated negative regulation to sustain STAT3 activation is an effective strategy to overcome stem cell reprogramming barriers, providing a key target for the precise manipulation of pluripotent stem cell (PSC) fate.Copyright © 2026 Lu, Huang, Du, Yang, Liu, Lin and Yang.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42563692 is a review article
Immunotherapeutic strategies for triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) have yielded only modest response rates, severely limiting patients' clinical outcomes. Clarifying the underlying mechanisms to reverse immunotherapy resistance therefore represents a critical unmet need. In this study, we employed the single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-Seq) analysis of human TNBC tissues to identify inositol-trisphosphate 3-kinase B (ITPKB) as a central regulator governing cytotoxic T lymphocyte trafficking into the tumor microenvironment (TME). Ectopic expression of ITPKB robustly enhanced the secretion of C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 9 (CXCL9), a critical chemokine required for effective anti-tumor immune responses. Mechanistically, elevated ITPKB activity accelerated the conversion of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) to inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate (IP4), thereby dampening IP3-driven endoplasmic reticulum (ER) calcium release. Attenuated intracellular calcium ions (Ca2 +) flux, in turn, promoted the recruitment of signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) and nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) to CXCL9 promoter, driving robust CXCL9 transcription. In addition, utilizing a stepwise virtual screening strategy of 3677 compounds, we identified amentoflavone (AMF) as a novel ITPKB agonist-like compound. AMF treatment could stabilize ITPKB by preventing Trim25-mediated K48-linked ubiquitination and degradation. Notably, in 4T1 and EMT6 syngeneic TNBC murine models, ITPKB-overexpressing or AMF administration exhibited markedly enhanced sensitivity to anti-programmed cell death protein 1 (αPD-1) immune checkpoint blockade. Collectively, these results position ITPKB as a therapeutically tractable molecular switch that remodels the tumor immune landscape via Ca2+-dependent transcriptional rewiring. Targeting ITPKB thus represents a promising strategy to overcome immunotherapy resistance and expand the pool of TNBC patients who may benefit from αPD-1-based immunotherapy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Rheumatoid arthritis-associated interstitial lung disease (RA-ILD) is a severe autoimmune complication lacking effective treatments. This study investigates the molecular mechanisms underlying the therapeutic effects of licorice-ginger decoction (GGD) in experimental models relevant to arthritis-associated lung fibrosis. Utilizing network pharmacology, transcriptomic sequencing, and molecular docking analyses, we identified the STAT1/ICAM1/IL-17A signaling pathway as crucial for GGD efficacy. Experimental validation in both cellular and murine models demonstrated that GGD markedly alleviated body weight loss, reduced arthritis severity, and improved pulmonary pathological injury under inflammatory arthritis conditions. Mechanistic analyses revealed direct binding of Kae and QR to STAT1/ICAM1, leading to IL-17A inhibition and mitigation of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and fibroblast activation. Notably, overexpression of STAT1 attenuated the therapeutic effects of GGD. This study provides mechanistic insights into the anti-inflammatory and antifibrotic effects of GGD in experimental models relevant to arthritis-associated lung fibrosis and offers a potential framework for future mechanistic studies and translational research of classical Chinese formulations.© 2026 the Australian and New Zealand Society for Immunology, Inc.
Germline gain-of-function (GOF) mutations in the signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) gene cause a dominantly inherited inborn error of immunity (IEI) characterized by chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis, autoimmunity, severe opportunistic infections and an increased risk of malignancy. Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) transplantation (HSCT) is curative but is associated with increased risk of morbidity and mortality in STAT1 GOF patients compared to other IEI. To develop a curative, autologous alternative to HSCT, we evaluated gene editing strategies in STAT1 GOF model cell lines, primary T cells, and patient-derived HSCs. Universal and mutation-specific strategies using CRISPR/Cas-mediated homology-directed repair (HDR) were limited by low efficacy (<25%), poor viability, and a lack of allele-specificity. In contrast, adenine base editing corrected the recurrent and highly pathogenic p.T385M mutation with upwards of 90% efficiency in patient T cells and HSCs without significant unintended on- or off-target genomic aberrations. Gene editing functionally restored total STAT1 expression (p<0.0217), STAT1 phosphorylation (p<0.0056), interferon-stimulated gene expression (OAS1; p=0.0005) and improved IL-17 production (p<0.0001). Edited HSCs retained multilineage differentiation capacity and sustained engraftment with persistence of the corrected allele at 16 weeks in humanized immunodeficient mice. These data demonstrate efficient and precise correction of STAT1 GOF mutations by base editing, with maintenance of the correction through long-term engraftment in vivo. This represents the first application of gene editing to correct a dominant gain-of-function mutation causing immunodeficiency, with potential applicability to other genetic disorders associated with heterozygous and gain-of-function mutations.Copyright © 2026 American Society of Hematology.
Chronic pain is sustained by complex neuroimmune interplay within the spinal cord, yet how astrocytes constrain immune amplification remains poorly understood. Here we identified Src-homology 2 domain-containing protein tyrosine phosphatase-1 (SHP1; encoded by Ptpn6) as a key suppressor of spinal neuroinflammation and nociceptive hypersensitivity. Astrocyte-specific SHP1 deletion in the spinal dorsal horn induced profound astrocytic morphological changes, increased C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 10 (CXCL10) expression, disrupted blood-brain barrier (BBB) integrity, and facilitated the infiltration of activated T lymphocytes into the spinal parenchyma. These infiltrating T cells promoted microglial activation, enhanced excitatory synaptic transmission, increased the excitability of somatostatin (SOM)-positive neurons, and ultimately triggered nociceptive hypersensitivity. Mechanistically, T cell recruitment was governed by an SHP1-dependent regulatory circuit, in which SHP1-mediated Signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) dephosphorylation restrained Cxcl10 transcription. Blocking the STAT1-CXCL10-CXCR3 signaling axis alleviated T cell infiltration and nociceptive hypersensitivity. Notably, we found that during the development of neuropathic pain, spinal SHP1 expression was significantly downregulated, accompanied by upregulation of CXCL10. Overexpression of SHP1 in astrocytes markedly attenuated astrocyte activation and alleviated mechanical allodynia induced by spared nerve injury (SNI). Collectively, our findings revealed an astrocyte-defined immune checkpoint that restrains neuroinflammatory escalation and pain persistence, emphasizing SHP1 as a promising therapeutic target for chronic pain.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Based on a strategy integrating topological feature identification and path priority assessment, this study systematically explored the efficacy targets and differentiated mechanisms of Colquhounia Root Tablets(CRT) in the &quot;homotherapy for heteropathy&quot; of rheumatoid arthritis(RA) and diabetic kidney disease(DKD). Firstly, candidate targets of CRT and disease-specific genes were retrieved by integrating multi-source databases and transcriptomic data. Protein-protein interaction(PPI) networks were constructed to identify key targets shared by or specific to RA and DKD via topological feature identification. Subsequently, a path priority assessment was introduced to calculate the average shortest path(ASP) values from drug targets to various pathological segments, thereby quantifying intervention efficacy to lock onto &quot;dominant pharmacodynamic links&quot;. The predicted key functional axes were validated through animal experiments. The results indicated that the core targets of CRT for both diseases involved shared pathways such as phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase(PI3K)-protein kinase B(Akt), tumor necrosis factor(TNF), and glycolysis/gluconeogenesis. Notably, path priority assessment revealed distinct dominant intervention links: for RA, CRT preferentially targeted &quot;fibroblast-like synoviocyte(FLS) activation and invasion&quot;(ASP=2.361), which mapped to the TNF-p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase(p38)-LIM domain kinase 1(LIMK1)-Cofilin1 axis to regulate cytoskeleton remodeling; for DKD, the dominant link was &quot;filtration barrier injury and interstitial fibrosis&quot;(ASP=2.295), converging on the TNF-poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 1(PARP1)-signal transducer and activator of transcription 1(STAT1)-matrix metallopeptidase 9(MMP9) axis to mediate cellular senescence and senescence-associated secretory phenotype(SASP) secretion. Animal experiments confirmed that CRT significantly alleviated RA synovial invasion and DKD renal fibrosis by inhibiting these two differentiated signaling axes, respectively. By employing topological feature identification and path priority assessment, this study elucidates the scientific connotation of &quot;homotherapy for heteropathy&quot; of RA and DKD with CRT through both shared network regulation and intervention in disease-specific differential signaling axes associated with pharmacodynamic links.
ObjectiveTo screen potential host targets and investigate the molecular mechanism by which berberine regulates host responses to respiratory syncytial virus infection.MethodsThe structure and potential targets of berberine were retrieved and predicted using the PubChem, Swiss Target Prediction, and Pharm Mapper databases. Respiratory syncytial virus-related targets were screened from the GeneCards and Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man databases. Intersection targets were obtained using Venny 2.1.0. A protein-protein interaction network of the intersection targets was constructed using the Search Tool for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes/Proteins, and core targets were screened by performing topological analysis using Cytoscape. Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment analyses were performed using the Database for Annotation, Visualization and Integrated Discovery. Molecular docking between berberine and the core targets was conducted using PyMol and AutoDock.ResultsIn total, 299 berberine targets and 1196 respiratory syncytial virus targets were obtained, with 72 intersecting targets. Protein-protein interaction analysis identified 6 core targets, including epidermal growth factor receptor, Src, heat shock protein 90-alpha, albumin, signal transducer and activator of transcription 1, and caspase-3. Gene Ontology enrichment analysis indicated that the intersecting targets were involved in biological processes such as the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/protein kinase B signaling pathway, localized in cellular components including cytosol, and possessed molecular functions such as protein kinase activity. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes analysis enriched 145 signaling pathways. Molecular docking results showed that the binding energies of berberine to the 8 core targets were all lower than -5 kcal/mol, presenting strong binding affinity.ConclusionThrough network pharmacology and molecular docking, this study preliminarily suggests that berberine targets epidermal growth factor receptor, Src, heat shock protein 90-alpha, albumin, signal transducer and activator of transcription 1, and caspase-3 and regulates cell proliferation, inflammatory response, antiviral immunity, and cell apoptosis to modulate host response to respiratory syncytial virus infection. This study represents a purely bioinformatics prediction research, and its findings potentially provide a preliminary theoretical basis for elucidating the mechanism by which berberine regulates respiratory syncytial virus infection.
Neuroinflammation plays an important role in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease, with microglial overactivation contributing to dopaminergic neuronal loss. Recent studies indicate that α7 nicotinic acetylcholine (nACh) receptors modulate the inflammatory responses of immune cells. Although α7 nACh receptors are expressed in microglia, their precise role in microglial activation is unclear. In this study, we determined whether α7 nACh receptor stimulation could protect dopaminergic neurons from inflammation-induced injury. Nicotine and PNU-120596, an α7 nACh receptor positive allosteric modulator, significantly attenuated dopaminergic neurotoxicity in primary mesencephalic cultures treated with inflammatory stimuli. However, only PNU-120596 inhibited microglial activation, and this effect was not reversed following treatment with an α7 nACh receptor antagonist, suggesting a mechanism distinct from the classical α7 nACh receptor-mediated signaling. PNU-120596 suppressed inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) expression and signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) phosphorylation, but did not alter the nuclear translocation of nuclear factor-κB. Moreover, in BV2 cells, which lack detectable full-length α7 nACh receptor mRNA, PNU-120596 also suppressed iNOS expression and STAT1 phosphorylation. These results suggest that PNU-120596 exerts anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective effects independently of canonical pathways that are not dependent on classical α7 nACh receptor-mediated signaling.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
While standard high fat diets cause hyperphagia and obesity in mice, high fat-low carbohydrate ketogenic diets (KDs) reduce food intake and body weight. Because the basis for this difference is still unclear, we systematically altered the macronutrient content of a standard KD and found that feeding C57BL/6J (B6J) mice a KD with 5% protein resulted in hypophagia, weight loss, and hypoglycemia, whereas the same diet with 10% protein led to increased adiposity and glucose intolerance. However, these effects were strain-dependent as C57BL/6NJ (B6NJ) weighed similar amounts on the two diets leading us to investigate the molecular mechanisms. When fed the KD-5% diet, B6J but not B6NJ mice showed increased levels of two anorexigenic factors, GDF15 and LCN2, and loss of function of either blunted the weight loss of B6J mice fed the diet. B6J mice harbor mutations in Nnt (Nicotinamide nucleotide transhydrogenase) and Nlrp12 (NLR family pyrin domain containing 12), both of which are wildtype in B6NJ mice. B6J mice fed the KD-5% diet showed the RNA signature of oxidative and integrated stress responses (ISR) and restoring NNT function in liver reduced the levels of GDF15. RNA-seq also revealed that B6J but not B6NJ mice had the RNA signature for hepatic inflammation and a knockout of Nlrp12 led B6NJ mice to lose weight on the KD-5% diet with increased levels of LCN2. Suppression of oxidative stress with N-acetylcysteine (NAC) reduced expression of both GDF15 and LCN2 and prevented the weight loss associated with the KD-5% protein diet in B6J mice, whereas inhibition of the integrated stress response with ISRIB only attenuated the GDF15 axis. Collectively, these findings explain why B6J mice lose weight on a ketogenic diet and reveal a critical interplay between macronutrient composition and genetic background leading to increased levels of GDF15 and LCN2 to induce hypophagia. Finally, these data suggest that the response to different diets among humans might be similarly variable based on genetic variation and macronutrient composition, suggesting the possible need for personalized dietary interventions.
Global warming and plastic pollution constitute interconnected environmental threats. However, their combined neurotoxic effects, particularly in the context of climate change-driven temperature rise, remain unexplored, posing a critical knowledge gap for environmental health risk assessment. To address this gap, we developed a mouse model subjected to coexposure to heat stress (36 °C, 4 h/day) and well-characterized polystyrene nanoplastics (PS-NPs, 60 nm, 10 mg/kg/day) for 30 consecutive days. Multidisciplinary approaches, including behavioral testing, histopathological analysis and molecular profiling, were employed to assess cognitive dysfunction and its underlying mechanisms. Compared with the single-exposure groups, coexposure induced pronounced cognitive deficits in mice, which were concomitant with hippocampal neurodegeneration, bloodbrain barrier (BBB) compromise, and exacerbated hippocampal oxidative stress. Transcriptomic profiling and subsequent validation revealed a novel role for oxidative stress-induced NLR family pyrin domain containing 6 (NLRP6) inflammasome activation in driving microglial pyroptosis, which exacerbates neuroinflammation through a feedforward loop. The administration of the antioxidant N-acetylcysteine (NAC) attenuated these pathological alterations by suppressing oxidative damage, thereby rescuing cognitive performance. This study elucidates a novel mechanism whereby heat stress and PS-NP coexposure synergistically disrupt neurological homeostasis via redox-sensitive inflammatory pathways, offering critical insights for the development of preventive strategies against combined environmental neurotoxicity.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Atg8-family proteins are autophagosome-associated proteins and play important roles in macroautophagy/autophagy, a conserved process for degrading defective or excessive cellular components. Post-translational modifications of mammalian Atg8-family proteins, including phosphorylation, regulate multiple steps in the autophagic process. In this context, several Atg8-family protein-associated kinases have been found to regulate autophagy, yet the phosphatases in the dephosphorylation of Atg8-family proteins remain unknown. Here, we report that the heterotrimeric PPP2/PP2A (protein phosphatase 2) is a novel regulator in modulating LC3B dephosphorylation. Mechanistically, we find that PPP2-mediated LC3B dephosphorylation reduces the interaction between LC3B and the mitophagy receptor OPTN, thereby impeding the mitochondrial recruitment of phagophores during PINK1-PRKN/Parkin-mediated mitophagy. Interestingly, we find that overexpression of the β2 isoform of PPP2R2B (protein phosphatase 2 regulatory subunit Bbeta; PPP2R2Bβ2), which mimics the spinocerebellar ataxia type 12 (SCA12) pathological condition, harms neuronal survival by enhancing PPP2-mediated LC3B dephosphorylation and reducing mitochondrial recruitment of phagophores upon mitochondrial damage. Importantly, pharmacological induction of mitophagy by the small molecule compound deferiprone (DFP) relieves PPP2R2Bβ2-mediated neuronal toxicity. Overall, our results not only uncover a mechanism by which protein dephosphorylation negatively regulates mitophagy but also provide insights into the pathogenesis of PPP2R2Bβ2-mediated SCA12.Abbreviations: AO: antimycin A and oligomycin A; DFP: deferiprone; EGFP: enhanced green fluorescent protein; GAPDH: glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; OPTN: optineurin; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; PLA: proximity ligation assay; PPP2: protein phosphatase 2; PPP2CA: protein phosphatase 2 catalytic subunit alpha; PPP2CB: protein phosphatase 2 catalytic subunit beta; PPP2R2Bβ2: protein phosphatase 2 regulatory subunit B beta 2; PRKN/Parkin: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; SCA12: spinocerebellar ataxia type 12; WT: wild type.
To observe the therapeutic effect of sivelestat sodium on acute lung injury and explore its mechanism.Eighty-six patients with acute lung injury admitted from April 2022 to December 2023 were selected as the research objects. According to the principle of randomized control and single-blindness, they were randomly divided into the observation group (43 cases) and the control group (43 cases). The control group was given conventional symptomatic treatment, while the observation group was treated with sivelestat sodium on this basis. The mechanical ventilation, ICU stay, hospital stay, and 28-day mortality were compared between the 2 groups. The differences in pulmonary function, inflammatory factors, oxygenation index (PaO2/FiO2), and respiratory rate (RR) between the 2 groups were detected and compared.The duration of mechanical ventilation, ICU stay, and hospitalization in the observation group were significantly shorter than those in the control group, while there was no difference in 28-day mortality between the 2 groups (P > .05). Before treatment, pulmonary function indexes were compared between the 2 groups (P > .05). On the 5th and 7th days of treatment, the vital capacity and maximum ventilation volume of the 2 groups were significantly increased compared with those before treatment, and the values of pulmonary function indexes in the observation group at the same time point were better than those in the control group (P < .05). Before treatment, the inflammatory factors, PaO2/FiO2, and RR in the 2 groups were compared (P > .05). On the 5th and 7th day after treatment, the tumor necrosis factor-α, interleukin-1β, RR, and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) in the 2 groups were significantly decreased compared with those before treatment, while the NOD-like receptors (NLR) family pyrin domain containing 6 (NLRP6) and PaO2/FiO2 were significantly increased. At the same time, the values of tumor necrosis factor-α, interleukin-1β, ICAM-1, and RR after decreased and NLRP6 and PaO2/FiO2 after increased in the observation group were better than those in the control group (P < .05).Sivelestat sodium can improve lung function, correct PaO2/FiO2, and promote rehabilitation in patients with acute lung injury, which may be related to the regulation of NLRP6, ICAM-1, and other inflammatory factors.Copyright © 2025 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40999994 is a review article
Gastric cancer is the most common primary malignant tumor of the digestive system. Recent studies have shown that targeting tumor cell metabolic reprogramming is a key cancer treatment strategy. NLR family pyrin domain containing 12 (NLRP12) is related to innate immunity, inflammation and tumorigenesis, but its role in the progression of gastric cancer remains unclear. The present study revealed that NLRP12 was highly expressed in gastric cancer tissues and cells, as well as positively correlated with poor patient prognosis and survival. NLRP12 promoted the progression of gastric cancer mainly by promoting the metabolic reprogramming of gastric cancer cells, the expression of histone H3 lysine 18 lactylation (H3K18la) and the stabilization of hexokinase 2 (HK2), a crucial enzyme in glycolysis. In the present study, NLRP12 competes with HK2 for binding to TRIM25, selectively reducing the K63-linked ubiquitination of HK2. Moreover, NLRP12 also exerted a significant cancer-promoting effect in mouse models. In summary, the present study demonstrated that NLRP12 prevents TRIM25 from mediating the K63-linked ubiquitination of HK2, which inhibits HK2 degradation through the autophagosome-lysosome pathway, thereby increasing its protein stability. These changes increase lactic acid production and induce H3K18la, which increases Myc transcription, thereby advancing gastric cancer progression. These findings reveal a novel cancer-promoting mechanism of NLRP12, potentially leading to the identification of new therapeutic targets for gastric cancer treatment.© 2025. The Author(s).
Although significant progressions in antiviral studies of IFNβ have been demonstrated, the role of the proteasome in modulating cross-talk between TBK1-IFNβ signaling and viral replication during viral infection is not fully elucidated. Here, we discover that deficiency of REGγ, a proteasome activator, significantly reduces IFNβ production and increases viral replications in mice, leading to increased mortality in virus infection models. Our mechanistic study indicates that REGγ interacts with and degrades the protein phosphatase subunit Protein Phosphatase 2 Catalytic Subunit Beta (PPP2CB). This degradation disrupts the dephosphorylation of TBK1 and its interaction with IRF3, resulting in the activation of IFNβ-mediated antiviral signaling. In response to viral infection, up-regulation of REGγ in macrophages accelerates the degradation of PPP2CB, which increases the activation of TBK1-IRF3-IFNβ axis and thereby restricts viral replications and pathology. Interestingly, IFNβ enhances REGγ expression in viral infection, forming a positive feedback regulatory loop. In conclusion, our work demonstrates that REGγ is a positive modulator of IFNβ signaling during antiviral response, highlighting that this procedure is regulated via REGγ degradation of PPP2CB and provides a new insight into the coordination between antiviral response and proteasome activity. Thus, REGγ-proteasome activity and phosphatase PPP2CB may be potential targets in host defense against viruses.© 2025. The Author(s).
Dyslipidemia has been extensively documented as a key driver of cardiovascular pathology. Regulating lipid homeostasis holds promise for treating atherosclerosis (AS). Although the protein phosphatase 2 catalytic subunit beta (PPP2CB) is involved in post-transcriptional gene regulation, its role in AS-associated dyslipidemia is not well understood.The study included both human participants and animal models. The following techniques were employed: cell culture, extraction of exosomes, preparation of pooled hyperlipidemic serum (HS), transfection, western blotting, immunofluorescence staining, quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), co-immunoprecipitation, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) uptake assay, biochemical assays, assessment of aortic atherosclerotic lesions, as well as statistical analysis.This study identified a marked upregulation of PPP2CB expression in peripheral blood leukocytes of AS patients, artery plaque of ApoE-/- mice given a high-fat diet, and hepatic cells exposed to hyperlipidemic stimuli. Overexpression of PPP2CB in hepatic cells exacerbated lipid accumulation and low-density lipoprotein uptake, whereas silencing PPP2CB mitigated this effect. Immunofluorescence co-localization and co-immunoprecipitation analysis confirmed a direct interaction between PPP2CB and lectin-like oxidized LDL receptor-1 (LOX-1). Notably, PPP2CB manipulation disrupted hyperlipidemia-induced LOX-1 expression. Additionally, PPP2CB-mediated lipid dysregulation was linked to the activation of the LOX-1/ mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)/ extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) signaling cascade.These results unveil PPP2CB as a novel lipid regulator in the progression of pathological AS and highlight its involvement in signaling regulation during abnormal lipid metabolism. PPP2CB could be considered a promising candidate for biomarker development and therapeutic intervention in AS.© 2025. The Author(s).
The goal of this study was to analyze in depth the importance of the thymosin beta 4 X-linked gene (TMSB4X) in the disease process of gliomas for the prediction of patient prognosis.We explored the expression of TMSB4X by analyzing datasets from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) datasets and the Chinese Glioma Genome Atlas (CGGA). Tumor sample tissues and corresponding paracancerous tissues of glioma patients were collected, and TMSB4X expression in glioma tissues was analyzed using Real-Time PCR to investigate its prognostic significance in glioma patients. In addition, we have plotted the ROC curves for the survival rate, performed univariate and multivariate Cox analyses and constructed nomogram. Differential expression analyses were performed on the basis of median expression levels of the TMSB4X gene, and Intuitive graphical presentation and visualisation of the 403 proteins screened were carried out using the Cytoscape software platform. (version: 3.9.1). The top 50 core genes were then screened using the cyto Hubba algorithm, these genes were analyzed using The Gene Ontology Database (GO) and the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG). TCGA datasets was utilized for Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) to obtain potential NF-κB-related pathways in gliomas.Independent prognostic analyses show that the TMSB4X gene was identified as an independent prognostic indicator for gliomas. In GOKEGG and GSEA analyses, the analyses indicate that TMSB4X may play a crucial role in glioma patients by up-regulating I-kappaB kinase/NF-kappaB signaling. In glioma patients, upregulation of the I-kappaB kinase and NF-kappaB signalling pathways plays a crucial role, which may be linked to CASP1.The findings showed that TMSB4X was identified as an potential independent risk factor in the prognosis of glioma patients, a finding that implies that TMSB4X has the potential to serve as a key biomarker for predicting the prognostic status of glioma patients.© 2025 Li et al.
Human babesiosis is an emerging disease in North America caused by the red blood cell (RBC)-infecting parasite Babesia microti. Despite a rise in clinical cases in recent years, the pathogenesis and host immune response to B. microti infection remain unclear. CD47 is a 'marker of self' transmembrane glycoprotein expressed on cell membranes that inhibits phagocytosis through interactions with macrophage signal-regulatory protein alpha (SIRPα). We posit that disruption of CD47-SIRPα signalling will induce macrophage uptake of Babesia-infected RBCs and reduce parasitaemia in susceptible hosts. To evaluate this, we compared the in vivo clearance of B. microti in CD47 knockout (CD47-/-) mice and wild-type C57BL/6J mice. Our results showed pronounced differences in infection kinetics between the two mouse strains. C57BL/6J mice showed steadily increasing parasitaemia that peaked at an average of 12%, whereas CD47-/- mice exhibited parasitaemia that never exceeded 1.5% throughout infection. Parasitaemia became undetectable by Day 21 in C57BL/6J and by Day 16 in CD47-/- mice, indicating resolution of infection. These results imply that, in the absence of CD47, growth of B. microti is diminished due to more efficient phagocytosis of infected RBCs by macrophages. We propose that CD47-SIRPα signalling plays a key role in the innate response to Babesia and suggest CD47 modulation as a new therapeutic target for the treatment of babesiosis.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Ontorpacept, a recombinant signal regulatory protein alpha (SIRPα)-blocking fusion protein, has antitumour activity by disrupting CD47-SIRPα signalling. This Phase 1/2 study examined ontorpacept with doxorubicin in patients with leiomyosarcoma.Eligible patients were ≥18 years with metastatic or locally advanced high-grade soft-tissue sarcomas (high-grade leiomyosarcoma in Phase 2). In Phase 1, patients received escalating doses of ontorpacept plus doxorubicin. Phase 2 dose expansion evaluated ontorpacept doses 0.2, 1.0, and 2.0 mg/kg plus doxorubicin. The primary endpoints were safety (Phase 1); and objective response rate (ORR) (Phase 1/2).Seventy-six patients were enrolled (Phase 1, n = 9; Phase 2, n = 67). No dose-limiting toxicities occurred in Phase 1. The most common treatment-related adverse events were neutrophil count decreased/neutropenia (grade ≥3 in 66% of patients). In Phase 1, one patient receiving ontorpacept 2.0 mg/kg had a confirmed partial response. In Phase 2, six patients receiving ontorpacept 0.2 mg/kg (ORR, 18.8%; 95% CI, 7.2-36.4) and one patient receiving 2.0 mg/kg (ORR, 4.5%; 95% CI, 0.1-22.8) had confirmed partial responses.This first study of CD47 inhibition with chemotherapy in leiomyosarcomas shows manageable safety, supporting further investigation of ontorpacept dosing and schedule, in combination with doxorubicin and as monotherapy.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Obesity is a major metabolic disorder characterized by excessive lipid accumulation and adipocyte differentiation. The mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 5 (MEK5) signaling pathway has been implicated in diverse cellular processes; however, its role in adipogenesis remains incompletely understood. In this study, we investigated the anti-adipogenic effects of BIX02189, a selective MEK5 inhibitor, using 3T3-L1 adipocytes, human adipose-derived stem cells (hASCs), and zebrafish models. Treatment with BIX02189 significantly reduced lipid accumulation and triglyceride content during adipocyte differentiation in a dose-dependent manner without marked cytotoxicity. BIX02189 effectively suppressed MEK5 phosphorylation and downregulated the expression of key adipogenic transcription factors, including peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPAR-γ) and CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein alpha (C/EBP-α). In addition, BIX02189 decreased the phosphorylation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) and STAT5, as well as the expression of lipogenic markers such as fatty acid synthase (FAS), perilipin A, and leptin. Conversely, BIX02189 enhanced AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) phosphorylation and markedly reduced the protein and mRNA expression of acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC), a key enzyme involved in fatty acid synthesis. Similar anti-adipogenic effects were observed in hASCs. Furthermore, BIX02189 significantly attenuated lipid accumulation in a zebrafish obesity model without affecting body length or causing overt toxicity. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that pharmacological inhibition of MEK5 suppresses adipogenesis and lipid accumulation through regulation of the STAT3/STAT5-PPAR-γ axis and activation of AMPK signaling. These findings provide the first evidence that MEK5 inhibition exerts anti-adipogenic effects in adipocytes and zebrafish, highlighting the MEK5 signaling pathway as a previously unrecognized regulator of adipogenesis and lipid metabolism.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42500710 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42494867 is a review article
BR serine/threonine kinase 2 (BRSK2) plays critical roles in neuronal polarization, cell cycle progression, and glucose-stimulated insulin secretion. However, its function in HCC remains unknown. Through bioinformatics analysis of public databases, we identified BRSK2 as a PCD-related gene with potential clinical diagnostic value in HCC. Functionally, BRSK2 knockdown significantly suppressed the proliferation, migration, and invasion of HCC cells and promoted apoptosis in vitro, as well as inhibited tumor growth in a xenograft mouse model in vivo. Mechanistically, we found that BRSK2 is associated with the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway, and western blot analysis confirmed that BRSK2 silencing attenuates PI3K/AKT activation in HCC cells. Furthermore, immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry (IP-MS) analysis revealed that the elevated expression of BRSK2 in HCC is associated with post-translational regulation. Tripartite Motif Containing 28 (TRIM28) was identified as a BRSK2-interacting protein that upregulates BRSK2 protein levels. In vitro ubiquitination assays demonstrated that TRIM28 suppresses BRSK2 ubiquitination, leading to its accumulation in HCC cells. Finally, rescue experiments showed that BRSK2 silencing abrogates TRIM28 overexpression-induced enhancement of HCC cell proliferation, PI3K/AKT/mTOR activation, and resistance to apoptosis. Collectively, these findings uncover that TRIM28 prevents ubiquitin-proteasomal degradation of BRSK2, thereby enhancing its protein stability and activating the PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling pathway to promote HCC progression.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
The rapid expansion of plasma proteomic data and protein quantitative trait loci (pQTLs) provides an opportunity to identify genes that confer disease risk through their effect on plasma protein abundance. We conducted an Alzheimer's disease (AD) proteome-wide association study (PWAS) integrating publicly available plasma cis-pQTL data (1348 European American and 1385 African American genetically determined protein models) with AD dementia GWAS summary statistics. Whereas the African American PWAS identified one candidate [apolipoprotein E (APOE)] and multiple suggestive genes, the European American PWAS identified 18 genes with putative causal relationships with AD through cis regulation of plasma protein abundance. Thirteen of these candidate genes were additionally supported by colocalization and complementary causal-inference analyses such as summary data-based Mendelian randomization. Four of these proteins were not previously detected in AD GWAS [complement decay-accelerating factor (CD55), leukocyte immunoglobulin-like receptor B1 (LILRB1), scavenger receptor class A member 5 (SCARA5), and signal regulatory protein alpha (SIRPA)]. A subset of candidate gene-associated proteins was associated with 8- and 20-year dementia risk, markers of AD pathology, and a CSF proteomic signature enriched for immune and metabolic processes. Putative causal proteins were enriched for adaptive (lymphocyte-mediated) immunity and, compared with GWAS candidates, showed less enrichment for synaptic and amyloid regulatory processes. LILRB1 and SIRPA, two immunoregulatory proteins not previously implicated in AD GWAS, showed the strongest mechanistic link to AD in the European American PWAS. These results shed additional light on AD etiology and enable the prioritization of potential AD therapeutic targets in peripheral circulation.
Enhancing myeloid effector cell recruitment may improve immunotherapy by monoclonal antibodies, including those against acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). To assess the expression of target antigens in B-cell ALL (B-ALL), we compared mRNA profiling of 559 patient leukemia samples across 18 molecular subtypes with that of representative cell lines. The latter served as target cells to compare human immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1) or IgA2 variants against CD19, CD20, or CD38 in antibody-dependent cellular phagocytosis (ADCP) by macrophages and antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC) by polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMN). Interestingly, antibodies against broadly expressed CD19 were negligibly effective in mediating ADCP or ADCC. Antibodies against CD20 or CD38, the former variably expressed across subtypes, triggered ADCP by macrophages both as IgG1 and IgA2. However, PMN-mediated ADCC against CD20 or CD38 was only observed with IgA2 variants but not with respective IgG1 antibodies. Blocking the myeloid checkpoint CD47/signal regulatory protein α (SIRPα) enhanced ADCP and ADCC by IgA2 antibodies against CD20 and CD38 but not CD19. Both CD47 and its enzymatic modifier glutaminyl-peptide cyclotransferase-like protein (QPCTL), which can be inhibited by small molecules, were broadly expressed across B-ALL subtypes. QPCTL catalyzes the formation of an N-terminal pyroglutamic acid on CD47, which is directly involved in CD47/SIRPα interactions as shown by novel engineered CD47 variants. Importantly, the combination of anti-CD38 IgA2 and CD47 blockade was effective against xenografted B-ALL in human FcαRI (CD89) transgenic NXG mice. Together, these studies support combining anti-CD38 IgA2 with CD47 interference to improve myeloid effector cell recruitment for B-ALL immunotherapy.© 2026 American Society of Hematology. Published by Elsevier Inc. Licensed under Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International (CC BY-NC-ND 4.0), permitting only noncommercial, nonderivative use with attribution. All other rights reserved.
Bispecific antibodies (BsAbs) represent a growing class of cancer immunotherapeutics, yet their wider adoption remains limited by complex recombinant production and limited manufacturing efficiency. Here, we report a chemically assembled macrophage-engaging glypican-3 × signal regulatory protein-α (SIRP-α) bispecific antibody for the treatment of liver cancer. Using our bifunctional linker, glypican-3-binding peptide dimers were conjugated to a native anti-SIRP-α IgG via a rapid one-pot, two-step process, yielding a novel dendritic bispecific antibody (dBsAb). Such a construct simultaneously targets glypican-3-positive hepatocellular carcinoma cells and blocks the CD47-SIRP-α axis, thereby promoting macrophage engagement and phagocytosis. In vitro studies showed substantially enhanced macrophage adhesion and tumor cell clearance compared with the monoclonal antibody. In an in vivo experiment, dBsAb demonstrated a 68% reduction in tumor growth, with increased macrophage infiltration, M1 polarization, and elevated antigen presentation without observable systemic toxicity. This chemical assembly approach offers a practical alternative to recombinant methods for constructing bispecific antibodies and may facilitate the development of macrophage-directed immunotherapies.© 2026 The Author(s). MedComm published by Sichuan International Medical Exchange & Promotion Association (SCIMEA) and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Notwithstanding progress in chemotherapy, cancer recurrence resulting from metastasis continues to be a significant challenge. Consequently, targeting the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) has emerged as a viable approach to impede metastasis and enhance therapy success. In colorectal cancer, current initiatives focus on discovering new agents that are both efficacious and less harmful to normal cells. Plant-derived flavonoids and metal-based compounds exhibit significant medicinal potential. This research examined the anticancer efficacy of a Cu(II)-flavonoid complex comprising quercetin and 1,10-phenanthroline ligands in colorectal cancer cell lines HCT-116 and HT-29. The sulforhodamine B (SRB) assay assessed cell viability, yielding IC₅₀ values of 3.19 μM for HCT-116 and 1.81 μM for HT-29 after 48 h, but the individual ligands demonstrated no similar cytotoxicity. The compound exhibited lower cytotoxicity to normal colon cells (CCD-18Co) than toward colorectal cancer cells (HCT-116 and HT-29). Apoptosis induction was verified with Hoechst 33342, Annexin-V-FITC, and propidium Iodide staining, supplemented by M30-antigen ELISA, and further corroborated by the pan-caspase inhibitor Z-VAD-FMK and elevated levels of apoptotic protein markers such as cleaved caspase-8 and parp-1. Flow cytometry revealed G₀/G₁ phase arrest, indicating caspase-dependent apoptotic cell death. The compound also impeded epithelial-mesenchymal transition, as demonstrated by a dose-dependent reduction in migration and invasion in wound healing and Matrigel invasion experiments. Western blot analysis revealed elevated levels of E-cadherin and reduced levels of N-cadherin, vimentin, and snail. The Cu(II)-flavonoid combination demonstrates significant anti-proliferative, pro-apoptotic, and anti-metastatic properties in colorectal cancer cells, while exhibiting lower cytotoxic effects in normal colon cells. This underscores its potential as a viable candidate for additional molecular and in vivo assessment of the complex in colorectal cancer.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Cisplatin, a widely used anticancer agent, has adverse effects on normal tissues during cancer treatment. This study aimed to investigate the use of harmine, a plant β-carboline alkaloid, against pathways associated with ROS-induced apoptosis in the livers of mice administered with cisplatin.Twenty-four male Balb/c mice were randomly assigned to four groups (n = 6): (1) control group received daily intraperitoneal injections of saline for four days, (2) harmine group (15 mg/kg, intraperitoneally, daily for 4 days), (3) cisplatin group (5.5 mg/kg, intraperitoneally, one injection), and (4) cisplatin + harmine co-administration group. After sacrificing the animals under deep anesthesia, blood and liver tissue samples were collected for biochemical and molecular experiments.Cisplatin significantly elevated histopathological criteria (both qualitative and quantitative), levels of enzyme activity, malondialdehyde, nitric oxide, ROS, and apoptosis, and decreased glutathione, superoxide dismutase, and total antioxidant capacity. However, these factors were improved in the co-administration group compared to the cisplatin group. Furthermore, cisplatin treatment significantly upregulated caspase-8, BAX, p53, caspase-3, TNF-α, and NF-κB gene expression, while downregulating BCL-2. Co-administration with harmine led to significant changes in gene expression relative to the cisplatin group. Cisplatin notably increased protein levels of caspase-8, BAX, and TNF-α, but these levels were significantly reduced in the co-treatment group.Harmine effectively ameliorates cisplatin-induced hepatitis by suppressing ROS production, thereby reducing intrinsic, extrinsic, and inflammation-induced apoptosis. These findings suggest that the antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties of Harmine play a key role in its hepatoprotective actions.Copyright: © 2026 Research in Pharmaceutical Sciences.
The toxic mechanisms of norgestrel (NGT), an emerging marine pollutant, on the sperm from externally fertilized invertebrates remain elusive. This study employed an integrated physiological and multi-omics framework to elucidate how NGT (10 and 1000 ng/L) disrupts acrosome reaction (AR) signaling machinery, thereby impairing the functional integrity of Pacific oyster (Crassostrea gigas, also known as Magallana gigas) sperm. Exposure to NGT triggered a significant, dose-dependent premature AR, characterized by elevated acrosin activity and a loss of acrosomal integrity. Multi-omics integration supports a model in which this premature exocytosis is linked to signaling disturbances, including disruption of calcium signaling and reduced transcript abundance of calmodulin (CaM) and the primary recognition protein zonadhesin (Zan). This signaling interference induced an premature AR, subsequently driving a cascade of bioenergetic and structural failures. At the mitochondrial level, NGT induced abnormal mitochondrial permeability transition pore (mPTP) opening and elevated the transcript levels of antioxidant defense genes (e.g., peroxiredoxin-5, PRDX5). These alterations indicate the occurrence of mitochondrial collapse. Concurrently, scanning electron microscopy verified localized plasma membrane wrinkling and pore formation in sperm. In addition, NGT exposure decreased the transcript abundance of cytoskeleton-related genes, including solute carrier family 26 member 6 (SLC26A6), actin (ACT), and tubulin polymerization promoting protein family member 3 (TPPP3). These molecular changes further disrupted membrane phospholipid homeostasis, as represented by altered glycerophospholipid metabolism. At the same time, cumulative cellular stress was associated with decreased transcript abundance of cytoprotective factors (e.g., baculoviral IAP repeat-containing proteins, birc2) and changes in apoptosis-related genes consistent with activation of a caspase-8-mediated apoptotic programme. In conclusion, NGT, as a representative synthetic progestin, exerts reproductive toxicity by interfering with signaling mediators to induce premature AR, which subsequently exhausts metabolic energy and triggers plasma membrane impairment. These findings provide a critical mechanistic basis for the aquatic ecological risk assessment of synthetic progestins.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Colorectal cancer remains a leading cause of cancer-related death, and there is an urgent need for new therapies that can specifically induce tumor cell apoptosis. Plant polyphenols have emerged as promising alternatives for cancer treatment. Flourensia cernua and F. retinophylla are polyphenol-rich plants native to northern Mexico, known for their use in traditional medicine, and recently reported to have anti-inflammatory and antimicrobial properties; however, their anticancer effects remain poorly studied. This study aimed to evaluate the ability of polyphenolic extracts from F. cernua and F. retinophylla to induce apoptosis in HT-29 human colon adenocarcinoma cells in vitro and to explore the mechanisms of cell death triggered by these extracts. Polyphenolic extracts were prepared from dried leaves using ethanol and analyzed for antioxidant activity and polyphenolic composition. HT-29 cells were treated with different concentrations, and cytotoxicity was measured by MTT assay. Apoptosis was analyzed through intrinsic and extrinsic pathways, caspase activity, and detection of apoptosis-related proteins via Western blot and antibody array. Both Flourensia extracts are rich in polyphenols and exhibit high antioxidant capacity. Treatment with the extracts caused dose-dependent growth inhibition of HT-29 cells. F. cernua extract triggered cytochrome c and SMAC release, indicating activation of the intrinsic pathway, and also upregulated death receptor proteins and caspase-8, indicating engagement of the extrinsic pathway. F. retinophylla produced a weaker response, mainly modulating intrinsic-pathway markers. Both extracts also increased caspase-3 levels, consistent with engagement of apoptotic signaling. These findings demonstrate the potential of Flourensia-derived extracts as alternative anticancer agents with apoptosis-inducing potential in human colon adenocarcinoma cells.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Melanoma remains one of the most aggressive forms of skin cancer, with limited therapeutic options and significant treatment-related toxicity. In this study, we evaluated the biological activity of a novel dibenzoylmethane derivative, IDPIP, focusing on its cytotoxic, anti-migratory, and pro-apoptotic effects in melanoma cells. IDPIP exhibited pronounced and selective cytotoxicity in murine and human melanoma cell lines, with significantly lower toxicity to non-tumor cells. Notably, IDPIP demonstrated greater potency and selectivity than a clinically used chemotherapeutic agent, with a selectivity index of 23.44, indicating a more favorable therapeutic window. Morphological and flow cytometric analyses revealed that IDPIP induces apoptosis in a dose-dependent manner (up to 90% mortality), involving activation of both intrinsic and extrinsic pathways, as evidenced by caspase-9 and caspase-8 activation assay, respectively. In addition to its cytotoxic effects, IDPIP impaired melanoma cell migration and invasion in vitro, as demonstrated by PMA-induced wound-healing and transwell assays. Treated cells exhibited morphological alterations consistent with reduced adhesion and cytoskeletal disruption. IDPIP treatment was also associated with the accumulation of autophagy-related vesicular structures in this process. Furthermore, using optical tweezers, we demonstrated that IDPIP is capable of interacting with the minor groove of double-stranded DNA. This interaction may contribute to cellular stress responses associated with apoptosis and impaired cell motility. In summary, IDPIP exhibits selective cytotoxicity, promotes apoptosis, and impairs melanoma cell migration in vitro, supporting its potential as a promising candidate for further investigation. Additional studies, including evaluation of DNA damage response pathways and in vivo models, will be necessary to fully elucidate its mechanism of action and therapeutic relevance.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Refined Changqin NO.1 (R-Cq1) has shown favorable therapeutic effects in traumatic brain injury (TBI), which triggers neuronal PANoptosis and involves dysregulation of gut microbiota and metabolites.This study investigates whether R-Cq1 improves TBI through gut-brain axis-mediated neuronal PANoptosis.A TBI mouse model and injured neurons were used to assess the effects of R-Cq1 on gut microbiota, short-chain fatty acid (SCFA) profiles, TNF-α signaling, and neuronal PANoptosis.R-Cq1 was administered to TBI mice, and their fecal samples were subjected to 16S rRNA sequencing and targeted metabolomics. Injured neurons were treated with 3-methylbutanoic acid (3-MA), R-Cq1, and TNF-α inhibitor 3,6'-dithiothalidomide, followed by assessment of neuronal PANoptosis. Anaerotruncus colihominis was transplanted into R-Cq1-treated TBI mice, which underwent neurological function assessment.R-Cq1 improved neurological outcomes in TBI mice and attenuated TBI-induced neuronal death. Immunofluorescence analysis of the gut revealed TBI-induced intestinal barrier disruption, which was mitigated by R-Cq1. Consistently, R-Cq1 reshaped the gut microbiota, reducing the abundance of the genus Anaerotruncus in TBI mice. Anaerotruncus showed a significant positive correlation with modified neurological severity scores. TBI induced alterations in SCFA profiles, with 3-MA significantly increased, which was suppressed by R-Cq1 treatment. 3-MA was positively correlated with modified neurological severity scores and genus Anaerotruncus. In vitro, 3-MA exacerbated PANoptosis, as indicated by increased levels of N-GSDMD, p-MLKL, and cleaved caspase-8, and reversed the inhibitory effect of R-Cq1 on PANoptosis. We also found that 3-MA upregulated TNF-α in scratched neurons. However, when TNF-α was inhibited, the pro-PANoptotic effect of 3-MA was attenuated. In TBI mice treated with R-Cq1, gavage with 3-MA-related Anaerotruncus colihominis abolished the neuroprotective effects of R-Cq1 and increased neuronal death.Collectively, R-Cq1 suppresses Anaerotruncus-associated 3-MA to hinder TNF-α upregulation, thereby alleviating neuronal PANoptosis and TBI. This study elucidates the underlying therapeutic mechanism of R-Cq1 in TBI.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier GmbH.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42537460 is a review article
The Editor-in-Chief, in accordance with the Publisher, has retracted the following articles published between 2017 and 2019 on the grounds of figure duplication and manipulation, subsequent to concerns raised on PubPeer. The corresponding authors of all articles have been contacted several times and were asked to provide the original data, but no responses were received. This retraction notice pertains to the following articles and is carried out in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee on Publication Ethics (COPE): 1.  Mani J, Fleger J, Rutz J, Maxeiner S, Bernd A, Kippenberger S, Zöller N, Chun FK, Relja B, Juengel E, Blaheta RA. Curcumin combined with exposure to visible light blocks bladder cancer cell adhesion and migration by an integrin dependent mechanism. Eur Rev Med Pharmacol Sci 2019; 23(23): 10564-10574-DOI: 10.26355/eurrev_201912_19698-PMID: 31841214. 2.  Ma JB, Hu SL, Zang RK, Su Y, Liang YC, Wang Y. MicroRNA-487a promotes proliferation of esophageal cancer cells by inhibiting p62 expression. Eur Rev Med Pharmacol Sci 2019; 23(4): 1502-1512-DOI: 10.26355/eurrev_201902_17108-PMID: 30840272. 3.  Ma YX, Zhang H, Li XH, Liu YH. MiR-30e-5p inhibits proliferation and metastasis of nasopharyngeal carcinoma cells by target-ing USP22. Eur Rev Med Pharmacol Sci 2018; 22(19): 6342-6349-DOI: 10.26355/eurrev_201810_16045-PMID: 30338802. 4.  Gao AG, Zhou YC, Hu ZJ, Lu BB. Ipriflavone promotes osteogenesis of MSCs derived from osteoporotic rats. Eur Rev Med Pharmacol Sci 2018; 22(14): 4669-4676-DOI: 10.26355/eurrev_201807_15527-PMID: 30058710. 5.  Du XY, Liu X, Wang ZJ, Wang YY. SLPI promotes the gastric cancer growth and metastasis by regulating the expression of P53, Bcl-2 and Caspase-8. Eur Rev Med Pharmacol Sci 2017; 21(7): 1495-1501-PMID: 28429358. The authors have been informed about the retraction but remained unresponsive. These articles have been retracted. The Publisher apologizes for any inconvenience this may cause.
Aurones are plant flavonoids that generally exhibit oxidative stress and anticancer properties. We developed a novel aurone analog, LYK01, but its biological effects have yet to be examined, particularly in relation to its anticancer functions. In our experiment, LYK01 inhibited the proliferation of four types of oral cancer cells with limited cytotoxicity to normal oral cells, attenuated by N-acetylcysteine (NAC), demonstrating a selective ability to kill oral cancer cells. Regarding NAC pretreatment, the LYK01-induced mechanisms were confirmed to be oxidative stress-dependent. Mechanistically, LYK01 triggers G2/M arrest, oxidative stress (ROS and MitoSOX), DNA damage (γH2AX), and extrinsic caspase 8/3-based apoptosis to a greater extent in oral cancer cells than normal cells. Regarding MAPK inhibitors for p38, JNK, and ERK, LYK01-induced antiproliferation and apoptosis in oral cancer cells were attenuated. In conclusion, LYK01 exhibits preferential antiproliferative effects in oral cancer cells -mediated by oxidative stress and MAPK-associated pathways-while exhibiting limited cytotoxicity toward normal cells. These findings warrant in vivo and translational validation.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Naotai formula (NTF) is clinically used for stroke treatment, yet its molecular mechanisms involving vascular and metabolic regulation remain unclear. This study combines network pharmacology (NP) and Mendelian randomization to explore NTF's therapeutic targets and pathways in stroke. Stroke-related genes were sourced from public databases, and NTF's active compounds were screened using SwissADME. Summary-data-based Mendelian randomization (SMR) analysis, combined with colocalization, integrated stroke genome-wide association study data with blood expression quantitative trait loci and protein quantitative trait loci datasets to identify genes/proteins causally linked to stroke risk. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) network and drug-compound-target networks were constructed using Cytoscape and R. Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analyses identified functional roles. Molecular docking assessed interactions between key compounds and prioritized targets. A total of 579 overlapping genes linked NTF and stroke. SMR identified 44 stroke-associated genes, with vascular endothelial growth factor A, angiotensinogen (AGT), and lipoprotein(a) replicated. Validation in Brain-eMeta supported eight of these targets, supporting tissue relevance. Enrichment analyses highlighted pathways including PPAR signaling, cholesterol metabolism, and vascular function. Core targets (Adiponectin, C1Q and collagen domain containing (ADIPOQ), Scavenger Receptor Class B Member 1 (SCARB1), and AGT) emerged from PPI networks. Molecular docking confirmed strong binding between NTF's Calycosin and AGT, a key renin-angiotensin system protein. NTF likely mitigates stroke by modulating genes involved in cholesterol metabolism and vascular regulation. The predicted Calycosin-AGT interaction provides a genetically informed hypothesis for a possible role in renin-angiotensin modulation. This integrative approach provides genetic and mechanistic insights into NTF's therapeutic efficacy.
The balance between adipogenic and osteogenic differentiation of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) is essential for maintaining bone homeostasis. This study aimed to investigate the role of retinoid-related orphan receptor α (RORα) in the adipogenic differentiation of BMSCs.Stable BMSC lines with RORα overexpression or knockdown were established. Adipogenic differentiation was evaluated using Oil Red O staining and by measuring the expression of adipogenic markers, including PPARγ2, LPL, LEP, FABP4, and ADIPOQ.Treatment with the RORα inhibitor SR3335 significantly promoted adipogenic differentiation, whereas the RORα agonist SR1078 exerted the opposite effect. Similarly, RORα-overexpressing (OE-RORα) BMSCs showed reduced adipogenic differentiation, while RORα knockdown BMSCs exhibited enhanced differentiation at 14 days after induction. During adipogenesis, PPARγ2 expression increased significantly, peaking at day 6 before gradually declining. Overexpression and knockdown of RORα accentuated this downregulation and upregulation, respectively, at days 6 and 12. The adipogenic marker genes lipoprotein lipase (LPL), leptin (LEP), fatty acid binding protein 4 (FABP4), and adiponectin C1Q and collagen domain containing (ADIPOQ) were markedly downregulated in RORα-overexpressing BMSCs at day 12. Moreover, RORα overexpression enhanced β-catenin nuclear translocation at day 1 post-induction and upregulated downstream WNT/β-catenin signaling molecules (Axin2, c-Myc, CD44) at day 6. Inhibition of WNT/β-catenin signaling with XAV-939 effectively reversed the suppressive effect of RORα overexpression on adipogenic differentiation and restored the expression of adipogenesis-related genes.RORα suppresses adipogenic differentiation of BMSCs, at least in part, by activating WNT/β-catenin signaling.© 2025. The Author(s).
Zinc finger CCCH-type containing 12A (ZC3H12A), also known as monocyte chemotactic protein-induced protein 1, has emerged as having a potential role in the landscape of some human cancer types, contributing to anti-tumorigenesis through signaling pathways of inflammation, apoptosis, autophagy and angiogenesis. However, its specific impact on the prognosis of oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) remains to be investigated.We conducted in-vitro cell models in a pilot study and performed a retrospective cohort study involving 242 patients with OSCC to unravel the association between ZC3H12A expression level and oral cancer prognosis during 3, 5, and 10-year follow-up.The findings showed that endogenous ZC3H12A expression was decreased in both the malignant (BQO) and highly metastatic (HSC-3-M3) OSCC cell lines compared to dysplastic oral keratinocytes (DOK) and the parental cell line of HSC-3-M3 (HSC-3). The analysis of clinical cancerous tissue arrays from patients with OSCC showed a significant association between complete loss of ZC3H12A expression and heightened cancer mortality, particularly at 3 and 5 years. Moreover, the complete loss of ZC3H12A expression may be associated with increased risk of lymph node involvement in OSCC.Our investigation suggests that the complete loss of ZC3H12A expression exacerbated the unfavorable prognosis of OSCC in this Taiwanese population, but further study on elucidating the gradual decline of ZC3H12A expression in OSCC is imperative.Copyright © 2025, International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) are public health concerns worldwide. These two diseases share the same pathophysiological and genetic similarities. This study aimed to investigate the T2DM known single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of the adiponectin C1Q and collagen domain containing (ADIPOQ), cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 2A and 2B (CDKN2A/2B), and signal sequence receptor subunit 1 (SSR1) genes in a cohort of Romanian GDM pregnant women and perinatal outcomes. DNA was isolated from the peripheral blood of 213 pregnant women with (n = 71) or without (n = 142) GDM. Afterward, ADIPOQ (rs266729), CDKN2A/2B (rs10811661), and SSR1 (rs9505118) gene polymorphisms were genotyped using TaqMan Real-Time PCR analysis. Women with GDM had a higher pre-pregnancy body mass index (BMI) (p < 0.0001), higher BMI (p < 0.0001), higher insulin resistance homeostatic model assessment (IR-HOMA) (p = 0.0002), higher insulin levels (p = 0.003), and lower adiponectin levels (p = 0.004) at birth compared to pregnant women with normoglycemia. GDM pregnant women had gestational hypertension (GH) more frequently during pregnancy (p < 0.0001), perineal lacerations more frequently during vaginal birth (p = 0.03), and more macrosomic newborns (p < 0.0001) than pregnant women from the control group. We did not find an association under any model (allelic, genotypic, dominant, or recessive) of ADIPOQ rs266729, CDKN2A/2B rs10811661, and SSR1 rs9505118 polymorphisms and GDM. In correlation analysis, we found a weak positive correlation (r = 0.24) between the dominant model GG + CG vs. CC of rs266729 and labor induction failure. In the dominant model TT vs. CC + CT of rs10811661, we found a weak negative correlation between this model and perineal lacerations. Our results suggest that the ADIPOQ rs266729, the CDKN2A/2B rs10811661, and the SSR1 rs9505118 gene polymorphisms are not associated with GDM in a cohort of Romanian pregnant women.
The fat tail of sheep is an adaptive trait that facilitates their adaptation to harsh natural environments. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have been demonstrated to play crucial roles in the regulation of tail fat deposition.In this study, miRNA-Seq was employed to investigate the expression profiles of miRNAs during different developmental stages of sheep fat tails and elucidate the functions of differentially expressed miRNAs (DE miRNAs).A total of 350 DE miRNAs were identified, among which 191, 60, 26, and 21 were significantly upregulated in tail fat tissues of fetal, lamb, hogget Altay sheep, and adult Xinjiang fine wool (XFW) sheep but downregulated in other stages. Furthermore, we predicted a set of candidate target genes (4,476) for the top 20 DE miRNAs. Gene ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analysis showed that they involve in several adipogenesis-related pathways. Subsequent investigations indicated that four DE miRNAs, miR-433-3p, miR-485-3p, miR-409-3p, and miR-495-3p, could suppress the expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ) and phosphoinositide-3-kinase regulatory subunit 3 (PIK3R3) and regulate the preadipocyte development in sheep. Meanwhile, the lipid metabolism-related genes, fatty acid-binding protein (FABP3), perilipin 1 (PLIN1), adiponectin C1Q and collagen domain containing (ADIPOQ), and lipoprotein lipase (LPL), were significantly downregulated (p < 0.01).The expression patterns of miRNAs exhibited significant fluctuations during different development periods of the fat tail, and some of them may participate in the regulation of tail fat deposition by modulating the proliferation and differentiation of preadipocytes.Copyright © 2024 Zhang, Wang, Yang, Gao, Ning, Xu, Deng and Gan.
We found a novel gene, named "transformed follicular lymphoma" (TFL), in a patient who developed diffuse large B-cell lymphoma from follicular lymphoma. TFL modulates several cytokines and chemokines by binding their 3'UTR region of mRNA with its unique RNase motif. TFL is part of a family called zinc finger CCCH-type containing 12A-D. Due to its unique RNase motif, the TFL family is also called regulatory RNase (Regnase 1-4). TFL is expressed in lymphoid tissue and is upregulated by an inflammatory response, contributing to autoimmune diseases such as multiple sclerosis via IL-17 in CNS and worsening inflammation (cachexia) due to lymphoma progression through CXCL-13. Loss of TFL expression is reported to be a valuable biomarker for various cancers, including lung adenocarcinoma, endometrial cancer, and possibly lymphoma. In addition to its mRNA modulation function, Regnase1 is known to have deubiquitinase activity for TRAF2, 3, and 6, attenuating JNK and NFκB activity, and TFL captures and transports naked nonvesicular extracellular mRNA of IL-1β to the nucleus, enhancing the tumor-killing activity in NK cells. Based on its potential to modulate inflammation, TFL could be a future treatment target for autoimmune diseases and cancer.
Norisoboldine (NOR) is a major isoquinoline alkaloid component in the traditional Chinese herbal plant Lindera aggregata (Sims) Kosterm, with previously reported anti-osteoclast differentiation and antiarthritis properties. However, the roles of NOR on osteoblasts, bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs), and osteoporosis in vivo have never been well established.This study investigates the ability of NOR to improve bone formation in vitro and in vivo. Osteoblasts and BMSCs are used to study the effect of NOR on osteogenic and adipogenic differentiation. It finds that NOR promotes osteogenic differentiation of osteoblasts and BMSCs, while inhibiting adipogenic differentiation of BMSCs by reducing the relative expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (Ppar-γ) and adiponectin, C1Q and collagen domain containing (Adipoq). Mechanistic studies show that NOR increases osteoblast differentiation through the mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase (mTOR)/ribosomal protein S6 kinase; polypeptide 1 (S6K1) pathway, and treatment with an mTOR inhibitor rapamycin blocked the NOR-induced increase in mineral accumulation. Finally, the study evaluates the therapeutic potential of NOR in a mouse model of ovariectomy (OVX)-induced bone loss. NOR prevents bone loss in both trabecular and cortical bone by increasing osteoblast number and phospho-S6K1 (p-S6K1) expression in osteoblasts.NOR effects in enhancing osteoblast-induced bone formation via S6K1 pathway, suggesting the potential of NOR in osteoporosis treatment by increasing bone formation.© 2024 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Hypoxia is a major contributor to tumor microenvironment (TME) and metastasis in most solid tumors. We seek to screen hypoxia-related genes affecting metastasis in breast cancer and to reveal relative potential regulatory pathway. Based on gene expression profiling of GSE17188 dataset, differential expressed genes (DEGs) were identified between highly metastatic breast cancer cells under hypoxia and samples under normoxia. The protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was utilized to determine hub genes. The gene expression profiling interactive analysis database (GEPIA2) and quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) were employed to quantify hub genes. Moreover, overexpression of zinc finger CCCH-type containing 12A (ZC3H12A) was performed both in breast cancer cells and xenograft mouse model to determine the role of ZC3H12A. We identified 134 DEGs between hypoxic and normoxic samples. Based on PPI analysis, 5 hub genes interleukin (IL)-6, GALN (GAL), CD22 molecule (CD22), ZC3H12A and TNF receptor associated factor 1 (TRAF1) were determined; the expression levels of TRAF1, IL-6, ZC3H12A and GAL were remarkably downregulated while CD22 was upregulated in breast cancer cells. Besides, patients with higher expression of ZC3H12A had favorable prognosis. Overexpression of ZC3H12A could inhibit metastasis and tumor growth of breast cancer; overexpression of ZC3H12A downregulated the expression of IL-17 signaling pathway-related proteins such as IL-17 receptor A (IL-17RA), IL-17A and nuclear factor κB activator 1 (Act1). This study reveals ZC3H12A and IL-17 signaling pathway as potential therapeutic targets for hypoxic breast cancer.
Skipped: PubMed ID 37700498 is a review article
Invadopodia, being actin-rich membrane protrusions, play a vital role in tumor cell invasion and metastasis. Our previous studies have revealed some functions of the DOC-2/DAB2 interacting protein (DAB2IP) as a tumor suppressor. Nevertheless, the specific role and mechanism of DAB2IP in invadopodia formation remain unclear. Here, we find that DAB2IP effectively suppresses invadopodia formation and metastasis in breast cancer, both in vitro and in vivo. Additionally, DAB2IP could downregulate anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK), resulting in the inhibition of tyrosine phosphorylation of Cortactin and the prevention of invadopodia formation. DAB2IP competitively antagonizes the interaction between the deubiquitinating enzyme Ubiquitin-specific peptidase 10 (USP10) and ALK, leading to a decrease in the abundance of ALK protein. In summary, DAB2IP impairs the stability of ALK through USP10-dependent deubiquitination, suppressing Cortactin phosphorylation, thereby inhibiting invadopodia formation and metastasis of breast cancer cells. Furthermore, this study suggests a potential therapeutic strategy for breast cancer treatment.© 2023 The Author(s).
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the main type of lung cancer with high morbidity and mortality. Vascular mimicry (VM), a distinct microcirculation model in tumors that differs from classical angiogenesis, is strongly associated with poor clinical outcomes in cancer patients. miR-491-5p has been reported to prevent NSCLC progression, including proliferation, metastasis, and angiogenesis. However, the effect and mechanism of miR-491-5p on VM have not been studied in NSCLC.The expression of miR-491-5p was detected by quantitative reverse transcription PCR (qPCR) and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). Cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) and 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU) staining assays were used to examine cell growth. Tube formation assay was used to assess VM in NSCLC cells. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) and western blot were performed to detect protein expression. Immunoprecipitation was used to confirm the interaction between OTU deubiquitinase 7B (OTUD7B) and vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA), and the level of ubiquitinated VEGFA. A nude mouse tumorigenesis model was used to evaluate the carcinogenic capacity of NSCLC cells in vivo. Luciferase reporter assay was used to identify the potential target of miR-491-5p.MiR-491-5p was found downregulated in NSCLC tissues, and miR-491-5p deficiency was strongly associated with angiogenesis. miR-491-5p mimics suppressed cell viability, migration, and VM. Conversely, an inhibitor of miR-491-5p had the opposite effect. OTUD7B, a deubiquitinase, was identified as a downstream target of miR-491-5p. A luciferase reporter assay indicated that miR-491-5p directly binds to the 3'UTR of OTUD7B. Moreover, mimics of miR-491-5p caused a significant reduction in the OTUD7B protein in NSCLC cells, and an inhibitor of miR-491-5p stabilized the OTUD7B protein. In addition, overexpression of OTUD7B promoted cell proliferation, migration, and VM, similar to the effects of an inhibitor of miR-491-5p. Further exploration revealed that OTUD7B interacts with VEGFA and that the miR-491-5p-OTUD7B axis modulates the ubiquitination of VEGFA. The rescue experiment indicated that OTUD7B compromised the inhibitory effects of miR-491-5p on the cellular function of NSCLC cells.Overall, our study first proved that miR-491-5p impedes VM by suppressing OUTD7B and promoting the ubiquitination of VEGFA. The miR-491-5p/OTUD7B axis may be a novel target for antiangiogenic therapy in NSCLC.© 2024 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Hyperthermia, as an adjuvant therapy, has shown promising anti-tumor effects. Ovarian tumor domain-containing 7B (OTUD7B) is a deubiquitinating enzyme that is frequently found in a variety of cancers. The aim of this study is to investigate the role of OTUD7B in lung cancer hyperthermia and the underlying mechanism. A549 and CALU-3 cells were respectively exposed to 42 or 44°C for the indicated times (0, 1, 3, or 6 h) followed by incubation at 37°C for 24 h. We found a temperature- and time-dependent decrease in cell viability and an increase in apoptosis levels. Compared with 0 h, heat treatment for 3 h inhibited the proliferation and invasion of A549 cells, reduced the expression levels of mitochondrial membrane potential, IAP family members (cIAP-1 and XIAP) proteins and ubiquitination of Smac, and increased Smac protein expression. Treatment with 10 μM Smac mimic BV6 further enhanced the anti-tumor effect of hyperthermia. Next, co-IP validation showed that OTUD7B interacted with Smac and stabilized Smac through deubiquitination. OTUD7B overexpression induced damage in A549 and CALU-3 cells, while silencing OTUD7B caused opposite effects. Overexpressing OTUD7B enhanced the anti-cancer effect of hyperthermia, while si-OTUD7B reversed the anti-cancer effect of hyperthermia, which was verified in the xenograft tumor model in nude mice. Taken together, OTUD7B may serve as a potential anticancer factor with potential clinical efficacy in the thermotherapeutic treatment of lung cancer.© 2023 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is associated with retarded lung development and poor lung health in offspring. Mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) is a key regulator of vasculogenesis and angiogenesis. The aim of this study was to investigate the role mTOR plays in pulmonary vasculogenesis during fetal lung development under maternal hyperglycemia.First, GDM was induced via streptozotocin injection in pregnant C57BL/6 mice before the radial alveolar count (RAC) in the fetal lungs was assessed using hematoxylin and eosin staining. The angiogenic ability of the cultured primary mouse fetal lung endothelial cells (MFLECs) was then assessed using the tube formation assay technique, while western blot and real-time polymerase chain reaction were performed to determine the expression of mTOR, regulatory-associated protein of mTOR (Raptor), rapamycin-insensitive companion of mTOR (Rictor), stress-activated protein kinase interacting protein 1 (Sin1), G protein beta subunit-like protein (GβL), Akt, tumor necrosis receptor associated factor-2 (TRAF2), and OTU deubiquitinase 7B (OTUD7B) in both the fetal lung tissues and the cultured MFLECs. Immunoprecipitation assays were conducted to evaluate the status of GβL-ubiquitination and the association between GβL and mTOR, Raptor, Rictor, and Sin1 in the cultured MFLECs.The GDM fetal lungs exhibited a decreased RAC and reduced expression of von Willebrand factor, CD31, and microvessel density. The high glucose level reduced the tube formation ability in the MFLECs, with the mTOR, p-mTOR, p-Raptor, and TRAF2 expression upregulated and the p-Rictor, p-Sin1, p-Akt, and OTUD7B expression downregulated in both the GDM fetal lungs and the high-glucose-treated MFLECs. Meanwhile, GβL-ubiquitination was upregulated in the high-glucose-treated MFLECs along with an increased GβL/Raptor association and decreased GβL/Rictor and GβL/Sin1 association. Furthermore, TRAF2 knockdown inhibited the high-glucose-induced GβL-ubiquitination and GβL/Raptor association and restored the tube formation ability of the MFLECs.Maternal hyperglycemia inhibits pulmonary vasculogenesis during fetal lung development by promoting GβL-ubiquitination-dependent mTORC1 assembly.© 2023. The Author(s).
Pathological cardiac hypertrophy is a major predisposing factor for heart failure (HF). This study investigates the role of the E3 ubiquitin ligase Tripartite Motif-Containing 40 (TRIM40) in cardiac hypertrophy. Using TRIM40 knockout (TRIM40-/-), cardiac-specific knockdown and overexpressing mice, pathological hypertrophy was induced by angiotensin II (Ang II) infusion or transverse aortic constriction (TAC). Results showed that TRIM40 expression was upregulated in hypertrophic hearts. TRIM40 deficiency attenuated cardiac hypertrophy and dysfunction, whereas its overexpression exacerbated pathological remodeling. Mechanistically, TRIM40 binds PKN2 via its B-box domain and, in a manner requiring its C29-dependent E3 ligase activity, promotes K63-linked ubiquitination of PKN2. This leads to enhanced PKN2 phosphorylation at Ser815 and activation of downstream signaling. Pharmacological inhibition of PKN2 attenuated cardiac remodeling induced by TRIM40 overexpression. These findings reveal that TRIM40 drives cardiac hypertrophy through K63-linked ubiquitination and activation of PKN2, identifying TRIM40 as a promising candidate for therapeutic intervention in HF.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
NOD-like receptor protein 3 (NLRP3) is a key driver of hepatotoxicant-induced nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Phosphorylation of NLRP3 at serine 295 (p-NLRP3S295) is crucial for pyroptosis. Monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) have been designed to target extracellular molecules or cell membrane surface receptors and have achieved progress in NAFLD treatment. However, research on mAbs targeting intracellular biomarkers for NAFLD treatment remains limited. In this study, aflatoxin B1 (AFB1), lipopolysaccharide (LPS) combined with ATP, or palmitic acid (PA) were used to induce p-NLRP3S295-dependent pyroptosis and inflammation mediated by lipotoxicity in hepatocytes in vitro. We generated a specific anti-p-NLRP3S295 mAb (14C7) and internalized it into hepatocytes via an enhanced TAT-based intracellular delivery system (eTAT), which inhibited p-NLRP3S295-dependent pyroptosis and inflammation in hepatocytes subjected to simulated lipotoxic injury and in the livers of NAFLD mice. The recombinant mAb@p-NLRP3S295 expression system was constructed with 14C7. The intracellularly expressed recombinant monoclonal antibody (R-mAb) efficiently blocked p-NLRP3S295-dependent pyroptosis and inflammation in hepatocytes exposed to hepatotoxicant through the proteasome degradation pathway mediated by tripartite motif-containing 40 (TRIM40). In conclusion, this study presents a novel approach for the targeted inhibition of p-NLRP3S295 through intracellular recombinant mAbs, offering new insights into the treatment of hepatotoxicant-related NAFLD via specific intracellular targeting.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Oroxylin A (OA), a naturally active O-methylated flavone derived from Scutellaria baicalensis, is regarded as a potential drug with strong anticancer effects. Unfortunately, our understanding of the antineoplastic mechanism of oral exposure to such flavonoids is inadequate. Growing evidence has confirmed the important role of OA in the regulation of oxidative stress- and inflammatory-response-induced tissue injury. However, it remains unknown whether OA is capable of mitigating esophagus cancer (EC) progression and its potential molecular mechanism. Furthermore, the tripartite motif containing 40 (TRIM40) is a ubiquitin ligase that mediates the immune response. The potential molecular function of TRIM40 in regulating EC is largely unknown. We confirmed that OA-triggered oxidative stress markedly upregulates TRIM40. During the OA challenge, increased TRIM40 reduced oxidative stress and promoted the ER stress response. Inversely, deletion of TRIM40 facilitated oxidative stress and blocked cancer cell growth in vivo and in vitro. Mechanistically, in response to OA treatment, TRIM40 directly interacts with Keap1 and promotes ubiquitin-proteasome degradation, thus leading to the promotion of Nrf2 nuclear translocation and its downstream cascade activation, which increases antioxidant defense and cell survival. TRIM40 expression was positively correlated with Nrf2 expression and negatively associated with Keap1 expression in EC xenografts and human specimens. In addition, high TRIM40 expression correlates with poor patient survival in EC. The findings suggested that oral exposure to OA significantly mitigates EC development by targeting TRIM40 activity. These findings further elucidated the potential role of TRIM40 in EC progression by mediating Keap1 degradation, which could be considered a therapeutic target for the treatment of such a disease.Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is a common microvascular complication of diabetes mellitus. Reelin, an extracellular matrix protein, and its effector protein Disabled1 (DAB1) have been linked to cellular events and retinal development. However, whether and how Reelin/DAB1 signaling causes DR remains to be investigated. In our study, significantly increased expression of Reelin, very low density lipoprotein receptor (VLDLR), ApoE receptor 2 (ApoER2) and phosphorylated DAB1 in retinas of streptozotocin (STZ)-induced DR mouse model was observed, along with enhanced expression of proinflammatory factors. Similar results are confirmed in high glucose (HG)-treated human retinal pigment epithelium cell line ARPE-19. Surprisingly, dysregulated tripartite motif-containing 40 (TRIM40), an E3 ubiquitin ligase, is found to be involved in DR progression by bioinformatic analysis. We observe a negative correlation between TRIM40 and p-DAB1 protein expression levels under HG conditions. Importantly, we find that TRIM40 over-expression markedly ameliorates HG-induced p-DAB1, PI3K, p-protein B kinase (AKT) and inflammatory response in HG-treated cells, but dose not affect Reelin expression. Of note, Co-IP and double immunofluorescence identify an interaction between TRIM40 and DAB1. Furthermore, we show that TRIM40 enhances K48-linked polyubiquitination of DAB1, thereby promoting DAB1 degradation. Finally, promoting TRIM40 expression by intravenous injection of the constructed adeno-associated virus (AAV-TRIM40) markedly ameliorates DR phenotypes in STZ-treated mice, as indicated by the decreased blood glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin (HbAlc) levels, and increased hemoglobin contents. Additionally, diabetes-related elevation of acellular capillaries was also meliorated in mice over-expressing TRIM40. The electroretinogram (ERG) deficits were strongly rescued in mice receiving AAV-TRIM40 injection. Moreover, AAV-TRIM40 attenuates the inflammation and p-DAB1 expression in retinal tissues of STZ-treated mice. Collectively, our findings disclose a mechanism through which TRIM40 limits DAB1 stability under physiological conditions and reveals TRIM40 as a potential therapeutic target for the intervention of Reelin/DAB1 signaling, contributing to DR treatment.Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Hypertension is a multifactorial condition of unknown cause that affects more than 1.28 billion adults worldwide and impacts the sexes differently. The hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) plays a central role in blood pressure (BP) regulation by modulating sympathetic tone and releasing neuropeptides that affect the cardiovascular function. In this study, we investigated the transcriptomic profile of the PVN in hypertensive strains and across sexes, aiming to identify novel sex-specific molecular pathways involved in the regulation of BP.To accomplish this goal, we sequenced RNA from the PVNs of normotensive Wistar rats and Spontaneously Hypertensive Rats (SHR), both male and female. We also performed a cardiovascular assessment based on blood pressure (BP) measurements and their variability.Cardiovascular assessment revealed higher SBP in SHRs than in Wistar rats; while males exhibited greater autonomic regulation associated with vasomotor and neurohumoral mechanisms, while females maintained comparable SBP levels primarily through an increase in heart rate, reflecting distinct autonomic adaptations. Hypertension also impacted gene expression, with influences from both the hypertensive state and sex. Compared with female SHRs, male SHRs presented a marked increase in differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Key upregulated genes in males, including Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor (Bdnf) and Hypocretin (Hcrt), have already been linked to elevated BP, and Angiotensin II Receptor Type 1 (Agtr1a) is possibly associated with increased SBP-VLF variability, which serves as an indirect measure of enhanced sympathetic tone. In contrast, the female transcriptomic signature was characterized by the upregulation of anti-inflammatory pathways, with upregulation of NLR Family CARD Domain Containing 3 (Nlrc3) and Paired Ig-like Receptor B (Pirb), and downregulation of Absent in Melanoma 2 (Aim2), and S100 Calcium Binding Protein B (S100b). Notably, genes associated with neuroinflammation, such as the downregulation of Annexin A1 (Anxa1) and the upregulation of Solute Carrier Family 11 Member 1 (Slc11a1), were consistently altered in both sexes.These results provide new insights into the cardiovascular and molecular basis of sex differences in hypertension, suggesting distinct neurohumoral autonomic profile in males, whereas in females a greater anti-inflammatory component. These findings offer a valuable framework for developing future sex-specific therapeutic strategies.© 2026. The Author(s).
NOD-like receptor family CARD domain containing 3 (NLRC3) is the intracellular protein belonging to NLR (NOD-like receptor) family. NLRC3 can negatively regulate inflammatory signal transduction pathways within the adaptive and innate immunocytes. However, studies need to elucidate the biological role of NLRC3 in bone remodeling. Herein, our study proved that NLRC3 prevents bone loss by inhibiting TNFα+ Th17 cell responses. In osteoporosis, NLRC3 attenuated TNFα+ Th17 cell accumulation in the bone marrow. However, osteoporosis (OP) development was aggravated without affecting bone marrow macrophage (BMM) osteoclastogenesis in NLRC3-deficient ovariectomized (OVX) mice. In this study, we transferred the wild-type and NLRC3-/- CD4+ cells into Rag1-/- mice. Consequently, we evidenced the effects of NLRC3 in CD4+ T cells on inhibiting the accumulation of TNFα + Th17 cells, thus restricting bone loss in the OVX mice. Simultaneously, NLRC3-/- CD4+ T cells promoted the recruitment of osteoclast precursors and inflammatory monocytes into the OVX mouse bone marrow. Mechanism-wise, NLRC3 reduced the secretion of TNFα + Th17 cells of RANKL, MIP1α, and MCP1, depending on the T cells. In addition, NLRC3 negatively regulated the Th17 osteoclastogenesis promoting functions via limiting the NF-κB activation. Collectively, this study appreciated the effect of NLRC3 on modulating bone mass via adaptive immunity depending on CD4+ cells. According to findings of this study, NLRC3 may be the candidate anti-OP therapeutic target. KEY MESSAGES: NLRC3 negatively regulated the Th17 osteoclastogenesis promoting functions via limiting the NF-κB activation. NLRC3 may be the candidate anti-OP therapeutic target.© 2024. The Author(s).
Acute lung injury (ALI) progresses rapidly, is difficult to treat, and has a high fatality rate. The excessive inflammatory response is an important pathological mechanism of ALI. NLRC3 (NLR family CARD domain-containing 3), a non-inflammasome member of the NLR family, has been found that it could negatively regulates various biological pathways associated with inflammatory response, such as NF-κB (nuclear factor kappa B), PI3K (Phosphatidylinositol 3'-kinase)-Akt (protein kinase B)-mTOR (mammalian target of the rapamycin), and STING (stimulator of interferon genes) pathways, which are responsible for the progression of pulmonary inflammation and participate in regulating the pathological progression of ALI. However, the effects of NLRC3 in sepsis-induced pathological injury of lung tissue remain unclear. In this study, we aimed to investigate the potential effects of NLRC3 in the sepsis-induced ALI. To investigate whether NLRC3 participates in inhibiting the pulmonary inflammatory response of sepsis-induced ALI. Sepsis-induced ALI mice models were established by intrabronchial injection of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or cecum ligation and puncture (CLP). The lentivirus with overexpression of NLRC3 (LV-NLRC3) and downregulation of NLRC3 (LV-NLRC3-RNAi) were transfected to LPS-induced ALI mice. The expression of NLRC3 was upregulated or downregulated in the lung tissue of sepsis-induced ALI mice. Transfection with NLRC3-overexpression lentivirus significantly decreased inflammatory response in the lung of LPS-induced ALI mice in contrast to the control group. By transfection with NLRC3-silencing lentivirus, the inflammatory response in LPS-induced ALI mice was aggravated. Our study provides evidence of the protective effect of NLRC3 in sepsis-induced ALI by inhibiting excessive inflammatory response of the lung tissue.AbbreviationsAcute lung injury: ALI; intensive care units: ICU; lipopolysaccharide: LPS; acute respiratory distress syndrome: ARDS; bronchoalveolar lavage fluid: BALF; nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain-like receptors: NLRs; NLR family CARD domain containing 3: NLRC3; nuclear factor kappa B: NF-κB; tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6: TRAF6; Phosphatidylinositol 3'-kinase: PI3K; protein kinase B: Akt; mammalian target of the rapamycin: mTOR; stimulator of interferon genes: STING; TANK-binding kinase 1: TBK1; type I interferon: IFN-I; toll-like receptors: TLRs; tumor necrosis factor: TNF; interleukin: IL; NOD-like receptor protein 3: NLRP3; enhanced green fluorescent protein: EGFP; lentivirus: LV; phosphate-buffered saline: PBS; intrabronchial: i.t.; cecum ligation and puncture: CLP; wet/dry: W/D; Real time polymerase chain reaction: RT-PCR; enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay: ELISA; hematoxylin and eosin: H&E; radio immunoprecipitation assay: RIPA; sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis: SDS-PAGE; polyvinylidene fluoride: PVDF; glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase: GAPDH; bovine serum albumin: BSA; Tris buffered saline containing Tween 20: TBST; standard deviation: SD; one-way analysis of variance: ANOVA; janus kinase 2: JAK2; activators of transcription 3: STAT3; pathogen associated molecular patterns: PAMPs; danger associated molecular patterns: DAMPs.
The NLR family CARD domain containing 3 (NLRC3) gene has been reported to have a crucial effect on immunity, inflammation, and tumorigenesis. However, the clinical relevance of NLRC3 in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) remains unclear. This study analyzed both RNA sequencing data and corresponding clinical outcomes obtained from public databases to identify (i) NLRC3 as a tumor suppressor in LUAD and (ii) its predictive value for the likelihood of patient responsiveness to immunotherapy. The results showed that NLRC3 expression was reduced in LUAD and was lower in advanced-stage tumors. Additionally, reduced NLRC3 expression was correlated with worse patient prognosis. The protein level of NLRC3 was also observed to have prognostic significance. Moreover, downregulation of NLRC3 was found to suppress the chemotaxis and infiltration of antitumor lymphocyte subpopulations as well as natural killer cells. Mechanistic analysis indicated that NLRC3 may be involved in immune infiltration by regulating chemokines and their receptors in LUAD. Furthermore, NLRC3 functions as a molecular switch in macrophages, whereby it mediates the polarization of M1 macrophages. Patients with high NLRC3 expression were also found to exhibit a more promising response to immunotherapy. In conclusion, NLRC3 could serve as a potential prognostic biomarker for LUAD, help predict the immunotherapeutic response of patients, and guide personalized strategies for the treatment of LUAD.© 2023. The Author(s).
In the present study, we studied the effect of β-glucan on the activation of antiviral immune responses against nervous necrosis virus (NNV) taking into consideration the role of innate immune training. Sevenband grouper primary macrophages showed an attenuated proinflammatory response and elevated antiviral response to NNV infection. In vitro, priming of β-glucan enhanced macrophage viability against NNV infection which is associated with the activation of sustained inflammatory cytokines gene expression. Observations were clear to understand that NLR Family CARD Domain Containing 3 (NLRC3) and caspase-1 activation and subsequent IL-1β production were reduced in β-glucan-primed macrophages. Subsequent markers for training including Lactate and abundance of HIF-1α were elevated in the cells following training. However, the lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) concentrations remained stable among the β-glucan stimulated infected and uninfected groups suggesting similar macrophage health in both groups. In vivo, the NNV-infected fish primed with β-glucan had a higher survival rate (60%) than the control NNV-infected group (40%). Our findings demonstrate that β-glucan induced protective responses against NNV infection and studies are underway to harness its potential applicability for prime and boost vaccination strategies.Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42369864 is a review article
Anti-PIT-1 hypophysitis is a rare T cell-mediated autoimmune pituitary disorder presenting as a paraneoplastic syndrome or after immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) therapy, and its predominance in Japan suggests an underlying genetic predisposition. The NLR family CARD domain containing 5 (NLRC5) encodes a key transcriptional regulator of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I, and its p.Pro191Leu missense variant is associated with ICI-related endocrinopathies and enhanced interferon-γ responses. Therefore, we examined whether NLRC5 p.Pro191Leu is enriched in anti-PIT-1 hypophysitis.We genotyped the NLRC5 p.Pro191Leu variant (c.572 C > T) in seven Japanese individuals with anti-PIT-1 hypophysitis for whom genomic DNA was available. The carrier frequency observed in this cohort was compared with ancestry-matched expectations from the Tohoku Medical Megabank 61KJPN Japanese reference panel using a prespecified one-sided exact binomial test. Sensitivity analyses included Mid-P adjustment, risk differences, and risk ratios.Among seven genotyped Japanese individuals with anti-PIT-1 hypophysitis, five (71.4%) were carriers, exceeding the expected ancestry-matched frequency from the Japanese reference panel (expected carrier frequency 37.7%; exact p = 0.076; mid-P = 0.045). The effect sizes were risk difference + 0.337 and risk ratio 1.89.This study provides suggestive evidence that the NLRC5 p.Pro191Leu variant may confer genetic susceptibility to anti-PIT-1 hypophysitis in the Japanese population, based on its enrichment relative to ancestry-matched reference panels. These findings, together with NLRC5's role as the master regulator of MHC class I expression, propose a novel and testable pathogenic model.© 2026. The Author(s).
Homeodomain-interacting protein kinase 4 (HIPK4) is a dual-specificity kinase that is predominantly expressed in differentiating spermatids, required for sperm development, and a promising target for nonhormonal male contraception. Genetic and functional studies have established an essential role for HIPK4 in spermiogenesis, where it acts at least in part through regulation of the F-actin-scaffolded acroplaxome during spermatid head shaping. The direct molecular targets of HIPK4 and their downstream effectors remain poorly defined, and small-molecule probes would be versatile tools for further investigating HIPK4 functions. Synthetic HIPK4 ligands could also be valuable leads for the development of nonhormonal male contraceptives. Here, we report the discovery of a cyanoquinoline-based series of HIPK4 inhibitors with nanomolar potency. Our lead compounds are selective for HIPK4, both within the HIPK family and across the broader kinome, establishing this scaffold as a useful starting point for probe and lead development. Unexpectedly, we found that a subset of these cyanoquinolines also perturbs HIPK4 proteostasis in a cell type-specific manner. In spermatids, these compounds induce the formation of detergent-insoluble HIPK4 aggregates and promote interactions between this kinase and the autophagy receptor Tax1-binding protein 1 (TAX1BP1). Together, our findings establish cyanoquinoline ligands as a new chemotype for probing HIPK4 biology and advancing male contraceptive discovery.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42165195
Skipped: PubMed ID 42047332 is a review article
The CGAS-STING1 pathway plays a key role in detecting cytosolic DNA and initiating immune responses. Excessive STING1 activation can lead to aberrant inflammation and autoinflammatory diseases; therefore, the STING1 degradation pathway is tightly regulated by several negative regulatory mechanisms. In our recent study, we show that the selective autophagy receptor TAX1BP1 functions as a negative regulator of STING1 signaling. TAX1BP1 promotes the degradation of activated STING1 through microautophagy by facilitating the interaction of STING1 with the ESCRT-0 protein HGS, and selective autophagy of the Golgi apparatus in a process known as Golgiphagy. In TAX1BP1-deficient macrophages, STING1 aggregates accumulate at the trans-Golgi network, leading to stronger antiviral and inflammatory responses. These findings support a novel mechanism linking organelle quality control and innate immune regulation, highlighting Golgiphagy as an important feedback mechanism that limits STING1 signaling.Abbreviations: cGAMP: cyclic guanosine monophosphate-adenosine monophosphate; CGAS: Cyclic GMP-AMP synthase; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; ESCRT: endosomal sorting complex required for transport; ECTV: ectromelia virus; HGS: hepatocyte growth factor-regulated tyrosine kinase substrate; IKK: IκB kinase; IRF3: interferon regulatory factor 3; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; SQSTM1: sequestosome 1; STING1: stimulator of interferon response cGAMP interactor 1; TBK1: TANK binding kinase 1; TAX1BP1: Tax1 binding protein 1.
Gastric cancer (GC) is among the most common malignant tumors worldwide. The inhibition of p53 ubiquitination can inhibit the progression of GC. The mechanism through which plasmolipin (PLLP) regulates p53 ubiquitination in GC remains unclear. In this study, the correlation between PLLP expression and the prognosis of GC was analyzed on the basis of data from The Cancer Genome Atlas database, and the expression characteristics of PLLP and p53 were verified by immunohistochemistry. A PLLP overexpression/knockdown GC cell model was constructed, and cell proliferation, apoptosis, and invasion were detected by Cell Counting Kit-8, flow cytometry, and Transwell assays. Coimmunoprecipitation and Western blotting were used to analyze the PLLP-tripartite motif-containing 59 (TRIM59)-p53 regulatory axis. The antitumor effect of PLLP in vivo was verified by tumor formation experiments in nude mice. Cycloheximide tracking assays, coimmunoprecipitation, and ubiquitination analysis were used to determine the effect of PLLP on p53 stability. Combined with bioinformatics prediction and experimental verification, the interaction between PLLP and the E3 ubiquitin ligase TRIM59 and its regulatory effect on the ubiquitination and degradation of p53 were analyzed. Flow cytometry and Transwell assays were used to verify the biological effect of the PLLP-TRIM59-p53 axis. We found that PLLP was downregulated in GC (p < 0.05). PLLP interacts with TRIM59, inhibits TRIM59-mediated ubiquitination degradation of p53, and inhibits the progression of GC cells with WT p53. PLLP may be used as a potential biomarker for targeted therapy of GC.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Background Cancers remain a significant global health challenge; identification of cutting-edge diagnostic and prognostic markers plus innovative therapeutic targets is crucial. Tripartite motif molecule 59 (TRIM59) is a potential oncogene. However, its specific role in cancers is lacking. We aimed to investigate the expression of TRIM59 in pan-cancer as well as its implications for tumorigenesis, clinicopathological factors, and immune cell infiltration. Moreover, we aimed to investigate the protein-protein interaction and evaluate its potential as a diagnostic and prognostic biomarker in pan-cancer using bioinformatic analysis. Methods We analyzed TRIM59 across different cancer types using public datasets and bioinformatics tools. To study gene expression patterns, we used gene expression profiling interactive analysis (GEPIA), University of Alabama at Birmingham Cancer Data Analysis Portal (UALCAN), tumor immune estimation resource (TIMER), and University of California, Santa Cruz (UCSC) Xena, and validated our findings using additional datasets from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) datasets. We assessed diagnostic performance with receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis. We also used Kaplan-Meier plotter (K-M plotter), GEPIA, UALCAN, and TIMER to explore how TRIM59 expression relates to patient prognosis and immune cell infiltration. Genetic changes were examined with cBioPortal, while the search tool for recurring instances of neighboring genes (STRING) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analysis helped us study protein-protein interaction networks and pathway enrichment. For statistical analysis, we used the Limma (Linear Models for Microarray Analysis) program and standard tests. Results TRIM59 was significantly upregulated in 22 cancers, with the highest level of expression in breast cancer (BRCA), esophageal cancer (ESCA), lung squamous cell carcinoma (LUSC), and stomach adenocarcinoma (STAD). High TRIM59 expression is significantly associated with a worse prognosis in kidney renal papillary cell carcinoma (KIRP), liver hepatocellular carcinoma (LIHC), and lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD), and it was also associated with various clinicopathological factors in BRCA, ESCA, LUSC, STAD, and immune markers across all these cancers. High TRIM59 expression is associated with infiltration of different immune cells in BRCA, ESCA, LUSC, STAD, LIHC, KIRP, and LUAD. Also, TRIM59 is associated with various genetic alterations across different types of tumors, and it interacts with several proteins. Conclusion In this study, we found that TRIM59 contributes to the carcinogenesis and increased malignant behavior of BRCA, ESCA, STAD, LUSC, LUAD, and KIRP. We also found that TRIM59 is a potential diagnostic biomarker for BRCA, ESCA, LUSC and STAD and a prognostic biomarker for KIRP, LIHC, and LUAD. Moreover, it correlates with immune infiltration and may be relevant to immunotherapy in these cancers. Furthermore, its correlation with tumor protein 53 (TP53), alpha/beta hydrolase domain containing 5 (ABHD5), and evolutionarily conserved signaling intermediate in toll pathway (ECSIT) may be used as a potential area of therapeutic intervention.Copyright © 2026, Attaelmanan et al.
Early detection of pancreatic cancer remains challenging, and reliable circulating biomarkers are needed to enable earlier diagnosis and improve clinical outcomes. We conducted a plasma proteomics study using the Olink Explore HT platform to identify novel biomarker candidates for early-stage pancreatic cancer. The study included 42 patients with stage I-II pancreatic cancer and 43 matched controls. Plasma protein levels were quantified using the Olink Proximity Extension Assay, and differential abundance was assessed using Welch's t-test with correction for multiple testing. Diagnostic performance was evaluated using the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC). Among 5419 proteins analyzed, 982 showed significant differences between cases and controls. Carboxylesterase 3 (CES3) was the most significantly decreased protein, whereas leukocyte immunoglobulin-like receptor B4 (LILRB4) was the most significantly increased protein; both demonstrated excellent diagnostic performance (AUC = 0.91). In addition, pancreatic polypeptide (PPY) showed markedly reduced levels in patients with tumors arising in the head of the pancreas, suggesting anatomical specificity. This comprehensive Olink-based proteomic analysis identifies CES3 and LILRB4 as promising plasma biomarkers for early-stage pancreatic cancer and highlights PPY as informative for tumor localization. These findings provide a valuable resource for biomarker discovery and support further validation of these candidates for noninvasive early detection and risk stratification.© 2026 UICC.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains a major unmet clinical challenge, with limited therapeutic strategies capable of effectively modulating neuroimmune dysfunction. Leukocyte immunoglobulin-like receptor B4 (LILRB4/ILT3) has recently emerged as an inhibitory microglial immune checkpoint implicated in ApoE-mediated suppression of amyloid-β (Aβ) clearance and inflammatory signaling, supporting its potential as a therapeutic target in AD. Here, we applied DNA-encoded library (DEL) screening of approximately 3.6 billion compounds to identify small molecule binders of LILRB4. Biophysical validation identified APX1 as a direct LILRB4 ligand with submicromolar affinity, which was further confirmed by cellular thermal shift assay (CETSA). Docking-guided mutagenesis studies defined a discrete ligand-binding interface involving key hotspot residues required for stable target engagement. Functionally, APX1 disrupted the LILRB4-ApoE interaction in orthogonal ELISA and biolayer interferometry assays. In human iPSC-derived microglia, APX1 suppressed SHP1/2 phosphorylation, attenuated NF-κB activation and IL-1β secretion, and restored Aβ42 uptake under ApoE-driven inflammatory conditions. APX1 further demonstrated favorable in vitro developability, metabolic stability, and CNS exposure properties. In the 5xFAD mouse model of AD, oral administration of APX1 improved cognitive performance, reduced cortical and hippocampal Aβ42 burden, suppressed neuroinflammatory cytokines, and decreased activated microglial populations. Collectively, these findings establish APX1 as a promising small molecule modulator of the LILRB4-ApoE signaling axis and support pharmacological targeting of neuroimmune checkpoints as a therapeutic strategy for AD.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
The identification of small molecule modulators of immune checkpoint proteins remains a significant challenge in drug discovery due to the flat, featureless nature of protein-protein interaction interfaces and the characteristically low hit rates observed in conventional high-throughput screening campaigns. Here we report OracleScreen-LILRB4 (HTS-Oracle v3), an ensemble machine learning framework trained on quantitative biophysical screening data from two structurally diverse compound libraries (19,800 compounds total) screened against the myeloid immune checkpoint leukocyte immunoglobulin-like receptor B4 (LILRB4/ILT3). By formulating binding prediction as a regression task targeting continuous ΔFnorm values rather than binary hit classifications, OracleScreen-LILRB4 achieved a mean Spearman R of 0.61 and ROC-AUC of 0.86 under scaffold-aware cross-validation. Prospective virtual screening of a 45,760-member compound library and experimental validation of the top 200 predictions yielded a 28.5% hit rate, representing a 15.0-fold enrichment over baseline, with 16 compounds demonstrating nanomolar-affinity LILRB4 (ILT3) engagement. Lead compounds ORS-22 and ORS-14 restored anti-tumor immune activity across patient-derived colorectal cancer and acute myeloid leukemia co-culture systems, reversing SCG2-mediated immunosuppression and recovering cytotoxic T-cell function. These findings establish OracleScreen-LILRB4 (HTS-Oracle v3) as an effective computational framework for accelerating small molecule discovery against non-enzymatic immune checkpoint targets.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The mouse gene Lilrb4a, an ortholog of human leukocyte immunoglobulin-like receptor B4 (LILRB4), is markedly upregulated in microglia in Alzheimer's disease models and has been implicated in Apolipoprotein E (APOE)-related signaling. However, its contribution to amyloid pathology under an APOE4 background remains unclear. Here, 5xFAD mice carrying human APOE4 were used to assess the impact of Lilrb4a reduction by genetic deletion or antisense oligonucleotide treatment. Both approaches significantly reduced cortical amyloid plaque burden and APOE4-associated cerebral amyloid angiopathy without altering amyloid-β (Aβ) production. Bulk RNA sequencing identified enrichment of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-related and broader metabolic pathways in Lilrb4a-deficient mice. Consistently, biochemical analyses showed reduced p-SHP-2, NF-κB-p65, and p-STAT1, increased p-STAT3, and induction of anti-inflammatory and clearance-associated effectors, including Arg-1, TGF-β, and Cyp2e1. In primary microglia, pharmacological interrogation supported a functional contribution of PPAR-γ signaling to the enhanced Aβ uptake and degradation associated with Lilrb4a suppression, whereas PPAR-γ agonism recapitulated key pro-clearance phenotypes in vitro and attenuated amyloid pathology in vivo. Together, these data support Lilrb4a as an APOE4-associated microglial checkpoint candidate linked to impaired amyloid clearance and identify a PPAR-linked pro-clearance program as a potential downstream component of this response.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Leukocyte immunoglobulin-like receptor B4 (LILRB4, ILT3) is an inhibitory immune checkpoint expressed on myeloid cells, where it contributes to immunosuppression within the tumor microenvironment. Secretogranin 2 (SCG2) has recently been identified as a functional ligand of LILRB4, yet small molecule modulators of this interaction remain unexplored. Here, we report the development of a high-throughput time-resolved fluorescence resonance energy transfer (TR-FRET) assay to interrogate the LILRB4 (ILT3)-SCG2 interaction. The assay demonstrated robust performance and was validated using a blocking anti-LILRB4 antibody, consistent with orthogonal ELISA measurements. Pilot screening of chemical libraries identified 23 primary hits, of which two compounds, BMS-813,160 and PSB-603, showed reproducible, dose-dependent inhibition with TR-FRET IC₅₀ values of 26.7 ± 1.03 µM and 37.2 ± 2.14 µM, respectively. Activity was confirmed by ELISA, supporting the robustness of the assay. This platform enables high-throughput discovery of first-in-class small molecule modulators of the LILRB4-SCG2 immune checkpoint and provides a foundation for targeting myeloid-driven immunosuppression.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The aim of this study was to identify biological processes associated with neuroaxonal degeneration in multiple sclerosis (MS) by analyzing protein patterns linked to neurofilament light (NfL) protein in CSF and serum samples.The highly sensitive proximity extension assay technology was used to quantify protein levels in paired CSF and serum samples from treatment-naïve, early-stage active MS patients (n = 114). The cohort was stratified into above and below median of CSF-NfL level. A discovery phase identified proteins upregulated in CSF, and a validation cohort (n = 128) confirmed findings in a more clinically diverse MS population, including patients receiving disease-modifying therapies.In the discovery cohort, 13 proteins were upregulated in CSF (leukocyte immunoglobulin like receptor B4, CXCL6, CXCL5, cluster of differentiation 38, CCL19, CXCL11, IMPA1, macrophage scavenger receptor 1 (MSR1), CXCL10, monocyte chemotactic protein 2, ITM2A, TNFRSF12A, and CCL23). It is important to note that associations with CCL19, CXCL11, MSR1, CXCL10, TNFRSF12A, and CCL23 were replicated in a validation MS cohort. By contrast, no consistent serum protein profiles associated with serum levels of NfL could be discerned in this group-based analysis. Furthermore, 75 CSF proteins showed a positive adjusted linear association with CSF-NfL, whereas no such significant association remained in the corresponding analysis in serum.The identified and replicated CSF protein profile indicates distinct inflammatory processes associated with ongoing neuroaxonal degeneration. All of these most robust 6 proinflammatory markers-CCL19, CXCL11, MSR1, CXCL10, TNFRSF12A, and CCL23-independently replicated and were individually observed to be relevant in the context of MS. These findings may further elucidate the immunologic pathways underlying disease processes leading to neuroaxonal degeneration.
Hemorrhagic shock/reperfusion (HS/R) injury is associated with high global mortality, and intestinal injury plays a pivotal role in driving systemic complications. This study examined the therapeutic potential of Ginsenoside Rg2 (G-Rg2) in mitigating HS/R intestinal injury and elucidated its relationship involving leukocyte immunoglobulin-like receptor B4 (Lilrb4). Using an established rat HS/R model and hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R) IEC-6 cells, we evaluated the effects of G-Rg2 on intestinal barrier integrity, inflammatory responses, oxidative stress, and apoptosis. The results indicated that G-Rg2 treatment significantly alleviates intestinal mucosal damage, inhibits epithelial apoptosis, and restores tight junction proteins (Occludin, ZO-1). In vitro experiments revealed that G-Rg2 enhances cell viability, suppresses reactive oxygen species (ROS) overproduction, and reduces pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-1β). Mechanistically, G-Rg2 upregulated Lilrb4 expression, and supressed NF-κB pathway activation. Collectively, these findings suggested that G-Rg2 alleviates HS/R-induced intestinal injury by the upregulation of Lilrb4 and the inhibition of the NF-κB pathway.Copyright © 2026 JCBN.
BACKGROUND: Irisin, a cleavage peptide by fibronectin type III domain-containing protein 5 (FNDC5), has been recognized as a promotor of osteogenesis to alleviate osteoporosis (OP). However, the detailed regulatory mechanism of osteogenesis remains unclear. This study uncovered the mechanisms underlying bone formation. METHODS: Osteogenic activity was evaluated by ALP and ARS staining. Expression of target molecules and osteogenic-related factors was assessed by RT-qPCR, Western blotting, and immunohistochemical staining. The binding of euchromatic histone lysine methyltransferase 2 (EHMT2) to distal-less homeobox 3 (DLX3) promoter was validated by ChIP and luciferase reporter assays. Protein interaction, ubiquitination, and small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) modification were determined by Co-IP or Ni2+-NTA pull-down assay. In vivo bone formation was evaluated in a mouse model. Histological analysis was performed by HE and Masson staining. RESULTS: EHMT2 expression was decreased, while DLX3 expression was increased during osteogenic differentiation in vitro. Down-regulation of EHMT2 facilitated osteogenesis via enhancing DLX3 transcription and expression with assistance of H3K9me2. Moreover, EHMT2 was down-regulated by S-phase kinase-associated protein 2 (SKP2)-mediated ubiquitination, whereas protein inhibitor of activated STAT 4 (PIAS4)-mediated SUMOylation exerted an opposite role. Finally, irisin down-regulated EHMT2 via repressing SUMOylation and promoting ubiquitination of EHMT2, thus contributing to bone formation. CONCLUSION: Epigenetic modification-mediated down-regulation of EHMT2 by irisin leads to transcriptional activation of DLX3, thus promoting bone formation.
Glioblastoma (GBM), the most aggressive primary brain tumor, exhibits a profoundly immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME) dominated by M2-like tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs). The leukocyte immunoglobulin-like receptor B4 (LILRB4) has emerged as a critical immunoregulatory molecule implicated in cancer progression, yet its role in GBM remains poorly understood. This study investigated the expression, prognostic significance, and functional role of LILRB4 in TAM-mediated immunosuppression and GBM progression.Expression patterns and prognostic significance of LILRB4 were analyzed using TCGA and validation datasets. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), spatial transcriptomics (ST), and proteogenomics analyses identified cellular sources and spatial distribution of LILRB4. THP-1 cells were differentiated into TAM-like macrophages using PMA and tumor-conditioned medium (TCM) from GBM cells. LILRB4 was silenced using shRNA, and macrophage polarization markers were assessed by RT-qPCR, western blot, and ELISA.LILRB4 was identified as an independent prognostic factor in glioma, with high expression correlating with poor survival. Multiple bioinformatics approaches revealed strong LILRB4-M2 macrophage associations. ST revealed predominant LILRB4 expression in macrophage clusters with strongest tumor cell co-occurrence, identifying LAIR1 as a potential receptor. Proteogenomics analysis showed strong LILRB4 protein-mRNA correlations and associations with M2 markers. LILRB4 regulated macrophage polarization through the STAT3/IL10 axis. Knockdown reversed M2-like phenotype toward M1-like state, decreasing CD163, IL10, and TGFB1 while increasing IL1B and TNFA. TCM from LILRB4 knockdown macrophages significantly inhibited GBM cell proliferation.LILRB4 might functions as a critical regulator of the immunosuppressive TME in GBM by promoting M2 macrophage polarization through the STAT3/IL10 axis. Targeting LILRB4 represents a promising approach for enhancing immunotherapeutic efficacy in GBM.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic systemic autoimmune disease characterized by persistent synovial inflammation and progressive joint destruction. Numerous clinical studies have revealed that exercise is extremely beneficial for the outcome of RA. However, the underlying mechanism remains poorly understood. In the present study, we investigated the therapeutic efficacy of irisin, an exercise hormone, on K/BxN serum and collagen-induced arthritis (CIA), two well established mouse models for RA research. Mechanistically, irisin interacted with ITGAV (integrin subunit alpha V) and ITGB5 (integrin subunit beta 5) to activate mitophagy and remove leaked mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and reactive oxygen species (ROS), which suppressed the activation of NLRP3 (NLR family pyrin domain containing 3) inflammasome and then hindered the pathological process of experimental arthritis. Notably, the beneficial effects of irisin on the treatment of experimental arthritis were significantly abolished in mice with atg5 (autophagy related 5) conditional knockout in myeloid cells (atg5fl/flLyz2). Our study elucidated the underlying mechanism through which exercise alleviated experimental arthritis and offered a feasible therapeutic strategy for RA.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine Ac-TUBA: acetylated TUBA; ACP5: acid phosphatase 5, tartrate resistant; AIM2: absent in melanoma 2; ANOVA: analysis of variance; ATP: adenosine triphosphate; BAF: bafilomycin A1; BV:TV: bone volume per total volume; BMD: bone mineral density; BMDMs: bone marrow-derived macrophages; CASP1: caspase 1; CTSB: cathepsin B; CIA: collagen-indcued arthritis; DNM1L: dynamin 1 like; CYCS: cytochrome c, somatic; EtBr: ethidium bromide; FNDC5: fibronectin type III domain containing 5; FL-GSDMD: GSDMD full length; GSDMD: gasdermin D; HE: hematoxylin and eosin; iBMDMs: immortalized bone marrow-derived macrophages; IL1B: interleukin 1 beta; IL6: interleukin 6; IL18: interleukin 18; LDH: lactate dehydrogenase; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; MAP1LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MSU: monosodium urate; mtROS: mitochondrial reactive oxygen species; mtDNA: mitochondrial DNA; NLRC4: NLR family CARD domain containing 4; NLRP1: NLR family pyrin domain containing 1; NLRP3: NLR family pyrin domain containing 3; NT-GSDMD: GSDMD N-terminal fragment; NAC: N-acetylcysteine; ox-mtDNA: oxidized mitochondrial DNA; PYCARD: PYD and CARD domain containing; PRKAA: protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha 1; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; RA: rheumatoid arthritis; ROS: reactive oxygen species; SD: standard deviation; SiO2: silicon dioxide; SQSTM1: sequestosome 1; Tb.Th: trabecular thickness; Tb.N: trabecular number; Tp.Sp: trabecular separation; TNF/TNF-α: tumor necrosis factor; TOMM20: translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20; TUBA: tubulin alpha; ULK1: unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1; WT: wild type.
Hepatic ischemia/reperfusion injury (IRI) is a major complication occurring in hemorrhagic shock, liver resection, and transplantation. Big mitogen-activated kinase-1 (BMK1), a member of the mitogen-activated protein kinases family, is essential for regulating endothelial cell integrity and organ development.We explored the putative role of BMK1 in human liver transplant recipients and in a murine model of partial warm liver IRI.Liver biopsies from adult transplant patients (n = 60) revealed that increased intrahepatic BMK1 expression was associated with well-preserved histology and improved graft function. In mice, the ischemia insult (90 min) induced hepatocellular BMK1 expression, peaking at 6 h of reperfusion. Inhibiting intrahepatic BMK1 (siRNA/chemically) made livers more vulnerable to IR stress, as evidenced by elevated serum alanine aminotransferase levels, damaged hepatic architecture, increased necrosis, and inflammation. Conversely, BMK1-overexpression protected livers from IR stress in a Krüppel-like factor 4 (KLF4)-dependent manner. Further in vivo and in vitro experiments confirmed that BMK1 overexpression upregulated hepatic yes-associated protein (YAP) mRNA/protein levels and promoted YAP dephosphorylation, whereas YAP silencing abrogated the protective effects of BMK1. The hypoxia-reoxygenation in vitro assay indicated that hepatocellular BMK1 regulated YAP function via itchy E3 ubiquitin protein ligase-related ubiquitination to large tumor suppressor homolog 1. Hypoxia-reoxygenation stress in BMK1-overexpressed hepatocytes resulted in increased intracellular itchy E3 ubiquitin protein ligase and decreased phosphorylated large tumor suppressor homolog 1, whereas no change in the phosphorylation level of mammalian sterile 20-like protein kinase-1. Furthermore, dual hepatocyte immunofluorescence staining revealed that BMK1 relied on the nuclear YAP-KLF4 cooperation, as hepatic deficiency of either BMK1, YAP, or KLF4 enhanced the severity of hepatic IRI.This study documents the crucial role/underlying mechanism of BMK1 signaling and points to a novel target to minimize hepatocellular dysfunction in IR-stressed liver transplantation.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.
Distal ischemic necrosis remains a major challenge in reconstructive surgery. Mitochondria and lysosomes interact via signaling and membrane contacts to maintain cellular homeostasis. Mitochondrial-derived peptide MOTS-c, encoded by the MT-RNR1/12S rRNA open reading frame, enhances mitochondrial function by reducing reactive oxygen species (ROS) and stabilizing the membrane potential, potentially preserving lysosomal integrity and reducing lysosomal membrane permeabilization (LMP). This study investigated the protective effects and underlying mechanisms of MOTS-c in ischemic flaps. RNA sequencing explored MOTS-c mechanisms in ischemic flaps. Tissue clearing, laser speckle contrast imaging and Doppler analyses revealed improved blood flow perfusion following MOTS-c treatment. Histological staining (HE, Masson, F-CHP) demonstrated enhanced angiogenesis and collagen remodeling. Western blotting, ELISA, and immunofluorescence were used to assess pyroptosis, macroautophagy/autophagy, LMP, and MAPK1/ERK2-MAPK3/ERK1-NFKB/NF-κB pathway-related proteins. MOTS-c reduced endothelial pyroptosis, enhanced autophagy, and attenuated LMP in ischemic flaps. Mechanistically, in vivo overexpression of PLA2G4A/cPLA2 (phospholipase A2, group IVA (calcium, calcium dependent)) via AAV confirmed that MOTS-c enhances autophagy and reduces pyroptosis and LMP by suppressing PLA2G4A phosphorylation. Furthermore, MOTS-c inhibited PLA2G4A via the MAPK1-MAPK3-NFKB signaling cascade, thereby reducing LMP and enhancing flap survival. These findings suggest that MOTS-c restores cellular homeostasis by targeting the PLA2G4A-LMP axis, representing a promising therapeutic strategy for improving outcomes in ischemic flap surgery.Abbreviations: AA = arachidonic acid, AAV = adeno-associated virus, ACTA2/α-SMA = actin alpha 2, smooth muscle, aorta, ALs = autolysosomes, BECN1 = beclin 1, CASP1 = caspase 1, CQ = chloroquine, CTSB = cathepsin B, CTSD = cathepsin D, CTSL = cathepsin L, Co-IP = co-immunoprecipitation, DEGs = differentially expressed genes, ELISA = enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, F-CHP = 5-FAM-conjugated collagen hybridizing peptide staining, GSDMD = gasdermin D, GO = gene Ontology, GPT/ALT = glutamic pyruvic transaminase, soluble, GOT1/AST = glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase 1, soluble, HE = hematoxylin-eosin, HUVECs = human umbilical vein endothelial cells, IP/MS = immunoprecipitation coupled with mass spectrometry, IL1B/IL-1β = interleukin 1 beta, IL18 = interleukin 18, IP = intraperitoneal injection, IV = intravenous injection, LDBF = laser Doppler blood flow, LMP = lysosomal membrane permeability, MAP1LC3/LC3 = microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3, MAPK = mitogen-activated protein kinase, NAGLU = alpha-N-acetylglucosaminidase (Sanfilippo disease IIIB), NFKB/NF-κB = nuclear factor kappa B, NLRP1 = NLR family pyrin domain containing 1, NLRP3 = NLR family pyrin domain containing 3, PECAM1/CD31 = platelet/endothelial cell adhesion molecule 1, PLA2G4A/cPLA2 = phospholipase A2, group IVA (cytosolic, calcium-dependent), PYCARD/ASC = PYD and CARD domain containing, PIK3C3/VPS34 = phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase catalytic subunit type 3, PMA = phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate, ROS = reactive oxygen speciesSQSTM1/p62 = sequestosome 1, SPR = surface plasmon resonance, scRNA-seq = single-cell RNA sequencing, UMAP = uniform manifold approximation and projection, WB = western blotting.
Endometrial cancer (EC) is one of the most prevalent cancers affecting the female reproductive system and originates from the uterine epithelium, posing a significant health burden to postmenopausal women. As an E3 ubiquitin ligase, itchy E3 ubiquitin protein ligase (ITCH) plays a key role in the progression of multiple kinds of solid cancers, but its function in EC remains unclear. This work aims to explore the roles of ITCH during the carcinogenesis of EC.The messenger RNA (mRNA) level of ITCH in 47 paired EC tissue and adjacent non-tumor controls was examined by quantitative polymerase chain reaction. The protein level of ITCH in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded EC tissue and adjacent non-tumor controls from 47 patients with EC was detected by immunohistochemistry. Data on the RNA levels of ITCH and forkhead box P1 (FOXP1), along with prognostic information for 541 patients with EC, were obtained from the Human Protein Atlas database. A chromatin immunoprecipitation assay was employed to investigate the interaction between FOXP1 and the promoter of the KRAS proto-oncogene GTPase (KRAS).Both ITCH mRNA and protein levels are upregulated in EC tissues. Patients with lower ITCH expression exhibit prolonged overall survival. In EC tissue samples, ITCH protein level negatively correlates with the FOXP1 protein level. ITCH interacts with FOXP1 in EC cells and promotes its ubiquitination and subsequent degradation. FOXP1 inhibits KRAS expression in EC cells by binding to its promoter region. ITCH overexpression suppresses the FOXP1-KRAS axis, leading to increased proliferation and reduced apoptosis of EC cells.ITCH functions as an oncogene in EC, promoting carcinogenesis by inducing FOXP1 degradation and upregulating KRAS expression.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by Scientific Scholar.
The regulator of G-protein signaling 2 (RGS2) plays a key role during pregnancy, whose dysregulation is closely associated with the progression of gestational disorders such as preeclampsia (PE). Therefore, investigating the downstream mechanisms regarding to RGS2-mediated biological events in trophoblasts would provide a better understanding of maintenance and progression of pregnancy. The present study describes the roles and underlying mechanisms of a regulation loop between RGS2 and the Hippo pathway in human trophoblasts, and additionally clarify that RGS2 independently mediates Connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) protein degradation by promoting its ubiquitination. At the molecular level, the ectopic expression of RGS2 deactivates the Hippo signaling but destabilizes CTGF by the Dual-specificity phosphatase 1(DUSP1)-Itchy E3 ubiquitin protein ligase (ITCH)-mediated ubiquitination of CTGF. Reciprocally, as a transcriptional co-activator, TAZ transactivates RGS2 through binding to and activating CREB. Consistently, the results could be verified in transgenic mouse placentas. Our results therefore identify the critical role of the RGS2-Hippo loop in regulating physiological function of trophoblasts during gestation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Osteosarcoma remains a highly aggressive malignant tumor with strong metastatic potential and limited therapeutic options. E3 ubiquitin ligases, particularly the HECT-type family, regulate oncogenic pathways via targeted protein degradation. Among them, Itchy E3 ubiquitin protein ligase (ITCH) has been implicated in poor prognosis in multiple cancers. However, its functional effects and clinical relevance in osteosarcoma pathogenesis remain completely unexplored. Herein, ITCH expression in osteosarcoma tissues was detected using qRT-PCR, Western blot, and IHC. In vitro and in vivo, the function of ITCH was evaluated by soft agar colony formation assay, Transwell assay, CCK8 assay, wound healing assay, immunofluorescence, flow cytometric analysis, and xenograft tumor assay. Downstream targets were further investigated using proteomic analysis, Western blot, and immunoprecipitation. ITCH was aberrantly overexpressed in osteosarcoma tissues, exhibiting a strong negative correlation with patient survival. Mechanistically, ITCH directly bound P53 and mediated its ubiquitination and degradation. ITCH-driven P53 loss enhanced malignant phenotypes, whereas ITCH knockdown restored P53 stability. This study demonstrates that ITCH functions as an oncogene in osteosarcoma by targeting P53 for degradation and suggests ITCH as a promising therapeutic target.These findings define a molecular mechanism underlying the oncogenic role of ITCH through P53 ubiquitination-dependent degradation.©2026 The Authors; Published by the American Association for Cancer Research.
The nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain (NOD)-like receptor family pyrin domain-containing 1 (NLRP1) and NLRP3 inflammasomes are activated in temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE), leading to neuroinflammation, pyroptosis, and neuronal injury. Protein phosphatase 2 A (PP2A) and the toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4)–p38 MAPK signaling pathway participate in regulating these inflammasomes. Although blocking transient receptor potential vanilloid 4 (TRPV4) alleviates inflammation and neuronal damage after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (PISE), the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we found that NLRP1 and NLRP3 expression and activation were markedly increased in the hippocampus during the acute phase post-PISE, accompanied by enhanced pyroptosis and inflammatory responses. Both PP2A activity and TLR4–p38 MAPK signaling were upregulated. Pharmacological inhibition revealed that PP2A primarily drove NLRP3 activation, whereas TLR4–p38 MAPK signaling promoted NLRP1 activation, collectively contributing to pyroptosis and neuronal injury. TRPV4 blockade simultaneously suppressed PP2A activity and TLR4–p38 MAPK signaling, thereby inhibiting NLRP1/NLRP3 inflammasome activation and exerting neuroprotective effects. Conversely, TRPV4 activation with GSK1016790A promoted inflammasome activation, pyroptosis, and activation of PP2A and TLR4–p38 MAPK signaling; these effects were attenuated by inhibiting PP2A or TLR4–p38 MAPK. In HT-22 cells, TRPV4 activation activated the TLR4–p38 MAPK–NLRP1 axis, and NLRP1 knockdown alleviated pyroptosis. Finally, inhibition of TRPV4, PP2A, NLRP3, or NLRP1 markedly reduced seizure frequency and duration in PISE mice. Collectively, these findings suggest that TRPV4 blockade suppresses the PP2A–NLRP3 and TLR4–p38 MAPK–NLRP1 pathways, attenuating neuroinflammation and pyroptosis, and thereby reducing seizure activity during the acute phase following PISE.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41873699 is a review article
Single-cell analysis showed increased complement factor H, endoplasmic reticulum aminopeptidase 2, lectin, mannose binding 2 like, pyrin domain containing 1, iduronidase, and gamma-glutamyl hydrolase expression in mesangial cells. Complement factor H was protective, whereas complement factor H-related protein 1 and endoplasmic reticulum aminopeptidase 2 increased IgA nephropathy risk. Genetic analyses implicated neutrophil and white blood cell counts, along with selected CD4 + T-cell traits, in IgA nephropathy.IgA nephropathy remains the most frequent primary glomerular disease worldwide with poor outcomes leading to ESKD. Nevertheless, the causal contributions to its pathogenesis are still not fully understood.We conducted a Mendelian randomization (MR) phenome-wide association study to identify potential causal factors of IgA nephropathy, among 791 plasma proteins (European population), 1042 plasma proteins (Asian population), 17 circulating immune cells, and 731 immune cell traits. FinnGen database ( N =412,181, N case=653) of IgA nephropathy was applied for replication. Reverse MR and Bayesian colocalization were performed to consolidate the results. Further mechanistic insights were pursued using pathway enrichment and protein-protein interaction analysis. Further validations were conducted by single-cell transcriptomic analysis and human plasma samples testing. Animal experiments were performed to detect the potential mechanism.MR phenome-wide association study of European protein quantitative trait loci identified complement factor H (CFH) as a significant protective factor for IgA nephropathy (odds ratio [OR], 0.54; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.45 to 0.65; P = 1.47E-10), whereas CFH-related protein 1 (OR, 1.21; 95% CI, 1.12 to 1.31; P = 8.49E-7) and endoplasmic reticulum aminopeptidase 2 (OR, 1.14; 95% CI, 1.07 to 1.21; P = 7.33×E-6) were risk factors. Five causal proteins were replicated in FinnGen database. Four significant causal proteins were identified in the Asian population. Causal associations were found between higher neutrophil counts and IgA nephropathy risk. Top risk immune cell traits included activated and secreting Treg % cluster of differentiation (CD)4+, CD25hi %CD4+, and absolute counts of T cells. Single-cell transcriptomic analysis revealed elevated expression of CFH, endoplasmic reticulum aminopeptidase 2, lectin, mannose binding 2 like, α -L-iduronidase, and gamma-glutamyl hydrolase in mesangial cells from IgA nephropathy patients, and higher plasma levels of iduronidase and pyrin domain containing 1 (PYDC1) in IgA nephropathy cases. In silico analysis and mice experiments showed PYDC1, caspase1, nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain-like receptor family, pyrin domain containing 3 (NLRP3), and IL1 β were elevated in IgA nephropathy kidneys.Our study suggested that specific proteins, cell types, and immune traits have causal effects in IgA nephropathy pathogenesis, particularly implicating complement components, PYDC1 and certain CD4 + T-cell subsets as priorities for further mechanistic research and therapeutic development.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. on behalf of the American Society of Nephrology.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a highly aggressive primary liver malignancy characterized by limited therapeutic options and poor prognosis. Within the tumor microenvironment (TME), tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) predominantly exhibit an M2-like phenotype, contributing to immune escape and tumor progression. Zymogen granule protein 16 (ZG16) has been reported to be downregulated in HCC, but its precise biological function and molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood. Therefore, we aimed to investigate the impact of ZG16 on HCC cell metastasis and TAM infiltration, as well as to elucidate its molecular mechanism.Gain- and loss-of-function assays were used to verify the effect of ZG16 on HCC cell metastasis, as well as the recruitment and M2 polarization of TAMs. The underlying mechanism of ZG16 was explored by immunoprecipitation-liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (IP-LC/MS) analysis, co-immunoprecipitation (co-IP) assay, and GST pull-down assay.Our results demonstrated that ZG16 overexpression significantly inhibited metastasis of HCC cells while also suppressing the recruitment and M2 polarization of TAMs, suggesting its dual role in both tumor cell-intrinsic and microenvironmental regulation. Notably, sorting nexin 9 (SNX9), a facilitator of HCC, was identified as a downstream target of ZG16. Mechanistically, we uncovered that ZG16 physically interacted with SNX9 and promoted its protein degradation through the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. Functional rescue experiments provided compelling evidence that SNX9 overexpression effectively counteracted ZG16-mediated suppression of both HCC progression and TAM M2 polarization. Further mechanism exploration confirmed that ZG16 promoted the ubiquitination and degradation of SNX9 by recruiting itchy E3 ubiquitin protein ligase (ITCH).Our findings certify that ZG16 suppresses tumor progression and M2 polarization of TAMs in HCC through ITCH-mediated ubiquitination and subsequent degradation of SNX9. The ZG16/ITCH/SNX9 axis may represent an important regulatory pathway and potential therapeutic target for HCC.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Asian Pacific Association for the Study of the Liver.
Yifei Sanjie Formula (YFSJF), a traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) formulation, has been clinically observed to enhance the efficacy of programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) blockade in patients with advanced lung adenocarcinoma. However, the underlying mechanisms of its effect remain unclear. This study aimed to clarify the molecular mechanism by which YFSJF enhances the efficacy of PD-1 inhibitors, with a focus on its role in regulating the ubiquitin-specific protease 7 (USP7)-nuclear receptor subfamily 1 group H member 4 (NR1H4)-bile acid metabolism axis.Using in vitro and in vivo models, including Lewis lung carcinoma (LLC) cells and a male C57BL/6 mouse xenograft model, we evaluated the effects of YFSJF on tumor growth, migration, invasion, and the synergistic effect with PD-1 inhibitors. Metabolomic analysis, transcriptomic profiling, and molecular biology were employed to examine the role of the USP7-NR1H4-bile acid metabolism axis.YFSJF significantly inhibited the proliferation, migration, and invasion of lung cancer cells while enhancing the antitumor efficacy of PD-1 blockade by modulating immune responses. USP7 was found to be highly expressed in lung cancer tissues and was associated with poor prognosis. We further found that YFSJF promoted the ubiquitin-mediated degradation of NR1H4 by downregulating USP7, thereby altering the levels of bile acid metabolites such as taurochenodeoxycholic acid (TCDCA) and glycocholic acid (GCA). USP7 knockdown impaired NR1H4 stability via the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway, influencing bile acid metabolism and immune-related pathways.YFSJF regulates bile acid metabolism reprogramming through the USP7-NR1H4-bile acid metabolism axis to affect immune-related pathways and enhance the efficacy of PD-1 inhibitors. These findings provide insights into the mechanisms underlying the immunomodulatory role of YFSJF and support its use as a complement to immunotherapy in lung cancer treatment.© AME Publishing Company.
Nuclear Receptor Subfamily 1, Group H, Member 4 (NR1H4) related cholestasis is a recently described entity, which can rapidly lead to liver failure in infancy. Outcomes of liver transplantation (LT) in NR1H4 disease, such as extrahepatic manifestations and catch-up in somatic growth, are poorly described.In this report, we describe the role of early LT in a 3-month-old infant genetically diagnosed to have NR1H4 disease, presenting to us with decompensated cirrhosis and intractable coagulopathy.A 2.5-month-old boy presented with decompensated liver disease. Homozygosity for a predictably pathogenic variant in NR1H4, encoding the farnesoid X receptor (FXR), was diagnosed by genomic sequencing. Due to rapidly evolving liver disease, he underwent a living donor liver transplantation (LDLT) with a left lateral segment from his father. Immunostaining of the explant demonstrated loss of expression of both bile salt export pump (BSEP) and multidrug resistance protein 3 (MDR3) along biliary canaliculi and of FXR in hepatocyte nuclei. The child is well at 14 months after LT and has had no medical or surgical complications. Graft function is preserved, and growth and development are age-appropriate. In our experience and that of others, infants with NR1H4 disease often die before LT can be offered, and in only a few instances have outcomes of LT been described.Early LT is recommended in NR1H4 disease of infancy, a disorder with high mortality. LDLT can permit survival with a favorable clinical outcome as seen in our patient.© 2025 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Cisplatin is one of effect chemotherapeutic drugs for triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). However, cisplatin chemoresistance often generate in a notable proportion of TNBC patients, leading therapeutic failure. Thus, identification of key regulatory mechanisms for chemoresistance is important. Here, we aimed to study the functions and regulatory mechanisms of CLEC3B in cisplatin chemoresistance in TNBC.MTT assay, colony formation assay and Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) assay were employed to investigate the role of CLEC3B in cisplatin (CDDP) resistance in TNBC. Fe2+ Current assay and MDA level assay were used to determine CLEC3B's role in ferroptosis. Co-Immunoprecipitation was used to determine the interaction proteins of CLEC3B. Western blotting assay were performed to determine CLEC3B's role in solute carrier family 39 member 8 (SLC39A8) and solute carrier family 39 member 14 (SLC39A14) levels.Here, we find that CLEC3B was downregulated in TNBC tissues, especially in relapsed TNBC tissues. TNBC patients with high CLEC3B levels had better prognosis than those with low CLEC3B levels after chemotherapy. Functional assays showed that CLEC3B promoted CDDP chemosensitivity. Mechanistic assays found that CLEC3B promoted CDDP chemosensitivity via inducing ferroptosis. Moreover, CLEC3B interacted with SLC39A8 and SLC39A14 and knockdown of them reversed the effect of CLEC3B overexpression on chemosensitivity.In summary, CLEC3B promotes chemosensitivity via interacting with SLC39A8 and SLC39A14 to induce ferroptosis.© 2025. The Author(s).
Ovarian clear cell carcinoma (OCCC) is characterized by poor prognosis and limited early diagnostic markers. Identifying molecular distinctions between OCCC and the more common high-grade serous ovarian cancer (HGSC) is critical to developing targeted diagnostic and therapeutic strategies for improved clinical outcomes.We retrieved the mRNA expression profiles of OCCC and HGSC from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. To identify differentially immune-related genes (DIRGs) linked to OCCC. We assessed DIRGs functional enrichment and built a protein-protein interaction (PPI) to explore DIRGs interactions. Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO) regression model and Multiple Support Vector Machine Recursive Feature Elimination (mSVM-RFE) methods were applied to identify predictive genes. The diagnostic performance of these candidate genes was evaluated using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves. A nomogram was constructed to predict OCCC. We further validated key DIRGs' diagnostic ability via a validation set and immunohistochemistry (IHC). The CIBERSORT algorithm was used to analyze correlations between DIRGs and immune cell types in OCCC.We detected 10 DIRGs in OCCC compared to HGSC. These genes were mainly linked to collagen-rich extracellular matrix, Phosphoinositide-3 Kinase- Protein Kinase B (PI3K-AKT) pathway, and transcriptional dysregulation in cancer. Nuclear receptor subfamily 1 group H member 4 (NR1H4) and Interleukin-4 Receptor (IL4R) emerged as potential biomarkers for OCCC (AUCNR1H4 = 0.809; AUCIL4R = 0.840). In the validation cohort, AUCNR1H4 = 0.848 and AUCIL4R = 0.821, respectively. IHC revealed higher expression levels of NR1H4 and IL4R in OCCC (P < 0.05). Additionally, NR1H4 correlated positively with resting memory T cells and neutrophils, while IL4R correlated with resting Natural Killer (NK) cells and neutrophils.NR1H4 and IL4R are promising immune-related diagnostic biomarkers for OCCC, with potential roles in neutrophil-mediated tumor microenvironment modulation. These findings enhance understanding of OCCC pathogenesis and provide a foundation for developing targeted diagnostic tools and immunotherapeutic strategies.Copyright © 2025 Ke, Liang, Zhou, Xie, Huang, Sheng, Wang, Zhou and Wu.
The pathogenesis of antituberculosis drug-induced liver injury (AT-DILI) remains largely unknown. The current investigation aimed to determine the genetic contribution of the nuclear receptor subfamily 1 Group I member 3 (NR1I3) and nuclear receptor subfamily 1 Group H member 4 (NR1H4) genes to the risk of AT-DILI in the Chinese population.A 1:4 matched case‒control study was conducted, and five single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the NR1I3 and NR1H4 genes were detected and assessed. Utilizing a multivariate conditional logistic regression model, the effects of haplotype and genotype on the risk of AT-DILI were examined. Extended subgroup analysis was carried out based on sex. The distribution of the peak value of serum liver enzymes also compared among different genotypes.224 AT-DILI cases and 896 controls were included in this study. No significant difference was observed in genotypes or haplotypes frequencies between AT-DILI cases and controls. However, comparisons of liver function indicators revealed significant differences in the peak values of alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and total bilirubin (TBil) among patients with different genotypes of NR1H4 rs56163822 (GG vs. GT vs. TT, 27.1 U/L vs. 26.0 U/L vs. 23.0 U/L, p = 0.020; 34.0 U/L vs. 31.0 U/L vs. 30.6 U/L, p = 0.008; 15.5 μmol/L vs. 15.0 μmol/L vs. 13.7 μmol/L, p = 0.029, respectively), as well as in the peak values of ALT and AST among male patients with different genotypes of NR1H4 rs56163822 (29.0 U/L vs. 26.9 U/L vs. 22.6 U/L, p = 0.002; 34.0 U/L vs. 32.0 U/L vs. 30.5 U/L, p = 0.019, respectively).Based on this 1:4 individual-matched case‒control study, the SNP rs56163822 in the NR1H4 gene may be linked to the susceptibility to AT-DILI in Chinese patients receiving anti-TB treatment. Further studies in larger varied populations are needed to validate our findings.Copyright © 2024 Xu, Chen, Lu, Cheng, He, Pan, Zhang, Yi and Tang.
Solute carrier family 39, member 8 (SLC39A8), is a transmembrane transporter that mediates the cellular uptake of zinc, iron, and manganese (Mn). Human genetic studies document the involvement of SLC39A8 in Mn homeostasis, brain development, and function. However, the role and pathophysiological mechanisms of SLC39A8 in the central nervous system remain elusive. We generated Slc39a8 neuron-specific knockout (Slc39a8-NSKO) mice to study SLC39A8 function in neurons. The Slc39a8-NSKO mice displayed markedly decreased Mn levels in the whole brain and brain regions, especially the cerebellum. Radiotracer studies using 54Mn revealed that Slc39a8-NSKO mice had impaired brain uptake of Mn. Slc39a8-NSKO cerebellums exhibited morphological defects and abnormal dendritic arborization of Purkinje cells. Reduced neurogenesis and increased apoptotic cell death occurred in the cerebellar external granular layer of Slc39a8-NSKO mice. Brain Mn deficiency in Slc39a8-NSKO mice was associated with motor dysfunction. Unbiased RNA-Seq analysis revealed downregulation of key pathways relevant to neurodevelopment and synaptic plasticity, including cAMP signaling pathway genes. We further demonstrated that Slc39a8 was required for the optimal transcriptional response to the cAMP-mediated signaling pathway. In summary, our study highlighted the essential roles of SLC39A8 in brain Mn uptake and cerebellum development and functions.
This study investigates the novel therapeutic potential of quercetin and kaempferol, two bioactive compounds derived from Carthamus tinctorius L., in treating nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) by modulating the bile acid receptor NR1H4 (Nuclear Receptor Subfamily 1 Group H Member 4) and its associated metabolic pathways. A rat model of NAFLD was established, and RNA sequencing and proteomics were carefully employed to identify differential gene expressions associated with the disease. The active components of Carthamus tinctorius L. were screened, followed by the construction of a comprehensive network that maps the interactions between these components, NR1H4 and NAFLD-related pathways. Both in vitro (using HepG2 cells) and in vivo experiments were conducted to evaluate the effects on NR1H4 expression levels through Western blot and RT-qPCR analyses. Our findings identify NR1H4 as a pivotal target in NAFLD. Network pharmacology analysis indicates that quercetin and kaempferol play crucial roles in combating NAFLD, with in vitro and in vivo experiments confirming their ability to mitigate hepatocyte steatosis by enhancing NR1H4 expression. Notably, the protective effects of these compounds were inhibited by the NR1H4 antagonist guggulsterone, highlighting the importance of NR1H4 upregulation. This study demonstrates the novel therapeutic efficacy of quercetin and kaempferol from Carthamus tinctorius L. in treating NAFLD through NR1H4 upregulation. This mechanism contributes to the regulation of lipid metabolism, improvement of liver function, reduction of inflammation, and alleviation of oxidative stress, offering a promising direction for future NAFLD treatment strategies.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Parkinson's Disease (PD) is a degenerative disease driven by neuroinflammation. Nuclear receptor subfamily 1 group H member 4 (NR1H4), a nuclear receptor involved in metabolic and inflammatory regulation, is found to be widely expressed in central nervous system. Previous studies suggested the protective role of NR1H4 in various diseases related to inflammation, whether NR1H4 participates in PD progression remains unknown. To investigate the role of NR1H4 in neuroinflammation regulation, especially astrocyte activation during PD, siRNA and adenovirus were used to manipulate Nr1h4 expression. RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq), quantitative real-time PCR, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, Chromatin immunoprecipitation and western blotting were performed to further study the underlying mechanisms. We identified that NR1H4 was down-regulated during PD progression. In vitro experiments suggested that Nr1h4 knockdown led to inflammatory response, reactive oxygen species generation and astrocytes activation whereasNr1h4 overexpressionhad the opposite effects. The results of RNA-seq on astrocytes revealed that NR1H4 manipulated neuroinflammation in a CEBPβ/NF-κB dependent manner. Additionally, pharmacological activation of NR1H4 via Obeticholic acid ameliorated neuroinflammation and promoted neuronal survival. Our study first proved the neuroprotective effects of NR1H4against PD via inhibiting astrocyte activation and neuroinflammation in a CEBPβ/NF-κB dependent manner.Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Hepatic oxidative injury induced by free fatty acids (FFA) and metabolic disorders of bile acids (BA) increase the risk of metabolic diseases in dairy cows during perinatal period. However, the effects of FFA on BA metabolism remained poorly understood. In present study, high concentrations of FFA caused cell impairment, oxidative stress and BA overproduction. FFA treatment increased the expression of BA synthesis-related genes [cholesterol 7a-hydroxylase (CYP7A1), hydroxy-delta-5-steroid dehydrogenase, 3 beta- and steroid delta-isomerase 7, sterol 12α-hydroxylase, sterol 27-hydroxylase and oxysterol 7α-hydroxylase], whereas reduced BA exportation gene (ATP binding cassette subfamily C member 1) and inhibited farnesoid X receptor/small heterodimer partner (FXR/SHP) pathway in bovine hepatocytes. Knockdown of nuclear receptor subfamily 1 group H member 4 (NR1H4) worsened FFA-caused oxidative damage and BA production, whereas overexpression NR1H4 ameliorated FFA-induced BA production and cell oxidative damage. Besides, reducing BA synthesis through knockdown of CYP7A1 can alleviate oxidative stress and hepatocytes impairment caused by FFA. In summary, these data demonstrated that regulation of FXR/SHP-mediated BA metabolism may be a promising target in improving hepatic oxidative injury of dairy cows during high levels of FFA challenges.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Most breast cancers do not respond to immune checkpoint inhibitors and there is an urgent need to identify novel sensitization strategies. Herein, we uncovered that activation of the TBK-IFN pathway that is mediated by the TBK1 adapter protein AZI2 is a potent strategy for this purpose. Our initial observations showed that RB1CC1 depletion leads to accumulation of AZI2, in puncta along with selective macroautophagy/autophagy cargo receptors, which are both required for TBK1 activation. Specifically, disrupting the selective autophagy function of RB1CC1 was sufficient to sustain AZI2 puncta accumulation and TBK1 activation. AZI2 then mediates downstream activation of DDX3X, increasing its interaction with IRF3 for transcription of pro-inflammatory chemokines. Consequently, we performed a screen to identify inhibitors that can induce the AZI2-TBK1 pathway, and this revealed Lys05 as a pharmacological agent that induced pro-inflammatory chemokine expression and CD8+ T cell infiltration into tumors. Overall, we have identified a distinct AZI2-TBK1-IFN signaling pathway that is responsive to selective autophagy blockade and can be activated to make breast cancers more immunogenic.Abbreviations: AZI2/NAP1: 5-azacytidine induced 2; CALCOCO2: calcium binding and coiled-coil domain 2; DDX3X: DEAD-box helicase 3 X-linked; FCCP: carbonyl cyanide p-triflouromethoxyphenylhydrazone; a protonophore that depolarizes the mitochondrial inner membrane; ICI: immune checkpoint inhibitor; IFN: interferon; NBR1: NBR1 autophagy cargo receptor; OPTN: optineurin; RB1CC1/FIP200: RB1 inducible coiled-coil 1; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TAX1BP1: Tax1 binding protein 1; TBK1: TANK binding kinase 1.
Monitoring microglial activation mediators remains challenging in neurodegeneration. Few imaging studies track amyloid-β (Aβ)-linked microglial dynamics across a wide field of view with high spatiotemporal resolution. Leveraging the triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (TREM2), a pivotal Alzheimer's disease (AD) biomarker that enhances Aβ clearance while suppressing neuroinflammation, we developed a dual-modal probe, TREM2-ICG, by conjugating a TREM2-specific antibody with indocyanine green (ICG), an FDA-approved dye, for robust in vivo photoacoustic and near-infrared-II (NIR-II) fluorescence imaging. Multi-wavelength photoacoustic microscopy imaged AD pathology at 532 nm (hemoglobin, vasculature), 559 nm (Aβ probe AOI987), and 780 nm (TREM2-ICG for peri‑plaque microglia). Time-resolved NIR-II imaging (30 frames/sec) tracked Aβ-oligomer-induced microglial displacement at ∼50 µm resolution, showing a rapid chemotaxis phenomenon. Immunofluorescence-verified TREM2-microglia plaque engagement demonstrates AD pathogenesis. Overall, our multiscale photoacoustic-fluorescence imaging resolved cortex-wide Aβ-microglial interactions, combining wide-field, high-speed, and deep-penetration to overcome confocal depth and two-photon field of view limits. This enabled in vivo tracking of microglial responses to Aβ, revealing potential for investigating AD-specific mechanisms.© 2026 The Authors.
Chronic inflammation is a key driver of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. Notably, anti-inflammatory therapies have demonstrated efficacy in reducing cardiac events. We previously reported that TREM2 (triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2) promotes foam cell formation in atherosclerosis. Elevated levels of soluble TREM2 (sTREM2) have been observed in the plasma of patients with atherosclerosis. This study sought to investigate the pathological role of sTREM2 in the progression of atherosclerosis, elucidate its underlying mechanistic pathways, and propose potential targeted therapeutic interventions.Plasma sTREM2 levels were measured in patients with carotid atherosclerosis and in apolipoprotein E-deficient (Apoe-/-) mice. To study the functional role of sTREM2, we administered recombinant sTREM2 to Apoe-/- mice and used macrophage-specific Hsp90ab1 knockout mice (Hsp90ab1Mac-KO). Mechanistic pathways were investigated using immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry, and surface plasmon resonance imaging was used to identify sTREM2 antagonists.Plasma sTREM2 levels correlated with atherosclerotic burden in both humans and mice. Exogenous sTREM2 administration exacerbated plaque progression in Apoe-/- mice, an effect abolished in Hsp90ab1Mac-KO mice. Mechanistically, sTREM2 binds to HSP90β (heat shock protein 90 beta), enhancing its interaction with the IKKs (IκB kinase complex), thereby activating the IκBα/NF-κB P65 pathway. This activation potentiates monocyte adhesion and chemotaxis and enhances macrophage inflammatory activation signatures in atherosclerotic lesions-effects that were reversed on myeloid-specific Hsp90ab1 deletion. Additionally, we identified 3-bromopyruvate as a small-molecule antagonist that selectively disrupts the sTREM2/HSP90β interaction and attenuates atherosclerosis.sTREM2 promotes proatherogenic myeloid recruitment and macrophage inflammatory activation via HSP90β-dependent NF-κB activation. Genetic and pharmacological approaches establish the sTREM2/HSP90β axis as a druggable target, with 3-bromopyruvate demonstrating translational potential for atherosclerosis therapy.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42500791 is a review article
Doxorubicin is a widely used chemotherapeutic agent, but its clinical application is hindered by severe cardiotoxicity. Among immune cells, Cx3cr1+ macrophages have emerged as key regulators of cardiovascular disease, with their development and maturation tightly controlled by CSF1R (colony stimulating factor 1 receptor). Using multi-omics sequencing, we observed a marked expansion of Cx3cr1+ macrophages in doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy, yet their precise functional role in this pathological process has remained elusive. This study employed various genetically modified mouse models, including cell depletion models, lineage tracing models, and conditional gene knockout models targeting Cx3cr1+ macrophages, alongside transcriptomic sequencing, proteomic profiling, and multi-level in vivo and in vitro experiments to elucidate the role and mechanisms of Cx3cr1+ macrophages and their receptor CSF1R in doxorubicin-induced cardiac injury. We found that Cx3cr1+ macrophages are significantly enriched in hearts affected by doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy, and their depletion notably improves cardiac function. Further investigation revealed that in these macrophages, CSF1R competitively binds to the E3 ubiquitin ligase NEDD4, thereby inhibiting the ubiquitination and degradation of PARP1. This process promotes inflammasome activation and pyroptosis, driving massive IL1B secretion. IL1B directly suppresses cardiomyocyte mitophagy, disrupts energy metabolic homeostasis, and ultimately leads to cardiac dysfunction. Notably, the use of the CSF1R inhibitor PLX3397 or an IL1B-neutralizing antibody effectively halted these pathological processes and significantly improved cardiac function. In summary, this study unveils a novel mechanism through which Cx3cr1+ macrophages regulate cardiomyocyte function via the CSF1R-PARP1-IL1B-mitophagy signaling axis, providing a new theoretical foundation and intervention strategy for doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy targeted therapy.Abbreviations: BMDM: bone marrow-derived macrophages; CKMB: creatine kinase MB isoenzyme; CSF1R: colony stimulating factor 1 receptor; csf1r-cKO: csf1r conditional knockout; DIC: doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy; DOX: doxorubicin; HE: hematoxylin and eosin; HW:TL: heart weight:tibial length; LDH: lactate dehydrogenase; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtuble-associated protein 1 light chain 3; NPPA: natriuretic peptide type A; PI: propidium iodide; PYCARD/ASC: PYD and CARD domain containing; TNNT2/cTnT: troponin T2, cardiac; WGA: wheat germ agglutinin.
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a prevalent degenerative joint disease with limited diagnostic biomarkers. Triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (TREM2) is a key regulator of inflammation and bone metabolism, but its role in OA remains unclear.Plasma and synovial fluid samples were collected from patients with OA and patients with joint trauma serving as controls. Levels of TREM2 and IL-6 were measured using RT-qPCR and ELISA. Correlation analyses were conducted to assess relationships among TREM2, IL-6, and clinical parameters. The diagnostic value of TREM2 was evaluated via receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis. Additionally, the role and regulatory mechanism of TREM2 were investigated in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced chondrocytes.TREM2 levels were significantly elevated in both plasma and synovial fluid of patients with OA and showed positive correlations with IL-6, Kellgren-Lawrence score and body mass index (BMI). ROC analysis revealed AUCs of 0.880 for plasma TREM2 and 0.869 for synovial fluid TREM2, with superior performance compared to IL-6 in the same cohort. Multivariate logistic regression confirmed that TREM2 remained independently associated with OA after adjusting for confounders (OR = 28.29, P = 0.006). In vitro, LPS treatment upregulated TREM2 expression in chondrocytes, which was associated with changes in cell proliferation, apoptosis, inflammatory cytokine release and oxidative stress, with preliminary evidence suggesting involvement of the NLRP3-mediated pyroptosis-associated pathway.Elevated TREM2 in plasma and synovial fluid represents a promising exploratory biomarker for OA. In vitro findings suggest that TREM2 may modulate chondrocyte functions in association with NLRP3 inflammasome-associated molecular pathways.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to International League of Associations for Rheumatology (ILAR).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42488212 is a review article
Porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV) is one of the important pathogens influencing global swine industry. PRRSV infection promotes the secretion and production of soluble triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (sTREM2) in plasma. Whether sTREM2 regulated PRRSV replication remains unknown. In this study, we expressed and purified sTREM2 exogenously, and found that sTREM2 restrained PRRSV replication in vitro. In terms of mechanism, sTREM2 could interact with PRRSV envelope protein GP2a, wherein S112/S116/T120 amino acid sites in sTREM2 were essential for their binding. The interaction between sTREM2 and PRRSV GP2a interfered PRRSV binding stage, thus inhibiting PRRSV replication. In addition, sTREM2 promoted the activation of NF-ĸB signaling pathway and elevated the expression of proinflammatory cytokines and type I interferons, ultimately suppressing PRRSV replication. Our study demonstrated that sTREM2 possessed strong inhibitory effects against PRRSV and had the potential value for clinical application.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a multifactorial neurodegenerative disorder associated with amyloid aggregation, tau pathology, and neuroinflammation. In this study, an integrated computational workflow combining ADMET prediction, PASS-based activity screening, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations was employed to evaluate the interactions of oleuropein with five AD-related protein targets, including β-amyloid, tau, apolipoprotein E4 (ApoE4), triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (TREM2), and complement protein C1q. ADMET and PASS analyses predicted pharmacokinetic properties and potential biological activities associated with neurodegenerative disease-related pathways. Docking analysis predicted favorable binding affinities across the investigated targets, with the strongest predicted interaction observed for the C1q protein (-7.5 kcal/mol). Molecular dynamics (MD) trajectory analyses, including root-mean-square deviation (RMSD), root-mean-square fluctuation (RMSF), radius of gyration (Rg), dynamic cross-correlation matrix (DCCM), principal component analysis (PCA), and distance-based metrics, were used to evaluate the dynamic behavior of the protein-ligand complexes during the simulations. The computational analyses suggested relatively stable interactions for tau, C1q, and TREM2 complexes, whereas β-amyloid and ApoE4 exhibited comparatively higher conformational variability during portions of the simulations. These findings provide a preliminary computational assessment of oleuropein interactions with AD-related proteins and may support future experimental studies investigating its potential biological relevance in neurodegenerative disease models.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42411278
The p97 protein is a member of the AAA+ family of ATPases. This protein is encoded by the VCP gene. It is a mechanoenzyme that uses energy from ATP hydrolysis to promote protein unfolding and segregation actively. The unfolded products are subsequently presented to the 26S proteasome for degradation. p97 substrate recognition is mediated by adaptors, which interact with substrates directly or indirectly through ubiquitin modifications, resulting in substrate funnelling into the central pore of the p97 hexamer and unfolding. Here, we engineered synthetic adaptors to target specific substrates to p97, using the extraordinary intracellular binding capabilities of camelid nanobodies fused to the UBX domain of the p97 adaptor protein Fas-associated factor-1 (FAF1). In such a way, we created a p97-directed proteolysis-targeting chimera (PROTAC), representing a novel and unique E3 ubiquitin ligase-independent strategy to promote specific proteolysis. All functional assays were performed in human cell lines to evaluate the system's efficacy and specificity in a physiologically relevant context.© 2025, Salinas-Rebolledo et al.
Primordial germ cell (PGC) formation and specification is a fundamental conserved process as PGCs are the progenitors of germline stem cells (GSCs). In Drosophila melanogaster, maternally deposited Oskar (Osk) and centrosome dynamics are two independent determinants of PGC fate. Caspar, Drosophila homolog of Fas-associated factor 1 (FAF1), promotes PGC formation/specification and maintains the PGC count by modulating both the Osk levels and centrosome function. Consistently, casplof PGCs display reduction and inefficient release/transmission of germ plasm. Defective centrosome migration and behavior are evident even prior to PGC formation engineered by Osk and its targets. Taken together with the inability of Osk to regulate nuclear and centrosome migration, our data demonstrate that Casp encodes a novel bi-modal regulator of PGC fate as it controls Osk levels likely by downregulating translational repressor, Smaug (Smg) and also influences nuclear/centrosome migration during early mitotic nuclear division cycles (NCs 6-9), which are Osk-independent. We discuss dual functionality of Casp vis-à-vis germline/soma segregation as it helps acquire both the PGCs and the surrounding soma their individual identities.© 2025. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Ubiquitin-proteasomal degradation of K+/Cl- cotransporter 2 (KCC2) in the ventral posteromedial nucleus (VPM) has been demonstrated to serve as a common mechanism by which the brain emerges from anesthesia and regains consciousness. Ubiquitin-proteasomal degradation of KCC2 during anesthesia is driven by E3 ligase Fbxl4. However, the mechanism by which ubiquitinated KCC2 is targeted to the proteasome has not been elucidated. We report in cultured neuro-2a cells that the valosin-containing protein (VCP) transported ubiquitinated KCC2 to the proteasome and in mice in vivo experiments that inhibition of VCP restored KCC2 expression in the VPM and enhanced the effects of anesthesia. In cultured neuro-2a cells, propofol-induced degradation of KCC2 was inhibited by VCP inhibitor DBeQ and VCP knockout plasmid sgRNA(VCP). Propofol-induced enhanced interaction between VCP and KCC2 was inhibited by knockout of Fbxl4 or Fas-associated factor 1 (FAF1). In in vivo studies, pharmacological or genetic inhibition of VCP in the VPM significantly prevented KCC2 degradation and enhanced propofol anesthesia; these effects were abrogated by a KCC2 antagonist VU0463271. These results demonstrate that the VCP controls ubiquitin-proteasomal degradation of KCC2 dependent on FAF1 recruitment and serves as a mechanism for the ubiquitin-proteasomal degradation of KCC2, which is responsible for the subsequent emergence from anesthesia.
Proper formation and specification of Primordial Germ Cells (PGCs) is of special significance as they gradually transform into Germline Stem Cells (GSCs) that are ultimately responsible for generating the gametes. Intriguingly, not only the PGCs constitute the only immortal cell type but several specific determinants also underlying PGC specification such as Vasa, Nanos and Germ-cell-less are conserved through evolution. In Drosophila melanogaster, PGC formation and specification depends on two independent factors, the maternally deposited specialized cytoplasm (or germ plasm) enriched in germline determinants, and the mechanisms that execute the even partitioning of these determinants between the daughter cells. Prior work has shown that Oskar protein is necessary and sufficient to assemble the functional germ plasm, whereas centrosomes associated with the nuclei that invade the germ plasm are responsible for its equitable distribution. Our recent data suggests that Caspar, the Drosophila orthologue of human Fas-associated factor-1 (FAF1) is a novel regulator that modulates both mechanisms that underlie the determination of PGC fate. Consistently, early blastoderm embryos derived from females compromised for caspar display reduced levels of Oskar and defective centrosomes.
Repurposing of pleiotropic factors during execution of diverse cellular processes has emerged as a regulatory paradigm. Embryonic development in metazoans is controlled by maternal factors deposited in the egg during oogenesis. Here, we explore maternal role(s) of Caspar (Casp), the Drosophila orthologue of human Fas-associated factor-1 (FAF1) originally implicated in host-defense as a negative regulator of NF-κB signaling. Maternal loss of either Casp or it's protein partner, transitional endoplasmic reticulum 94 (TER94) leads to partial embryonic lethality correlated with aberrant centrosome behavior, cytoskeletal abnormalities, and defective gastrulation. Although ubiquitously distributed, both proteins are enriched in the primordial germ cells (PGCs), and in keeping with the centrosome problems, mutant embryos display a significant reduction in the PGC count. Moreover, the total number of pole buds is directly proportional to the level of Casp. Consistently, it's 'loss' and 'gain' results in respective reduction and increase in the Oskar protein levels, the master determinant of PGC fate. To elucidate this regulatory loop, we analyzed several known components of mid-blastula transition and identify the translational repressor Smaug, a zygotic regulator of germ cell specification, as a potential critical target. We present a detailed structure-function analysis of Casp aimed at understanding its novel involvement during PGC development.© 2024, Das, Hegde et al.
The cell cycle is driven by cyclin-dependent kinases (Cdks). The decision whether the cell cycle proceeds is made during G1 phase, when Cdk4/6 functions. Cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 2 (Cdkn2) is a specific inhibitor of Cdk4/6, and their interaction depends on D84 in Cdkn2 and R24/31 in Cdk4/6. This knowledge is based mainly on studies in mammalian cells. Here, we comprehensively analyzed Cdk4/6 and Cdkn2 in invertebrates and found that Cdk4/6 was present in most of the investigated phyla, but the distribution of Cdkn2 was rather uneven among and within the phyla. The positive charge of R24/R31 in Cdk4/6 was conserved in all analyzed species in phyla with Cdkn2. The presence of Cdkn2 and the conservation of the positive charge were statistically correlated. We also found that Cdkn2 has been tightly linked to Fas associated factor 1 (Faf1) during evolution. We discuss potential interactions between Cdkn2 and Cdk4/6 in evolution and the possible cause of the strong conservation of the microsynteny.© 2024 The Author(s). Genes to Cells published by Molecular Biology Society of Japan and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
FAF1 (FAS-associated factor 1) is involved in the activation of Fas cell surface death receptors and plays a role in apoptosis and necrosis. In patients with Parkinson's disease, FAF1 is overexpressed in dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra. KM-819, an FAF1 inhibitor, has shown potential for preventing dopaminergic neuronal cell death, promoting the degradation of α-synuclein and preventing its accumulation. This study aimed to develop and validate a quantitative analytical method for determining KM-819 levels in rat plasma using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. This method was then applied to pharmacokinetic (PK) studies in rats. The metabolic stability of KM-819 was assessed in rat, dog, and human hepatocytes. In vitro metabolite identification and metabolic pathways were investigated in rat, dog, and human hepatocytes. The structural analog of KM-819, namely N-[1-(4-bromobenzyl)-3,5-dimethyl-1H-pyrazol-4-yl]-2-(phenylsulfanyl) acetamide, served as the internal standard (IS). Proteins were precipitated from plasma samples using acetonitrile. Analysis was carried out using a reverse-phase C18 column with a mobile phase consisting of 0.1% formic acid in distilled water and 0.1% formic acid in acetonitrile. The analytical method developed for KM-819 exhibited linearity within the concentration range of 0.002-10 μg/mL in rat plasma. The precision and accuracy of the intra- and inter-day measurements were <15% for the lower limit of quantification (LLOQ) and all quality control samples. KM-819 demonstrated stability under various sample storage conditions (6 h at room temperature (25 °C), four weeks at -20 °C, three freeze-thaw cycles, and pretreated samples in the autosampler). The matrix effect and dilution integrity met the criteria set by the Food and Drug Administration and the European Medicines Agency. This sensitive, rapid, and reliable analytical method was successfully applied in pharmacokinetic studies in rats. Pharmacokinetic analysis revealed the dose-independent kinetics of KM-819 at 0.5-5 mg/kg, with a moderate oral bioavailability of ~20% in rats. The metabolic stability of KM-819 was also found to be moderate in rat, dog, and human hepatocytes. Metabolite identification in rat, dog, and human hepatocytes resulted in the discovery of six, six, and eight metabolites, respectively. Glucuronidation and mono-oxidation have been proposed as the major metabolic pathways. Overall, these findings contribute to a better understanding of the pharmacokinetic characteristics of KM-819, thereby aiding future clinical studies.
Skipped: PubMed ID 38365777 is a review article
Fas-associated factor 1 (FAF1) is a multidomain protein that interacts with diverse partners to affect numerous cellular processes. Previously, we discovered two Small Ubiquitin-like Modifier (SUMO)-interacting motifs (SIMs) within FAF1 that are crucial for transcriptional modulation of mineralocorticoid receptor. Recently, we identified Sin3A-associated protein 130 (SAP130), a putative sumoylated protein, as a candidate FAF1 interaction partner by yeast two-hybrid screening. However, it remained unclear whether SAP130 sumoylation might occur and functionally interact with FAF1.In this study, we first show that SAP130 can be modified by SUMO1 at Lys residues 794, 878 and 932 both in vitro and in vivo. Mutation of these three SUMO-accepting Lys residues to Ala had no impact on SAP130 association with Sin3A or its nuclear localization, but the mutations abrogated the association of SAP130 with the FAF1. The mutations also potentiated SAP130 trans-repression activity and attenuated SAP130-mediated promotion of cell growth. Additionally, SUMO1-modified SAP130 was less stable than unmodified SAP130. Transient transfection experiments further revealed that FAF1 mitigated the trans-repression and cell proliferation-promoting functions of SAP130, and promoted SAP130 degradation by enhancing its polyubiquitination in a sumoylation-dependent manner.Together, these results demonstrate that sumoylation of SAP130 regulates its biological functions and that FAF1 plays a crucial role in controlling the SUMO-dependent regulation of transcriptional activity and protein stability of SAP130.© 2023. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 41659085 is a review article
Pyroptosis is linked to the development of acute lung injury (ALI), and circular RNAs (circRNAs) play a role in ALI-related inflammation. However, the mechanisms by which circRNAs contribute to macrophage pyroptosis in ALI remain unclear. This study constructed an in vitro ALI model by inducing THP-1 cells with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) and lipopolysaccharide (LPS). The expression and potential mechanism of circ-CARD8 in macrophage pyroptosis were then investigated. The interaction between circ-CARD8, hsa-miR-580-3p, and caspase recruitment domain family member 8 (CARD8) was confirmed through luciferase reporter assays and RNA-binding protein immunoprecipitation. Our data showed that circ-CARD8 was expressed at low levels. Meanwhile, the pyroptotic proteins caspase-1 and GSDMD, along with the secretion of chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 18 and interleukin 1 beta, were upregulated in the ALI cell model. Overexpression of circ-CARD8 reversed macrophage pyroptosis, whereas inhibition of circ-CARD8 promoted it. Furthermore, the expression of miR-580-3p, a downstream microRNA that binds to circ-CARD8, was reduced upon circ-CARD8 overexpression and increased following its inhibition. Additionally, overexpression of miR-580-3p suppressed the expression of CARD8, a downstream target of miR-580-3p, thereby promoting macrophage pyroptosis. The inhibition of miR-580-3p reversed the effect of circ-CARD8 silencing on macrophage pyroptosis and CARD8 expression. Therefore, our study confirms that the low expression of circ-CARD8 reduces the sponge adsorption of miR-580-3p, increasing its expression, which in turn targets and inhibits CARD8, ultimately promoting macrophage pyroptosis induced by LPS in THP-1 cells.Copyright: © 2024 Chen et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 37712526 is a review article
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a genetically predisposed, systemic, chronic, inflammatory disease. Immune system dysregulation and inherited susceptibility polymorphisms suggest that this type of variation is functional and may help predict disease susceptibility and develop new therapeutic strategies. Anti-TNF-alpha (TNF-α) drugs are highly effective RA treatments, but not all patients respond the same way. It's important to figure out whether RA risk alleles can identify and predict anti-TNF-α-responsiveness in RA patients.Examine the function of the NLR family pyrin domain containing 3 (NLRP3) and caspase recruitment domain family member 8 (CARD8) genes polymorphisms and their morbid genotypes and alleles in RA patients and apparently healthy controls. In addition, their role in disease susceptibility, severity, and response to anti-TNF-α therapy. Also, examine how single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) affect serum levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines like TNF-α and interleukin (IL)-1β.100 RA patients (88 females, 12 males) and 100 apparently healthy people (86 females, 14 males) were examined. To measure serum TNF-α and IL-1β, Elabscience sandwich ELISA kits were used. Iraq Biotech, Turkey DNA extraction kit was used to extract genomic DNA from whole blood. CARD8 (rs2043211) and NLRP3 (rs4612666) were genotyped using Agilent, AriaMx, USA, through Tri-Plex SYBR Green-based real-time PCR allelic discrimination assays. Geneious software, version 2019.2.2, used to design primers from published sequences (GenBank accession no. GCA 009914755.1). Primer specificity was determined by NCBI's BLAST.Study found that there is association between cytokines serum level and 28-joints disease activity score (DAS-28). The level of TNF-α increases with the higher DAS-28 (r2 = 0.45, P < 0.0001). Also, IL- 1β level increases with higher DAS-28 (r2 = 0.51, P < 0.0001). There were no statistically significant variations between patients with RA and the control group in the distribution of CARD8 SNP rs2043211 and NLRP3 SNP rs4612666 genotypes (P = 0.17 and 0.08 respectively) as well their alleles (P = 0.059 and 0.879 respectively). CARD8 (rs2043211) TT genotype was more frequent in patients with higher DAS-28 (P < 0.0001) and higher TNF-α and IL-1β serum levels (P < 0.0001 for both). Also, NLRP3 (rs4612666) TT genotype was more frequent in patients with higher DAS-28 (P < 0.0001) and higher TNF-α and IL- 1β serum levels (P < 0.0001 for both). Interestingly, this study revealed that CARD8 (rs2043211) and NLRP3 (rs4612666) variant genotypes are associated with lower response to anti-TNF-α drugs.Serum TNF-α and IL-1β correlate with DAS-28 and disease activity. Non-responders have elevated TNF-α and IL-1β. CARD8 rs2043211 and NLRP3 rs4612666 variant polymorphisms are associated with high serum TNF-α and IL-1β, active disease course, poor disease outcomes, and low response to anti-TNF-α therapy.© 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Although current antiretroviral therapy can control HIV-1 replication and prevent disease progression, it is not curative. Identifying mechanisms that can lead to eradication of persistent viral reservoirs in people living with HIV-1 (PLWH) remains an outstanding challenge to achieving cure. Utilizing a phenotypic screen, we identified a novel chemical class capable of killing HIV-1 infected peripheral blood mononuclear cells. Tool compounds ICeD-1 and ICeD-2 ("inducer of cell death-1 and 2"), optimized for potency and selectivity from screening hits, were used to deconvolute the mechanism of action using a combination of chemoproteomic, biochemical, pharmacological, and genetic approaches. We determined that these compounds function by modulating dipeptidyl peptidase 9 (DPP9) and activating the caspase recruitment domain family member 8 (CARD8) inflammasome. Efficacy of ICeD-1 and ICeD-2 was dependent on HIV-1 protease activity and synergistic with efavirenz, which promotes premature activation of HIV-1 protease at high concentrations in infected cells. This in vitro synergy lowers the efficacious cell kill concentration of efavirenz to a clinically relevant dose at concentrations of ICeD-1 or ICeD-2 that do not result in complete DPP9 inhibition. These results suggest engagement of the pyroptotic pathway as a potential approach to eliminate HIV-1 infected cells.
We compared the incidence of polymorphisms activating the NLRP3 inflammasome between controls and patients with cholesteatoma and its potential association with bone erosion in patients with cholesteatoma.This is a case-control study assessing the mutation rates in genes of interest in patients with and without cholesteatoma. A total of 133 saliva samples from control (n = 65) and cholesteatoma (n = 68) patients were collected for DNA extraction. Caspase recruitment domain family member 8 (CARD8) (AA: homozygous wild type, AT: heterozygous, TT: homozygous mutant polymorphism) and NLRP3 (CC: homozygous wild type, CA: heterozygous, AA: homozygous mutant) polymorphisms were analyzed with TaqMan single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) quantitative polymerase chain reaction (ThermoFisher Scientific, Waltham, MA). Mutation status was correlated with a novel bone erosion scoring model developed as a part of this study. Summary statistics, including frequencies (%) and median (Q1, Q3) were used to describe the sample.The presence of CARD8 and NLRP3 homozygous wild-type polymorphisms were generally similar for the control and cholesteatoma patient groups. CARD8 homozygous TT polymorphisms were an exception, occurring more frequently in patients who developed a cholesteatoma compared to the control group (29% vs. 10%, P = .009). Those patients with CARD8 homozygous TT polymorphism had higher median scores of bone erosion as compared to subjects with nonhomozygous mutant genotypes (median [interquartile range]: 4.0 [3.0, 5.5] vs. 2.5 [1.0, 3.5], P = .0142).Cholesteatoma patients have a significant, twofold higher incidence of CARD8 homozygous TT polymorphism. Furthermore, cholesteatoma patients with this homozygous polymorphism had greater bone erosion rates than controls. These findings suggest that genetic mutations may increase host susceptibility to cholesteatomas. Specifically, the CARD8 TT polymorphism may influence the severity of cholesteatoma-induced bone erosion.3B.© 2020 The American Laryngological, Rhinological and Otological Society, Inc.
Myocardial ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury remains a major clinical challenge characterized by cardiomyocyte loss and adverse remodeling after reperfusion. Ubiquitin-Specific Peptidase 20 (USP20), a deubiquitinase involved in cellular stress responses, has not been fully characterized in the ischemic heart. This study aimed to investigate the function and mechanism of cardiomyocyte-derived USP20 in myocardial I/R injury.Myocardial I/R models and hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R)-treated cardiomyocytes were used to evaluate USP20 expression and function. Single-cell transcriptomic analysis, cardiomyocyte-specific USP20 knockout, and USP20 overexpression models were applied. Co-immunoprecipitation, LC-MS/MS, ubiquitination assays, site-directed mutagenesis, and rescue experiments were performed to define the underlying mechanism.USP20 expression was markedly decreased in I/R-injured mouse hearts and H/R-treated cardiomyocytes, and USP20 was predominantly localized in cardiomyocytes. Cardiomyocyte-specific USP20 deletion aggravated myocardial injury, adverse cardiac remodeling, and cardiac dysfunction after I/R, whereas USP20 overexpression conferred significant cardioprotection. Mechanistically, USP20 directly interacted with glucose-regulated protein 78 (GRP78) and removed K63-linked polyubiquitin chains from GRP78 at K602 through its C154 active site. This deubiquitination activated GRP78, promoted adaptive endoplasmic reticulum stress responses, and reduced myocardial injury.These findings identify a previously unrecognized USP20-GRP78 regulatory axis that regulates endoplasmic reticulum stress responses and limits myocardial damage during I/R. USP20 may represent a potential therapeutic target for myocardial I/R injury.© The author(s).
To investigate the role of the deubiquitinating enzyme USP20 in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) and determine how it regulates autophagy and ferroptosis during tumor progression.Integrative analyses of single-cell transcriptomic data and LASSO regression identified USP20 as a candidate oncogenic regulator in LUAD. Gain- and loss-of-function approaches were used to examine its role in autophagy and ferroptosis. Protein interactions and ubiquitination regulation were analyzed by co-immunoprecipitation, cycloheximide chase, and ubiquitination assays. Functional assays and xenograft models were performed to evaluate the biological and therapeutic significance of USP20 inhibition.USP20 was markedly upregulated in LUAD and negatively associated with autophagy and ferroptosis signatures. USP20 depletion suppressed tumor cell proliferation and migration, enhanced autophagic flux, and increased ferroptosis sensitivity, whereas USP20 overexpression produced the opposite effects. Mechanistically, USP20 interacted with SQSTM1/p62 and removed its K48-linked ubiquitin chains, thereby stabilizing p62 and blocking autophagic flux. Stabilized p62 further maintained the SQSTM1-NCOA4 complex, limiting ferritinophagy and consequently suppressing ferroptosis. Pharmacological inhibition of USP20 restored ferroptosis signaling and significantly suppressed LUAD progression in vitro and in vivo.These findings identify the USP20-SQSTM1-autophagy axis as a key mechanism mediating ferroptosis resistance in LUAD and underscore USP20 as a promising therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
The severe cardiotoxicity of doxorubicin (Dox) significantly restricts its clinical application. Deubiquitinating enzymes (DUBs) have emerged as a research hotspot in cardiac pathophysiology due to their precise regulation of protein function, localization, and degradation. However, the specific role of ubiquitin-specific peptidase 20 (USP20) in doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy (DIC) remains poorly understood. In this study, we employed single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) to delineate the cell-type-specific expression pattern of USP20 in the heart and combined it with LC-MS/MS-coupled co-immunoprecipitation (co-IP) to identify its direct, endogenous substrate proteins in cardiomyocytes. Employing cardiomyocyte-specific Usp20-knockout (Usp20-CKO) mice, we demonstrated that USP20 deficiency profoundly exacerbates DIC by driving ferroptotic cell death. Mechanistically, the ubiquitin-specific protease domain of USP20 directly interacted with human antigen R (HuR). USP20 deubiquitinated HuR at lysine 154 by specifically cleaving K48-linked polyubiquitin chains, thereby preventing its proteasomal degradation and maintaining protein stability. Subsequently, the stabilized HuR bound to GPX4 mRNA, suppressing its degradation to mitigate ferroptosis and alleviate DIC. Furthermore, AAV9-mediated targeted overexpression of USP20 in cardiomyocytes significantly attenuated DIC severity. Crucially, this cardioprotective effect was completely abolished in cardiomyocyte-specific HuR-knockout (HuR-CKO) mice, establishing HuR as an indispensable downstream effector of USP20 in DIC. In summary, our findings demonstrate that USP20 inhibits ferroptosis and mitigates DIC by stabilizing HuR through targeted deubiquitination.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) including sunitinib and sorafenib remain first-line therapies for advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC) and lung cancer (LC), but their efficacy is limited by acquired resistance. By characterizing metabolic adaptations in TKI-resistant tumors, we identify ubiquitin-specific peptidase 20 (USP20) as a critical resistance driver that enables cancer cells to evade ferroptosis. We demonstrate TKI-resistant cells upregulate USP20, which binds and deubiquitinates the ferroptosis suppressor GPX4, preventing its proteasomal degradation. Clinically, USP20 and GPX4 are co-overexpressed in RCC and LC patients, correlating with poor prognosis. Mechanistically, USP20 removes K48-linked polyubiquitination on GPX4, sustaining cellular antioxidant capacity. Genetic USP20 ablation sensitizes resistant tumors to TKI-induced ferroptosis. Pharmacological inhibition of USP20 was found to resensitize TKI-resistant tumors to sorafenib, resulting in marked suppression of tumor growth in vivo. Our work uncovers the USP20-GPX4 axis as a druggable linchpin of TKI resistance, revealing ferroptosis evasion as a metabolic vulnerability and proposing a new therapeutic paradigm for overcoming TKI tolerance in RCC and LC.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Cancer cells undergo metabolic reprogramming to meet the demands of rapid proliferation, survival and chemotherapy resistance. Targeting cancer-specific metabolic vulnerabilities offers a compelling strategy for therapeutic intervention. Owing to the Warburg effect and the unique tumor microenvironment, pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) cells exhibit a high demand for glucose to sustain their energy metabolism. Here, we identify a novel regulatory mechanism controlling the cell surface abundance of glucose transporter 1 (GLUT1), mediated by RAB8A-dependent vesicular trafficking. RAB8A, a member of the RAS oncogene family, enhances GLUT1 membrane localization and thereby increases glucose uptake in PDAC cells. Mechanistically, we demonstrate that ubiquitin-specific peptidase 20 (USP20) negatively regulates RAB8A activation by selectively removing K48-linked polyubiquitin chains from its inactive form. Functional assays in vitro and in vivo validate the tumor-suppressive role of the USP20-RAB8A signaling axis. Furthermore, using primary PDAC cells derived from KPC (KrasG12D/+; Trp53 R172Hflox/flox; Pdx1-Cre) mice, we show that dual knockdown of Rab8a and Glut1 markedly attenuates tumor-promoting effects driven by oncogenic Kras and Trp53 loss. Collectively, our findings reveal that the USP20-RAB8A-GLUT1 axis regulates glucose uptake and metabolic reprogramming in PDAC, thereby inhibiting tumor growth and metastasis. Targeting this signaling axis provides a novel insight into metabolic therapy for pancreatic cancer.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Although extensive clinical and basic research has been conducted on diabetic cardiomyopathy (DbCM), the therapeutic efficacy for this condition remains significantly limited. Ubiquitin-specific peptidase 20 (USP20), a deubiquitinating enzyme, plays an essential role in regulating protein ubiquitination and modulating various cellular processes. In this study, we aimed to investigate the effect of USP20 on the pathogenesis of DbCM, which may provide a novel therapeutic target for its treatment. The cardiomyocyte-specific USP20 conditional knockout (USP20CKO) mice were employed in this study. The type 2 diabetes mouse model was established using db/db leptin receptor-deficient mice and high-fat diet/streptozotocin-induced mice. USP20 expression was downregulated in the myocardium of diabetic mice. Cardiomyocyte-specific USP20 deficiency aggravated cardiac remodeling and myocardial dysfunction in diabetic mice. LC-MS/MS analysis, along with Co-IP results, demonstrated the interaction between stimulator of interferon genes (STING) and USP20. In mechanism, USP20 directly binds to STING and promotes its degradation through the autophagy pathway by deubiquitinating p62 via its active site C154, thereby alleviating the myocardial inflammation and improving ventricular remodeling and heart failure induced by diabetes.© 2026 The Author(s). The FASEB Journal published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Although extensive research on septic cardiomyopathy has been conducted, effective therapies are still limited. Ubiquitin-specific peptidase 20 (USP20), a deubiquitinating enzyme, is critical in regulating protein ubiquitination and various cellular processes. whether USP20 is involved in the pathogenesis of septic cardiomyopathy remains unclear. This study investigated the impact of USP20 on septic cardiomyopathy.The cardiomyocyte-specific USP20 knockout mice (USP20CKO) and NLRP3 knockout mice (NLRP3-/-) were used in the present study. A sepsis mouse model was established using lipopolysaccharide (LPS) administration and the cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) procedure. Recombinant adeno-associated virus serotype 9 (AAV9) was used to achieve overexpression of USP20. Myocardial function, histopathological changes, and pyroptosis levels in heart tissues were evaluated. Liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analysis and co-immunoprecipitation (co-IP) were performed to identify the molecular mechanism of USP20 in septic cardiomyopathy.Our results showed that USP20 was downregulated in the myocardium of septic mice. Cardiomyocyte-specific USP20 deficiency worsened myocardial injury and cardiac dysfunction induced by LPS and CLP. LC-MS/MS analysis and co-IP revealed NLRP3 as a substrate protein of USP20. Mechanistically, USP20 removed K63-linked ubiquitin from K243 via its active site C154, inhibiting NLRP3's interaction with ASC and suppressing its activation and subsequent pyroptosis. Moreover, overexpressing USP20 in cardiomyocytes reduced LPS-induced myocardial injury. Additionally, the protective effect of USP20 against LPS-induced damage was nullified in the absence of NLRP3 in mice.These findings suggest that cardiomyocyte-derived USP20 is crucial in septic cardiomyopathy progression and may serve as a novel therapeutic target for managing septic cardiomyopathy.Cardiomyocyte-derived USP20 is crucial in septic cardiomyopathy progression. NLRP3 is identified as a substrate protein of USP20. USP20 deubiquitinates NLRP3 by removing K63-linked ubiquitin at K243 residue via its active site C154, disrupting the interaction between NLRP3 and ASC, suppressing NLRP3 activation and subsequent pyroptosis. USP20 may serve as a novel therapeutic target for managing septic cardiomyopathy.© 2025 The Author(s). Clinical and Translational Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Shanghai Institute of Clinical Bioinformatics.
Ubiquitin-specific peptidase 20 (USP20) acts as oncogene or tumor suppressor gene in different types of cancer. But there are only a few reports about the effect of USP20 on colorectal cancer (CRC). This study aims to further explore the novel molecular mechanisms of USP20 in intraperitoneal metastasis of CRC.First, bioinformatics analyses were performed to discover the association between USP20 expression and the clinical characteristics of CRC. Subsequently, the mouse model was constructed using a USP20 knockout (USP20-KO) colon cell line to validate the effects of USP20 on intraperitoneal metastasis and immune cell infiltration. And then metabolomics study was performed on the USP20-KO cells to find the novel mechanisms of USP20. Finally, the relationship of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and USP20 was identified by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and Western blotting experiments.Bioinformatics analyses showed that the USP20 expression was significantly upregulated in CRC and affected immune cell infiltration. The animal model study revealed that the intraperitoneal metastasis of tumor cell was inhibited by knocking out USP20, and the expression of USP20 could affect the proportions of CD8+ T cells and myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) in tumor tissue and ascites. Metabolomics study found that PGE2 should be the key metabolite regulated by USP20 for affecting immune cell infiltration. Finally, it was validated that the expressions of 15-hydroxyprostaglandin dehydrogenase (15-PGDH) and microsomal prostaglandin E synthase-1 (mPGES-1) were regulated by the USP20 related ubiquitin-proteasome pathway.The USP20 expression is significantly upregulated in CRC, and can promote tumor metastasis by affecting immune cell infiltration. As an important tumor metabolite which can influence immune cell infiltration, PGE2 is regulated by USP20 through the protein degradation of mPGES-1 and 15-PGDH mediated by proteasome.Copyright © 2025 AME Publishing Company. All rights reserved.
Nuclear factor-κB (NFκB) mediates inflammation-driven angiogenesis, which promotes growth of atherosclerotic plaques and tumors. The deubiquitinase ubiquitin-specific peptidase 20 (USP20) suppresses NFκB activation in vascular smooth muscle cells (SMCs) and attenuates atherosclerosis, but the role of USP20 in endothelial cells (ECs) was undefined. We tested whether USP20 activity diminishes NFκB signaling in ECs and thereby diminishes angiogenesis. Cytokine-induced NFκB activity was elevated in primary ECs isolated from Usp20 -/- mice as compared with ECs from wild-type (WT) mice. Similarly, cytokine-induced NFκB activity was elevated in mouse coronary endothelial cells (MCECs) expressing catalytically inactive USP20 (USP20-DN) or phospho-mimetic USP20(S334D). In contrast, cytokine stimulation of MCECs expressing WT USP20 (USP20-WT) or phospho-resistant USP20(S334A) produced blunted NFκB activity. Assessed by scratch-wound healing and spheroid assays, migration and angiogenesis of MCECs, respectively, were (a) increased by USP20-DN or USP20(S334D), and (b) decreased by USP20-WT or USP20(S334A). Angiogenesis assessed by the aortic ring assay was significantly increased in Usp20 -/- mice and was suppressed by TPCA-1, an inhibitor of NFκB signaling. Angiogenesis was augmented in USP20(S334D) mouse aortic rings but reduced in USP20(S334A) mice. By screening known angiogenesis factors, we identified matrix metalloproteinase 3 (MMP3), a transcriptional target of NFκB, as a gene that is also regulated by USP20 expression and Ser334 phosphorylation. Inhibiting MMP3 reduced angiogenic sprouting in the Usp20 -/- mouse aortic rings. We conclude that USP20 expression inversely correlates with the extent of angiogenesis, and that inhibiting USP20 Ser334 phosphorylation could be a useful strategy to constrain inflammation-driven angiogenesis under pathological circumstances, like cancer and atherosclerosis.
Ischemic stroke (IS) is a disease that causes necrosis of brain tissues by inadequate blood supply to the brain. Umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells (UCMSCs)-derived exosomes (UCMSCs-Exo) have been reported to alleviate IS, and slit guidance ligand 2 (SLIT2) could promote neurological repair after IS. The aim of this research was to explore the potential mechanism of UCMSCs-derived exosomal SLIT2 on IS progression.The middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) rat and oxygen glucose deprivation/reperfusion (OGD/R)-induced cellular models were established, and then treated with UCMSCs-Exo. Cell viability and apoptosis were explored by cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) assay and flow cytometry, respectively. The expressions of ubiquitin specific peptidase 20 (USP20) and related apoptotic proteins were determined using Western blot. Immunofluorescence and immunohistochemistry were performed to evaluate the effect of SLIT2 on β-catenin nuclear translocation. The association between transcription factor 4 (TCF4) and USP20 promoter was investigated by chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and dual-luciferase reporter assys.In the OGD/R-induced cell model, UCMSCs-derived exosomal SLIT2 increased cell viability, decreased apoptosis and promoted β-catenin nuclear translocation. Besides, β-catenin agonist (SKL2001) facilitated USP20 transcription by promoting TCF4 binding to USP20 promoter. Finally, TCF4 upregulated USP20 and inhibited OGD/R-induced cell damage. In the MCAO rat model, UCMSCs-derived exosomal SLIT2 mitigated IS by promoting β-catenin nuclear translocation, which activated the TCF4/USP20 pathway to inhibit apoptosis.UCMSCs-derived exosomal SLIT2 activated TCF4 by promoting β-catenin nuclear translocation, which transcriptionally upregulated USP20 expression, thereby attenuating OGD/R-induced neuroncell damage and ultimately leading to inhibition of IS progression.
Pathological cardiac remodeling after myocardial infarction (MI) is a leading cause of heart failure and sudden death. The detailed mechanisms underlying the transition to heart failure after MI are not fully understood. Disruptions in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-mitochondria connectivity, along with mitochondrial dysfunction, are substantial contributors to this remodeling process. In this study, we aimed to explore the impact of mitochondrial tumor suppressor 1A (Mtus1A) on cardiac remodeling subsequent to MI and elucidate its regulatory role in ER-mitochondria interactions.Single-nucleus RNA sequencing analysis was performed to delineate the expression patterns of mitochondrial tumor suppressor 1 (Mtus1) in human cardiomyocytes under ischemic stress. MI models were induced in mice by left coronary artery ligation and replicated in vitro using primary neonatal rat ventricular myocytes exposed to oxygen glucose deprivation. Cardiac-specific deletion of Mtus1 was achieved by crossing floxed Mtus1 mice with the Myh6-MerCreMer mice. The impact of Mtus1A, a mitochondrial isoform of Mtus1, on cardiac function and the molecular mechanisms were investigated in both in vivo and in vitro settings. Mitochondria-associated ER membranes (MAMs) coupling levels were evaluated by transmission electron microscopy and live-cell imaging. Protein interactions involving Mtus1A were explored through immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry, coimmunoprecipitation, and proximity ligation assay. The roles of Mtus1A and Fbxo7 (F-box protein 7) were validated in a murine MI model using adeno-associated virus serotype 9 (AAV9).Bioinformatics analysis revealed a significant downregulation of Mtus1 expression in human cardiomyocytes under ischemic conditions, indicating its potential role in stress response. The predominant isoform in murine cardiomyocytes, Mtus1A, showed reduced expression in the left ventricle of mice after MI, which is consistent with the decreased levels of its orthologs in heart tissues from patients with MI. Cardiac-specific Mtus1-knockout mice exhibited worsened cardiac dysfunction after MI. Further studies demonstrated that Mtus1A partially localizes to MAMs, where it modulates MAMs coupling and preserves mitochondrial function. Mechanistically, Mtus1A functions as a scaffold protein that maintains the formation of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor 1 (IP3R1)-glucose-regulated protein 75 (Grp75)-voltage-dependent anion channel 1 (VDAC1) complex through its amino acid sequence 189-219. In addition, Mtus1A protein is stabilized by K6-linked ubiquitination through the E3 ubiquitin ligase Fbxo7. Mtus1A overexpression in mice mitigated MI-induced cardiac dysfunction and remodeling by maintaining MAMs integrity.Our study demonstrates that Mtus1A is crucial for modulating MI-induced cardiac remodeling by preserving ER-mitochondria communication and ameliorating mitochondrial function in cardiomyocytes. Mtus1A may serve as a potential therapeutic target for treating heart failure after MI.
Skipped: PubMed ID 36634094 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 36261086 is a review article
Mutations in the F-box protein 7 (FBXO7) gene is one of the genetic causes of early-onset Parkinson's disease, which usually presents as autosomal recessive early-onset parkinsonian-pyramidal syndrome (PPS). Herein, we report a Chinese PPS family with a novel FBXO7 homozygous mutation.Clinical data of the proband and his affected sister manifesting as early-onset parkinsonism combined with pyramidal signs were collected. DNAs of the two affected siblings, an unaffected sibling and their unaffected mother were isolated. Whole-exome sequencing (WES) was performed for the proband. After bioinformatic analysis, targeted variants were validated by Sanger sequencing in the family members available for DNAs.The proband began to walk unsteadily at 30-year-old and developed mild parkinsonism and stiffness in both lower extremities 4 years later. His older sister also manifested as early-onset parkinsonism with stiffness in both lower limbs and postural instability. Both the proband and his older sister carried a novel homozygous FBXO7 mutation in exon 7 (c.1034G > C, p. R345P). The homozygous mutation co-segregated with disease in this pedigree. The mutation located at a highly conserved amino acid residue in the F-box domain, which was predicted to be damaging in silico.Our study expands the mutational spectrum of autosomal recessive early-onset Parkinson's disease (PARK15) caused by FBXO7 mutations.Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Acute lung injury (ALI) is a significant post-operative complication of liver transplant (LT), with mounting evidence suggesting a role for the gut-lung axis. However, the mechanistic link between gut microbiota dysbiosis and ALI pathogenesis in LT recipients remains poorly understood. This hybrid translational investigation integrates transcriptomic profiling (bulk and single-cell RNA-seq), immune infiltration analysis, fecal microbiota composition (16S rRNA), and predictive functional profiling in ALI vs. non-ALI (NALI) LT patients. Machine learning algorithms (LASSO, SVM-RFE, Random Forest) were used to identify key gene biomarkers. Microbiota-host gene correlations and canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) were performed to evaluate multi-omic relationships. ALI patients exhibited reduced gut microbial diversity and increased abundance of Enterococcus and Escherichia-Shigella, alongside a depletion of beneficial taxa (Faecalibacterium, Bacteroides). CXCL3, CD48, and IRAK3 were identified as robust ALI biomarkers (Area Under the Curve >0.83), validated in both serum and Bronchoalveolar Lavage Fluid. These genes correlated positively with pro-inflammatory microbes and immune cell infiltration. Functional prediction revealed enrichment in lipopolysaccharide biosynthesis, Toll-like receptor signaling, and bacterial chemotaxis. CCA confirmed that microbiota variation significantly explained host transcriptomic variance. Our study uncovers a functional gut-lung immunological axis in post-LT ALI. Gut dysbiosis modulates immune gene expression and lung inflammation, suggesting that the microbiome serves as a potential source of diagnostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets in transplant-associated lung injury.
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a common degenerative joint disorder associated with aging, marked by chondrocyte senescence, cartilage degradation, and chronic inflammation. Although cellular senescence significantly contributes to OA progression, the molecular mechanisms governing this process are not fully understood. Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 3 (IRAK3) acts as a negative regulator of Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling; however, its role in OA and chondrocyte senescence remains unclear. We employed bioinformatics analysis, human OA cartilage samples, a destabilization of the medial meniscus (DMM) mouse model, and in vitro assays in ATDC5 chondrocytes to explore the expression and functional role of IRAK3 in OA. To evaluate senescence, mitochondrial function, reactive oxygen species (ROS), and inflammatory signaling, we conducted gain- and loss-of-function experiments alongside biochemical and histological analyses. IRAK3 expression was markedly reduced in both human and murine osteoarthritis (OA) cartilage. Silencing IRAK3 intensified hydrogen peroxide-induced senescence, mitochondrial dysfunction, reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, and catabolic metabolism, whereas its overexpression offered protective effects. Mechanistically, IRAK3 inhibited the TLR7/TLR9–NF-κB pathway, leading to decreased secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines and reduced chondrocyte senescence. In vivo, intra-articular injection of adeno-associated virus (AAV) to knock down IRAK3 can promote the progression of OA in DMM mice. IRAK3 serves as a crucial inhibitor of chondrocyte senescence and the progression of osteoarthritis (OA) by reducing TLR-mediated inflammation and oxidative stress. These findings highlight IRAK3 as a promising therapeutic target for addressing senescence-related osteoarthritis.
Tumour necrosis factor (TNF) is a potent inducer of endotoxin tolerance-associated molecules, such as interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 3 (IRAK3), and also a therapeutic target in inflammatory autoimmune diseases, as it upregulates the production of inflammatory mediators. The role of IRAK3 was assessed in rheumatoid arthritis (RA), a disease which is amenable to TNF blockade. As a variant of IRAK3 lacks the death domain required for its canonical role, isoform expression was determined in different inflammatory milieu by immunoblotting. RA synovial explant expression of IRAK3 was measured by qPCR. The expression of the larger, "classical" IRAK3 isoform predominated in macrophages treated with various stimuli. The expression of IRAK3 was higher in RA synovium compared to osteoarthritis synovium. Using collagen-induced arthritis, a murine model of RA, the immunomodulatory role of IRAK3 was investigated with wild-type (WT) and IRAK3-deficient mice expressing the MHC-II Aq allele. Disease progression was significantly accelerated in IRAK3-/- mice. In addition, the circulating levels of IL-1β were greater, and there were fewer Tregs both before and after the onset of disease. Inflammatory gene expression was higher in the arthritic paws of IRAK3-/- mice. This study demonstrates that IRAK3 deficiency accelerates the progression of arthritis and increases molecular markers of disease severity."Copyright © 2025 Borghese, Williams and Clanchy.
Neuroinflammatory reactions are crucial factors in secondary brain damage following intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). Although previous studies have shown that IRAK3 is involved in immune responses, the potential effects of IRAK3 on ICH remain unclear.Collagenase IV-induced ICH mouse model. Western blotting was used to determine the expression of IRAK3 at different time points following ICH. Immunofluorescence was used to investigate the cellular localization of IRAK3. The ICH model was treated with recombinant human IRAK3 (rh-IRAK3) or IRAK3 siRNA via an intracerebroventricular injection. The effect of IRAK3 on ICH mice was assessed by Western blotting and short-term and long-term neurological function evaluation. RNA-seq was performed to explore the mechanism by which IRAK3 promotes inflammation after ICH. The mechanisms of IRAK3 and neuroinflammation will be further investigated by Western blotting, qRT-PCR and immunofluorescence. Recombinant IL-17A was used to investigate the connection between IRAK3 and the NF-κB/IL-17A signaling pathway in vivo and in vitro experiments.The expression of IRAK3 increased, peaking at 24 h, followed by a subsequent decrease after ICH. IRAK3 is mainly expressed in the microglia. RNA-seq analysis revealed 1,797 differentially expressed genes around the perihematomal brain tissue after IRAK3 siRNA treatment, with multiple inflammatory pathways being downregulated. Rh-IRAK3 treatment resulted in upregulation of the levels of inflammatory cytokines around the perihematomal tissue and exacerbated neurological function deficits. Furthermore, IRAK3 siRNA treatment markedly decreased the expression of inflammatory cytokines and microglial activation via the NF-κB/IL-17A signaling pathway. Recombinant IL-17A exacerbated the inflammatory response in vivo and in vitro; however, IRAK3 knockdown reversed this process.IRAK3 aggravates neuroinflammation by activating the NF-κB/IL-17A signaling pathway, thereby exacerbating neurological deficits following ICH. Therefore, inhibition IRAK3 may be a promising approach for treating ICH.© 2025 Wang et al.
Osteoarthritis (OA), characterized by progressive degeneration of cartilage and reactive proliferation of subchondral bone, stands as a prevalent condition in orthopedic clinics. However, the precise mechanisms underlying OA pathogenesis remain inadequately explored.In this study, Random Forest (RF), Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO), and Support Vector Machine-Recursive Feature Elimination (SVM-RFE) machine learning techniques were employed to identify hub genes. Based on these hub genes, an Artificial Neural Network (ANN) diagnostic model was constructed. The Drug Signatures Database (DSigDB) was utilized to screen small-molecule drugs targeting these hub genes, and molecular docking analyses and molecular dynamics simulations were employed to explore and validate the binding interactions between proteins and small-molecule drugs. Expression changes of the hub genes under inflammatory conditions were validated through in vitro experiments, including RT-qPCR and Western blotting, and the therapeutic effects of the identified small-molecule drug on chondrocytes under inflammatory conditions were further verified in vitro. Lastly, Mendelian randomization analysis was conducted to examine the causal association between progesterone levels and various OA phenotypes.In this study, we identified three hub genes: interleukin 1 receptor-associated kinase 3 (IRAK3), integrin subunit beta-like 1 (ITGBL1), and Ras homolog family member U (RHOU). An Artificial Neural Network (ANN) diagnostic model constructed based on these hub genes demonstrated excellent performance in both training and validation phases. Screening with the Drug Signatures Database (DSigDB) identified progesterone as a small-molecule drug targeting these key proteins. Molecular docking analysis using AutoDock Vina revealed that progesterone exhibited binding energies of ≤ -7 kcal/mol with each of the key proteins, indicating strong binding affinity. Furthermore, molecular dynamics simulations validated the stability and strength of these interactions. RT-qPCR and Western blotting confirmed the downregulation of the hub genes in IL-1β-treated chondrocytes. Western blotting also demonstrated the potential therapeutic effects of progesterone on IL-1β-treated chondrocytes. Finally, Mendelian randomization analysis established a significant association between progesterone levels and multiple OA phenotypes.In our study, IRAK3, ITGBL1, and RHOU were identified as potential novel diagnostic and therapeutic targets for OA. Progesterone was preliminarily validated as a small-molecule drug with potential effects on OA. Further research is crucial to elucidate the pathogenesis of OA and the specific therapeutic mechanisms involved.© 2025. The Author(s).
Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 3 (IRAK3) modulates neuroinflammation. This study aimed to determine the prognostic role of serum IRAK3 in acute intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH).In this prospective observational cohort study, 152 patients with supratentorial ICH, along with 63 healthy controls, were recruited. Serum IRAK3 levels were measured at the time of enrollment for controls, at admission for all patients, and on poststroke days 1, 3, 5, 7, 10, and 15 in a subset of 63 patients. Stroke severity was assessed using the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) and hematoma volume. Poststroke 6-month modified Rankin Scale (mRS) scores were registered, with scores of 3-6 representing a poor prognosis. Multivariate models were established to investigate severity correlation and prognosis association.Serum IRAK3 levels were significantly elevated at the admission of patients, peaked at day 1, plateaued at day 3, gradually declined until day 15, and were substantially higher over the first 15 days poststroke than in controls. Admission serum IRAK3 levels were independently associated with NIHSS scores, hematoma volume, and 6-month mRS scores in a multivariate linear regression model. They were linearly correlated with the risk of poor prognosis in a restricted cubic spline analysis and were independently predictive of poor prognosis in a binary logistic regression model. Additionally, they demonstrated strong prognostic ability in the receiver operating characteristic curve analysis. Using subgroup analysis, no interactions were found between admission serum IRAK3 levels and some routine variables, such as age, gender, hypertension, and diabetes mellitus. Moreover, the model combining admission serum IRAK3, NIHSS scores, and hematoma volume demonstrated stability and clinical value in calibration and decision curve analyses.A significant increase in serum IRAK3 levels during the early phase after ICH, strongly correlated with disease severity, is independently associated with a poor 6-month prognosis, establishing serum IRAK3 as a valuable prognostic biomarker for ICH.Copyright © 2024 Ma, Wang, Tang, Li, Lv and Zhu.
This study retrospectively investigated the impact of interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase-3 (IRAK-3/IRAK-M) silencing by methylation on the likelihood of multiple sclerosis (MS) activity. This cross-sectional study included 90 patients with MS: 45 with active disease (Group 1), 45 in remission (Group 2), and 45 healthy controls. The study included quantitation of IRAK-3 methylation index (MI%), IRAK-3 mRNA, and myeloid differentiation factor88 (MyD88) and assessment of NF-κB activity. IRAK-3 MI% was significantly higher in group 1 compared to group 2, accompanied by lower IRAK-3 mRNA expression, elevated circulating MyD88, and increased NF-κB activity. IRAK-3 MI% correlated negatively with its transcript and positively with MyD88 and NF-κB activity. A logistic regression model was created to predict active demyelination. The C-index was 0.924, which indicates a very strong prediction model. Within the limitations of current work, IRAK-3 methylation level seems to be a promising candidate biomarker for identifying MS patients at risk of relapse.Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Pyroptosis plays a key role in the death of cells including cardiomyocytes, and it is associated with a variety of cardiovascular diseases. However, the role of pyroptosis-related genes (PRGs) in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is not well characterized. This study aimed to identify key biomarkers and explore the molecular mechanisms underlying the functions of the PRGs in HCM. The differentially expressed genes were identified by GEO2R, and the differentially expressed pyroptosis-related genes (DEPRGs) of HCM were identified by combining with PRGs. Enrichment analysis was performed using the "clusterProfiler" package of the R software. Protein-protein interactions (PPI) network analysis was performed using the STRING database, and hub genes were screened using cytoHubba. TF-miRNA coregulatory networks and protein-chemical interactions were analyzed using NetworkAnalyst. RT-PCR/WB was used for expression validation of HCM diagnostic markers. Quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and Western Blot (WB) were used to measure and compare the expression of the identified genes in the cardiac hypertrophy model and the control group. A total of 20 DEPRGs were identified, which primarily showed enrichment for the positive regulation of cytokine production, regulation of response to biotic stimulus, tumor necrosis factor production, and other biological processes. These processes primarily involved pathways related to Renin-angiotensin system, Adipocytokine signaling pathway and NF-kappa B signaling pathway. Then, a PPI network was constructed, and 8 hub genes were identified. After verification analysis, the finally identified HCM-related diagnostic markers were upregulated gene protein tyrosine phosphatase non-receptor type 11 (PTPN11), downregulated genes interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 3 (IRAK3), and annexin A2 (ANXA2). Further GSEA analysis revealed these 3 biomarkers primarily related to cardiac muscle contraction, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, fatty acid degradation and ECM - receptor interaction. Moreover, we also elucidated the interaction network of these biomarkers with the miRNA network and known compounds, respectively. RT-PCR/WB results indicated that PTPN11 expression was significantly increased, and IRAK3 and ANXA2 expressions were significantly decreased in HCM. This study identified PTPN11, IRAK3, and ANXA2 as pyroptosis-associated biomarkers of HCM, with the potential to reveal the development and pathogenesis of HCM and could be potential therapeutic targets.Copyright © 2024 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Porous precision-templated scaffolds (PTS) with uniform, interconnected, 40 μm pores have shown favorable healing outcomes and a reduced foreign body reaction (FBR). Macrophage receptor with collagenous structure (MARCO) and toll-like receptors (TLRs) have been identified as key surface receptors in the initial inflammatory phase of wound healing. However, the role of MARCO and TLRs in modulating monocyte and macrophage phenotypes within PTS remains uncharacterized. In this study, we demonstrate a synergetic relationship between MARCO and TLR signaling in cells inhabiting PTS, where induction with TLR3 or TLR4 agonists to 40 μm scaffold-resident cells upregulates the transcription of MARCO. Upon deletion of MARCO, the prohealing phenotype within 40 μm PTS polarizes to a proinflammatory and profibrotic phenotype. Analysis of downstream TLR signaling shows that MARCO is required to attenuate nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) inflammation in 40 μm PTS by regulating the transcription of inhibitory NFKB inhibitor alpha (NFKBIA) and interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 3 (IRAK-M), primarily through a MyD88-dependent signaling pathway. Investigation of implant outcome in the absence of MARCO demonstrates an increase in collagen deposition within the scaffold and the development of tissue fibrosis. Overall, these results further our understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying MARCO and TLR signaling within PTS. Impact statement Monocyte and macrophage phenotypes in the foreign body reaction (FBR) are essential for the development of a proinflammatory, prohealing, or profibrotic response to implanted biomaterials. Identification of key surface receptors and signaling mechanisms that give rise to these phenotypes remain to be elucidated. In this study, we report a synergistic relationship between macrophage receptor with collagenous structure (MARCO) and toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling in scaffold-resident cells inhabiting porous precision-templated 40 μm pore scaffolds through a MyD88-dependent pathway that promotes healing. These findings advance our understanding of the FBR and provide further evidence that suggests MARCO, TLRs, and fibrosis may be interconnected.
Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 3 (IRAK3) may modulate inflammation in brain immunity. We determined the prognostic role of serum IRAK3 in severe traumatic brain injury (sTBI).In this prospective longitudinal cohort study, serum IRAK3 concentrations of 131 sTBI patients and 131 controls were quantified. Extended Glasgow outcome scale (GOSE) scores of 1-4 at 180 days after trauma signified a poor prognosis. Univariate and multivariate analyses were sequentially adopted to appraise severity correlations and prognosis associations.There were significantly higher serum IRAK3 concentrations in patients than in controls. Serum IRAK3 concentrations of patients were independently correlated with Glasgow coma scale (GCS) scores, Rotterdam computed tomography (CT) scores and posttraumatic180-day GOSE scores. Also, IRAK3 concentrations were independently associated with 180-day poor prognosis, but not with death. Prognosis prediction model, in which GCS scores, Rotterdam scores and serum IRAK3 concentrations were merged, was portrayed using the nomogram. The model was rather stable, clinically usable and efficiently discriminative of poor prognosis under calibration curve, decision curve and receiver operating characteristic curve.A substantial enhancement of serum IRAK3 concentrations after head trauma is independently related to severity and neurological outcome, substantializing serum IRAK3 as a promising prognostic biomarker of sTBI.Copyright © 2023 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This study investigated the effects of low-intensity resistance training with blood flow restriction (LTBFR) compared with higher-intensity resistance training (HT) on circulating irisin, myostatin, and hypoxia-inducible factor-1 alpha (HIF-1α) in young adults with overweight, with particular focus on the relative contributions of mechanical loading and hypoxic stress.Twenty-eight participants with overweight were randomized to LTBFR (40% one-repetition maximum + 60% arterial occlusion pressure, n = 14) or HT (70% one-repetition maximum, n = 14). Both groups trained three times per week for eight weeks. Body composition and serum biomarkers were assessed before and after the intervention.A total of 12 participants in each group (LTBFR and HT) were included in the analysis. At baseline, anthropometric and body composition variables did not differ between groups (p > 0.05). After 8 weeks of training, arm circumference increased in both groups (p < 0.05), whereas thigh circumference increased only in the HT group (p < 0.05). Circulating irisin concentrations increased significantly following training in both groups (p < 0.05), with a significantly greater increase observed in HT compared with LTBFR (group × time interaction, p < 0.05). Myostatin levels remained unchanged (p > 0.05). HIF-1α concentrations increased significantly in both groups (p < 0.05), with no significant group × time interaction.HT elicited greater increases in circulating irisin and increased thigh circumference, highlighting the role of mechanical loading in myokine and muscular adaptations. Both HT and LTBFR increased HIF-1α, indicating engagement of hypoxia- and metabolic-sensitive pathways across modalities, suggesting that LTBFR can serve as an effective low-load alternative to HT when higher-intensity resistance training is not feasible.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1RAs) like semaglutide have transformed type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) management, yet emerging concerns highlight potential risks of accelerated sarcopenia and subsequent metabolic disruptions. This case-driven hypothesis explores a 53-year-old male with T2DM diagnosed in 2014, who experienced progressive glycemic failure despite standard therapies, including metformin, glipizide, sitagliptin, and empagliflozin. Transition to dulaglutide 1.5 mg for 1.5 years followed by semaglutide (titrated from 0.25 to 1 mg weekly starting September 2024) resulted in weight loss from 84 kg to 70 kg by September 2025, accompanied by sarcopenic symptoms (muscle weakness, reduced mobility) and refractory hyperglycemia (fasting glucose 300 mg/dL, HbA1c 9%), persisting post-discontinuation on September 1, 2025, despite metformin and empagliflozin. We posit that semaglutide may precipitate acute sarcopenia via unexpected GLP-1R-mTOR-satellite cells axis crosstalk, disrupting AMPK-mTOR balance to suppress anabolic mTORC1/IGF-1 signaling (potentially by 25-35%) while enhancing catabolic FOXO/ubiquitin-proteasome and excessive autophagy pathways. This could extend to myokine reprogramming (elevated myostatin/GDF15, reduced irisin/IL-15), glucagon/α-cell compensation inducing hyperglucagonemia (15-25% rise), microbiome-bile acid shifts fostering low-grade inflammation (IL-6/TNF-α upregulation by 10-15%), mitochondrial mass reduction (20-25% via AMPK), and NMJ disassembly, collectively impairing muscle as the primary glucose sink (reducing GLUT4-mediated uptake by 35-45%) and initiating a «muscle-glucose feedback loop» with hepatic gluconeogenesis amplification, yielding treatment-resistant hyperglycemia.Supporting evidence from cohorts (e.g., 24-month study showing ASMI/grip strength declines in 432 patients), longitudinal analyses (NMJ degradation with CAF22/NfL elevations in 141 men), secondary trials (9.3% psoas volume loss in 51 MASLD cases), and case reports (fatigue in a 74-year-old, rhabdomyolysis in a 47-year-old) aligns with this framework, as does in vitro data linking GLP-1 excess to kinesin-1/GLUT4 inhibition and ATP depletion (20-30%). This novel hypothesis underscores sarcopenia's role in GLP-1RA-induced metabolic paradoxes, urging prospective studies on muscle-preserving interventions like resistance training or GLP-1R modulators to refine T2DM paradigms and inspire multidisciplinary research into endocrine-muscle interactions.
Skeletal muscle in teleost fish is traditionally regarded as a contractile tissue supporting locomotion; however, increasing evidence in vertebrates suggests that muscle also participates in immune regulation, stress adaptation, and tissue homeostasis. Despite this, the baseline spatial distribution of immune- and stress-associated proteins in teleost skeletal muscle remains insufficiently characterized. Here, we applied an integrated multiscale imaging approach combining histology, histochemistry, immunohistochemistry, semithin sectioning, and transmission electron microscopy to define the structural organization and molecular landscape of skeletal muscle in the molly fish (Poecilia sphenops). Light microscopy revealed highly organized W-shaped myomeres separated by connective myosepta, while ultrastructural analysis demonstrated well-defined sarcomeric architecture with abundant mitochondria, sarcoplasmic reticulum, and glycogen deposits, consistent with high metabolic activity. Immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated constitutive localization of proteins associated with inflammatory signaling (IL-1β, NF-κB, iNOS), oxidative stress regulation (Nrf2), growth modulation (myostatin, TGF-β), calcium-binding and signaling (S100), and developmental regulation (SOX9) within skeletal muscle fibers. These findings establish the presence of a broad group of immune- and stress-related molecular components in teleost skeletal muscle under physiological conditions. Collectively, this study provides a comprehensive structural and molecular baseline map of P. sphenops skeletal muscle and introduces a reproducible multiscale imaging framework for comparative, environmental, and experimental investigations of muscle biology in teleosts.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42528605 is a review article
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder increasingly associated with gut microbiota alterations, yet the mechanisms by which microbial metabolites influence PD remain unclear. Here, we applied an integrative computational and experimental strategy to identify key gut microbial metabolites and host genes potentially involved in PD. Differentially abundant gut microbes were obtained from the gutMDisorder database and their corresponding metabolites from gutMGene, with predicted protein targets generated using the Similarity Ensemble Approach. Transcriptomic data from PD brain tissues were analyzed to identify differentially expressed genes, which were intersected with metabolite targets, followed by enrichment and protein-protein interaction analyses. Three machine learning algorithms were applied for gene prioritization, while molecular docking evaluated metabolite-gene binding affinities and ProTox3.0 predicted toxicity and blood-brain barrier permeability. In vitro assays further assessed the functional effects of 3-indolepropionic acid in a rotenone-induced SH-SY5Y cell model. Our analyses identified 44 PD-associated microbial taxa linked to 77 metabolites and 905 predicted target genes, with 29 overlapping differentially expressed genes enriched in synaptic signaling and dopaminergic pathways. Dopamine receptor D2 (DRD2) emerged as a central hub gene, with strong docking interactions predicted for two indole metabolites, 3-(1H-indol-3-yl)propanoate and 3-indolepropionic acid. Functional validation showed that 3-indolepropionic acid improved cell viability, reduced apoptosis, and preserved DRD2 expression under neurotoxic stress. Together, these findings suggest that specific gut microbial metabolites may modulate host dopaminergic signaling via DRD2, offering new insights into the microbiota-brain axis and potential targets for further PD research.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42512251 is a review article
Tic disorder (TD) is a common neurodevelopmental disorder in children. Acute histamine deficiency may be involved in the pathogenesis of TDs. In this study, we demonstrate that histamine depletion exacerbates tic-like behaviors in a rat model of TD. Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into control, TD model, TD plus saline, and TD plus α-fluoromethylhistidine (α-FMH) groups. TD was induced by intraperitoneal iminodipropionitrile, and α-FMH was administered intracerebroventricularly. Behavioral assessments showed that α-FMH treatment significantly increased stereotyped and motor behavior scores compared with TD groups (p < 0.05). Immunohistochemistry revealed marked microglial activation in the striatum of TD groups, which was exacerbated by histamine deficiency. Striatal IL-6 and TNF-α levels were elevated in all TD groups; IL-6 was significantly higher in the α-FMH group than in TD groups (p < 0.05). Striatal dopamine receptor D2 (DRD2) expression was also upregulated in TD groups, with the highest levels observed after histamine depletion (p < 0.05). Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry result showed that glutamate levels were significantly reduced in the α-FMH group compared to the TD-NaCl group (p < 0.05). No significant differences were observed in the levels of dopamine, serotonin, or acetylcholine between the TD-NaCl and TD-α-FMH groups. Overall, our findings suggest that acute histamine deficiency aggravates TD-related behaviors by promoting neuroinflammation and upregulating DRD2 expression, highlighting the therapeutic potential of targeting histamine signaling in TD.
Glioblastoma (GBM) remains the most lethal primary brain tumor, with a median survival of 15 months and a 10-year survival rate of <1%. While current research into the dopaminergic system has largely focused on dopamine receptor antagonists, we aimed to investigate the potential therapeutic benefit of dopamine agonists (dopamine receptor D2) through the observation of incidental "super-survivors."We report two cases of adult GBM patients who received concurrent treatment with dopamine agonists for unrelated comorbidities. The first patient, treated with the ergot derivative bromocriptine for a prolactinoma, presented with multifocal disease and underwent subtotal resection. Despite developing a recurrence, he remains alive and progression-free for >11 years after diagnosis. The second patient, a 70-year-old male with Parkinson's disease treated with the non-ergot dopamine agonist pramipexole and with Sinemet, which increases the amount of available dopamine. He had a low Karnofsky Performance Score and received minimal adjuvant therapy. Despite these poor prognostic factors, he achieved a progression-free survival of 15 months and did not succumb to tumor progression.These observational cases suggest a hypothetical association between dopamine agonist therapy and improved survival outcomes in GBM, challenging the current paradigm that favors receptor antagonism. Given the safety, low cost, and blood-brain barrier penetrance of these Food and Drug Administration-approved drugs, we propose that dopamine agonists warrant further investigation as repurposed adjuvant agents in GBM treatment.Copyright: © 2026 Surgical Neurology International.
Inflammation is a key driver of age-related disease and has been associated with social conditions. We examined how cumulative community-level social and structural disadvantage is associated with inflammatory proteomic profiles in older Black adults.We employed data from the Minority Aging Research Study and the Rush Clinical Core, including the Social Vulnerability Index (SVI; global score and four domains) and 92 plasma inflammatory proteins (Olink® Target-96 Inflammation). Cross-sectional associations between each SVI metric and inflammatory proteins (principal component (PC)-derived global proteomic profile and protein-specific) were assessed using multivariable linear models (demographic, behavioral, and individual-level socioeconomic factors adjusted), with additional sex-by-SVI interaction terms. In a secondary analysis, we replaced SVI with the Index of Concentration at the Extremes (ICE) for household income (ICEincome).A total of 580 participants (mean (SD) age of 74.9 (6.50) years; 79.7% women) had global SVI and proteomics assessed. Lower household composition (SVIHHC) was associated with the primary global proteomic profile, represented by the 1st proteomic PC (beta = -0.429, p-value = 0.019). A secondary exploratory analysis using the first five proteomic PCs showed that higher minority status/language (SVIMSL) and socioeconomic status (SVISES) were associated with an inflammatory proteomic profile (SVIMSL-PC3: beta=0.160, p-value = 0.048; SVISES-PC2: beta = 0.286, p-value = 0.012). In protein-specific analyses, no SVI-protein associations were found. We found an SVIHHC-by-sex interaction for interleukin-10 receptor alpha (IL-10RA; beta = -0.258, p-value = 5.01×10-4), and among men, SVIMSL was associated with Sirtuin 2 (beta = -0.397, p-value = 8.51×10-04) and STAM binding protein (beta = -0.304, p-value = 9.87×10-04). ICEincome was inversely associated with the global proteomic profile (beta = -0.233, p-value = 0.051), and an ICEincome-by-sex interaction was found for IL-10RA (beta=0.279, p-value = 4.66×10-04).By analyzing associations between community-level factors and inflammation-related proteins, our study provides new molecular insights into how social context may relate to biological risk, identifies proteomic patterns that could inform the development of community-level interventions, and underscores the utility of integrating multi-omics approaches to investigate biological pathways relevant to health disparities research.© 2026. The Author(s).
Colorectal cancer (CRC) remains difficult to treat due to challenges in early detection and the development of therapeutic resistance. Dopamine receptor D2 (DRD2) plays a critical role in regulating cell proliferation and apoptosis in various solid tumors. Given the relatively high levels of dopamine in the gastrointestinal tract, colorectal tumors may be particularly susceptible to DRD2-mediated signaling. In this study, we evaluated the anticancer activity of a newly synthesized DRD2 antagonist, SD2-2305, and investigated its underlying mechanisms in human CRC cell lines HCT116 and HT-29. SD2-2305 reduced cell viability in a time- and dose-dependent manner. Induction of apoptosis was confirmed by Annexin V/PI staining and immunoblot analysis, with activation of caspase-3, caspase-7, and caspase-9, although no significant changes were observed in the expression of Bcl-2 family proteins. Furthermore, SD2-2305 induced G1 phase cell cycle arrest, accompanied by downregulation of Cyclin A, Cyclin B, CDK1, and CDK2, and upregulation of p21. While key survival pathways (JAK2/STAT3, PI3K/Akt, and MAPK) remained relatively unaffected, SD2-2305 modulated growth factor receptors post-transcriptionally, decreasing HER2/ErbB2 and increasing TGF-beta receptor 1 expression. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that the DRD2 antagonist SD2-2305 exerts potent anticancer effects through the induction of cell cycle arrest and apoptosis, and suggest that the anticancer activity of SD2-2305 is associated with coordinated modulation of growth factor receptor signaling and cell-cycle regulators in CRC cells.
Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a leading cause of central vision loss worldwide. Emerging evidence suggests that targeting dopaminergic pathways may influence AMD progression. This study evaluates whether levodopa ± carbidopa or dopamine receptor D2 (DRD2) agonists are associated with reduced risk of conversion to neovascular AMD (nAMD).Population-based clinical cohort study.Adults aged ≥18 years diagnosed with non-nAMD between May 2005 and May 2025, within the TriNetX US Collaborative Network, a federated electronic health record database spanning 69 healthcare organizations.This retrospective cohort study emulated four distinct target trials comparing new users of (1) levodopa (± carbidopa) or (2) DRD2 agonists (pramipexole, ropinirole, bromocriptine, rotigotine, or cabergoline) to new users of two comparators (pantoprazole or gabapentin). Patients with prior nAMD or prescriptions of other dopamine-enhancing agents (eg, selegiline, rasagiline, tolcapone) were excluded. Each exposure group was independently matched to comparators using 1:1 propensity score matching for selected demographics, social factors, comorbidities, and AMD stage.The primary outcome was 3-year risk of conversion from non-nAMD to nAMD. Hazard ratios (HRs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated. An α level of 0.05 was used to determine statistical significance.Patients prescribed levodopa ± carbidopa had a reduced 3-year risk of conversion to nAMD relative to their matched counterparts prescribed pantoprazole (levodopa n = 1312, control n = 1312; HR 0.67; 95% CI, 0.45-0.98) and gabapentin (levodopa n = 1675, control n = 1675; HR 0.69; 95% CI, 0.50-0.95). No significant difference was observed in 3-year risk of conversion to nAMD between DRD2 agonists use relative to pantoprazole (DRD2 n = 1603, control n = 1603; HR 0.81; 95% CI, 0.58-1.13) or gabapentin (DRD2 n = 2779, control n = 2779; HR 0.92; 95% CI, 0.72-1.19).In this cohort study, levodopa ± carbidopa use was associated with lower 3-year risk of conversion to nAMD in two independent matched comparisons, whereas DRD2 agonists were not associated with significant differences in risk. These findings suggest dopaminergic signaling may influence AMD progression and warrant further prospective investigation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Exosomes derived from bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) represent a promising cell-free strategy for intervertebral disc degeneration (IDD). Here, we obtained oxidative stress-preconditioned exosomes (O-Exos) from BMSCs exposed to low-concentration hydrogen peroxide. Compared with exosomes from untreated cells (N-Exos), O-Exos more effectively delayed nucleus pulposus (NP) cell senescence and attenuated IDD in vitro and in vivo. The superior effects of O-Exos were associated with restoration of mitophagy and improved mitochondrial homeostasis in TNF/TNF-α-treated NP cells. BMF (Bcl2 modifying factor) was identified as a functionally relevant downstream target suppressed by O-Exos, and Bmf deficiency promoted mitophagy and alleviated IDD. Further analyses showed that O-Exos relieved the inhibitory effect of BMF on BCL2L13-LC3B coupling, thereby restoring mitophagy. In addition, exosomal Mir29a-3p was required for BMF suppression and the superior activity of O-Exos. Together, these findings identify oxidative stress preconditioning as an effective strategy to enhance exosome potency against IDD.Abbreviations: ACAN: aggrecan; BCL2L13: BCL2 like 13; BMF: Bcl2 modifying factor; BMSCs: bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; BNIP3: BCL2 interacting protein 3; CDKN1A: cyclin dependent kinase inhibitor 1A; CDKN2A: cyclin dependent kinase inhibitor 2A; COL2A1: collagen type II alpha 1 chain; DHI: disc height index; FUNDC1: FUN14 domain containing 1; H2O2: hydrogen peroxide; IDD: intervertebral disc degeneration; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MMP3: matrix metallopeptidase 3; MRI: nuclear magnetic resonance imaging; N-Exos: exosomes derived from untreated BMSCs; NP: nucleus pulposus; O-Exos: exosomes derived from H2O2-preconditioned BMSCs; OCR: oxygen consumption rate; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; ROS: reactive oxygen species; RT-qPCR: reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction; SA-GLB1/β-gal: senescence-associated galactosidase beta 1; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TNF/TNF-alpha: tumor necrosis factor; TOMM20: translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20; TP53: tumor protein p53; WT: wild type.
An acidic polysaccharide, designated GWHP, was isolated from the husk of Juglans regia L. (green walnut husk). Its protective activity and anti-inflammatory mechanisms were systematically investigated using lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced MODE-K cell model and dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced colitis in mice. Structural characterization revealed that GWHP consisted of galacturonic acid (76.2%), galactose (8.5%), arabinose (7.4%), rhamnose (6.5%), and fucose (1.4%), with an average molecular weight of 108 kDa. GWHP administration significantly enhanced the activities of antioxidant enzymes including GSH-Px, SOD, CAT, while reduced the malondialdehyde accumulation. In LPS-induced MODE-K cells, GWHP efficiently downregulated the secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1β, TNF-α, and IL-6) and promoted the release of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10. In the DSS colitis model, GWHP administration effectively improved colonic physiological indices. Histopathological analysis further verified its dose-dependent efficacy in repairing colonic tissue damage. Furthermore, GWHP rebalanced systemic inflammatory responses by significantly reducing serum pro-inflammatory cytokines levels (TNF-α, IL-1β and IL-6) and upregulating the expression of anti-inflammatory IL-10. In addition, GWHP also rescued gut microbial diversity and community structure, specifically enriching the relative abundance of Lactobacillaceae and inhibiting the growth of opportunistic pathogens in Enterobacteriaceae. Network pharmacology analysis further verified stable binding affinity between GWHP and dopamine receptor D2, providing clues to its underlying molecular mechanism. In conclusion, GWHP can efficiently alleviate intestinal inflammatory injury, maintain gut microbiota homeostasis, and restore intestinal barrier function. These findings suggest that GWHP holds great potential as a natural functional food ingredient or preventive agent for the intervention of inflammatory bowel disease.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
To investigate the regulatory effect and mechanism of nuclear fragile X mental retardation-interacting protein 1 (NUFIP1) on the apoptosis of dendritic cells (DCs) in septic mice.Nufip1+/- C57BL/6J mice were generated, and Western blotting was performed to verify the protein expression level of NUFIP1 in splenic DCs. A total of 48 SPF male wild-type (WT) mice and Nufip1+/- mice were divided into the sham group (18 mice) and the sepsis group (30 mice). Three independent replicate experiments were conducted, and mice were grouped using a random number table in each trial. The cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) procedure was performed to establish the sepsis model in the sepsis group; mice in the Sham group only underwent laparotomy and cecal separation without ligation. Twenty-four hours after operation, orbital blood was collected. The mice were then sacrificed, and heart, lung, liver, kidney tissues as well as spleens were harvested for isolation and extraction of splenic DCs. Flow cytometry was applied to detect the apoptosis rate of splenic DCs. Western blotting was used to determine the protein expression levels of apoptosis-related proteins including caspase-3, Bcl-2, heat shock protein 5 (HSPA5), eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2 alpha kinase 3 (EIF2AK3), phosphorylated EIF2AK3 (p-EIF2AK3), eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2A (EIF2A), phosphorylated EIF2A (p-EIF2A), activating transcription factor 4 (ATF4) and DNA damage-inducible transcript 3 protein (DDIT3) in splenic DCs. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was adopted to detect the serum levels of interleukins (IL-2, IL-4, IL-10), transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) and interferon-γ (IFN-γ). Hematoxylin-eosin (HE) staining was performed to observe the injury of heart, lung, liver and kidney under light microscope. The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) morphology of splenic DCs was observed under a laser confocal microscope. An additional 20 WT mice and 20 Nufip1+/- mice were respectively assigned to the sham group and sepsis group, with 10 animals in each subgroup. The 7-day survival rate after CLP was observed in all groups.Western blotting results showed that the protein expression level of NUFIP1 in splenic DCs of Nufip1+/- mice was lower than that of WT mice (NUFIP1/β-actin: 1.080±0.233 vs. 2.178±0.440, P<0.05), indicating the successful construction of NUFIP1 gene-deficient mice. Flow cytometry results revealed that the apoptosis rate of splenic DCs at 24 h after CLP in the Nufip1+/- sepsis group was higher than that in the WT sepsis group [(43.41±1.70)% vs. (30.43±4.99)%, P<0.05]. Meanwhile, compared with the WT sepsis group, the protein expression level of caspase-3 in splenic DCs was increased, while the protein expression level of Bcl-2 was decreased in the Nufip1+/- sepsis group (caspase-3/β-actin: 1.23±0.17 vs. 0.59±0.14, Bcl-2/β-actin: 0.46±0.13 vs. 0.72±0.08, all P<0.05). Compared with the WT sepsis group, the serum levels of IL-2 and IFN-γ in the Nufip1+/- sepsis group were decreased [IL-2 (ng/L): 8.54±0.27 vs. 209.70±1.56; IFN-γ (ng/L): 391.60±9.24 vs. 512.70±31.50, all P<0.05], whereas the serum levels of IL-4, IL-10 and TGF-β were increased [IL-4 (ng/L): 73.19±2.38 vs. 28.52±0.98; IL-10 (ng/L): 359.20±2.02 vs. 267.60±5.05; TGF-β (ng/L): 826.20±26.73 vs. 497.30±3.33, all P<0.05], and the IFN-γ/IL-4 ratio was decreased (7.98±0.46 vs. 16.59±0.40, P<0.05). These findings suggested that peripheral immunosuppression was further aggravated in Nufip1+/- mice during sepsis relative to WT mice. HE staining demonstrated that the injury of heart, lung, liver, kidney and other tissues in the Nufip1+/- sepsis group was markedly severer than that in the WT sepsis group, and the 7-day survival rate was lower in Nufip1+/- mice [20% (2/10) vs. 50% (5/10), P<0.05). Compared with the WT sepsis group, the protein expression levels of HSPA5, the ratio of p-EIF2AK3 to EIF2AK3, the ratio of p-EIF2A to EIF2A, ATF4 and DDIT3 in splenic DCs after CLP were all up-regulated in the Nufip1+/- sepsis group (HSPA5/β-actin: 0.93±0.38 vs. 0.34±0.02, p-EIF2AK3/EIF2AK3 ratio: 1.67±0.28 vs. 0.59±0.05, p-EIF2A/EIF2A ratio: 0.90±0.09 vs. 0.61±0.08, ATF4/β-actin: 1.71±0.77 vs. 1.60±0.48, DDIT3/β-actin: 1.18±0.12 vs. 0.56±0.34, all P<0.05). Laser confocal microscopy showed that the morphological changes of ER in splenic DCs of the Nufip1+/- sepsis group were more obvious than those in the WT sepsis group, presenting irregular distortion, swelling and fragmentation.NUFIP1 gene deficiency induces extensive apoptosis of splenic DCs in the early stage of sepsis, further aggravate peripheral immunosuppression, exacerbate multiple organ damage and worsen survival outcomes in septic animals.
Protein tyrosine phosphatases (PTPs) are pivotal in cellular signal transduction. Recent studies have identified protein tyrosine phosphatase, non-receptor type 1 (PTPN1), as a novel immune checkpoint. However, its effects and underlying mechanisms in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remain underexplored. This study aims to elucidate the impact of PTPN1 on the prognosis of HCC patients, the tumor microenvironment (TME), and the biological behavior of HCC cells, with the goal of assessing its clinical potential in HCC.Expression profiles and clinical data for liver cancer patients were obtained from the TCGA database, while single-cell RNA sequencing data were sourced from the GEO database. Corresponding cell function assays were conducted for further validation.PTPN1 mRNA expression was significantly elevated in liver cancer, with higher levels correlating with increased malignancy. Cox analysis found PTPN1 as an influencing factor for prognosis of HCC patients. Gene function and pathway analyses revealed that PTPN1 is implicated in immune-related pathways associated with cancer and hematopoiesis. Notably, PTPN1 expression was found to suppress infiltration of CD8+ T cells. Further investigations using single-cell RNA sequencing and experimental assays demonstrated that silencing PTPN1 in T cell populations enhanced JAK2 and STAT5 expression in CD8+ T cells, as well as their proliferation. Additionally, PTPN1 overexpression in liver cancer cells promoted cell proliferation and invasion through activation of the PI3K-AKT signaling pathway.PTPN1 may inhibit T cell proliferation via the JAK2-STAT5 axis while simultaneously advancing liver cancer progression by activating the PI3K-AKT pathway in cancer cells. These findings suggest that PTPN1 could serve as a promising target for immunotherapy in liver cancer.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
White spot syndrome virus (WSSV) devastates shrimp aquaculture, yet safe antivirals remain scarce. Here we identify a druggable host-directed pathway centered on hemocyanin (HMC). This pathway coordinates endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-mitochondrial crosstalk to promote WSSV replication, which could be counteracted by the natural anthraquinone emodin. In Litopenaeus vannamei, emodin suppressed viral replication with a half maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50) of 1.174 μM, improved survival in both therapeutic and prophylactic regimens, remained effective after per os administration, and retained antiviral activity in water for up to 4 d. Target fishing, orthogonal biophysics, and docking analyses show that emodin binds HMC (Kd = 4.49 μM) and interferes with HMC-HSPA5/BiP (heat shock protein family A (Hsp70) member 5) association. Mechanistically, emodin weakens the ITPR/IP3R (inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor)-VDAC (voltage dependent anion channel)-MCU (mitochondrial calcium uniporter) conduit at ER-mitochondrial contact sites, thereby limiting Ca2+ transfer, restoring mitochondrial membrane potential and organelle spacing, and attenuating ER stress. Untargeted metabolomics revealed that WSSV induced phosphoinositide and amino acid dysregulation, whereas emodin selectively normalizes phosphatidylinositol (PtdIns) and phosphatidylinositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (PtdIns[1,4,5]P3) signaling and rebalances amino acid, tricarboxylic acid (TCA) intermediates. Correspondingly, emodin inhibited phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)-AKT/protein kinase B-MTOR (mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase) complex 1 (MTORC1) signaling and restored lysosome-dependent macroautophagy/autophagy. HMC RNAi or ITPR and MCU inhibition phenocopied emodin, whereas exogenous HMC or ER stress activation exacerbated infection and was mitigated by emodin or MCU blockade. These findings establish HMC-anchored ER-mitochondrial contact as a central proviral vulnerability and position emodin as a practical scaffold for next-generation antivirals in aquaculture.Abbreviations: 2-APB: 2-aminoethyl diphenylborinate; 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; ΔΨm: mitochondrial membrane potential; AKT/protein kinase B: AKT serine/threonine kinase; ATG1/ULK1: autophagy related 1; ATG13: autophagy related 13; BSA: bovine serum albumin; CETSA: cellular thermal shift assay; Co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; DAPI: 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole; DDIT3/Chop: DNA damage inducible transcript 3; DMSO: dimethyl sulfoxide; EAS6B: epoxy-activated sepharose 6B; EGTA: ethylene glycol tetraacetic acid; EIF4EBP1: eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E binding protein 1; EPC: epithelioma papulosum cyprini; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; HMC: hemocyanin; HPLC-MS: high performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry; HRP: horseradish peroxidase; HSPA5/BiP: heat shock protein family A (Hsp70) member 5; HSPA9/GRP75: heat shock protein family A (Hsp70) member 5; ITPR/IP3R: inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor; KEGG: Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes; LAMP1: lysosome associated membrane protein 1; LC-MS: liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry; MAMs: mitochondria-associated ER membranes; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MCU: mitochondrial calcium uniporter; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; MTORC1: MTOR complex 1; OPLS-DA: orthogonal partial least squares-discriminant analysis; PA: phosphatidic acid; PBS: phosphate-buffered saline; PC: phosphatidylcholine; PCA: principal component analysis; PE: phosphatidylethanolamine; PI3K: phosphoinositide 3-kinase; PLS-DA: partial least squares-discriminant analysis; PS: phosphatidylserine; PtdIns: phosphatidylinositol; PtdIns(1,4,5)P3: phosphatidylinositol (1,4,5)-trisphosphate; PtdIns(3,4,5)P3: phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5)-trisphosphate; PtdIns(4,5)P2: phosphatidylinositol (4,5)-bisphosphate; RPS6KB1/S6K1: ribosomal protein S6 kinase B1; SDS-PAGE: sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TCA: tricarboxylic acid cycle; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TFEB: transcription factor EB; UPR: unfolded protein response; VDAC: voltage dependent anion channel; WSSV: white spot syndrome virus; XBP1: X-box binding protein 1.
Disruption of proteostasis is a defining feature of cancer and other chronic diseases. The AAA+ ATPase VCP/p97 (valosin containing protein) is a key regulator of proteostasis by disassembling ubiquitinated substrates for degradation. VCP overexpression supports cancer cell survival and correlates with poor prognosis, promoting the development of VCP inhibitors as anti-cancer agents. However, the molecular basis for cancer-selective vulnerability of VCP inhibition remains unclear. Here, we demonstrate that allosteric VCP inhibition triggers cell-type specific macroautophagy/autophagy through dynamic reorganization of organelle contact sites. In human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs), VCP inhibition induces adaptive autophagy through coordinated reorganization of plasma membrane (PM)-ER-mitochondria contacts. Controlled opening of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore (mPTP) releases calcium into the cytosol, activating AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) and TFEB pathways, collectively enhancing autophagic flux and sustaining endothelial survival. Critically, calcium-activated kinase inhibitor or calcium chelators blocked VCP inhibitor-induced autophagy in HUVECs, confirming calcium signaling as the central mediator of adaptive autophagy. In contrast, HCT116 colon cancer cells fail to maintain calcium homeostasis under VCP inhibition, leading to mitochondrial calcium overload, defective autophagy, and cell death. Together, our findings identify organelle contact reorganization and calcium homeostasis as key determinants of cell fate under conditions of proteotoxic stress, revealing how VCP inhibition selectively suppresses tumor progression while preserving vascular integrity that could enhance drug delivery and reduce tumor hypoxia.Abbreviations: ATF4: activating transcription factor 4; ATG3: autophagy related 3; ATG7: autophagy related 7; ATP: adenosine triphosphate; CAMKK2: calcium/calmodulin dependent protein kinase 2; CETSA: cellular thermal shift assay; CQ: chloroquine; CTS: cryptotanshinone; DDIT3/CHOP: DNA damage inducible transcript 3; DQ-BSA: dye quenched-bovine serum albumin; EIF2A: eukaryotic initiation factor 2A; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; ERAD: endoplasmic reticulum-associated protein degradation; HCT116: human colon carcinoma cell line; HSPA5: heat shock protein family A (Hsp70) member 5; HUVECs: human umbilical vein endothelial cells; ITPR1/IP3R1: inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 1; MAP1LC3B/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; mPTP: mitochondrial permeability transition pore; MT-ND1: mitochondrially encoded NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase core subunit 1; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; ORAI1: ORAI calcium release-activated calcium modulator 1; PLA: proximity ligation assay; PM: plasma membrane; PRKAA/AMPK: protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha; ROS: reactive oxygen species; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; STIM1: stromal interaction molecule 1; TFEB: transcription factor EB; U87MG: human glioblastoma astrocytoma cell line; FAF2/UBXD8: Fas associated factor family member 2; UPR: unfolded protein response; VCP/p97: valosin containing protein; VDAC1: voltage dependent anion channel 1.
Inflammatory activation is a major cause to nasal diseases, such as chronic rhinosinusitis and allergic rhinitis. However, in vitro research model to mimic the process of olfactory inflammation and to screen new therapeutic target is still lacking.We established three inflammatory models based on olfactory epithelium (OE) organoids, using lipopolysaccharide (LPS), TNFα treatment and doxycycline induction. The efficacy of these models was evaluated by immunostaining, RNA sequencing, qPCR, and functional assays.These inflammatory organoid models mimicked impairment in cell proliferation and neuronal genesis, and showed upregulation of inflammation-related signaling pathway and downregulation of cell cycle-related pathway. We identified that DNA damage inducible transcript 3 (Ddit3) was upregulated in all inflammatory organoid models. Ddit3 downregulation counteracted apoptosis, alleviated cell proliferation and neuronal differentiation, and recovered the functional response to odor stimulation in all three inflammatory organoid models. Ddit3 deficiency counteracted effect of LPS instillation by promoting cell proliferation, recovering neurogenesis, attenuating inflammation, and improving electrophysiological response to odor mixes in the OE. Single-cell RNA sequencing analysis showed that Ddit3 upregulation in mature olfactory sensory neurons of inducible inflammation model and patients with aging-related olfactory dysfunction correlated with endoplasmic reticulum stress and neuron apoptotic process.We established olfactory inflammation organoid models, and made use of these models to identify Ddit3 as a potential therapeutic target against inflammation-related olfactory neuronal loss and functional deficit.© The author(s).
Excessive macrophage activation is thought to be the primary cause of the cytokine storm that results in severe coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) complications. The underlying mechanisms remain elusive, and more research is needed to find disease-critical genes and develop effective therapies. In this study, we used publicly accessible microarray datasets of cytokine storm in cultured human monocyte-derived macrophages challenged with cytokines, and employed bioinformatics, such as weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) and differential expression analysis, to dissect gene expression profiles and identify putative disease-related molecules. Initially, three co-expression modules and related key genes were discovered, which highly correlated to macrophages challenged with cytokines. Then, a preliminary gene expression signature consisting of 203 upregulated and 24 downregulated genes was identified. Next, protein-protein interaction analysis and hub gene identification were used to identify 11 crucial hub genes, namely tripartite motif-containing 21 (TRIM21), interferon regulatory factor 1 (IRF1), guanylate binding protein 1 (GBP1), transporter associated with antigen processing 1 (TAP1), nuclear myosin I (NMI), interleukin 15 receptor subunit alpha (IL15RA), apolipoprotein L1 (APOL1), intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM-1), protein tyrosine phosphatase non-receptor type 1 (PTPN1), E74-like ETS transcription factor 4 (ELF4) and guanylate binding protein 2 (GBP2). Then, the LINCS L1000 characteristic direction signatures search engine (L1000CDS2) was employed for drug repurposing studies. Dasatinib was predicted to be the leading therapeutic compound to perturb the gene signature of cytokine storm in human macrophages. Connectivity Map results suggested that dasatinib may normalize ICAM-1 expression. In addition, the results of molecular docking studies and molecular dynamics simulation revealed that dasatinib may spontaneously interact with ICAM-1 via several key residues and form a relatively stable protein-ligand complex. Overall, this work, based on an analysis of co-expression correlation networks, gene expression signatures and pivotal genes in human macrophages challenged with cytokines, combined with drug repurposing studies, demonstrated that dasatinib may interact with ICAM-1 and could be a potential candidate for cytokine storm. However, due to the limitations of computational approaches, further experimental validation is necessary.
Pancreatic neuroendocrine neoplasms (PanNENs) represent a rare and heterogeneous group of tumors with diverse biological behaviors and clinical outcomes, posing significant therapeutic challenges. Recent studies have suggested that certain proton pump inhibitors, including Lansoprazole, may possess direct anti-tumor properties beyond their classical role in acid suppression; however, their specific effects and molecular mechanisms in PanNENs remain largely unexplored. This study aims to investigate the anti-proliferative effects and elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms of Lansoprazole in PanNEN models. Our findings demonstrate that Lansoprazole significantly upregulates the expression of DNA Damage Inducible Transcript 3 (DDIT3), a key stress-induced transcription factor. This upregulation leads to the subsequent inhibition of the oncogenic PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling pathway, a central driver of cell growth and proliferation, resulting in marked suppression of PanNEN cell proliferation in vitro. Furthermore, we explored combination therapy strategies and found that Lansoprazole synergizes with everolimus, an established mTOR inhibitor used in PanNEN treatment. This combination enhances overall anti-tumor efficacy, suggesting a promising synergistic therapeutic strategy for PanNENs. These results not only reveal a novel, drug-repurposing approach for targeting PanNENs but also provide a mechanistic rationale for combining Lansoprazole with standard targeted therapies to improve patient outcomes.© 2026 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Type 1 diabetes (T1D) arises from autoimmune-mediated destruction of insulin-producing β cells, driven in part by endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and chronic unfolded protein response (UPR). We previously found that mesencephalic astrocyte-derived neurotrophic factor (MANF), an ER stress-regulating protein with protective and immunomodulatory roles, is essential for mouse and human β cell survival and proliferation. To assess the therapeutic potential of elevated endogenous MANF, we generated β cell-specific transgenic MANF-overexpressing mice and induced diabetes using multiple low-dose streptozotocin (MLDS) injections. In this study, we demonstrate that elevated MANF levels protected against MLDS-induced hyperglycemia, preserved β cell mass, enhanced proliferation, and reduced β cell DNA damage responses and islet lymphocyte infiltration. Transcriptomic profiling of MANF-overexpressing islets revealed downregulation of genes linked to ER and oxidative stress, inflammation, immune responses, antigen presentation, and p53-mediated senescence. Immunophenotyping further showed a reduction in CD4+ T cells in pancreatic lymph nodes. Mechanistically, elevated MANF suppressed MLDS-induced terminal UPR markers, including DNA damage inducible transcript 3 (Ddit3) and thioredoxin-interacting protein (TXNIP) expression, whereas MANF deficiency elevated their expression in β cells. Collectively, these findings identify MANF as a dual-acting therapeutic target that alleviates β cell stress and reduces immunogenicity in T1D.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) represents the most common form of primary liver cancer and is characterized by a significant rate of recurrence. However, there is still a lack of effective therapeutic methods. Accumulating evidence has highlighted the importance of homeobox containing 1 (HMBOX1) in tumorigenesis. However, the relationship between HMBOX1 expression and HCC remains unclear. In the present study, through the analysis of public databases and staining analysis of tissue microarrays, it was found that compared with normal tissues, HMBOX1 was significantly downregulated in tumor tissues. Furthermore, through analyses such as Cell Counting Kit‑8 assay, wound healing assay and colony formation, it was found that overexpression of HMBOX1 could inhibit cell proliferation and migration, while silencing of HMBOX1 promoted tumor biological characteristics in HCC cell lines. The molecular biological mechanism was explored by using proteomics combined with bioinformatics analysis and western blotting. Mechanistically, AKT1 was identified as a downstream effector of HMBOX1, and protein tyrosine phosphatase non‑receptor type 1 (PTPN1) signaling might mediate the regulation of AKT1 by HMBOX1. In vivo tumor‑bearing experiments also verified the function of the HMBOX1/PTPN1/AKT1 pathway in HCC development. Taken together, the present findings revealed a new HMBOX1/PTPN1/AKT1 axis that inhibits tumor progression and provides new candidate therapy targets for HCC.
Lung cancer, a leading cause of death, is challenging to treat due to gemcitabine resistance. Dysregulated autophagy is associated with chemoresistance. Here, we aimed to study the mechanism of how HERC1 modulates autophagy and gemcitabine sensitivity in lung cancer. Paired tumor and adjacent normal tissues were collected from 30 patients with lung cancer. The viability, proliferation, apoptosis, migratory, and invasive capacity of gemcitabine-resistant A549 and H1299 cells (A549/R and H1299/R) were evaluated using Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), EdU staining, flow cytometry, wound healing, and Transwell assays, respectively. The interactions among HECT and RLD domain-containing E3 ubiquitin protein ligase family member 1 (HERC1)-lysine acetyltransferase 2A (KAT2A)-phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase catalytic subunit beta (PIK3CB) were verified by co-immunoprecipitation. A mouse xenograft tumor model was established. Ki-67 expression was determined by immunohistochemistry. Our data showed that HERC1 expression was downregulated in gemcitabine-resistant tumor tissues and A549/R cells, correlating with poor prognosis. Overexpressing HERC1 suppressed proliferation and migration, enhanced apoptosis in A549/R or H1299/R cells, and simultaneously inhibited autophagy. Mechanistically, HERC1 promoted KAT2A ubiquitination and degradation, which enhanced gemcitabine sensitivity by inhibiting autophagy. Further investigation revealed that KAT2A depletion inhibited the lysine acetylation modification of PIK3CB, leading to inactivation of the PI3K/AKT axis. Additionally, HERC1 suppressed autophagy and gemcitabine resistance in A549/R cells by KAT2A-dependent inactivation of the PI3K/AKT axis. Furthermore, HERC1 overexpression enhanced the inhibition of gemcitabine on tumor growth by suppressing autophagy in vivo. In conclusion, HERC1 inhibited autophagy by inactivating PIK3CB-mediated PI3K/AKT signaling via promoting KAT2A degradation, thereby enhancing the gemcitabine sensitivity in lung cancer.
Following the publication of the above article, the authors have contacted the Editorial Office to explain that they inadvertently assembled Fig. 5D on p. 9, showing Oil Red O staining of Hepa1‑6 cells following transfection with a plasmid, incorrectly. Specifically, the same data had been included to show the results of the 'FFA‑AK‑1' experiment (top row, panel on the right) and the 'FFA‑AK‑10' experiment (bottom row, panel in the middle). Upon investigating this figure, the authors realized that the data shown correctly for the 'FFA‑AK‑10' experiment had been duplicated to show the results for the 'FFA‑AK‑1' experiment. A revised version of Fig. 5, now showing the correct data panel for the 'FFA‑AK‑1' experiment in Fig. 5D, is shown on the next page. The authors confirm that the error associated with this figure did not have any significant impact on either the results or the conclusions reported in this study, and all the authors agree with the publication of this Corrigendum. The authors are grateful to the Editor of International Journal of Molecular Medicine for allowing them the opportunity to publish this Corrigendum; furthermore, they apologize to the readership of the Journal for any inconvenience caused. [International Journal of Molecular Medicine 57: 102, 2026; DOI: 10.3892/ijmm.2026.5773].
Cardiac microvascular endothelial cell (CMEC) injury is a primary driver of microvascular obstruction and the no-reflow phenomenon during myocardial ischemia/reperfusion (I/R). While Programmed Cell Death 4 (PDCD4) is known to exacerbate cardiovascular diseases, its precise role and regulatory mechanisms in CMEC barrier dysfunction and inflammatory adhesion during I/R remain unclear. In this study, we demonstrate that PDCD4 deletion significantly mitigates I/R-induced cardiac dysfunction, reduces infarct size, and preserves microvascular ultrastructure in mice. In vitro experiments using a hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R) model revealed that PDCD4 knockdown preserves CMEC viability, suppresses apoptosis, and maintains endothelial barrier integrity by restoring tight junction proteins (ZO-1, Claudin-1, and Occludin). Furthermore, PDCD4 inhibition significantly reduced pathological permeability and attenuated the adhesion of neutrophils and macrophages by downregulating ICAM-1. Mechanistically, PDCD4 directly interacts with Peroxisome Proliferator-Activated Receptor alpha (PPARα) at the protein level and restricts its protective antioxidant function. Co-immunoprecipitation and immunofluorescence supported this interaction. Silencing PDCD4 restored PPARα-dependent antioxidant responses, leading to a marked reduction in oxidative stress (decreased ROS and MDA, increased SOD). Crucially, double-knockdown rescue experiments confirmed that the protective effects of PDCD4 depletion against H/R-induced apoptosis, barrier disruption, and inflammatory adhesion were largely abolished upon concurrent PPARα silencing. These findings establish that PDCD4 exacerbates I/R-induced CMEC injury by binding to and inhibiting PPARα-mediated antioxidant homeostasis. Targeting the PDCD4-PPARα interaction axis presents a promising therapeutic strategy to prevent microvascular dysfunction and improve outcomes following acute myocardial infarction.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common progressive and irreversible neurodegenerative disorder in humans that affects memory, thinking and behavior. Impairment in synaptic plasticity is one of the hallmarks in AD, with most of the impairment occurring in the hippocampal region, a key part of the brain for memory and learning. Therefore, the upregulation of hippocampal plasticity is critical to remediate the progression of AD and preserve memory formation and cognitive functions. Recent studies have described β-hydroxy-β-methylbutyrate (HMB), a body building supplement commonly used by athletes, as a candidate molecule for improving hippocampal plasticity. Clinically, AD is characterized by the abnormal accumulation of beta amyloid (Aβ) plaques, coupled with intracellular aggregates of hyperphosphorylated tau protein. In addition to enhancing hippocampal plasticity, HMB has been also demonstrated to lower amyloid plaques in a mouse model of AD. Although liver is rich in peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARα), recent findings have established the presence of PPARα in hippocampus and other parts of the brain. Interestingly, HMB has been shown to utilize PPARα for lowering plaques and increasing hippocampal plasticity. Here, we discuss these newly described features of HMB with possible implications for the use of HMB supplement in patients with dementia and AD.
Excessive lipid accumulation impairs digestion and gastrointestinal function. Transmembrane protein 135 (TMEM135) is involved in lipid metabolism of various tissues. Here, TMEM135 deficiency increased intestinal lipid absorption through ELOVL6-dependent oleoylethanolamide production and subsequent activation of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARα), which upregulated CD36 at the plasma membrane in the intestine of mice fed a high-fat diet or lard oil. Despite this enhanced lipid uptake, long-term lipid accumulation was suppressed by elevated peroxisomal and mitochondrial β-oxidation through increased fatty acid oxidation and oxidative phosphorylation activities without chylomicron secretion in TMEM135-depleted intestine. Inhibition of PPARα or ELOVL6 attenuated these effects. Furthermore, consistent results were observed in both TMEM135 KO and intestine-specific TMEM135iKO mice, confirming tissue-specific rather than systemic effects. Overall, these results provide insight into the role of TMEM135 as a regulatory node connecting intestinal lipid absorption and systemic energy expenditure, contributing to the coordination between lipid storage and oxidation during metabolic adaptation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Triphenyl phosphate (TPhP) is a commonly used organophosphorus flame retardant, and its potential health risks to mothers and infants are considerable. Our previous research revealed that gestational TPhP exposure significantly reduces the depth of placental implantation and impairs uterine spiral arteries remodelling, leading to preeclampsia (PE)-like symptoms, but the underlying mechanism remains unclear. In this study, we further demonstrate that TPhP activated the transcription of Phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) by activating peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma (PPARγ). This activation subsequently inhibits the PI3K-AKT-mTOR signaling pathway, modulates autophagy homeostasis, and inhibits the migration and invasion of extravillous trophoblast (EVT) cells. Notably, knockdown of PTEN or PPARγ with shRNA, or inhibition of autophagy with chloroquine (CQ) alleviates the TPhP-induced inhibition of EVT cells migration or invasion. Furthermore, using an established murine intrauterine exposure model, we confirmed that TPhP activates PPARγ, increases PTEN expression in placental trophoblast, inhibits the PI3K-AKT-mTOR signaling pathway and disturbs autophagy homeostasis. Collectively, these findings elucidate that TPhP inhibits EVT cells migration and invasion via the PPARγ-PTEN-PI3K-AKT-mTOR mediated autophagy pathway, providing a new toxicity pathway in placental toxicology. Additionally, this study provides new insights into the etiological research of PE.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Synthetic oxytocin (Pitocin) is the most commonly used pharmacologic agent for induction and augmentation of labor. Beyond its uterotonic effects, oxytocin plays a critical role in neurodevelopment and social behavior. Dysregulated oxytocin signaling has been implicated in autism spectrum disorder (ASD), raising concern that perinatal exposure to exogenous oxytocin may have lasting neurodevelopmental consequences. This study aimed to determine whether offspring harboring a genetic predisposition for ASD are differentially impacted by perinatal oxytocin exposures, with a focus on long-term oxytocin signaling and autism-like behavior. Pregnant mice carrying offspring with heterozygous mutations in phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome ten (Pten), a well-established monogenic risk factor for ASD, received continuous oxytocin versus phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) control via micro-osmotic pumps during late gestation. Wild-type (WT) offspring exposed to each treatment served as a secondary control. Adult offspring were assessed for oxytocin receptor (Oxtr) methylation in the frontal cortex and hippocampus, oxytocin expression in the hypothalamus, serum oxytocin levels, and were subject to a battery of social and anxiety-related behavior tests. Perinatal oxytocin exposure produced genotype-dependent effects in offspring. Epigenetic analyses revealed bidirectional remodeling of Oxtr methylation in the frontal cortex and hippocampus, with increased exon 1 methylation in WT mice and decreased methylation in Pten-mutant mice, resulting in significant genotype-treatment interactions. Hypothalamic oxytocin expression increased following treatment regardless of genotype, though baseline levels were higher in Pten-mutant mice. Neither oxytocin treatment nor genotype impacted long-term serum oxytocin levels. Behavioral outcomes were modest but context-specific: repetitive behaviors and cognition performance were unchanged, but oxytocin-treated Pten-mutant mice exhibited increased anxiety-like behavior alongside improved social memory. In contrast, oxytocin-treated WT mice showed reduced social novelty preference. Exploratory analyses suggested potential sex-dependent trends. Our findings support a model in which genetic susceptibility shapes the epigenetic encoding of early-life hormonal signals, thereby recalibrating oxytocin system function and downstream behavioral outcomes. Together, these data highlight the context-dependent effects of perinatal oxytocin exposure and argue against uniformly beneficial or detrimental effects, emphasizing the importance of gene-environment interactions in neurodevelopmental trajectories.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Cholestatic liver disease (CLD) comprises a collection of disorders marked by impaired bile formation or flow, which can progress to fibrosis, cirrhosis, and liver failure if left untreated. Although there have been significant advances in understanding its pathogenesis, effective pharmacotherapies are still limited; ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA), the first-line treatment, exhibits an incomplete response in approximately 30-40% of patients. Obacunone (OBA), a naturally occurring limonoid triterpenoid, has shown potent anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects in various models of liver injury; however, its role in CLD has yet to be investigated.To investigate the mechanism by which OBA ameliorates α-naphthyl isothiocyanate (ANIT)/ethinyl estradiol (EE) -induced CLD through the regulation of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor α (PPARα).Cholestatic liver injury was induced in mice via ANIT/EE treatment. UDCA served as a positive control, while OBA was administered at 1.5, 3, and 6 mg/kg as low, medium, and high dose intervention groups, respectively. Serum and liver tissues were collected to evaluate liver function, cholestasis-related markers, and hepatic histology using assay kits, quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR), and Western blotting. Bile acid profiles were quantified by ultra performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (UPLC-MS/MS), and transcriptomic sequencing identified PPARα as a key target involved in bile acid metabolism. A PPARα inhibitor (GW6471) was used to verify the regulatory role of OBA via PPARα. Additionally, 16S rRNA high-throughput sequencing was performed to explore the effects of OBA on gut microbiota within the gut-liver axis.ANIT/EE induced severe cholestatic liver injury in mice, characterized by elevated Aspartate aminotransferase (AST), Alanine aminotransferase (ALT), Alkaline phosphatase (AKP), total bile acid (TBA), total bilirubin (TBIL), total cholesterol (TC) and triglyceride(TG) levels, decreased aenosine tiphosphate (ATP) and ketone body (KB) levels, obvious liver pathological damage, enhanced inflammation, disordered fatty acid oxidation, abnormal bile acid synthesis, reduced beneficial bacteria (Akkermansia, Dubosiella, Lactobacillus) and increased harmful bacteria (Helicobacter, Escherichia-Shigella). High-dose OBA markedly ameliorated these abnormalities, inhibited hepatic inflammatory cytokines (tumor necrosis factor-alpha (Tnf-α), Interleukin 6 (Il6), Interleukin-1 beta (Il-1β)), regulated bile acid synthesis, absorption and efflux, and restored gut microbiota balance. In contrast, PPARα inhibition significantly attenuated the protective effects of OBA against cholestasis.This study demonstrates that OBA activates PPARα, thereby regulating bile acid metabolism, fatty acid oxidation, inflammatory responses, and gut microbiota to alleviate CLD, providing a theoretical basis for targeted therapy targeting the PPARα-bile acid-microbiota axis in CLD.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42550413 is a review article
Phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) is a key tumor suppressor gene that negatively regulates the PI3K/AKT pathway. PTEN deficiency is the most frequent molecular alteration in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC); however, the relationship between PTEN protein loss and underlying genomic alterations remains incompletely understood.Fifty TNBC cases were evaluated for PTEN protein expression by immunohistochemistry on tissue microarrays. PTEN hotspot mutations (Exons 1, 5, 7, and 9) were analyzed using Sanger sequencing, whereas copy number alterations were assessed by multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA) assay. PTEN alterations were correlated with clinicopathological characteristics. External validation of PTEN mRNA and protein expression and prognostic significance was performed using publicly available TCGA/CPTAC datasets and Kaplan-Meier plotter.PTEN protein loss was observed in 41/50 TNBC cases (82%), indicating that PTEN deficiency is a frequent event in this subtype. PTEN mutations were detected in six cases (12%) and were confined exclusively to Exon 5, comprising one missense mutation (c.277C>A) and two truncating mutations (c.430del and c.433del). MLPA identified PTEN copy number alterations in four cases (8%), including heterozygous deletions and duplications. No significant association was observed between PTEN protein expression and genomic alterations, highlighting a substantial genotype-phenotype discordance. Analysis of independent public datasets confirmed significantly reduced PTEN mRNA and protein expression in TNBC compared with luminal and HER2-positive breast cancers. Patients with low PTEN expression showed a trend toward shorter overall survival (23.5 vs. 38.9 months), though the difference did not reach statistical significance.PTEN protein loss is highly prevalent in TNBC but is only partially explained by mutations and copy number alterations, suggesting that additional regulatory mechanisms, such as epigenetic or posttranscriptional events, contribute to PTEN inactivation. These findings underscore the biological importance of PTEN deficiency in TNBC and support further investigation of PTEN as a potential prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026 Sandeep Kumar et al. International Journal of Breast Cancer published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
This study aims to systematically compare the differences in the effects of Eucommiae Cortex(EC) and salt-stir fried Eucommiae Cortex(SEC) on improving adenine-induced renal fibrosis in rats and explore the molecular mechanism by which SEC enhances the therapeutic effect on renal fibrosis based on epithelial-mesenchymal transition(EMT). Rats were randomly divided into a blank control group, model group, positive drug group, and groups with low, medium, and high-dose EC and SEC. Western blot and immunofluorescence techniques were utilized to detect the expression of fibrosis marker proteins such as α-smooth actin(α-SMA), collagen Ⅰ, fibronectin, and vimentin in renal tissue. Real-time fluorescent quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction(PCR) was used to detect the transcriptional expression levels of key EMT transcription factors snail family transcriptional repressor 1(Snai1), twist family BHLH transcription factor 1(Twist1), zinc finger E-box binding homeobox 1(ZEB1), inflammatory factors tumor necrosis factor-α(TNF-α), interleukin-1β(IL-1β), and interleukin-6(IL-6) in renal tissue. In in vitro experiments, a fibrosis model was established by using transforming growth factor-β(TGF-β) to stimulate renal tubular epithelial NRK-52E cells, thereby evaluating the inhibitory effects of EC and SEC on the protein expression of fibrosis markers and the EMT process. The underlying molecular mechanism was further explored by combining network pharmacology and western blot. Both EC and SEC significantly reduced the protein expression levels of fibrosis markers including fibronectin, collagen Ⅰ, vimentin, and α-SMA and obviously inhibited the transcriptional expression of key EMT transcription factors including Snai1, Twist1, and ZEB1 and inflammatory factors including TNF-α, IL-1β, and IL-6 in rats with adenine-induced renal fibrosis and in NRK-52E cells stimulated by TGF-β. The inhibitory effects of SEC were stronger than those of EC. Network pharmacology analysis revealed that the chemical components of SEC with significant change exerted the effect by focusing on the mitogen-activated protein kinase(MAPK) signaling pathway. Further experiments confirmed that both of EC and SEC significantly inhibited phosphorylation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase(p38) induced by adenine and TGF-β and elevated expression of its upstream apoptosis signal-regulating kinase 1(ASK1), with SEC exhibiting a more pronounced inhibitory effect. Furthermore, the ASK1 inhibitor Selonsertib significantly downregulated levels of EMT and p38 phosphorylation in NRK-52E cells stimulated by TGF-β. Therefore, SEC can enhance the therapeutic effect on renal fibrosis by inhibiting the EMT process, and its specific mechanism is related to the inhibition of the ASK1/p38 signaling pathway.
X-rays are a form of ionizing radiation that has sufficient energy to remove electrons from atoms, thereby creating potentially harmful ions. X-ray irradiation during organogenesis can have profound detrimental effects, depending on the developmental stage and irradiating energy. In this study, we examined the impact of X-ray irradiation on zebrafish development at 36 h post-fertilization and observed marked jaw malformation, which was alleviated by folic acid pretreatment. Mechanistic studies revealed that folic acid pretreatment suppressed irradiation-induced production of reactive oxygen species. Transcriptome analysis performed at 24 and 48 h post-irradiation revealed dysregulated expression of apolipoprotein A-IV a (apoa4a), methionine adenosyltransferase 1A (mat1a), heat shock protein 90 alpha class A member 1 tandem duplicate 1 (hsp90aa1.1), FKBP prolyl isomerase 5 (fkbp5), plac8 onzin related protein 3 (ponzr3), and prostaglandin E synthase 3a (ptges3a), which was not observed in zebrafish treated with folic acid before the irradiation. These findings suggest that folic acid alleviates X-ray irradiation-induced jaw malformation in zebrafish, at least in part, by reducing oxidative stress and ameliorating dysregulated gene expression.© 2026 The Author(s). Congenital Anomalies published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Teratology Society.
Idiopathic nephrotic syndrome (iNS) is clinically classified by treatment response; however, the molecular basis of multidrug resistance remains poorly defined. We hypothesized that multidrug-resistant disease represents a distinct biological state rather than a more severe form of active disease.Serum proteomic profiling using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) was performed in 165 pediatric and young adult patients with iNS, stratified as steroid-dependent nephrotic syndrome (SDNS), multidrug-dependent nephrotic syndrome (MDNS), or multidrug-resistant nephrotic syndrome (MRNS), and compared with healthy donors. Differential expression, pathway enrichment, and multivariate modeling were used to identify discriminative proteins. Selected biomarkers were validated using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and independently replicated in a separate validation cohort. Functional effects of patient-derived sera were assessed in cultured human podocytes and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs).Of 810 quantified proteins, 322 differed significantly across clinical groups. A 35-protein signature discriminated MRNS from MDNS and SDNS phenotypes. Integrated analyses identified dystroglycan 1 (DAG1), CD44 antigen (CD44), and RISC-loading complex subunit (TARBP2) as principal contributors to phenotype separation. ELISA confirmed increased DAG1 in MRNS, preserved TARBP2 in remission, and increased CD44 in active disease. Sera from patients with MRNS induced coordinated alterations in cytoskeletal organization, proteostasis, autophagy, and survival signaling in podocytes. An inverse distribution of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) chaperone BIP (GRP78) and phosphorylated AKT (pAKT) was observed in both serum-treated podocytes and patient PBMCs.MRNS is associated with a distinct proteomic and functional profile characterized by coordinated stress-response dysregulation, supporting biologically informed disease stratification.© 2026 The Author(s).
The genetic basis of impaired intestinal barrier function in preterm infants is poorly understood. Variants in single immunoglobulin interleukin1-related receptor, a negative regulator of Toll-like receptor signaling, have been identified in preterm infants with necrotizing enterocolitis. We hypothesized that single immunoglobulin interleukin1-related receptor variants associated with necrotizing enterocolitis impair gut barrier function to pathobionts. The aim of this study was to determine how single immunoglobulin interleukin1-related receptor genetic variants disrupt neonatal intestinal barrier integrity and promote susceptibility to Gram-negative bacteria implicated in sepsis and necrotizing enterocolitis pathogenesis.Transgenic mice and preterm infant-derived enteroids expressing SIGIRR variants identified in necrotizing enterocolitis were used to define how single immunoglobulin interleukin1-related receptor regulates epithelial junctional protein assembly. An Escherichia coli strain identified in neonatal sepsis was used for functional evaluation of gut barrier function.Neonatal mice harboring the SIGIRR p.Y168X mutation (Sigirrmu/mu), exhibited loss of epithelial junctional proteins, impaired barrier function, and activation of Twist family BHLH transcription factor 1 with exaggerated Toll-like receptor signaling. Sigirrmu/mu mice were highly susceptible to bacteremia when enterally challenged with pathogenic E coli. Pharmacologic inhibition of Twist family BHLH transcription factor 1 or genetic deletion of Toll-like receptor 4 restored barrier integrity. Preterm human enteroids expressing the SIGIRR p.Y168X and p.P115R variants recapitulated barrier defects and Twist family BHLH transcription factor 1 activation in a bacteria-free environment. Twist family BHLH transcription factor 1 inhibition reversed these defects in both human and murine enteroids.SIGIRR preserves neonatal intestinal epithelial barrier integrity by repressing TWIST1-mediated disruption of junctional proteins. Loss of SIGIRR function compromises epithelial barrier and promotes bacterial translocation, revealing a genetic mechanism underlying gut barrier dysfunction in necrotizing enterocolitis and neonatal sepsis.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Renal lipid metabolic dysregulation drives tubular injury and fibrosis in chronic kidney disease (CKD), yet endogenous targets governing tubular lipid homeostasis remain incompletely understood. This study aimed to elucidate how calycosin (CAL), an O-methylated isoflavone from Astragali Radix, corrects renal lipid metabolic dysregulation and attenuates fibrosis in CKD.An adenine-induced CKD mouse model and TGF-β1-stimulated HK-2 cells were treated with CAL. Lipidomics and network pharmacology screened candidate targets. Surface plasmon resonance (SPR) and molecular dynamics simulations validated target binding. Adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated renal phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase 1 (PCK1) overexpression in vivo and lentiviral overexpression in vitro established the regulatory relationship. The PCK1 inhibitor 3-mercaptopicolinic acid served as reverse validation.CAL improved renal function, alleviated fibrosis, and reduced lipid deposition both in vivo and in vitro. Lipidomics revealed that CAL bidirectionally modulated renal lipid metabolism by suppressing glycerophospholipid, sphingolipid, and glycerolipid accumulation while restoring omega-3 PUFA-enriched lipids and decreasing lipid saturation. SPR confirmed direct binding of CAL to PCK1. Gain-of-function experiments demonstrated that PCK1 negatively regulates Twist family BHLH transcription factor 1 (TWIST1) in the kidney. Accordingly, CAL activated the PCK1/TWIST1/carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1 A (CPT1α) axis, restoring fatty acid oxidation and suppressing lipid uptake, thereby attenuating lipotoxicity-driven oxidative stress and tubular apoptosis.This study identifies PCK1 as an endogenous binding target of CAL in the kidney and delineates the PCK1/TWIST1/CPT1α axis as the downstream signaling circuitry through which CAL corrects tubular lipid metabolic disorders and attenuates renal fibrosis, providing mechanistic rationale for targeted CKD therapy.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42023464 is a review article
BACKGROUND: Oxidative stress arises from disrupted equilibrium between reactive oxygen species generation and cellular antioxidant capacity, serving as a pivotal mechanism in inflammatory pathology, particularly osteoarthritis development. The progression of osteoarthritis-related pain may additionally involve oxidative stress through its activation of nociceptive signaling pathways, but the mechanism of its influence on the progression of osteoarthritis is not yet unanimous. METHODS: The study utilized publicly available sequencing data, which included specimens from patients with osteoarthritis and matched healthy controls, retrieved from GEO database, and combined them after removing batch effects. A multi-step analytical approach was employed to identify pivotal diagnostic biomarkers for osteoarthritis. This strategy encompassed examining differential gene expression, constructing protein-protein interaction networks, applying machine learning algorithms, and assessing co-expression patterns. Subsequently, a diagnostic framework incorporating a nomogram was developed based on these candidate genes. To discern distinct patient subgroups, cluster analysis was conducted. Further investigations into the underlying biology revealed divergent functional pathways and immune cell infiltration landscapes across the identified subtypes, highlighting the putative roles of the key biomarkers. We investigated the effects of FKBP5 on osteoarthritis through both in vivo and in vitro experiments, examining chondrocyte proliferation capacity, apoptosis, cellular senescence, mitochondrial function, and cartilage degeneration. RESULT: We successfully screened the key genes PPARGC1A, FKBP5, and MMP13 for the diagnosis of osteoarthritis, constructed a diagnostic model and a nomogram of osteoarthritis, and verified their excellent diagnostic ability. Based on these core genes we classified osteoarthritis into two subtypes. Enrichment analysis and immune infiltration analysis confirmed that FKBP5 regulates the immune microenvironment in osteoarthritis and influences the progression of osteoarthritis. Both in vivo and in vitro experiments confirmed that FKBP5 overexpression enhances chondrocyte viability, proliferative capacity, and mitochondrial function under inflammatory conditions, while reducing cellular senescence, apoptosis, and cartilage degeneration. FKBP5 may serve as a potential therapeutic target for osteoarthritis intervention. CONCLUSION: Our study identified distinct molecular subtypes of osteoarthritis by analyzing genes associated with oxidative stress. Furthermore, we found that FKBP5 exerts a positive regulatory effect on chondrocyte function and mitigates cartilage degeneration in the osteoarthritis environment. This provides new insights for personalized treatment of osteoarthritis.
Non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is one of the most frequently occurring and aggressive cancers globally, but its complex molecular mechanisms remain only partially understood. This study investigated the effects of Wilms tumor 1-associated protein (WTAP) on NSCLC cell ferroptosis and immune escape through N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification of twist family BHLH transcription factor 1 (Twist1).Western blot and reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction were used to assess Twist1 expression in NSCLC cell lines and its circular structure. Small interfering RNAs targeting Twist1 and WTAP were transfected into H2170 cells, and their effects on cell viability, apoptosis, ferroptosis markers (reactive oxygen species [ROS], malondialdehyde [MDA], and Fe2+), and immune escape were evaluated using cell counting kit-8, flow cytometry, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP Nick-End labeling, ROS staining, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Co-culture with CD8+ T cells was employed to assess cytotoxicity and exhaustion marker expression (Lymphocyte activation gene-3, Programmed cell death protein 1, and T-cell immunoreceptor with Ig and ITIM domains). Magna methylated RNA immunoprecipitation, photo-activatable ribonucleoside-enhanced cross-linking and immunoprecipitation, and treatment with the methylation inhibitor 3-Deazaneplanocin A (3-DAA) confirmed the m6A modification of Twist1 and WTAP's regulatory role.Twist1 was dramatically elevated in the NSCLC cell lines (P < 0.05). Knockdown of Twist1 inhibited NSCLC cell viability; promoted apoptosis; increased ROS, MDA, and Fe2+ levels; enhanced the cytotoxicity of CD8+ T cells; and reduced the expression of exhaustion markers (P < 0.05). These effects were partially reversed by the ferroptosis inhibitor Fer-1. WTAP expression increased in the NSCLC cells, and its knockdown markedly reduced the m6A modification and expression of Twist1 (P < 0.05). Furthermore, overexpression of Twist1 partially reversed the inhibitory effects of WTAP knockdown on NSCLC cell proliferation, ferroptosis, and immune escape (P < 0.05).Twist1 is highly expressed in NSCLC. It promotes NSCLC progression by enhancing ferroptosis and immune escape. WTAP-mediated m6A methylation plays a critical role in regulating Twist1 expression. The WTAP/Twist1 axis may serve as a potential therapeutic target for NSCLC.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by Scientific Scholar.
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is a major cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide. One protein involved in RNA processing and splicing, SNRPA1, has been suggested to play a role in the pathogenesis of NSCLC. Therefore, investigating the regulatory mechanisms involving small nuclear ribonucleoprotein polypeptide A' (SNRPA1) in NSCLC could provide valuable insights into the disease progression. The study involved the analysis of SNRPA1, methyltransferase 3, n6-adenosine-methyltransferase complex catalytic subunit (METTL3), insulin like growth factor 2 mRNA binding protein 2 (IGF2BP2) and twist family bHLH transcription factor 1 (TWIST1) expressions in lung tissues and normal lung tissues using data obtained from the TCGA, CPTAC, and/or ENCORI databases. The prognostic value of SNRPA1 in lung tissues was assessed through the Kaplan-Meier Plotter database and TCGA database. mRNA expression was quantified via qRT-PCR, while protein expression was evaluated using western blotting assay or IHC assay. Cell viability, proliferation, migration, and invasion were analyzed through various in vitro assays. The interaction between SNRPA1 and METTL3 or IGF2BP2 was studied using RIP assay, dual-luciferase reporter assay, and actinomycin D assay, while the association of SNRPA1 with TWIST was determined through Co-IP assay and CHX assay. The effects of METTL3 silencing and SNRPA1 overexpression on malignant growth of NSCLC cells were confirmed using a xenograft mouse model assay and a lung metastasis model. SNRPA1 expression was significantly upregulated in NSCLC tissues and cells. Depletion of SNRPA1 led to the inhibition of NSCLC cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. Additionally, METTL3 and IGF2BP2 were found to stabilize SNRPA1 mRNA expression through m6A methylation modification. SNRPA1 overexpression attenuated the effects induced by METTL3 knockdown on NSCLC cells in vitro. Furthermore, SNRPA1 was observed to interact with TWIST1 in NSCLC cells, and TWIST1 overexpression attenuated SNRPA1 knockdown-induced effects on the key malignant phenotypes. In vivo experiments showed that SNRPA1 overexpression rescued the effects of METTL3 depletion on the malignant growth of NSCLC cells. The findings of this study highlight the crucial role of the METTL3/IGF2BP2-SNRPA1-TWIST1 axis in promoting NSCLC development through m6A methylation modification. Targeting this pathway may offer novel therapeutic strategies for the treatment of NSCLC.The METTL3/IGF2BP2-mediated m6A methylation modification of SNRPA1 binds to TWIST1 to promote NSCLC cell proliferation, migration, and invasion, ultimately leading to NSCLC progression.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s10616-026-00924-w.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Oxaliplatin (OXA) is commonly used in combination therapy for patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma. While the emergence of acquired resistance dramatically reduces its efficacy. It was previously found that the sensitivity of drug-resistant hepatocellular carcinoma cells to OXA could be enhanced by a synthesized ethyl derivative (patented) of epigallocatechin-3-gallate, and also initially found that the reversal mechanism might be related to the miR-338-3p/HIF-1α/ TWIST pathway. In this study, the function of the miR-338- 3p/HIF-1α / TWIST pathway was investigated in OXA-resistant hepatocellular carcinoma cells, particularly its involvement in reversing chemoresistance mediated by EMT.The cell viability, migration, invasion, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition markers of SMMC-7721 and SMMC-7721/OXA cells were measured using the MTT assay, wound healing assay, transwell assay, western blot, and qRT-PCR. The effects of miR-338-3p overexpression were evaluated by transfecting cells with miR-338-3p mimic or negative control mimic.The SMMC-7721/OXA cells exhibited an epithelial-mesenchymal transition phenotype, characterized by increased migration and invasion, reduced E-cadherin, and elevated vimentin expression. The miR-338-3p expression was dramatically downregulated in SMMC-7721/OXA cells. Overexpression of miR-338-3p enhanced OXA sensitivity, with the IC50 value of OXA decreasing from 51.23 μM to 19.26 μM, reversed the epithelialmesenchymal transition phenotype, and reduced the expression of hypoxia-inducible factor-1α and twist family bHLH transcription factor 1, key regulators of epithelial-mesenchymal transition. The results indicated that the miR-338-3p regulates epithelial-mesenchymal transition and chemoresistance in OXA-resistant hepatocellular carcinoma cells by targeting hypoxiainducible factor-1α and subsequently down-regulating twist family bHLH transcription factor 1.This study implies that the resistance of SMMC-7721/OXA cells to OXA is likely related to the acquisition of the EMT phenotype. The up-regulating miR-338-3p could be a new treatment method for over-coming OXA resistance in hepatocellular carcinoma.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
To investigate the role of secreted frizzled-related protein 5 (Sfrp5) in ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) and its protective mechanisms in macrophage-driven plaque instability.Serum Sfrp5 levels were measured in 89 STEMI and 65 stable angina pectoris (SAP) patients. Foam macrophage models were established using murine RAW264.7 and human THP-1-derived macrophages. Sfrp5 effects on foam cell formation, apoptosis, and M1/M2 polarization were assessed, along with p38-MAPK/JNK/NF-κB signaling modulation using specific activators/inhibitors and RNA sequencing.STEMI patients showed significantly lower serum Sfrp5 levels (P < 0.0001), negatively correlated with peak troponin T (P = 0.013). Sfrp5 suppressed foam cell formation, apoptosis, and M1 polarization while promoting M2 polarization in vitro. Inhibition of M2 polarization attenuated these effects. Mechanistically, Sfrp5 exerted protection by suppressing the p38-MAPK/JNK/NF-κB signaling axis, confirmed by RNA sequencing showing altered expression of genes involved in lipid metabolism, inflammation, and apoptosis.Sfrp5 enhances atherosclerotic plaque stability by inhibiting macrophage foam cell formation and apoptosis via suppression of p38-MAPK/JNK/NF-κB signaling and modulation of macrophage polarization, representing a potential therapeutic target for STEMI.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) is a reversible pre-diabetic condition characterized by early disruptions in insulin resistance and glucose control. Wingless-type MMTV integration site family member 5a/ secreted frizzled-related protein 5 (Wnt5a/Sfrp5) signaling and GLP-1 modulation have been identified as possible treatment approaches.The effects of low-intensity aerobic activity, Huatuo Five-animal Play exercise and bifidobacterium triple viable capsules on glucose-lipid metabolism and GLP-1/Wnt5a/Sfrp5 signaling were assessed in this randomized, parallel-group clinical trial involving ninety persons with IGT.The designated intervention was given to participants for four weeks. Before and during therapy, measurements were taken of fasting blood glucose (FBG), 2 h post-load glucose (2hFBG), glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c), fasting insulin, homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR), serum lipids and circulating GLP-1, Wnt5a and Sfrp5.All treatments improved lipid indices, characterized by reductions in total cholesterol (TC), triglycerides (TG), and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), along with an increase in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) and significantly lowered FBG, 2hFBG, HbA1c, fasting insulin and HOMA-IR (P<0.05). Compared with aerobic exercise, Five-animal Play generated higher decreases in FBG, 2hFBG and HOMA-IR and a more significant decline in Wnt5a (P<0.05). Outcomes in the Five-animal Play group were comparable to the probiotic group. There were no negative responses or toxicities to the kidneys or liver.Huatuo Five-animal Play may offer a safe, mechanism-based non-pharmacological approach for early metabolic intervention in pre-diabetes.
To investigate the expression profiles of Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway-related biomarkers in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) and to evaluate their predictive value for major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE).A total of 200 STEMI patients admitted to the emergency department between August 2021 and August 2024 were enrolled. Peripheral venous blood samples were collected immediately before emergency percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) and serum levels of Wnt1, β-catenin, Wnt5a, secreted frizzled-related protein 5 (SFRP5), and Dickkopf-related protein 1 (DKK1) were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Based on the occurrence of MACE during hospitalization and within 1-year follow-up, patients were categorized into the MACE group (n = 29) and non-MACE group (n = 171). Kaplan-Meier survival analysis was used to assess differences in prognosis among patients with different biomarker levels. Univariate and multivariate Cox proportional hazards regression analyses were performed to identify independent risk factors for MACE.Serum levels of Wnt1, β-catenin, Wnt5a, and DKK1 were elevated, whereas SFRP5 was markedly reduced in the MACE group. Patients with high serum levels of Wnt1, β-catenin, Wnt5a, or DKK1 had significantly higher MACE incidence rates, while those with high SFRP5 levels had a lower incidence. β-catenin, DKK1, and cardiac troponin I (cTnI) were identified as independent risk factors for MACE in STEMI patients. The combined prediction model of β-catenin and DKK1 (AUC = 0.946; 95% CI = 0.910-0.981) showed superior predictive performance compared with single biomarkers.The combined detection of β-catenin and DKK1 may serve as a potential biomarker for risk stratification in STEMI patients.© 2026 Wang, Tao and Yang.
Quercetin (QUR) has been shown to ameliorate knee osteoarthritis (KOA), but its precise mechanism remains unclear. This study aimed to determine whether QUR regulates KOA by modulating E2F Transcription Factor 2 (E2F2) and elucidate the underlying mechanism. A rat anterior cruciate ligament model was established to simulate KOA. Molecular expression levels were evaluated using Reverse Transcription Quantitative Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction, Western blot, and immunohistochemistry. Cell viability and apoptosis were assessed using cell counting kit-8 assay and flow cytometry, respectively. E2F2 binding to secreted frizzled-related protein 5 (SFRP5) promoter was confirmed through chromatin immunoprecipitation and dual-luciferase reporter assays. Cartilage pathological damage was evaluated using hematoxylin and eosin and safranine-O/fast-green staining. QUR attenuated Interleukin-1beta-induced chondrocyte inflammation, extracellular matrix (ECM) degradation, and cartilage injury by downregulating E2F2 and inactivating the Wnt5a/Dishevelled 2 (Dvl2)/Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) pathway. E2F2 bound the SFRP5 promoter and inhibited its transcription, whereas SFRP5 overexpression counteracted E2F2-mediated activation of the Wnt5a/Dvl2/JNK pathway. QUR suppresses chondrocyte inflammation and ECM degradation in KOA by downregulating E2F2 and modulating the SFRP5/Wnt5a/Dvl2/JNK pathway. These findings highlight the E2F2/SFRP5/Wnt5a axis as a promising therapeutic target for KOA and support the further development of quercetin as a potential treatment strategy.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains a lethal malignancy with limited therapeutic options. While ubiquitin-specific peptidase 49 (USP49) has been implicated in various cancers, its role in HCC is unclear. Here, we found that USP49 is upregulated in HCC tissues and associated with poor prognosis. Functional assays demonstrated that USP49 promotes HCC proliferation and migration both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, USP49 directly interacts with and deubiquitinates RACK1, thereby stabilizing it. This stabilization leads to RACK1-driven transcriptional activation of key fatty acid metabolic enzymes, enhancing triglyceride synthesis and fueling tumor growth through metabolic reprogramming. Collectively, our study identifies the USP49/RACK1 axis as a critical driver of HCC progression and nominates USP49 as a promising therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Type 2 diabetes (T2D) and obesity (OB) are associated with chronic inflammation and increased fracture risk. We aimed to study the impact of inflammation and Wnt pathway regulation on bone health in subjects with T2D or OB.This study involved 63 postmenopausal women (aged ≥65 years) undergoing hip arthroplasty, including 19 with T2D, 17 with OB, and 27 controls (CTRL). We assessed body composition using dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA), bone microarchitecture with microcomputed tomography (μCT), and bone strength through compression tests. Bone tissue was collected for gene and protein expression analysis, and serum samples were obtained for cytokine measurement.Bone gene expression analysis revealed increased tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α; p < 0.0001) and reduced adiponectin (ADIPOQ; p = 0.0041) in T2D. Secreted frizzled-related protein 5 (SFRP5) was elevated in both T2D (p < 0.0001), whereas the OB group showed only a trend toward higher expression (p = 0.060) after BMI adjustment. Interleukin-10 (IL10) was reduced in both T2D (p = 0.0005), while in the OB group IL10 was not reduced after BMI adjustment. Importantly, the Wnt inhibitor sclerostin (SOST) was elevated in both T2D and OB subjects (p < 0.0001), while wingless-type family member 10B (WNT10B) and lymphoid enhancer-binding factor 1 (LEF1) were reduced in both T2D (WNT10B: p = 0.0070, LEF1: p < 0.0001) and OB (WNT10B: p = 0.0078, LEF1: p = 0.0199), even after BMI adjustment. Protein expression analysis by immunohistochemistry confirmed reduced non-phosphorylated (active) β-catenin in bone tissue of both T2D and OB subjects. Moreover, key inflammatory markers were associated with alterations in Wnt pathway-related genes. Consistently, serum cytokine analysis showed increased inflammation, with higher TNF-α (p = 0.0084) and lower ADIPOQ (p = 0.0402) levels in T2D, and higher interleukin-6 (IL-6; p = 0.0003) in OB compared to CTRL. Finally, serum TNF-α (r = -0.3557, p = 0.0112) and IL-6 (r = -0.3881, p = 0.0194) levels negatively correlated with bone strength.In conclusion, our results suggest that T2D is associated with increased bone inflammation, and Wnt signaling is downregulated in both T2D and obesity. These observations lay the groundwork for future mechanistic studies on bone fragility in metabolic diseases.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Vitiligo is a depigmentation skin disorder affecting 0.5%-1% of the inhabitants worldwide. Wtn signaling cascade is crucial in differentiation and development of melanocytes. Secreted frizzled-related protein 5 (SFRP5), member of the secreted frizzled-related proteins group, is well known as a suppressor of the Wnt signaling and represents a potential target of vitiligo. This study aimed to investigate immunohistochemical expression of SFRP5 in patients with nonsegmental vitiligo in comparison with healthy controls and to associate the results with the clinicopathologic information and included 48 participants: 24 patients with vitiligo and 24 healthy controls. All included participants were exposed to full history taking, full general and skin examination, scoring of vitiligo was done using vitiligo disease activity and vitiligo area scoring index scores. Immunohistochemical staining of SFRP5 was performed on punch biopsies from lesional, perilesional skin, and control skin. Comparison between lesional, perilesional, and control biopsies concerning epidermal SFRP5 expression revealed that SFRP5 staining, H score, and immunoreactivity scoring (IRS) were significantly elevated in all lesional and perilesional samples on comparison with controls ( P < 0.001). There were significant correlations regarding epidermal and dermal SFRP5 expression regarding percentage of positive cells, H-Score, and IRS ( P < 0.001). Also, dermal SFRP5 was significantly associated with vitiligo disease activity score ( P = 0.051). SFRP5 being expressed in lesional and perilesional areas could have a potential role in pathogenesis of nonsegmental vitiligo and it can be a promising therapeutic target in the future. Also, SFRP5 has a prognostic role in these patients.Copyright © 2025 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.
Recent advancements in bone tissue biomarker research have identified 2 promising molecules: Dickkopf-1 and secreted Frizzled-Related Protein 5. This study aims to evaluate the levels of these biomarkers in gingival crevicular fluid in periodontal health, gingivitis, and periodontitis and to assess the effects of non-surgical periodontal treatment on these biomarkers.A total of 99 adult subjects were included in this study, divided into 3 groups: 33 periodontally healthy individuals, 33 with gingivitis, and 33 with periodontitis. Patients in the gingivitis and periodontitis groups received non-surgical periodontal treatment. Periodontal clinical parameters were recorded, and gingival crevicular fluid levels of biomarkers were analyzed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay at baseline and 6-8 weeks post-treatment.Pre-treatment Dickkopf-1 levels were found to be highest in the periodontitis group (p < 0.001). Conversely, secreted Frizzled-Related Protein 5 levels were highest in the healthy group (p < 0.001). Post-treatment, a statistically significant reduction in Dickkopf-1 levels was observed in the gingivitis (p = 0.015) and periodontitis (p < 0.001) groups, while secreted Frizzled-Related Protein 5 levels significantly increased (respectively, p = 0.008 and p < 0.001). A statistically significant weak negative correlation was identified between total Dickkopf-1 and secreted Frizzled-Related Protein 5 levels (τ = -0.117, p = 0.027). Receiver operating characteristic curve analysis to assess diagnostic performance between periodontal health and periodontitis revealed an area under the curve of 0.938 for Dickkopf-1 and 0.803 for secreted Frizzled-Related Protein 5.These biomarkers could serve as valuable biomarkers in the pathogenesis of periodontal disease. Non-surgical periodontal treatment significantly affects the levels of these biomarkers, indicating their potential utility in monitoring therapeutic outcomes.In the human body, bone tissue is in a state of constant balance of production and destruction. This balance supports the maintenance of the mechanical integrity of the skeleton and the regulation of calcium and phosphorus levels. Bone markers have been developed to monitor various bone diseases and the effect of treatments without any interventional procedures. Dickkopf-1 (Dkk-1) and secreted Frizzled-Related Protein 5 (sFRP5) are two of the current bone markers that play a role in the balance of bone formation and destruction in the human body. The presence of these molecules in periodontal diseases, which cause inflammation and bone destruction in the gingiva surrounding the teeth, is not yet clear. In this study, Dkk-1 and sFRP5 levels were investigated in periodontal diseases, and the effect of treatment of periodontal diseases on these molecules was evaluated. In the transition from periodontal disease to health, Dkk-1 levels decreased while sFRP5 levels increased. Consistent with these results, Dkk-1 levels decreased in all groups after treatment, while sFRP5 levels increased. In conclusion, Dkk-1 and sFRP5 may serve as valuable markers for the early diagnosis of periodontal disease, and non-surgical periodontal treatment may significantly affect the levels of these markers, demonstrating their potential utility in monitoring treatment outcomes.© 2025 American Academy of Periodontology.
So-called hybrid oncocytic tumor (HOT) is the renal neoplasm most commonly associated with the germline folliculin (FLCN) mutations that define Birt-Hogg-Dubé syndrome. However, the spectrum of renal epithelial neoplasms associated with FLCN gene mutations has recently expanded to include neoplasms with somatic FLCN mutations and those with variant morphology. Some of these FLCN-mutated neoplasms overlap morphologically and immunohistochemically with TSC/MTOR-mutated and TFE3/TFEB fusion renal cell carcinomas, which makes sense given their overlapping genetic pathways. One morphology that has been reported in 1 to 2 cases each across multiple studies is that of a "histiocyte-rich" renal epithelial neoplasm, characterized by acinar spaces lined by neoplastic oncocytic epithelial cells variably distended by luminal histiocytes. An unanswered question is how frequently this morphology is associated with FLCN mutations. We identified 11 previously unreported cases of histiocyte-rich renal epithelial neoplasms and performed immunohistochemistry and next-generation sequencing. Five out of 11 cases (45%) demonstrated FLCN mutations, including at least 3 cases with evidence supporting occult Birt-Hogg-Dubé syndrome. All FLCN-mutated neoplasms were diffusely immunoreactive for glycoprotein nonmetastatic B (GPNMB), but so were 3 of the 6 morphologically similar cases in which FLCN mutations were not detected. The 2 syndromic cases with adequate surrounding kidney for evaluation demonstrated GPNMB-positive cysts lined by cells with similar cytology to that of the neoplasms, possibly representing precursor lesions. In summary, histiocyte-rich renal epithelial neoplasm is a morphologic pattern that is strongly but not invariably associated with FLCN mutations. Recognition of this pattern is helpful in that it may provide the first clue to the presence of occult Birt-Hogg-Dubé syndrome.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Smith-Magenis syndrome (SMS) is a rare multisystem genetic disorder caused by a 17p11.2 microdeletion or pathogenic variants in the retinoic acid-induced 1 (RAI1) gene. It is characterized by developmental delay, distinctive craniofacial features, behavioral dysregulation, and inverted sleep-wake rhythm. Because early clinical findings are often nonspecific, diagnosis is frequently delayed, and patients may initially present to child psychiatry services with behavioral complaints. We report a 5-year-old girl referred for hyperactivity, severe circadian sleep disturbance with recurrent nocturnal awakenings, self-injurious behaviors, sensory-seeking behaviors, and developmental delay. Comprehensive psychiatric, developmental, neurological, physical, and genetic evaluations revealed a 17p11.2 microdeletion involving both RAI1 and folliculin (FLCN). The diagnosis of SMS was confirmed, and the involvement of FLCN indicated additional potential long-term medical risks. This case underscores the importance of considering genetic etiologies in children presenting with severe behavioral dysregulation and sleep problems and highlights the critical role of comprehensive genetic assessment in guiding diagnosis, management, and long-term follow-up.© 2026 The Author(s). Developmental Neurobiology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
We report the case of a 72-year-old man referred to cardiothoracic services with a right-sided spontaneous pneumothorax. High-resolution computed tomography (HRCT) revealed extensive bilateral lung cysts and recurrence of the pneumothorax. Further clinical assessment led to a diagnosis of Birt-Hogg-Dubé (BHD) syndrome-a rare genetic condition marked by cystic lung disease, spontaneous pneumothoraces, skin fibrofolliculomas, and an elevated risk of renal tumors. We discuss the thoracic implications of BHD and the utility of uniportal video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (UVATS) with pleurodesis in recurrent cases. The report underlines the importance of genetic evaluation and long-term surveillance for patients and at-risk relatives. Genetic testing for the FLCN (Folliculin) gene was initiated and results were consistent with Birt-Hogg-Dubé syndrome.© Indian Association of Cardiovascular-Thoracic Surgeons 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Birt-Hogg-Dubé syndrome (BHDS) is a rare autosomal dominant disorder caused by germline pathogenic variations in the FLCN gene. It is characterized by cutaneous fibrofolliculomas, pulmonary cysts with risk of pneumothorax, and an increased risk of renal neoplasms. Salivary gland involvement, particularly parotid oncocytomas, is uncommon and may represent an underrecognized manifestation. This study evaluates the immunohistochemical (IHC) expression of folliculin (FLCN) and glycoprotein non-metastatic melanoma protein B (GPNMB) in parotid oncocytomas to assess their potential utility in identifying BHDS-associated lesions.A multicenter retrospective study was performed on formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded specimens, including BHDS-associated parotid oncocytomas, non-syndromic parotid oncocytomas, and BHDS-associated hybrid oncocytic/chromophobe renal tumors (HOCTs) as controls. IHC staining for FLCN and GPNMB was analyzed based on intensity, localization, and distribution. Statistical analysis was performed using chi-square testing.BHDS-associated parotid oncocytomas occurred in younger patients (n = 4, mean age: 53.7 years) compared to non-syndromic oncocytomas (n = 10; mean age: 72.5 years). Histologically, all syndromic cases demonstrated prominent cytoplasmic clearing and vacuolization on hematoxylin-eosin (H&E) staining, a feature not observed in non-syndromic counterparts (p ≤ 0.05). FLCN expression was variable in BHDS-associated parotid oncocytomas, showing patchy nuclear and cytoplasmic staining without statistically significant differences between syndromic and non-syndromic groups (p ≥ 0.077). In contrast, GPNMB exhibited strong, diffuse granular cytoplasmic expression in both BHDS-associated renal tumor controls, and parotid oncocytomas, while non-syndromic parotid oncocytomas lacked this pattern (p ≤ 0.05).Parotid oncocytomas in BHDS demonstrate distinctive clinicopathologic features, including younger patient age, cytoplasmic clearing, and a characteristic GPNMB-positive immunophenotype. These findings distinguish them from sporadic parotid oncocytomas and support the use of GPNMB as a potential adjunct marker to raise suspicion for BHDS. Recognition of this association is clinically significant, as patients with BHDS have an estimated 15-30% risk of developing renal malignancies, including chromophobe renal cell carcinoma and clear cell renal cell carcinoma, underscoring the importance of early diagnosis and appropriate surveillance.© 2026. The Author(s).
Birt-Hogg-Dubé (BHD) syndrome is an autosomal dominant disorder caused by folliculin (FLCN) gene mutations, with ethnically heterogeneous mutational spectra. Current management is primarily supportive and lacks curative therapies.This study aimed to characterize the clinical features and genetic variants in two distinct Chinese families with BHD syndrome and to preliminarily explore the feasibility of an mRNA-based protein replacement approach.A family-based prospective cohort study was conducted to identify FLCN mutations in two BHD families carrying rare FLCN variants enrolled in 2023.Whole-exome sequencing (WES) identified candidate mutations in probands, which were validated by Sanger sequencing (p.W376R and p.Q44*). Structural/functional impacts of p.W376R were analyzed via bioinformatics and qPCR. HEK293T cells were transfected with empty vector, wild-type FLCN, or mutant plasmids (p.W376R and p.Q44*), followed by co-transfection with or without synthetic FLCN mRNA. FLCN expression and mTORC1 signaling were assessed.Affected members in both families predominantly presented with respiratory symptoms, lacking typical skin lesions and kidney tumors. WES identified the FLCN variants p.W376R (previously classified as a Variant of Uncertain Significance, VUS) and a novel nonsense mutation p.Q44*. Genotype-phenotype co-segregation was confirmed for p.W376R. In vitro analyses demonstrated that both mutations reduced FLCN protein expression, leading to mTORC1 hyperactivation. Exogenous FLCN mRNA delivery rescued functional protein expression and reversed mTORC1 dysregulation.We provide co-segregation and functional evidence supporting the reclassification of the FLCN p.W376R variant as pathogenic according to ACMG guidelines and report a novel pathogenic mutation, p.Q44*, expanding the known FLCN mutational spectrum. Importantly, FLCN mRNA supplementation restored FLCN expression in vitro, providing preliminary evidence for mRNA-based therapeutic strategies in BHD syndrome.
Birt-Hogg-Dubé (BHD) syndrome is an autosomal dominant disorder caused by germline inactivation of the folliculin gene (FLCN). Approximately 25% of BHD syndrome patients are diagnosed with renal tumors, which can be multifocal and/or bilateral. These tumors have been reported to span a broad histologic spectrum; however, the majority exhibit a distinctive histology characterized by intermingled cytologic features similar to that seen in oncocytoma and chromophobe renal cell carcinoma. Accordingly, such tumors were previously termed 'hybrid oncocytic chromophobe tumor' (HOCT). To date, most studies have characterized tumors arising in BHD syndrome patients without molecular confirmation of FLCN biallelic inactivation; accordingly, the clinicopathologic characterization of molecularly confirmed FLCN biallelic inactivated tumors remains limited. This study evaluates a multi-institutional cohort of 18 renal tumors from different individuals, including integrated histologic, immunohistochemical, and targeted next-generation sequencing analyses. While all patients exhibited clinical characteristics raising suspicion for BHD syndrome, germline status was not available in 5 patients. Nevertheless, molecular analysis demonstrated findings supportive of FLCN biallelic inactivation in all patients, and there were no other candidate driver alterations or recurrent molecular findings. Histologically, most tumors showed 'conventional' histology consisting of solid or nested growth with a characteristic mosaic population of eosinophilic and clear cells and low-grade nuclear features, including frequent perinuclear halos and binucleation. Two cases showed 'non-conventional' histology including tubulocystic and tubulopapillary architecture. Immunohistochemistry revealed consistent GPNMB expression and a distinctive mosaic staining pattern for KRT7, L1CAM, and GATA3, aiding distinction from other eosinophilic renal neoplasms. Follow-up was available for 17 patients (median 37 months, range 1-110 months). Both patients with non-conventional morphology demonstrated advanced stage at presentation, including one with metastatic disease. Collectively, these findings define one of the largest molecularly-confirmed cohorts of FLCN biallelic inactivated tumors to date and support recognition of FLCN-driven tumors as a distinct, molecularly defined entity.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
The 9th Birt-Hogg-Dubé (BHD) International Symposium convened virtually in March 2026. The meeting attracted more than 100 participants internationally and highlighted recent findings in a variety of areas, including genetic insight and molecular understanding of BHD syndrome, also known as the Hornstein-Knickenberg syndrome, structure and function of the tumor suppressor Folliculin (FLCN), therapeutic and clinical advances, as well as patient experiences living with this disease.Copyright © 2026.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH) is emerging as a leading cause of chronic liver disease. MTOR (mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase) complex 1 (MTORC1) is a potential therapeutic target, whereas suppression of total MTORC1 activity can lead to unwanted effects. Here, we found that byakangelicin (Bya), a natural compound, selectively inhibited MTORC1-mediated phosphorylation of TFEB (transcription factor EB), without affecting canonical MTORC1 substrates. Knockout of hepatic Tfeb blocked the alleviation effects of Bya on hepatic steatosis, inflammation, insulin resistance, and fibrosis in mice, while reintroduction of TFEB restored these effects. We identified Bya directly bound to MET370 and PHE552 of FLCN (folliculin), suppressing the function of the FLCN-FNIP1 (folliculin interacting protein 1)/FNIP2 complex, which in turn inhibited MTORC1-mediated cytoplasmic sequestration of TFEB. Mutation of FLCN (M370A and F552A) in the liver abolished Bya-induced protection against MASH. Thus, Bya is a promising therapeutic natural compound for MASH, and selective inhibition of MTORC1 is a potential approach to treat this disease.Abbreviations: aa, amino acids; AAV, adeno-associated virus; Bio, biotin; Bio-Bya, biotin-conjugated Bya; BSA, bovine serum albumin; BW, body weight; Bya, byakangelicin; CETSA, cellular thermal shift assay; CHIP-atlas, chromatin immunoprecipitation atlas; Cmax, maximum concentration; CQ, chloroquine; DARTS; drug affinity responsive target stability assay; EIF4EBP1/4E-BP1, eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E binding protein 1; FBS, fetal bovine serum; FDA, food and drug administration; FIMO-JASPAR, find individual motif occurrences-JASPAR; FLCN, folliculin; FNIP1, folliculin interacting protein 1; GAP, GTPase-activating protein; GOT1/AST, glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase 1; GPT/ALT, glutamic-pyruvic transaminase; GTRD, gene transcription regulatory database; GTT, glucose tolerance test; H&E, hematoxylin and eosin; Hbonds, hydrogen bonds; HFD, high-fat diet; HFHC, high-fat and high-cholesterol; HOMA-IR, homeostatic model assessment of insulin resistance; HSCs, hepatic stellate cells; IP, immunoprecipitation; ITT, insulin tolerance test; KD, dissociation constant; KEGG, kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes; KPBS, potassium phosphate-buffered saline; LC-MS/MS, liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry; LW/BW, liver-to-body weight ratio; MAP1LC3/LC3, microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MASH, metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis; MASLD, metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease; MCD, methionine and choline deficient; MST, microscale thermophoresis assay; MTOR, mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; MTORC1, MTOR complex 1; ND, normal diet; NFKB/NF-κB, nuclear factor kappa B; NFKBIA/IKBA, NFKB inhibitor alpha; OP, oleate acid and palmitate acid; PBS, phosphate-buffered saline; PCA, principal component analysis; qRT-PCR, real-time quantitative PCR; RELA/p65, RELA proto-oncogene, NF-kB subunit; Res, resmetirom; Rg, radius of gyration; RMSD, root-mean-square deviation; RMSF, root-mean-square fluctuation; RPS3, ribosomal protein S3; RPS6KB1/S6K1, ribosomal protein S6 kinase B1; RRAGC, ras related GTP binding C; SASA, solvent-accessible surface area; SNRPD2, small nuclear ribonucleoprotein D2 polypeptide; SQSTM1/p62, sequestosome 1; T1/2, half-life; TFE3, transcription factor binding to IGHM enhancer 3; TFEB, transcription factor EB; TMEM192, transmembrane protein 192; VIM, vimentin; WT, wild-type.
Primary cilia sense laminar flow through physical deflection, yet how this mechanical cue is translated into signaling regulation remains unclear. Here, we demonstrate that flow-induced ciliary bending promotes the accumulation of GSK3β within cilia, leading to repression of Sonic Hedgehog (Shh) signaling. This response requires the tumor suppressor folliculin (FLCN). Loss of GSK3β results in ligand-independent ciliary accumulation of Smoothened (Smo) and aberrant Shh signaling. Mechanistically, GSK3β phosphorylates Smo at two sites in its C-terminal intracellular domain, and mutations at these sites enhance Smo retention within cilia. Shh stimulation induces inhibitory phosphorylation of GSK3β at T390, thereby relieving its negative regulation of Shh signaling. Together, these findings identify GSK3β as a mechanosensitive regulator that couples flow-induced ciliary bending to Shh pathway activity through control of Smo ciliary localization.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
As the mechanism of myocardial injury caused by fluoride is still unclear, the study is to investigate whether the effects of fluorosis on heart involve changes in lysosomal biogenesis and autophagic flux.Electrocardiogram (ECG) was detected in population in endemic fluorosis area and formation of myocardial fibrosis by Masson staining in rats. Aspartate aminotransferase (AST) activity and apoptosis rate were detected by biochemical methods; protein or mRNA levels of folliculin-interacting protein (FNIP1), mammalian rapamycin target protein (mTOR), transcription factor EB (TFEB), lysosome-associated membrane protein 2 (LAMP2), cathepsin D (CTSD), microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 (LC3) and P62 by Western blotting or real-time PCR or immunofluorescence analysis; pH value of acidic lysosomes by fluorescent probe; autophagy flux by transfecting adenovirus vector; autophagosomes in cells by transmission electron microscopy; FNIP1 overexpression transfected with the related lentivirus into H9c2 cells.The abnormal ECG, raised serum fluoride level and AST activity in patients with dental fluorosis were observed. In rat myocardial tissues or H9c2 cells exposed to fluoride, the serum AST activity and collagen fibers between myocardial cells were increased; the expressions of FNIP1, TFEB nuclear translocation, LAMP2 and CTSD obviously decreased, and p-mTOR, P62 and ratio of LC3II/I raised; the degradation of autophagic lysosomes declined, pH values and apoptosis increased. Significantly, overexpression of FNIP1 via inhibition of mTOR/TFEB pathway in vitro reversed the disorder of lysosomal biogenesis and the block of autophagic flux induced by fluoride.Fluoride exposure can induce myocardial damage and alterations in lysosomes biosynthesis and autophagic flux in myocardial cells, in which FNIP1 might be considered as one of the key regulatory factors involved in the mechanism.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skeletal muscle atrophy is driven by an imbalance between anabolic and catabolic signaling pathways, often involving suppression of the PI3K/Akt/mTOR axis. Thyroid Hormones (THs) are key endocrine regulators of skeletal muscle metabolism and adaptation, exerting context-dependent effects that promote either muscle atrophy or hypertrophy. Here, we identify Phosphoinositide-3-kinase interacting protein 1, Pik3ip1, as a critical regulator of TH-dependent muscle homeostasis. Transcriptomic profiling of skeletal muscle from muscle-specific D2 knockout (mD2KO) and TH Receptor knockout (TRKO) mice revealed a catabolic transcriptional program associated with increased Pik3ip1 expression. Consistently, Pik3ip1 expression negatively correlated with TH signaling in vivo and in vitro. Functional studies in C2C12 myotubes showed that Pik3ip1 overexpression suppresses Akt/mTOR signaling, indicating that its induction is sufficient to impair anabolic pathway activation. In vivo, Pik3ip1 expression was rapidly induced during denervation-induced muscle atrophy and remained persistently elevated in mD2KO and TRKO muscles, characterized by altered TH signaling. Sustained Pik3ip1 expression was associated with impaired activation of the Akt/mTOR pathway and enhanced muscle wasting. Conversely, TH treatment reduced Pik3ip1 levels, restored Akt/mTOR signaling, and promoted anabolic responses. Forced Pik3ip1 expression attenuated TH-induced Akt/mTOR phosphorylation, confirming its role as a mediator of TH-dependent anabolic regulation. Collectively, these findings identify Pik3ip1 as a key negative regulator of PI3K/Akt/mTOR signaling in skeletal muscle and establish the TH-Pik3ip1 axis as an important mechanism controlling muscle mass maintenance during atrophic conditions.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights reserved.
Osteoporosis, characterized by reduced bone mass and increased fracture risk, underscores the urgent need for novel anabolic therapies. G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are major drug targets, but the functions of adhesion GPCRs (aGPCRs) in bone remain largely unexplored. G-protein coupled receptor 125 (Gpr125) is an orphan aGPCR, and its role in osteoblast-mediated bone formation is entirely unknown.We employed lentiviral-mediated knockdown and overexpression of Gpr125 in primary mouse calvarial osteoblasts and bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs). Osteogenic and adipogenic differentiation were assessed by staining and marker analysis. Transcriptomic profiling (RNA-seq) and pathway analysis were used to identify downstream mechanisms, validated by rescue experiments with Gper1 overexpression, PI3K/AKT inhibitors (LY294002), and Wnt/β-catenin activation (Wnt3a CM). The osteogenic role of Gpr125 was tested in ovariectomized and aged mouse osteoporosis models via osteoblast-targeted adeno-associated virus (AAV) delivery.Gpr125 was highly expressed in osteoblasts, peaking during differentiation. Its knockdown severely impaired osteogenesis while promoting adipogenesis in vitro. Conversely, its overexpression enhanced bone formation. RNA-seq identified G protein-coupled estrogen receptor 1 (Gper1) as the key downstream target. We defined a novel signaling axis where Gpr125 upregulates Gper1, which activates PI3K/AKT signaling, leading to β-catenin stabilization and osteogenic transcription. Rescue experiments established a strict hierarchy: Gper1 overexpression fully rescued the osteogenic defect caused by Gpr125 loss, but not Gpr125 expression itself. PI3K inhibition blocked Gpr125-induced β-catenin activation and osteogenesis. β-catenin activation partially rescued osteogenesis but failed to restore upstream signaling. Critically, osteoblast-specific Gpr125 overexpression in vivo effectively ameliorated bone loss and reduced marrow adiposity in both postmenopausal and senile osteoporosis mouse models.Our study unveils a complete Gpr125-Gper1-PI3K/AKT-β-catenin signaling axis essential for osteoblast differentiation and bone formation. This work identifies the aGPCR Gpr125 as a novel positive regulator of bone anabolism and proposes the Gpr125-Gper1 axis as a promising therapeutic target for developing new treatments against osteoporosis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Menopausal hypertension is a leading contributor to adverse health outcomes in women. Although heightened sympathetic activation is implicated in menopausal hypertension, the hypothalamic mechanisms underlying increased blood pressure during ovarian senescence and how this compares to males are not well understood. In this study, treatment with 4-vinylcyclohexene diepoxide (VCD) was used to induce a form of accelerated ovarian failure that parallels the hormonal trajectory of post-menopause (post-AOF). In post-AOF mice, hypertension resulting from 14-day angiotensin II (AngII) infusion was associated with an increase in AMPA GluA1 receptor-mediated, but not NMDA receptor-mediated, currents in sympathoexcitatory neurons in the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus (PVN). Heightened GluA1 currents in hypertensive post-AOF mice appeared to be mediated by an uncoventional AMPA receptor-AKAP150-associated G-protein coupled estrogen receptor 1 (GPER1) signaling pathway. In male mice, the heightening of GluA1 signaling following hypertension also was dependent on AKAP150, but via the classical protein kinase A signaling pathway. Increased AMPA currents and hypertension were not affected by estrogen receptor beta agonists in post-AOF mice. These results show that both post-AOF and male mice show similar hypertensive responses to slow-pressor AngII but differ in GluA1-GPER1-mediated signaling pathways in the PVN. Moreover, the results in post-AOF mice contrast with prior reports of hypertensive female mice at an early stage of AOF comparable to perimenopause, suggesting that hypertension at early and late ovarian failure are associated with distinct hypothalamic ionotropic glutamate receptor-mediated signaling pathways.© 2026. The Author(s).
Estrogen plays pivotal roles in regulating bone formation and mineralization via estrogen receptors. Although the expression of G protein-coupled estrogen receptor-1 (GPER-1) is widespread in eukaryotic cells like bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs), the precise mechanism by which this membrane receptor dictates BMSC differentiation has not been thoroughly established. In this study, we investigated whether GPER-1 regulates BMSC osteogenesis by modulating cytoskeletal dynamics and cellular rigidity via the Ras homolog family member A (RhoA) signaling pathway. Murine BMSCs were treated with the GPER-1 agonist G1, antagonist G15, or GPER-1-targeted siRNA, and changes in cell morphology, F-actin organization, focal adhesion, and stiffness were assessed using confocal and atomic force microscopy. RhoA activity was measured using pull-down assays, and osteogenic differentiation was evaluated based on Alizarin Red S (ARS) staining and osteogenic gene expression. Treatment with G1 significantly suppressed RhoA activation in BMSCs, reduced the thickness of actin filaments and number of focal adhesions, and diminished cellular tension. Importantly, GPER-1 activation reduced mineralization and osteogenic gene expression. Furthermore, treatment with G15 attenuated the inhibitory effects of G1. These findings indicate that GPER-1 negatively regulates the osteogenic differentiation of murine BMSCs by inhibiting RhoA-mediated cytoskeletal remodeling, associated with the RhoA/actin/cell rigidity axis. Collectively, our findings in this study reveal a previously unrecognized regulatory role of GPER-1 in bone biology and identify this receptor as a potential therapeutic target for modulating stem cell differentiation during skeletal regeneration and osteoporosis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42010615
PLK3, which played an important role in cell cycle progression and stress response, was identified as highly expressed in various carcinomas. However, the functions, molecular characteristics, and prognostic value of PLK3 in glioma remained unexplored.We analyzed PLK3 expression in glioma samples from multiple databases. Both overexpression and knockdown of Plk3 were performed to investigate tumor cell growth in glioma, and the transplanted glioma mouse model demonstrated the role of Plk3 on tumor progression. Immunohistochemistry was conducted to detect PLK3 expression and immune cell infiltration. The trans-well assay for PLK3 on the immune cells recruitment was also determined. Additionally, we further evaluated the correlation between PLK3 and PD-1/PD-L1 as well as other immune checkpoints.We found that an increased level of PLK3 was associated with malignancy and poor prognosis of glioma, and further validated that PLK3 promoted glioma progression. PLK3 also played a crucial role in immune response and was involved in Tcell immune suppression. Specifically, we revealed that CD8+ and CD4+ Tcell infiltration was decreased in Plk3 overexpressed xenografts. Furthermore, it was predicted that PLK3 was synergistic with other checkpoint members in glioma. In general, high expression of PLK3 was associated with a malignant process and poor prognosis in glioma patients.Our findings indicated that PLK3 expression level was highly correlated to the malignancy of gliomas, and we validated that PLK3 could promote the GBM progress in vitro and in vivo. Furthermore, PLK3 played important roles in Tcell and neutrophil immune response in glioma. Besides, the conspicuous association between PLK3 and other immune checkpoints was also observed. Crucially, high-level PLK3 expression was revealed to be related to poor clinical prognosis. These results demonstrated that PLK3 may serve as a prognostic biomarker and a potential target for glioma.© 2025 The Authors.
Aging is characterized by cellular degeneration and impaired physiological functions, leading to a decline in male sexual desire and reproductive capacity. Oxidative stress (OS) lead to testicular aging by impairing the male reproductive system, but the potential mechanisms remain unclear. In the present study, the functional status of testicular tissues from young and aged boars was compared, and the transcriptional responses of Leydig cells (LCs) to hydrogen peroxide (H2O2)-induced senescence were explored, revealing the role of OS in promoting aging of the male reproductive system. 601 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) associated with OS, cell cycle regulation, and intracellular processes were identified. These DEGs were significantly enriched in critical aging pathways, including the p53 signaling pathway, autophagy, and cellular senescence. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis unveiled 15 key genes related to cell cycle and DNA replication, with polo-like kinase 3 (PLK3) exhibiting increased expression under OS. In vitro, PLK3 knockdown significantly enhanced the viability and antioxidant capacity of LCs under OS. This study deepens our understanding of how LCs respond to OS and provides new therapeutic targets for enhancing cellular resistance to oxidative damage and promoting tissue health.© 2025. The Author(s).
Pachytene piRNAs, a Piwi-interacting RNA subclass in mammals, are hypothesized to regulate non-transposon sequences during spermatogenesis. Caenorhabditis elegans piRNAs, the 21URNAs, are implicated in regulating coding sequences; the messenger RNA targets and biological processes they control during spermatogenesis are largely unknown. We demonstrate that loss of 21URNAs compromises homolog pairing and makes it permissive for nonhomologous synapsis resulting in defects in crossover formation and chromosome segregation during spermatogenesis. We identify Polo-like kinase 3 (PLK-3), among others, as a 21URNA target. 21URNA activity restricts PLK-3 protein to proliferative cells, and expansion of PLK-3 in pachytene overlaps with the meiotic defects. Removal of plk-3 results in quantitative genetic suppression of the meiotic defects. One discrete 21URNA inhibits PLK-3 expression in late pachytene cells. Together, these results suggest that the 21URNAs function as pachytene piRNAs during C. elegans spermatogenesis. We identify their targets and meiotic events and highlight the remarkable intricacy of this multi-effector mechanism during spermatogenesis.
Aim: To evaluate correlations of tumor PLK3 with clinical features and prognosis of resectable endometrial cancer (EC) patients.Methods: Tumor tissues from 200 EC patients receiving surgical resections and adjacent tissues from 50 of them were collected for PLK3 determination using immunohistochemistry.Results: Tumor PLK3 negatively linked with myometrial invasion ≥50%, lymphovascular invasion, stromal cervical invasion, and International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics stage (all p < 0.050). High tumor PLK3 independently related to longer disease-free survival (DFS) (p = 0.044) and overall survival (OS) (p = 0.049). Its prognostic value was also validated by time-dependent receiver operating characteristic analyses (area under curve at most timepoints was >0.700).Conclusion: Tumor PLK3 potentially reflects prolonged DFS and OS in EC patients undergoing surgical resections.
Assay systems for evaluating compound protein-binding affinities are essential for developing agonists and/or antagonists. Targeting individual members of a protein family can be extremely important and for this reason it is critical to have methods for evaluating selectivity. We have previously reported a fluorescence recovery assay that employs a fluorescein-labelled probe to determine IC50 values of ATP-competitive type 1 inhibitors of polo-like kinase 1 (Plk1). This probe is based on the potent Plk1 inhibitor BI2536 [fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC)-polyethylene glycol (PEG)-lysine (Lys) (BI2536) 1]. Herein, we extend this approach to the highly homologous Plk2 and Plk3 members of this kinase family. Our results suggest that this assay system is suitable for evaluating binding affinities against Plk2 and Plk3 as well as Plk1. The new methodology represents the first example of evaluating N-terminal catalytic kinase domain (KD) affinities of Plk2 and Plk3. It represents a simple and cost-effective alternative to traditional kinase assays to explore the KD-binding compounds against Plk2 and Plk3 as well as Plk1.
Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is a microvascular complication of diabetes mellitus, and its main clinical manifestation is retinal vascular dysfunction. DR causes blindness and is a problem with significant global health implications. However, treating DR is still challenging. In this study, we aimed to explore the role of polo-like kinase-3 (PLK-3) and the potential regulatory mechanism in DR. Sprague-Dawley rats were injected intraperitoneally with streptozotocin (STZ, 60 mg/kg) to induce a rat model of DR, and rat retinal microvascular endothelial cells (RRMECs) were treated with high glucose (HG, 25 mmol/L glucose) to develop a cell model of DR. We found that PLK-3 was significantly downregulated in the retinal tissues of STZ-induced diabetic rats and HG-induced RRMECs. Lentivirus-mediated PLK-3 overexpression alleviated the histological damages in DR rats. After HG stimulation, cell proliferation, migration, and angiogenesis in RRMECs were inhibited after PLK-3 upregulation. By using label-free proteomics, we identified 82 differentially expressed proteins downstream of PLK-3, including BRCA1-associated protein 1 (BAP1), which was significantly upregulated in PLK-3-overexpressed RRMECs compared to control cells under the HG condition. In vivo and in vitro assays indicated that the forced expression of PLK-3 increased the phosphorylation of BAP1 at serine 592 and caspase-8 expression. Detailed evidence showed that BAP1-shRNA-mediated knockdown restored the cell function in HG-treated RRMECs when PLK-3 was overexpressed. Collectively, this study shows that PLK-3 alleviates retinal vascular dysfunction in DR by inhibiting the phosphorylation of BAP1. Thus, PLK-3 may develop as a promising target for the therapy of DR.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) develops through step-wise genetic and molecular alterations including Kras mutation and inactivation of various apoptotic pathways. Here, we find that development of apoptotic resistance and metastasis of KrasG12D-driven PDAC in mice is accelerated by deleting Plk3, explaining the often-reduced Plk3 expression in human PDAC. Importantly, a 41-kDa Plk3 (p41Plk3) that contains the entire kinase domain at the N-terminus (1-353 aa) is activated by scission of the precursor p72Plk3 at Arg354 by metalloendopeptidase nardilysin (NRDC), and the resulting p32Plk3 C-terminal Polo-box domain (PBD) is removed by proteasome degradation, preventing the inhibition of p41Plk3 by PBD. We find that p41Plk3 is the activated form of Plk3 that regulates a feed-forward mechanism to promote apoptosis and suppress PDAC and metastasis. p41Plk3 phosphorylates c-Fos on Thr164, which in turn induces expression of Plk3 and pro-apoptotic genes. These findings uncover an NRDC-regulated post-translational mechanism that activates Plk3, establishing a prototypic regulation by scission mechanism.© 2024. The Author(s).
[This retracts the article DOI: 10.3892/ol.2018.9800.].Copyright: © 2026 Mu et al.
Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is a life-threatening cardiovascular disease for which no effective pharmacological treatments exist. Histone deacetylases (HDACs) have emerged as critical regulators of cardiovascular pathophysiology; however, the contributions of individual HDAC isoforms to AAA formation remain largely undefined. Here, we identified sirtuin 7 (SIRT7) as the most markedly downregulation isoform among 18 HDAC family members in human AAA tissues. Global and vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC)-specific Sirt7 knockout exacerbated AAA formation, whereas SIRT7 overexpression attenuated aneurysm progression. Mechanistically, SIRT7 deacetylates serum response factor (SRF) at lysine 154, thereby preventing SRF nuclear-to-cytoplasmic translocation and ubiquitin-mediated degradation and preserving the VSMC contractile phenotype. Consequently, SIRT7 deficiency enhances SRF acetylation, accelerates its degradation, and promotes VSMC phenotypic switching, ultimately facilitating AAA progression. Pharmacological activation of SIRT7 with the NAD⁺ precursor nicotinamide mononucleotide attenuated aortic dilation. Collectively, our findings reveal a crucial role for SIRT7-mediated SRF-K154 deacetylation in limiting AAA progression and suggest that nicotinamide mononucleotide supplementation may represent a promising therapeutic strategy for AAA.© 2026. The Author(s).
Dysregulated metabolism and functions of immune cells in the tumor microenvironment (TME) are key factors contributing to cancer progression. As the core immune cells in TME, tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) have become a central focus in metabolic research of TME, though underlying mechanisms are not fully elucidated. Here, we found that long-chain acyl-coenzyme A synthetase-3 (ACSL3) is highly expressed in TAMs and correlates with poor prognosis in colorectal cancer (CRC). ACSL3 depletion induces TAM ferroptosis and reprograms them toward an M1-like phenotype. We further revealed that ACSL3 undergoes lactylation in TAMs, and identified Sirtuin 7 (SIRT7) as its delactylase. Mechanistically, SIRT7 delactylates ACSL3 at lysine 679, restores its enzymatic function and reprograms lipid metabolism in TAMs. Importantly, lactylated and activated ACSL3 significantly protects TAMs from ferroptotic stress and sustains their immunosuppressive phenotype. On the contrary, inhibiting ACSL3 lactylation reprograms TAMs toward an M1-like phenotype, further restores T cell cytotoxicity and suppresses CRC progression. Collectively, these findings establish ACSL3 lactylation in TAMs as a crucial signaling event that enables ferroptosis resistance and maintains M2 polarization, thereby promoting CRC progression. This study provides the therapeutic potential of targeting SIRT7-mediated delactylation of ACSL3 in TAMs, offering a promising strategy for CRC therapy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Nucleus pulposus (NP) cell apoptosis and extracellular matrix (ECM) degradation constitute the two major pathological hallmarks of intervertebral disc degeneration (IVDD). Inhibiting these deleterious processes represents an effective strategy for attenuating IVDD progression. Sirtuin 7 (SIRT7), a member of the sirtuin family, plays a critical role in modulating gene expression, mediating cellular stress adaptation, and facilitating DNA repair. While SIRT7 has demonstrated therapeutic potential across diverse pathological contexts, its specific contribution to IVDD pathogenesis remains elusive. This study aimed to delineate the functional contribution of SIRT7 to IVDD progression and unravel its molecular mechanisms.We quantified SIRT7 levels by immunohistochemistry (IHC) in degenerative human and rat NP tissues, and by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) in tert-butyl hydroperoxide (TBHP)-treated NP cells. To evaluate the protective capacity of SIRT7 overexpression, we conducted multifaceted analyses encompassing oxidative stress markers, apoptotic indices, ECM turnover, and nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) cascade activity in TBHP-challenged NP cells, utilizing reactive oxygen species detection probes, mitochondrial membrane potential indicators, Hoechst 33342 nuclear staining, qRT-PCR, western blotting, and immunofluorescence techniques. Its therapeutic potential was subsequently validated through magnetic resonance imaging and comprehensive histopathological evaluation (hematoxylin and eosin, Safranin O/Fast Green, and Masson trichrome staining) combined with IHC in a rat IVDD puncture model.SIRT7 was consistently downregulated in degenerated human and rat NP tissues as well as TBHP-treated NP cells, concomitant with elevated NF-κB pathway activation. SIRT7 overexpression in TBHP-stimulated NP cells effectively attenuated oxidative stress, apoptosis, and ECM degradation. Mechanistically, SIRT7 overexpression may exert inhibitory effects on NF-κB signaling. Consistently, SIRT7 overexpression in the rat IVDD model decreased NF-κB activity, reduced NP cell apoptosis and ECM depletion, eventually ameliorating disc degeneration.Our findings demonstrate that SIRT7 expression declines progressively during IVDD development. SIRT7 overexpression protects against NP cell apoptosis and ECM degradation, and this protective effect correlates with inhibition of the NF-κB pathway. These findings suggest tha SIRT7 is a guardian of NP homeostasis and highlight its substantial promise as a molecular target for IVDD therapeutics.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Preeclampsia (PE), known for its association with oxidative stress, can lead to impaired endothelial function. Although melatonin, as an antioxidant, has been used for treating PE, the specific mechanism underlying its therapeutic effect remains ambiguous. The aim of this study is to investigate the correlation between melatonin and PE, and explore the mechanism by which melatonin enhances endothelial cell function in PE.Serum melatonin levels were quantified by enzyme-linked immunoassay (ELISA), whereas the expression levels of melatonin receptor and sirtuin 7 (SIRT7) in the placental tissues were assessed via western blotting (WB) in both normal and preeclamptic pregnant women. The impact of melatonin on hypoxia-reoxygenation (H/R)-treated wild-type and SIRT7-knockdown human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) was evaluated, along with the modulation of SIRT7 expression and the Protein kinase B/mammalian target of rapamycin (AKT/mTOR) signaling pathway.We observed a reduction in melatonin levels in patients with PE as well as decreased expression of melatonin receptor type 1A (MTNR-1A) and SIRT7 within placenta. Melatonin restored the migration and tube formation abilities and the expression level of SIRT7 in a PE cell model of HUVECs, while this restorative function was abolished upon SIRT7 knockdown. Furthermore, the AKT/mTOR signaling pathway was suppressed following H/R treatment, a phenomenon that was also observed upon SIRT7 knockdown. Conversely, melatonin administration activated the AKT/mTOR signaling pathway.Our results indicate a potential correlation between melatonin and the incidence of PE. Melatonin alleviates preeclampsia-related endothelial dysfunction, and this effect is associated with SIRT7 and the AKT/mTOR pathway.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Hypertension is increasingly recognized as a contributor to intestinal barrier disruption and gut microbiota dysbiosis, thereby promoting systemic inflammation and end-organ damage. Sirtuin 7 (SIRT7), a nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+)-dependent deacetylase, has been identified as a crucial regulator in the progression of cardiovascular diseases through multiple mechanistic pathways. However, the roles and underlying mechanisms of SIRT7 in the development of hypertensive intestinal injury remains unclear, and further investigation is required to determine whether SIRT7 can alleviate intestinal damage through modulation of the gut microbiota. In this study, SIRT7 expression and intestinal pathology were assessed in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs). An intestinal SIRT7 overexpression model was subsequently established in SHRs to evaluate its effects on intestinal dysfunction and microbial composition. Histological and immunofluorescence staining were performed to examine the small intestine, and 16S rRNA amplicon sequencing was conducted to analyze the gut microbiota. There was a marked deficiency of SIRT7 in the intestinal tract of hypertensive animals, which was closely associated with reduced expression of tight junction proteins, including Occludin and zonula occludens-1, as well as intestinal pathological damage in SHRs. SIRT7 overexpression strikingly alleviated intestinal fibrosis, structural damage, and increased intestinal permeability. More importantly, restoration of SIRT7 partially reversed hypertension-associated gut microbiota dysbiosis. In summary, our findings provide novel mechanistic insights into the role of SIRT7 as a critical protector of intestinal barrier integrity and microenvironmental homeostasis under hypertensive stress, and highlight the intricate interplay between SIRT7 and the gut microbiota during hypertension.© 2026. The Author(s).
Reproductive aging is an increasing health concern that affects family planning and overall well-being. While extensively studied in females, the mechanisms driving male reproductive aging remain largely unexamined. Here, we found that mammalian Sirtuin 7 sustains spermatogenesis in an age-dependent manner. Sirtuin 7 deficiency in mice increases histone H3 lysine 36 acetylation in spermatogonia and spermatocytes, a pattern also observed during natural aging, and leads to altered chromatin accessibility and increased vulnerability to genotoxic stress. Importantly, undifferentiated spermatogonia, required for continuous sperm production, become prematurely lost in Sirtuin 7 deficient mice and show increased genome damage accumulation during aging or environmental stress. These changes are concurrent with age-dependent defects in double-strand break repair and a meiotic delay. Taken together, our results indicate that Sirtuin 7 connects histone H3 lysine 36 acetylation epigenetic regulation to long-term genome stability in male germ cells, ensuring steady-state spermatogenesis during the lengthy male reproductive lifespan.© 2026. The Author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42030435
Psoriasis is a chronic inflammatory disease characterized by epidermal hyperplasia and dermal T cell infiltration. Epidermal keratinocytes function not only as the primary targets of the inflammatory response but also play a pivotal role in initiating and maintaining the inflammatory state. Sirtuin 7 (SIRT7), an NAD+-dependent protein deacetylase, is critical for various cellular processes, including proliferation, metabolic homeostasis, and inflammation. However, its role in psoriasis remains elusive.To investigate the role of SIRT7 in psoriasis pathogenesis and its underlying mechanism.Expression of SIRT family members was evaluated in lesions from psoriasis patients. Afterward, the effects of SIRT7 on psoriasis were investigated utilizing an imiquimod-induced psoriasis-like mouse model with KRT5cre; SIRT7fl/fl and cellular models involving siRNA transfection or overexpression through plasmid. The deacetylation target of SIRT7 was elucidated in vitro analyses, including identification of SIRT7 substrates, validation of deacetylation sites via site-specific acetylation-mimetic and null mutants.Among the SIRT family members, the expression of SIRT7 was significantly increased in the epidermal keratinocytes of patients with psoriasis compared to healthy controls. This finding was confirmed using an imiquimod-induced psoriasis-like mouse model, where SIRT7 deficiency in keratinocytes alleviated the psoriatic phenotype. In vitro studies revealed that SIRT7 contributes to keratinocyte proliferation, the expression of inflammatory cytokines, and glycolytic processes. Furthermore, we identified hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha (HIF-1α) as a novel substrate of SIRT7, which undergoes deacetylation at lysine 674 (K674). The deacetylated form of HIF-1α exhibited enhanced K63-linked polyubiquitination while reducing K48-linked ubiquitination, thereby avoiding proteasomal degradation and maintaining stability through interaction with ubiquitin-specific peptidase 9 x-linked (USP9X).Our findings reveal a novel SIRT7-HIF-1α signaling pathway that regulates keratinocyte metabolism, proliferation, and inflammation, which is involved in promoting psoriasis progression. This finding identifies a potential therapeutic target for psoriasis management.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Transcription of the hepatitis B virus (HBV) is regulated by the acetylation status of H3/H4 histones bound to the covalently closed circular DNA (cccDNA) minichromosome. Thus, this study aimed to investigate whether sirtuin 7 (SIRT7), an NAD⁺-dependent acetylated lysine 18 of histone H3 (H3K18Ac) deacetylase, represses HBV transcription by catalyzing H3K18 deacetylation on the cccDNA minichromosome.We investigated the effects of SIRT7 overexpression/knockdown on HBV transcription and histone acetylation in HepG2.2.15 cells, which constitutively express HBV, and HBV-infected HepG2-NTCP cells. Viral RNA levels and hepatitis B surface and e antigen levels were quantified using reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays, respectively. Meanwhile, Western blotting was used to determine protein expression levels. The association between DNA damage-binding protein 1 (DDB1) and cccDNA and the acetylation status of cccDNA minichromosome-associated H3K18 were analyzed using chromatin immunoprecipitation. Co-immunoprecipitation was used to detect protein-protein interactions. Data were statistically analyzed using Student's t-test.This study demonstrated that SIRT7 enhanced rather than repressed HBV transcription. Mechanistically, SIRT7 promoted HBV transcription by upregulating DDB1, a protein essential for HBV transcription, and by facilitating the recruitment of DDB1 to the cccDNA minichromosome. SIRT7 knockdown inhibited DDB1 expression and reduced DDB1 enrichment on the cccDNA, thereby suppressing HBV transcription. Conversely, SIRT7 overexpression upregulated DDB1 expression and enhanced DDB1-cccDNA binding, eventually promoting HBV transcription.SIRT7 enhances HBV transcription by upregulating DDB1 expression and promoting an association between DDB1 and cccDNA.© Copyright: © 2025 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Mutations in the ciliary gene INPP5E, encoding inositol polyphosphate-5-phosphatase E (INPP5E), can cause retinal degeneration as part of the ciliopathy Joubert syndrome or non-syndromic retinitis pigmentosa (RP). INPP5E regulates the membrane makeup of the primary cilium; however, its function in the specialized sensory photoreceptor cells of the human retina remain unclear. Here, we utilize control and CRISPR/Cas9-generated INPP5E knockout (INPP5ED477N/D477N) human induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) to generate retinal organoids (ROs). Through proteomic and immunofluorescence analysis, we show that INPP5E plays an important role in early retinal development and photoreceptor progenitor cell differentiation. In mature ROs, INPP5E localizes to the connecting cilium of photoreceptors, and the loss of INPP5E leads to altered localization of ARL13B and rhodopsin in mature photoreceptors. Furthermore, photoreceptor outer segment structure is affected, leading to elongated outer segment membranes in both cone and rod photoreceptors, suggesting an important role for INPP5E in photoreceptor outer segment membrane biogenesis. Together, these data underline the importance of INPP5E in retina development and photoreceptor structure and highlight the usability of ROs to study protein function in a human context.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
This report presents a case of unilateral retinitis pigmentosa (URP) with associated symptoms and microphthalmia in the right eye of a young female patient. A 23-year-old with a previous diagnosis of URP and a constricted visual field in one eye was examined. Slit lamp examination of the right eye revealed a moderate posterior subcapsular and mild nuclear sclerotic cataract, with a clear lens in the left eye. Funduscopic examination of the right eye showed diffuse retinal pigmentary epithelium atrophy with peripheral bone spicule pigmentation, cystoid macular edema, and glial clusters protruding from the optic nerve. Left eye fundoscopy revealed unremarkable retinal findings. Fundus autofluorescence, optical coherence tomography, Humphrey visual field, and full-field electroretinogram testing indicated compatible results with our funduscopic findings of URP. Axial length (AL) measurements and anterior chamber angle assessment by gonioscopy suggested microphthalmia of the right globe. The left eye was shorter than average but within normal limits. Salivary genetic testing revealed genetically sensitized retinae carrying heterozygous variants in the INPP5E, FSCN2, RP1L1, and WFS1 genes. The patient is a carrier of a pathogenic variant of INPP5E, while the significance of the other identified variants is uncertain. This case report showcases the unique presentation of URP, glial tissue abnormality, and microphthalmia, suggesting a potentially shared genetic link between retinal pigmentary degeneration and malformation of other ocular structures. Further study is required to understand any shared genetic and/or proteomic etiology. These discoveries may aid in possible future treatment modalities for retinal cilioretinopathy disease and related disorders.Copyright © 2026, Bivona et al.
Inositol polyphosphate-5-phosphatase E (INPP5E) encodes the ciliary protein INPP5E, which plays an important role in regulating the phospholipid membrane makeup of the primary cilium. Here, we utilize proximity labeled proteomics of INPP5E to broaden the number of known functional modules that work in close proximity to the protein. In doing so, we identified the EH-binding protein EHBP1 as a ciliary protein that localizes to the basal body and ciliary compartment of the primary cilium in human-derived fibroblasts and RPE cells. Additionally, we show that EHBP1 localizes to the rudimentary outer segment membrane of developing photoreceptors in retinal organoids. Dysfunction of INPP5E - either due to pathogenic variants in human fibroblasts or CRISPR/Cas9-generated loss-of-function variants in human retinal organoids - causes the localization of EHBP1 to be altered. Our data suggest that EHBP1 functions at the primary cilium and photoreceptors, where it is regulated by INPP5E. This provides further insights into the disease pathogenesis of retinal ciliopathies caused by pathogenic variants in INPP5E, and suggests that EHBP1 might be a candidate gene for retinal ciliopathies.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Inositol polyphosphate-5-phosphatase E (INPP5E) and type Ig phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate 5-kinase (PIPKIγ) coordinated the homeostasis of phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate and phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate in primary cilia. Modulating INPP5E or PIPKIγ activity changed the level of polycystin-1 and polycystin-2 in primary cilia. INPP5E inhibition increased the hypomorphic PKD1 variants (PC1-R3277C) in cilia and reduced cystogenesis in the kidney in vitro .Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease is mainly caused by mutations in PKD1 and PKD2 , which encode polycystin-1 (PC1) and polycystin-2 (PC2), respectively. PC1 and PC2 assemble a cation channel complex enriched in primary cilium, a sensory organelle associated with various developmental diseases, including polycystic kidney disease (PKD). Accumulating evidence supports the necessity of functional polycystin (PC) complex in cilia to prevent cystogenesis in the kidney, indicating that improving their ciliary levels may ameliorate defects underlying PKD pathogenesis. Yet, molecular mechanisms underlying the ciliary targeting and homeostasis of the PC complex are not fully understood.Indirect immunofluorescence microscopy was used to monitor ciliary levels of PC1 and PC2 in renal epithelial cells. Electrophysiology analysis in oocytes was used to determine the channel activity of the PC complex. Cystogenesis in the kidney was measured using in vitro 3D-Matrigel cell models and ex vivo mouse embryonic kidney models.Suppressing inositol polyphosphate-5-phosphatase E (INPP5E) or activating type Ig phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate 5-kinase raised ciliary levels of the PC complex in both normal renal epithelial cells and cells carrying autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease mutations that interrupt the trafficking of PCs into cilia, including GANAB inactivation and the trafficking PKD1 mutation p.Arg3277Cys (RC). PC1 RC formed a complex with PC2 and exhibited normal channel activity in vitro . An INPP5E that increases PC1 and PC2 in cilia, suppressed in vitro forskolin-induced cystogenesis of inner medullary collecting duct epithelial cell line 3 cells in 3D Matrigel and ex vivo cyst formation in embryonic Pkd1RC/RC mouse kidneys.Our results demonstrated that increasing the ciliary level of PCs, by manipulating a ciliary phosphoinositide signaling axis, enhanced the functionality of PCs and suppressed cystogenesis of renal epithelial cells in vitro .Copyright © 2025 by the American Society of Nephrology.
In humans, inositol polyphosphate-5-phosphatase E (INPP5E) mutations cause retinal degeneration as part of Joubert and MORM syndromes and can also cause non-syndromic blindness. In mice, mutations cause a spectrum of brain, kidney and other anomalies and prevent the formation of photoreceptor outer segments. To further explore the function of Inpp5e in photoreceptors, we generated conditional and inducible knockouts of mouse Inpp5e where the gene was deleted either during outer segment formation or after outer segments were fully formed. In both cases, the loss of Inpp5e led to severe defects in photoreceptor outer segment morphology and ultimately photoreceptor cell loss. The primary morphological defect consisted of outer segment shortening and reduction in the number of newly forming discs at the outer segment base. This was accompanied by structural abnormalities of the Golgi, mislocalized rhodopsin and an accumulation of extracellular vesicles. In addition, knockout cells showed disruption of the actin network. Together, these data demonstrate that Inpp5e plays a crucial role in maintaining the outer segment and the normal process of outer segment renewal depends on the activity of this enzyme.© 2025. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Skipped: PubMed ID 39781470 is a review article
In humans, inositol polyphosphate-5-phosphatase e (INPP5E) mutations cause retinal degeneration as part of Joubert and MORM syndromes and can also cause non-syndromic blindness. In mice, mutations cause a spectrum of brain, kidney, and other anomalies and prevent the formation of photoreceptor outer segments. To further explore the function of Inpp5e in photoreceptors, we generated conditional and inducible knockouts of mouse Inpp5e where the gene was deleted either during outer segment formation or after outer segments were fully formed. In both cases, the loss of Inpp5e led to severe defects in photoreceptor outer segment morphology and ultimately photoreceptor cell loss. The primary morphological defect consisted of outer segment shortening and reduction in the number of newly forming discs at the outer segment base. This was accompanied by structural abnormalities of the Golgi apparatus, mislocalized rhodopsin, and an accumulation of extracellular vesicles. In addition, knockout cells showed a reduction in the size and prevalence of the actin network at the site of new disc morphogenesis and the occasional formation of membrane whorls instead of discs in a subset of cells. Together, these data demonstrate that Inpp5e plays a critical role in maintaining the outer segment and the normal process of outer segment renewal depends on the activity of this enzyme.
INPP5E encodes inositol polyphosphate-5-phosphatase E, an enzyme involved in regulating the phosphatidylinositol (PIP) makeup of the primary cilium membrane. Pathogenic variants in INPP5E hence cause a variety of ciliopathies: genetic disorders caused by dysfunctional cilia. While the majority of these disorders are syndromic, such as the neuronal ciliopathy Joubert syndrome, in some cases patients will present with an isolated phenotype-most commonly non-syndromic retinitis pigmentosa (RP). Here, we report two novel variants in INPP5E identified in two patients with non-syndromic RP: patient 1 with compound heterozygous variants (c.1516C > T, p.(Q506*), and c.847G > A, p.(A283T)) and patient 2 with a homozygous variant (c.1073C > T, p.(P358L)). To determine whether these variants were causative for the phenotype in the patients, automated ciliary phenotyping of patient-derived dermal fibroblasts was performed for percent ciliation, cilium length, retrograde IFT trafficking, and INPP5E localization. In both patients, a decrease in ciliary length and loss of INPP5E localization in the primary cilia were seen. With these molecular findings, we can confirm functionally that the novel variants in INPP5E are causative for the RP phenotypes seen in both patients. Additionally, this study demonstrates the usefulness of utilizing ciliary phenotyping as an assistant in ciliopathy diagnosis and phenotyping.© 2024. The Author(s).
Aurora Kinase A (AURKA) promotes cell proliferation and is overexpressed in different types of polycystic kidney disease (PKD). To understand AURKA's role in regulating renal cyst development we conditionally deleted the gene in mouse models of Autosomal Dominant PKD (ADPKD) and Joubert Syndrome, caused by Polycystin 1 (Pkd1) and Inositol polyphosphate-5-phosphatase E (Inpp5e) mutations respectively. We show that while Aurka is dispensable for collecting duct development and homeostasis, its deletion prevents cyst formation in both disease models. Cross-comparison of transcriptional changes implicated AKT signaling in cyst prevention and we show that (i) AURKA and AKT physically interact, (ii) AURKA regulates AKT activity in a kinase-independent manner and (iii) inhibition of AKT can reduce disease severity. AKT activation also regulates Aurka expression, creating a feed-forward loop driving renal cystogenesis. We find that the AURKA kinase inhibitor Alisertib stabilises the AURKA protein, agonizing its cystogenic functions. These studies identify AURKA as a master regulator of renal cyst development in different types of PKD, functioning in-part via AKT.© 2024. The Author(s).
The immune synapse, a highly organized structure formed at the interface between T lymphocytes and antigen-presenting cells (APCs), is essential for T cell activation and the adaptive immune response. It has been shown that this interface shares similarities with the primary cilium, a sensory organelle in eukaryotic cells, although the roles of ciliary proteins on the immune synapse remain elusive. Here, we find that inositol polyphosphate-5-phosphatase E (INPP5E), a cilium-enriched protein responsible for regulating phosphoinositide localization, is enriched at the immune synapse in Jurkat T-cells during superantigen-mediated conjugation or antibody-mediated crosslinking of TCR complexes, and forms a complex with CD3ζ, ZAP-70, and Lck. Silencing INPP5E in Jurkat T-cells impairs the polarized distribution of CD3ζ at the immune synapse and correlates with a failure of PI(4,5)P2 clearance at the center of the synapse. Moreover, INPP5E silencing decreases proximal TCR signaling, including phosphorylation of CD3ζ and ZAP-70, and ultimately attenuates IL-2 secretion. Our results suggest that INPP5E is a new player in phosphoinositide manipulation at the synapse, controlling the TCR signaling cascade.© 2023. Springer Nature Limited.
Radiation-induced lung injury, a well-recognized complication of thoracic radiotherapy, can progress to pulmonary fibrosis, sharing pathological features with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. Although nintedanib is widely used as an antifibrotic agent, the therapeutic benefit of combination strategies remains partially understood. Therefore, in this study, we aimed to evaluate the effects of combined metformin and nintedanib treatment in a mouse model of irradiation-induced lung fibrosis. Female C57BL/6 mice were subjected to localized irradiation of 90 Gy in the left lung and treated daily with metformin, nintedanib or both drugs for 6 weeks. Lung fibrosis was assessed using gross examination, hydroxyproline quantification, histopathological scoring and quantitative image analysis. Changes in fibrosis- and injury-related proteins were examined by western blotting, including transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β), a profibrotic cytokine; SMAD family member 7 (SMAD7), an inhibitory regulator of TGF-β signaling; and surfactant protein D (SP-D), a lung epithelial injury-associated protein. Nintedanib-containing treatments improved histological lung injury in irradiated mice, including reduced collagen deposition, low pathological scores and preserved air space structure. Hydroxyproline content was also lower in the combination treatment group than in the other groups. The nintedanib-containing treatments suppressed irradiation-induced upregulation of transforming growth factor-β expression, and SMAD7 expression was selectively upregulated following combined treatment. In addition, elevated SP-D level following irradiation was partially reduced following nintedanib administration. These findings suggest that combined metformin and nintedanib treatment may provide a broader protective profile against radiation-induced pulmonary fibrosis, particularly in association with SMAD7 upregulation, although further studies are required to clarify whether the combination provides significant advantages over nintedanib monotherapy.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The Japanese Radiation Research Society and Japanese Society for Radiation Oncology.
Veratramine is a natural steroidal alkaloid derived from plants of the genus Veratrum that exhibits anti-inflammatory potential. However, its pharmacological mechanisms and direct molecular targets in asthmatic airway remodelling remain unclear, particularly regarding its role in regulating metabolism-epigenetic crosstalk within the airway microenvironment.This study aimed to determine whether Veratramine downregulates pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2) to suppress lactate accumulation, thereby inhibiting cAMP response element-binding protein 1 (CREB1) lactylation, restoring SMAD family member 7 (SMAD7) expression, and ultimately reversing transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β)-driven airway remodelling.A house dust mite (HDM)-induced murine asthma model was established to assess Veratramine efficacy. Molecular docking, molecular dynamics (MD) simulations, and cellular thermal shift assay (CETSA) confirmed its interaction with PKM2. Mass spectrometry, CUT&Tag sequencing, site-directed mutagenesis (K122R/Q), and adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated in vivo gene delivery were used to delineate the signalling axis.Veratramine dose-dependently attenuated HDM-induced airway inflammation, goblet cell metaplasia, and subepithelial collagen deposition. It was shown to bind to and downregulate PKM2, thereby reducing pulmonary lactate accumulation. Mechanistically, HDM induced CREB1 lactylation at K122, limiting its conformational flexibility and promoting repression of the antifibrotic gene SMAD7, leading to TGF-β pathway activation and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Inhibition of K122 lactylation or restoration of SMAD7 effectively reversed airway remodelling.This study identifies a novel "PKM2-lactate-CREB1 lactylation-SMAD7" axis driving airway remodelling in asthma. Veratramine acts as a PKM2 modulator, restoring SMAD7-mediated negative feedback via metabolic reprogramming, and represents a promising lead for anti-remodelling therapy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Background Pleckstrin homology-like domain family A member 3 (PHLDA3) has emerged as an important tumor suppressor gene, particularly in pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (PanNETs), such as insulinomas. PHLDA3 is also known to function as a p53-inducible tumor suppressor and plays a critical role in regulating Akt signaling and apoptosis. It is also recognized as a key component of a radiation-responsive gene signature, highlighting its potential as a biomarker for radiation exposure. Previous studies have shown that PHLDA3 mRNA is upregulated in irradiated mouse hematopoietic cells by quantitative RT-PCR. The RIN-5F cell line, a rat islet β-cell line derived from a radiation-induced insulinoma, is widely used in diabetes and endocrinology research. However, PHLDA3 mutations have not previously been investigated in radiation-induced insulinoma cell lines, even though ionizing radiation is known to cause genetic abnormalities. Methodology A putative p53-responsive element (p53RE) overlapping the transcription initiation site of the PHLDA3 gene has been identified. Because rat PHLDA3 is a single-exon gene, it lacks intronic regions. This study examined the DNA mutation status of the single exon and the putative p53RE of the PHLDA3 gene in the RIN-5F insulinoma cell line to determine whether radiation exposure induces mutations in PHLDA3. Results No mutations were detected in either the single exon or the putative p53RE of the PHLDA3 gene in this cell line. Conclusions The study was designed as an initial exploratory analysis specifically focused on insulinoma, which has been reported to exhibit altered PHLDA3 expression. Therefore, establishing whether genomic alterations exist in RIN-5F, one of the insulinoma cell lines, was a necessary first step. These findings suggest that radiation may promote the transformation of islet β-cells into insulinoma cells through mechanisms that do not involve direct mutations in the PHLDA3 gene. This highlights the complexity of radiation-associated cellular transformation and suggests that factors other than PHLDA3 mutational inactivation, such as epigenetic regulation or transcriptional changes, may contribute to islet β-cell oncogenesis.Copyright © 2026, Kiba et al.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short RNA molecules that bind to target mRNAs, resulting in translational repression and gene silencing. Overexpression of microRNA-21 (miR-21) is associated with various human diseases, including autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) and pulmonary fibrosis. In this study, a previously described heterobifunctional molecule, TGP-21-RiboTAC, that degrades the miR-21 precursor (pre-miR-21) in triple-negative breast cancer cells was investigated in polycystic kidney cell lines and a lung fibroblast cell line. In the former, TGP-21-RiboTAC degraded pre-miR-21 and derepressed miR-21's downstream targets, programmed cell death 4 (PDCD4) and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARα), known drivers of ADPKD. The heterobifunctional molecule also inhibited cyst growth and rescued the metabolic alterations that occur in ADPKD. In the lung fibroblast cell line, MRC-5, TGP-21-RiboTAC also reduced pre- and mature miR-21 levels, rescued transforming growth factor β (TGF-β)-induced repression of SMAD family member 7 (SMAD7), and inhibited cell invasion. Collectively, these studies demonstrate the potential of targeted RNA degradation as therapeutic agents that retard the development of organ fibrosis.
ObjectiveReperfusion therapy is essential for preserving cardiac tissue in patients with acute myocardial infarction. However, ischemia-reperfusion exacerbates cardiac damage. Vascular endothelial cell-derived small extracellular vesicles play a pivotal role in ischemia-reperfusion injury; although the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. Therefore, this study aimed to elucidate the mechanisms of vascular endothelial cell-derived small extracellular vesicles and investigate their potential therapeutic roles.MethodsSmall extracellular vesicles derived from vascular endothelial cells were isolated using ultracentrifugation, and their characteristics were confirmed using transmission electron microscopy, nanoparticle tracking analysis, and western blotting. Their effects on myocardial injury was evaluated in vivo using a mouse myocardial ischemia-reperfusion model, and their role was further examined in vitro using a cellular hypoxia/reoxygenation model. The key micro ribonucleic acid in small extracellular vesicles was screened via high-throughput sequencing, and its regulatory effect on cardiomyocyte apoptosis was verified in vitro through intervention experiments. The key gene was predicted using miRanda and TargetScan, and the related interaction was verified by a dual-luciferase reporter assay and ribonucleic acid immunoprecipitation.ResultsOur in vivo study revealed that small extracellular vesicles significantly attenuated ischemia-reperfusion-induced cardiomyocyte apoptosis and improved cardiac function. We also analyzed micro ribonucleic acid expression in small extracellular vesicles and found that miR410-3p was highly expressed and associated with cellular apoptosis. In vitro experiments demonstrated that small extracellular vesicles increased miR410-3p expression in cardiomyocytes and that miR410-3p effectively inhibited cardiomyocyte apoptosis in a cellular ischemia-reperfusion model. Conversely, miR410-3p inhibition attenuated the protective effect of small extracellular vesicles. Moreover, we found that SMAD family member 7 is one of the target messenger ribonucleic acids of miR410-3p and affects cellular apoptosis by modulating nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells. Cellular experiments verified that the antiapoptotic effect of miR410-3p was neutralized by SMAD family member 7 overexpression.ConclusionsThese results revealed that vascular endothelial cell-derived small extracellular vesicles attenuate ischemia-reperfusion-induced cardiomyocyte apoptosis via the miR410-3p/SMAD family member 7 axis. This study provides valuable insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying ischemia-reperfusion-induced myocardial damage and highlights potential therapeutic opportunities for mitigating it.
Red meat and/or processed meat are established colorectal cancer risk factors. Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have reported more than 200 variants associated with colorectal cancer risk. We used functional annotation data to identify subsets of variants within known pathways to construct pathway-based polygenic risk scores (pPRS) to assess interactions with meat intake.A pooled sample of 30,812 cases and 40,504 colorectal cancer controls from 27 studies was analyzed. Quantiles for red and processed meat intake were constructed. A total of 204 GWAS variants were annotated to genes with Annotation Query (AnnoQ) and assessed for overrepresentation in PANTHER-reported pathways. pPRSs were constructed from significantly overrepresented pathways. Covariate-adjusted logistic regression models evaluated interactions between pPRS and red or processed meat intake in relation to colorectal cancer risk.A total of 30 variants were overrepresented in four pathways: presenilin/Alzheimer disease, cadherin/WNT signaling, gonadotropin-releasing hormone receptor, and transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) signaling. We found a significant interaction between TGF-β pPRS and red meat intake [ORint = 0.95; 95% confidence interval (CI) = 0.92-0.98; P = 0.003). When variants in the TGF-β pathway were assessed, we observed significant interactions of red meat with rs2337113 [intron SMAD family member 7 (SMAD7) gene, Chr18] and rs2208603 [intergenic region bone morphogenetic protein 5 (BMP5), Chr6; P = 0.0005 and 0.036, respectively]. There was no evidence of pPRS × red meat interactions for other pathways or with processed meat.This pathway-based interaction analysis revealed a statistically significant interaction between variants in the TGF-β pathway and red meat consumption that influences colorectal cancer risk.These findings shed light on the possible mechanistic link between red meat consumption and colorectal cancer risk.©2026 American Association for Cancer Research.
Circular RNAs (circRNAs) have been identified as vital regulators in a variety of cancers, including glioma.However, the role of circRNAs in glioma initiation and progression remains largely unclear. In this study, we investigated the expression profiles of circRNA in three paired samples of glioblastoma multiforme (GBM). Our findings revealed that circSH3GL3 is significantly downregulated in GBM tissues, and its downregulation is associated with the WHO grade and patient survival. Furthermore, our research demonstrated that elevated circSH3GL3 suppresses cell proliferation and invasion both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, circSH3GL3 shares microRNA response elements with tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 3 (TIMP3) and smad family member 7 (SMAD7).The present study investigates the role of circSH3GL3 in glioma proliferation and invasion. It is demonstrated that circSH3GL3 competitively binds to miR-21-5p, thereby preventing the decrease in the levels of TIMP3 and SMAD7. These proteins subsequently regulate the PI3K/AKT and Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathways, respectively. These findings reveal the critical role of circSH3GL3 in inhibiting glioma proliferation and invasion via a ceRNA mechanism. The study concludes that circSH3GL3 is a valuable biomarker and therapeutic target for glioma patients.
Liuwei Dihuang pills (LW) are widely used as the traditional tonic prescription for the treatment of diabetes and diabetic kidney disease (DKD). This study aimed to investigate the potential mechanism underlying LW-mediated prevention and treatment of DKD from the perspective of host-gut microbiome co-metabolism.A rat model of DKD was established using high-fat diet and streptozotocin. Levels of type IV collagen (Col IV), fibronectin (FN), laminin (Lam), transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β), SMAD family member 7 (SMAD7), and SMAD3 in the kidneys were determined by real time-polymerase chain reaction and Western blot. Fecal metabolites were profiled using ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Metagenomic sequencing of the feces was performed using high-throughput sequencing.When combined with metformin (MET)-based therapy, LW significantly improved serum creatinine and blood urea nitrogen levels, kidney index, 24-h urine volume, urine protein content and excretion rate, and urinary creatinine and cystatin C levels. It also attenuated morphological changes. Correspondingly, LW intervention reduced the renal expression of TGF-β, SMAD3, Col IV, LAM, FN, interleukin (IL)-6, and IL-1β, while increasing SMAD7 expression. Additionally, it normalized metabolic pathway abnormalities in galactose, butyric acid, fructose, mannose, amino sugar, and nucleotide sugar metabolism. Moreover, LW regulated bacterial imbalances, notably in specific species such as Allobaculum unclassified, Escherichia coli, Pseudoflavonifractor capillosus, Desulfovibrio porci, Oscillibacter sp. CU971, Parablautia muri, Phocaeicola dorei, Phocaeicola faecalis, Phocaeicola vulgatus, and Raoultella unclassified.The combination of LW and MET ameliorated renal impairment in DKD rats by regulating the TGF-β/SMAD signaling pathway, metabolic disturbances in endogenous metabolites, and gut microbiota dysbiosis.Copyright © 2026 Jiang, Hu, Deng, Huang, Chen, Yang, Du, Ji and Tang.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) shows significant differences in incidence and mortality between genders.This study investigates the mechanisms by which estrogen receptors (ER), specifically ERα, influence HCC outcomes.Bioinformatics approaches were used to study estrogen and its related pathways in relation to HCC. Estrogen receptor expression levels, along with downstream circular RNAs (circRNAs) and microRNAs (miRNAs), were measured in MHCC97H cells via quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR). Western blot was used to assess estrogen receptor 1 (ESR1) and SMAD family member 7 (SMAD7) protein expression. Cell proliferation, migration and cell cycle status of MHCC97H cells were measured using Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), Transwell assays and flow cytometry for cell cycle analysis.Bioinformatics analysis revealed that ERα acts as a transcription factor (TF) for 9 circRNAs with differential expression in HCC. We constructed the ERα/circRNA/miRNA/SMADs network based on the downstream targets of circRNAs, which were associated with the SMADs family. Survival studies revealed that ESR1 is correlated with favorable patient survival in liver cancer. In MHCC97H cells, qRT-PCR findings showed low expression of ESR1, hsa_circ_0004913 and SMAD7, but significant expression of hsa-miR-96-5p. Overexpression of ESR1 significantly increased the expression of hsa_circ_0004913 and SMAD7 while suppressing hsa-miR-96-5p. Western blot analysis confirmed these findings. Furthermore, ESR1 overexpression reduced MHCC97H cell proliferation and migration while inhibiting growth through G1 phase arrest. ESR1 acts as a TF that binds to the promoter of hsa_circ_0004913, as demonstrated using chromatin Immunoprecipitation followed by chromatin immunoprecipitation-quantitative real-time PCR (ChIP-qPCR). A dual-luciferase reporter experiment confirmed that hsa_circ_0004913 targets and regulates hsa-miR-96-5p.ERα can function as aTF, modulating the expression of various circRNAs with differential expression in HCC. Through this regulation, it modulates the circRNA/miRNA/SMADs network, thereby inhibiting the progression of HCC.
Osler's disease (hereditary haemorrhagic telangiectasia, HHT) is associated with telangiectasia and arteriovenous malformations, but reports of myocardial involvement are rare.A 37-year-old woman with a history of pulmonary arteriovenous fistula and paradoxical embolism due to Osler's disease with endoglin mutation (HHT1) became pregnant despite high-risk considerations and delivered by cesarean section. On postpartum day 23, she developed dyspnoea and was diagnosed with acute heart failure. Echocardiography showed decreased cardiac output and circumferential left ventricular wall thickening compared with normal findings before delivery. Myocardial biopsy revealed no inflammatory infiltration but showed interstitial enlargement and red blood cell leakage, suggestive of myocardial haemorrhage. Coronary angiography demonstrated contrast retention in distal coronary arteries. Treatment with diuretics led to clinical improvement, and cardiac function returned to normal by day 78 postpartum.This is a rare case of acute heart failure in Osler's disease during the perinatal period, associated with transient circumferential left ventricular wall thickening. The findings suggest that abnormal myocardial microvasculature in Osler's disease may predispose to interstitial haemorrhage under perinatal haemodynamic stress and anticoagulant therapy.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology.
Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia (HHT) is an autosomal‑dominant vascular disease characterized by telangiectasias and visceral arteriovenous malformations (AVMs), commonly in the lungs, liver, and brain. HHT is linked to mutations in the genes Activin A Receptor Like Type 1 (ACVRL1), Endoglin (ENG), and SMAD Family Member 4 (SMAD4). The ACVRL1 gene encodes the receptor ACVRL1 (Activin A Receptor Like Type 1), also known as ALK1 (Activin Receptor-Like Kinase 1), and belongs to the Transforming Growth Factor-Beta (TGFβ) Superfamily of receptors. Approximately 20% of patients with ACVRL1-associated HHT develop pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). [1] In pediatric PAH cohorts, ACVRL1 mutations account for nearly 10% of identified genetic variants. [2] The reduced penetrance of PAH among ACVRL1 mutation carriers suggests that additional modifiers account for PAH development. [3]. Given the relevance of the bone‑morphogenetic‑protein (BMP) pathway to the pathogenesis of PAH, and the intimate relationship of TGFβ superfamily signaling partners including ACVRL1 and BMPR2, genes which modify BMP-TGFβ signaling balance may contribute to PAH development in children with ACVRL1‑positive HHT. One such gene is SMAD9 (Receptor Regulated SMAD 9); the protein product of SMAD 9 (SMAD8) which mediates downstream TGFβ signaling. Herein, we report what we believe to be the youngest reported case of PAH in ACVRL1‑mediated HHT, in a patient who co‑harbors a SMAD9 mutation.© 2026 The Author(s). Pulmonary Circulation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Pulmonary Vascular Research Institute.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42494121 is a review article
Platinum resistance remains a major cause of treatment failure in ovarian cancer (OC). Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), key components of the tumor microenvironment, play critical roles in OC progression. Inhibin subunit beta A (INHBA) and its putative receptor endoglin (ENG) have been linked to OC chemoresistance, but their functional interaction in mediating cisplatin resistance remains unclear.Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was performed to characterize CAF subsets and assess INHBA and ENG expression in OC tissues. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) and immunofluorescence (IF) staining was conducted on tissue microarrays to evaluate protein expression and co-localization. Primary CAFs and normal fibroblasts (NFs) were isolated. INHBA was knocked out in CAFs via CRISPR/Cas9, and ENG was stably knocked down in cisplatin-resistant OC cells by lentiviral shRNA. The INHBA-ENG axis was investigated through in vitro assays, co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP), molecular docking, and in vivo xenograft models.scRNA-seq resolved four CAF subsets, with myoCAF1 being dominant in platinum-resistant tumors. INHBA was specifically restricted to myoCAF1, while ENG was enriched in epithelial cells, and their mRNA levels showed a strong positive correlation. Consistently, IHC confirmed significant upregulation of INHBA/ENG in OC, especially in platinum-resistant cases. CAF-derived INHBA promoted OC cell proliferation, invasion, EMT, and cisplatin resistance. Molecular docking suggested a high-affinity INHBA-ENG interaction, which was confirmed by Co-IP in OC-CAF co-cultures. ENG knockdown reversed cisplatin resistance, an effect abrogated by recombinant INHBA. In vivo, CAF-derived INHBA promoted tumor growth and cisplatin resistance in an ENG-dependent manner.MyoCAFs-derived INHBA binds to ENG on OC cells, inhibits apoptosis, induces EMT, and promotes cisplatin resistance. The INHBA-ENG axis represents a promising therapeutic target for overcoming platinum resistance in OC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Pediatric B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) is molecularly heterogeneous and influenced by the bone marrow microenvironment. Mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) provide critical niche signals, yet their transcriptomic remodeling in B-ALL is poorly defined. This study aims to define a compact gene signature that complements blast-centric diagnostics.We analyzed GSE101425 (GPL570) MSC microarrays (rather than leukemic blasts) from pediatric B-ALL at diagnosis (day 0, n=35), remission (n=29), relapse (n=6), and healthy donors (n=16). Differential expression (day 0 vs. healthy), Random Forest feature ranking, consensus clustering, and Gene Ontology (GO), Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG), and Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) analyses were performed. Within-cohort discrimination used 5-fold cross-validated logistic regression with bootstrapped area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) confidence intervals (CIs) (CCN4 mapped to WISP1 on GPL570). Public single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data provided cellular context. Peripheral blood real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) served as an exploratory assessment of systemic expression, not MSC validation.We identified 78 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in B-ALL-associated MSCs. A four-gene MSC signature [Dickkopf WNT Signaling Pathway Inhibitor 1 (DKK1), Regulator of G Protein Signaling 2 (RGS2), Cellular Communication Network Factor 4/WNT1-Inducible Signaling Pathway Protein 1 (CCN4/WISP1), Lysozyme (LYZ)] distinguished active B-ALL MSCs from healthy MSCs with cross-validated AUC 0.883 (95% CI: 0.783-0.966) and separated samples into two transcriptional states with distinct pathway enrichment, including extracellular matrix and immune-related programs. Single-cell data localized RGS2 and LYZ to immune compartments, whereas DKK1 and CCN4/WISP1 were low, supporting stromal specificity. Peripheral blood RT-qPCR showed decreased RGS2 and LYZ, whereas CCN4 showed a nonsignificant upward trend (P=0.053), underscoring compartment-dependent patterns.These data delineate transcriptional remodeling of bone marrow MSCs in pediatric B-ALL and nominate a four-gene MSC-associated signature. By centering on stromal MSC transcriptomes rather than leukemic blasts, we target a complementary microenvironmental layer of B-ALL biology that is underrepresented in blast-centric transcriptomics. The findings are hypothesis-generating and require independent MSC cohorts and functional validation.© AME Publishing Company.
Preeclampsia is a leading cause of maternal and perinatal morbidity and mortality worldwide. Recent discoveries identifying circulating antiangiogenic factors-particularly soluble fms-like tyrosine kinase-1 (sFlt-1) and soluble endoglin-as key mediators of the maternal syndrome have transformed understanding of its pathogenesis. These insights have led to the development of molecular diagnostics, such as sFlt-1, placental growth factor, and their ratio, now integrated into clinical practice for improved prediction, diagnosis, and management. The serum sFlt-1/placental growth factor is particularly useful for nephrologists for early detection of superimposed preeclampsia in pregnant women with CKD. Emerging therapeutic strategies-including targeted apheresis, recombinant ligands, RNA-based interventions, and small-molecule modulators-offer promise for disease modification. Preeclampsia also confers long-term cardiovascular and kidney risks for mothers and adverse pulmonary outcomes for offspring, underscoring its lifelong effect. Progress in preeclampsia care will depend on sustained scientific innovation and the responsible inclusion of pregnant women in clinical trials to ensure that future diagnostics and therapies are both safe and effective for both mother and baby.Copyright © 2026 by the American Society of Nephrology.
Preeclampsia is a common and severe hypertensive disorder of pregnancy driven by placental dysfunction. In the absence of effective therapies, termination of pregnancy remains the only definitive treatment, resulting in significant maternal and fetal mortality. In this study, single-cell transcriptomic analysis of human placentae identified extravillous trophoblasts as a key pathogenic invasive cell subtype in preeclampsia, characterized by aberrant overexpression of fms-like tyrosine kinase-1 (Flt-1) and endoglin (Eng), the molecular sources of the soluble anti-angiogenic factors sFlt-1 and sEng. To coordinately modulate these pathogenic mediators, this study designed a novel dual-target divalent siRNA (dual-siRNA) to enhance molecular stability and enable simultaneous gene silencing, and further developed a ligand-functionalized membrane-fusogenic liposomal delivery system (iMFlip) targeting receptors highly expressed in invasive trophoblasts for selective dual-siRNA delivery. The optimized iMFlip@dual-siRNA exhibited favorable stability and low protein adsorption properties, and achieved efficient cytosolic siRNA delivery predominantly through membrane fusion, thereby substantially bypassing lysosomal degradation. In vitro, iMFlip@dual-siRNA markedly restored the invasion, migration and angiogenesis of hypoxia-injured HTR-8/SVneo cells. The subsequent pharmacodynamic studies showed that iMFlip@dual-siRNA simultaneously reduced circulating maternal sFlt-1 and sEng levels, alleviated placental vascular dysfunction and inflammatory microenvironment remodeling through reactivation of the PI3K/Akt/eNOS signaling pathway, and consequently improved maternal hypertension, proteinuria, and fetal growth restriction in a preeclamptic mouse model. Collectively, this study established a mechanism-driven therapeutic paradigm that integrated single-cell transcriptomic analysis-guided pathogenic target identification with advanced nucleic acid delivery strategies, offering a promising precision intervention approach for preeclampsia.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42373971 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42364738 is a review article
Pregnancy-associated acute kidney injury (PrAKI) remains a major contributor to maternal and fetal morbidity worldwide, with an estimated incidence of 40-100 per 10 000 pregnancies. PrAKI is substantially more prevalent in low- and middle-income countries. Unlike AKI episodes unrelated to pregnancy, PrAKI arises in a unique physiological context characterized by haemodynamic adaptation, immune tolerance, hormonal modulation, and the presence of the fetal-placental unit. These pregnancy-specific factors alter renal reserve, endothelial stability, and inflammatory responsiveness. The pathogenesis of PrAKI is multifactorial. Haemodynamic vasodilation and increased glomerular filtration rates during pregnancy reduce renal functional reserve, rendering the kidney vulnerable to hypovolemia and sepsis. Placental ischemia drives the release of antiangiogenic factors, particularly soluble fms-like tyrosine kinase-1 (sFlt-1) and soluble endoglin, causing systemic endothelial dysfunction and glomerular endotheliosis. Disruption of immune tolerance and complement regulation further contributes to microangiopathy and autoimmune-mediated renal injury. Structural urinary tract changes, metabolic stressors, and maternal comorbidities amplify susceptibility. Beyond the index event, PrAKI has lasting consequences. Maladaptive renal repair promotes chronic kidney disease and long-term cardiovascular risk, while fetal exposure to uremic toxins and placental dysfunction contribute to intrauterine growth restriction, prematurity, and reduced nephron mass with lifelong cardio-renal implications. Understanding the pathophysiology of PrAKI, particularly endothelial, immunologic, and placental interactions, has direct diagnostic and therapeutic implications, including the use of angiogenic biomarkers and targeted haemodynamic strategies. Future research must prioritize molecular predictors, global registries, and mechanistic studies to reduce intergenerational kidney and cardiovascular disease.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the ERA. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site-for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565029 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42564199 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558249 is a review article
Atherosclerosis is characterized by the buildup of fatty plaques that thicken and stiffen arterial walls. Macrophages (Mφs) significantly contribute to this process through their scavenger receptor CD36. PIM1 is a serine/threonine kinase known to modulate immune responses and cell metabolism. However, its role in Mφ lipid handling and atherogenesis is not well defined. This study examines the role of PIM1 in regulating CD36 expression and function in Mφs during foam cell formation and atherosclerosis progression.We performed in vitro studies by treating murine peritoneal Mφs from Pim1-/- and wild-type mice with oxLDL (oxidized low-density lipoprotein). We measured CD36, PIM1, and plaque-associated proteins and mRNA levels, oxLDL binding and uptake rates, and foam cell formation. For in vivo studies, we fed myeloid-specific Pim1-deficient (Apoe-/-Lyz2Cre/+Pim1fl/fl) and their littermate control (Apoe-/-Pim1fl/fl) mice a high-fat diet for 12 weeks. We then evaluated plaque formation in their aortic sinuses and arches.Deletion of Pim1 in Mφs reduced CD36 protein expression by up to 96.7% compared with wild-type controls. This led to a 49.6% decrease in foam cell formation and a 25.5% reduction in cellular cholesterol after oxLDL treatment. Pharmacological inhibition of PIM kinase activity in wild-type Mφs also impaired oxLDL handling, with a 64.5% reduction in binding and a 57.9% reduction in uptake. Bulk RNA-sequencing revealed that Pim1 deficiency downregulated PPARγ (peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma) signaling. Treatment with a PPARγ agonist restored CD36 levels in the Pim1 knockdown Mφs, suggesting that PIM1 regulates CD36 through PPARγ. Moreover, Pim1 myeloid-specific deficiency caused a 69.4% reduction in atherosclerotic plaque formation.PIM1 acts as a key upstream regulator of CD36 by enhancing PPARγ activity in Mφs. The PIM1-CD36 axis promotes oxLDL binding, uptake, and foam cell formation. Targeting the PIM1/PPARγ/CD36 pathway could offer new ways to modulate Mφ lipid metabolism and reduce atherosclerotic plaque progression.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42552039 is a review article
Poor tendon-bone healing is a major challenge after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR). TFRD, the total flavonoids of Rhizoma Drynariae, has pharmacological effects in promoting bone formation, but it remains less understood whether it accelerates tendon-bone healing by regulating the osteogenic differentiation of tendon-derived stem cells (TDSCs). TDSCs were isolated from the Achilles tendons of rats and characterized for their stem cell properties through flow cytometry and multilineage differentiation assays. The effects of TFRD on TDSC proliferation, migration, and osteogenic differentiation were evaluated using the cell counting kit-8 assay, scratch wound healing assays, Alizarin Red S staining, and Western blot analysis. Gene and protein expression levels associated with the transforming growth factor-β/bone morphogenetic protein (TGF-β/BMP) signaling pathway were assessed by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction and Western blot. A rat ACLR model was created and divided into four experimental groups: Sham, ACLR, TFRD, and TFRD + Noggin. Tendon-bone healing was analyzed using hematoxylin and eosin staining, Masson's trichrome staining, bone mineral density measurements, and immunohistochemistry. Noggin was used to inhibit BMP signaling for pathway validation. TFRD (50-100 μg/mL) significantly enhanced the proliferation, migration, and osteogenic differentiation of TDSCs, and increased the expression of key osteogenic markers, including runt-related transcription factor 2 (RUNX2) and alkaline phosphatase (ALP). Mechanistically, TFRD activated the TGF-β/BMP signaling pathway, leading to elevated levels of TGF-β1, BMP-2, and phosphorylated Smad1/5/8. Moreover, TGF-β1 extended the duration of BMP-2 signaling and suppressed Noggin expression. The osteogenic effects of TFRD were diminished when Noggin was applied, indicating its role in modulating the BMP pathway. In vivo, TFRD significantly improved collagen fiber alignment, calcification, and bone mineral density at the tendon-bone junction, while also upregulating RUNX2 and ALP expression. TFRD promotes osteogenic differentiation of TDSCs by activating the TGF-β/BMP signaling pathway, improves tendon-bone healing after ACLR, and provides experimental support for its clinical application.© 2026. The Society for In Vitro Biology.
Patient-derived organoids (PDOs) can recapitulate selected features of original tumors and provide a useful system for studying epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) in three-dimensional culture. Nonetheless, the protocol to generate EOC-PDOs has not yet been standardized. We therefore empirically refined the culture conditions and medium composition, considering the protocol effective when EOC PDOs were successfully established in five consecutive attempts. Tissue and ascites samples (from 29 and 8 patients, respectively) were used and the Syringe-extruded Organoid Basement membrane extract Assembly (SOBA) fragment culture method applied. Selected similarities in cell morphology, marker expression, and detectable alterations between organoids and patient-matched tumor tissue were assessed using pairwise comparisons. The refined workflow used a culture medium containing recombinant human R-Spondin 1 protein (250 ng/mL), Noggin, and NRG1, factors implicated in organoid maintenance and expansion. Ultimately, 31 EOC organoid lines successfully generated from 82.8% (24/29) of tissue and 87.5% (7/8) of ascites samples. The SOBA technique increased the 10 day PDO yield by 2.75-fold relative to the surface-attached dome method (p < 0.0001). This empirically refined workflow can be adjusted for specific experimental applications; however, further validation across larger and clinically diverse EOC cohorts is required.© 2026. The Author(s).
Demineralized bone matrix (DBM) is widely used as an alternative to autografts for repairing bone defects, but its clinical efficacy is limited by poor retention at the defect site and inadequate osteogenic capacity. Here, we developed a multifunctional carrier system aimed at improving the capacity of DBM by utilizing nanoclay-based self-assembly along with cell-derived exosome mimetics (EMs). EMs were derived from mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) osteogenically induced in spheroids and were functionalized with bisphosphonates (BP) to assemble a stable gel network with laponite nanoclays via BP-nanoclay edge interactions. The resulting self-assembled nanoclay gel exhibited excellent injectability, moldability, and self-healing properties, even when loaded with a high concentration of DBM, and supported MSC osteogenic differentiation. We further enhanced the potency of DBM-mediated osteogenesis and bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signaling in the nanoclay gel by incorporating BP-functionalized EMs (EM-BPs) loaded with miR-200c that can target BMP antagonist noggin. Lastly, we validated the bone regeneration efficacy of DBM-loaded nanoclay gels in comparison to commercially available DBM putties using a mouse calvarial defect model. This approach presents a versatile nanoclay gel carrier platform that overcomes the limitations of current DBM formulations and provides a promising strategy for improved bone repair.
The intestinal porcine epithelial cell line (IPEC-J2) is a nontransformed jejunal model derived from unsuckled piglets. It is increasingly used in gut physiology research, yet its application to nutrient absorption remains underexplored. Four media types were assessed for their ability to support IPEC-J2 barrier maturation and permeability: Dulbecco's modified Eagle medium/Ham's F-12 with 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS10), 10% porcine serum (PS10), 5% porcine serum (PS5) supplemented with Wnt3a-R-spondin-Noggin conditioned medium (PS5+L-WRN), and PS5 with epidermal growth factor and insulin-transferrin-selenium (PS5+EGF+ITS). Culture medium influenced epithelial phenotype, with more than a 30-fold range in transepithelial electrical resistance (TEER), which plateaued by day 12. PS10 supported a balanced profile, characterized by intermediate TEER (2395.00 ± 485.51 Ω × cm2), lowest lactulose and mannitol permeability (p < 0.05), high lactate dehydrogenase activity (p < 0.05 vs. PS5+L-WRN and FBS10), enhanced membrane localization of tight junction proteins (p < 0.05 vs. PS5+EGF+ITS), and reduced fibroblast marker S100A4 (p < 0.05 vs. PS5+EGF+ITS). Treatment with digested infant milk formula did not compromise barrier integrity in PS10-cultured IPEC-J2 monolayers and enabled transport of free amino acids to the basolateral compartment. These findings support IPEC-J2 as an alternative to Caco-2 cells for applications in infant nutrition research in vitro.© 2026 The Author(s). Molecular Nutrition & Food Research published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Retinoic acid, acting through RAR/RXR nuclear receptors, is required for neuronal differentiation in Xenopus laevis. Bexarotene, characterised as a pan-RXR agonist, reduces the symptoms of Alzheimer's disease in mouse models by clearing amyloid plaque and by promoting neurogenesis. In this paper, we show that RXR-initiated bexarotene signalling generates additional neurons both during normal X. laevis development and in ectodermal explants in which bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signalling is inhibited. Differential gene expression analysis between ectodermal explants taken from uninjected embryos and from embryos co-injected with mRNA that expresses Noggin, a BMP antagonist, and RXRβ identifies genes mediating the transition from an epidermal to a neural fate. The explants express genes associated with an anterior neural fate, but not a neuronal fate. The addition of bexarotene to equivalent co-injected explants activates genes that promote neuronal differentiation and posterior character, including genes of the canonical Wnt signalling pathway. Xenopus ectodermal explants therefore provide a simple and efficient tool to identify novel retinoid agonists that promote neuronal differentiation. The genes expressed in response to bexarotene are consistent with a pathway to neuronal differentiation allied to standard retinoid signalling.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Most rabbit embryonic stem (rbES) cell lines established in embryonic fibroblast feeder layer systems predominantly exhibit pluripotency features restricted to a "primed" state, which hinders their directed differentiation into reproductive germ cells and limits their capacity for germline transmission.We developed a novel 3C system containing IWP2, DZNep, and TSA in iFLY medium supplemented with basic fibroblast growth factor, human leukemia inhibitory factor, and Noggin. Pluripotency maintenance and germline differentiation were validated by gene expression analysis and induction with BMP4, stem cell factor, and epidermal growth factor.The 3C system efficiently maintained the pluripotency of rbES cells with stable expression of core pluripotent genes. These cells showed upregulated expression of partial naïve markers and expressed formative pluripotent markers. Moreover, 3C cultured rbES cells were successfully differentiated into primordial germ cell like cells (PGCLCs).The 3C culture system confers rbES cells with naïve pluripotency and self renewal ability, as well as strong potential for directed germ cell differentiation. This system provides a reliable stem cell platform for genetic modification and breeding in livestock.Copyright © 2026 Chen, Liu, Li, Ullah, Gao, Wang, Liu and Du.
Studies on hearing loss indicate that the regulation of signaling pathways (including Notch, Wnt, FGF and BMP) can induce the regeneration of mammalian hair cells. As one of the potential vectors of gene therapy, adenovirus is hoped to resolve non-genetic hearing loss for its high transfection rate to supporting cells. The role of adenovirus-mediated regulation of the Notch, FGF, and BMP signaling pathways in hair cell regeneration warrants further investigation.We employed adenoviruses to selectively inhibit the Notch (Notch1-RNAi-AD) or FGF (FGFR3-RNAi-AD) signaling pathways individually, as well as to simultaneously inhibit both Notch and BMP signaling pathways (Notch1-Noggin-AD).Show that inhibiting the Notch pathway significantly increased the number of hair cells through transdifferentiation, which occurred at the expense of supporting cell loss. Following the inhibition of FGF signaling pathway, a small amount of cell proliferation was observed in the sensory epithelium in the apex of the cochlea. In contrast, after infection with Notch1-RNAi-AD and FGFR3-RNAi-AD, the number of hair cells increased significantly, and transdifferentiation and supporting cells proliferation also increased simultaneously in the cochlea. Finally, simultaneous infection of Notch1-Noggin-AD and FGFR3-RNAi-AD further increased the number of hair cells from transdifferentiation and proliferation.Here, we used adenoviruses to regulate the activity of signaling pathways to induce the regeneration of cochlear hair cells in neonatal mice explants and achieved some expected results. Our study suggests that regulation of the FGF signaling pathway induces the proliferation of supporting cells, which is different from transdifferentiation by Notch inhibition, and the co-regulation of the Notch, FGF and BMP signaling pathways can promote more significant hair cell regeneration from supporting cell proliferation, followed by transdifferentiation, and avoid the large loss of supporting cells.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Noggin is a glycosylated protein that acts as an antagonist of bone morphogenetic proteins and has been implicated in astrogliosis and functional recovery after spinal cord injury (SCI). Although Noggin is known to regulate astrocytic responses, its role in reactive astrogliosis and glial scar formation after SCI remains unclear. Under normal conditions, Noggin is expressed in astrocytes in the white matter of the mouse spinal cord. In this study, we investigated the role of Noggin in reactive astrogliosis and glial scar formation after SCI.We first examined the expression pattern of Noggin in the mouse spinal cord after SCI. To assess the functional role of Noggin, we used Nestin-Cre; Nogginflox/flox conditional knockout mice, in which Noggin is conditionally deleted from astrocytes and neurons in the spinal cord. In addition, neutralizing anti-Noggin antibodies were continuously administered to the lesion site using micro-osmotic pumps. GFAP expression and motor function after SCI were then evaluated.As a result, we found that Noggin was upregulated in reactive astrocytes after SCI, suggesting its involvement in the injury response. Conditional deletion of Noggin markedly suppressed glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) expression after SCI. Consistently, local administration of neutralizing anti-Noggin antibodies also reduced GFAP expression around the lesion site. However, anti-Noggin antibody treatment deteriorated motor function after SCI.These findings suggest that Noggin is an important regulator of reactive astrogliosis and contributes to glial scar formation after SCI. Although suppression of Noggin reduced GFAP expression and attenuated glial scar formation, it did not improve functional recovery. Rather, motor function was worsened, indicating that reduced glial scar formation may not necessarily be beneficial after SCI. Noggin-mediated astrogliosis may therefore play a protective role in the injured spinal cord.Copyright © 2026 Han, Wakayama, Li, Liang, Li, Ping, Arima, Sato, Matsuyama and Yamagishi.
Corneal neovascularization (CNV) and corneal lymphangiogenesis (CL) disrupt corneal immune privilege after injury and drive transplant rejection. This study investigated how the bone morphogenetic protein 4 (BMP4)-Smad pathway regulates both vascular arms of the corneal wound response. Bioinformatic analysis of a rat corneal suture-injury dataset showed that sustained injury induced a coordinated inflammatory, angiogenic, lymphangiogenic, and BMP/TGFβ-Smad transcriptional program, with predicted SMAD5-binding motifs in vascular- and lymphatic-related gene promoters. In vitro, BMP4 inhibited the proliferation and migration of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) and human lymphatic endothelial cells (HLEC) and downregulated CD31, VEGFA, LYVE-1, and VEGFC, whereas the BMP antagonist Noggin reversed these effects. BMP4 increased phosphorylated Smad1/5/8 (p-Smad1/5/8) and promoted its nuclear translocation, confirming canonical pathway activation. In a rat corneal suture model, BMP4 reduced inflammatory-cell infiltration and suppressed CNV and CL, as demonstrated by slit-lamp examination, lineage-resolved CD31/CD45 and LYVE-1/Prox1 co-staining, transmission electron microscopy, and molecular assays; Noggin antagonized each effect. BMP4 further activated corneal p-Smad1/5/8 signaling and induced endogenous BMP4 expression in a Noggin-sensitive manner, suggesting a self-amplifying loop. Together, these findings indicate that BMP4 coordinately restrains the vascular and lymphatic arms of the corneal immune response through canonical BMP4-Smad1/5/8 signaling and may help preserve corneal immune privilege during injury repair.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Obesity is a growing global health burden with rising incidence. Red ginseng (RGS), a traditional processed ginseng product, shows potential for improving metabolic parameters, though its anti-obesity mechanism remains incompletely understood.This study investigated the therapeutic effects of short-term RGS administration on obesity and sought to elucidate the underlying mechanism.A high-fat diet (HFD)-induced obese mouse model was used to assess short-term RGS effects. Antibiotic treatment and fecal microbiota transplantation were performed to evaluate gut microbiota involvement. 16S rRNA sequencing and metagenomic analysis identified key bacterial species, and mass spectrometry-based proteomics identified A. muciniphila-derived proteins. The growth differentiation factor 15 (GDF15)-GFRAL axis was interrogated using Gfral‒/‒ mice.Short-term RGS treatment suppressed appetite, reduced body weight, and elevated circulating GDF15 in diet-induced obese (DIO) mice. RGS enriched A. muciniphila, and its depletion abrogated RGS-mediated weight loss and appetite suppression. The A. muciniphila-derived protein Amuc_1631 was identified as a key effector promoting GDF15 secretion. Mechanistically, RGS upregulated colonic Gdf15 transcription via the PERK-eIF2α-ATF4-CHOP axis and activated the brainstem GDF15-GFRAL pathway. The RGS 50% ethanol eluate (RGS/50) fraction was identified as the potential active component responsible for A. muciniphila enrichment and GDF15 elevation.This study identifies a gut microbiota-dependent mechanism underlying the anti-obesity effects of RGS, centered on A. muciniphila enrichment and its derived protein Amuc_1631, which promotes GDF15 secretion to suppress food intake via the GDF15-GFRAL axis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Risk stratification after transcatheter tricuspid edge-to-edge repair (T-TEER) remains challenging, particularly in patients with advanced right-sided heart failure and systemic disease burden. Biomarkers reflecting inflammation, stress response and multiorgan dysfunction may provide additional prognostic information in this setting.This prospective single-centre cohort study included 84 consecutive patients undergoing T-TEER for severe tricuspid regurgitation using the TriClip or PASCAL system. Baseline concentrations of growth differentiation factor-15 (GDF-15), soluble urokinase plasminogen activator receptor (suPAR), and NT-proBNP were measured prior to intervention. The primary endpoint was all-cause mortality at 12 months. Secondary endpoints included cardiovascular rehospitalisation and a combined cardiovascular endpoint. Prognostic performance was assessed using receiver operating characteristic and tertile-based Kaplan-Meier analyses. Owing to the limited number of events, all analyses were considered exploratory.During 12-month follow-up, all-cause mortality occurred in 10 patients (11.9%), while cardiovascular rehospitalisation was observed in 29 patients (34.5%). GDF-15 demonstrated good discriminative performance for all-cause mortality (AUC 0.823, 95% CI 0.714-0.932, p = 0.001), whereas suPAR showed moderate prognostic discrimination (AUC 0.742, 95% CI 0.605-0.878, p = 0.013). In contrast, NT-proBNP showed no significant discrimination for all-cause mortality (AUC 0.535, 95% CI 0.362-0.709, p = 0.720). Higher tertiles of both GDF-15 and suPAR were associated with reduced overall and rehospitalisation-free survival.Baseline GDF-15 and suPAR were associated with adverse outcomes after T-TEER and demonstrated greater prognostic discrimination than NT-proBNP in this exploratory cohort. These exploratory findings support further investigation of systemic stress and inflammation biomarkers for risk stratification in patients with severe tricuspid regurgitation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Sarcopenia is an age-related skeletal muscle disorder characterized by progressive decline in muscle mass, strength, and physical performance, leading to frailty, disability, falls, and increased mortality. Although its pathogenesis is multifactorial, growing evidence indicates that vitamin B complex deficiency contributes to muscle deterioration through interconnected metabolic and signaling pathways. This narrative review summarizes current evidence regarding the roles of B vitamins in skeletal muscle biology and their potential contribution to sarcopenia. Vitamin B deficiency impairs mitochondrial energy metabolism by reducing cofactor availability and adenosine triphosphate production, thereby increasing oxidative stress and chronic inflammation. These disturbances may trigger endoplasmic reticulum stress and the integrated stress response, leading to activating transcription factor 4 (ATF4)-dependent induction of growth differentiation factor 15 (GDF15) and fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21) expression. Collectively, these changes disrupt protein homeostasis, suppress anabolic signaling, impair neuromuscular function, and alter myokine secretion by reducing anabolic mediators while increasing catabolic and inflammatory myokines, thereby accelerating muscle loss and functional decline. Current evidence is the strongest for vitamins B6, B9, and B12, whereas mechanistic and clinical data for B2, B3, B5, and B7 remain limited. Overall, vitamin B deficiency can be viewed as a modifiable biological contributor to sarcopenia. Well-designed prospective studies and randomized clinical trials are required to clarify causality, validate biomarkers, and determine whether targeted vitamin B supplementation can enhance exercise- and nutrition-based strategies for preserving muscle health in older adults.
Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) is a complex and increasingly prevalent cardiovascular disorder with limited effective therapeutic options. Dysregulation of cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) signaling has been implicated in its pathophysiology. Phosphodiesterase 9A (PDE9A), a cGMP-specific enzyme, has emerged as a potential therapeutic target due to its role in nitric oxide-independent signaling pathways associated with myocardial dysfunction.This study employed an integrated computational framework combining multi-conformational docking, pharmacophore modeling, pharmacophore validation using active-decoy screening, molecular dynamics simulations, and systems-level analyses to identify potential PDE9A inhibitors. Three crystal structures of PDE9A (4GH6, 4Y87, and 6LZZ) were analyzed for physicochemical properties, structural validation, and binding site prediction. Pharmacophore-guided virtual screening of PubChem-derived compounds was followed by active-decoy validation, ADMET evaluation, molecular docking, redocking validation, protein-ligand interaction analysis, and 500 ns molecular dynamics simulations.Several compounds demonstrated favorable binding affinities and pharmacokinetic profiles. Among them, EVPMO-PurHD exhibited the strongest binding affinity (- 10.1 kcal/mol) and suggested stable interaction behavior during the equilibrated phase of the simulation, following an initial conformational adjustment period, as indicated by RMSD stabilization and sustained intermolecular interaction.The findings indicate that the identified compounds represent promising computationally predicted candidates for PDE9A inhibition, supported by favorable binding affinity, stability, and pharmacokinetic profiles. However, further experimental validation through biochemical and in vitro/in vivo studies is required to confirm their therapeutic potential.© 2026. The Author(s).
Osteocytes are the primary mechano-sensitive cell type in bone. Mechanical loading is sensed across the dendritic projections of osteocytes leading to transient reductions in focal adhesion kinase (FAK) activity. We performed tyrosine-focused phospho-proteomic profiling in osteocyte-like Ocy454 cells to identify FAK substrates. Gsα, parathyroid hormone receptor (PTH1R), and phosphodiesterase 8A (PDE8A), three proteins associated with cAMP signaling, were found as potential FAK targets. FAK pharmacologic inhibition or gene deletion increased basal and G-protein-coupled-receptor (GPCR) ligand-stimulated cAMP levels and downstream signaling events. PDE8A inhibition mimicked FAK inhibition at the levels of increased cAMP, protein kinase A (PKA) activity, and expression of cAMP-regulated target genes. Co-immunoprecipitation assays revealed an intracellular association between FAK and PDE8A. Thus, mechanically regulated FAK can modulate intracellular cAMP levels via effects on PDE8A. These data suggest a signal transduction mechanism that mediates crosstalk between mechanical and cAMP-linked hormonal signaling in osteocytes.© 2026 The Author(s).
Colon adenocarcinoma (COAD) remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide. Although programmed cell death (PCD) and RNA N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification have each been shown to regulate tumor progression and therapeutic responses, their combined prognostic significance in COAD has not been fully elucidated. The present study aimed to develop an integrated m6A-PCD prognostic model and to identify potential therapeutic targets in COAD. In total, 1,379 genes across 14 PCD-related pathways were systematically analyzed and a 21-gene m6A-PCD signature (MCDI) was constructed following multivariate Cox regression analysis. Single-cell RNA sequencing from publicly available datasets (GSE132465 and GSE205506), together with reverse transcription-quantitative PCR (qPCR) validation using clinical samples, were employed to identify genes with tumor-specific expression patterns. The functional role of serine/threonine kinase 25 (STK25) was further investigated through knockdown experiments, flow cytometry, m6A methylated RNA immunoprecipitation (MeRIP)-qPCR and RIP assays. In addition, small interfering RNAs targeting methyltransferase-like 3 (METTL3) and YTH domain-containing protein 1 (YTHDC1) were used to evaluate the involvement of m6A modification in STK25 mRNA stability and apoptosis regulation. The resulting MCDI signature demonstrated robust and independent prognostic value and effectively predicted differential responses to programmed death-ligand 1 immunotherapy. In total, 5 core genes [microRNA 210, STK25, TGFB2, tripartite motif containing (TRIM)6 and TRIM68] were identified as key prognostic markers. STK25 was specifically upregulated in tumor epithelial cells, and its knockdown significantly promoted apoptosis in COAD cells. Correlation analyses revealed positive associations between STK25 expression and multiple m6A regulators, with METTL3 and YTHDC1 showing the highest targeting credibility. Knockdown of METTL3 or YTHDC1 reduced STK25 mRNA levels. RIP assays confirmed their direct binding to STK25 mRNA, while MeRIP-qPCR demonstrated that METTL3 knockdown decreased the m6A modification level of STK25 mRNA. In conclusion, the reconstructed MCDI was established as a novel m6A-PCD-based prognostic model for patient stratification and the prediction of immunotherapy response in patients with COAD. STK25 was also identified as a potential therapeutic target linking m6A modification to the regulation of apoptosis in COAD.Copyright: © 2026 Yu et al.
Endothelial dysfunction is an early event in atherosclerosis development and is centrally linked with insufficient endothelial NO production. However, chronically increased NO levels, including NO from other cellular sources, may induce endothelial dysfunction. Here, we studied how chronically elevated NO production from erythrocytes, achieved by genetic deletion of ARG1 (arginase-1), impacts smooth muscle cell (SMC) lipid accumulation and atherosclerosis progression.Primary aortic SMCs from mice lacking ARG1 in red blood cell (RBC.ARG1-knockout [KO]) were subjected to RNA-sequencing, lipidomic, metabolic, and molecular analyses; atherosclerosis burden was quantified en face and at the aortic root.Increased lipid droplet formation in SMCs from RBC.ARG1-KO mice was observed using brightfield and electron microscopy and confirmed by Oil Red O and boron-dipyrromethene lipid dye staining. RNA sequencing revealed the simultaneous overexpression of genes regulating lipid uptake (Cd36), catabolism (Cpt1a), and de novo lipogenesis (Acaca, Fasn [Fatty acid synthase]) in RBC.ARG1-KO SMCs, and inhibiting fatty acid translocase (CD36), ACC (acetyl-CoA [coenzyme A] carboxylase), or fatty acid synthase prevented the lipid accumulation in RBC.ARG1-KO SMCs. Increased expression of CD36 downstream of NO and overactivated sGC (soluble guanylyl cyclase)-cyclic guanosine monophosphate signaling was identified as a mediator of increased lipid uptake in RBC.ARG1-KO SMCs. Loss of PDE (phosphodiesterase) 2A, coupling cyclic guanosine monophosphate with cyclic adenosine monophosphate and PKA (protein kinase A) activation, was also observed, resulting in AMPK (5' AMP-activated protein kinase) inhibition, thus unlocking acetyl-CoA carboxylase, catalyzing the rate-limiting step in fatty acid synthesis. Inhibiting PDE2A recapitulated the RBC.ARG1-KO SMC phenotype, while inhibiting PKA or ATP generation from cyclic adenosine monophosphate abrogated the lipid droplet accumulation in RBC.ARG1-KO SMCs. Increased Oil Red O-positive aortic atherosclerosis burden in hypercholesterolemic apolipoprotein E-deficient RBC.ARG1-KO mice was confirmed by histology and elevated levels of polyunsaturated long-chain cholesterol esters in aortic atheroma by mass spectrometry lipidomics.Our findings show the importance of erythrocyte-derived NO for metabolically reprogramming SMCs toward increased fatty acid uptake and lipogenesis, and identify PDE2A as a molecular switch linking chronically activated NO signaling with lipid accumulation and atheroma progression.
Diabetic cardiomyopathy (DCM) results in high mortality with surprisingly rare therapeutic approaches. Anacardic acid (AA) shows broad pharmacological properties, but its effect on DCM was unknown. This study aims to investigate the effect and molecular action of AA on DCM. KKAy mice, a model of spontaneous type 2 diabetes, were fed a high-fat diet, and were subsequently administered with AA by gavage at 5 mg/kg for 14 weeks. AA attenuated cardiac dysfunction, pathological injuries, inflammation, fibrosis, oxidative stress, and apoptosis. Mechanistically, AA was enriched in the colon, but not serum and heart, improving colonic histopathological scores, enhancing colonic tight junction protein expression and reducing serum lipopolysaccharide level, suggesting colonic epithelial barrier integrity (CEBI) as a key target of AA. In vitro experiment employed high glucose and palmitic acid-challenged colonic epithelial cells as a cell model of CEBI, showing that AA at 5 µmol/L reversed the impaired expression of tight junction proteins. RNA-sequencing identified Pde2a gene to be significantly inhibited by AA. Lentivirus-induced Pde2a overexpression in colonic epithelial cells abolished the protective effect of AA on CEBI. The present study reports that AA enhances CEBI to attenuate DCM, possibly through inhibiting colonic epithelial expression of Pde2a.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Paeoniae Radix Alba Carbonisata (PRAC), carbonized decoction pieces of the traditional Chinese medicine Paeoniae Radix Alba, has been used in clinical practice for hepatoprotective purposes. Hepatic amyloidosis (HA), a severe complication of systemic AA amyloidosis, is characterized by the deposition of fibrillar amyloid proteins leading to progressive hepatic dysfunction. However, its role in HA remains unclear. Amyloid lysozyme (LYSO-6) was used to induce the NCTC1469 cell injury model and the HA mouse model. The effects of PRAC extract (PRAC-E) on liver injury were then evaluated using biochemical assays, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), Congo red (CR) staining, Hematoxylin and Eosin (H&E) staining, and immunohistochemical staining. Liver transcriptomics combined with Western blotting was used to analyze the expression levels of key proteins in the cGMP/PKG/ATP2A1 signaling axis. UHPLC-Q-Exactive Orbitrap MS combined with network pharmacology was used to characterize the chemical components of PRAC-E and identify its core active constituents against HA. Quantitative analysis of core components was performed by UHPLC-QTRAP-MS/MS. Molecular docking predicted the binding stability of core components and key targets. The results showed that PRAC-E significantly alleviated HA. Collectively, PRAC-E restored calcium pump activity, corrected calcium homeostasis imbalance, reduced inflammatory factor levels, regulated Phosphodiesterase 5A (PDE5A), and activated the cGMP/PKG/ATP2A1 signaling axis. The main components of PRAC-E were phenolic acids, terpenoids, and flavonoids. Among these, six core components (SCCs) related to HA were Gallate (16.96 mg/g), Paeoniflorin (14.27 mg/g), Albiflorin (7.20 mg/g), Benzoyl paeoniflorin (5.33 mg/g), Methyl gallate (0.78 mg/g), and Catechin (0.09 mg/g). Molecular docking analysis demonstrated that SCCs formed stable complexes (∆G ≤ -6.2 kcal/mol) with ATP2A1.
Aortic dissection (AD) is a life-threatening condition and involves pathological vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) phenotypic switching from a contractile to a synthetic state. Although exercise confers broad cardiovascular benefits, its role in AD pathogenesis remains unclear. This study aimed to determine whether exercise attenuates AD by modulating VSMC phenotype and to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanism.Human aortic tissues from AD patients were analyzed for VSMC phenotypic markers and PDE5A (phosphodiesterase 5A) expression. A β-aminopropionitrile induced AD model was established in wild-type mice with or without treadmill exercise intervention. RNA sequencing, gain- and loss-of-function experiments, and mechanistic assays were employed to investigate the roles of PDE5A and its transcriptional regulator RUNX1 (runt-related transcription factor 1).In human AD lesional tissues, contractile VSMC markers (MYH11 [myosin heavy chain 11], CNN1 [calponin 1], and α-SMA [alpha-smooth muscle actin]) were significantly downregulated, whereas the synthetic marker osteopontin was upregulated. In β-aminopropionitrile-induced AD mice, exercise improved survival, reduced aortic dilation and AD incidence, and preserved the contractile VSMC phenotype. RNA-seq analysis identified PDE5A as a key exercise-responsive gene. PDE5A expression was reduced in human AD lesional tissues and β-aminopropionitrile-treated mice but was upregulated by exercise. VSMC-specific overexpression of PDE5A attenuated AD progression, whereas PDE5A inhibition abolished the attenuating effects of exercise. We further identified RUNX1 as a transcriptional repressor of PDE5A that is upregulated in AD conditions and suppressed by exercise. Inhibition of RUNX1 upregulated PDE5A expression, preserved VSMC contractility, and reduced AD incidence.In conclusion, we identify a novel RUNX1-PDE5A axis that mediates the beneficial effects of exercise against AD. Exercise attenuates AD by reducing RUNX1-mediated transcriptional repression of PDE5A, thereby maintaining VSMC contractile phenotype. These findings highlight the RUNX1-PDE5A pathway as a promising preventive target.
New therapeutic strategies for heart failure are urgently needed. The protective effects of cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP)-protein kinase G (PKG) pathway on heart have been widely reported. Despite phosphodiesterase 9A (PDE9A) inhibitors combating cardiac remodeling, clinically available drugs are lacking. Hederagenin (HED) is a natural bioactive compound that possesses a wide range of pharmacological activities. However, the role of HED in cardiac remodeling and its underlying mechanisms remains elusive. This study aimed to investigate the effects of HED on cardiac remodeling and its molecular targets.Through models of cells, zebrafish and mice, we investigated the effects of HED on cardiac hypertrophic response. In mice subjected to ISO-induced hypertrophy, HED was administered orally at doses of 1.25, 2.5, and 5 mg/kg once daily for 3 weeks. HuProt v4.0 20K Human Proteome Microarray was used to identify the molecular target of HED, followed by validation using surface plasmon resonance (SPR), molecular docking, and site-directed mutagenesis.HED attenuated hypertrophy and fibrotic responses in vitro and in vivo. Proteome microarrays identified PDE9A as the molecular target of HED. HED directly bound to PDE9A through hydrogen bonds of Asp 293, and inhibited its activity. Functional tests demonstrated that the protective effects of HED were mediated by targeting PDE9A and then activating cGMP-PKG signaling. Overexpression of PDE9A abolished the protective effect of HED on cardiac remodeling and the activation of the cGMP-PKG pathway.Our study suggested that HED, as a novel PDE9A inhibitor, ameliorated cardiac hypertrophic response by activating the cGMP-PKG signaling pathway, presenting a potential therapeutic strategy for heart failure.© 2026 The Author(s). Phytotherapy Research published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Sepsis-associated inflammation compromises the blood-brain barrier (BBB), yet the endothelial microRNA circuitry that buffers barrier failure remains poorly defined. Here we identify endothelial miR-7052 as a stress-suppressed regulator of BBB integrity. In human and murine brain microvascular endothelium, lipopolysaccharide (LPS) reduces mature miR-7052 via a VEGFR2-JNK signaling arm. Loss of miR-7052 de-represses ANGPT2 and PDE5A, attenuates Tie2 signaling, and perturbs cGMP homeostasis, yielding disrupted junctional continuity, reduced transendothelial electrical resistance (TEER), and increased macromolecular flux. Restoring miR-7052 increases TEER, lowers 4- and 70-kDa tracer permeability, and preserves ZO-1/claudin-5 organization. Mechanistically, dual-luciferase reporters confirm direct repression of ANGPT2 and PDE5A; prime-editing of endogenous 3'UTR seed sites abolishes miR-7052 control and eliminates miR-dependent changes in transcript half-life. Epistasis tests position both targets downstream: recombinant ANGPT2 partially reverses miR-7052-mediated protection, whereas pharmacological PDE5 inhibition phenocopies barrier stabilization. In vivo, endothelial-specific AAV9 delivery of miR-7052 limits LPS-evoked BBB leakage and reduces microvessel ANGPT2 with concordant reinforcement of BBB transcripts. Together, these data establish miR-7052 as a nodal controller coupling inflammatory receptor input to multi-target suppression of permeability drivers, nominating miR-7052 replacement and combinatorial targeting of the ANGPT2/Tie2 and PDE5A/cGMP axes as therapeutic strategies to preserve the BBB in sepsis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Phosphodiesterase 2A (PDE2A) plays a vital role in regulating cyclic nucleotide signaling by hydrolyzing cAMP and cGMP in the central nervous system (CNS). This enzymatic activity is essential for neuronal function, and PDE2A has emerged as a molecular target for neuroimaging in neuropsychiatric disorders and neurodegenerative diseases. In this study, we evaluated the novel 11C-labeled positron emission tomography (PET) radioligand [11C]1 derived from a pyrazolopyrimidine-based PDE2A inhibitor. The radiosynthesis of [11C]1 was accomplished via [11C]-methyl iodide-mediated methylation of precursor 9 under mild conditions, yielding [11C]1 with high purity (99%) and high molar activity (154 ± 66 GBq/μmol). In vitro autoradiography demonstrated high radiotracer accumulation in regions with abundant PDE2A expression, including the striatum and substantia nigra. However, dynamic PET imaging in rats showed a relatively uniform distribution throughout the brain and no significant blocking effects. Further optimization in medicinal chemistry is necessary to improve the in vivo performance of the pyrazolopyrimidine-based PDE2A tracer scaffold.© 2025 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), a malignancy of the digestive system, presents limited therapeutic options at advanced stages. In this context, inhibitors of cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase 4 (PDE4) have emerged as promising novel agents for patients with advanced HCC. We synthesized a potent PDE4A inhibitor, designated as MG5b, derived from the natural bioactive compound alpha-mangostin, and evaluated its antitumor efficacy in HCC. To assess the impact of MG5b on the proliferation of HCC cells, we conducted MTT and colony formation assays. Flow cytometry was utilized to analyze cell cycle progression, apoptosis, and mitochondrial membrane potential in HCC cells. Intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels were quantified using a DCF-DA probe. Network pharmacology was employed to predict the associated signaling pathways. Furthermore, Western blotting and immunohistochemistry were utilized to determine the effects of MG5b on protein expression levels. The antitumor efficacy of MG5b was further evaluated in Huh7 xenograft models. MG5b demonstrated a significant inhibitory effect on the proliferation, migration, and invasion of HCC cells, induced cell cycle arrest at the G0/G1 phase, and promoted apoptosis. Mechanistically, MG5b activated the cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) induced protein kinase A (PKA) signaling pathway, resulting in increased intracellular ROS production and the subsequent suppression of the EGFR-PI3K-AKT pathway. In vivo studies indicated that MG5b markedly inhibited tumor growth while exhibiting minimal toxicity. These findings suggest that MG5b may function as a novel PDE4A inhibitor and hold potential as a promising drug candidate for the treatment of advanced HCC.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Background: Inherited retinal dystrophies are a heterogeneous group of progressive disorders impacting photoreceptor function, often limiting the usefulness of standard electroretinography in advanced cases. Full-field stimulus test (FST) testing has become a sensitive psychophysical technique for detecting residual visual function when traditional electrophysiology is non-recordable. This study evaluated the ability of chromatic FST to differentiate rod-cone from cone photoreceptor dysfunction in patients with genetically confirmed inherited retinal dystrophies. Methods: Cross-sectional FST data were analyzed from 39 patients (mean age 45.7 ± 20.0 years) with genetically confirmed inherited retinal dystrophies at a tertiary academic center. All participants underwent standardized FST testing using white, red, and blue stimuli. Patients were classified into rod-cone dystrophy (n = 27) or cone dystrophy (n = 12) groups based on genetic and clinical criteria. Group comparisons focused on FST thresholds and especially blue-red threshold differences as markers of photoreceptor-mediated function. Bonferroni correction was applied to adjust for multiple comparisons across four primary FST parameters. Additional analyses by genotype were performed with nonparametric tests. Results: Eight different genetic mutations were represented, including Phosphodiesterase 6A (PDE6A) (n = 10), Rhodopsin (RHO) (n = 7), Phosphodiesterase 6B (PDE6B) (n = 6), Cyclic Nucleotide-Gated Channel Beta 1 (CNGB1) (n = 4), Cyclic Nucleotide-Gated Channel Alpha 3 (CNGA3) (n = 4), Nuclear Receptor Subfamily 2 Group E Member 3 (NR2E3) (n = 4), Guanylate Cyclase 2D (GUCY2D) (n = 2), and Cyclic Nucleotide-Gated Channel Beta 3 (CNGB3) (n = 2). Blue-red FST threshold differences exhibited moderate group discrimination in uncorrected analysis, with rod-cone dystrophies averaging -8.35 ± 10.37 dB and cone dystrophies -11.20 ± 14.60 dB. The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve for blue-red difference was 0.74 (95% CI: 0.59-0.90), with 75% sensitivity and 70.4% specificity at a -10 dB cutoff. However, no chromatic FST parameter maintained statistical significance between groups after Bonferroni correction. Inter-eye FST correlation was high (r = 0.758, p < 0.001), supporting test reliability. Conclusions: Chromatic FST testing provides a practical and sensitive means to assess photoreceptor function in advanced inherited retinal dystrophies, particularly when standard electrophysiologic methods are uninformative. Although the blue-red threshold difference offers moderate discrimination between rod-cone and cone dystrophies in uncorrected analysis, no chromatic parameter reached statistical significance after adjustment for multiple testing. Chromatic FST should be considered a supplementary approach for clinical monitoring and therapeutic studies in advanced retinal dystrophies, with further validation needed in larger cohorts.
Cordyceps sinensis (CS) is a fungus that parasitizes the larvae and corpses of Batmadaceae insects. CS is used as a traditional Chinese medicine and has shown promising clinical efficacy in the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). This study aimed to identify potential targets of CS in the treatment of COPD and to analyse the related biological processes and signalling pathways.Through the use of network pharmacological tools, Gene Ontology (GO), and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analyses, as well as corroborating data from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) and the literature, potential targets for CS treatment of COPD were identified and analysed.These results suggest that CS alleviates COPD symptoms with key biomarkers such as interleukins (ILs), tumour necrosis factor (TNF), and reactive oxygen species (ROS). The primary active constituents of CS comprise Cordycepin, D-mannitol, Ergosterol, Cordyceps polysaccharides, and others. During the pathogenesis of COPD, CS exerts modulates effects on various proteins and signalling pathways, influencing gene expression patterns such as poly ADP-ribose polymerase 1 (PARP1), phosphodiesterase 4A (PDE4A), phosphodiesterase 4B (PDE4B), phosphodiesterase 4C (PDE4C), phosphodiesterase 4D (PDE4D), prostaglandin D2 receptor 2 (PTGDR2), heme oxygenase 1 (HMOX1), and matrix metallopeptidase 1 (MMP1).CS alleviates COPD symptoms by suppressing inflammation, apoptosis, and oxidative stress, suggesting novel therapeutic strategies.© 2025 The Author(s). Immunity, Inflammation and Disease published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Rationale: Although nontuberculous mycobacteria (NTM) are widespread, only some individuals develop NTM pulmonary disease (NTM-PD), suggesting the involvement of host factors. Objectives: To identify the genomic structure of NTM-PD and determine whether a definitive association exists between NTM-PD and nine risk factors. Methods: We performed genome-wide association studies in two independent Korean cohorts involving 1,949 patients with NTM-PD and 2,955 healthy participants. Significantly associated genetic variants were validated in Japanese (1,137 cases, 1,546 controls) and European (243 cases, 570 controls) cohorts, respectively. Genes associated with lead variants were identified and their roles in NTM-PD were supported by single-cell transcriptome datasets. Genetic correlations and Mendelian randomization between NTM-PD and nine risk factors were examined. Measurements and Main Results: We identified two novel loci and replicated a locus associated with NTM-PD: rs60084385 (odds ratio [OR], 1.34; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.21-1.48; P = 6.97 × 10-9), rs1479595 (OR, 1.40; 95% CI, 1.27-1.55; P = 7.08 × 10-11), and rs194792 (OR, 1.70; 95% CI, 1.50-1.93; P = 1.39 × 10-16). These associations were replicated in the independent cohorts. The three loci were significantly associated with expression of IL1Rs, PDE8B (phosphodiesterase 8B), and PRKCB (protein kinase C β), respectively, whose involvement in the pathogenesis of NTM-PD was further validated. Among the risk factors, only body mass index demonstrated both a significant genetic correlation with NTM-PD (rg, -0.57; false discovery rate, 1.33 × 10-5) and a potential causal relationship (OR, 0.38; 95% CI, 0.24-0.59; false discovery rate, 8.55 × 10-5). Conclusions: Our study identified three genetic loci associated with NTM-PD and a negative association of body mass index with NTM-PD.
Neuronal injury is a common event in the development of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Previous studies have suggested that circular RNAs (circRNAs) are involved in neuronal injury in the pathological progression of AD. However, the potential role of circ_0049472 in the AD process is still unclear. Amyloid-β (Aβ)-treated SK-N-SH and CHP212 cells were used as the cell model of AD in vitro. The expression of circ_0049472, miR-22-3p, and phosphodiesterase 4A (PDE4A) was measured by quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR). Cell viability, proliferation, and apoptosis were estimated by Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) assay, 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU) assay, and flow cytometry assay. Proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), B-cell lymphoma-2 (bcl-2), Bcl-2 related X protein (bax), cleaved-caspase 3, PDE4A, and Postsynaptic protein-95 (PSD-95) were determined using western blot. Interleukin-1β (IL-1β), IL-6, and tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α) levels were analyzed using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). JC-1 assay was utilized to evaluate mitochondrial function. Binding between miR-22-3p and circPLAR1 or PDE4A was predicted and verified using dual-luciferase reporter assay or RNA Immunoprecipitation (RIP) assay. Circ_0049472 and PDE4A were overexpressed in Aβ-treated SK-N-SH and CHP212 cells, and miR-22-3p was reduced. Knockdown of circ_0049472 might abolish Aβ-mediated proliferation inhibition and the promotion of apoptosis and inflammation, mitochondrial dysfunction in SK-N-SH and CHP212 cells. Mechanistically, circ_0049472 is competitively bound to miR-22-3p to elevate its target PDE4A. Circ_0049472 knockdown alleviated Aβ-induced SK-N-SH and CHP212 cell dysfunctions via targeting the miR-22-3p/PDE4A axis, suggesting that circ_0049472 knockdown might protect from neuronal injury in AD.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40291020 is a review article
Hypothyroidism is the most prevalent thyroid disorder and leads to adverse effects on the human body. Serum thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) values have been related to polymorphisms in multiple genes that may be involved in the regulation of thyroid function. The single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) rs2046045 is situated in the intron region of the phosphodiesterase 8B (PDE8B) gene, which encodes a high-affinity cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP)-specific phosphodiesterase widely expressed in thyroid tissue. The principal goal of the present study was to investigate the association between the SNP rs2046045 of the PDE8B gene and hypothyroidism. The study was designed as a case-control study, and a total of 160 hypothyroid and 160 healthy controls were involved. Blood samples were drawn from each individual, and deoxyribonuleic acid (DNA) was separated with a suitable DNA isolation kit. For genotyping, the polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) technique was employed. The IBM Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS) 25.0 was utilized to analyze the statistical data. Age differences between the patients and controls were not observed in the present study. The genotype frequency of homozygous wild type (TT), homozygous mutate type (GG), and heterozygous (GT) was 45%, 2.5%, and 52.5%, respectively, in control subjects and 27.5%, 11.25%, and 61.25%, respectively, in cases, and showed a significant difference (p = 0.0002). The minor G allele frequency is elevated in hypothyroid patients as compared to healthy control subjects (41.87% vs. 28.75%), p = 0.0005. The presence of the mutant allele G of rs2046045 in the PDE8B gene correlates with elevated serum TSH levels in hypothyroid patients.© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Ginsenoside Rg1 (Rg1) has been shown to treat a variety of human diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, its mechanism in AD needs further investigation. Microglial cells (BV2) were treated with Aβ1-42 to induce AD cell models. Cell viability and apoptosis were tested by cell counting kit 8 assay and flow cytometry. The protein levels of GATA-binding protein 4 (GATA4), phosphodiesterase 4A (PDE4A), autophagy-related markers, M1/M2 polarization-related markers and PI3K/AKT-related markers were detected by western blot. Inflammation factors were detected by ELISA. Jaspar and dual-luciferase reporter assay were used to evaluate the interaction between GATA4 and PDE4A. Our results showed that Rg1 promoted viability and autophagy, while suppressed apoptosis and inflammation in Aβ1-42-induced BV2 cells. Rg1 reduced GATA4 protein expression, and GATA4 upregulation reversed the regulation of Rg1 on Aβ1-42-induced BV2 cell injury. GATA4 interacted with PDE4A, and GATA4 facilitated Aβ1-42-induced BV2 cell injury by increasing PDE4A expression. Besides, GATA4 knockdown reduced PDE4A protein expression and inactivated PI3K/AKT axis, while these effects were abolished by PDE4A overexpression. In conclusion, our data suggested that Ginsenoside Rg1 inhibited microglial cell apoptosis and inflammation to attenuate AD progression by regulating the GATA4/PDE4A/PI3K/AKT axis.Copyright © 2024 International Brain Research Organization (IBRO). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Inherited retinal diseases (IRDs) are major causes of vision loss and often associated with the degeneration of retinal neurons, such as photoreceptors. Adeno-associated virus (AAV) vectors hold therapeutic potential for IRDs; however, their off-target expression has prompted the development of refined engineering strategies to enhance cell-type preference without compromising transgene expression. Here, we present G5mP, a streamlined 315-bp synthetic promoter-enhancer construct designed for robust retinal gene expression. G5mP integrates three components: G5, a G protein-coupled receptor kinase 1-derived enhancer; mP, a minimal promoter from phosphodiesterase 6B; and a 5'-untranslated region (UTR) derived from retinoschisin 1 (RS1). Compared with the clinically used 742-bp RIR cassette-comprising the RS1 promoter, interphotoreceptor retinoid-binding protein enhancer, and RS1-derived 5'-UTR-G5mP drove stronger overall retinal expression and showed enhanced activity within photoreceptor cells in retinal cell lines, human retinal organoids, and mouse retina without inducing detectable cytotoxicity in vivo. Notably, across retinal cell lines, human retinal organoids, and mouse retina, G5mP induced more robust and distinct photoreceptor-preferential transgene expression than the ubiquitous CAG promoter did. These results highlight its potential as a compact and efficient regulatory element suitable for AAV-mediated gene delivery across retinal cell types, including the effective targeting of photoreceptors.© 2026 The Author(s).
Photoreceptor degeneration in Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is the most prevalent cause of inherited legal blindness, for which effective visual restoration treatments are still missing. Injectable prosthetic strategies represent a promising tool for vision restoration. We demonstrated that injectable poly(3-hexylthiophene) nanoparticles (P3HT-NPs) promote a sustained visual restoration in Royal College of Surgeons rats, an RP model harboring a mutation that impairs the phagocytic activity of the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) and microglia, leading to progressive and combined rod/cone degeneration. However, it is unclear whether the efficacy of P3HT-NPs in this model is enhanced by the impairment of RPE and microglial phagocytosis, and thus whether this prosthetic intervention will also be effective in more typical forms of RP that primarily affect rods. Here, we evaluated the efficacy of P3HT-NPs in the pigmented retinal degeneration 10 (rd10) mouse, which carries a recessive missense mutation in the rod phosphodiesterase-6B gene, while retaining a morphologically and functionally intact RPE. We demonstrate that, in this mouse model of RP, P3HT-NPs restore visually driven responses at both subcortical and cortical levels at the end stage of photoreceptor degeneration. Although partial phagocytosis of P3HT-NPs by the RPE occurs, the P3HT-NPs remaining in the outer retina were sufficient to mediate a significant recovery of visual function characterized by complex light-dependent reactivation of the primary visual cortex and formation of implicit visual memories. These results demonstrate that healthy RPE and microglial activities do not compromise the efficacy of the injectable nanotherapeutic strategy, underscoring the clinical potential of P3HT-NPs for visual restoration in late-stage retinal degeneration, which closely mimics the conditions of RP patients undergoing prosthetic interventions.© 2026. The Author(s).
Photoreceptor death leads to inherited blinding retinal diseases, such as retinitis pigmentosa (RP). As disease progression often outpaces therapeutic advances, developing effective treatments is urgent. This study evaluates the efficacy of small peptides derived from pigment epithelium-derived factor (PEDF), which are known to restrict common cell death pathways associated with retinal diseases.We tested chemically synthesized peptides (17-mer and H105A) with affinity for the PEDF receptor, PEDF-R, delivered as eye drops to two RP mouse models: rd10 (phosphodiesterase 6b mutation) and RhoP23H/+ (rhodopsin P23H mutation). Additionally, we engineered AAV-H105A vectors for intravitreal delivery in RhoP23H/+ mice. To assess peptide effects in human tissue, we used retinal organoids exposed to cigarette smoke extract, a model of oxidative stress. Photoreceptor survival, morphology and function were evaluated.Here we show that peptides 17-mer and H105A delivered via eye drops successfully reach the retina, promote photoreceptor survival, and improve retinal function in both RP mouse models. Intravitreal delivery of a AAV-H105A vector delays photoreceptor degeneration in RhoP23H/+ mice up to six months. In human retinal organoids, peptide H105A specifically prevents photoreceptor death induced by oxidative stress, a contributing factor to RP progression.PEDF peptide-based eye drops offer a promising, minimally invasive therapy to prevent photoreceptor degeneration in retinal disorders, with a favorable safety profile.© 2025. This is a U.S. Government work and not under copyright protection in the US; foreign copyright protection may apply.
During the early growth stages of fish larvae, there are significant challenges to their viability, so improving their visual environment is essential to promoting their growth and survival. Following the successful knockout of thyroid hormone receptor beta 2 (thrb2) using Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats (CRISPR)/Cas9 technology, there was an increase in the expression of UV opsin (short-wave-sensitive 1, sws1), while the expression of other cone opsins was significantly decreased. Further analysis of the retinal structure demonstrated that the thrb2 knockout resulted in an increased lens thickness and a decreased thickness of the ganglion cell layer (GCL), outer plexiform layer (OPL), and outer nuclear layer (ONL) in the retina. The slowing down of swimming speed under light conditions in thrb2-/- may be related to the decreased expression of phototransduction-related genes such as G protein-coupled receptor kinase 7a (grk7a), G protein-coupled receptor kinase 7b (grk7b), and phosphodiesterase 6c (pde6c). Notably, thrb2-/- larvae exhibited a significant increase in the amount and proportion of first feeding, and their growth rate significantly exceeded that of wild-type controls during the week after feeding. This observation suggests that although the development of the retina may be somewhat affected, thrb2-/- larvae show positive changes in feeding behaviour and growth rate, which may be related to their enhanced ability to adapt to their environment. These results provide novel insights into the function of the thrb2 gene in the visual system and behaviour and may have implications in areas such as fish farming and genetic improvement.
Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is characterized by degeneration of rod and cone photoreceptors that progresses to irreversible blindness. Now, there are no mutation-agnostic approaches to treat RP. Here, we utilized a single adeno-associated virus (AAV)-based CRISPR activation system to activate phosphodiesterase 6B (Pde6b) to mitigate the severe degeneration in Pde6anmf363 mice. We demonstrate that transcriptional activation of Pde6b can rescue the loss of Pde6a, with preservation of retinal structure, restoration of electroretinography responses, and improvement of visual function as assessed by optokinetic response and looming-induced escape behaviors. These findings demonstrate the therapeutic potential of a dCasMINI-mediated activation strategy that provides a mutation-independent treatment for retinal degeneration. This study offers a promising therapeutic approach for RP and potentially other forms of genetic diseases.
Free fatty acid receptor 4 (Ffar4) is a receptor for long-chain fatty acids that attenuates heart failure driven by increased afterload. Recent findings suggest that Ffar4 prevents ischemic injury in brain, liver, and kidney, and therefore, we hypothesized that Ffar4 would also attenuate cardiac ischemic injury.Using a mouse model of ischemia-reperfusion (I/R), we found that mice with systemic deletion of Ffar4 (Ffar4KO) demonstrated impaired recovery of left ventricular systolic function post-I/R with no effect on initial infarct size. To identify potential mechanistic explanations for the cardioprotective effects of Ffar4, we performed bulk RNAseq to compare the transcriptomes from wild-type (WT) and Ffar4KO infarcted myocardium 3-days post-I/R. In the Ffar4KO infarcted myocardium, gene ontology (GO) analyses revealed augmentation of glycosaminoglycan synthesis, neutrophil activation, cadherin binding, extracellular matrix, rho signaling, and oxylipin synthesis, but impaired glycolytic and fatty acid metabolism, cardiac repolarization, and phosphodiesterase activity. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis indicated impaired AMPK signaling and augmented cellular senescence in the Ffar4KO infarcted myocardium. Interestingly, phosphodiesterase 6c (PDE6c), which degrades cGMP, was the most upregulated gene in the Ffar4KO heart. Further, the soluble guanylyl cyclase stimulator, vericiguat, failed to increase cGMP in Ffar4KO cardiac myocytes, suggesting increased phosphodiesterase activity. Finally, cardiac myocyte-specific overexpression of Ffar4 prevented systolic dysfunction post-I/R, defining a cardioprotective role of Ffa4 in cardiac myocytes.Our results demonstrate that Ffar4 in cardiac myocytes attenuates systolic dysfunction post-I/R, potentially by attenuating oxidative stress, preserving mitochondrial function, and modulation of cGMP signaling.
In CBA/J and C3H/HeJ mice, retinitis pigmentosa is inherited as an autosomal-recessive trait due to a mutation in Pde6b, which encodes cGMP phosphodiesterase subunit b. In these strains, the Y347X mutation in Pde6b leads to the upregulation of cGMP levels, increased Ca2+ influx induces rod death, and the outer segment and rod cells entirely disappeared by 35 days after birth. In the present study, we utilized the clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeat (CRISPR)/CRISPR-associated (Cas) 9-mediated gene editing to repair the Y347X mutation in CBA/J and C3H/HeJ mice. Evaluation of the established CBA/J-Pde6bY347Y/Y347X and C3H/HeJ-Pde6bY347Y/Y347X mice, which were confirmed to have normal retinal layers by live fundoscopic imaging and histopathological analysis, revealed improved visual acuity based on the visual cliff and light/dark latency tests. Furthermore, our analyses revealed that the visible platform test was a more effective tool for testing visual behavior in these mice. The results suggest that the established strains can serve as control groups for CBA/J and C3H/HeJ in ophthalmology studies involving retinitis pigmentosa.
Mutations in the phosphodiesterase 6B (PDE6B) gene are a rare cause of autosomal recessive retinitis pigmentosa (arRP). We report on a non-consanguineous family with a pseudodominant inheritance of RP due to PDE6B mutations. We conducted a chart review of four members of a Puerto Rican family who underwent a comprehensive ophthalmic evaluation by at least one of the authors. The mutational screening was done using a genotyping microarray provided by Invitae Corporation, using next-generation sequencing (NGS) technology. Genomic DNA obtained from saliva samples is enriched for targeted regions using a hybridization-based protocol and sequenced using Illumina technology. A descriptive analysis was done. Patient 1A had a normal ophthalmic examination and a heterozygous pathogenic variant in the PDE6B gene c.1540del PLeu514Trpfs*61. Patients 1B, 2A, and 2B had mid-peripheral retinitis pigmentosa, concentric visual field ring scotomata in both eyes (OU), extinguished electroretinogram (ERG), and homozygous pathogenic variants in the PDE6B gene c.1540del PLeu514Trpfs*61. Even though mutations in the PDE6B gene usually lead to arRP, they may be inherited in a pseudodominant pattern in geographically isolated populations. Genotyping studies in patients with RP are warranted to classify inheritance mode correctly.Copyright © 2023, Robles Bocanegra et al.
Nerandomilast, a preferential phosphodiesterase 4B inhibitor, is approved for idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and progressive pulmonary fibrosis in some countries. The objective of this study was to evaluate the safety and pharmacokinetics of nerandomilast in healthy volunteers through single- and multiple-rising-dose studies, and a human mass balance study evaluating absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion.Healthy participants received oral nerandomilast doses ranging from 0.02 mg to 24 mg in the single-rising-dose trial, 1 mg or 6 mg twice daily for 14 days in the multiple-rising-dose trial, and a single oral dose of 18 mg [14C]-labeled nerandomilast in the mass balance trial. In each trial, pharmacokinetic blood samples were collected for determination of nerandomilast plasma concentrations. In the mass balance study, urine, feces, and blood samples were collected, and [14C]-radioactivity was quantified from these matrices. All pharmacokinetic parameters were calculated via noncompartmental analysis.Nerandomilast was rapidly absorbed postadministration, with peak plasma concentrations occurring between 0.5 and 1.25 h postdose before declining in a multiphasic manner. Nerandomilast exposure increased dose proportionally following single- and multiple-dose administrations. Steady state was reached by day 7 after twice-daily dosing with up to 1.69-fold drug accumulation. Following a single oral dose administration of [14C]nerandomilast, 58.0% and 36.4% of radioactivity was excreted in feces and urine, respectively. Of the administered dose, 11.9% was excreted as unchanged parent compound in urine. Nerandomilast safety was acceptable across all three studies and nerandomilast was well tolerated in healthy participants.Nerandomilast exhibited rapid oral absorption, multiphasic elimination profile, dose-proportional exposure, and was excreted via urine and feces.NCT01594515 (registered 2012-05-07), NCT01835899 (registered 2013-04-11), and NCT04771286 (registered 2021-02-23).© 2026. The Author(s).
Over the last 34 years, the Eilat Conference on New Antiepileptic Drugs and Devices has provided an interactive forum for stakeholders to discuss investigational and recently licensed treatments for seizures and epilepsy. The Eighteenth Eilat Conference on New Antiepileptic Drugs and Devices (EILAT XVIII) took place in Madrid, Spain, on May 3-6, 2026. This article provides summaries of eight treatments in preclinical and early clinical development that were presented at EILAT XVIII. These include AUT00206, a positive allosteric modulator of Kv3.1 and Kv3.2 voltage-gated potassium channels in development for the treatment of rare epilepsy syndromes as well as neurodevelopmental and neuropsychiatric disorders; ION283, an antisense oligonucleotide designed to suppress the expression of glycogen synthase 1, under investigation for the treatment of Lafora disease; MSCA-7136, a selective allosteric RAS/mitogen-activated protein kinase-extracellular signal regulated kinase (MEK) inhibitor being developed for the treatment of focal seizures associated with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy and seizures associated with tuberous sclerosis complex; OV329, a selective inhibitor of γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) aminotransferase, in development for the treatment of drug-resistant focal seizures; PTI5803 (probenecid), an uricosuric agent and a blocker of pannexin 1 channels, repurposed as a treatment for seizures associated with focal cortical dysplasia; simufilam, a filamin A modulator under investigation for the treatment of tuberous sclerosis complex-related epilepsy; SN-2000, a selective allosteric phosphodiesterase 4B inhibitor, in development for the treatment of focal seizures; and sodium selenate, a promoter of the dephosphorylation of pathological hyperphosphorylated tau in the brain, under investigation as a disease-modifying agent in mesial temporal lobe epilepsy. Treatments in more advanced clinical development are discussed in an accompanying article.© 2026 The Author(s). Epilepsia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International League Against Epilepsy.
Caffeine, which is widely present in various medications and food products, has been epidemiologically associated with fetal growth restriction (FGR). Hydroxysteroid 11-beta dehydrogenase 2 (HSD11B2) is a key placental enzyme implicated in FGR induced by adverse prenatal exposures. This study investigates the regulation of placental HSD11B2 and explores potential modifiable mechanisms. Our findings demonstrated that environmentally relevant concentrations of caffeine inhibits the cyclic adenosine monophosphate/protein kinase A (cAMP/PKA) signaling pathway, leading to decreased specificity protein 1 (SP1) expression and increased early growth response factor 1 (EGR1) expression. These changes altered histone modifications in the HSD11B2 promoter (lower H3K9ac, higher H3K9me2), and decreased intracellular cortisol. Cortisol were observed to inhibit HSD11B2 expression. Under combined exposure, however, cortisol attenuated caffeine-induced inhibition of the cAMP/PKA/HSD11B2 pathway. This effect involved upregulation of the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) and miR-26a-5p and downregulation of phosphodiesterase 4B (PDE4B), thus modulating the SP1/HSD11B2 axis. Finally, oral administration of roflumilast (a PDE4 inhibitor) to mice with prenatal caffeine exposure restored fetal body weight and improved placental cAMP/PKA/SP1/HSD11B2 pathway activity. This study provides theoretical and experimental evidence for the self-regulatory function of the placental glucocorticoid barrier and suggests PDE4B-associated HSD11B2 regulation as a potential mechanistic target for FGR intervention.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) and other progressive pulmonary fibrosis (PPF) forms are associated with significant morbidity and mortality. Pirfenidone and nintedanib are the currently approved antifibrotic drugs in Germany. Based on the positive results of both Phase-3 trials FIBRONEER-IPF and FIBRONEER-ILD, the phosphodiesterase-4B inhibitor nerandomilast was approved in 2025 for the treatment of IPF in USA, but not yet in Germany.We performed a comparative analysis of the results of phase 3 randomized clinical trials of pirfenidone, nintedanib and nerandomilast regarding patient characteristics, efficacy and safety.Eight phase 3 trials were included: 3 with pirfenidone, 3 with nintedanib, und 2 with nerandomilast. The characteristics of the trials' populations showed substantial differences. In terms of the primary endpoint reduction of FVC decline over one year, all the three compounds demonstrated similar efficacy. Secondary endpoints across the trials were heterogeneous, and no positive efficacy for patient-reported outcomes was observed for any of the three drugs. The best tolerability and safety profile was demonstrated for nerandomilast.In the near future, nerandomilast could become the third available antifibrotic drug in Germany for the treatment of IPF and PPF, showing a similar efficacy profile to pirfenidone and nintedanib, with a better tolerability. The different trials populations should be considered when comparing the clinical trials results. New guidelines are mandatory to unravel the role of nerandomilast in the treatment algorithm of IPF and PPF.Thieme. All rights reserved.
Colorectal cancer is one of the most prevalent cancers worldwide, and novel precision medicine approaches are rapidly improving patient outcomes. Phosphodiesterase 4B (PDE4B) is a member of an enzyme family (PDE4) that hydrolyses intracellular cAMP to control spatial and temporal signalling cues. The PDE4B family, particularly PDE4B shortforms, has been implicated in the progression of colorectal cancer and has emerged as a novel drug target. However, clinically available PDE4 inhibitors are limited therapeutically by their active site-directed action, which lacks subfamily selectivity, resulting in a broad range of adverse effects. Targeted protein degradation may provide a novel strategy for designing more potent and selective PDE4B blockers.A novel proteolysis-targeting chimaera (PROTAC) was studied to determine the effect of PDE4B shortform degradation on several hallmarks of cancer in the KRAS-mutant cell line HCT116.We developed a novel PROTAC, KTX207, which selectively degrades PDE4B shortforms in HCT116 cells. KTX207 significantly increased cAMP levels and decreased PDE4 activity in HCT116 cells, relative to the effects of a small-molecule PDE4 inhibitor at the same concentration. Furthermore, KTX207 decraesed cell migration and invasion, replicative immortality and angiogenic potential of HCT116 cells.This research showed that the selective degradation of PDE4B shortform significantly improved attenuation of certain hallmarks of cultured colorectal cancer models. This novel therapeutic approach has greater potential than existing PDE4 inhibitors, as the potency/selectivity we engineered into the PDE4 PROTAC may eliminate side-effects exhibited by conventional PDE4 inhibitors.© 2026 The Author(s). British Journal of Pharmacology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of British Pharmacological Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42276742 is a review article
Chronic low-grade inflammation has been identified as the etiology of disease across the life span; however, the underlying genetic mechanism are poorly understood, and no genetic association study is performed. Here, we quantified chronic low-grade inflammation using the low-grade inflammation score (INFLA-score) and performed a genome-wide association study in a large European cohort of 217,984 individuals, involving 6,134,151 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). We identified 20,182 SNPs at 194 loci reaching genome-wide significance (p < 5 × 10-8), with the lead SNP rs429358 in apolipoprotein E (APOE) showing an extremely low p-value of 8.69 × 10-166. Gene analysis found 470 genes with p < 2.70 × 10-6 (0.05/18,519), among which phosphodiesterase 4B was most significant (p = 1.67 × 10-22). Among those, 15 SNPs were first reported, including GS1-259H13.10, AC068533.7, AL355490.1, and so on. Tissue expression analysis revealed significant links between genetic variants and chronic low-grade inflammation in spleen and whole blood. Our findings identify variants linked to chronic low-grade inflammation and related inflammatory and cellular regulation traits, and suggest a close association between chronic low-grade inflammation and the spleen.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42145068 is a review article
Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a chronic inflammatory skin disease involving complex immune pathways. Natural compounds derived from Aloe vera are attracting increasing attention for their potential in the treatment of dermatological disorders.A virtual screening of 110 A. vera-derived phytoconstituents was performed against three key protein targets implicated in AD: interleukin-4 receptor alpha, Janus kinase 1, and phosphodiesterase 4D. The top-ranked compounds were further assessed using absorption, distribution, metabolism, excretion, and toxicity (ADMET) properties to evaluate drug-likeness and safety profiles. Molecular dynamics (MD) simulations over 100 ns were conducted to examine the structural stability of the selected ligand-protein complexes.Quercetin and kaempferol showed the highest binding affinities across all three targets. ADMET analysis confirmed their favorable pharmacokinetic and safety profiles. MD simulations revealed stable and compact protein-ligand interactions, supporting their potential as multitarget inhibitors of AD.Quercetin and kaempferol from A. vera emerge as promising multitarget lead candidates for AD treatment, particularly for topical therapeutic applications. These findings warrant further in vitro and in vivo validation to support their potential clinical translation.© 2026 Institute of Bioorganic Chemistry, Polish Academy of Sciences.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42381622 is a review article
Can oocyte maturation be adapted to a phenotypic assay within a drug screening pipeline to identify compounds that block meiotic progression for female non-hormonal contraceptive drug discovery?A complex phenotypic assay of mouse oocyte maturation identifies potent compounds that reversibly block meiotic progression at specific stages.During oocyte maturation, prophase I-arrested oocytes resume meiosis, undergo germinal vesicle (GV) breakdown, and complete meiosis I with extrusion of the first polar body. Oocyte maturation is critical for generating a fertilizable gamete, and thus, blocking meiotic progression is a promising target for non-hormonal contraception. Moreover, this process can be recapitulated in vitro, providing a powerful phenotypic assay for drug screening.Oocytes were collected from CD-1 mice following hyperstimulation and in vitro matured for 14-16 h in the presence of a single dose (10 µM) of compounds from a bioactive compound library. Incubation in dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) only or 10 µM milrinone, a known phosphodiesterase 3A (PDE3A) inhibitor, was used as vehicle and positive control, respectively. Primary screening and subsequent concentration-response testing were performed in duplicate.Oocytes were incubated with compounds during IVM to identify compounds with inhibitory effects on meiotic progression. We were specifically interested in compounds that maintained arrest at prophase of meiosis I (GV-intact) or prevented extrusion of the first polar body. Brightfield images were taken before and after IVM to assess maturation status based on morphological criteria. Using this platform, we screened a subset of 818 compounds from the compound library based on annotated target and structural diversity. A hit was defined as a compound that inhibited meiotic progression by ≥80%. Hits were validated through an independent source of compound and concentration responsiveness. Hit compounds were also tested in a prolonged culture treatment to confirm maintenance of meiotic arrest. A counterscreen assay was performed on compounds that maintained arrest at prophase of meiosis I to rule out phenotypes due to inhibition of PDE3A activity.From our primary screen, 29 hits were identified that blocked meiotic maturation. Following hit validation via independent sources and concentration-response, 18 compounds were confirmed. Five compounds resulted in arrest at prophase of meiosis I, but only one was not based on PDE3A inhibition. Thirteen compounds enabled resumption of meiosis but not polar body extrusion, and 12 of these maintained arrest during prolonged culture. Thus, using this screening pipeline, we identified a total of 13 compounds for an overall confirmed hit rate of 1.6%. Using this phenotypic assay, we also compared the activity of structural analogs, enabling the establishment of preliminary structure-activity relationships. Additionally, washout of compound-treated oocytes allowed for normal meiotic resumption in 33% and 50% of oocytes arrested at GV and GV breakdown stages, respectively, demonstrating the potential for reversibility.N/A.Although this screening platform can identify potent compounds, their protein targets and potential mechanisms of action are unknown. As such, further studies are required to deconvolute targets and generate more specific compounds. Given that our phenotypic oocyte screening assay is based on the mouse model, validation using human oocytes will also be necessary for translational consideration. Lastly, all experiments were conducted on denuded oocytes and do not account for activity within an intact cumulus-oocyte complex.Through our screening pipeline, we identified compounds that potently inhibit meiotic progression. Beyond furthering our understanding of oocyte maturation, we highlight potent compounds as promising starting points toward novel drug candidates or in novel target identification for female non-hormonal contraception.This work was supported by the Gates Foundation [INV-003385]. Under the grant conditions of the Foundation, a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 Generic License has already been assigned to the Author Accepted Manuscript version that might arise from this submission. The authors have no conflict of interest to disclose.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology.
Ambra1, a key regulator of protein homeostasis, controls both autophagy and ubiquitin-mediated proteasomal degradation. Although Ambra1 is implicated in metabolic regulation, its role in adipose tissue homeostasis remains unclear. In this study, Ambra1 conditional knockout mice exhibited impaired fasting-induced weight loss in white adipose tissue. Ambra1-deficient adipocytes exhibited defective lipolysis, accompanied by impaired translocation of adipose triglyceride lipase (ATGL), the rate-limiting lipolytic enzyme, to the surface of lipid droplets. However, ATGL translocation was restored by the inhibition of phosphodiesterase 3B, which antagonizes lipolysis by reducing protein kinase A activity. Collectively, these findings suggest that Ambra1 plays an important role in fasting-induced lipolysis via phosphodiesterase 3B-mediated ATGL control.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Cardiac ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury is a major contributor to morbidity following myocardial infarction. While PDE4D has been implicated in cerebral I/R injury, its role and regulatory mechanisms in the cardiac context remain unclear.PDE4D expression was analyzed using quantitative polymerase chain reaction and Western blot. Apoptosis was assessed by TUNEL staining, flow cytometry, and detection of caspase-3, Bax, and Bcl-2 levels. N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification of PDE4D was examined via methylated RNA immunoprecipitation, luciferase reporter assays, and RNA stability measurements. The interaction between IGF2BP1 and PDE4D was confirmed by RNA immunoprecipitation.PDE4D was significantly upregulated in I/R-injured myocardium and in H9c2 cardiomyocytes subjected to hypoxia/reoxygenation. Knockdown of PDE4D reduced infarct size, suppressed apoptosis, and improved cell viability. METTL14 mediated m6A methylation at 2 conserved sites within PDE4D mRNA, thereby enhancing its RNA stability. Silencing METTL14 decreased PDE4D expression and reduced its transcript stability. IGF2BP1 recognized m6A-modified PDE4D and promoted its RNA stability; ablation of IGF2BP1 abolished the effects of METTL14. Overexpression of PDE4D reversed the cardioprotective effects resulting from METTL14 silencing.METTL14 stabilizes PDE4D mRNA through m6A methylation, which is recognized by IGF2BP1, thereby exacerbating cardiac I/R injury.Copyright © 2026. The Korean Society of Cardiology.
Canine oral cancers are difficult to manage due to complex biology and a lack of non-invasive biomarkers. Proteomic approaches, particularly gel-based liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (GeLC-MS/MS), have been used on tissue and saliva, but serum remains obscure despite its clinical accessibility and ability to reflect systemic disease.This study evaluated GeLC-MS/MS for serum proteomic profiling in canine oral malignancies, compared to benign and healthy conditions.We analysed 62 serum samples from dogs with oral melanoma (OM, n = 28), oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC, n = 10), benign tumours (BN, n = 12) and controls (healthy/periodontitis, n = 12) using GeLC-MS/MS-based proteomics.Significant protein expression differences emerged across groups. In OM and OSCC, phosphodiesterase 4D (PDE4D) was upregulated, while ornithine decarboxylase antizyme 3 (OAZ3), centriolar coiled-coil protein 110 (CCP110), non-specific serine/threonine protein kinase 8 (NEK8), receptor-type tyrosine-protein phosphatase F (PTPRF) and interleukin 23 receptor (IL23R) were downregulated. These proteins are linked to critical pathways, including insulin signalling, insulin resistance, adherens junctions and cell cycle regulation, highlighting their roles in cancer progression and showing potential interactions with common chemotherapy drugs like doxorubicin, cisplatin and cyclophosphamide.This study demonstrates that GeLC-MS/MS-based serum proteomics can successfully identify candidate biomarkers for canine oral malignancies. The discovery of these protein signatures represents promising diagnostic and prognostic targets, with the potential to guide chemotherapeutic selection and improve clinical outcomes in dogs with oral cancer.© 2026 The Author(s). Veterinary Medicine and Science published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Ischemic stroke is a leading cause of neurological disability and death worldwide, and effective therapeutic agents targeting cerebral ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury remain urgently needed. α-Mangostin, a xanthone derivative isolated from mangosteen fruit, possesses neuroprotective activity. This study aimed to explore the neuroprotective effect of α-mangostin on oxygen-glucose deprivation and reperfusion (OGD/R)-stimulated human brain microvascular endothelial cells (hBMECs). Cell viability, apoptosis, and reactive oxygen species (ROS) content were evaluated by CCK-8 assay, flow cytometry, and ROS assay kit, respectively. Expression of phosphodiesterase 4D (PDE4D) was detected by qRT-PCR and western blot analysis. α-Mangostin targets were retrieved from SwissTargetPrediction and SEA databases and ischemic stroke-related targets were obtained from DisGeNet and GeneCards databases. A Venn diagram was used to identify overlapping targets. Targets of PDE4D in ischemic stroke were predicted using CTD database and subjected to KEGG pathway analysis. The changes in the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway were examined by western blot analysis. Results showed that α-mangostin alleviated OGD/R-induced viability reduction and apoptosis in hBMECs. Moreover, α-mangostin abolished OGD/R-triggered inflammatory response and ROS generation in hBMECs. PDE4D was identified as the only intersecting target of α-mangostin against ischemic stroke. α-Mangostin inhibited PDE4D expression and PDE4D overexpression reversed the effects of α-mangostin on OGD/R-induced injury in hBMECs. KEGG analysis showed that targets of PDE4D were enriched in MAPK pathway. α-Mangostin inactivated the MAPK pathway by downregulating PDE4D expression. In conclusion, α-mangostin attenuates OGD/R-induced injury in hBMECs through inhibiting the MAPK pathway by downregulating PDE4D expression. These findings provide an experimental basis for further research on α‑mangostin in cerebral ischemia/reperfusion injury.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Resistance of tumor cells to chemotherapy remains a critical obstacle to effective cancer treatment. Although paclitaxel is one of the most commonly used chemotherapeutic agents for treating triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), the mechanisms underlying paclitaxel resistance are not fully understood. We previously found that phosphodiesterase 1C (PDE1C) was substantially upregulated in a paclitaxel-resistant T50RN cell clone established from the human TNBC cell line MDA-MD-231. In this study, we aimed to explore whether and how PDE1C modulates resistance to paclitaxel in T50RN cells. Our results showed that depletion of PDE1C enhanced paclitaxel cytotoxicity, and that pharmacological inhibition of PDE1 potentiated paclitaxel-induced antiproliferative and antimitotic effects in T50RN cells. Additionally, intracellular cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) levels were lower in T50RN cells than in parental MDA-MB-231 cells. PDE1 inhibition restored the cAMP level, suggesting that cAMP-degrading activity of PDE1 is elevated in the T50RN cells. Similar to PDE1 inhibitors, the cell permeable cAMP analog 8‑bromo-cAMP or the adenylate cyclase activator forskolin increased cAMP levels and concurrently augmented paclitaxel-induced cytotoxicity and spindle abnormalities in T50RN cells. Furthermore, PDE1 inhibitors, forskolin, and an agonist of the cAMP downstream effector EPAC enhanced paclitaxel-mediated microtubule (MT) stabilization. Thus, PDE1 inhibition may act through cAMP/EPAC signaling to facilitate MT stabilization and potentiate the antiproliferative and antimitotic effects of paclitaxel in T50RN cells. Upon PDE1 inhibition, paclitaxel-treated T50RN cells exhibited signs of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and apoptosis. Together, our in vitro findings indicate that PDE1C overexpression contributes to paclitaxel resistance.© 2026 The Authors.
Epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) is a key driver of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), yet therapies specifically targeting epithelial cells remain limited. The role of phosphodiesterase 7A (PDE7A) in IPF and its mechanism in regulating EMT are still largely unknown. This study aims to investigate the anti-fibrotic effect of BRL-50481, focusing on its target PDE7A and the associated molecular mechanism in regulating epithelial cell fibrosis and EMT. BRL-50481 was identified as a top candidate compound targeting pathogenic alveolar epithelial cells through bioinformatic screening. Its efficacy was evaluated in both a bleomycin-induced murine pulmonary fibrosis model and a TGF-β-induced A549 cell model. Drug-target interaction was characterized using molecular docking, cellular thermal shift assay (CETSA), and site-directed mutagenesis. Downstream signaling pathways were predicted via the TRRUST database and experimentally validated. PDE7A was found to be highly expressed in alveolar epithelial cells of IPF patients and mice. BRL-50481 directly bound to the ILE323 residue of PDE7A, specifically inhibiting JAK2/STAT3 signaling pathway activation. This inhibition suppressed EMT, inflammatory factor release, and collagen deposition, ultimately alleviating pulmonary fibrosis in both in vivo and in vitro models. PDE7A acts as a key upstream regulator driving JAK2/STAT3 signaling activation and the EMT process in alveolar epithelial cells. BRL-50481 exerts anti-fibrotic effects by precisely targeting this mechanism, providing novel insights into IPF pathogenesis and establishing a theoretical foundation for developing innovative therapies targeting PDE7A.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Osteoclastogenesis-associated transmembrane protein 1 (OSTM1) is a membrane-integral glycosylated protein known for regulating lysosomal homeostasis, with loss-of-function mutations causing autosomal recessive osteopetrosis. Through a whole-genome CRISPR/Cas9 screen, we identified OSTM1 as a critical tumor suppressor in B-cell malignancies. In humans, OSTM1 is frequently deleted or downregulated across a wide range of B-cell malignancies. In mice, B-cell-specific monoallelic or biallelic Ostm1 ablation cooperates with Cdkn2a loss to drive lymphomagenesis with near 100% penetrance. Mechanistically, we reveal that a cytosolic, non-glycosylated fraction of OSTM1 functions as an E3 ligase that targets phosphodiesterase 3B (PDE3B) for proteasomal degradation. Because PDE3B catalyzes the conversion of cAMP to AMP and thereby negatively regulating the cAMP-dependent PKA/CREB/CREBBP tumor suppressive pathway, the loss of OSTM1 leads to PDE3B stabilization and enhanced cell transformation. Our findings establish OSTM1 as a pivotal E3 ligase that prevents B-cell lymphomagenesis through the regulation of the cAMP/PKA/CREB pathway.
In a phase 2 trial (NCT04308681), treatment with admilparant (BMS-986278), an oral lysophosphatidic acid receptor 1 (LPA1) antagonist, reduced lung function decline in patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) or progressive pulmonary fibrosis (PPF). In this exploratory analysis, we evaluated post-treatment changes in circulating biomarkers of lung fibrosis to elucidate mechanisms of admilparant action.Patients with IPF or PPF were randomized 1:1:1 to receive twice-daily admilparant (30 or 60 mg) or placebo for 26 weeks; background antifibrotics were allowed. The IPF and PPF cohorts were analyzed separately. Changes from baseline (CfB) in serum proteins associated with epithelial injury, inflammation, and fibrosis were measured by quantitative immunoassays at 4, 12, and 26 weeks, and compared between patients who received admilparant versus placebo. Pharmacodynamic biomarker changes were evaluated by clinical response status at week 26. Plasma samples from patients with IPF were assessed post hoc by SomaScan v4.1 proteomics assay. Statistical evaluations used linear mixed-effects models.In the IPF cohort (n=276), nine serum proteins showed significant CfB (p<0.05) at week 26 in patients treated with 60-mg admilparant versus placebo, including increased adiponectin, MMIF, CD163, CEA, and ENRAGE, and decreased markers of epithelial injury and fibrosis (CA-125/MUC16, MMP-7, TN-C, PRO-FIB). In the PPF cohort (n=116), significant differences at week 26 (p<0.05) were observed for 11 serum proteins, including increased CEA and decreased periostin, IL6Rβ, CD163, KIM-1, multiple inflammatory markers (YKL-40, VCAM-1, PECAM-1, ferritin), and collagen degradation markers (C3M and C4M). Two serum proteins, CA-125 and TN-C, showed significantly greater CfB (p<0.05) in responders compared with non-responders in the IPF cohort. Plasma proteomic analysis identified differential expression (adjusted p<0.1) of adiponectin, CKMT1A, ANGPTL3, PDCD1LG2, and IGFBP6 at week 26 in patients with IPF treated with 60-mg admilparant versus placebo.Treatment with 60-mg admilparant improved circulating biomarkers associated with epithelial injury and fibrosis in IPF, and with inflammation, fibrosis, and collagen degradation in PPF. Proteomic analysis identified additional biomarkers associated with mitochondrial and metabolic pathways in IPF. These findings expand our understanding of potential mechanisms of LPA1 antagonism with admilparant and identify biomarkers that may help evaluate treatment response and disease activity.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42132000 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42094953 is a review article
We previously described the discovery of carbamate-derived small molecules as potent and selective lysophosphatidic acid receptor 1 (LPA1) antagonists. To further expand the library of LPA1 antagonists and potentially enhance their stability and potency, a urea moiety was introduced in replacement of the carbamate group and a series of LPA1 antagonists based on a urea scaffold were synthesized and evaluated. Within this series, several compounds exhibited potent LPA1 antagonism. Notably, compound 5f emerged as one of the most potent, with an IC50 of 215.2 nM in the cAMP assay and 7.9 nM in the calcium mobilization assay. Compound 5f demonstrated the ability to block LPA-induced cell migration and invasion in the triple-negative breast cancer cell line MDA-MB-231. These findings support further in vivo evaluation of compound 5f as a potential therapeutic agent targeting LPA1. The development of these urea-derived LPA1 antagonists in this study has expanded the repertoire of LPA1 antagonists and holds potential for the development of a novel therapy for metastatic triple-negative breast cancer.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41849980
Skipped: PubMed ID 41823810 is a review article
UFMylation plays an essential role in regulating intracellular physiological and pathological processes. Accumulating evidence has demonstrated that dysregulation of UFMylation is closely associated with the progression of various diseases, including cancers and developmental disorders. However, efficient and specific methods for detecting UFMylated substrate proteins remain challenging. In this study, we generated the UFM1-specific protease 1/2 knockout (UFSP1KO/UFSP2KO) human embryonic kidney 293T cell line and validated it as the most suitable cellular model for the screening, identification, and confirmation of UFMylated substrate proteins. Furthermore, exogenous expression of the E3 ligase components, UFM1-specific ligase 1 (UFL1) and DDRGK domain-containing protein 1 (DDRGK1), significantly enhanced protein UFMylation levels, enabling the large-scale enrichment of UFMylated substrates. Collectively, we have established a more efficient, specific, and reliable method for UFMylation substrate research, facilitating in-depth investigation into its biological functions and regulatory mechanisms.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Dysfunction of the neuronal macroautophagy/autophagy-lysosome system is a critical contributor to neuronal death following spinal cord injury (SCI), but the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. Our study demonstrated that SCI induced impaired autophagic flux and lysosomal membrane permeabilization (LMP) in neurons. By combining in vivo bulk RNA sequencing with validation experiments, we observed the transient upregulation of the membrane repair factor PI4K2A, which was specifically enriched in lysosomes, after SCI. Crucially, ER-MS and IP-MS analyses revealed an interaction between PI4K2A and the endoplasmic reticulum lipid transfer protein OSBPL6/ORP6. This interaction led to the transport of phosphatidylserine (PS) to damaged lysosomal membranes, promoting LMP repair and subsequently reducing lipid droplet accumulation, which suppressed neuronal death. Furthermore, overexpression of neuronal PI4K2A in vivo, through an OSBPL6- and PS-dependent mechanism, reduced LMP-mediated lipid droplet accumulation and increased neuronal survival, thereby improving functional recovery after SCI. Collectively, our findings establish the PI4K2A-OSBPL6/ORP6-PS axis as a novel and essential mechanism for lysosomal membrane repair in neurons. This pathway is crucial for maintaining neuronal lipid homeostasis and represents a promising therapeutic target for reducing neuronal loss and improving functional recovery after central nervous system trauma.Abbreviations: AIF1/IBA1: allograft inflammatory factor 1; Baf A1: bafilomycin A1; BMS: Basso Mouse Scale; CNS: central nervous system; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; DEGs: differentially expressed genes; DS5: DS55980254; ESCRT: endosomal sorting complex required for transport; GFP: green fluorescent protein; HSPA5/GRP78: heat shock protein family A (HSP70) member 5; HT22: hippocampal neuronal cell line; KEGG: Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes; LD: lipid droplet; LC-MS: liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; LGALS3/GAL3: lectin, galactoside binding, soluble 3; LLOMe: L-leucyl-L-leucine methyl ester; LMP: lysosomal membrane permeabilization; LPC: lysophosphatidylcholine; LPE: lysophosphatidylethanolamine; MFGE8/lactadherin: milk fat globule EGF and factor V/VIII domain containing; MS: mass spectrometry; NAGLU: alpha-N-acetylglucosaminidase (Sanfilippo disease IIIB); NEFH/NF200: neurofilament, heavy polypeptide; OSBPL6/ORP6: oxysterol binding protein-like 6; OSBPL8/ORP8: oxysterol binding protein-like 8; PC: phosphatidylcholine; PLA2G4A/cPLA2: phospholipase A2, group IVA (cytosolic, calcium dependent); PITT: phosphoinositide-initiated membrane tethering and lipid transport; PI4K2A: phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase type 2 alpha; PLS-DA: partial least squares discriminant analysis; PS: phosphatidylserine; PtdIns: phosphatidylinositol; PTDSS1: phosphatidylserine synthase 1; PUFAs: polyunsaturated fatty acids; RBFOX3/NeuN: RNA binding protein, fox-1 homolog (C. elegans) 3; ROS: reactive oxygen species; SCI: spinal cord injury; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TGs: triglycerides.
The Influenza A Virus (IAV) is known to hijack cellular proteins during its replication. IAV infection increases the expression of Heat-shock-protein family A (Hsp70) member 5 (HSPA5) in human cells, but its specific function in the viral life cycle remains unclear. This study aims to elucidate the function of HSPA5 in IAV replication, by implementing HSPA5 knockdown (KD) in A549 cells and assessing its impact on IAV's viral protein translation, genomic RNA transcription, and the host cellular proteome. HSPA5 KD significantly reduced progeny virus release, although viral RNA levels were unaffected. Interestingly, levels of viral structural proteins increased in HSPA5 KD cells after infection. Treatment with HSPA5 inhibitor also suppressed IAV replication, confirming its role as a host dependency factor. Proteomic profiling revealed 116 proteins altered in wild-type cells and 223 in HSPA5 KD cells, with 32 uniquely dysregulated in wild-type and 139 unique to HSPA5 KD cells. In HSPA5 knockdown cells, the altered proteins were linked to pathways such as EIF2, EGF, PEDF, CNTF, IL-13, and G-protein receptor signaling, as well as to cellular processes like lymphocyte activation and regulation of immune and blood cell death, which were not affected in wild-type cells after IAV infection. Overall, this study suggests that HSPA5 contributes to late stages of IAV replication, likely assembly or maturation, and represents a promising target for antiviral drug development.
UFMylation, a post-translational modification involving the covalent conjugation of ubiquitin-fold modifier 1 (UFM1) to target proteins, has been implicated in a wide spectrum of human diseases. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms are poorly understood. Herein, we demonstrate that UFM1-specific ligase 1 (UFL1), the sole ligase for UFMylation, is indispensable for ciliary homeostasis. Genetic ablation of UFL1 in mice results in severe defects in ciliary structure and function in multiple tissues. Mechanistic investigation reveals that intraflagellar transport 88 (IFT88), a protein essential for ciliary assembly and maintenance, undergoes UFMylation at lysine 572. The UFMylation antagonizes IFT88 ubiquitination by Praja ring finger ubiquitin ligase 2 (PJA2), thereby preventing its proteasomal degradation. The lysine 572-to-arginine mutant of IFT88 exhibits increased stability and efficacy in rescuing ciliary defects induced by UFL1 depletion. Our findings identify a critical role for IFT88 UFMylation in ciliary homeostasis and offer novel insights into human ciliopathies.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to ADMC Associazione Differenziamento e Morte Cellulare.
G protein subunit beta 2 (GNB2) is a potential biomarker identified recently in human cancers. However, the specific role and its underlying mechanism in breast cancer (BRCA) remain unclear. Expression levels of GNB2 were examined in human BRCA tissues and cells by real-time quantitative PCR (qPCR), immunohistochemistry (IHC) and Western blot. Biological functions of GNB2 were determined by a series of in vitro experiments (CCK-8, colony formation assay, Transwell and wound healing) and in vivo ones (subcutaneous transplantation tumor and pulmonary metastasis model). Mechanism of GNB2 in BRCA was explored by co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP), qPCR, Western blot, flow cytometry and some rescue experiments. Increased expression of GNB2 was found in BRCA, which indicated poorer clinical prognosis of the patients. The over-expression of GNB2 increased proliferation, migration of BRCA cells, while it decreased the intracellular contents of reactive oxygen species (ROS), Fe2+ and malondialdehyde (MDA). In addition, GNB2 over-expression increased the expression of heat-shock-protein family A(HSP70) member 5 (HSPA5) and the expression of glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4), which inhibited the cell death induced from Erastin. After knockdown of GNB2, all the above indicators were significantly reversed. Restored expression of HSPA5 in BRCA cells with GNB2 knockdown rescued the effects. Therefore, the current study verifies GNB2 as an important driver in BRCA progression by up-regulating HSPA5/GPX4 and inhibiting ferroptosis, which highlights its potential role in the clinical diagnosis and treatment of BRCA.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Identification of novel targets is critical for the effective management of HCC. UFMylation, a novel ubiquitin-like modification, plays an important role in various biological processes and disease progression. We found that WW domain binding protein 11 (WBP11) is enriched and predicts poor prognosis in HCC. Depletion of WBP11 inhibits the malignancy of HCC cells in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, the N-terminal of WBP11 interacts with the RNA recognition motif (RRM) domain of Non-POU-domain-containing octamer-binding protein (NONO) and enhances glycolysis in HCC cells. WBP11 maintains protein stability of NONO by competitively inhibiting UFM1-specific ligase 1 (UFL1)-induced UFMylation of NONO at Lys198. Enforced-NONO expression restores the suppression of growth and metastasis caused by WBP11 depletion or UFL1 overexpression. Overall, our study identifies a key role of the WBP11-NONO axis in HCC progression and reveals the importance of UFMylation in cancer, highlighting potential anticancer strategies by targeting the WBP11-regulated new types of posttranslational modifications.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
High incidence of recurrent miscarriage (RM, recurrent abnormal early embryo loss) largely limits global human reproduction. However, it is unclear how the pathogenesis greatly restricts its effective clinical treatment. In our previous studies, we have identified a group of novel long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs), which might regulate the occurrence of RM through unknown biological mechanisms. In this study, we confirm that a novel lncRNA, lnc-HZ14, which is highly expressed in unexplained RM vs healthy control (HC) villous tissues, is associated with RM using a new RM case-control group (n = 50). In trophoblast cellular assays, lnc-HZ14 suppresses trophoblast cell proliferation by specifically downregulating SPHK1 (sphingosine kinase 1) protein levels. In terms of mechanism, lnc-HZ14 upregulates SQSTM1/p62 protein levels, enhances its protein interactions with polyubiquitin-modified SPHK1, promotes the formation of SQSTM1-SPHK1 bodies through liquid-liquid phase separation (LLPS), and accelerates SPHK1 aggrephagy degradation. Meanwhile, lnc-HZ14 also promotes autophagy by activating ETV4-mediated transcription of ATG101 and PPP1R15A/GADD34. The cellular mechanisms are consistent with those in villous tissues of RM patients and in placental tissues of a mouse miscarriage model, excepting that there is no lnc-HZ14 homolog in mouse. As for miscarriage treatment, therapeutic upregulation of SPHK1 by treatment with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA), an SPHK1 agonist recovers mouse placental proliferation and alleviates mouse miscarriage. Collectively, this study shows for the first time the regulatory roles of lnc-HZ14, LLPS, and aggrephagy degradation of SPHK1 in unexplained recurrent miscarriage, uncovering novel pathogenesis and biological mechanisms of unexplained RM and also providing potential targets for treatment against miscarriage.Abberviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; Act D: actinomycin D; ATG101: autophagy related 101; Baf A1: bafilomycin, A1; CCK8: Cell Counting Kit-8; CHX: cycloheximide; CQ: chloroquine; EdU: 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine; EGFP: enhanced green fluorescent protein; ETV4/PEA3: ETS variant transcription factor 4; FISH: fluorescence in situ hybridization; IP: immunoprecipitation; KRT7: keratin 7; LLPS: liquid-liquid phase separation; lncRNA: long non-coding RNAs; MAP1LC3B/ LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MKI67/Ki67: marker of proliferation Ki-67; MTT: methylthiazolyldiphenyl tetrazolium bromide; PPP1R15A/GADD34: protein phosphatase 1 regulatory subunit 15A; PMA: phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate; RACE: rapid amplification of cDNA ends; RM: recurrent miscarriage; siRNA: small interfering RNA; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TUBB: tubulin beta; Ub: ubiquitin.
The aim of this study was to investigate the potential reproductive toxicity of bisphenol S (BPS) and the related molecular mechanisms through a network toxicology approach. By utilizing various databases, including the Comparative Toxicogenomics Database (CTD), GeneCards, Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man (OMIM), the Pharmacogenomics Knowledgebase (PharmGKB), and the Therapeutics Target Database (TTD), and limiting the species to Homo sapiens, we confirmed 45 potential targets related to both BPS exposure and reproductive injury. Additional analysis via STRING and Cytoscape pinpointed 4 key targets: AKT serine/threonine kinase 1 (AKT1), interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-1-beta (IL-1β), and tumor necrosis factor α (TNFα). Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analyses indicated that the principal targets of BPS-mediated reproductive damage are mainly involved in oxidative stress signaling and cell secretion pathways. Because PI3K/AKT regulates the secretion of IL-6, IL-1β, and TNFα, we focus on AKT1 in the molecular docking experiments. Unexpectedly, we found a strong interaction between BPS and AKT1. Furthermore, the results suggested that women may be more susceptible to BPS-mediated reproductive toxicity than men. This study provides a theoretical framework for understanding the molecular mechanisms through which BPS causes reproductive toxicity and lays the foundation for preventing and treating reproductive disorders related to BPS exposure. In addition, our network toxicology-based method can accelerate the discovery of pathways involved in the toxic effects of environmental chemicals that are currently unknown.© 2026 The Author(s). Pediatric Discovery published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Children's Hospital of Chongqing Medical University.
A large number of functional disorders and uncomfortable symptoms often remain following ischemic stroke (IS). Existing drug therapy is not ideal for the direct improvement of symptoms, which often leads to poor patient compliance with physical rehabilitation therapy. Buyang Huanwu Decoction (BYHWD) is a famous prescription that is effective in treating IS, especially during the sequela stage of IS. We analyzed the therapeutic mechanism of BYHWD through network pharmacology. This study aims to investigate the potential active ingredients, targets, and signaling pathways of BYHWD for the treatment of IS, utilizing network pharmacology and molecular docking technology. The active ingredients of 7 Chinese herbs in BYHWD were obtained from the Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology and HERB databases, and IS-related disease targets were searched in the DisGeNET, GeneCards, and OMIM databases. The protein-protein interaction network was constructed using the STRING database and analyzed by Cytoscape 3.10.2 software. Additionally, the target genes were uploaded to the Database for Annotation, Visualization, and Integrated Discovery website for Gene Ontology alongside Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes analyses. With the assistance of AutoDockTools and PyMOL software (Schrödinger, Inc.), a validation of molecular docking results and a visualization of the results were performed. The results showed that there were 190 intersection targets between the active drug components and IS, corresponding to 61 active components, among which the top 5 target genes were tumor suppressor protein 53, Jun proto-oncogene, AKT serine/threonine kinase 1, mitogen-activated protein kinase 1, and estrogen receptor alpha. The PI3K-Akt signaling pathway is one of the top 10 pathways. The molecular docking results indicated that most of the top 5 targets had good affinities for the 8 core compounds. This computational analysis suggests that BYHWD may treat IS through multiple targets and pathways. It may play a neuroprotective role by regulating the inflammatory response, oxidative stress, apoptosis, autophagy, and vascular endothelial homeostasis. The identification of core effective components provides a theoretical foundation and candidate compounds for further investigation into new drugs for the treatment of sequelae after IS.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Merkel cell carcinoma is an aggressive neuroendocrine skin malignancy rarely reported in non-domestic species.A cutaneous nodule from an endangered Caucasian squirrel (Sciurus anomalus pallescens) was examined using histopathology, immunohistochemistry, imaging mass cytometry, spatial transcriptomics (10× Visium) and metagenomic sequencing.Histology revealed a high-grade neuroendocrine carcinoma with frequent mitoses (52 per 2.37 mm2) and necrosis. Tumour cells were positive for cytokeratin 20 (paranuclear dot pattern), synaptophysin and chromogranin A, with a high Ki-67 index (68%). Spatial analyses delineated a distinct tumour core and combined invasive front and stromal compartments, revealing upregulation of neuroendocrine (atonal basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor 1 and neurogenic differentiation factor 1) and proliferative (marker of proliferation Ki-67) programmes, and activation of phosphoinositide 3-kinase-AKT serine/threonine kinase 1-mechanistic target of rapamycin and mitogen-activated protein kinase pathways. No evidence of Merkel cell polyomavirus was found. The tumour microenvironment was immune-excluded, with programmed-death ligand 1 expression on ~22% of tumour cells and CD8+ T cells restricted to the stroma.This study provides a comprehensive methodological framework for high-resolution tumour profiling in conservation pathology and highlights the emergence of neoplasia in threatened wildlife.© 2026 Peyman Mohammadzadeh et al.
Due to the increasing pressure of modern society, premature ovarian failure (POF) has become a widespread issue in women. POF not only impacts women's fertility but also heightens the risk of osteoporosis and cardiovascular diseases. Oviductus Ranae (OR) is a natural product that is used as medicine and food to exert "estrogen-like effects." Previous studies have reported that the compound improves follicle growth, which may be beneficial for POF. Thus, an experiment was designed to explore OR's positive effects on POF rats. POF rat models were established by intraperitoneal injection of cyclophosphamide (CTX), and OR was orally administered to the rats. Subsequently, serum estrogen and gonadotropin levels were measured by radioimmunoassay. Uterine status, endometrial epithelial thickness, and follicle numbers at different stages in ovaries were analyzed by H&E staining, and follicle atresia by TUNEL staining. Western blot was used to detect the expression levels of key proteins in the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/AKT serine/threonine kinase 1 (Akt) signaling pathway, as well as B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2) and Bcl-2-associated X protein (Bax) in ovarian tissues. The results showed that OR administration to POF rats alleviated estrous cycle disorder, increased estrogen levels (p < 0.05), decreased gonadotropin levels (p < 0.05), mitigated uterine atrophy, increased endometrial epithelial thickness (p < 0.01), ovarian weight (p < 0.05), secondary and Graafian follicle numbers (p < 0.05), while reducing secondary and Graafian follicle atresia rate (p < 0.05). These beneficial effects may be attributed to OR-mediated upregulation of the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway and modulation of the Bcl-2/Bax apoptotic axis in ovarian tissue. In conclusion, OR can improve the follicular condition in ovaries and relieve symptoms in POF rats.© 2026 The Author(s). Food Science & Nutrition published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
A key challenge in structure-based drug design is generating three-dimensional molecules while preserving essential protein-ligand interactions. We propose DiffPharma, a structure-based pharmacophore modeling framework based on a conditional diffusion model, to generate molecules that satisfy specified interaction constraints. The proposed method incorporates a semantic fusion architecture that integrates multiple interaction-specific neural networks, each designed to capture distinct molecular interactions such as hydrogen bonds and hydrophobic interactions. Experimental results demonstrate that DiffPharma achieves a residue-level interaction similarity of up to 0.9, significantly outperforming baseline models. To assess the method's generalizability, ligands were generated for AKT serine/threonine kinase 1 and serine β-lactamase, successfully preserving key interaction features. The effectiveness of the method is demonstrated through a practical case study targeting the SARS-CoV-2 main protease. Molecular dynamics simulations indicate that the generated molecules maintain both structural stability and key interactions comparable to those of a bioactive reference ligand. In addition, the molecular mechanics generalized Born surface area (MM/GBSA) calculations based on MD trajectories suggest that several generated molecules may exhibit relatively favorable binding tendencies compared with the reference. The implementation of the DiffPharma, including code and an execution environment on Google Colab, is available under the MIT license at GitHub: https://github.com/sekijima-lab/DiffPharma .© 2026. The Author(s).
This study aimed to explore the core active ingredients and potential molecular mechanisms of Erjing Pills, a prescription in the classic work of Traditional Chinese Medicine, "Shengji Zonglu," in the treatment of leukotrichia by utilizing network pharmacology and biomolecular docking techniques. The chemical components and potential targets of Chinese herbal medicines were analyzed through databases such as the Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology Database. The targets related to leukotrichia were collected using GeneCards. The intersection targets were obtained using RStudio. The protein-protein interaction (PPI) network map and the "drug-component-target-disease" visualization network were generated using Cytoscape and STRING to screen the core components and key targets. Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment analyses were carried out using the Database for Annotation, Visualization and Integrated Discovery and RStudio. Finally, molecular docking verification was performed by AutoDock and PyMOL (Schrödinger LLC). The key active ingredients of Erjing Pills in the treatment of leukotrichia are β-sitosterol, quercetin, baicalein, and stigmasterol. The top 5 PPI core target proteins, in order, are AKT serine/threonine kinase 1, interleukin 6, tumor protein p53, cysteine-aspartic acid protease 3, and interleukin 1 beta. The Gene Ontology enrichment analysis suggests that the biological processes mainly include responses to exogenous stimuli, membrane rafts, and DNA-binding transcription factor binding. The Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathways involve signal pathways such as lipid and atherosclerosis, hepatitis B, Kaposi sarcoma virus infection, chemical carcinogenesis, and human cytomegalovirus infection. The molecular docking results indicate that most of the main active ingredients in Erjing Pills have relatively stable binding activities with the key targets, such as AKT serine/threonine kinase 1, interleukin 6, tumor protein p53, cysteine-aspartic acid protease 3, and interleukin 1 beta, in the PPI network. The active ingredients of Erjing Pills may interfere with the pathological process of leukotrichia by regulating key targets and signal pathways. This study provides a theoretical basis for the clinical application of Erjing Pills and indicates the direction for subsequent experimental research.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Polystyrene exposure poses an increasing threat to reproductive health, and effective interventions remain limited. Jinkui Shenqi pills (JSP), a traditional Chinese medicine used to treat reproductive disorders, may protect against such damage. This study integrated network pharmacology with experimental validation to explore the mechanisms by which JSP counteracts polystyrene-induced reproductive toxicity.Potential targets related to polystyrene toxicity and bioactive components of JSP were retrieved from relevant databases. Overlapping targets were identified using VENNY 2.1. Protein-protein interaction networks were constructed using STRING, and core targets were identified with Cytoscape. Enrichment analyses were performed using DAVID. Molecular docking was used to evaluate ligand-target binding. A polystyrene-exposed mouse model was established, and tissue injury and recovery were assessed by hematoxylin-eosin (HE) staining and Western blotting (WB).In-depth screening identified 111 overlapping targets, and three key molecules-AKT serine/threonine kinase 1 (AKT1), caspase-3 (CASP3), and B-cell lymphoma 2 (BCL2)-were selected for further investigation. Gene Ontology analysis highlighted phosphorylation-related processes and responses to xenobiotics, while Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes analysis indicated enrichment in pathways related to lipid metabolism, atherosclerosis, cancer, and phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3K)-AKT signaling. Molecular docking confirmed effective binding of sitosterol, alisol B monoacetate, acetate, and alisol to these targets. HE staining revealed polystyrene-induced damage in testicular and ovarian tissues, which was effectively alleviated by JSP administration. WB results further demonstrated that JSP upregulated the expression of core target proteins, supporting its protective role against polystyrene-induced reproductive toxicity.JSP mitigates polystyrene-induced reproductive toxicity by modulating AKT1, CASP3, and BCL2, supporting its potential as a protective agent.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) is a disease that causes significant functional impairment and high mortality, imposing a heavy economic burden on patients and society. In this in-silico study, we investigated the potential therapeutic targets and underlying mechanisms of naringenin (NAR) in SCI by integrating network pharmacology, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics (MD) simulation. The intersection of NAR and SCI targets was used to construct a protein-protein interaction network using the STRING database. Gene Ontology, Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes, and Wiki Pathway enrichment analyses were performed using the DAVID bioinformatics resource. Finally, we used molecular docking and MD simulation to study the binding interactions between NAR and the core targets. The results show that the core targets of NAR for spinal cord injury include estrogen receptor 1, AKT serine/threonine kinase 1, B-cell lymphoma 2, PPARG, MAPK8, mechanistic target of rapamycin, protein kinase cAMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha, and HRas proto-oncogene, GTPase. These targets and associated biological processes provide multiple mechanisms supporting NAR's action. In addition, enrichment analysis indicates that the AMPK, FoxO, and PI3K-Akt-mechanistic target of rapamycin signaling pathways, autophagy, and apoptosis are the main pathways through which NAR acts in SCI. Molecular docking results show that the binding energy between NAR and key proteins ranges from -7.1 to -8.2 kcal/mol, providing a molecular basis for NAR's treatment of SCI. Molecular dynamics simulation results indicate that the AKT serine/threonine kinase 1-NAR and B-cell lymphoma 2-NAR complexes exhibit good stability. In summary, this study systematically predicts the key targets and signaling pathways through which NAR may act in SCI, providing a theoretical basis for future mechanistic and translational research. However, because the findings are based on computational analyses alone, further in vitro and in vivo validation is required.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
The simultaneous presence of sepsis and type 2 diabetic mellitus (T2DM) has a synergistic effect on hepatic damage. Although the activation of peroxisome proliferator-activate receptor gamma (PPARG) and AKT serine/threonine kinase 1 (AKT1) have been shown to confer protection alone in isolated models of sepsis or T2DM. The present study was designed to systematically assess the effects of PPARG or AKT1 activation on inflammatory responses and glucose and lipid metabolism as well as intestinal barrier function in a murine model of T2DM and sepsis (T2DM/sepsis), and understand the molecular pathways involved.Mice were treated with either the PPARG agonist pioglitazone or the AKT1 activator SC79 and we then evaluated survival, inflammatory indicators, metabolic changes, tissue pathology, intestinal barrier integrity, and gut microbiota composition. Mechanistic studies focused on the PPARG/AMPK and PI3K/AKT1/mTOR signaling pathways.Activation of either PPARG or AKT1 was associated with significantly increased survival rates, reduced systemic and hepatic levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines, increased the expression of anti-inflammatory mediators, ameliorated the abnormalities of the glucose and lipid metabolism, and partially improved hepatic, pulmonary, and intestinal injury. Mechanistically, PPARG activation mainly activated the PPARG/AMPK pathway and AKT1 activation enhanced the PI3K/AKT1/mTOR pathway. Furthermore, the intestinal barrier integrity and gut microbiota composition was partially improved.These results suggest that targeting PPARG or AKT1 is associated with protection against sepsis-associated liver injury in mice with T2DM by modulating the PPARG/AMPK axis or the PI3K/AKT1/mTOR pathway, respectively, which may collectively contribute to anti-inflammatogenic, metabolic, and gut-barrier protective mechanisms.
Mitophagy is a conserved cellular process that removes dysfunctional or excess mitochondria. Increasing evidence suggests that impaired mitophagy plays a crucial role in AD development. Promoting mitophagy has been shown to be protective in models of AD, representing an important target of Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the molecular mechanisms underlying impaired mitophagy in AD are still elusive. Here, we provide evidence that highly expressed acylglycerol kinase (AGK), a mitochondrial lipid kinase associated with mitochondrial protein transport, glycolysis, and platelet formation, is a key mediator of mitophagy in AD. We found that AGK promoted the binding of ATPase family AAA domain containing 3A to translocase of the inner mitochondrial membrane 23 and sequentially increased mitochondrial import of PTEN-induced putative kinase 1, leading to the decrease of mitophagy. Further investigations revealed that the AGK downregulation in neuronal cells and APP/PS1 mice enhanced mitophagy, increased mitochondrial membrane potential, decreased pathological Tau/Aβ and neuroinflammation, and alleviated cognitive dysfunctions in the mice. Altogether our findings indicate that AGK plays a critical role in mediating mitophagy defects in AD; furthermore, downregulation of AGK promotes mitophagy and the decrease of Aβ and pathological Tau, providing an encouraging therapeutic treatment for AD.© 2026 The Author(s). MedComm published by Sichuan International Medical Exchange & Promotion Association (SCIMEA) and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42052762 is a review article
ABCA7 (ATP binding cassette subfamily A member 7) encodes a lipid transporter associated with increasing risk for Alzheimer's disease (AD). A 44-base pair deletion in ABCA7 (rs142076058; p.Arg578Alafs) is a strong risk factor in individuals of African ancestry (AA). However, the biological consequences of this deletion are poorly understood.We expressed the truncated ABCA7 protein in HEK and HepG2 cells to assess cellular localization and impact on lipid metabolism, respectively. Additionally, induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived neurons carrying the deletion were functionally assessed compared to isogenic controls.Truncated ABCA7 localized to endoplasmic reticulum and plasma membranes similarly to the wild type in HEK cells but induced significant lipid droplet accumulation in HepG2 cells and iPSC-derived neurons while reducing mitochondrial membrane potential in iPSC-derived neurons.These findings show that the AA-specific ABCA7 deletion disrupts lipid and mitochondrial homeostasis, supporting a mechanistic link between the ABCA7 deletion and increased AD risk.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL) is a common cause of acquired sensorineural hearing loss. Excessive endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress-induced apoptosis of cochlear hair cells contributes to NIHL. ER autophagy (ER-phagy) is a critical pathway for maintaining ER homeostasis and cell survival. DDRGK1 (DDRGK domain containing 1) is a crucial receptor in ER-phagy, essential for the removal of injured ER components. This work investigates the involvement of DDRGK1-mediated ER-phagy in NIHL, which has remained unclear. ER-phagy flux is inhibited in HEI-OC1 cells treated with hydrogen peroxide. Noise exposure reduces XIAP (X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein) and DDRGK1 protein levels in these cells. Moreover, XIAP binds to DDRGK1, increasing the stability of DDRGK1 and activating ER-phagy. Notably, in noise-exposed CBA/CaJ mice, gastrodin, a traditional Chinese medicine ingredient, reduces noise-induced loss of cochlear hair cells, ribbon synaptic damage, and hearing loss by promoting XIAP expression, thereby increasing DDRGK1 protein levels and activating ER-phagy. These findings highlight XIAP-DDRGK1-mediated ER-phagy as a novel therapeutic target for NIHL treatment.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Rare mutations in the ATP binding cassette subfamily A member 7 (ABCA7) gene are known risk factors for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Genetic sequencing in 1372 Belgian patients previously revealed rare ABCA7 mutations in 102 carriers, 58 with a premature termination codon mutation (PTC) and 44 with a missense mutation. Among carriers, 14 received post-mortem examination. Here, we reviewed and report the demographics, clinicopathological phenotypes, and diagnoses of identified ABCA7 mutation carriers. Carriers mostly developed late-onset AD (71 ± 9 years) and had a high familial load (67 % with positive family history). Patients presented with classic amnestic AD based on neuropsychological assessment, imaging and CSF biomarkers. However, vascular involvement was observed in a considerable part of patients, leading to diagnosis of vascular dementia (9 %) and cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) (6 %). In line with this, neuropathology of the 14 examined carriers uncovered extensive levels of CAA and AD hallmarks. Carriers of an ABCA7 missense mutations displayed a less aggressive phenotype, with comparable onset but longer disease duration compared to carriers of a PTC mutation. Furthermore, non-amnestic features including language, dysexecutive and behavioural symptoms, were more frequently seen in PTC patients (18 % vs 9 %), as was the case for concomitant vascular disease (22 % vs 10 %). Taken together, the clinical phenotype of rare ABCA7 mutation carriers spans the AD-CAA spectrum. Patients present with a classical AD phenotype although clinical heterogeneity is observed among carriers. The presence of a cerebrovascular component (CAA) may, in part, explain this heterogeneity.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Over 40% of Samoans have at least one copy of the minor A allele at rs373863828 in encoding CREB3 regulatory factor (CREBRF), which is associated with increased body mass index (BMI) but decreased odds of type 2 diabetes mellitus. The mechanisms underlying this paradoxical effect remain unknown. We hypothesized that gut microbiota may play a role and examined associations between CREBRF genotype and gut microbial diversity and composition among Samoan infants. Fecal samples were collected from Samoan infants aged 0 (n = 23), 4 (n = 20), and 21 (n = 27) mo. Microbiota community structure was analyzed using 16S rRNA bacterial gene sequencing. Both cross-sectional and longitudinal analyses revealed no associations between CREBRF genotype and overall microbiome composition or diversity at 0 or 4 mo. Cross-sectional analysis at 21 mo revealed a significant association between genotype and unweighted UniFrac distances (F1,24 = 1.855, R2 = 0.072, P = 0.015). Longitudinal differential abundance analysis also revealed several differentially abundant taxa at 21 mo. Notably, the AG genotype was associated with a lower relative abundance of Escherichia-Shigella (β = -6.741, SE = 2.243, P = 0.004, q = 0.042). Significant genotype differences in gut microbiome composition and diversity at 21 mo suggest that gut microbiota may be involved in relationships between CREBRF genotype and metabolic health. No genotype differences were observed at 0 or 4 mo, suggesting that environmental and/or maternal variables have a greater influence on the gut microbiome in early infancy, and genotype effects emerge later. Further research should examine whether genotype differences in gut microbiota are associated with functional differences in metabolic or immune signaling pathways or energy extraction.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Missense variant rs373863828 in CREBRF is associated with higher odds of obesity but lower odds of diabetes among Polynesians. We examined associations between CREBRF genotype and gut microbial diversity and composition among Samoan infants and identified significant differences at age 21 mo but not at age 0 or 4 mo. These results suggest that gut microbiota may contribute to the mechanisms through which CREBRF genotype impacts metabolic health.
Dementia, a leading cause of global mortality, disproportionately impacts sub-Saharan Africans due to complex genetic and environmental interactions. This systematic review evaluated dementia risk factors among sub-Saharan Africans, identifying significant genetic and environmental influences using the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines. The ATP-binding cassette subfamily A member 7 (ABCA7) gene, linked to dementia in African Americans, and unique genetic variants like those in A-kinase anchor protein 9 (AKAP9) and cytidine deaminase (CDA) genes, emerge as potential contributors. Conversely, apolipoprotein E (APOE) ε4 shows lesser impact in older sub-Saharan Africans. Environmental findings highlight that exposure to air pollution, including nitrogen dioxide and particulate matter increases the likelihood of dementia. These findings highlight the role of genetic and environmental diversity in shaping dementia risk profiles. Strategies such as training health-care professionals, enhancing funding for research, combating stigma through awareness campaigns, and fostering global collaborations are vital to ensure African representation in dementia studies. These efforts aim to improve the knowledge of dementia tailored to sub-Saharan Africa's needs. HIGHLIGHTS: The ATP-binding cassette subfamily A member 7 (ABCA7) gene is strongly associated with dementia risk, particularly in African American populations. Apolipoprotein E (APOE) ε4, a well-established risk factor for Alzheimer's disease in Western populations, has a lesser impact in older sub-Saharan Africans, suggesting unique genetic-environment interactions. Exposure to air pollutants, such as nitrogen dioxide and particulate matter, significantly increases dementia risk. The development of dementia in sub-Saharan Africans is influenced by complex interactions between genetic predispositions and environmental exposures, emphasizing the need for tailored prevention strategies.© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Mitochondrial proteins assemble dynamically in high molecular weight complexes essential for their functions. We generated and validated two searchable compendia of these mitochondrial complexes. Following identification by mass spectrometry of proteins in complexes separated using blue-native gel electrophoresis from unperturbed, cristae-remodeled, and outer membrane-permeabilized mitochondria, we created MARIGOLD, a mitochondrial apoptotic remodeling complexome database of 627 proteins. MARIGOLD elucidates how dynamically proteins distribute in complexes upon mitochondrial membrane remodeling. From MARIGOLD, we developed MitoCIAO, a mitochondrial complexes interactome tool that, by statistical correlation, calculates the likelihood of protein cooccurrence in complexes. MitoCIAO correctly predicted biologically validated interactions among components of the mitochondrial cristae organization system (MICOS) and optic atrophy 1 (OPA1) complexes. We used MitoCIAO to functionalize two ATPase family AAA domain-containing 3A (ATAD3A) complexes: one with OPA1 that regulates mitochondrial ultrastructure and the second containing ribosomal proteins that is essential for mitoribosome stability. These compendia reveal the dynamic nature of mitochondrial complexes and enable their functionalization.Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 39113560 is a review article
Circular RNAs (circRNAs) have been confirmed to be an important modulator and therapeutic target of cervical cancer (CC). The aim of this study is to explore the role and mechanism of circ_0081723 in CC progression. Circ_0081723, microRNA-545-3p (miR-545-3p), and CREB3 regulatory factor (CREBRF) levels were detected using quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) assay. CREBRF, ki-67, Bcl-2 related X protein (Bax), and E-cadherin expression levels were determined using western blot (WB) and immunohistochemistry (IHC) assays. Cell proliferation was assessed using Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), cell colony formation, and 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU) assays. Flow cytometry was used to measure cell apoptosis.  Cell migration and invasion were examined using Transwell assay. Interaction between miR-545-3p and circ_0081723 or CREBRF was verified using dual-luciferase reporter assay and RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP) assays. The biological role of circ_0081723 on CC growth was examined using the xenograft tumor model in vivo. Circ_0081723 and CREBRF were increased, and miR-545-3p was decreased in CC tissues and cells. Circ_0081723 silencing suppressed CC cell growth and motility whereas boosted CC cell apoptosis. Besides, circ_0081723 acted as a molecular sponge for miR-545-3p, and circ_0081723 knockdown-induced effects were largely reversed by miR-545-3p downregulation in CC cells. Moreover, miR-545-3p repressed CC progression by targeting CREBRF.  Circ_0081723 absence blocked xenograft tumor growth in vivo. Circ_0081723 stimulated CC cell malignant behaviors by regulating the miR-545-3p/CREBRF pathway, providing a possible circRNA-targeted therapy for CC.© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Aberrant histone lactylation is emerging as a pivotal player in tumorigenesis. However, its role in epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) has not been fully elucidated to date.Histone lactylation levels were detected using western blotting and immunohistochemistry in EOC and their prognostic value was evaluated. By integrating CUT&Tag and RNA-seq data, we pinpointed Ubiquitin-conjugating E2 enzyme variant 1(Ube2v1) as the crucial gene regulated by Histone H4K12 lactylation (H4K12la). The role of H4K12la on enhancing Ube2v1 expression was confirmed through RT-PCR, western blotting, ChIP, and dual-luciferase reporter assays. Target proteins interacting with and regulated by Ube2v1 were identified using IP-MS and validated by Co-IP. A histone modification compound library was used to screen potential modulators of H4K12la. MALDI-TOF/TOF MS was used to detect in vitro enzymatic products to investigate the potential lactylation activity of BRD4.H4K12la was significantly elevated in EOC tissues and associated with poor patient survival. We identified Ube2v1 as a key target gene activated by H4K12la. Ube2v1 promoted EOC cell proliferation and inhibited apoptosis by forming a complex with Ubc13 to catalyze the K63-linked ubiquitination and subsequent autophagic degradation of DDX3X. Through a targeted compound screen, we discovered that BET inhibitors, especially inhibitors that target BRD4 via the PROTAC approach, could significantly downregulate the level of H4K12la. Crucially, our findings suggest that BRD4 might play a direct role in modulating H4K12 lactylation. The expression levels of BRD4, H4K12la, and Ube2v1 were positively correlated in clinical EOC samples and ovarian cancer cell lines.Our study uncovers a previously unrecognized function of BRD4 in regulating histone lactylation and delineates the oncogenic BRD4/H4K12la/Ube2v1/DDX3X axis in EOC. These findings not only provide a profound mechanistic insight into EOC progression but also firmly establish the therapeutic rationale for targeting BRD4, via PROTAC inhibitors, in the treatment of EOC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Background: Metabolic reprogramming is a hallmark of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), and amino acid reprogramming plays an important role in its metastatic progression. However, the function of amino acid reprogramming in HCC metastatic progression remains unclear. This study aimed to elucidate the function and mechanism of amino acid reprogramming, particularly focusing on proline metabolism, in driving HCC metastasis. Methods: HCC cohort and multiple HCC models were enrolled to investigate the role of amino acid reprogramming in HCC metastatic progression. The pro-metastatic effect of l-proline in HCC was consistently validated across in vitro and in vivo studies. Ribosome profiling (Ribo-seq) and l-proline pull-down were used to investigate the mechanism of proline-mediated HCC metastasis. Results: Based on metabolomics and proteomics, we found that proline metabolism was enhanced during HCC metastasis, as evidenced by increased proline levels and proline metabolism-related enzymes in both HCC metastatic patients and mice. Moreover, high levels of proline were found to promote HCC metastasis. Mechanistically, l-proline directly interacted with glutamyl-prolyl-tRNA synthetase 1 (EPRS1) at its Glu1123 residue, thereby selectively enhancing the translation of phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase catalytic subunit α (PIK3CA), AKT serine/threonine kinase 3 (AKT3), and integrin subunit β1 (ITGB1). Importantly, the enhanced protein translation could be abolished by bersiporocin, an EPRS1 inhibitor that prevents l-proline binding to EPRS1. Finally, the inhibitory effect of bersiporocin on HCC metastasis was confirmed in patient-derived orthotopic xenograft models. Conclusions: Our findings not only revealed the critical role of l-proline-bound EPRS1 in promoting HCC metastasis but also indicated that inhibiting this binding could be a promising strategy to prevent metastasis.Copyright © 2026 Hui Zhang et al.
Exercise can help mitigate age-related muscle atrophy, promoting mitochondrial function, Ca2+ homeostasis and regulating gene expression. MicroRNAs (miRs) are crucial post-transcriptional regulators of gene expression, fine-tuning protein levels to maintain cellular homeostasis. In Caenorhabditis elegans, a 5-day swimming regimen increased mitochondrial content, lifespan and fitness. Small RNA sequencing identified exercise specific miRs, including increased levels of cel-miR-57-5p and cel-miR-249-3p, and decreased levels of cel-miR-72-3p and cel-miR-77-5p. mir-57 and mir-249 mutant strains had enhanced fertility, survival and lifespan, whereas mir-72 and mir-77 mutant strains had diminished fertility, survival and lifespan. The exercise-related miRs identified in C. elegans did not have conserved mammalian orthologs. Exercise regulated mammalian miRs were identified from the literature including mmu-miR-181a-5p, mmu-miR-199a-5p and mmu-miR-378a-3p. Treatment of murine myoblasts with mmu-miR-181a-5p and mmu-miR-378a-3p enhanced mitochondrial content, autophagy markers and myogenesis, while mmu-miR-199a-5p impaired these processes. Exercise-related miRs identified in C. elegans target genes regulating Ca2+ homeostasis such as ipp-5 (inositol Polyphosphate-5-phosphatase), sca-1 (Ca2+ transporting ATPase) and ncx-2 (mitochondrial Na+/Ca2+ antiporter). It was also confirmed that mmu-miR181a-5p targets Inpp5a and treatment with antogmiR-181a decreased Ca2+ handling in myotubes. Similarly, mmu-miR-378a-3p and cel-miR-249-3p target Kinase Suppressor of Ras (Ksr1)/ksr-2, involved in the MAPK pathway. Despite direct conservation of exercise-related miRs from nematodes to mammals, there are putative common regulatory pathways contributing to exercise-induced adaptations.© 2026 The Author(s). The FEBS Journal published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
Amylin is a hormone secreted by pancreatic β cells, and oligomerized human amylin (hAmylin) has shown neurotoxicity in mice. However, the effect of hAmylin oligomers on cognitive ability and the underlying mechanisms remains unexplored.In this study, hAmylin oligomers were bilaterally injected into the hippocampus of mice.Inspiringly, hAmylin-mice displayed obvious cognition decline and neuronal damages in the hippocampal dentate gyrus (DG) area. Thus, hippocampal tissues were collected for mRNA-seq analysis, which identified the upregulation of transcription factor SATB Homeobox 1 (SATB1) in the hippocampus of hAmylin mice. Using behavioral experiments and histopathological analyses, the promoting effect of SATB1 knockdown on cognition decline and neuronal damage in hAmylin mice was determined. In vitro, SATB1 expression was reduced in primary hippocampus neurons after hAmylin oligomer incubation. SATB1 overexpression inhibited hAmylin-induced mitochondrial dysfunction and neuronal apoptotic deaths, while SATB1 knockdown exhibited opposite effects. SATB1 transcriptionally activated AKT serine/threonine kinase 3 (AKT3) by binding to its promoter region, and AKT3 accounted for SATB1-mediated protection against hAmylin-induced mitochondrial dysfunction and neuronal injury.In summary, this study highlights the novel role of SATB1 in hAmylin oligomer-induced neuronal damage and cognition decline via AKT3.© 2026 The Author(s). CNS Neuroscience & Therapeutics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Fibrillary glomerulonephritis (FGN) is a rare kidney disease characterized by the deposition of Congo red (CR) negative fibrils measuring 12 to 24 nm in diameter on electron microscopy. Recently, DnaJ heat shock protein family (Hsp40) member B9 (DNAJB9) detected by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) was discovered to be a sensitive and specific biomarker for FGN. This report presents the first documented case of recurrent congophilic FGN, a rare glomerular disease with features resembling amyloidosis, occurring two years and eight months after a renal transplant. Diagnosis of both primary and recurrent FGN was confirmed through DNAJB9 detection using advanced laser microdissection and LC-MS/MS techniques. The recurrent FGN exhibited features consistent with amyloidosis, including CR positivity, characteristic microscopic findings, and fibrils on electron microscopy with a 9 to 15 nm diameter. This case demonstrates that FGN could recur in the transplanted kidney as congophilic GN with characteristic findings of amyloidosis, and it is difficult, if not impossible, to render a correct diagnosis without LC-MS/MS or immunohistochemistry.
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a chronic disorder involving pain and functional disturbance due to its impact on joint tissues. This study investigated the mechanism of the DEAD-box helicase 3 X-linked (DDX3X)/NOD-like receptor protein 3 (NLRP3)/gasdermin D (GSDMD) pathway in pyroptosis and inflammatory responses in OA chondrocytes. Mouse chondrocyte ATDC5 cells were cultured in vitro and induced for chondrogenic differentiation, followed by H2O2 treatment to simulate OA. Cells were transfected for 24 h with siRNA-DDX3X, pcDNA3.1-NLRP3, pcDNA3.1-GSDMD, and corresponding negative controls. Cell viability was evaluated by CCK-8. Reactive oxygen species (ROS), interleukin (IL)-6, tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), IL-1β, and IL-18 levels in the supernatant, DDX3X, GSDMD, and NLRP3 mRNA and protein levels, and pyroptosis-related protein (Collagen II, Aggrecan, Cleave-Caspase-1, full-length GSDMD [GSDMD-FL], GSDMD-N-terminal domain [GSDMD-NT], apoptosis-associated spot-like protein [ASC]) levels were assessed by ELISA, RT-qPCR, and western blot. The NLRP3-DDX3X interaction was predicted and validated by the STRING database and Co-IP assay. H2O2-treated ATDC5 showed decreased cell viability, and Collagen II and Aggrecan levels, increased GSDMD-FL cleavage, supernatant ROS, IL-6, TNF-α, IL-1β, and IL-18 levels, DDX3X mRNA and protein expression, Cleave-Caspase-1, GSDMD-NT, NLRP3, and ASC levels, and an enhanced NLRP3-DDX3X interaction. However, DDX3X knockdown partially reversed the above phenomenon in H2O2-treated ATDC5, indicating that suppressing the DDX3X/GSDMD axis attenuated OA chondrocyte pyroptosis and inflammatory response in vitro. NLRP3 or GSDMD overexpression partly counteracted DDX3X knockdown-improved OA chondrocyte pyroptosis and inflammation. Inhibiting the DDX3X/NLRP3/GSDMD axis alleviated chondrocyte pyroptosis and inflammatory response in OA in vitro, thus ameliorating chondrocyte injury.© 2025 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Neuroblastoma (NB) is a common pediatric solid tumor with poor prognosis, in which macrophage polarization is increasingly recognized as a key driver of progression. However, the roles of RNA-binding proteins such as DEAD-box helicase 3 X-linked (DDX3X) and interleukin enhancer-binding factor 3 (ILF3) in this process remain unclear. This study aims to explore the role of the DDX3X-ILF3 axis in modulating macrophage polarization and promoting the malignant progression of NB. ILF3 expression was analyzed by RT-qPCR and Western blotting. Lentiviral-mediated knockdown of ILF3 or DDX3X was performed, followed by evaluation of cell viability, proliferation, invasion, and migration, respectively. In a Transwell co-culture system, the expression of polarization markers was examined by Western blotting, and the secretion of inflammatory cytokines was measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Actinomycin D treatment combined with RT-qPCR was used to assess ILF3 mRNA stability. RIP-qPCR was employed to explore the interaction of DDX3X with ILF3 mRNA. NB xenograft and metastasis mouse model (lung, liver, and kidney) was established to evaluate the regulatory effects of the DDX3X inhibitor RK-33 and ILF3 overexpression on NB growth and metastasis. ILF3 expression was significantly upregulated in NB cells. Knockdown of ILF3 or DDX3X suppressed NB cell viability, proliferation, invasion, and migration, while promoting M1 macrophage polarization accompanied by increased secretion of inflammatory cytokines. Silencing DDX3X reduced ILF3 mRNA stability and protein expression, whereas ILF3 overexpression negated the suppressive impacts of DDX3X knockdown on malignant behaviors and polarization status. In vivo, DDX3X inhibitor, RK-33, markedly inhibited NB tumor growth and metastasis and enhanced M1 macrophage polarization, which was partially reversed by ILF3 overexpression. DDX3X promotes NB progression by stabilizing ILF3 mRNA, thereby facilitating M2 macrophage polarization.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Background/Objectives: Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the most common malignancies worldwide. microRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNA molecules that regulate gene expression post-transcriptionally and have emerged as important regulators in cancer biology. This study aimed to investigate the roles of miR-379-5p and miR-519a-3p in CRC using Quantitative Real-Time PCR (RT-qPCR) and comprehensive bioinformatic analyses. Methods: Tumor tissues and matched adjacent normal tissues were collected from 54 patients with CRC. The expression levels of miR-379-5p and miR-519a-3p in these tissues were determined using the RT-qPCR method. To investigate the functional roles of differently expressed miRNAs, Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analyses were performed to construct miRNA-transcription factor (TF)-target gene-disease interaction networks. Results: It was found that the expression level of miR-379-5p was statistically significantly increased in tumor tissues compared to normal tissues, while miR-519a-3p was decreased (p < 0.05). GO analysis revealed enrichment in several important biological processes, including cellular protein metabolic processes, biosynthetic processes, response to stress, and nucleic acid binding TF activity. KEGG analysis exhibited that dysregulated miRNAs were associated with important pathways related to carcinogenesis, such as p53 signaling, TGF-beta signaling, and FoxO signaling pathways. Additionally, the miRNAs-TFs-Genes-Diseases Networks analysis identified ESR1 and FOXA1 as common target TFs of dysregulated miRNAs. Network analyses showed that dysregulated miRNAs interact with CRC-associated genes (Caspase 3 (CASP3), Adenomatous polyposis coli (APC), and AKT serine/threonine kinase 3 (AKT3)). Conclusions: The present study indicates that miR-379-5p and miR-519a-3p may be involved in CRC progression, with miR-379-5p being upregulated and miR-519a-3p being downregulated in tumor tissues. However, further functional studies are required to clarify their potential roles in tumor biology. The findings of the study suggest that miR-379-5p and miR-519a-3p may be associated with regulatory pathways related to CRC. These miRNAs have the potential to serve as diagnostic biomarkers or therapeutic targets in CRC.
The progression of inflammation during sepsis represents a multifaceted biological cascade that requires effective therapeutic interventions to improve survival. In septic neonatal foals, oxidative stress (OS) arises due to a compromised antioxidant defense system. Oxidative stress may disrupt the functionality of redox-sensitive organelles, such as the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Endoplasmic reticulum stress disorder affects multiple cellular signaling pathways, including redox balance, inflammation, and apoptosis, and contributes to the pathogenesis of sepsis. The study aimed to elucidate whether OS conditions in sepsis influenced gene expression associated with ER stress. Blood samples were collected from 7 healthy and 21 hospitalized neonatal foals and processed for RNA extraction. RNA sequencing was employed to identify ER stress-responsive genes. Novel findings reported here indicate activation of the ER stress pathway in foals with sepsis. Several genes associated with ER stress, such as clusterin (CLU), BCL2-like 1 (BCL2L1), ubiquitin specific peptidase 14 (USP14), bifunctional apoptosis regulator (BFAR), and optic atrophy 1 (OPA1), were upregulated and positively correlated with sepsis scores and negatively correlated with the combined activities of antioxidant enzymes. In contrast, X-box binding protein 1 (XBP1), homocysteine inducible ER protein with ubiquitin-like domain 1 (HERPUD1), leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2), and selenoprotein S (SELENOS) were negatively correlated with sepsis scores and were downregulated in sepsis and positively correlated with the combined activities of antioxidant enzymes. Furthermore, a positive correlation was observed between cAMP responsive element binding protein 3 like 2 (CREB3L2) and BCL2L1, as well as between the expressions of USP14 and YOD1 deubiquitinase (YOD1) in sepsis. Similarly, the expression levels of XBP1 and Herpud1 demonstrated a positive correlation with each other in sepsis. Additionally, the downregulation of genes with protective function against OS, such as XBP1, HERPUD1, and SELENOS, in septic foals also highlights their significance in mitigating OS in sepsis treatment. The study reported here highlights the potential of ER stress as a promising therapeutic target and prognostic marker in septic foals.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia (LAML) is a life-threatening hematological malignancy, and the DEAD-box helicase 3 X-linked (DDX3X) gene is a potential yet underexplored target gene for LAML. Biomolecules derived from medicinal plants like Aerva javanica offer a great source of therapeutic candidates. This study aimed to investigate the role of DDX3X in LAML and identify plant-derived biomolecules that could inhibit DDX3X using computational approaches. Pan-cancer mutational profiling, a transcriptomic analysis, survival, protein-protein interaction networks, and a principal component analysis (PCA) were employed to elucidate functional associations and transcriptomic divergence. Subsequently, biomolecules from A. javanica were subjected to in silico screening using molecular docking and ADMET profiling. The docking protocol was validated using RK-33, a known DDX3X inhibitor. DDX3X was found to be linked to key leukemogenic pathways, including Wnt/β-catenin and MAPK signaling, indicating it to be a potential target. Molecular docking of A. javanica compounds revealed CIDs 15559724, 5490003, and 74819331 as potent DDX3X inhibitors with strong binding affinity and favorable pharmacokinetic and toxicity profiles compared to RK-33. This study highlights the importance of DDX3X in LAML pathogenesis and suggests targeting it using plant-derived inhibitors, which may require further in vitro and in vivo validation.
In the original publication [...].
Skipped: PubMed ID 42417999 is a review article
Factor XI (FXI) and its activated form, factor XIa (FXIa), have emerged as a leading novel anticoagulant target of the past decade. This review summarizes mechanistic and clinical data from 2023 through 2026 and proposes an indication-specific framework for FXIa inhibitor positioning.Three large randomized studies diverged by indication. Abelacimab reduced major and clinically relevant nonmajor bleeding by 62% versus rivaroxaban in atrial fibrillation (AZALEA-TIMI 71). Asundexian was inferior to apixaban for stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation (OCEANIC-AF) yet reduced recurrent stroke after noncardioembolic events (OCEANIC-STROKE). Milvexian entered a three-trial phase 3 program. FXIa has been found to drive platelet and endothelial activation in inflammation-associated thrombosis, whereas the FXI zymogen has noncoagulation roles that include activation of bone morphogenetic protein 7-SMAD1/5 cardioprotection. A fifth drug class of allosteric FXI activation inhibitors was further characterized.FXIa contribution to thrombus formation varies by anatomic site, flow conditions, and inflammatory phenotype. The clinical data support indication-specific positioning for cancer-associated thrombosis, secondary stroke prevention, and patients at high bleeding risk, but provide weaker support for broad substitution for direct oral anticoagulants.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.
The liver is known to play a pivotal role in modulating blood glucose homeostasis through intrahepatic glucose metabolism. Here, we reveal a unique mechanism by which fatty liver exacerbates hyperglycemia through remote communication from hepatocytes to intestinal stem cells (ISCs), independent of enhanced intrahepatic gluconeogenesis. Mechanistically, hepatocyte-derived alkaline phosphatase (ALP) targets α2δ-1 in ISCs to promote the membrane translocation of Cav1.2. This process triggers increased intracellular calcium levels, which subsequently activates the calcineurin/NFATC2 signaling axis, thereby inhibiting SOX21 expression. Then, decreased expression of SOX21 downregulated bone morphogenetic protein 7 (BMP7), ultimately hindering ISCs differentiation into intestinal L-cells. Consequently, the levels of hypoglycemic enteroendocrine hormones secreted by L-cells are decreased, thereby promoting hyperglycemia. Therapeutically, inhibiting ALP synthesis in fatty liver independently reduces blood glucose and synergistically enhances the hypoglycemic effect of metformin. Our study highlights the role of liver-gut communication in regulating the fate of ISC differentiation and blood glucose homeostasis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Two recombinant bone morphogenetic proteins (BMP-2 and BMP-7) have received FDA approval for bone-related therapies. However, their clinical performance is limited by high costs, the need for supraphysiological doses, and adverse side effects. Here, we describe a chemically modified mRNA (cmRNA) encoding BMP-7 that promotes osteogenesis and functional ossification. The BMP-7 cmRNA is delivered using optimized lipid vectors and a composite fibrin-calcium phosphate scaffold. Among several lipids evaluated, two previously unexplored lipids efficiently condense mRNA and mediate its in vivo delivery. Transfer of BMP-7 cmRNA lipoplexes to human mesenchymal stromal cells activates intracellular vesicle transport and cytoskeletal remodeling, and regulates extracellular matrix production and calcium-associated processes. These responses were accompanied by robust mineralization and activation of key osteogenic pathways. In vivo, BMP-7 mRNA-activated scaffolds promote the formation of ossified tissue, with the highest dose yielding the largest ectopic bony growth. We further observe concurrent angiogenesis and neurogenesis, demonstrating coordinated tissue regeneration. This platform enables effective in vivo mRNA delivery for bone healing and can be applied to other tissues, facilitating the development of mRNA therapeutics in regenerative medicine.© 2026 The Authors.
Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the intestine caused by multiple factors, with a global incidence that is increasing year by year, severely affecting patients' quality of life. Capsaicin (CAP), the main active component in chili peppers, has anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects. As a key part of the immune system, macrophages play a critical role in maintaining intestinal homeostasis. Growing evidence suggests that M1 macrophage polarization is closely associated with the onset and progression of IBD. This study used a dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced IBD model, lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced macrophage M1 polarization and bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs), and found that CAP can significantly alleviate macrophage M1 polarization by reducing the expression of CD86 and iNOS, inhibiting the release of inflammatory factors tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β), and interleukin-6 (IL-6), and improving intestinal pathological damage. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) analysis suggested that CAP may act through the TNF receptor-associated factor 1 (TRAF1)/nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) pathway, further, silencing TRAF1 with siRNA and AAV confirmed that this pathway plays a key role in CAP regulation of macrophage polarization and alleviation of IBD. This study reveals the molecular pathway by which CAP alleviates IBD through regulating M1 macrophage polarization, providing an important theoretical basis for a deeper understanding of the pathogenesis of IBD and the development of new therapeutic strategies.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This study explored low-magnitude high-frequency (LMHF) mechanical vibration as a strategy to expand mandibular condylar chondrocyte (MCC) populations with enhanced chondrogenic phenotypes, providing high-quality cellular resources for cartilage tissue engineering.Primary MCCs from 3-week-old Sprague-Dawley rat condylar cartilage were subjected to LMHF vibration stimulation (0.49 g, 40 Hz) using a GJX-5 vibration device. Cell proliferation was evaluated via lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) assay and flow cytometry-based cell cycle analysis. The maintenance and enhancement of the chondrogenic phenotype were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for glycosaminoglycan (GAG) secretion and Western blotting for the expression of key markers, including Aggrecan (AGG), bone morphogenetic protein 7 (BMP7), Collagen X, β-catenin, and the autophagy-related protein Atg12. Additionally, alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity was measured to assess chondrocyte maturation.LMHF vibration exerts no significant effect on the proliferation of MCCs, and its regulatory effect is mostly manifested as a time-dependent pattern. Compared with the control group, LMHF vibration reduced MCC proliferation on Days 1 and 3 but increased it on Day 5, with increased S-phase fraction (SPF)(P < 0.001). ALP activity rose continuously in the vibration group, peaking on day 14. The vibration group showed a 56.5% increase in GAG secretion on day 3 (P < 0.01), upregulated the expression of chondrogenic markers (AGG, BMP7, Collagen X), and downregulated the autophagy-related protein Atg12 (P < 0.05).Appropriate LMHF mechanical vibration (0.49 g, 40 Hz) effectively enhances the chondrogenic phenotype of MCCs. This non-invasive strategy holds significant promise for cartilage tissue engineering and chondrocyte-based therapy.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Ultraviolet (UV) radiation is a major environmental driver of skin photoaging and induces keratinocyte senescence accompanied by the release of senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP) factors that promote dermal degeneration. However, whether and how skin commensal bacteria modulate UV-induced senescence remains incompletely understood. Here, we investigated the potential role of Staphylococcus epidermidis, a dominant epidermal commensal, in regulating UV-induced skin photoaging. In a murine photoaging model, intradermal or topical administration of a ≤10 kDa fraction derived from S. epidermidis culture supernatant attenuated epidermal hyperplasia, collagen degradation, and the expression of senescence-associated markers following long-term UV exposure. In keratinocytes, UVB irradiation induced reactive oxygen species accumulation, DNA damage, and robust production of SASP factors that promoted paracrine senescence in dermal fibroblasts. Treatment with S. epidermidis or its candidate bioactive lipopeptide component LP78 markedly reduced these responses. Genetic deletion or silencing of Toll-like receptor 3 (Tlr3) diminished UV-induced SASP factor production and fibroblast senescence, supporting a role of TLR3 in photoaging-associated inflammatory signaling. Mechanistically, S. epidermidis and LP78 activated TLR2 signaling to induce TNF receptor-associated factor 1 (TRAF1), a negative regulator of TLR3, thereby suppressing TLR3-mediated SASP production. Collectively, these findings identify a potential microbiota-innate immune regulatory axis in which S. epidermidis-derived factors restrain keratinocyte inflammatory senescence and attenuate UV-induced skin damage. This work highlights a potential role of commensal bacteria in limiting photoaging-associated inflammation.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Wang, Yang, Liu, Jia, Chen and Lai.
Viral pneumonia-associated coagulopathy is a major determinant of mortality, yet the upstream molecular drivers initiating the coagulation cascade remain incompletely understood.We integrated bulk and single-cell transcriptomics to map viral infection signatures. Mechanistic and therapeutic evaluations were performed in a poly(I:C)-induced pneumonia model utilizing candidate gene-knockout mice and STAT3 inhibition (Stattic), with endpoints including lung injury, tissue factor (TF) expression, and microthrombosis.We identified N-myc and STAT interactor (NMI) as a critical damage-associated molecular pattern (DAMP) promoting poly(I:C)-induced pulmonary coagulopathy. Transcriptomic analyses across human and murine viral pneumonia datasets revealed robust NMI upregulation, which strongly correlated with coagulation markers. Mechanistically, extracellular NMI activates alveolar epithelial STAT3 signaling, directly upregulating TF to initiate the extrinsic coagulation cascade. In vivo, Nmi ablation or pharmacological STAT3 inhibition significantly attenuated lung microthrombosis and coagulopathy. Notably, this protective phenotype in Nmi knockout mice was reversed by recombinant NMI administration.Our findings elucidate the NMI-STAT3-TF axis as a key contributor to pulmonary coagulopathy. Targeting this axis may offer a potential preclinical therapeutic strategy for managing thrombotic complications in virus-induced lung inflammation.Copyright © 2026 Zhang, Zhou, Mu, Zheng, Qin and Liang.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42421970 is a review article
Histone deacetylase 7 (HDAC7), a classical HDAC family member, promotes LPS-inducible glycolysis and inflammatory mediator production in macrophages, innate immune cells that contribute to pathology in metabolic diseases. Here, we investigated myeloid HDAC7 functions in obesity-driven metabolic disease.We used gain- and loss-of-function genetic approaches in mice to investigate myeloid HDAC7 functions in hepatic inflammation and metabolic disease, as well as associations with hepatic gene signatures characteristic of advanced chronic liver disease (CLD).Transgenic expression of Hdac7 in myeloid cells increased liver inflammation and liver mRNA levels of Ccl2 and Il1b, key inflammatory mediators linked to CLD. Liver glycogen levels were also decreased, another feature of CLD. Transgenic expression of Hdac7 in myeloid cells mimicked the hepatic inflammatory phenotype that was observed in mice fed a high fat, high cholesterol and high sucrose (HFHCHS) diet, an obesity model that mimics some features of metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease. In myeloid Hdac7 transgenic mice fed a HFHCHS diet, relative weight gain was increased, fasted glucose levels were elevated, and glucose tolerance was dysregulated by comparison to control mice. Conversely, fasted blood glucose levels were reduced and glucose tolerance was improved in myeloid Hdac7-deleted mice on a HFHCHS diet. HDAC7 mRNA levels were also elevated in the livers of people with advanced CLD and spatial transcriptomics revealed that myeloid HDAC7 directs hepatic gene signatures characteristic of advanced CLD.Myeloid HDAC7 contributes to hepatic inflammation and systemic glucose dysregulation in a mouse model of obesity and liver inflammation.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical & Translational Immunology published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Australian and New Zealand Society for Immunology, Inc.
Pathological cardiac hypertrophy is a major precursor to heart failure, yet the transcriptional mechanisms that restrain maladaptive remodeling remain incompletely defined. Class IIa histone deacetylases (HDAC4, HDAC5, and HDAC9) modulate cardiac hypertrophy but exhibit paradoxical effects, underscoring the need for more precise therapeutic targets. Unlike other Class IIa HDACs, HDAC7 is not expressed in adult cardiomyocytes (CMs), and its role in cardiac stress responses is unknown.We used molecular, biochemical, and physiological approaches in vitro and in vivo to determine whether HDAC7 overexpression protects against pathological cardiac hypertrophy.HDAC7 overexpression attenuated angiotensin II-induced cardiomyocyte enlargement and reduced hypertrophic gene expression (ANF, BNP, βMHC) in neonatal mouse and human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived CMs. In vivo, HDAC7 markedly reduced transverse aortic constriction-induced cardiac hypertrophy, fibrosis, and functional decline, while preventing stress-induced transcriptional reprogramming. Mechanistically, HDAC7 directly interacts with the pro-hypertrophic transcription factor MEF2D and represses its target genes (Actc1, Tnni3, Myl2). A MEF2-binding-deficient HDAC7 mutant (HDAC7-L112A) failed to confer protection, demonstrating that MEF2 repression is essential for HDAC7-mediated effects.HDAC7 is a distinct Class IIa HDAC that suppresses pathological cardiac remodeling via a HDAC7-MEF2D axis, highlighting a potential epigenetic strategy to prevent heart failure progression.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Obesity-associated inflammation is partly driven by damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs). However, whether and how these molecules directly restrain energy expenditure and thereby exacerbate metabolic dysfunction remains unclear. Here, we identify N-Myc and STAT interactor (NMI) as a stress-responsive adipokine that suppresses adaptive thermogenesis. NMI expression and secretion are increased in adipocytes exposed to dietary stress and inflammatory cues. Genetic ablation of Nmi protects mice from diet-induced obesity (DIO) through enhanced energy expenditure and cold tolerance driven by augmented brown adipose tissue (BAT) thermogenesis and white adipose tissue (WAT) browning. Mechanistically, adipose tissue-derived NMI activates TLR4/IRF3 signaling, which transcriptionally represses the core thermogenic regulators PPARα, PGC-1α, and UCP1. Therapeutically, neutralization of NMI with a monoclonal antibody ameliorates obesity and reduces adipose tissue macrophage infiltration in DIO mice. Together, our findings establish NMI as an adipokine that couples inflammatory signaling with suppressed energy expenditure, highlighting its therapeutic potential for obesity and associated metabolic disorders.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Interferon Stimulated Genes (ISGs) construct innate immunity as the first line of defense against pathogenic invasion, yet they can also aggravate disease under uncontrollable conditions. NMI and IFP35 are a homologous pair of ISGs, which also have been identified as novel Damage Associated Molecular Patterns (DAMPs) factor and implicated in immune response, immune signaling regulation and inflammatory diseases. However, the structural information of their distinct domain, called NMI-IFP35 domain (NID) that shares limited homology with known protein families, still remains poorly understood. In this study, we present three crystal structures of NID from NMI and IFP35, two of which are non-swapped dimers and one domain swapped IFP35-NID octamer, illustrating conformational diversity which hints at diverse structural oligomerization of NID. Molecular dynamic simulation identifies critical residues within dimer interface through which oligomerization of NIDs is built up, and reveals that different types of turns foster hinge loop region for domain swapping. These findings advance our understanding of the structure of NID domain and provide mechanistic insights into how NMI and IFP35 form higher-order complex during innate immune response. In addition, these structures provide molecular basis for developing therapeutics for inflammatory diseases targeting NMI and IFP35.© 2026 The Authors.
Class IIa histone deacetylase 7 (HDAC7) regulates transcription primarily through scaffolding functions, but its molecular mechanisms in cancer pathogenesis remain incompletely understood. Here, we establish HDAC7 as a key epigenetic regulator in colorectal cancer (CRC). HDAC7 is overexpressed in CRC tumors and correlates with advanced disease stages, lymph node metastasis, and poor patient survival. Mechanistically, HDAC7 scaffolds a repressive complex with HDAC3 and the stress-responsive transcription factor ATF3. This reduces H3K27ac/H3K18ac occupancy and blocks BRD4/RNA polymerase II (Pol II) recruitment at ATF3 regulatory regions to epigenetically silence its transcription. Consequently, this repression inactivates ATF3's tumor-suppressive functions, activating oncogenic PI3K-Akt signaling while suppressing the Hippo pathway. Genetic depletion or pharmacological inhibition of HDAC7 disrupts this repressive complex, triggering a functional switch in ATF3. This promotes BRD4/Pol II recruitment and H3K27ac enrichment at the ATF3 locus, enabling ATF3 to undergo transcriptional self-activation. Reactivated ATF3 suppresses CRC proliferation and survival by downregulating Bcl-2, upregulating p21 (CDKN1A) to induce cell cycle arrest, promoting caspase-3-mediated apoptosis, and inhibiting PI3K-Akt signaling. Xenograft studies confirm that HDAC7 depletion suppresses tumorigenicity in vivo. Our work identifies HDAC7 as a molecular mediator that governs ATF3's functional plasticity through competitive cofactor recruitment, positioning HDAC7 inhibition as a therapeutic strategy to reactivate ATF3-mediated tumor suppression in CRC.© The author(s).
Sepsis is prevalent and life-threatening condition that is often associated with high mortality rates. Early stratification is significantly associated with prognosis. Traditional biomarkers show low specificity, while scoring systems are time-consuming. This study aimed to evaluate the predictive value of a novel biomarker (N-myc and STAT interactor (NMI)) in assessing disease severity and clinical outcome in sepsis.A total of 399 adult patients diagnosed with sepsis were recruited. The least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO), logistic regression analysis, and receiver operating characteristic curve (ROC) were used to prove the predictive value of NMI in serum for disease severity (septic shock) and clinical outcome (30-day mortality) in the training set (n = 302). Internal validation (n = 97) was utilized to guarantee the stability of the findings.The study revealed that NMI was independently associated with 30-day mortality and the occurrence of septic shock through LASSO and logistic analysis. The NMI concentrations of patients with septic shock (166.1 [98.8, 437.5]) and non-survivors (208.7 [113.5, 809.6]) were higher than those of sepsis patients (54.2 [45.4, 64.8]) and survivors (59.3 [48.0, 90.2]), respectively. The area under the curve (AUC) of NMI for predicting mortality and septic shock was 0.86 and 0.92, respectively, which significantly outperformed other biomarkers and scoring systems. The AUCs of new scoring systems containing NMI were all remarkably higher than the original scoring systems (APACHE II, SOFA, qSOFA) for the prediction of clinical outcome and disease severity. Stratification of NMI concentrations in Kaplan-Meier survival curves proved the 30-day survival rate decreased with the increasing level of NMI (P < 0.001).Serum NMI can serve as a novel parameter to predict the severity and clinical outcome of sepsis, potentially facilitating timely disease stratification and providing certain guidance for clinical decision-making.Copyright © 2026 Leng, Zhou, Zhang, Zeng, Xia, Cheng and Xu.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42103401
Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) "membrane-cytoplasmic-nuclear translocation" occurs in EGFR-19del lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) following resistance to tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs). This study aimed to elucidate the mechanism of TKI resistance conferred by nuclear EGFR-19del.RNA sequencing and immunohistochemistry were performed to assess histone deacetylase 7 (HDAC7) expression in LUAD with TKI resistance. Functional assays were performed both in vitro and in vivo to assess the effects of changes in HDAC7 expression on the malignant phenotype of LUAD cells and drug sensitivity to TKIs. Mass spectrometry and dual-luciferase assays were performed to verify the effect of changes in HDAC7 expression on the Hippo pathway. Chromatin immunoprecipitation and coimmunoprecipitation assays were conducted to clarify the potential role of EGFR-19del in the cell nucleus.EGFR-19del nuclear translocation correlated with elevated HDAC7 expression in TKI-resistant cells. HDAC7 overexpression promoted malignancy and reduced TKI sensitivity, whereas HDAC7 knockdown or TSA treatment suppressed tumour growth and enhanced TKI sensitivity in vivo. Mechanistically, HDAC7 interacts with large tumour suppressor kinase 1 (LATS1) and promotes its deacetylation at K688, which reduced T1079 phosphorylation, thereby inhibiting the Hippo pathway. Concurrently, nuclear EGFR-19del acts as a coactivator to accelerate HDAC7 transcription through signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3).We elucidated the underlying mechanism by which nuclear EGFR-19del inhibits the Hippo pathway; these results indicate that TKIs and HDAC inhibitors may serve as a potential therapeutic strategy to reduce drug resistance in LUAD with EGFR-19del.© The author(s).
Peripherally derived adiponectin crosses the blood-brain barrier and targets severa0l brain regions. Adiponectin receptors are highly expressed in the hippocampus, and play a pro-cognitive role as adiponectin markedly influences the functioning of hippocampal synapses. Trafficking of AMPA receptors underlies activity-dependent hippocampal synaptic plasticity, but it is unclear if adiponectin influences this process. Here, we examined the effects of he adiponectin receptor agonist, AdipoRon, on AMPA receptor trafficking and hippocampal excitatory synaptic function.Immunocytochemistry combined with confocal microscopy was used to monitor the surface expression of the AMPA receptor subunit, GluA1, in hippocampal neurons cultured from neonatal (P0-4) rats. Extracellular field potential recordings were used to monitor excitatory synaptic transmission in hippocampal slices from juvenile male (P14-24) Sprague Dawley rats.AdipoRon increased GluA1 surface expression and delivered GluA1-containing AMPA receptors to synapses. In hippocampal slices, AdipoRon increased excitatory synaptic transmission, maintained during recordings, and AdipoRon enhanced hippocampal long-term potentiation. Effects of AdipoRon on AMPA receptor trafficking involved AdipoRon receptors, as these effects were mirrored by the adiponectin receptor agonist, ADP355 and blocked by the antagonist, ADP400. AdipoRon-driven increases in surface GluA1 required GluN2A-containing NMDA receptor activation. Effects of AdipoRon on GluA1 expression and synaptic plasticity involved AMPK signalling.These data show that AdipoRon trafficked GluA1-containing AMPA receptors to synapses and facilitated hippocampal synaptic plasticity via activation of AMPK. These findings have important implications for the role of adiponectin in regulating hippocampal synaptic function in health and disease.© 2026 The Author(s). British Journal of Pharmacology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of British Pharmacological Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42547642 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42536956 is a review article
The NOD-like receptor Family, pyrin domain-containing 3 protein (NLRP3) inflammasome is a macromolecular complex critical for inflammatory responses. Its excessive activation or improper regulation is intimately associated with the development of various inflammatory diseases. However, currently available drugs directly targeting the NLRP3 inflammasome are limited. In preliminary analyses, detecting the level of secreted interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β) revealed that betamethasone-17,21-dipropionate (also known as betamethasone dipropionate, BD), a clinically used glucocorticoid, potentially inhibits NLRP3 inflammasome activation.In vitro, the role and preliminary mechanism of BD in inhibiting the activation of NLRP3 inflammasome were investigated in THP-1-differentiated macrophages and bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), and western blotting (WB). The preliminary effects of BD on the assembly of NLRP3 inflammasome were assessed in HEK293T cells overexpressing NLRP3/ASC/caspase-1/NEK7 through drug affinity responsive target stability (DARTS) and co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) approaches. In vivo, the effect of BD on LPS-induced systemic inflammation was assessed by measuring serum concentrations of IL-1β and TNF-α via ELISA, and by recording mouse survival rates and body weights.BD significantly inhibited NLRP3 inflammasome activation by suppressing pro-IL-1β expression in vitro. Mechanistic studies showed that it decreased pro-IL-1β expression by suppressing NF-κB signaling. In vivo, BD downregulated the serum concentrations of IL-1β and TNF-α, and increase the survival rate of mice using the LPS-induced systemic inflammation model.Collectively, our data verify that BD inhibits NLRP3 inflammasome activation by suppressing pro-IL-1β expression. These findings suggest that BD may be a potential therapeutic approach for inflammatory diseases. However, further studies are needed to elucidate its precise role and specific mechanism in clinical practice.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42528603 is a review article
Climate change driven heat stress (HS) causes major losses in the productive and reproductive performance of swine. Using temperature-humidity index (THI) based quantification of heat load as a framework, this review integrates HS effects across the endocrine and metabolic axis, the gut barrier microbiota, immune axis, and the reproductive axis. Heat stress, in the context of hypothalamic, pituitary, adrenal (HPA) sympathetic-adrenomedullary activation and insulin, catecholamine, and cortisol crosstalk, is accompanied by relative hyperinsulinemia and, via pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase 4 mediated pyruvate dehydrogenase inhibition and the lactate dehydrogenase/hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α) axis, repartitions substrate utilization toward glucose, thereby constraining lipid mobilization. Within the gut immune axis, β-diversity, centered dysbiosis and short chain fatty acids (SCFA) depletion weaken HIF-1α, dependent mucosal barrier defenses; together with increased lipopolysaccharide translocation, this hyperactivates TLR4/ NF-κB signaling, the NLR family pyrin domain containing 3 inflammasome, and Th17/IL-17 pathways. Evidence from fecal microbiota transplantation supports a causal role for dysbiosis in pathogenesis. In the reproductive axis, dysregulated hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal-HPA crosstalk impairs follicular and luteal function and compromises placental nutrient transport; intrauterine HS can reprogram F1 offspring, with lasting effects on metabolism, immunity, and reproduction. In conclusion, HS is a systems level stressor that perturbs multiple physiological axes; progress will require standardized HS models, multi omics and multigenerational follow up, and integrated environment, nutrition, and management strategies. Beta diversity shifts in the gut microbiota and SCFA depletion emerge as core pathophysiologic mediators, supporting their use as early biomarkers and intervention targets and underscoring the need for focused investigation.
Rosacea is a chronic inflammatory skin disorder driven by dysregulated cathelicidin processing and excessive LL-37, which triggers a circuit involving Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2)/kallikrein-5 (KLK5)-dependent amplification and downstream mechanistic target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1), NF-κB, and NLR family pyrin domain containing 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome pathways. We hypothesized that poly-D,L-lactic acid (PDLLA) could attenuate this inflammatory cascade by inducing macrophage-derived interleukin (IL)-10. PDLLA increased IL-10 secretion from THP-1-derived macrophages in a dose-dependent manner. In LL-37-stimulated HaCaT keratinocytes, LL-37 decreased phosphorylated signal transducer and activator of transcription (pSTAT3)/STAT3, DNA damage-inducible transcript 4 (DDIT4), and phosphorylated AMP-activated protein kinase (pAMPK)/AMPK while increasing phosphorylated protein kinase B (pAKT)/AKT and mTORC1 activation; conditioned media from PDLLA-treated macrophages (CMPDLLA) restored pSTAT3/STAT3, DDIT4, and pAMPK/AMPK, reduced pAKT/AKT, and suppressed pmTOR/mTOR. CMPDLLA attenuated downstream inflammatory responses, including NF-κB nuclear translocation, VEGF production, and NLRP3-inflammasome-mediated IL-18 secretion. These findings were validated using an intradermal LL-37-injected mouse model. Compared with the normal control/saline group, LL-37/saline decreased IL-10, pSTAT3/STAT3, DDIT4, and pAMPK/AMPK while increasing pAKT/AKT, pmTOR/mTOR, pS6K/S6K, TLR2/KLK5/LL-37, NF-κB, VEGF, and NLRP3 inflammasome/IL-18 signaling; PDLLA partially restored the STAT3/DDIT4-AMPK regulatory pattern and suppressed these disease-associated signals. Consequently, PDLLA treatment led to a pronounced reduction in clinical lesion area. Overall, PDLLA may attenuate LL-37-driven cutaneous inflammation by promoting an IL-10-linked STAT3/DDIT4-AKT/AMPK program that suppresses mTORC1 and disrupts cathelicidin amplification, supporting its potential as an injectable immunomodulatory approach for rosacea-like skin inflammation.
Diabetic cardiomyopathy (DCM) under glucolipotoxic stress is sustained by a reactive oxygen species (ROS)-driven circuit in which oxidative DNA damage and nitrosative injury prime NLR family pyrin domain containing 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome assembly, triggering caspase-1 activation, gasdermin D (GSDMD) cleavage, and pyroptotic cardiomyocyte death that propagates apoptosis and fibrotic remodeling. Whether melatonin can disrupt this oxidative-pyroptotic axis when both hyperglycemia and dyslipidemia coexist, the metabolic context most refractory to current therapy has not been established. Apolipoprotein E-deficient (ApoE-/-) mice were subjected to streptozotocin-induced hyperglycemia and high-fat diet-induced dyslipidemia, then treated with oral melatonin (20 mg/kg/day) for 8 weeks. Despite unchanged fasting glycemia, melatonin attenuated cardiac oxidative stress, reducing 8-OHdG and inducible nitric oxide synthase while restoring Nrf2. Suppression of nuclear factor-κB and NLRP3 was accompanied by lowered interleukin-1β, caspase-1, and GSDMD, indicating disrupted inflammasome priming and pyroptotic execution. Downstream pathology was concurrently attenuated, with reduced TUNEL-positive cardiomyocytes, normalized Bax/Bcl-2 ratio, lower natriuretic peptide expression, diminished interstitial fibrosis, and improved electrocardiographic parameters. These findings position melatonin as a cardioprotective agent that operates despite persistent fasting hyperglycemia, acting through combined attenuation of lipid burden, cumulative glycemic stress, oxidative stress, and inflammatory signaling to arrest downstream apoptotic and fibrotic remodeling under glucolipotoxic conditions, providing a mechanistic rationale for adjunctive melatonin therapy in DCM.
Endothelial senescence contributes to the development and progression of atherosclerosis. Poliumoside (Pol), a natural compound with diverse bioactivities, has been shown to attenuate oxidative stress and inflammation, major triggers of senescence. As the role of Pol in Human Umbilical Vein Endothelial Cells (HUVECs) senescence remains elusive, this study aimed to determine whether Pol protects against atherosclerosis by modulating senescence in HUVECs and to elucidate the underlying mechanisms. In the present study, compared with ApoE-/- control group, Pol reduced senescence marker expression and SA-β-gal-positive area in aortic tissue, and alleviated autophagy dysfunction, thereby attenuating vascular senescence and atherosclerotic lesions. In vitro, Pol suppressed the upregulation of p16, p21, and p53 in senescent HUVECs, decreased Senescence-Associated Secretory Phenotype (SASP) levels, improved autophagy dysfunction, and reduced oxidative stress. Mechanistically, Pol bound to Makorin Ring Finger Protein 2 (MKRN2) and inhibited phosphorylation of the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway, mitigating H₂O₂-induced suppression of autophagy and improving cellular senescence. Furthermore, siRNA-mediated downregulation of MKRN2 reversed the effects of Pol on the signaling pathway and autophagy, and attenuated its protective effect against senescence. In summary, Pol attenuates autophagy dysfunction in senescent HUVECs by inhibiting the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway via MKRN2, providing a potential therapeutic strategy for cellular senescence and atherosclerosis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The complex pathogenesis of acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) underscores the therapeutic potential of targeting lung epithelial cell apoptosis. Makorin ring finger protein 2 (MKRN2), functioning as an E3 ubiquitin ligase, plays a critical role in regulating cell proliferation and apoptosis by specifically recognizing and promoting the degradation of p53. However, the precise mechanisms by which MKRN2 contributes to ARDS progression remain poorly understood. In this study, we employed adenovirus-mediated gene delivery, siRNA interference, and overexpression plasmid transfection to manipulate MKRN2 expression levels. LPS was used to induce both in vivo and in vitro models of ARDS. Histopathological changes in lung tissue and mitochondrial ultrastructure were examined using HE staining and transmission electron microscopy. Inflammatory factors, reactive oxygen species (ROS), and apoptosis rates were quantified using ELISA and flow cytometry. Cell apoptosis was further validated using TUNEL assay. The expression levels of MKRN2, p53, and associated apoptotic proteins were evaluated by real-time fluorescence quantitative PCR, immunofluorescence, and western blotting. Transcriptome sequencing was performed to elucidate the regulatory role of MKRN2 on the p53 pathway, while Co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) and ubiquitination assays were used to confirm the direct interaction between MKRN2 and p53. Our results showed that MKRN2 overexpression significantly alleviated LPS-induced lung injury both in vivo and in vitro models, as evidenced by reduced inflammatory factor release, decreased ROS production, improved mitochondrial morphology, and suppressed apoptosis, primarily through downregulation of the pro-apoptotic factor p53. In contrast, MKRN2 silencing exacerbated these injuries. Transcriptome analysis further supported that MKRN2 modulates apoptosis via the p53 signaling pathway, and Co-IP experiments confirmed that MKRN2 promotes the ubiquitination and subsequent degradation of p53. Collectively, these findings suggest that MKRN2 exerts protective effects against LPS-induced lung tissue injury by targeting p53 for ubiquitin-mediated degradation.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.
The distinct human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I expression pattern of human extravillous trophoblasts (EVT) endows them with unique tolerogenic properties that enable successful pregnancy. Nevertheless, how this process is elaborately regulated remains elusive. Previously, E74 like ETS transcription factor 3 (ELF3) was identified to govern high-level HLA-C expression in EVT. In the present study, ELF3 is found to bind to the enhancer region of two adjacent NOD-like receptor (NLR) genes, NLR family pyrin domain-containing 2 and 7 (NLRP2, NLRP7). Notably, our analysis of ELF3-deficient JEG-3 cells, a human choriocarcinoma cell line widely used to study EVT biology, suggests that ELF3 transactivates NLRP7 while suppressing the expression of NLRP2. Moreover, we find that NLRP2 and NLRP7 have opposing effects on HLA-C expression, thus implicating them in immune evasion at the maternal-fetal interface. We confirmed that NLRP2 suppresses HLA-C levels and described a unique role for NLRP7 in promoting HLA-C expression in JEG-3. These results suggest that these two NLR genes, which arose via gene duplication in primates, are fine-tuned by ELF3 yet have acquired divergent functions to enable proper expression levels of HLA-C in EVT, presumably through modulating the degradation kinetics of IkBα. Targeting the ELF3-NLRP2/NLRP7-HLA-C axis may hold therapeutic potential for managing pregnancy-related disorders, such as recurrent hydatidiform moles and fetal growth restriction, and thus improve placental development and pregnancy outcomes.
The tripartite motif family, predominantly characterized by its E3 ubiquitin ligase activities, is involved in various cellular processes including signal transduction, apoptosis and autophagy, protein quality control, immune regulation, and carcinogenesis. Tripartite Motif Containing 15 (TRIM15) plays an important role in melanoma progression through extracellular signal-regulated kinase activation; however, data on its role in pancreatic tumors remain lacking. We previously demonstrated that TRIM15 targeted lipid synthesis and metabolism in pancreatic cancer; however, other specific regulatory mechanisms remain elusive.We used transcriptomics and proteomics, conducted a series of phenotypic experiments, and used a mouse orthotopic transplantation model to study the specific mechanism of TRIM15 in pancreatic cancer in vitro and in vivo.TRIM15 overexpression promoted the progression of pancreatic cancer by upregulating the toll-like receptor 4. The TRIM15 binding protein, IGF2BP2, could combine with TLR4 to inhibit its mRNA degradation. Furthermore, the ubiquitin level of IGF2BP2 was positively correlated with TRIM15.TRIM15 could ubiquitinate IGF2BP2 to enhance the function of phase separation and the maintenance of mRNA stability of TLR4. TRIM15 is a potential therapeutic target against pancreatic cancer.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 37735978 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 17376027 is a review article
