This study aimed to evaluate the modifying effects and joint associations of handgrip strength (HGS) and bone mineral density (BMD) with all-cause mortality, with an exploratory analysis of cardiovascular disease (CVD) mortality. A primary analysis cohort ( n = 11150) and a replication cohort ( n = 5952) were included. Cox proportional hazards regression, restricted cubic spline analysis, and interaction analysis were used to examine the associations of BMD with mortality across relative HGS groups. Relative HGS was defined as absolute HGS divided by body weight. The joint effects of BMD-HGS combinations were assessed. During a median follow-up of 9.75 and 6.59 years, the primary analysis and replication cohorts recorded 1345 and 352 all-cause deaths, respectively. In the primary analysis cohort, low BMD was associated with an increased all-cause mortality risk in both the low and high relative HGS groups (hazard ratio [HR] = 1.26, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.04-1.52 and HR = 1.42, 95% CI: 1.16-1.74, respectively), with consistent findings in the replication cohort. No significant interaction was found between relative HGS and BMD ( P > 0.05). Participants with low BMD and low relative HGS had a 59%-62% higher risk of all-cause mortality than those with high BMD and high relative HGS in both cohorts, and the estimated PAR% for this combined exposure was 10.8%-13.1%. Results for CVD mortality were inconsistent across cohorts. In conclusion, low BMD with low handgrip strength is consistently associated with increased all-cause mortality, suggesting combined screening may benefit high-risk individuals.
Chronic kidney disease (CKD) can impair respiratory, muscle, and functional capacity. This randomized controlled trial investigated the effects of fundamental and functional inspiratory muscle training (IMT) delivered via telerehabilitation in patients with non-dialysis CKD.Sixty patients were randomized to fundamental IMT, functional IMT, or control groups. Thirty-eight participants completed the study and were analyzed: fundamental IMT (n = 13), functional IMT (n = 13), and control (n = 12). Maximal inspiratory pressure (MIP) and maximal expiratory pressure (MEP), strength index (S-Index), peak inspiratory flow (PIF), respiratory muscle endurance, diaphragmatic thickness and mobility, quadriceps muscle strength (QMS) and hand grip strength (HGS), trunk muscle endurance (partial sit-ups, prone, side, and pelvic bridge tests) and 6-minute walk test (6MWT) were assessed before and after 10 weeks.Compared with the control group, both intervention groups showed significant increases in MIP, MEP, S-Index, PIF, diaphragmatic mobility, QMS, HGS, trunk muscle endurance, and 6MWT distance (p < 0.05). Functional IMT resulted in greater improvements than fundamental IMT in respiratory muscle endurance, peripheral muscle strength, and trunk muscle function. Although 6MWT distance increased numerically more in the functional IMT group, the difference between the two IMT groups was not statistically significant (p > 0.05).Functional IMT delivered via telerehabilitation may provide additional benefits over fundamental IMT for inspiratory muscle endurance and musculoskeletal function in patients with non-dialysis CKD. Both IMT modalities improved functional capacity compared with control. These findings support the potential integration of functional IMT into telerehabilitation-based rehabilitation programs for CKD.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Current understanding of mercury sulfide nanoparticles (HgS NPs) fails to adequately capture their long-term effects in soil-rice systems, particularly the dynamic interplay between NPs, rice plants, and soil microbes under field-relevant conditions. In this study, single-particle inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (spICP-MS) delineated a soil-to-grain mercury pathway mediated by HgS NPs at environmentally realistic concentrations (108-109 NPs g-1). Across the 111-day rice growth cycle, HgS NPs functioned as both vectors for plant uptake and key precursors for methylmercury (MeHg) formation, thereby defining grain mercury risk. Mercury-containing NPs detected in roots can be translocated to grains, with the filling stage as the critical window. Soil methylation displayed marked temporal dynamics (MeHg: 0.1-25.1 μg kg-1), governed by Hg bioavailability (glutathione-leachable mercury) and methylator abundance (hgcA gene copy number). Notably, exposure produced opposing yield outcomes: grain weight increased by 47 ± 20% at 108 NPs g-1 but decreased by 23 ± 12% at 109 NPs g-1, while total mercury accumulated to 27.1-147.9 ng g-1 in brown rice at both doses, underscoring concurrent threats to yield and food safety. This refined understanding advocates for an integrated mitigation approach: growth-stage management to block filling-phase translocation into grains, combined with targeted soil interventions to inhibit MeHg formation, thereby mitigating dietary mercury exposure from rice.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Lignocellulosic biomass is a renewable carbon source with strong potential to partially replace fossil resources. However, its valorization into high-value products remains constrained by technical, economic, and environmental challenges. Fractionation is therefore a critical step in biorefinery design to enable efficient utilization of cellulose, hemicellulose, and lignin. This study developed a sequential hydrothermal (HT)-Organosolv fractionation process of rice straw. The strategy produces fermentable sugars, xylooligosaccharides (XOS) and lignin co-products for industrial applications. Under optimized conditions, the process achieved an XOS production of 18.82 g/L, and a fermentable sugar yield of 618.6 g/kg biomass, with an enzymatic hydrolysis efficiency of 94.2%. Simultaneously, the organosolv step facilitated effective lignin recovery. The extracted lignin retained its characteristic aromatic structure (H/G/S units), highlighting its potential as a bioactive co-product for further valorization. The process demonstrated an energy efficiency of 724.3 g fermentable sugars per kWh, while E-factor was in a range of 0.09-0.12. In addition, a techno-economic assessment was conducted for multiple product pathways, including lactic acid, xylooligosaccharides, and organosolv lignin. Overall, the integration of HT and organosolv pretreatments improve sugar yield, enables lignin recovery, reduce energy demand, and minimize waste, offering a promising approach for sustainable lignocellulosic biorefineries.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Sarcopenia, the age-related decline in muscle mass and strength is a growing challenge for older adults. This study investigates whether meeting the WHO physical activity guidelines (150-300 min/week of moderate or 75 min/week of vigorous exercise) with higher protein intake, based on the RDA, is associated with appendicular lean soft tissue index (ALSTI) and handgrip strength (HGS) in adults living in the United States aged 40-59 years. Data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 2007-2020 included 2540 adults aged ≥40 years. Physical activity (moderate/vigorous) was self-reported, while higher protein intake was assessed via two 24-hour recalls (>0.8 g/kg/bodyweight). Linear regressions, adjusted for age, sex, BMI, race, education, comorbidities, and energy-adjusted protein intake were used to assess associations with ALSTI and HGS. In fully adjusted models, vigorous activity with higher protein intake (47.1 ± 5.6 years) was associated with ALSTI only after adjustments for age, sex, BMI, race, education (β = 0.37, SE 0.17, p = 0.047; mean baseline: 8.56 ± 1.67 kg/m2). No associations were found in the fully adjusted model for ALSTI (p = 0.31), and across all models for HGS (mean baseline: 43.6 ± 10.1 kg). Moderate activity with higher protein intake was not associated with HGS or ALSTI across adjusted models. Meeting vigorous or moderate-intensity activity guidelines with higher than the RDA protein intake was not associated with ALSTI or HGS in middle-aged US adults.© The Author(s) 2026.
The efficient conversion of CO2 into value-added C3 chemicals is highly desirable yet remains challenging due to the complex multi-electron transfer and C-C coupling processes involved. In particular, acetone is an industrially important solvent and chemical feedstock, and its direct synthesis from CO2 via photocatalysis represents a sustainable alternative to fossil-based routes. Herein, we report chiral CuO/HgS heterojunction photocatalysts for additive-free photocatalytic CO2 reduction to acetone. Chiral CuO and HgS were synthesized using chiral molecules as symmetry-directing agents and subsequently assembled into heterojunctions with controlled handedness combinations. Structural and spectroscopic analyses confirm the successful construction of chiral interfaces. Photocatalytic tests reveal that the heterojunction catalysts exhibit significantly enhanced CO2 conversion efficiency and acetone selectivity compared to single components. The optimized system delivers improved charge separation efficiency, increased photocurrent response, and prolonged carrier lifetimes. This work demonstrates an effective heterojunction design strategy for promoting C3 product formation from CO2 and provides a sustainable approach for green acetone synthesis.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Subtotal esophagectomy with retrosternal gastric tube reconstruction alters upper gastrointestinal anatomy and can create two obstacles to endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP): displacement and rotation of the pylorus and proximal duodenum, which impede side-viewing duodenoscopy, and ampullary carcinoma, which may obscure the bile duct orifice and prevent selective cannulation. When endoscopic drainage fails, endoscopic ultrasound-guided hepaticogastrostomy (EUS-HGS) offers an alternative route for internal biliary decompression. Reports of EUS-HGS performed from within a retrosternal gastric tube conduit are limited. A 79-year-old woman with prior subtotal esophagectomy and retrosternal gastric tube reconstruction presented with acute cholangitis and obstructive jaundice caused by ampullary adenocarcinoma. ERCP was abandoned because tumor infiltration obscured the bile duct orifice. EUS-HGS was performed on the same day through the gastric conduit. A 19-gauge puncture and a double-guidewire technique enabled placement of a 7-Fr, 14-cm plastic stent without adverse events. Cholangitis resolved, diet was resumed four days later, and the stent remained patent at 57 days. Histology confirmed adenocarcinoma. EUS-HGS via a retrosternal gastric tube conduit was feasible and achieved internal biliary drainage in a patient with complex post-esophagectomy anatomy and failed ERCP.Copyright © 2026, Takahashi et al.
An-Gong-Niu-Huang Wan (AGNHW) is a traditional Chinese medicine preparation containing cinnabar (HgS). However, its clinical use has been controversial due to concerns regarding mercury nephrotoxicity. To evaluate the renal toxicity, mice were administered AGNHW, cinnabar, methylmercury (MeHg), and mercuric chloride (HgCl₂) for 28 days. Blood biochemistry, histopathology, and the expression of nephrotoxicity-sensitive genes were assessed. To assess the health risks associated with AGNHW, we established an innovative Physiologically Based Extraction Test (IPBET) /small intestinal organ-on-a-chip model for the first time to simulate gastrointestinal digestion and absorption of mercury from AGNHW. This organ-on-a-chip model with HPLC-ICP-MS enabled the first determination of bioavailable mercury species in AGNHW. Urinary creatinine (UCr), total protein (TP), kidney injury molecule-1 (Kim-1), α1-microglobulin (a1-MG), N-cadherin levels, and histological findings in the MeHg and HgCl₂ groups showed significant differences compared to the control, cinnabar, and AGNHW groups. The expression of F4/80, CD11b, and MMP7 was markedly altered in the MeHg group. Our organ-on-a-chip model revealed that bioavailable MeHg in the MeHg group was 298-fold and 27-fold higher compared to the control and AGNHW groups. Our refined risk assessment indicated that, when adjusted by bioavailability and speciation, the health risks associated with mercury exposure from AGNHW consumption were acceptable. Collectively, considering bioavailability and mercury species, our IPBET/small intestinal organ-on-a-chip provides a novel approach for assessing cinnabar exposure risks in AGNHW. Our study provides a scientific basis that AGNHW and cinnabar are much less nephrotoxic than HgCl2 and MeHg, and does not pose a significant threat to human health clinically.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Background Muscle strength is a key factor determining metabolic health, physical performance, and morbidity. Although body mass index (BMI) is used widely to assess obesity, it does not assess body composition adequately. Percentage body fat (PBF) could provide a better estimate of adiposity and its association with muscle strength, particularly in Asian populations with higher body fat at lower BMI levels. We aimed to evaluate the associations of BMI and PBF with HGS and lower limb muscle strength among North Indian adults and to compare the independent associations of BMI and PBF with HGS. Methodology This cross-sectional study included 1,513 apparently healthy adults aged 18 to 60 years. Anthropometric measurements, BMI, and PBF were measured using bioelectrical impedance analysis. HGS was measured using a Jamar hydraulic dynamometer, and lower limb muscle strength was tested using a handheld dynamometer. Correlation and multiple regression analyses were performed to assess the association of BMI and PBF with muscle strength. Results The average age of the participants was 38.25 ± 9.76 years, and 54.5% were males. PBF showed a significant inverse association with HGS for both hands. For the right HGS, the regression coefficient B was -0.619 with an R² of 0.331, while for the left HGS, B was -0.594 with an R² of 0.336 (p < 0.001 for both). However, BMI showed a comparatively weaker association with HGS, explaining less than 2% of the variation. Higher BMI was significantly associated with greater lower limb muscle strength (p < 0.001), while no significant association was found between BMI categories and HGS. Multivariable regression analysis further showed that PBF remained independently associated with HGS (p-value < 0.001 for both hands). Conclusions According to our study, PBF demonstrated a stronger association with muscle strength than BMI. These findings show that relying on BMI alone is insufficient and suggest including body composition assessment to identify individuals at risk of reduced muscle strength and related health complications.Copyright © 2026, Baitha et al.
Obesity and low handgrip strength (HGS) have both been associated with cognitive impairment and dementia, but their combined association remains unclear. This study examined the association of obesity and low HGS, separately and jointly, with cognitive impairment and probable dementia in older Colombian adults.A secondary cross-sectional analysis was conducted using data from the Colombian Health, Well-Being, and Aging Survey (SABE Colombia 2015). The analytic sample included 4,656 community-dwelling adults aged ≥60 years. Obesity was defined as body mass index ≥30 kg/m2, and low HGS was defined using EWGSOP2 sex-specific cut-off points (<27 kg for men and <16 kg for women). Cognitive impairment was assessed using a revised version of the Mini-Mental State Examination. Probable dementia was defined as the co-occurrence of cognitive impairment and at least two limitations in instrumental activities of daily living.Cognitive impairment was present in 12.2% of men and 14.2% of women, while probable dementia was observed in 4.9% of men and 6.6% of women. Low HGS, with or without obesity, was associated with higher odds of cognitive impairment in both sexes. For probable dementia, low HGS was associated with higher odds in both sexes, whereas obesity combined with low HGS was significantly associated with probable dementia only in women in the fully adjusted model. Obesity with normal HGS was not associated with either outcome.Low HGS, rather than obesity alone, was associated with cognitive impairment and probable dementia in Colombian older adults. These findings support the relevance of considering muscular function when examining cognitive health in later life.Copyright © 2026 Ramírez-Vélez, Borda, Calderón-González, Romero-Martínez, Izquierdo and Pérez-Sousa.
Bullying poses a major risk for poor mental health. While findings from the general population highlight harmful effects of bullying, data from clinical samples with diverse diagnoses and evidence-based diagnostic methods is rare. This study aimed at exploring the association between psychopathology and active bullying involvement in child and adolescent psychotherapy outpatients.The preregistered study ( https://aspredicted.org/VYW_9TT ) included data from N = 719 outpatients aged 6-20 years from a German child and adolescent psychotherapy centre. Current experiences as a victim, bully-victim, or bully and distressing bullying-specific intrusions were assessed with a screening instrument. Gold-standard diagnostic assessment of psychopathology provided categorial ICD-10 diagnoses. The Strength and Difficulties Questionnaire depicted a dimensional proxy measure of psychopathology. Analyses included examining the frequencies of the bullying roles (victim, bully-victim, bully) and the occurrence of distressing bullying-specific intrusions, Pearson's chi-square tests for gender-specific differences, binary logistic regression analyses testing the bullying roles as predictors of ICD-10 diagnoses, and multiple one-way ANOVAs examining group differences on the Strength and Difficulties Questionnaire scores between the bullying roles.29% of all outpatients reported to be actively involved in bullying (22% victims, 5% bully-victims, 2% bullies), with 32% frequently experiencing distressing bullying-specific intrusions. While victims were more likely to have mood disorders (ICD-10 F3 disorders), bully-victims were less likely to have internalising and more likely to have externalising disorders and behavioural and emotional disorders with onset usually occurring in childhood and adolescence (ICD-10 F9 disorders). Bullies were more likely to have multiple disorders but less likely to have internalising disorders. Independent from specific diagnoses, victims, bully-victims, and bullies overall reported greater emotional and behavioural difficulties than outpatients without bullying experiences.Among outpatients in child and adolescent psychotherapy, bullying is linked to specific related psychological burden and role-specific psychopathology. Bullying and related psychological burden should be addressed and routinely assessed in mental health care settings. The link between bullying and psychopathology as well as specific intervention methods may be explored further in future research.© 2026. The Author(s).
Adolescents with depressive symptoms are at increased risk of social functional impairment and are more likely to develop major depressive disorder. Digital interventions offer advantages, such as high accessibility, especially for adolescents. However, evidence on the effectiveness of web-based psychological interventions in alleviating depressive symptoms among adolescents remains limited.This study aims to develop a brief web-based psychological intervention tailored to the developmental and psychological characteristics of Chinese adolescents and to evaluate its effectiveness and influencing factors.In a 2-arm randomized controlled trial, adolescents aged 12 to 18 years with depressive symptoms were recruited from high schools in China. Eligible participants were randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to the intervention group (n=212) or the control group (n=224). Participants in the intervention group received a 4-week brief web-based emotional cognitive training program, whereas those in the control group received a web-based psychoeducation program. Nonprofessional helpers provided minimal support through text messages or phone calls. The primary outcome was depressive symptom severity. Secondary outcomes included the depressive symptom remission rate, changes in anxiety symptoms, suicidal ideation, and resilience. Data were collected at baseline (T0), postintervention (T1), and at 1- and 3-month follow-ups (T2 and T3). Statistical analyses included analysis of covariance (ANCOVA), logistic regression analysis, and mediation analysis.Two-way repeated-measures ANCOVA revealed a significant time effect (F3,1461=82.515; P<.001; η2p=0.140) on depressive symptom severity, with significantly lower scores at T1, T2, and T3 than at T0. No significant group effect (F1,1461=1.039; P=.31; η2p=0.001) or time-by-group interaction (F3,1461=2.424; P=.06; η2p=0.005) for depressive symptom severity was observed. Post hoc exploratory analysis showed that among adolescents with anxiety symptoms, the intervention group exhibited a higher depressive symptom remission rate at T1 than the control group (adjusted odds ratio 1.39, 95% CI 1.05-1.85; P=.02; number needed to treat=7). Additionally, the intervention group showed significantly greater improvements in the interpersonal support dimension of resilience at T1 (least squares mean difference=1.79, 95% CI 0.53-3.06; Cohen d=0.37, 95% CI 0.11-0.63; P=.006; false discovery rate-adjusted P=.04). Exploratory mediation analysis identified a significant indirect effect between the intervention and depressive symptom remission via the interpersonal support dimension of resilience at T1 (indirect effect=0.08, 95% CI 0.02-0.14; P=.009).The brief web-based psychological intervention showed no significant difference from web-based psychoeducation in reducing depressive symptoms across the 3-month follow-up period. Post hoc exploratory analyses detected a potential between-group difference in depressive symptom remission among adolescents with comorbid anxiety symptoms, with interpersonal support showing a significant mediating association. These exploratory findings may provide new insights into identifying the target population suitable for brief web-based psychological interventions and inform the development of tailored interventions in the future.Chinese Clinical Trial Registry ChiCTR2400090235; https://www.chictr.org.cn/showproj.html?proj=243991.©Pei Liu, Xinwei Wang, Xiaoxia Duan, Mingjing Situ, Yujie Tao, Zhaozhi Yang, Shengnan Zhao, Lei Li, Sixun Li, Yuchu Jiang, Manxue Zhang, Di Jing, Xinyi Yu, Yi Huang. Originally published in JMIR mHealth and uHealth (https://mhealth.jmir.org), 07.08.2026.
The apolipoprotein E ε4 (APOE ε4) allele confers the greatest genetic risk for sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD).To identify APOE ε4-associated metabolic factors related to AD risk and to provide preliminary insights into their biological and nutritional context.We leveraged multi-omics analyses across two independent cohorts to characterize biomarkers associated with AD. The effects of metabolite × APOE ε4 interactions were tested on incident AD and the ε4-specific metabolic signatures were pinpointed. Multimodal analyses were used to test the underlying mechanisms, including neuroimaging, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), and PET biomarkers within the A/T/N framework, as well as plasma proteomics combined with bioinformatics enrichment analyses.Across both cohorts, valine emerged as the only metabolite associated with a reduced risk of incident AD specifically among APOE ε4 carriers (P < 0.005). Significant interaction effects between valine and APOE ε4 were detected in both cohorts (P for meta-analyses < 0.005). Higher levels of valine were associated with greater total white matter and posterior cingulate cortex volumes, as well as with lower levels of CSF tau proteins. Higher valine levels also predicted a slower decline in FDG-PET metabolism. No association was found between valine and Aβ. Mediation analyses of plasma proteomic data suggested statistically significant mediation effects involving GFAP, NEFL, and APOE (P < 2 × 10-16).Valine is a metabolite associated with lower AD risk in APOE ε4 carriers, with potential associations with tau pathology, neurodegeneration, and neuroinflammation-related processes. As this was an observational study, causality cannot be inferred.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Low-carbohydrate and low-fat diets (LCDs and LFDs) are promoted for cardiometabolic prevention.This study examined associations of LCDs and LFDs with incident dementia and evaluated modification by genetic susceptibility.We included 5301 dementia-free adults aged ≥55 years from the Health and Retirement Study. Overall LCD and LFD indices were constructed based on macronutrient composition rankings assessed using a food frequency questionnaire in 2013-2014. Plant-based, animal-based, healthy, and unhealthy sub-scores were derived to characterize macronutrient sources and quality. Incident dementia was defined using the Langa-Weir algorithm through 2022. Genetic susceptibility was assessed using APOE genotype and Alzheimer disease polygenic risk score (AD-PRS). Cox models estimated hazard ratios (HRs).During the 9-year follow-up, 506 participants developed dementia. Greater LCD score was associated with lower dementia risk (HR per SD increment 0.90, 95% CI, 0.82, 0.99), whereas an overall LFD was not (1.05, 95% CI, 0.96, 1.15). Plant-based and healthy LCDs showed stronger inverse associations (0.85, 95% CI, 0.78, 0.94 and 0.82, 95% CI, 0.74, 0.90), while higher animal-based (1.10; 95% CI, 1.00, 1.20) and unhealthy LFDs (1.13; 95% CI, 1.04, 1.24) were linked to higher dementia risk. Associations were consistent across APOE genotype and AD-PRS strata. Higher plant-based and healthy LCDs were also associated with better global and domain-specific cognitive performance.Adherence to LCDs, particularly plant-based and higher-quality LCDs, was associated with lower dementia risk, consistently across genetic susceptibility strata. These findings underscored the importance of macronutrient quality, in addition to quantity, in promoting cognitive health.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Tumor immune barriers (TIBs) are spatially organized stromal-immune niches that restrict lymphocyte entry. To explain persistent immune-checkpoint blockade (ICB) resistance in clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC), we mapped TIBs and defined a peritumoral variant built from POSTN+ cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) interlaced with APOE+ tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs). This niche excluded CD8+ T cells from tumor cores, and was enriched in poor-prognosis, ICB-refractory patients. Spatial transcriptomics and single-cell profiling showed TIB regions enriched for extracellular-matrix remodeling, immunosuppressive ligand-receptor circuits, and metabolic reprogramming. Mechanistically, tumor-derived TGF-β1 activated CAFs via SMAD signaling, inducing POSTN and recruiting APOE+TAMs through integrin and chemokine axes. TAMs secreted TGF-β1 and VEGFA, amplifying stromal programs and sustaining exclusion. Blocking POSTN reprogrammed macrophages, reduced matrix-mediated suppression, and restored CD8+ infiltration. In vivo, POSTN inhibition combined with ICB boosted antitumor immunity, reduced tumor burden, and reversed immunosuppressive infiltration, nominating POSTN-directed strategies to potentiate ICB.
The simultaneous performance of tasks relying on the same cognitive processes might lead to gait disturbances. The study aims to explore the distinct involvement of working memory and inhibition during gait within a dual-task using 3D motion analysis and wireless electroencephalography (EEG), addressing limitations of previous research on the removal of gait-related artifacts from EEG signals and the EEG results' generalizability.30 healthy participants performed two cognitive tasks designed to engage inhibition (Go-NoGo) and working memory (N-Back). Data acquisition was performed using a 19-channel wireless EEG device and a 3D optoelectronic system. 51 EEG features, seven spatial-temporal and nine kinematic parameters (seven spatiotemporal metrics and Gait Variable Scores for nine lower-limb joint ranges of motion) were analyzed. Riemannian geometry-based methods were employed to enhance artifact removal from EEG signals and to improve the EEG results' generalizability across subjects.Gait analysis highlighted a predominant involvement of inhibition (p ≤ 0.048 for the most of spatial-temporal parameters and p ≤ 0.005 for GPS and GVS of Hip Flex-Extension among the kinematic parameters), whereas working memory engagement emerged mainly in response to higher cognitive demands (p = 0.037 for mostly spatial-temporal parameters and p ≤ 0.003 for GPS and GVS of Hip Flex-Extension among the kinetic parameters). Relative alpha desynchronization at F4 and at F3 emerged as candidate sensor-level EEG biomarkers of working memory- and inhibitory-related processes (p ≤ 5 ×10-5 ) in the earlobe-reference configuration. A cross-domain mixed-effects analysis further showed that, among the tested EEG-gait associations, relative alpha power at F3 during the Go-NoGo task was significantly associated with stride length in the earlobe-reference configuration, suggesting that this sensor-level EEG feature may represent a candidate marker for monitoring the interaction between inhibitory control and gait adaptation during dual-task walking.This study supports EEG-based monitoring of cognitive processes during walking and aids the design of tailored cognitive rehabilitation for motor-impaired individuals.© 2026. The Author(s).
Neuroimaging with [18F]FDG PET can support the diagnosis of Dementia with Lewy Bodies (DLB), but it remains unclear how genetic factors influence metabolic phenotypes.To determine whether GBA1 and APOE ε4 status are associated with diverging [18F]FDG PET metabolic patterns in DLB.We analyzed [18F]FDG PET scans from 43 patients with DLB stratified by GBA1 and APOE ε4 status, and 35 from healthy subjects. Analyses included the cingulate island sign (CIS), regions of interest, SSM/PCA disease patterns, and a machine learning multi-class model. We evaluated the similarity of the DLB patient scans in our cohort with respect to typical DLB, Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD)-like patterns.APOE ε4 status mainly influenced the CIS, with APOE ε4-negative patients showing greater preservation of the DLB-typical CIS pattern (p = 0.03) compared to APOE ε4 carriers. In contrast, GBA1 status influenced global metabolic phenotype. GBA1 carriers showed a more homogeneous PD/DLB-like metabolic pattern in the machine learning model (p = 0.003) compared to GBA1 non-carriers, whereas the latter group demonstrated greater heterogeneity and higher expression of the AD-related metabolic pattern (p = 0.004). These effects were observed along a metabolic spectrum rather than as distinct clusters.APOE ε4 and GBA1 modulate distinct aspects of the metabolic phenotype in DLB. GBA1 non-carriers and APOE ε4 carriers showed a higher rate of atypical metabolic signatures, which may contribute to biological heterogeneity and increase the risk of diagnostic misclassification.© 2026. The Author(s).
ABBV-916, an anti-amyloid immunotherapy, was evaluated in patients with early Alzheimer's disease (AD).This phase 1b/2, double-blind, placebo-controlled study consisted of two stages: multiple ascending dose (Stage A) and dose expansion (Stage B). In Stage A, patients were randomized to one of six planned cohorts to receive intravenous ABBV-916 (10 mg to 3000 mg) or placebo monthly through week 24. Assessments included amyloid PET, blood-based biomarkers, pharmacokinetics (PK), and safety. Dose selection for Stage B was to be based on results from Stage A.One hundred six patients were randomized to ABBV-916 or placebo. The 3000 mg dose was reduced to 2000 mg and subsequently to 900 mg after safety review. Dose-proportional PK were observed, and amyloid reduction was observed over 24 weeks at doses ≥300 mg. Most adverse events were non-serious amyloid-related imaging abnormalities. The program ended before dose expansion due to business considerations.Amyloid clearance rate and safety of ABBV-916 were generally comparable to approved anti-amyloid AD therapies.NCT05291234.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42564156 is a review article
Neuroinflammation plays an important role in the pathobiology of Progressive Supranuclear Palsy Syndrome (PSP-S). However, it is not adequately known whether peripheral inflammation correlates to neuroinflammation in PSP-S. This study aimed to examine a link between peripheral and brain inflammation in PSP-S by integrating blood and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) inflammatory profile and Positron Emission Tomography (PET)-Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) (PET-MRI).Fifty-six PSP-S patients and equal number of healthy controls were recruited. Plasma Th17 pathway cytokine (IL-6, IL-1β, IL-4, IL-10, IL-17A, IL-17F, IL-21, IL-22, IL-23, IL-25, IL-31, IL-33, IFN-γ, sCD40L, and TNF-α) levels were measured in all the study participants. CSF levels of these cytokines were measured only in PSP-S patients. The expressions of NF-κB (Nfkb1, and Nfkb2), inflammasome (Nlrp3, Casp1, and Il18), Th17 (Il1b, Il6, Il17, Tnfa, Il22, Il23, Rorc, and Stat3) and anti-inflammatory (Tgfb, and Il10) genes were quantified in all the study participants. PET-MRI was carried out in a subset of PSP-S patients (n=12) and eleven disease controls (Parkinson's Disease=7, and Multiple System Atrophy=4).Inflammasome (Casp1 and Il18), NF-κB (Nfkb1) and inflammatory (Il1b and Il6) genes were upregulated in PSP-S patients. Plasma IL-1β, IL-6, IL-17A, and IL-17F levels were significantly elevated in PSP-S patients. IL-1β levels significantly correlated between plasma and CSF. PET-MRI indicated neuroinflammation in several brain regions of PSP-S patients.Both systemic inflammation and neuroinflammation are evident in PSP-S. The positive correlation of higher plasma IL-1β levels with neuroinflammation provides preliminary evidence towards the influence of specific peripheral inflammatory molecule on neuroinflammatory basis of PSP-S. The altered immune elements of the current study further reinforce the pathogenic relevance of immune-inflammatory pathways in PSP-S pathobiology.Copyright © 2026 Dey, Kumar, Kumar, Kavya, Mondal, Holla, Kamble, Mahale, Pal, Yadav and Debnath.
To assess the impact of keratinized mucosa width (KMW) and mucosal thickness (MT) on peri-implant conditions over 25 years in patients with adequate oral hygiene enrolled in regular supportive peri-implant care.Partially edentulous patients rehabilitated with tissue-level implants were clinically and radiographically evaluated by calibrated examiners. Patient-reported brushing discomfort was recorded, and associations with variables of interest were analysed.A total of 149 patients, 235 implants, with a mean follow-up of 25.4 ± 3 years, were included. Peri-implantitis prevalence was 11.1%, 0% and 7.1% in the 0-mm, < 2-mm and ≥ 2-mm KMW groups, respectively (p = 0.98). Sites with 0 mm KMW showed significantly greater crestal bone loss (CBL) than < 2 mm (-0.28 mm) and ≥ 2 mm (-0.40 mm) (p = 0.01). Absence of KMW was associated with an increased risk of peri-implant soft-tissue dehiscence (PSTD) and implant platform visibility (p ≤ 0.01). No significant differences were observed for probing depth (PD), bleeding on probing (BOP), plaque index or peri-implant diseases (p > 0.05). MT was not associated with CBL, PD, BOP, suppuration on probing (SOP) or peri-implant diseases (p > 0.05). Thin MT (< 2 mm) was linked to increased PSTD (p = 0.005), greater implant platform visibility (p = 0.04) and lower plaque index (p = 0.01). Brushing discomfort was reported in 11.4% of sites with 0 mm KMW, compared with 3.4% and 2.4% in the < 2 mm and ≥ 2 mm groups, respectively, with no significant associations across KMW or MT groups (p > 0.05).KMW was associated with long-term peri-implant tissue stability, whereas thin MT was primarily associated with an increased risk of PSTD. Neither KMW nor MT was significantly associated with long-term brushing discomfort.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Clinical Periodontology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42560011 is a review article
We conducted a two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) study including only European men to test for a causal relationship between serum urate (SU), gout, and prostate cancer. Using genome-wide association (GWAS) data, we generated instrumental variables (IVs) associated with gout and urate. These included 20 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with gout but not urate (non-hyperuricemia compartment of gout) and four SNPs from loci containing urate transporter genes for an IV representing urate levels. MR methods included the inverse-variance weighted (IVW) method, MR-Egger regression, and the weighted median method. The non-hyperuricemia compartment of gout IV showed a causal effect of gout on prostate cancer (weighted median: p = 0.01). In contrast, the SU IV showed no evidence of a causal effect of SU on prostate cancer (IVW: p = 0.83; weighted median: p = 0.97). MR-Egger showed no evidence of horizontal pleiotropy (gout: p = 0.33; urate: p = 0.80). Loci contributing most strongly to the non-hyperuricemia causal effect included three genes: IL1R1, IL1RN, and SLC30A5. There was no evidence of a causal relationship between prostate cancer and gout or SU. In conclusion, MR analysis in a European male population found evidence of a causal relationship between the non-hyperuricemia compartment of gout and prostate cancer. Implication of the IL1R1 and IL1RN genes directly implicates the gouty inflammation pathway in prostate cancer.
Case-based learning (CBL) is widely used in rehabilitation and continuing medical education to support the development of clinical reasoning and reflective practice. However, traditional written cases may inadequately capture the multimodal, relational, and contextual complexity of real-world clinical encounters. This paper describes a design-based process for transforming written case studies into video-based cases using a multiliteracies framework to enhance CBL in rehabilitation education, with relevance to continuing medical education.A design-based research approach guided the iterative development of three video case studies: a pediatric case, an adult recovery case, and a developed traumatic brain injury case. The process followed five design thinking phases: discovery, interpretation, ideation, experimentation, and evolution. Multiliteracies principles informed the integration of visual, auditory, linguistic, and relational modes of learning. All videos were co-created to ensure clinical accuracy, authenticity, and feasibility within a resource-constrained setting. An expert review was also conducted with the videos to explore the acceptability, feasibility, and appropriateness of the videos.The design process resulted in three contextually grounded video case studies that supported learners' engagement with clinical reasoning, patient-centered care, and multidisciplinary perspectives. The design-based approach facilitated interdisciplinary collaboration and refinement, showing a scalable and cost-conscious model for educational innovation. Experts reported high feasibility and acceptability alongside strong perceived appropriateness of the videos.Transforming written cases into video-based case studies using a multiliteracies-informed, design-based approach offers a practical and transferable strategy for enhancing case-based learning in rehabilitation and continuing medical education. This approach supports reflective, empathetic, and contextually responsive clinical reasoning and provides a replicable framework for educators seeking to integrate digital media into health professions education.© The Author(s) 2026.
Coagulation and inflammation play crucial roles in the initiation and progression of cancer, and they exhibit a synergistic effect. However, a hematological biomarker and risk model based on coagulation and inflammatory have not yet been established in breast cancer.This study retrospectively analyzed 749 breast cancer patients at our institution. We established a coagulation-inflammation-related genes (CIRGs) risk model using the TCGA-BRCA dataset as the training set and GEO datasets (GSE20685, GSE21653) as the testing sets. Immunohistochemical staining was performed on tumor tissues to validate protein-level expression of key genes. Additionally, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was applied to investigate the expression of the CIRGs and explore intercellular communication differences.All enrolled cases were stratified by median systemic coagulation-inflammation index (SCI) into high- and low-SCI groups. The low-SCI group had longer disease-free survival and overall survival than the high-SCI group, with higher SCI levels noted in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). SCI exhibited a linear correlation with survival outcomes and superior survival predictive performance compared to the platelet-to-lymphocyte ratio. LASSO regression selected 21 prognosis-related CIRGs to construct a prognostic model, which showed robust predictive efficacy across three datasets. Tumor microenvironment analysis indicated that the high-risk group was associated with immune suppression. Drug sensitivity analysis identified 6 potential candidate drugs for low- and high-risk groups. Four hub genes (ABCA1, IL1R1, SERPINE1, and HPN) were identified among CIRGs, showing strong correlations with tumor stage and prognosis. scRNA-seq analysis revealed high expression of the CIRGs in myeloid, endothelial, and epithelial cells, with higher AUCell scores of the CIRGs in TNBC. Significant intercellular communication differences were observed between the two risk groups, especially in fibroblast/endothelial cell-to-T/B cell signaling pathways.This study deeply explores the roles and clinical significance of coagulation and inflammation in breast cancer. The hematological indicator SCI and the CIRGs risk model can serve as reliable biomarkers for breast cancer personalized treatment.Copyright © 2026 Li, Gao, Xia, Wang, Su, Chen, Ba, Jia, Li, Wang and Xiao.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42552063 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42553807 is a review article
Bile leak (BL) remains one of the major adverse events of hepatobiliary surgeries. We evaluated ERCP outcomes for postoperative BL (PBL) cholecystectomy (C-BL), hepatectomy (H-BL), and liver transplantation (LT-BL) and identified predictors of persistent leak after initial ERCP.This study includes consecutive patients who underwent ERCP for PBL at a single high-volume center (2011-2021). Leaks were graded as low-grade BL (LG-BL) or high-grade BL (HG-BL). Initial success was defined as cholangiographic and clinical resolution of BL following a single therapeutic ERCP session at the first follow-up ERCP. Final success was defined as cholangiographic and clinical resolution of the BL at the last follow-up assessment, irrespective of the number of therapeutic ERCP sessions required.417 patients with PBLs were included: 348 (83.5%) C-BL, 43 (10.3%) H-BL, and 26 (6.2%) LT-BL. Initial clinical success was 80.7% overall, with the highest in LT-BL (91.7%), followed by C-BL (83.5%), and then H-BL (50%) (p < 0.001). HG-BLs had lower initial success (54.7% vs. 87.8% for LG-BL; p < 0.001). Final success was 96% overall, but lower in H-BL (84.2%) than C-BL (97.3%) and LT-BL (95.8%) (p < 0.001). Overall, HG-BL (adjusted odds ratio [aOR] 5.79) and H-BL (aOR 3.52) were independent predictors of persistent leak.ERCP is effective and safe for PBL. However, initial clinical success varied by surgical etiology and leak severity. HG-BL and H-BL were associated with lower initial success and more frequently required repeated ERCP interventions for leak resolution. Further studies are needed to validate optimal treatment strategies for higher-risk bile leak subgroups.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Case-based learning (CBL) represents a promising shift toward competency-based veterinary education, but the evidence from Southeast Asian programs is limited.This study evaluated veterinary students' perceptions of structured CBL effectiveness in Thai veterinary education and whether these perceptions varied with academic performance.A convergent parallel mixed-methods design was used at the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Kasetsart University. Quantitative data were collected from 318 students (88.3% response rate) using a structured 22-item questionnaire across four domains (professional knowledge, communication skills, personal benefits, facilitator performance) on 5-point Likert scales. Groups were compared by Grade Point Average (GPA; 2.01-2.99 vs. > 2.99) using the Mann-Whitney U test. Nine focus groups (n = 63) were analyzed thematically.Students perceived all four domains positively. Mean scores were comparable for professional knowledge (4.08 ± 0.61), facilitator performance (4.06 ± 0.72), and personal benefits (4.03 ± 0.65), and lowest for communication skills (3.89 ± 0.75). Students with a GPA of 2.01-2.99 reported greater perceived benefit than higher-achieving peers in professional knowledge (U = 10,109; p = 0.036; r = 0.14) and personal benefits (U = 10,167; p = 0.043; r = 0.14); differences in communication (U = 10,734; p = 0.192; r = 0.09) and facilitator performance (U = 10,783; p = 0.213; r = 0.08) were not significant. Thematic analysis produced two themes: perceived CBL effectiveness and areas for development.Students perceived CBL as offering meaningful educational value, with lower-performing students perceiving particularly strong benefits, and perceived that CBL supported their clinical reasoning, collaborative learning, and communication. Effective implementation was perceived to require systematic faculty development, case-curriculum alignment, and structured group management. These findings support broader CBL integration while highlighting critical implementation considerations for educational equity.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by The Korean Society of Veterinary Science.
Cobalamin C (Cbl-C) disease, the most common inborn error of cobalamin metabolism caused by biallelic pathogenic MMACHC variants, leads to multisystem involvement from methylmalonic acid and homocysteine accumulation. When diagnosed early, it is treatable. Rapid genome sequencing (GS) is becoming increasingly accessible and enables timely diagnosis and prompt treatment. We report a neonate who had severely decreased prenatal and postnatal biventricular function requiring inotropic support. Given the critically ill condition and unclear etiology, rapid GS was obtained and revealed homozygous pathogenic MMACHC variants, confirming a diagnosis of Cbl-C disease. This prompted the early initiation of treatment with high-dose hydroxocobalamin, betaine, levocarnitine, and folic acid. His cardiac function gradually improved, and he was discharged at 28 days of life. Critical care providers should suspect treatable inherited metabolic disorders in patients with unexplained presentations and recognize rapid GS as a powerful tool for early identification and treatment in critically ill patients.Copyright © 2026 Yutaka Furuta et al. Case Reports in Critical Care published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) exhibits heterogeneous responses to immune checkpoint blockade, highlighting the need to define tumor-intrinsic mechanisms driving resistance to PD-L1 inhibition. Here, we identified GTP-binding protein overexpressed in skeletal muscle (GEM) as a tumor cell-intrinsic regulator associated with poor response to anti-PD-L1 therapy in ESCC. GEM expression in tumor cells drove tumor-associated macrophage (TAM)-mediated immunosuppression, leading to reduced CD8⁺ T cell infiltration and impaired cytotoxic function. Mechanistically, GEM induced SERPINE1 expression that was secreted and acted on macrophage LRP1 to drive alternative activation and suppress antitumor immunity. GEM enhanced SERPINE1 expression through a MKK3-RACK1-p38-MEF2A cascade. GEM signaling was reinforced by a metabolically coupled feedback mechanism. Macrophages exposed to GEM-high tumor cells promoted tumor cell glycolysis and lactate production, which drove AARS1-dependent lactylation of GEM and strengthened its interaction with RACK1 to amplify downstream signaling. Disruption of the SERPINE1-LRP1 axis restored CD8⁺ T cell activity and enhanced response to PD-L1 blockade in vivo. Pharmacological perturbation of GEM-dependent signaling remodeled the tumor immune microenvironment and improved responses to PD-L1 blockade. Together, these findings define a GEM-SERPINE1-LRP1 signaling axis that drives macrophage-mediated immune suppression and suggest that targeting this pathway may enhance the efficacy of PD-L1 blockade in ESCC.
Recent genetic findings have broadened the perspectives of cluster headache pathophysiology. Genes identified by genome wide association studies are likely to be involved in the pathophysiological mechanisms underlying the disease. In this study, we performed validation and characterization of eight loci corresponding to nine genes identified in previous genome wide association studies.Genetic loci were validated by means of a case-control study using TaqMan genotyping in 671 individuals, and a meta-analysis using previously genotyped data. Pyrosequencing methylation analysis and reverse transcription quantitative PCR gene expression studies was performed in a subset of individuals with cluster headache and healthy controls.Genetic associations were found with functional variants in two genes; FHL5 and MERTK. The minor allele of the FHL5 variant rs2273621 was associated with an increased risk of cluster headache in the genotyped samples (odds ratio = 1.42, P = 0.03) and in a meta-analysis (odds ratio = 1.29, confidence interval: 1.09-1.52), and the minor allele of the rs2230515 variant in MERTK was associated with lower risk in the meta-analysis (odds ratio = 0.69, confidence interval: 0.52-0.92). Methylation analysis further revealed altered methylation status of MERTK. Moreover, changes in relative gene expression were found for several candidate genes: a decrease in the mRNA expression of DUSP10 (P < 0.001), CAPN2 (P < 0.001), UFL1 (P < 0.001) and LRP1 (P = 0.007) in blood, and a decrease of CAPN2 (P < 0.001) as well as an increase in the mRNA expression of FTCDNL1/FONG (P = 0.004) in fibroblasts in CH vs. controls. Only two genes; PLCE1 and WNT2, could not be validated in the biological tissue studied; WNT2, possibly due to limited power, while PLCE1 was not expressed in the available tissue.These results confirm the validity of seven candidate genes for cluster headache identified through GWAS. Furthermore, five of the candidate genes are abundantly expressed in both immune and blood cells, converge functionally on inflammatory signalling pathways and suggest a potential role for inflammasomes in cluster headache.© 2026. The Author(s).
Paqr7 and paqr8 are genes encoding membrane progestin receptor αand β (mPRα and mPRβ, respectively), which are currently classified as members of the progestin and adipoQ receptor (PAQR) family. For mPRα, the first identified mPR gene, there are two paralogs in zebrafish, paqr7a and paqr7b. In order to elucidate the physiological functions of the mPR subtypes, we created gene knockout (KO) fish by editing seven paqr genes in zebrafish and analyzing their phenotypes. The null-mutant strains of paqr7a, paqr7b, and paqr8 presented no significant abnormalities in reproductive functions. Thus, we generated a triple-gene knockout (TKO) strain of these highly related genes. The TKO strain had reduced fecundity and a high percentage of abnormal embryos. The embryos exhibited various types of abnormal morphology. In histological sections, a reduction in the number of nucleoli in germinal vesicles was observed. Additionally, the distribution of the nucleolus was abnormal. The amount of 18S and 28S ribosomal RNAs in the oocytes significantly increased. These analyses indicate that paqr7a, paqr7b, and paqr8 are responsible for the production of the nucleolus, which is necessary for supplying the proper number of ribosomal RNAs into the cytoplasm of oocytes. Abnormal embryo development resulted from low-quality eggs in TKO zebrafish, suggesting that paqr7a, paqr7b, and paqr8 mutations affect oogenesis. These results indicate that Paqr7a, Paqr7b, and Paqr8 are required for the preparation of the nucleolus during oogenesis. Insufficient formation of the nucleolus resulted in a higher quantity of ribosomal RNA in the cytoplasm, causing abnormal embryo development.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42552594 is a review article
CD148 is the primary receptor-type protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) regulating platelet activation, and its inhibition has been proposed as a novel anti-thrombotic strategy with potentially lower bleeding risk than current therapies. However, selective and potent inhibitors of CD148 are currently lacking. AKB-9778 (razuprotafib), a potent inhibitor of the closely related vascular endothelial-PTP (VE-PTP), has also been reported to inhibit CD148. This study investigated the effect of AKB-9778 on in vitro whole-blood thrombogenicity, examined the molecular basis of its interaction with the CD148 catalytic domain using molecular docking, and assessed inhibitor selectivity with an in vitro phosphatase assay. In a total-thrombus formation analysis system (T-TAS), AKB-9778 partially inhibited thrombus formation, reducing AUC10 by 28%, without significantly affecting occlusion start time or occlusion time. The inhibitor did not alter collagen-stimulated CD62P platelet surface expression or PAC-1 binding to the activated integrin αIIbβ3. Molecular docking using CB-Dock predicted a binding configuration in which the phenylsulfamic acid group of AKB-9778 is orientated towards the catalytic cysteine, with additional conformations reflecting ligand flexibility. Site-directed mutagenesis of Tyr1071, Gln1283, His1206, and Asn1073 to alanine reduced the inhibitory effect in phosphatase assays, supporting interaction with these residues. Notably, the IC50 of AKB-9778 against CD148 was approximately 300-fold higher than previously reported values, consistent with the wide variability across studies. Despite this reduced potency, these findings support the concept of CD148 inhibition as a potential anti-thrombotic strategy and suggest that AKB-9778 may serve as a useful prototype for developing more selective and efficacious CD148 inhibitors.© 2026 The Author(s). Pharmacology Research & Perspectives published by British Pharmacological Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
This study aimed to explore shared genetic architectures underlying Alzheimer's disease (AD) and its known risk factors.Significant common variants between AD and its risk factors were identified using GWAS data. The 1000 Genomes Project genotyping data enabled the detection of linkage disequilibrium (LD) blocks and haplotype structures. Functional impact assessments, protein-protein interaction analyses, pathway mapping and enrichment studies were performed.Sixteen significant variants across nine genes were associated with AD and at least one risk factor (p ≤ 5 × 10-8). Genes APOE, ABCA1 and TOMM40 showed strong associations with AD (adjusted p = 9.75 × 10-9). High-confidence interactions were identified among these genes, as well as APP and LRP1, within the AD pathway. Variant rs429358 (p ≤ 3 × 10-15) on the APOE gene was linked to AD, metabolic syndrome (MetS), diabetes, waist-to-hip ratio (WHR) and ageing. Variant rs2075650 (p ≤ 6 × 10-9) on TOMM40 correlated AD risk with MetS, WHR and body mass index (BMI). Variants rs483082 (p ≤ 2 × 10-32) and rs71352238 (p ≤ 1 × 10-11) on APOC1 and TOMM40 were associated with AD and MetS. Variants rs4420638 (p ≤ 2 × 10-34) and rs1800978 (p ≤ 2 × 10-9) on APOC1 and ABCA genes were associated with AD and WHR. The rs13237518 (p ≤ 5 × 10-11) was associated with AD risk in diabetic patients. Furthermore, the rs4277405 (p ≤ 9 × 10-20) associated AD with cardiovascular disease (CVD). Haplotypic structures were also identified for all these variants (D' and r2 ≥ 0.8).This study identifies genetic variants and LD blocks on APOE, ABCA1, TOMM40 and APOC1 genes shared between AD and its risk factors, revealing common genetic links and potential shared susceptibility pathways.© 2026 Japanese Psychogeriatric Society.
Tumorigenicity is a key safety concern for CRISPR/Cas9-based gene therapies, yet its assessment remains challenging due to the lack of relevant and sensitive in vivo models. This HESI Global multi-site study evaluated the Soft Agar Colony Formation (SACF) assay and the Growth in Low Attachment (GILA) assay for in vitro transformation testing of CRISPR/Cas9-edited cells as part of tumorigenicity risk assessment. Across four laboratories, MCF10A cells were spiked with varying concentrations of cells carrying a CRISPR/Cas9-mediated knockout of the known tumor suppressor PTPN12 to determine the assays' limit of detection (LOD), robustness and reproducibility. Both assays demonstrated a consistent LOD of 0.8% at most sites, with SACF showing a broader dynamic range and slightly stronger correlation across laboratories. GILA exhibited weaker correlation due to plateauing at high spike-in concentrations (>12.5%), and excluding these conditions improved inter-laboratory correlations. Additionally, the study identified key determinants of assay success, including the selection of appropriate cell lines and lots, and ensuring sufficient recovery time post-thaw. Together, these data establish multi-site reproducibility of SACF and GILA in the MCF10A-PTPN12 model evaluated here and support their use as animal-free, development-stage characterization tools contributing to tumorigenicity evidence generation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42525165 is a review article
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) features a fibrotic stroma dominated by cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), yet the functional heterogeneity of CAFs and their crosstalk with malignant cells in metastasis and immune evasion remain unclear.We performed an integrated analysis of single‑cell RNA‑seq data and spatial transcriptomics of PDAC. Pseudotime trajectory reconstruction, regulon activity inference, and ligand-receptor interaction mapping were applied to dissect fibroblast heterogeneity and stromal-epithelial crosstalk. Bulk transcriptomic data from multiple independent cohorts were used to evaluate prognostic and immunotherapeutic implications.We identified nine CAF subsets, including a THBS2⁺ ECM‑remodeling population enriched in liver metastases. Spatial transcriptomics localized these THBS2⁺ CAFs to dense stromal regions surrounding malignant ducts, where they established an immune‑excluded microenvironment correlated with T‑cell exclusion and immunotherapy resistance. Pseudotime analysis revealed PRRX2 as a master regulator driving this CAF subset. Epithelial sub-clustering uncovered KRT17⁺ malignant cells (a transcriptionally distinct epithelial subpopulation associated with EMT and metastasis) that co-enriched with THBS2⁺ CAFs in metastatic sites. Ligand-receptor analysis showed that THBS2⁺ CAFs are computationally predicted to signal to KRT17⁺ cells via the THBS2-SDC4 axis, while malignant cells reciprocally activate CAFs through MDK-LRP1 and SPP1-integrin pathways. Co‑infiltration of both populations strongly predicted poor prognosis and resistance to anti‑PD‑L1 therapy across multiple cohorts.The THBS2⁺ CAF-KRT17⁺ malignant cell axis drives metastatic progression and immune exclusion in PDAC via THBS2-SDC4 signaling, representing a promising prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Background/Objectives: Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) has become increasingly common, a trend driven by obesity, excess nutritional intake, and dysfunctional adipose tissue. While continuous dietary stress triggers adipose-tissue-derived lipotoxicity and disrupts hepatic metabolic homeostasis and provokes inflammation, the transcriptional scaffolds that mitigate this lipotoxicity remain incompletely understood. We investigated the role of zinc finger protein 90 (ZFP90) in defending against diet-induced metabolic stress and MASLD pathogenesis. Methods: Wild-type and ZFP90-knockout mice were subjected to a high-fat diet (HFD) to model nutrient-overload-induced MASLD. Hepatic phenotypes were characterized using metabolic profiling and RNA sequencing. Mechanistic dynamics were evaluated through protein interaction assays, and clinical relevance was validated using human MASLD liver biopsies. Results: ZFP90 deficiency significantly accelerated HFD-induced steatosis, systemic insulin resistance, and inflammatory infiltration. Crucially, ZFP90 depletion drove severe white adipose tissue (WAT) dysfunction, characterized by impaired lipogenic capacity, exacerbated lipolysis, and diminished local insulin signaling. This was accompanied by a pro-inflammatory secretory shift in WAT, evident from decreased Adipoq and increased Cd68/Ccl3 expression. In the liver, transcriptomic analysis revealed a profound induction of pathways related to fatty acid uptake and cytokine signaling. Mechanistically, ZFP90 forms a repressive complex with TRIM28, acting as a crucial molecular brake on NF-kB signaling. Loss of ZFP90 unleashes p65-mediated hyper-inflammation. Clinically, hepatic ZFP90 expression is significantly upregulated in patients with MASLD. Conclusions: ZFP90 is a novel regulator of immunometabolic homeostasis under dietary stress. By forming of complex with Trim28 to inhibit the nuclear translocation of NF-κB, ZFP90 suppresses pro-inflammatory responses and protects the liver from obesity-associated systemic lipotoxicity. These findings provide critical insights into the adipo-hepatic axis and highlight ZFP90 as a promising therapeutic target to mitigate the progression to metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH).
Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) survivors frequently experience a wide range of symptoms known as post-acute sequelae of SARS-CoV-2 (PASC) or long COVID. Importantly, complications arising from microvascular dysfunction, blood-brain barrier (BBB) disruption, and chronic neuroinflammation have been implicated in driving PASC within the central nervous system (CNS), known as neuro-PASC. Notably, people with HIV (PWH), who suffer from chronic neuroinflammation, BBB impairment, and glial cell dysfunction, collectively known as neuro-HIV, are generally at higher risk of neuro-PASC. The overlap between neuro-PASC and neuro-HIV raises concerns that HIV and SARS-CoV-2 co-infection may exacerbate neurological dysfunctions among PWH. In this study, using an in-vitro cell culture model, we examine the effects of HIV and SARS-CoV-2 mono- and co-infection in microglia, astrocytes, and pericytes. Our results demonstrated that majority of brain cell types support SARS-CoV-2 replication, in the presence and absence of HIV infection. Furthermore, in both mono- and co-infected cells, there were varying degree of up- and downregulation of SARS-CoV-2 host cell entry factors, such as ACE2, TMPRSS2, NRP1, and TRIM28, and inflammatory cytokines including IL-6, TNF-α, and IL-1β. Moreover, conditioned media collected from HIV, SARS-CoV-2, and HIV/SARS-CoV-2 co-infected astrocytes and pericytes were shown to be neurotoxic. Additionally, proteomic analysis has revealed a unique set of proteins significantly up/down regulated in HIV/SARS-CoV-2 co-infected astrocytes and pericytes. The gene set enrichment analysis of these proteins indicates dysregulation of lipid, energy, and immune metabolism pathways linked to neurodegenerative disorders like Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, Huntington's disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. These in-vitro findings indicate that astrocytes and pericytes from HIV/SARS-CoV-2 co-infection exhibit altered protein expression profiles, implicating dysregulated signaling pathways associated with neurodegenerative dysfunction.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Medical Virology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Membrane-bound neuropilin-1 (Nrp-1) has been implicated as a regulator of insulin resistance-related lipid metabolism, but little is known about its circulating form, soluble Nrp-1 (sNrp-1), in a metabolic context. Here we investigated the association between plasma levels of sNrp-1 and metabolic variables in 501 participants from the Prospective investigation of Obesity, Energy and Metabolism (POEM) study. Metabolic phenotyping included blood sampling, dual energy X-ray absorptiometry scan, magnetic resonance imaging for fat distribution, and a glucose tolerance test. Associations were examined using linear regression models and Spearman's rank correlation. Plasma sNrp-1 levels were inversely associated with levels of total fatty acids, triglycerides and lactate, and positively associated with markers of insulin sensitivity. In human Simpson-Golabi-Behmel Syndrome (SGBS) adipocytes, we showed that treatment with recombinant Nrp-1 reduced phosphorylation of hormone-sensitive lipase in the basal state and attenuated isoproterenol-stimulated glycerol release, a measure of total lipolytic activity. Based on these findings, we thus postulate that sNrp-1-mediated suppression of lipolysis could explain our observed association between plasma sNrp-1 and a favorable lipid profile in humans. Further studies are warranted to establish causality and to clarify the role of sNrp-1 in promoting insulin sensitivity in human adipose tissue.© 2026. The Author(s).
Ischemic heart disease remains a leading cause of mortality worldwide. Although mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) transplantation offers a promising strategy for myocardial infarction, its therapeutic efficacy is limited by poor cell survival and insufficient regenerative capacity. Traditional Chinese medicine has been widely used to promote blood circulation and treat ischemic diseases. Chuanxiong-Chishao (Ligusticum chuanxiong and Paeoniae Radix Rubra) is a commonly used herb pair for this purpose. This study aimed to investigate whether Chuanxiong-Chishao combined with MSCs could synergistically enhance angiogenesis after myocardial infarction. A rat model of myocardial infarction (MI) was established by permanent ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery, and the animals were randomly assigned to the sham, model, MSCs, and Chuanxiong-Chishao combined with MSCs (CC-MSCs) groups. MSCs were injected intramyocardially immediately after ligation, and herbal treatment was administered for 28 days. Cardiac function was evaluated by echocardiography, myocardial fibrosis by Masson staining, and angiogenesis by CD31 immunofluorescence. Proteomic profiling was performed using label-free quantitative analysis, and key proteins were validated by Western blot. Compared with MSCs alone, CC-MSCs significantly improved left ventricular ejection fraction, fractional shortening, and cardiac output, reduced infarct size, and enhanced neovascularization in MI rats. Proteomic analysis identified 154 differentially expressed proteins between the model and CC-MSCs groups, and Gene Ontology enrichment analysis indicated significant activation of angiogenesis-related processes. Among these proteins, CDC42, NRP1, and AMOT were markedly altered, which was further confirmed by Western blot analysis. These findings suggest that Chuanxiong-Chishao enhances MSC-mediated angiogenesis and cardiac repair after MI, potentially through modulation of angiogenesis-related protein networks.Copyright© 2025 Polish Physiological Society.
Urinary proteomic profiling (UPP) provides insights in disease mechanisms and origin of symptoms. Using UPP, this study aimed at deepening insight in the biology of exercise tolerance.In the HOMAGE trial, 268 patients at risk of heart failure underwent the incremental shuttle walk test (SWT) and UPP by capillary electrophoresis coupled with mass spectrometry at baseline (discovery) and the 9-month final visit (replication). Sequencing of 1498 urinary peptides identified 170 non-collagen and 40 collagen-derived proteins. Ten exercise-related variables, including heart rate and blood pressure responses, symptoms and walking distance were summarised into a single factor, higher values indicating exercise intolerance. In exploratory analyses, exercise intolerance was related to the UPP, first in linear and logistic regression models, considering one peptide at a time, and next by elastic net regression considering the peptides retained in the previous step. Replicated proteins were subjected to pathway analysis.Twenty-nine non-collagen and 31 collagen-derived peptides were associated with reduced exercise capacity with correction for multiple testing. In elastic net regression, exercise intolerance was in >50% of 1000 bootstrap runs associated with the non-collagen proteins FXYD2, GAPDH, HBB, KCNB1, MB, MYOCD, SECTM1, SNX9, TACC3, TMSB4X, and TTN and with collagens COL5A1, COL6A1, COL11A2, and COL28A1. Enriched pathways involved oxygen homoeostasis, oxidative stress regulation, metabolic and developmental processes, and muscle biology.In HOMAGE patients, UPP identified parent proteins regulating exercise endurance, which are involved in oxygenation, vascular and muscle structure and function, maintenance of the circulating volume, and protection against oxidative stress.European Union.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Central venous catheters are a major risk factor for Candida albicans vascular infections, which remain challenging to manage. Although antifungal therapy is standard, the host pathways shaping vascular responses-particularly the Notch signaling pathway (NSP)-are not well characterized in this context. In addition, the potential influence of the prostaglandin pathway on vascular NSP-related responses during infection remains unclear. In this study, a rat model of central venous catheter-associated C. albicans infection was used to evaluate microbiological outcomes and vascular NSP-related protein expression. Immunohistochemical analyses were performed to assess Candida immunostaining alongside the expression of Notch receptors (Notch1-3) and ligands (DLL1/4, Jagged1/2) in vascular tissues. Experimental groups included sham, infected control, antifungal-treated (fluconazole, caspofungin, liposomal amphotericin B), and prostaglandin pathway-intervention groups (sulprostone and sulprostone followed by indomethacin). C. albicans infection was associated with higher vascular NSP-related protein expression compared with sham animals. Antifungal-treated groups showed lower NSP-related protein expression, while fungicidal agents were associated with absence of fungal growth in catheter and kidney cultures. In the sulprostone-indomethacin-treated group, NSP-related protein expression levels were lower than those in the sulprostone-treated group despite persistent fungal burden. In conclusion, central venous catheter-associated C. albicans infection was associated with altered vascular NSP-related protein expression. Differences in NSP-related protein expression patterns were observed across antifungal- and prostaglandin pathway-intervention groups. These findings are descriptive and do not allow causal inference but may provide a basis for future studies exploring the role of NSP in vascular responses to C. albicans infection.
Protein tyrosine phosphatase non-receptor type 14 (PTPN14) exhibits dual roles in cancer, acting as either a tumor suppressor or oncogene depending on context, while its role in colon adenocarcinoma (COAD) and liver hepatocellular carcinoma (LIHC) remains unclear. Since COAD and LIHC showed high incidence and mortality rates, we investigated PTPN14's prognostic and mechanistic significance in COAD and LIHC. Pan-cancer analysis were performed based on TCGA and GEO database. Clinical validation used IHC staining of 50 COAD and 40 LIHC specimens. In vitro functional assays and in vivo xenograft models assessed PTPN14's impact on proliferation, migration, invasion and tumorigenicity. Mechanistic studies included Co-IP, immunofluorescence, ubiquitination assay and Western blot to evaluate PTPN14-Notch1 interaction and pathway regulation. As a result, pan-cancer analysis identified PTPN14 as prognostic biomarker in COAD and LIHC. Clinical validation confirmed PTPN14 as a prognostic biomarker in COAD and LIHC and associated with survival and TNM stage progression. In vitro experiments revealed knockdown of PTPN14 suppressed the proliferation, migration and invasion of COAD and LIHC cell lines. PTPN14 stabilized Notch1 by competitively binding to prevent FBXW7-mediated ubiquitination, and increasing the expression of Notch1 intracellular domain (Notch1 ICD) and downstream targets (DLL1 and HES1). At last, in vivo experiments revealed knockdown of PTPN14 inhibited xenograft tumor formation in COAD and LIHC cell lines. In conclusion, PTPN14 drives COAD and LIHC progression via Notch signaling stabilization, serving as a prognostic biomarker and potential therapeutic target for COAD and LIHC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The roles of inflammatory and fibrogenic biomarkers in chronic hepatitis B (CHB) infection and hepatitis B virüs (HBV)-related cirrhosis remain incompletely understood. The current study investigated the diagnostic and discriminative ability of amphiregulin (AREG), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and neuropilin-1 (Nrp-1) as biomarkers of HBV-related cirrhosis.This cross-sectional analytical study included 70 patients with CHB (43 without cirrhosis and 27 with HBVrelated cirrhosis) and 60 healthy controls. Clinical and laboratory data were obtained from hospital records. Serum IL-6, Nrp-1, and AREG levels collected during outpatient visits were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Group differences were analyzed using the Kruskal-Wallis test, discriminative performance was evaluated using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis, and factors independently associated with cirrhosis were identified using logistic regression.IL-6 and Nrp-1 levels were higher in patients with noncirrhotic and HBV-related cirrhotic CHB than in healthy controls (P < .001), with no significant difference between the patient subgroups. AREG levels were lower in the overall CHB cohort than in controls (P < .001) but higher in patients with cirrhosis than in those without cirrhosis (P = .001). ROC analysis showed that AREG had moderate discriminative ability for HBV-related cirrhosis (area under the curve (AUC) = 0.749). The optimal Youden-derived cutoff value was 2.29 ng/mL, with a sensitivity of 74% and a specificity of 65%. In logistic regression, AREG was independently associated with HBV-related cirrhosis (P = .012). Addition of ln-transformed AREG to age- and sex-adjusted aspartate aminotransferase-to-platelet ratio index (APRI)- and Fibrosis-4 index (FIB-4)-based models increased the AUC from 0.923 to 0.970 and from 0.938 to 0.980, respectively.AREG may serve as a complementary biomarker with moderate discriminative value for HBV-related cirrhosis but is unlikely to be useful as a standalone diagnostic or prognostic marker. Although IL-6 and Nrp-1 reflected underlying inflammatory activity, their ability to distinguish cirrhosis was limited.https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.
Patrolling monocytes (pMos) scavenge debris from vessel walls and mediate antibody-dependent cellular phagocytosis, making them attractive cell therapy candidates for cancer, atherosclerosis, and Alzheimer's disease. However, methods to generate pMos for cell therapy are not available. To address this, we developed a 2-step procedure to produce pMos in vitro from murine bone marrow (BM). First, myeloid progenitors were expanded and enriched from BM using cytokines for 4 d. Second, expanded progenitors were differentiated into pMos on delta-like ligand 1 (DLL1)-expressing monolayers for 8 d. We confirmed that in vitro grown pMos expressed the transcription factor Nr4a1 (Nur77) and other canonical pMos surface proteins, and depended on Notch signaling for their development. RNA-sequencing revealed that in vitro pMos expressed hallmark pMos genes, including Cx3cr1, Itgax (CD11c), CD43, Fcγr4, and Cd274 (PD-L1), and their gene signatures clustered closely with in vivo blood and BM pMos. Transcriptomic and phenotypic analyses further demonstrated that in vitro pMos were distinct from classical BM macrophages. Phagocytosis assays demonstrated the function of in vitro pMos in cancer cell uptake. Adoptive transfer studies demonstrated that in vitro pMos persisted within the circulation and lung vasculature during the early post-transfer period compared with BM-derived macrophages, consistent with the vascular-patrolling properties of pMos. Adoptive transfer of pMos reduced lung tumor burden in a metastatic model, supporting an anti-tumoral role for pMos and their ability to mediate immune surveillance in vivo. These findings demonstrate that the DLL1 culture system allows for propagation of functional pMos, enabling studies of pMos biology and their therapeutic potential.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Society for Leukocyte Biology.
Photodynamic therapy (PDT) holds promise for combination antitumor therapies by triggering immunogenic cell death (ICD). ICD is defined as the process by which tumor cells, upon death induced by external stimuli, convert from a non‑immunogenic to an immunogenic state, thereby mediating an anti‑tumor immune response in the host. But the poor aqueous solubility and inadequate tumor targeting of photosensitizers hinder their clinical translation. This study focuses on a novel BODIPY photosensitizer (M5) and aims to improve its antitumor efficacy via efficient tumor-targeted delivery and controllable release. Herein, we successfully synthesized iRGD-functionalized DSPE-PEG2000-iRGD and pH-sensitive HA-g-DEAP polymers, and further fabricated multifunctional M5/NMN/DEAP/iRGD-Lip liposomes via the thin-film dispersion method, which possess pH responsiveness and enhanced tumor-targeting ability. β-Nicotinamide Mononucleotide (NMN), a NAD + precursor, exerts a potent stimulatory effect on T-cell activation; 3-(Diethylamino)propylamine (DEAP) and hyaluronic acid (HA) can form pH-responsive HA-g-DEAP; the iRGD peptide (CRGDK/RGPDC), upon hydrolysis at its C‑terminus, exposes a motif that binds to neuropilin‑1 (NRP1), thereby conferring tumor‑targeting and tissue‑penetrating properties, endowing the liposomes with tumor-targeting and tissue-penetrating capabilities. M5 exhibits a high molar absorption coefficient of 5.33 × 104 M⁻¹ cm⁻¹ and a singlet oxygen quantum yield of 0.3854. In vitro cellular assays showed IC50 values of 104.1 nM and 72.68 nM in breast cancer MDA-MB-231 and 4T1 cells, respectively. Treatment with M5/NMN/DEAP/iRGD-Lip induced apoptosis rates of 56.84% and 55.6% in MDA-MB-231 and 4T1 cells, respectively. T-cell co-culture assays showed that M5/NMN/DEAP/iRGD-Lip increased the proportions of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells while reducing the proportion of regulatory T cells (Tregs) among CD4+ T cells. Collectively, the multifunctional M5/NMN/DEAP/iRGD-Lip liposomes integrate targeted delivery, pH-controlled release, and synergistic PDT-immunotherapy, effectively addressing key limitations of conventional photosensitizers. This work provides a promising nanoplatform for the development of novel combination therapies against breast cancer, laying a foundation for future preclinical and clinical translations.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and its receptor VEGFR are master regulators of vasculogenesis and angiogenesis. VEGF activates VEGFR by inducing its dimerization and trans-autophosphorylation. The coreceptor neuropilin (Nrp1 and Nrp2) and heparan sulfate proteoglycan (HSPG) modulate VEGF-VEGFR signaling, but the underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood. Here we report a cryo-EM structure of the dimeric mouse VEGF164-VEGFR2-Nrp1 ectodomain complex with a 2:2:2 stoichiometry, revealing direct Nrp1-VEGFR2 interactions that stabilize the VEGFR2 dimer. We also determined two cryo-EM structures of the VEGF164-VEGFR2-Nrp1 complex in the presence of short- or long-chain heparin, which bridges all three proteins and promotes the formation of two distinct tetrameric complexes. Long-chain heparin induces a cis tetrameric complex consistent with receptor clustering on the same cell surface, whereas short-chain heparin promotes a trans tetrameric assembly which might be formed by two dimeric complexes from opposing cells. Our structure-based mutational analyses support the model that both the Nrp1-VEGFR2 interface and the heparin-mediated clustering enhance VEGFR2 signaling.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42545806 is a review article
Adult T cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATL) is an aggressive T cell malignancy with poor prognosis. Recurrent genetic alterations in T cell receptor (TCR) signaling components, including PLCG1, PRKCB, and CARD11, highlight the biological relevance of this pathway in ATL. We focused on mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma translocation protein 1 (MALT1), a key regulator of TCR signaling that functions through complex formation with CARD11 and BCL10, and developed a potent and selective MALT1 protease inhibitor, CRD-1441551. CRD-1441551 exhibited variable antitumor effects across ATL models both in vitro and in vivo. Among three ATL cell lines and five patient-derived xenograft models, two demonstrated marked sensitivity, three showed modest responses, and three were unresponsive. Notably, therapeutic responses were more frequently observed in models with constitutive MALT1 activation accompanied by enhanced MALT1-NF-κB signaling. These findings suggest that CRD-1441551 preferentially targets a subset of ATL, in which tumor growth is dependent on the MALT1-driven NF-κB pathway.© 2026 The Authors.
Adeno-associated virus (AAV) gene therapy is frequently hindered by dose-limiting toxicities and preexisting neutralizing antibodies (nAbs). Here, we evaluate enhancer polymer (ePL), a cargo-less poly(L-lactic-co-glycolic acid) nanoparticle, the systemic administration of which demonstrated biocompatibility in nonhuman primates (NHPs) and generated a protransduction serum secretome that significantly enhanced AAV uptake in human iPSC-derived cardiomyocytes. Proteomic analysis of human peripheral blood mononuclear cell-derived secretomes identified a transient upregulation of AAV-entry factors, including ITGB3, alongside a downregulation of inflammatory cytokine pathways. Mechanistically, ePL-stimulated macrophages release a paracrine secretome that triggers the rapid, transient degradation of hepatic insulin receptor substrate 2 and subsequent AKT inhibition in liver and isolated primary mouse hepatocytes. Additionally, ePL attenuated the levels of NHP-derived nAbs in vitro and in a mouse-NHP xenotransfusion model without depleting total systemic immunoglobulins. Finally, ePL reduced Immunoglobulin G (IgG) secretory capacity of splenic B cells, suggesting a mechanistic link by which levels of nAbs are likely attenuated. Together, these findings highlight ePL as a promising supporting agent to improve AAV gene transfer, warranting its further optimization for clinical translation.
Posterior capsular opacification (PCO) is a common complication of cataract surgery and is strongly associated with the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) of lens epithelial cells (LECs). Integrin β3 (ITGB3) has been implicated in various pathological processes; however, its role in PCO remains insufficiently understood.To investigate the regulatory role of ITGB3 in PCO progression and determine whether ITGB3 modulates transforming growth factor-β2 (TGF-β2)-induced migration and EMT in human lens epithelial cells.Human lens epithelial HLE-B3 cells were treated with transforming growth factor-β2 (TGF-β2; 10 ng/mL) to establish an in vitro model of PCO. ITGB3 expression at the mRNA and protein levels was assessed using reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and western blotting. Cell proliferation was evaluated using the 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU) assay, while cell migration was assessed using transwell and wound-healing assays.TGF-β2 stimulation significantly increased ITGB3 expression in HLE-B3 cells. Silencing of ITGB3 significantly reduced the proliferation of TGF-β2-treated cells and inhibited their migratory capacity, as demonstrated by both transwell and wound-healing assays. Exposure to TGF-β2 promoted EMT, whereas ITGB3 knockdown reversed this effect. Furthermore, activation of the TGF-β/Smad2/3 signaling pathway induced by TGF-β2 was attenuated following ITGB3 silencing.Knockdown of ITGB3 alleviates TGF-β2-induced migration and EMT in HLE-B3 cells by suppressing the TGF-β/Smad2/3 signaling pathway, supporting ITGB3 as a potential therapeutic target for the prevention and treatment of PCO.
Uric acid metabolism is associated with the development of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), cardiometabolic, and cardiovascular diseases. Additionally, T2DM patients often exhibit mild cognitive impairment (MCI). However, the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. This study aims to identify and validate biomarkers associated with uric acid metabolism in T2DM and MCI, with the goal of discovering potential diagnostic and therapeutic targets to improve the quality of life for T2DM patients. Transcriptomic data for T2DM, MCI and uric acid metabolism-related genes were sourced from public databases. Biomarkers were screened using machine learning and validated for expression. Subsequent analyses included functional enrichment, immune infiltration, subcellular localization, and drug prediction. Three biomarkers-HP, ITGB3, and SELP-were identified. All showed significantly elevated expression in the T2DM group (p < 0.05). HP and ITGB3 were primarily enriched in ribosome-related pathways, primary immunodeficiency, and adherens junction processes. Immune infiltration analysis revealed that immature B cells and plasmacytoid dendritic cells were significantly enriched in T2DM. HP showed the strongest positive correlation with plasmacytoid dendritic cells (cor = 0.65, FDR <0.05), while ITGB3 exhibited the strongest positive correlation with immature B cells (cor = 0.76, FDR <0.05). Several potential therapeutic drugs were predicted, including calcifediol (score = -99.93) and meclofenamic acid (score = -99.89). This study identified three candidate biomarkers co-dysregulated across T2DM and MCI transcriptomes and associated with uric acid metabolism. Given the exploratory sample sizes, these findings are considered hypothesis-generating and require validation in larger independent cohorts.Copyright © 2026 Liu, Kang and Lei.
Coronary heart disease (CHD) is a global cardiovascular disease with high morbidity and mortality, and its complex pathological mechanism poses great challenges to clinical prevention and treatment. Paeoniflorin (PA), a monoterpene glycoside active ingredient from Ranunculaceae plants, has shown potential in cardiovascular protection, but its specific anti-CHD molecular targets and systematic regulatory networks remain unclear. In this study, a mouse model of CHD was established, and a multi-omics strategy combining label-free quantitative proteomics and metabolomics was adopted to explore the mechanism of PA in treating CHD. The results showed that PA significantly improved cardiac function, alleviated myocardial pathological injury and fibrosis, and regulated lipid metabolism in CHD model mice, with the high-dose group showing the optimal effect. Proteomic analysis identified 51 key differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) reversed by PA, which were mainly enriched in complement and coagulation cascades, and neutrophil extracellular trap formation pathways, with the C3-Cfd-C3aR signaling axis as the core hub. Further verification confirmed that PA could downregulate the expression of C3, Cfd, C3aR, and their downstream molecule BTK, thereby inhibiting myocardial inflammatory response and cardiomyocyte apoptosis. In addition, PA downregulated the expression of platelet activation markers ITGA2B/ITGB3. Metabolomic analysis revealed that PA reversed 57 abnormal metabolites in CHD mice, which were enriched in GABAergic synapse, retrograde endocannabinoid signaling and other pathways. Molecular docking confirmed that PA could stably bind to C3, Cfd, C3aR, BTK, and ITGA2B/ITGB3 with strong binding activity. In conclusion, PA exerts anti-CHD effects through a multi-target and multi-pathway synergism, mainly by targeting the C3-Cfd-C3aR axis to inhibit inflammation, apoptosis and platelet activation, and regulating metabolic disorders. This study provides experimental evidence and theoretical support for the clinical application of PA as a multi-target therapeutic drug for CHD.
Natural killer (NK) cells are vital for anti-tumor immunity, yet their effector functions are frequently constrained within the tumor microenvironment. Integrin β3 (ITGB3) has been implicated in breast cancer progression and stemness, but whether ITGB3 expression in malignant cells influences NK cell states and contributes to immune evasion remains unclear.Single-cell RNA sequencing data were utilized to profile the transcriptomic and metabolic divergence of NK cells between ITGB3⁺ and ITGB3⁻ tumor microenvironments. Cell-cell communication and pseudotime trajectory analyses were performed to identify key signaling axes. The SCIPAC framework was employed to map single-cell subsets to the bulk TCGA-BRCA cohort for clinical correlation. The mechanistic findings were validated through in vitro co-culture assays and NKG2A blocking experiments using MDA-MB-231 and BT-474 cell lines.NK cells associated with ITGB3+ tumor microenvironments displayed enhanced cytotoxic and inflammatory transcriptional programs, together with metabolic remodeling and stronger clinical associations with advanced TNM stages. Cell-cell communication analysis revealed intensified predicted interactions between ITGB3+ malignant cells and NK cells, with enrichment of MHC-I-related signaling and HLA-E-KLRC1/KLRC2 interactions. KLRC1 encodes the inhibitory receptor NKG2A, whereas KLRC2 encodes the activating receptor NKG2C. Therefore, these inferred interactions do not by themselves define the net functional direction of HLA-E signaling. Although KLRC2 was transcriptionally enriched in NK cells from the ITGB3+ tumor microenvironment, NKG2A blockade reversed ITGB3-associated suppression of NK-derived IFN-γ secretion, supporting a functional contribution of the inhibitory NKG2A branch.ITGB3 expression in malignant cells is associated with a primed but functionally constrained NK cell state in breast cancer. Increased malignant-cell HLA-E expression and restoration of IFN-γ production following NKG2A blockade support a functional contribution of the inhibitory NKG2A branch, without excluding concurrent activating signaling through NKG2C.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Background/Objectives: Germline pharmacogenomics (PGx) testing performed by clinical laboratories and companies can reveal secondary findings (SF) related to gene-disease risk that clinicians must appropriately manage. This study evaluated PGx panel content for potential SF using the Clinical Pharmacogenomics (ClinPGx) resource, the Clinical Genome Resource (ClinGen), and the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics (ACMG). Methods: A cross-sectional review of PGx panels offered by laboratories and companies was assessed for ClinPGx PGx annotation, ClinGen's gene-disease validity and clinical actionability classifications, Clinical Pharmacogenetics Implementation Consortium (CPIC) incidental finding (IF) comments, and ACMG SF v3.3 inclusion. Results/Discussion: Forty-four testing sites provided panel content, yielding 125 genes, alleles, and variants. Of these, 26.4% (33/125) had PGx annotations while 73.6% (92/125) did not. A small subset of genes-CACNA1S, CFTR, G6PD, LDLR, MT-RNR1, and RYR1-had actionable recommendations based on CPIC and ACMG. Additional genes such as ATM, F5, ITGB3, and SCN1A may require consultation with genetics professionals. These findings underscore the need for a centralized resource for identifying gene-specific SF from germline PGx testing and guidance on their clinical management. Conclusions: PGx panels often include genes with and without established PGx annotations, some of which have potential SF implications. ClinGen's PGx Working Group, which aims to integrate PGx into the broader context of genomic medicine, may be well-positioned to facilitate the development of a standardized framework for managing potential SF from panel-based PGx testing as the field evolves.
Hypercoagulability and platelet activation are central components of COVID-19 pathophysiology. However, despite growing evidence that sex-related biological differences may influence thromboinflammatory responses, studies focusing on sex-based genetic variations in coagulation and platelet indices remain limited. This study includes 324 COVID-19 patients, investigated the sex-specific effects of FGB - 455 G > A (rs1800790) and ITGB3 T1565C (rs5918) polymorphisms. Genotypes were determined using TaqMan-based real-time PCR, and patients were stratified by sex; demographic, hematological, and biochemical data were retrieved and analyzed statistically. The GA genotype of FGB rs1800790 was more frequent in females than males, whereas the TC genotype of ITGB3 (rs5918) was less frequent in females (OR = 1.71, 95% CI: 1.06-2.76, p = 0.028; OR = 0.53, 95% CI: 0.31-0.90, p = 0.020, respectively). In the GG genotype of FGB (rs1800790), females were younger and had lower urea, creatinine, and WBC, with no differences in other parameters (p = 0.026, d = 0.367; p = 0.006, d = 0.485; p = 0.012, d = 0.440; and p = 0.010, d = 0.431 respectively). No sex differences were observed in the GA genotype, whereas aPTT was lower in AA-genotype females (p = 0.045, d = 0.830). For ITGB3 (rs5918), males with the TC genotype were older and had higher PT, ferritin, urea, creatinine, and WBC, but lower eosinophils (p = 0.030, d = 0.584; p = 0.042, d = 0.667; p = 0.001, d = 1.081; p = 0.005, d = 0.803; p = 0.020, d = 0.655; p = 0.020, d = 0.609; and p = 0.012, d = 0.733 respectively); the CC genotype was observed only in three males. These results emphasize the combined influence of sex and coagulation-related genetic variants on thrombo-inflammatory patterns in COVID-19. These findings highlight the potential clinical importance of considering sex-genotype interactions when evaluating thrombo-inflammatory responses and may contribute to more personalized risk assessment and management strategies in patients with COVID-19.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Despite the high prevalence of pediatric asthma, the molecular basis of its pathogenesis remains incompletely understood, in part due to the complex and heterogeneous nature of the disease.In this study, we performed bulk RNA sequencing of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from 183 children (114 asthma cases, 69 controls) across two independent cohorts as a minimally invasive approach to capture the gene expression changes underlying asthma status and severity.Our analysis identified robust signatures of pediatric asthma, including differential expression of a canonical asthma gene (RAB7B) and two novel genes (RPP38-DT, NCAL1), which encode long non-coding RNAs. Additionally, severity-stratified analyses revealed upregulation of several immune-related genes (CCL8, ACOD1, CXCL9, SLAMF1, EPN2) and downregulation of an uncharacterized transcript (ENSG00000288973) as asthma severity increased. Enrichment and co-expression analysis further implicate impaired type I interferon signaling in asthma disease severity.Our results demonstrate contributions to the pathobiology of asthma among several novel molecular candidate genes, which may support future efforts towards molecular stratification of pediatric asthma.© 2026. The Author(s).
Juvenile hormone (JH) is vital to insects. In Drosophila, JH signals through a basic helix-loop-helix-PER-ARNT-SIM (bHLH-PAS) protein methoprene-tolerant (MET) and its paralog germ cell-expressed (GCE). Binding of JH to the PAS-B domain of MET or GCE triggers the assembly of a DNA-bound, transcriptionally active JH receptor (JHR) heterodimer comprising either MET or GCE and their partner taiman (TAI). Molecular mechanisms of the JHR complex activation remain unclear. Here, we use the Drosophila GCE protein to address the presumably critical but as yet unexplored function of the other PAS domain (PAS-A) in JHR signaling. We show that charged amino acid residues, highly conserved within the PAS-A domain across insect and mammalian bHLH-PAS proteins, are required for JHR signaling in vitro and in vivo. Mutations at these sites do not affect the ability of GCE to bind JH to its PAS-B domain. However, they compromise the JH-induced nuclear import of GCE, its dissociation from the chaperone heat-shock protein HSP83, and dimerization with TAI, consequently preventing the DNA binding and transcriptional JHR activities. Functionality of the mutated GCE variants in developing flies is also impaired. Molecular modeling suggests that mutations of the charged GCE PAS-A residues alter the natural salt bridges critical for intra- and interdomain interactions. This in turn causes non-native configurations of both GCE PAS domains, making them incompatible with TAI dimerization and possibly augmenting GCE attachment to HSP83. These results suggest that JHR signaling critically depends on interactions between PAS-A and PAS-B domains which are allosterically coupled.
Diabetic retinopathy (DR) requires robust biomarkers. To overcome the limitations of bulk sequencing, we integrated single-cell eQTL mapping with Mendelian randomization to identify causal cell populations and genes. CD8 Teff cells were expanded in peripheral blood, showing elevation in non-DR diabetes and reaching maximal levels in DR. Mendelian randomization analysis implicated IL2RB as a putative causal marker, with the lead eQTL SNP rs3184504 demonstrating strong association (p = 8.5467 × 10-18). Colocalization analysis with DR GWAS and validation in bulk data reinforced this signal. In tissues, CellChat predicted more interactions for IL2RB+ compared to IL2RB- CD8 Teff cells, including IL16-CD4 with macrophages and NAMPT interactions with both ITGA5+ITGB1 and INSR on endothelial cells, implicating immune-vascular regulation. Together, these findings nominate IL2RB as a biomarker and therapeutic target while clarifying mechanisms underlying DR.
Prostate cancer (PCa) is one of the most common cancers in males, and its treatment remains challenging due to the tumor microenvironment (TME) with immunosuppressive properties and limited response to anti-PD-1 therapy. Gut microbiota-derived metabolites have recently emerged as modulators of cancer immunometabolism, however, their role in PCa progression and immunotherapy is poorly understood. Here we found that indole-3-lactic acid (ILA), a metabolite produced by Lactobacillus plantarum, exerted dual anti-tumor effects on PCa cells and the TME. Mechanistically, ILA activates the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR), and the resulting AHR/ARNT heterodimer translocates into the nucleus and binds to the promoter of ASF1B. This heterodimer then recruits the HDAC1/2-NuRD complex to reduce H3K27ac levels and suppress ASF1B expression. ASF1B binds to specific residues of ENO1 via its N-terminal core domain and enhances ENO1 enzymatic activity. ILA-induced downregulation of ASF1B impairs this interaction, reduces ENO1 activity, and suppresses the PI3K/Akt pathway, thereby inhibiting the malignant phenotypes of PCa cells. Concurrently, ILA decreased CXCL8 secretion by inhibiting the PI3K/Akt/NF-κB pathway, enhancing CD8+ T cell infiltration and M1 macrophage polarization, thereby remodeling the TME. Additionally, ILA synergized with anti-PD-1 therapy to more effectively suppress tumor growth. These findings reveal a novel mechanism by which gut microbiota-derived metabolites regulate PCa progression and immunometabolism, positioning ILA as a potential therapeutic agent to improve PCa treatment.© 2026. The Author(s).
The low response rate to immunotherapy in patients with lung adenocarcinoma is primarily due to tumor immune evasion. The tumor immunosuppressive microenvironment orchestrates this evasion, yet the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. Here we identify non-specific cytotoxic cell receptor protein 1 (NCCRP1) as a critical and previously uncharacterized regulator of this process.We first analyzed publicly accessible patient-derived single-cell RNA sequencing and RNA sequencing data to investigate the expression of NCCRP1 in lung adenocarcinoma and its impact on the tumor immune microenvironment. Subsequently, the Nccrp1 gene was knocked out in mouse lung adenocarcinoma cells using CRISPR-Cas9. The effect of NCCRP1 deletion on tumor growth was then evaluated using subcutaneous transplantation models in both NSG and C57BL/6 mice. Single-cell RNA sequencing, flow cytometry and multiple targeted in vivo interventions were employed to assess the influence of NCCRP1 on the tumor immune microenvironment. To explore the underlying mechanisms by which NCCRP1 regulates the tumor immune microenvironment, we conducted co-immunoprecipitation, RNA pull-down, ubiquitination assay, mass spectrometry, isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation proteomics, dual-luciferase reporter gene assay, and ELISA.Loss of NCCRP1 inhibits lung tumor growth and prolongs survival in immunocompetent C57BL/6 mouse models. NCCRP1 deficiency upregulates CX3CL1 to recruit CX3CR1+ antitumoral macrophages. These macrophages subsequently secrete CXCL9 and CXCL10, enhancing the infiltration of CD8+ T cells and NK cells into the tumor microenvironment. Mechanistically, NCCRP1 and STAU1 competitively bind to NEDD4. NCCRP1 deficiency enhances the STAU1-NEDD4 interaction, promoting ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of STAU1, thereby increasing CX3CL1 messenger RNA stability. Remarkably, ablating NCCRP1 synergized with anti-programmed cell death protein 1 or interferon-γ therapy, leading to complete tumor eradication.Our findings highlight NCCRP1 targeting as a promising therapeutic strategy to reprogram the immunosuppressive microenvironment and overcome the "cold tumor" phenotype in lung adenocarcinoma.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Based on the hypoxia-inducible factor-1α(HIF-1α)/aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator(ARNT) signaling pathway, this study aims to investigate the effects and potential mechanisms of artesunate in enhancing the effect of leflunomide on inhibiting bone destruction in rheumatoid arthritis(RA). By using in vitro osteoclast differentiation model induced by receptor activator of nuclear factor-κB ligand(RANKL) and a collagen-induced arthritis(CIA) mouse model, the intervention effect of combination treatment on bone destruction in RA was systematically evaluated at the cellular, histological, and molecular levels. Key mechanisms were analyzed and screened via transcriptomic sequencing, and relevant mechanisms were further validated through in vitro and in vivo experiments. The results show that artesunate can significantly enhance leflunomide's inhibitory effect on osteoclast formation, further reducing actin ring formation and bone resorption activity. In CIA mice, the combination treatment more effectively decreases the number of tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase(TRAP)-positive multinucleated osteoclasts in the joints compared with leflunomide alone, suggesting that artesunate potentiates leflunomide's ability to inhibit osteoclast formation and differentiation, thereby alleviating bone destruction in RA. Transcriptomic analysis indicates that artesunate may enhance leflunomide's inhibitory effect on bone destruction in RA by modulating the HIF-1α/ARNT signaling pathway. Further validation finds the nuclear co-localization of HIF-1α and ARNT during osteoclast differentiation. The combination treatment markedly suppresses HIF-1α/ARNT signaling and the expression of molecules related to downstream osteoclasts, while upregulating antioxidant-related proteins. The critical role of this signaling pathway in the combination treatment for inhibiting osteoclast differentiation is further supported by using an HIF-1α inhibitor. In summary, this study elucidated the critical role of the HIF-1α/ARNT signaling pathway in artesunate-enhanced leflunomide-mediated amelioration of bone destruction in RA, providing new experimental evidence and theoretical support for understanding the molecular mechanisms of bone destruction in RA and guiding combination treatment with leflunomide.
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) are environmental contaminants associated with various health risks. They primarily enter the human body through food. The most toxic PAH is benzo[a]pyrene (BaP), which serves as a key marker in food safety regulations. In this study, a NanoBRET-based detection system was developed to evaluate the protein-protein interaction between aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) and AhR nuclear translocator (ARNT) in response to BaP. BRET vectors encoding NanoLuc-fused AhR and HaloTag-fused ARNT were used to monitor heterodimer formation, and the optimal combination for BaP detection was selected. A cell-free assay was established to assess the biological activity of BaP by quantifying AhR/ARNT heterodimerization. This assay could be used for faster, simpler, and more biologically relevant toxicity evaluation than conventional methods. The assay was optimized to minimize protein consumption and enable high-throughput screening. Thus, this BRET-based platform provides a rapid and accurate method for detecting BaP in food safety applications.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Hepatic fibrosis (HF) serves as a critical pathological process underlying the progression of cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Despite its clinical relevance, effective anti‑fibrotic therapies remain scarce. Although total ginsenosides (GSS) can ameliorate hepatic oxidative damage and attenuate the development of HF, the molecular mechanism mediating their anti‑fibrotic effects remains incompletely elucidated. Notably, circadian clock gene dysregulation is associated with hepatic metabolic dyshomeostasis and the fibrotic process. As a core circadian gene in the liver, clock circadian regulator (CLOCK) serves a role in the progression of fibrosis. The present study hypothesized that GSS may exert anti‑fibrotic effects by restoring hepatic circadian rhythmicity through circadian clock‑dependent pathways. Using a well‑established carbon tetrachloride‑induced murine model of HF in C57BL/6 mice, GSS was administered intraperitoneally at graded doses of 50, 100 and 200 mg/kg. Subsequently, serum and liver tissues were collected from mice for histopathological examination. Furthermore, the expression levels of fibrotic markers (α‑smooth muscle actin and collagen type 1) and circadian rhythm genes [CLOCK, basic helix‑loop‑helix ARNT‑like 1, cryptochrome (CRY)1, CRY2, period circadian protein homolog (PER)1 and PER2 were assessed. At the cellular level, LX‑2 hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) were activated with TGF‑β1 and treated with GSS, after which, RNA sequencing was performed on GSS‑treated cells. In addition, the CLOCK inhibitor (CLK8) was used for in vitro experiments. The results of the present study revealed that GSS intervention effectively reversed the dysregulation of circadian gene expression and alleviated the progression of fibrosis. Molecular docking analysis further supported the interaction between GSS active components and the CLOCK protein. Thus, the current study focused on GSS and explored its role in ameliorating HF through regulation of the core circadian gene CLOCK. Collectively, the findings demonstrated that GSS may alleviate HF by rescuing circadian clock‑driven circadian homeostasis in hepatocytes and HSCs, thereby providing mechanistic insight into traditional Chinese medicine‑based interventions and identifying CLOCK as a druggable node for fibrosis therapy.
Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are a promising cell source for osteoarthritis and intervertebral disc degeneration, but their application is limited by inefficient and unstable chondrogenic differentiation. Here, nine Phorbazole D analogues were synthesized and evaluated for promoting chondrogenesis in human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells (hUC-MSCs) under TGF-β/dexamethasone based induction conditions. Among the tested analogues, IO-5a was selected for further evaluation based on its comparatively higher pro-chondrogenic activity and no detectable cytotoxicity. Image-based Alcian blue analysis showed that the positive staining area increased from approximately 17% in the control group to approximately 45% after IO-5a treatment. RT-qPCR further showed that 10 µM IO-5a upregulated COL2A1, SOX9, ACAN, and COMP by approximately 2.6-fold, 1.1-fold, 1.35-fold, and 1.4-fold, respectively. Immunofluorescence, western blotting, and 3D pellet culture analyses supported increased cartilage associated marker expression and cartilage like matrix deposition. Preliminary structure-activity relationship analysis suggested that retention of the A-ring phenolic hydroxyl group and favorable A-/C-ring substituent matching may contribute to activity. In silico target prediction and molecular docking nominated PTPN1 (PTP1B) as a potential candidate protein, although this predicted interaction requires further experimental validation. Collectively, IO-5a represents a bioactive Phorbazole D analogue with chondrogenesis promoting activity in hUC-MSCs.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
Objective: To summarize the clinical characteristics, molecular genetic features, diagnosis and treatment of pediatric B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) with myocyte enhancer factor 2D (MEF2D) gene rearrangement. Methods: In this case series study, clinical data of 9 children newly diagnosed B-ALL with MEF2D gene rearranged, admitted to the First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou University from May 2020 to June 2025 were collected. The clinical characteristics, laboratory findings, treatment regimens, and outcomes of these patients were systematically analyzed. Results: A total of 9 chlidren were enrolled (3 boys and 6 girls), with the diagnostic age of 12.0 (11.0, 13.8) years. Five children initially presented with fever accompanied by arthralgia. Immunophenotyping revealed that 1 child was early precursor B-ALL and the remaining 8 children were common B-ALL. Uniformly high expression of CD38 and absence of cytoplasmic immunoglobulin M (cIgM) expression in all 9 children. Bone marrow smear examination demonstrated cytoplasmic vacuolization in 5 children. RNA sequencing detected 5 types of MEF2D gene fusion partners, including BCL9 gene in 4 children, FOXJ2 gene in 2 children, and 1 child each of DAZAP1 gene, SS18 gene, and ARNT gene. Heterozygous deletions of CDKN2A or CDKN2B gene were detected in 6 children, and 8 children exhibited concurrent gene variations. Induction therapy with the vincristine+daunorubicin+L-asparaginase+prednisone (VDLP) regimen was administered to all 9 children in accordance with＂the Clinical Practice Guideline for Childhood Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (2018)＂. At the end of induction remission therapy, minimal residual disease (MRD) assessed by flow cytometry were all negative (<0.01%) in all cases. One child was lost to follow-up during the maintenance phase. Three children experienced relapse and succumbed. The remaining 5 children were followed up until October 10, 2025, with 2 in disease-free survival and 3 still receiving regular treatment. Conclusions: B-ALL with MEF2D gene rearrangement predominantly affects older children, typically presenting with fever accompanied by arthralgia. This subtype exhibits high CD38 expression and absence of cIgM expression, with a frequent incidence of CDKN2A or CDKN2B gene deletions. Although the initial treatment response was good, the risk of recurrence was high and the efficacy of salvage treatment was limited. For this high-risk sub-type, the use of next-generation sequencing for MRD monitoring could be explored to more accurately assess the risk of relapse.
Burn injuries constitute a significant global health challenge, with deep partial-thickness burns (deep second-degree) posing particular clinical concerns due to prolonged healing and high scarring risks stemming from reticular dermis damage. Current therapeutic strategies remain largely empirical, reflecting limited understanding of stage-specific regulatory mechanisms. This study systematically investigated the molecular basis of deep partial-thickness burn repair by establishing murine models and performing RNA-seq analysis across healing phases (0, 3, 7, 14 days post-burn, dpb). Integrated bioinformatics revealed pivotal ceRNA and PPI networks, identifying hif1a (hypoxia-responsive immunomodulator) and col1a1 (ECM remodeling hub) as nodal regulators. Mechanistically, mmu-miR-101a-3p and mmu-miR-181a-5p were validated as post-transcriptional repressors of col1a1 and hif1a, respectively. Our work pioneers the discovery of the mmu-miR-181a-5p/hif1a and mmu-miR-101a-3p/col1a1 axes as master regulators of burn repair, offering novel therapeutic targets. The multi-omics dataset and molecular networks established herein provide a foundational resource for wound healing research.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Osteosarcoma (OS) is a malignant bone tumor that predominantly affects adolescents. Due to its early metastatic tendency and chemoresistance, long-term survival rates in patients have not shown significant improvement over time, highlighting the urgent need for novel molecular targets and therapeutic strategies. Ferroptosis, a form of programmed cell death driven by iron-dependent lipid peroxidation, offers a promising avenue for overcoming drug-resistant tumors. ATP-binding cassette subfamily B member 6 (ABCB6) belongs to the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter superfamily and is mainly localised to the outer mitochondrial membrane, where it participates in haem synthesis and intracellular iron transport. Recent studies have indicated that ABCB6 is aberrantly expressed in various malignancies and regulates tumor progression, yet its role and mechanism in OS remain unexplored. The present study aims to systematically characterise the expression pattern, clinical prognostic significance, and biological functions of ABCB6 in OS, and to dissect the molecular mechanism by which ABCB6 governs ferroptosis in OS cells, thereby providing a theoretical foundation for ABCB6-targeted therapy.Human OS cell lines (HOS and 143B) and human bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) were used as research subjects. Stable ABCB6-knockdown OS cell lines were established via lentivirus-mediated RNA interference, and rescue experiments were performed using lentiviral overexpression of hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha (HIF1A). Cell proliferation was assessed by cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) and colony formation assays; migration was evaluated by Transwell and scratch wound-healing assays; apoptosis was detected by flow cytometry. Ferroptosis-related phenotypic assays were employed to determine the impact of ABCB6 expression on ferroptosis. Transcriptome sequencing was conducted to analyse differentially expressed genes and enriched pathways; chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and dual-luciferase reporter assays were applied to verify the direct binding of HIF1A to the promoter of glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) and its transcriptional regulation. Iron chelator and proteasome inhibitor interventions were used to validate the regulation of HIF1A protein stability by Fe2+. In vivo, ABCB6-knockdown and control 143B cells were injected subcutaneously into nude mice to establish a xenograft tumor model, and tumor growth was monitored.Both messenger RNA (mRNA) and protein levels of ABCB6 were significantly higher in OS cell lines than in BMSCs (both P<0.05), and analysis of the Therapeutically Applicable Research to Generate Effective Treatments (TARGET)-OS cohort revealed that patients with high ABCB6 expression had markedly worse overall survival than those with low expression [hazard ratio (HR)=2.94, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.36 to 6.36, P<0.05]. ABCB6 knockdown significantly suppressed OS cell proliferation and colony formation, reduced migratory capacity, and increased the apoptosis rate, accompanied by downregulation of N-cadherin and upregulation of E-cadherin and cleaved caspase-3 (all P<0.05). ABCB6 silencing markedly elevated the proportion of Liperfluo-positive cells and dihydroethidium (DHE) oxidation levels, increased intracellular Fe2+ concentration, decreased the glutathione (GSH)/oxidized glutathione (GSSG) ratio, reduced mitochondrial membrane potential, and induced typical ferroptotic mitochondrial morphological changes (shrinkage and cristae reduction) as observed by transmission electron microscope (all P<0.05); these oxidative alterations were reversed by the ferroptosis inhibitors. ABCB6 knockdown downregulated GPX4 at both protein and mRNA levels, whereas solute carrier family 7 member 11 (SLC7A11) expression remained unchanged (P>0.05). Transcriptome sequencing and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analysis showed significant enrichment of the HIF-1 signalling pathway in the control group (P<0.001); ABCB6 knockdown decreased HIF1A protein expression, and treatment with an iron chelator or a proteasome inhibitor reversed this degradation through Fe2+ chelation or inhibition of the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway, respectively (all P<0.05). Chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (ChIP-qPCR) and dual-luciferase reporter assays confirmed that HIF1A directly binds to the GPX4 promoter and activates its transcription. Overexpression of HIF1A in ABCB6-knockdown cells restored GPX4 expression and significantly rescued the proliferation inhibition, migration impairment, and apoptosis increase caused by ABCB6 silencing, while also restoring mitochondrial membrane potential (all P<0.05). In the xenograft model, tumors from the ABCB6-knockdown group exhibited significantly reduced volume and weight compared with the control group (all P<0.05); immunohistochemistry confirmed downregulation of HIF1A and GPX4, reduced Ki-67 and N-cadherin positivity, and increased cleaved caspase-3 and E-cadherin positivity in the knockdown group (all P<0.05).This study systematically uncovers, for the first time, the oncogenic role and prognostic value of ABCB6 in OS, and delineates the complete "ABCB6/Fe2+/HIF1A/GPX4" axis that governs ferroptosis in OS cells. These findings not only provide a novel biomarker for molecular subtyping and prognostic evaluation of OS, but also establish a theoretical basis for therapeutic strategies that target the ABCB6/HIF1A/GPX4 axis to induce ferroptosis. Future investigations may explore the upstream regulators of ABCB6 and its potential utility in reversing chemoresistance in OS.
Hypoxia is a defining feature of the tumor microenvironment and a key driver of malignant progression through transcriptional reprogramming of metabolic, angiogenic, and survival pathways. In this study, hypoxia-induced molecular responses were investigated in human hepatocellular carcinoma (HepG2) and breast adenocarcinoma (MCF-7) cells using cobalt(II) chloride (CoCl2) as a hypoxia mimetic. Cell viability profiling was performed to determine the optimal experimental concentration, followed by quantitative PCR analysis of hypoxia-related genes and miRNA-gene interaction network analysis. Cell viability profiling identified 100 µM CoCl2 as the optimal condition for downstream analyses. Quantitative PCR revealed robust induction of HIF-1α in both cell lines, indicating activation of hypoxic signaling. However, downstream responses differed markedly between cell types. MCF-7 cells exhibited significant upregulation of SLC2A1 and increased VEGFA and NFKB1 expression, consistent with activation of glycolytic and pro-angiogenic pathways. In contrast, HepG2 cells showed limited downstream transcriptional engagement despite elevated HIF1A expression. Furthermore, miRNA-gene interaction analysis revealed a dense regulatory network in MCF-7 cells, whereas HepG2 cells displayed a more restricted, VEGFA-centered miRNA profile. These findings demonstrate that chemical hypoxia induces cell-type-specific transcriptional and post-transcriptional responses in breast and liver cancer cells. The results suggest that miRNA-mediated regulation may contribute to differential tumor adaptation to hypoxic stress and highlight the importance of cellular context in hypoxia-associated signaling pathways.
Chondrosarcoma is a common bone sarcoma in adults with limited therapeutic options due to frequent chemoresistance. Cisplatin (CDDP) is a key chemotherapeutic agent, but resistance often develops. This study investigated the role and mechanism of circular RNA HMGB2 (circHMGB2) in cisplatin resistance of chondrosarcoma. Clinically, circHMGB2 was upregulated in chondrosarcoma tumors and associated with cisplatin resistance and poor patient survival. Functionally, exogenous overexpression of circHMGB2 elevated cisplatin resistance in chondrosarcoma cells (SW1353, OUMS-27) in vitro, while its silencing re-sensitized resistant cells. Mechanistically, circHMGB2 did not function as a miRNA sponge but acted as a competitive molecular decoy for the RNA-binding protein IGF2BP1. We demonstrated that circHMGB2 directly binds IGF2BP1, competitively impairing IGF2BP1's binding to and stabilization of Grb10 mRNA, leading to its destabilization and subsequent downregulation of Grb10 protein. This suppression of Grb10, a known negative regulator of the PI3K/Akt pathway, resulted in constitutive Akt phosphorylation, driving resistance. Crucially, co-overexpression of IGF2BP1 rescued circHMGB2-induced Grb10 downregulation, Akt activation, and cisplatin resistance, validating the decoy mechanism. Furthermore, in a cisplatin-resistant xenograft model, silencing circHMGB2 synergized with cisplatin to significantly inhibit tumor growth, improve host survival, and upregulate intratumoral Grb10 while suppressing Akt phosphorylation. Our results delineate a novel circHMGB2/IGF2BP1/Grb10/Akt axis that drives cisplatin resistance in chondrosarcoma. Targeting circHMGB2 could therefore serve as a promising therapeutic strategy to overcome chemoresistance and enhance treatment efficacy.
Hypoxic stress triggers transcriptional signaling mainly through hypoxia-inducible transcription factors (HIFs), which bind hypoxia response elements (HREs) in gene regulatory regions. However, only a small proportion (~1%) of known HREs are occupied by HIFs during hypoxia, suggesting the involvement of additional hypoxia-responsive factors. To address this gap, we utilized MNase-defined cistrome Occupancy Analysis sequencing (MOA-seq), with the term cistrome referring to all genomic regions where transcription factors and other trans-acting regulators are bound to cis-acting elements across the genome for a particular cell type or treatment. This MNase-based assay enables genome-wide, high-resolution (<30 bp) identification of transcription factor (TF) occupancy footprints embedded within larger regions, most of which were previously annotated as open or accessible chromatin. Applying this in situ cistrome mapping to fixed nuclei from endothelial cells under normoxia or hypoxia (1, 3, or 24 hr) revealed thousands of hypoxia-responsive genomic sites with dynamic TF footprints. The affected genes were enriched in canonical hypoxia-induced pathways, such as angiogenesis. Motif analysis identified over 100 candidate TFs potentially mediating these multifaceted genomic responses. By grouping hypoxia-modified occupancy signals across the hypoxia exposure times, we clustered differentially occupied MOA sites into defined 10 distinct TF kinetic clusters, half of which were associated with HIF1A. HIF1A-proximal binding sites suggested co-activators, while non-HIF1A clusters pointed to additional TFs that may have HIF1A-independent roles. This analysis provides insight into how multiple TF networks coordinate hypoxia responses and highlights the power of cistrome profiling to deepen our understanding of the complex genomic response to low oxygen conditions.© 2026, Singh et al.
Secondary lymphedema remains poorly understood, particularly with regard to early human tissue responses after lymphatic outflow disruption. This study evaluates the perforator-based adipocutaneous skin paddle (PBASP) from vascularized free muscle flaps as a hypothesis-generating human tissue platform for early localized lymphatic insufficiency. The PBASP, receives arterial and venous perfusion but is not reconnected to physiological lymphatic outflow and was therefore hypothesized to develop changes consistent with early local lymphatic outflow insufficiency. Tissue samples were collected from 15 patients who underwent free muscle flap transfer, with PBASP samples obtained 7-14 days post-surgery. Histological, immunofluorescence, molecular, and protein analyses were performed to assess lymphangiogenesis, inflammation, extracellular matrix remodeling, and adipogenesis. PBASP tissue exhibited epidermal thickening, dermal expansion, subcutaneous matrix loosening, and leukocyte infiltration. Immunofluorescence showed a 3.6-fold increase in LYVE-1 + lymphatic vessel cross-sectional area. Gene expression analysis revealed upregulation of markers like VEGF-C, VEGFR3, IL-6, and MMP-9. ELISA demonstrated increased LYVE-1, IL-6, and COL1A1 protein levels. Together, PBASP tissues showed structural, lymphatic-marker, inflammatory, and early remodeling changes consistent with early localized lymphatic outflow insufficiency. Together, these findings support the PBASP-derived approach as a paired human tissue platform for studying early, localized lymphatic insufficiency and for generating mechanistic hypotheses relevant to secondary lymphedema.© 2026. The Author(s).
Annexin A1 (AnxA1) regulates inflammation and neovascularization in ocular diseases, influencing growth factor signaling and cytoskeletal dynamics. Accordingly, this study aimed to investigate the role of the AnxA1 protein in diabetic retinopathy (DR) and to understand how its absence affects inflammation and vascular dysfunction in DR.DR model was induced 12 weeks after streptozotocin injection in wild-type (AnxA1+/+) and AnxA1 knockout (AnxA1-/-) mice. We evaluated the consequences of AnxA1 deficiency on retinal morphology, Müller cell activation, inflammation, and angiogenesis associated with DR. We also performed an in silico analysis in wild-type animals with DR induced for 6 weeks and in a dataset of patients with DR. Furthermore, a choroidal neovascularization model was used to evaluate the role of AnxA1 in angiogenesis signaling.AnxA1 deficiency exacerbated selective systemic inflammatory alterations and promoted retinal neurodegeneration associated with DR. AnxA1-/- diabetic animals exhibited increased circulating IL-6, IL-17, chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 1, and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 levels, retinal monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 and IL-4 upregulation, dysregulated MAPK/STAT3 signaling, and altered gliosis responses. In addition, AnxA1 deficiency was associated with a proangiogenic signaling profile characterized by increased retinal levels of EGF, VEGF-A, and endothelin-1 in DR, whereas the upregulation of VEGF-C was predominantly observed in the choroidal neovascularization model.Endogenous AnxA1 modulates inflammatory-glial and proangiogenic signaling pathways in the diabetic retina. Its deficiency is associated with selective inflammatory dysregulation and enhanced angiogenesis-related signaling during DR progression.
Ischemic tissue perfusion remains a major clinical challenge despite VEGF's central role in angiogenesis. Limited success of VEGF-based therapies underscores the need to understand endothelial heterogeneity, as distinct subsets exhibit differential responsiveness. This study explores conserved endothelial states that govern VEGF-driven angiogenesis across human organs and evaluates their functional significance.We performed single-cell and single-nucleus RNA-sequencing (scRNA-seq/snRNA-seq) analysis of endothelial cells (ECs) from eight human tissues using GTEx data, validated findings in independent skin and heart datasets, and conducted CRISPR-mediated PLCγ2 knockout in cultured ECs followed by scRNA-seq.Analysis of 209,126 nuclei revealed a universal arterial-like endothelial subset (cluster 2) enriched across all organs, characterized by high expression of PLCγ2, a critical VEGF signaling effector. PLCγ2high cells exhibited robust angiogenic and lymphangiogenic programs, including upregulation of VEGFC, NOTCH4, and JAG1, and enrichment of pathways for vasculature development and endothelial differentiation. Cell-cell communication analysis demonstrated exclusive BMP6, IGF2, and CXCL12 signaling from PLCγ2high cells to fibroblasts, pericytes, and immune cells, positioning this subset as a central angiogenic hub. Functional validation showed that PLCγ2 knockout depleted PLCγ2high clusters, suppressed VEGF signaling, and diminished BMP6 ligand secretion, confirming its role in maintaining proangiogenic endothelial states.Ineffective targeting of the appropriate EC state may limit current therapeutic VEGF strategies, positioning PLCγ2high ECs as a clinically relevant target.We identify PLCγ2high arterial ECs as a conserved pan-organ population critical for VEGF responsiveness and vascular regeneration. These findings reimagine VEGF therapy by highlighting PLCγ2 as a critical regulator of a proangiogenic arterial-like endothelial state and a promising combinatorial target to overcome limitations of current angiogenic strategies.
Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) causes significant morbidity and mortality during viral pneumonia, including SARS-CoV-2 infections. Nevertheless, most patients with SARS-CoV-2 infections recover seamlessly without developing ARDS, suggesting the existence of endogenous pathways to protect the lungs. Since microRNAs (miRNAs) can regulate endogenous molecular pathways involved in lung protection, we hypothesized that alveolar miRNAs could function to dampen SARS-CoV-2-associated lung injury.Screening studies in human alveolar epithelial cells and SARS-CoV-2-infected mice were performed to identify miRNAs induced during infection. Candidate miRNAs were confirmed via RT-qPCR. The role of hypoxia-inducible factor 1A (HIF1A) in regulating miRNA expression was examined in molecular studies. Loss- and gain-of-function approaches in a murine SARS-CoV-2 ARDS model were used to assess the physiological relevance of miRNA. Viral sequence analyses and site-directed mutagenesis were used to determine direct miRNA - viral RNA interactions.Screening studies identified miR-147b (hsa-miR-147b-3p or mmu-miR-147-3p) as the leading candidate during infection of human alveolar epithelia or mice with SARS-CoV-2. Functional and molecular studies implicate HIF1A in miR-147b induction during alveolar injury or SARS-CoV-2 infection. Studies in mice with induced deletion of miR-147b in alveolar epithelia (miR147fl/fl SPC-CreER mice) or nano-particle-mediated miR-147b overexpression revealed a protective role of alveolar-expressed miR-147b during murine SARS-CoV-2-associated ARDS. Moreover, we identified the ORF8 region within the SARS-CoV-2 template strand as a direct target of miR-147b, with an ORF8 silent mutation of the SARS-CoV-2 miR-147b-binding site abolishing the observed protection in vitro and in vivo.Alveolar epithelial cell-derived miR-147b serves as an endogenous lung protective miRNA against SARS-CoV-2-associated ARDS by directly targeting virus-encoded RNA, revealing a previously unrecognized antiviral and lung-protective mechanism.
Elucidating the complex molecular drivers of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and identifying novel therapeutic targets are urgently needed. Although circPRKCA is implicated in tumorigenesis, its role in NSCLC remains poorly characterized. This study investigates the biological functions and regulatory mechanisms of circPRKCA in NSCLC. CircPRKCA expression and downstream target expression were assessed via qRT-PCR and Western blotting. In vitro functional assays evaluated circPRKCA's role in NSCLC cells. Regulatory mechanisms were further examined using database analysis, RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP), and dual-luciferase reporter assays. In vivo tumor growth was evaluated in mouse xenograft models. CircPRKCA was significantly upregulated in NSCLC and promoted tumor growth and metastasis. Our data suggest that circPRKCA may act as a scaffold for RNA-binding proteins (RBPs), potentially facilitating the recruitment of SRSF1 to HIF-1A mRNA, which appeared to correlate with increased HIF-1A stability. HIF-1A overexpression enhanced NSCLC cell proliferation via PKM2-mediated glycolysis. High circPRKCA expression correlated with poor survival in NSCLC patients. CircPRKCA-SRSF1 axis enhanced proliferation and suppressed apoptosis by stabilizing HIF-1A and modulating PKM2-driven glycolysis. These findings reveal novel diagnostic biomarkers and therapeutic strategies for NSCLC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The ovarian cancer immunoreactive antigen domain-containing protein 1 (OCIAD1) is a mitochondrial protein implicated in mitochondrial morphology, energy metabolism, and differentiation. Although understudied, recent studies position it as a critical player in carcinogenesis and neurodegenerative disorders, making it a potentially druggable node in cellular signaling networks. However, the phosphoregulatory networks and the upstream kinases governing OCIAD1 remain unknown.A large-scale literature mining and analysis of 177 phosphoproteomic datasets with differential expression of OCIAD1 was carried out to map its phosphoregulatory network. The predominant phosphosites were determined based on localization probability, detection frequency, and differential regulation. Multipronged computational approaches were employed to gather novel candidate kinases that may target OCIAD1 phosphosites. Co-differential phosphorylation analysis was conducted with other proteins, including interactors and candidate upstream kinases, to infer functional and regulatory associations.The sites S108 and S123 emerged as predominant, together accounting for 70% of OCIAD1 phosphorylation. Co-differential phosphorylation analysis revealed associations with proteins involved in the cell cycle, DNA repair, autophagy, mitophagy, endocytosis, and apoptosis. Novel candidate kinases for OCIAD1 phosphosites were identified; notably, SRMS and YES1 emerged as potential upstream regulators of Y199. Furthermore, the phosphosites in the candidate kinases of sites, including PLK1 (T210), CDK13 (S383, S397), PRKD2 (S200), CIT (S1343), and RPS6KA3 (T577), showed strong positive co-differential regulation with OCIAD1 predominant sites, supporting their potential involvement as upstream kinases.This study presents the first systematic map of the OCIAD1 phosphoregulatory network and provides candidate upstream kinases that may contribute to its phosphorylation, which warrant further experimental validation. The strong co-differential regulation of proteins involved in autophagy, mitophagy, endocytosis, and neurodegenerative pathways, as well as of kinases that orchestrate these processes, suggests that OCIAD1 phosphoregulatory network maybe involved in mitochondrial quality control and mitochondria-associated neurodegeneration, establishing a foundation for therapeutic investigations targeting OCIAD1 signaling.Copyright © 2026 Fahma, Subair, Lubaba, Gopalakrishnan, Shivamurthy and Raju.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42448519
Breast cancer (BC) and non-small cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC) are two of the most prevalent and lethal malignancies, with shared molecular alterations that could serve as biomarkers for diagnosis and therapy. We employed integrated bioinformatics approaches to identify common hub genes in both cancers by analyzing eight GEO transcriptomic datasets. The protein-protein interaction network revealed ten hub genes: five upregulated (TOP2A, CCNB1, CCNB2, MELK, and UBE2C) and five downregulated (CDH5, MMRN2, RAMP2, CCM2L, and CD36), which were validated through transcriptomic analyses. These genes were associated with key process such as cell-cycle regulation, DNA replication, angiogenesis, and endothelial integrity. Among the hub genes analyzed, significant survival associations were observed for selected genes in a cancer-type-specific manner, particularly for several upregulated hub genes in LUAD, whereas most hub genes showed no statistically significant association with overall survival. Molecular docking results demonstrated favorable interactions between WGX-50 and these targets, with the top vina scores indicating a strong binding affinity. Subsequent molecular dynamics simulations of WGX-50 with CD36 and MELK confirmed stable interactions, involving hydrogen bonds, hydrophobic interactions, and water bridges. These findings highlight the therapeutic potential of WGX-50 as a multitarget anticancer agent capable of modulating multiple signaling cascades. This Insilico study provides valuable insights into the development of targeted therapies for BC, NSCLC, and presents WGX-50 as a promising anticancer candidate.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Rapid information processing in complex organisms depends on myelin, which consists of a multilamellar membrane that tightly adheres to the axonal surface along the internode and at paranodal loops, where specialized adhesion proteins maintain axon-glial contact. Because the decision to myelinate an axon profoundly influences neuronal transmission, this process must be precisely regulated. Yet, it remains unclear which specific molecules enable oligodendrocytes to select appropriate axonal substrates for myelination. Several key myelin-associated adhesion systems have been identified, including Myelin-associated glycoprotein (Mag) and Cell Adhesion Molecule 4 (Cadm4) at the internode, as well as Contactin1 (Cntn1) at the paranode; however, these three adhesion molecules have not previously been deleted in combination. Here, using zebrafish, we systematically disrupted all three myelin-associated adhesion systems. We found that the combined loss of Mag, Cadm4, and Cntn1 severely impairs myelin initiation and destabilizes the few nascent sheaths that do form, resulting in a phenotype characterized by oligodendrocytes exhibiting membrane "stubs". The failure to form myelin triggered cell death of early myelinating oligodendrocytes and resulted in profound hypomyelination. Our findings reveal that axonal target selection and myelin formation depend on a redundant set of adhesion molecules, and that their simultaneous loss largely abolishes myelin biogenesis.Copyright: © 2026 Radha et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42330294
Data about hereditary angioedema (HAE) from Latin American countries are lacking. Our main objective was to characterize the epidemiology, clinical presentation, and treatment patterns of HAE patients from Argentina at a nationwide level.A non-interventional, observational, web-based survey was conducted, aimed at physicians treating patients with a confirmed diagnosis of HAE. Data about demographic characteristics, HAE type and family history, clinical pattern, attack frequency and triggers, treatment patterns, and use of validated HAE scores were collected to develop a patient registry.Data from 538 patients submitted by 75 physicians were obtained. Median age was 33 years (IQR:20-46). Most patients were female (58.73%). Median age at presentation of first symptoms was 12 years (IQR:5-18). Median time from presentation to a confirmed diagnosis of HAE was 10 years (IQR:5-18). Most patients had deficiency of C1-INH (HAE-1, 76%). Variants in the F12 gene (HAE-FXII) were found in 7% of subjects; variants in DAB2IP (p.D239 N) (HAE-DAB2IP) were identified in 7 subjects. Severity of HAE was predominantly moderate (37%). Most reported triggers were emotional stress (75.55%) and physical trauma (69.59%). Specific treatment for attacks was prescribed for 88% of patients. Icatibant was the most prescribed drug (76.91%). Long-term prophylaxis (LTP) was used in 28.34% of subjects, with lanadelumab being the most prescribed agent (58.45%).Argentine HAE patients share several characteristics with patients from real-world studies, but some findings (time to diagnosis, low LTP rates, relatively high rates of HAE-FXII and a novel, recently characterized form of HAE-DAB2IP) require further research.© 2026 Published by Elsevier Inc. on behalf of World Allergy Organization.
Diabetic osteoporosis (DMOP) involves impaired bone formation driven by mitochondrial dysfunction and osteoblast apoptosis. Current treatments do not address these mechanisms.To evaluate whether Neoprzewaquinone A (NEO), a natural compound from Salvia miltiorrhiza, can protect bone by restoring mitochondrial integrity and activating survival signaling.Bioinformatics, molecular docking, and biophysical assays were combined with in vitro and in vivo studies. Mouse osteoblasts were exposed to glucolipotoxic conditions, and DMOP was induced in C57BL/6 mice. NEO's effects on mitochondrial morphology, mitochondrial membrane potential, ATP production, ROS, apoptosis markers, and PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling were assessed using imaging, flow cytometry, western blotting, and micro-CT.Glucolipotoxic stress caused mitochondrial damage, ROS accumulation, and suppression of ELF5/PRKD2 and PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling. NEO bound PRKD2 with high affinity (KD ≈ 10⁻6 M), restored pathway activation, reduced ROS, attenuated HGPA-induced mitochondrial depolarization, restored ATP levels, and preserved mitochondrial ultrastructure. In diabetic mice, oral NEO improved bone mineral density, trabecular architecture, and mechanical strength without detectable toxicity.NEO mitigates diabetic bone loss by rescuing mitochondrial function and activating the ELF5/PRKD2/PI3K/AKT/mTOR axis. These findings highlight mitochondrial protection as a promising strategy for DMOP therapy and position NEO as a candidate for mechanism-based treatment.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a leading cause of cancer-related deaths globally, and cases are predicted to rise dramatically over the next few years. Overcoming the immune microenvironment in HCC remains a challenge, and innate immune populations such as tumour-associated neutrophils can potentially impair the success of immunotherapy. Elucidating the mechanisms of neutrophil recruitment across liver endothelium could lead to new approaches to boost the efficacy of immunotherapy. CLEC14A is an endothelium-specific receptor regulating sprouting angiogenesis, upregulated in low shear environments. We found CLEC14A to be highly expressed in both HCC vessels and on vasculature during acute liver injury, leading us to hypothesise that CLEC14A may regulate neutrophil recruitment to the liver and HCC. We found that CLEC14A positively correlated with a neutrophil signature and infiltration in public datasets and surgically resected tissue from HCC. Spatial transcriptomics (ST) of CLEC14Ahigh- and CLEC14Alow-expressing tumours confirmed upregulation of myeloperoxidase in CLEC14Ahigh tumours and correlation with other shear-dependent markers but a negative correlation with vascular endothelial growth factor A. To build on our correlation studies, we explored the role of CLEC14A in neutrophil recruitment across liver endothelium. We undertook in vitro recruitment studies with flow-based human liver endothelial assays and in vivo models of neutrophil recruitment. Using siRNA knockdown of CLEC14A and specific blocking antibodies to CLEC14A, we found that CLEC14A knockdown blocked the firm adhesion of neutrophils to liver endothelium, but this was independent of its interaction with its known ligand MMRN2. Finally, we confirmed that Clec14a deficiency led to a significant reduction in neutrophil recruitment across the sinusoids in an ischaemia-reperfusion liver injury model. We unveil a link between the angiogenic receptor CLEC14A and neutrophil recruitment. Targeting of CLEC14A on tumour endothelium is potentially a new approach to regulating neutrophil infiltration in HCC. © 2026 The Author(s). The Journal of Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.© 2026 The Author(s). The Journal of Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.
In advanced Prostate Cancer (PCa), metastatic spread and the inevitable emergence of enzalutamide resistance represent major clinical hurdles. Although apolipoprotein L3 (APOL3) is linked to oncogenesis, its precise mechanistic role in PCa progression and antiandrogen resistance, particularly its regulation of the STAT3-DAB2IP axis, remains largely unexplored.Publicly available clinical datasets were analyzed to evaluate APOL3 expression and its prognostic value. The functional consequences of modulating APOL3 and DAB2IP levels were assessed using in vitro and in vivo PCa models, including an established enzalutamide-resistant cell line (C4-2R). Mechanistic insights into cellular proliferation, motility, angiogenesis, and drug response were derived from RNA sequencing, reciprocal co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP), and dual-targeting phenotypic assays.APOL3 is significantly upregulated in PCa, strongly correlating with elevated Gleason scores, advanced stage, TP53 mutational status, and poor prognosis. Functionally, APOL3 promotes PCa proliferation, metastasis, and angiogenesis. Mechanistically, APOL3 sustains STAT3 phosphorylation and suppresses the tumor suppressor DAB2IP. Notably, Co-IP assays revealed a direct, bidirectional physical interaction between APOL3 and DAB2IP. Furthermore, we discovered that elevated APOL3 drives enzalutamide resistance not by enhancing classical Androgen Receptor (AR) activity, but by directly binding the Glucocorticoid Receptor (GR). This APOL3-GR complex activates a bypass signaling pathway entirely independent of the AR. While restoring DAB2IP resensitized cells to enzalutamide, it triggered a compensatory upregulation of APOL3. Consequently, concurrent APOL3 knockdown and DAB2IP overexpression yielded a powerful synergistic effect, profoundly dismantling malignant phenotypes, suppressing pro-metastatic markers (p-STAT3, VEGF, SNAIL, MMP2), and restoring enzalutamide sensitivity.These findings establish APOL3 as a central driver of prostate cancer metastasis and enzalutamide resistance. APOL3 drives these aggressive phenotypes by directly binding and suppressing DAB2IP to sustain oncogenic STAT3 signaling, and by activating an AR-independent bypass pathway through its physical interaction with the Glucocorticoid Receptor (GR). The enrichment of APOL3 in TP53-mutated and resistant tumors underscores its critical role in tumor plasticity. Consequently, synergistically co-targeting APOL3 alongside DAB2IP restoration represents a highly promising therapeutic strategy to overcome adaptive antiandrogen resistance and halt metastatic progression.APOL3 is a central driver of PCa aggressiveness and enzalutamide resistance, functioning via the direct modulation of the DAB2IP/STAT3 axis and the activation of the GR bypass pathway. Cotargeting APOL3 alongside DAB2IP restoration represents a highly promising, synergistic therapeutic strategy to circumvent adaptive resistance and halt metastatic progression in advanced castration-resistant prostate cancer.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
The 2025 World Allergy Organization (WAO) Guidelines for the Classification, Diagnosis, and Treatment of Hereditary Angioedema (HAE) with Consideration of Worldwide Disparities provide a comprehensive, evidence-informed, and globally applicable framework for the care of this rare and potentially life-threatening disorder. HAE is a genetic disease characterized by recurrent episodes of subcutaneous and submucosal swelling, most commonly mediated by bradykinin, and is associated with substantial morbidity, impaired quality of life, and a lifelong risk of fatal laryngeal edema. The Guidelines were developed by an international panel of 40 experts from 22 countries, with representation from all world regions, reflecting the commitment of WAO to geographic diversity, inclusiveness, and global relevance. The development process for these guidelines followed a structured and transparent methodology that integrated systematic literature review, appraisal of real-world evidence, and application of the Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) framework adapted for rare diseases, complemented by a formal Delphi consensus process. This approach was specifically designed to address the limitations of conventional evidence hierarchies in rare disorders, while ensuring clinical applicability across heterogeneous healthcare systems and resource settings. A central element of the guidelines is an updated classification of HAE based on underlying pathophysiology and disease endotypes. The traditional distinction between HAE types 1 and 2 is unified under the term HAE with C1 inhibitor deficiency (HAE-C1-INH), reflecting shared biological mechanisms and management principles. The guidelines also recognize an expanding spectrum of HAE with normal C1 inhibitor (HAE-nC1-INH), including forms associated with pathogenic variants in F12, PLG, ANGPT1, KNG1, MYOF, HS3ST6, CPN1, and DAB2IP, as well as cases with currently unidentified genetic causes. The diagnostic strategy emphasizes early clinical recognition based on characteristic features, including recurrent angioedema without urticaria, abdominal or laryngeal involvement, early symptom onset, and family history. A simplified diagnostic algorithm is proposed, prioritizing the C1 inhibitor functional assay as the preferred initial test when performed in a reliable specialized laboratory. Alternative diagnostic pathways are outlined for settings with limited access to specialized testing, including pragmatic combinations of biochemical assays and selective use of genetic testing, particularly relevant for HAE-nC1-INH and family screening. Management recommendations address on-demand treatment of acute attacks, short-term prophylaxis, and individualized long-term prophylaxis. Universal access to on-demand therapy is emphasized for all patients with confirmed HAE, including those who are asymptomatic, given the unpredictable nature of attacks and lifelong risk. Long-term prophylaxis is addressed within a treat-to-target framework aimed at achieving complete disease control and sustained improvement in health-related quality of life, with regular reassessment and shared decision-making. Empowering patients and caregivers through structured education, access to appropriate medications, and integration with specialized referral centers is associated with earlier treatment, reduced healthcare utilization, and improved equity of care and reduced avoidable morbidity and mortality worldwide. The 2025 WAO Guidelines for Hereditary Angioedema establish an evidence-informed, patient-centered, and forward-looking framework for the classification, diagnosis, and management of HAE. By integrating advances in pathophysiology, diagnostics, and therapeutics with global expert consensus and real-world considerations, the guidelines aim to support consistent, equitable, and high-quality care for patients with HAE across regions and healthcare systems.© 2026 The Author(s).
Feed efficiency (FE) is recognized as a vital component of sustainable dairy production, with residual feed intake (RFI) serving as a key metabolic indicator of FE independent of production levels. However, the genetic improvement of this complex trait is limited by the inability of conventional genomic Best Linear Unbiased Prediction (gBLUP) model to capture complex, non-linear genetic architectures and epistatic interactions. To address these limitations, this study aims to compare the predictive performance of machine learning (ML) approaches, specifically Random Forest (RF) and Multi-Layer Perceptron (MLP) models, against standard gBLUP using genomic data from 220 UK Holstein cows genotyped with the BovineSNP50 v3 BeadChip with 47,446 quality-controlled single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), phenotyped for RFI from 1996-2023. SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) were applied to interpret SNP feature importance from the ML models, and an ensemble framework was implemented to leverage the complementary strengths of RF and MLP.While the gBLUP model exhibited moderate predictive performance, the RF model demonstrated greater stability and accuracy compared to gBLUP, and the MLP showed higher variance across random states. The ensemble framework achieved the highest coefficient of determination (R2 = 0.39) and lowest root mean squared error (RMSE = 0.086). SHAP interpretability analysis revealed distinct genomic architectures between the models. The RF model prioritized genes regulating mitochondrial oxidation and immune surveillance, including SKINT1 and PPARGC1A, whereas the MLP model identified genes involved in lipid metabolism and fat storage, including APCDD1 and ADIPOR1. A convergence of biological signals was observed between the models, with nine common SNPs and 32 consensus genes identified, including ACOD1, CNTNAP2, and core spliceosomal snRNAs.These results suggest that the genetic architecture of RFI may be explored by ML methods as they offer flexibility in mapping non-additive genetic effects. The reliability of genomic predictions for complex traits was enhanced when complementary computational strategies were leveraged in an ensemble framework, providing a focused set of candidate genes for future experimental validation. Whilst exploratory gene networks require validation in larger cohorts, the ensemble ML framework presented here offers an interpretable approach for dissecting the genetic architecture of complex production traits in livestock.© 2026. Crown.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42563993 is a review article
Metritis is a major cause of infertility, contributing to repeat breeding, early embryonic loss, fetal mortality, and abortion.This study investigated alterations in metabolic, hormonal, oxidative, immunological, and molecular markers associated with metritis susceptibility in dromedary camels (Camelus dromedarius). A total of 100 non-lactating multiparous females (87 healthy and 13 metritic) were examined. Blood samples were collected and analyzed to evaluate hematobiochemical parameters, inflammatory and antioxidant markers, and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in selected immune- and antioxidant-related genes.Metritic animals exhibited fever and abnormal uterine discharge. Gene expression analysis showed significant upregulation of CARD9, SIGLEC1, VSIG4, BTRC, SLC2A3, ACOD1, and PFKFB3, alongside downregulation of CPT1A, ATF4, GADD45B, SLC7A11, and PRDX3. Sequencing identified 19 SNPs, with significant differences in genotype distribution between groups, and discriminant analysis achieved complete classification accuracy. Hematological findings included normocytic normochromic anemia, leukocytosis, neutrophilia, lymphopenia, and monocytosis. Biochemically, metritic camels showed hypoglycemia and decreased levels of estrogen, progesterone, FSH, LH, T4, calcium, and antioxidant markers (GSH, CAT, and TAC), while NEFA, BHBA, cortisol, MDA, and pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL1α, IL1β, IL6, IL10, and TNFα) were significantly elevated.Overall, clinical metritis in dromedary camels was associated with significant hematological, metabolic, hormonal, oxidative, immunological, and genetic alterations. These findings identify a panel of reproductive and molecular biomarkers that may serve as promising candidate biomarkers associated with clinical metritis. However, given the observational nature of the study and the relatively small number of metritic she-camels, these findings should be interpreted with caution and require validation in larger, independent camel populations before their diagnostic, prognostic, or breeding applications can be established.Copyright © 2026 Alqhtani, Elsayed, Al-Hazani, Elkhidr, Abdelnaby, Almubarak, Al-Rasheed, Emam, Safhi, Zarah, Ateya and Marzok.
Glioblastoma (GBM) is an aggressive brain tumor characterized by rapid growth and infiltration. New therapies are desperately needed to improve GBM patient outcomes. Intra-tumoral heterogeneity is a common driver of failure for novel GBM treatments, and many preclinical studies rely on cell lines established from the tumor core. As a result, they fail to characterize the infiltrative tumor cells, which remain post-surgery and ultimately drive tumor recurrence.This study characterizes the membrane proteome of 3 patient-derived GBM cell lines isolated from the tumor invasive margin (GIN8, GIN28, and GIN31), which is a proxy for residual disease post-surgery. We combined plasma membrane protein analysis with total protein analysis using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry to uncover therapeutic targets most amenable for drug repurposing. Molecular docking analysis predicted specific binding pockets on the surface of key membrane proteins against which the top 10 approved drug candidates were screened based on their binding energy scores.Membrane proteins such as EDIL3, DYSF, ROBO1, SERPINE2, LOXL1, and CD70 were consistently significantly upregulated across GBM cell lines relative to healthy astrocyte controls, indicating potential functional roles in GBM progression. Molecular docking identified nilotinib (targeting LOXL1) and darifenacin (targeting SH3KBP1) as candidate drugs that can bind to identified membrane proteins. Nilotinib and darifenacin produced average IC50 values of 8.45 µM and 46.77 µM, respectively, in cell viability assays against GIN cell lines.These findings suggest that targeting membrane proteins offers promise for developing effective GBM therapies predicated on the most prognostically relevant intra-tumor region.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press, the Society for Neuro-Oncology and the European Association of Neuro-Oncology.
Identify genetic variants associated with amblyopia in African American (AFR) and Admixed American (AMR) ancestry groups, expanding upon a previous studies conducted in European ancestry.Retrospective ancestry-stratified genome-wide association study (GWAS) and gene-level rare variant association study (RVAS).Participants in the All of Us Research Program from AFR and AMR ancestry groups with whole genome sequencing available. Cases and controls were distinguished based on presence of ICD-9/10/SNOMED diagnosis codes for amblyopia in electronic health records. This yielded ancestry-stratified subsets of 269 cases and 71,585 controls of AMR ancestry and 366 cases and 79,460 controls of AFR ancestry.Stratified logistic regression models adjusted for age, sex, and the top 10 principal components of genomic ancestry. GWAS was limited to common variants (mean allele frequency or MAF > 1%) and RVAS was limited to rare variants with coding sequence-altering effects (MAF < 1%, exonic only, excluded synonymous variants) aggregated at the gene level using the SKAT algorithm. Downstream analyses of the significant variants were performed using KEGG and GO pathway analysis and STRING database queries for protein-protein interactions and gene-gene interactions.Single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were determined to have genome-wide significance if p < 5e-8 in the GWAS and genes were determined to have significant association with amblyopia in the RVAS if p < 8.0 x 10-4.In the AMR GWAS, 245 unique SNPs mapping to 97 distinct loci were identified, notably within neurodevelopmental and axonal guidance genes, including ROBO1, SEMA4B, PTPRD, NRXN1, and CAMK2D. The AFR GWAS identified 11 significant variants corresponding to 6 loci mapping primarily to long-noncoding RNAs and pseudogenes. The AMR RVAS identified 15 genes, including axonal transport genes (KIF1B, KIF7) and growth factor signaling genes (EGF, ERBIN, and AKAP17A). The AFR RVAS identified a single gene, DLG2, which encodes the postsynaptic protein PSD-93, which promotes the closure of the sensitive period of neuroplasticity for vision in early childhood.Genetic risk architectures for amblyopia differ across ancestries but fundamentally converge on neurodevelopmental signaling, cortical synapse assembly, and sensitive period plasticity rather than ocular structural dynamics.Copyright © 2026 American Academy of Ophthalmology, Inc. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The innate immune response to pathogens often involves metabolic reprogramming, such as disruption of the Krebs cycle, leading to the accumulation of various metabolites that can further influence innate cell responses during infection. Of these, the immunomodulatory metabolite itaconate has been shown to positively or negatively influence lung immune responses, depending on the pathogen. In the current study, we found that mice deficient in aconitate decarboxylase (Acod1-/- mice), the enzyme that produces itaconate from cis-aconitate, cleared the opportunistic mold Aspergillus fumigatus from the lung more effectively than wild-type (WT) control mice. Augmented fungal clearance in Acod1-/- mice correlated with increased type 17 responses, which themselves correlated with higher IL-1β, PGE2, and γδ T cell levels. Intriguingly, we show that alveolar macrophages and neutrophils from naïve Acod1-/- mice kill A. fumigatus more efficiently. Conversely, the addition of exogenous itaconate to alveolar macrophages and neutrophils from naïve WT mice reduced their antifungal capacity. Mechanistically, alveolar macrophages, but not neutrophils, from naïve Acod1-/- mice demonstrated enhanced ROS production when stimulated with A. fumigatus. We further show that mice with macrophage-specific, but not neutrophil-specific, Acod1 deficiency cleared A. fumigatus more effectively. Itaconate deficiency also protected against fungus-induced mortality during corticosteroid-mediated immunosuppression. Finally, itaconate reduced the antifungal activity of human monocyte-derived macrophages. Collectively, these data identify an immune regulatory role for itaconate during A. fumigatus fungal pneumonia and potentially identify a new therapeutic target for enhancing protection against A. fumigatus.IMPORTANCEFungal infections by invasive molds such as Aspergillus fumigatus are leading causes of morbidity and mortality in immunocompromised individuals, such as patients with hematologic malignancies, and recipients of hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HCT), solid organ transplant (SOT), and cellular therapies. A major shift in the increased incidence of these infections is a result of a rapidly expanding global immunocompromised population due to targeted immunotherapies and biologics for the treatment of cancer, combination therapies, cellular therapies, and bispecific and trispecific antibody therapies. The advancement in these immunomodulatory/immunosuppressive therapies is outpacing our understanding of mechanisms that lead to the development of infections such as invasive aspergillosis. Therefore, the continuing evolution of our understanding of protective and immunoregulatory responses would be expected to reveal new mechanisms that govern susceptibility to fungal pneumonia. To this end, in the current report, we show that the TCA cycle intermediate itaconate hinders lung clearance of A. fumigatus via regulating multiple immune mechanisms. Overall, our study uncovers a new mechanism of immune regulation during fungal pneumonia.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42498738
Bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) in preterm infants is frequently accompanied by neurodevelopmental impairment, yet the central neuropharmacological actions of dexamethasone (DEX), a commonly used therapy for severe or evolving BPD, remain incompletely understood. In particular, whether DEX exerts timing-dependent neuroprotection in the developing brain and the mechanisms underlying such effects are unclear.We investigated the neuroprotective effects of DEX in a neonatal rat double-hit model combining prenatal maternal lipopolysaccharide exposure with postnatal hyperoxia. A tapered DEX regimen was initiated on postnatal day (P)1, P3, or P8 to evaluate the therapeutic window. Lung pathology, survival, hippocampal injury, microglial reactivity, behavioral outcomes, resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI), targeted metabolomics, and microglia-neuron coculture experiments were used to characterize pharmacological efficacy and mechanism.Among the tested regimens, DEX initiated at P3 produced the most consistent protective effects, improving alveolar structure, survival, hippocampal pathology, and microglial reactivity. P3-initiated DEX also improved recognition memory, exploratory/anxiety-related behavior, spatial memory retention, and motor coordination, and was associated with partial restoration of hippocampal functional connectivity. At the molecular level, DEX partially restored hippocampal glutamate/GABA balance, reduced Synapsin I phosphorylation, and normalized VGLUT1/VGAT associated synaptic abnormalities. Mechanistically, microglia-derived IL-1β promoted neuronal ERK/Syn1 activation, whereas DEX interrupted this inflammatory signaling axis in a microglia-neuron coculture system. Targeted metabolomics and perturbation experiments further showed that DEX increased Acod1-dependent itaconate reprogramming under inflammatory priming, thereby suppressing microglial IL-1β and downstream neuronal P-Syn1/Syn1 signaling.These findings identify a developmentally sensitive therapeutic window for DEX neuroprotection in neonatal BPD-associated brain injury and suggest that microglial Acod1-itaconate-dependent regulation of IL-1β/ERK/Syn1 signaling contributes to its central protective effects. This study expands the pharmacological interpretation of DEX beyond pulmonary benefit and supports an immunometabolic framework for understanding corticosteroid actions in the developing brain.Copyright © 2026 Jia, Chen, Chen, Liu, Zhang, Yang, Shi and Wang.
EMILIN-1 is an extracellular matrix glycoprotein with tumor-suppressive functions. While its loss is implicated in cancer progression, its specific role in the gastric tumor microenvironment and its clinical relevance remain poorly defined.Using in vitro cellular systems and genetically modified mouse models we investigated the consequences of impaired EMILIN-1 function on gastric epithelial transformation, stromal remodeling, and fibroblast reprogramming. Histopathological analysis, gene expression profiling, and functional assays were employed to assess phenotypic changes in epithelial, fibroblastic, and endothelial compartments.We found that gastric cancer (GC) cells downregulate EMILIN-1 in stromal fibroblasts and lymphatic endothelial cells via paracrine signaling, leading to reduced EMILIN-1 deposition and disrupted lymphatic organization. Mechanistically, the interaction between EMILIN-1 and α4β1 integrin, which is absent in GC cells, modulates tumor cell proliferation; loss of this axis allows tumor cells to escape ECM-mediated growth control. Furthermore, EMILIN-1 downregulation reprograms fibroblasts into a pro-tumorigenic phenotype, which enhances GC cell migration and clonogenic potential. EMILIN-1 loss-of-function (E955A) mice showed increased susceptibility to pre-neoplastic lesions, a finding mirrored in human dysplastic tissues where EMILIN-1 was markedly reduced.Our findings establish EMILIN-1 as a master regulator of gastric tissue integrity. Its loss creates a tumor-permissive microenvironment by disrupting epithelial homeostasis, impairing lymphatic structure, and promoting fibroblast activation. The consistent reduction of EMILIN-1 in early human dysplasia highlights its potential as a novel stromal biomarker for early GC risk stratification. Moreover, restoring the EMILIN-1/integrin axis represents a promising therapeutic strategy to re-establish growth control and suppress tumor progression.© 2026. The Author(s).
D-dopachrome tautomerase (D-DT, or MIF-2) is a homolog of the macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF), which shares receptor usage and downstream signaling. Although MIF is known to mediate UV-induced inflammation and matrix remodeling, the role of D-DT in cutaneous photoaging remains unclear. Therefore, we investigated whether D-DT contributes to UVB-induced skin photoaging by modulating the expression of MMP-13. Using D-DT knockout (Ddt-/-) and wild-type (Ddt+/+) mice exposed to chronic UVB, we assessed collagen degradation and immune cell infiltration in the skin. We also used primary dermal fibroblasts from Ddt+/+ mice to examine the recombinant D-DT (rD-DT)-induced MMP-13 expression and the signaling pathways. UVB exposure markedly increased the D-DT expression in epidermal keratinocytes both in vivo and in vitro. In addition to attenuated skin inflammation, Ddt-/- mice exhibited reduced UVB-induced MMP-13 expression levels, preserved type I collagen levels, and diminished leukocyte and neutrophil infiltration, comparing with WT mice. rD-DT directly upregulated MMP-13 in fibroblasts, and this effect was suppressed by ERK and JNK inhibitors. Furthermore, rD-DT induced the phosphorylation of ERK and JNK in fibroblasts. In conclusion, UVB-induced skin photoaging is accelerated by the expression of MMP-13 in dermal fibroblasts following the epidermal expression of D-DT. These findings identified D-DT as a novel regulator of UVB-induced dermal remodeling and suggest its potential as a therapeutic target for photoaging.Copyright © 2026 American Society for Investigative Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
To explore the specific molecular mechanisms of CD19 CAR-Macrophage (CD19 CAR-M) in treating Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma (DLBCL).Differential expression and pathway enrichment analyses of GEO dataset GSE66770 were performed to construct a SYK/SHP2/TBK1/TFEB interaction network. CD19 CAR-M were generated by lentiviral transduction of THP-1-derived macrophage-like cells and co-cultured with U2932 cells. CCK-8, colony formation and Transwell assays were used to evaluate U2932 proliferation, invasion and migration; IL-6 and IFN-γ levels were measured by ELISA; ROS was detected by DHE staining. RT-qPCR quantified macrophage markers CD14 (M0), CD163 and CD206 (M2), and M1 marker IL-12. Western blot analyzed p-SYK, p-SHP2, NOX2, p-TBK1, TFEB, LC3B and phosphorylated/total protein ratios; immunofluorescence assessed endosomal markers EEA1 and LAMP1. Phagocytosis was evaluated by fluorescent microsphere assay; U2932 apoptosis was determined by flow cytometry after FcγR blockade. Flow cytometry was additionally performed to validate the maintenance of macrophage phenotype, CAR transduction efficiency, and the purity of cell separation after co-culture. NOD-scid mouse DLBCL xenografts were subjected to in vivo imaging for therapeutic validation.Bioinformatic analysis identified TBK1 as a key immune-evasion node positively correlated with SYK and negatively with SHP2. Flow cytometric analysis confirmed successful construction of the CD19 CAR-M cell model, with stable macrophage phenotype and specific CAR expression. CD19 CAR-M significantly inhibited U2932 proliferation, invasion and migration, elevated IL-6, IFN-γ and ROS, and induced M1 polarization. Phosphorylation of SYK/SHP2/TBK1/TFEB axis proteins and LC3B expression were markedly increased; EEA1/LAMP1 fluorescence intensities were enhanced. Fluovrescent microsphere uptake was elevated and reversible by FcγR inhibitor elsubrutinib, accompanied by increased U2932 late-apoptosis rate. In vivo experiments confirmed that CD19 CAR-M reduced tumor burden via activation of the SYK/SHP2/TBK1/TFEB axis.CD19 CAR-M kills DLBCL through macrophage phagocytosis mediated by the SYK/SHP2/TBK1/TFEB axis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Obesity is a disease associated with an increased risk of various medical complications, including cardiovascular problems, diabetes, and infectious diseases. The higher incidence of infections in individuals with obesity is likely due to impaired immune functions. Neutrophils deploy microbicidal functions. However, it is unclear whether neutrophils in individuals with obesity function effectively against infections. To evaluate whether neutrophils in obesity have dysfunctional antimicrobial functions, neutrophils from individuals with normal weight and from individuals with obesity were isolated, and their phenotype and microbicidal functions were assessed. Neutrophils from individuals with obesity showed higher expression of CD66b, CD11b, CD15, CD14, CD18, and CD182 on their membranes. The higher expression of these molecules correlated with higher BMI, suggesting that obesity is associated with neutrophil activation. Accordingly, the PMA-induced respiratory burst in neutrophils from individuals with obesity was greater than in those from individuals without obesity. But, phagocytosis and PMA-induced NETosis were comparable between neutrophils from individuals with or without obesity, implying that neutrophil functions are not impaired by obesity. However, NET formation of neutrophils from individuals with obesity was selectively reduced in response to Staphylococcus aureus. Nevertheless, the actual killing of these bacteria was similar between neutrophils from individuals with or without obesity. In contrast, neutrophils from individuals with obesity exhibited impaired killing of Pseudomonas aeruginosa and of Klebsiella quasipneumoniae. Together, these findings suggest that obesity induces neutrophil activation but disrupts pathogen-specific antimicrobial mechanisms of neutrophils. This deficiency in pathogen clearance could explain the increased susceptibility to infections observed in individuals with obesity.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Society for Leukocyte Biology.
To investigate the mechanisms underlying the bone-sparing effects of the anti-TNF antibody adalimumab in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) by examining synovial tissue and its direct effect on osteoblasts and osteoclasts.Paired synovial biopsies from 12 patients with RA were obtained before and 8 weeks after initiation of adalimumab. Immune-cell infiltrates (CD163+ macrophages, CD3+ lymphocytes) and expression of osteoprotegerin (OPG), receptor activator of nuclear factor κB (RANK), and its ligand (RANKL) were assessed by immunohistochemistry. In vitro, the effect of adalimumab on RANKL and OPG expression in SaOS-2 cells (± TNF-α) was evaluated by western blotting. Its effect on osteoclastogenesis and bone resorption were examined using CD14+ monocyte-derived macrophages cultured with RANKL and M-CSF.Adalimumab treatment led to a marked clinical improvement, with median DAS28 decreasing from 5.4 to 3.1. Semiquantitative analysis of synovial biopsies revealed a significant decrease in CD163+ macrophages, while CD3+ T-cells remained unchanged. The RANKL/OPG ratio decreased significantly, which was accompanied by increased OPG expression in synovial tissue. In vitro, adalimumab significantly decreased RANKL expression and the RANKL: OPG ratio in TNF-α primed SaOS-2 cells, while also modulating pro-osteoclastogenic cytokines. In osteoclast assays, adalimumab inhibited macrophage-derived osteoclast differentiation and suppressed bone resorption under both low and high RANKL conditions.Adalimumab decreased synovial macrophage infiltration while it modulates pro-osteoclastogenic cytokines and inhibits osteoclastogenesis. These combined effects explain how TNF-α blockade ameliorates joint inflammation and prevents structural damage.Copyright © 2026 Krishnamurthy, Revu, Neregård, Hensvold, af Klint, Makrygiannakis, Catrina and Parodis.
Integrated single-cell RNA sequencing, spectral flow cytometry, immune-receptor repertoire profiling, and plasma proteomics revealed coordinated peripheral immune remodeling during acute scrub typhus. Patients exhibited expansion of cytotoxic, clonally amplified CD8+ T cells with exhaustion-associated features, depletion and apoptosis of CD4+ T cells, B-cell contraction with enhanced plasmablast/plasma-cell differentiation, and inflammatory myeloid remodeling. CD14+CXCR6+ and CD14+GNLY+ myeloid-cell frequencies positively correlated with bacterial burden, defining prominent immune features of acute Orientia tsutsugamushi infection.© 2026 The Author(s). iMeta published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of iMeta Science.
To explore the association between macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) and sepsis-induced myocardial injury (SIMI), as well as its predictive value for the prognosis of septic patients.A prospective observational study was conducted. Sixty-three adult patients with confirmed sepsis admitted to the department of critical care medicine of The First Affiliated Hospital of Xinjiang Medical University from July 2024 to June 2025 were consecutively enrolled. According to the cardiac troponin I (cTnI) level on the first day of admission, the patients were divided into SIMI group (cTnI≥0.04 μg/L) and sepsis without myocardial injury group (cTnI<0.04 μg/L). The demographic data, admission-related scores, and laboratory indicators of septic patients, measured indicators such as MIF and interleukin-18 (IL-18) within 24 hours of patients' admission to the intensive care unit (ICU) were collected, and the indicators such as Acute Physiology And Chronic Health Evaluation II (APACHE II) score, Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) score, oxygenation index, and echocardiographic indicators within 24 hours of patients' admission to the ICU were recorded. The clinical data of the two groups of patients were compared. The correlation between indicators was analyzed by using Pearson or Spearman rank correlation method. A receiver operator characteristic curve (ROC curve) was drawn to evaluate the predictive performance of MIF, IL-18, and their combination for 28-day death in septic patients. Multivariate Logistic regression analysis was used to screen independent risk factors for 28-day death in septic patients, and a nomogram model was constructed. The discrimination, calibration, and clinical utility of the model were evaluated using ROC curve, calibration curve, and decision curve analysis (DCA).A total of 63 septic patients were finally enrolled in the study, including 23 patients in the SIMI group and 40 patients in the non-SIMI group. The APACHE II score, alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP), cTnI, MB isoenzyme of creatine kinase (CK-MB), IL-18, and MIF were all higher in the SIMI group compared to the non-SIMI group (all P<0.05). There were no statistically significant differences in demographic data, other laboratory indicators, and echocardiographic parameters between the two groups. Correlation analysis revealed a positive correlation between MIF and downstream inflammatory factor IL-18 and APACHE II score in septic patients (r values were 0.523 and 0.556, respectively, both P<0.05). Among echocardiographic indicators, MIF was negatively correlated with left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF; r=-0.265, P<0.05), while there was no significant correlation between MIF and left ventricular posterior wall thickness at end-diastole or left atrial diameter at end-diastole (both P>0.05). ROC curve analysis revealed that both MIF and IL-18 possessed predictive value for 28-day death in septic patients [the area under the ROC curve (AUC) and 95% confidence interval (95%CI) were 0.745 (0.563-0.933) and 0.751 (0.614-0.892), respectively], and the combined prediction of the two had an AUC of 0.784 (95%CI was 0.629-0.940), with a sensitivity of 78.6% and a specificity of 79.6%. Multivariate Logistic regression analysis revealed that an elevated SOFA score [odds ratio (OR)=1.381, 95%CI was 1.067-1.787, P=0.014], increased IL-18 (OR=1.000, 95%CI was 1.000-1.001, P=0.023), elevated MIF (OR=1.000, 95%CI was 1.000-1.000, P=0.036), and decreased oxygenation index (OR=0.989, 95%CI was 0.978-1.000, P=0.046) were independent risk factors for 28-day death in patients with sepsis. Based on these variables, a nomogram model for predicting 28-day death in septic patients was constructed. ROC curve analysis indicated that the AUC of the nomogram model for predicting 28-day death in septic patients was 0.894 (95%CI was 0.766-1.000). Further analysis revealed that the model's C-index reached 0.894, and both the calibration curve and DCA curve suggested good discriminatory power, calibration capability and clinical utility of the model.MIF can serve as a sensitive biomarker for early identification of SIMI, and the combined detection of MIF and IL-18 can enhance the predictive efficacy of prognosis for sepsis patients.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42563454 is a review article
Mesenchymal stromal cell (MSC) injection has afforded heterogeneous outcomes in knee osteoarthritis (KOA). Herein, a framework that dually correlates KOA patient responsiveness with baseline autologous bone marrow-derived MSC(M) donor batch attributes and baseline clinical and biomarker features is provided. Using clinical trial data (NCT02351011), we demonstrated that MSC(M) with increased immunomodulatory potency are more efficacious. Multivariable MSC(M) genes correlated strongly with responder status and 12- and 24-month improvements in Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Scores. Responder MSC(M) donor batches had unique microRNA expression and ability to polarize CD14+ monocytes in vitro. KOA responders had lower baseline physical activity and trended toward more severe baseline KOA. Baseline local but not systemic biomarkers showed trending correlations with patient responsiveness. 42% of KOA patients were responders at 24 months, emphasizing durability of single MSC(M) injections. Together, our analytical methodology defines critical quality attributes of potent MSC(M) donor batches and identifies putative KOA patient theratypes to MSC treatments.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Acral melanoma (AM) exhibits significant intratumoral heterogeneity, but its tumor microenvironment (TME) and immune regulation remain unclear. This study aims to dissect TME heterogeneity and establish a prognostic model based on key cell subpopulations.We collected AM single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and bulk RNA-seq data from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) and the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). Unsupervised clustering, CellChat, and Scissor analysis were performed to characterize cellular heterogeneity, cell-cell communication, and prognosis-related cell subpopulations. Kaplan-Meier analysis was used to assess the prognostic value of key genes, which were further validated by multiplex immunohistochemistry (mIHC).In AM, Mel_C2, C7, and C9 with high SEMA6A and KIT expression were strongly linked to poor prognosis. We further identified a senescent fibroblast subpopulation (sCAF_CDKN2A) characterized by high fibroblast senescence signature (FSS) scores. Integrating Scissor analysis of fibroblast subtypes with bulk prognostic data, we identified COL3A1, VCAN, and KIT as prognosis-associated genes upregulated in poor-outcome-related fibroblast subsets. Cell-cell communication analysis revealed that sCAF_CDKN2A engages in an immunosuppressive network, interacting with regulatory T cells (Tregs) via MIF signaling and receiving signals from exhausted CD8+ T cells through PPIA-BSG interactions. Using transcription factor expression patterns from these fibroblast subtypes, we constructed a prognostic model that effectively stratified patients into distinct risk groups with significant differences in overall survival (OS). mIHC confirmed significantly higher protein levels of SEMA6A and COL3A1 in tumor tissues compared to matched normal tissues.We established a novel prognostic model for AM and identified sCAF_CDKN2A as an immunosuppressive senescent fibroblast subpopulation driving poor prognosis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI) is a major determinant of initial graft function after liver transplantation (LT), directly influencing the incidence of early dysfunction and short-term clinical outcomes. Macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF), a pleiotropic cytokine involved in inflammatory pathways and mechanisms of cellular adaptation to oxidative stress, may play a modulatory role in IRI, although its immediate tissue behaviour in grafts remains poorly characterised.We retrospectively evaluated adult LT recipients who underwent post-reperfusion biopsies suitable for histological and immunohistochemical analysis. Immunohistochemical expression of MIF was quantified using the IHC Profiler plugin (ImageJ), whereas IRI was graded according to validated histopathological criteria.Among 153 biopsies analysed, 103 met the eligibility criteria, with most cases showing absent or mild IRI (70.9%). Hepatocellular expression of MIF was predominantly weak or moderate. Stronger immunohistochemical staining for MIF was associated with lower IRI severity (p<0.05). MIF expression correlated with pre-transplant laboratory parameters, without association with steatosis or early outcomes, including retransplantation or death within 15 days.The findings suggest that greater immunohistochemical expression of MIF at reperfusion is associated with lower IRI intensity, indicating a possible adaptive role for this cytokine during this critical phase. MIF emerges as a potential tissue marker complementary to traditional histopathological scoring, with relevance for graft assessment and use in contemporary liver perfusion strategies.
Migraine is one of the most disabling neurological diseases globally; however, a significant proportion of patients do not respond to current treatments, or treatment efficacy diminishes over time, highlighting the need to identify additional molecular candidates for further investigation. Recent studies have increasingly focused on the role of neuro-immune interactions in migraine. This study aimed to identify peripheral immune-related candidate genes associated with NAD+ metabolism-related transcriptional features in migraine through integrated bulk and single-cell transcriptomic analyses. Using the PRJEB40032 dataset, samples were stratified according to ssGSEA-derived NAD+ metabolism scores, followed by differential expression analysis, weighted gene co-expression network analysis and protein-protein interaction network construction. LASSO regression, SVM-RFE, and XGBoost were subsequently applied to prioritize candidate genes. CXCL8, CXCR4, CXCL1, and TNFAIP3 showed cross-algorithm consistency and were subsequently incorporated into an exploratory nomogram, which exhibited apparent discriminatory performance within the PRJEB40032 discovery cohort. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that these genes were associated with immune and inflammatory pathways, including IL-17, NF-κB, TNF, and Toll-like receptor signaling. Immune cell-composition analysis indicated significantly increased estimated abundances or activity scores for NK cells, mast cells, eosinophils, and neutrophils in migraine samples, with positive associations between the prioritized candidate genes and pro-inflammatory immune features. Single-cell RNA sequencing further showed that CXCL1 and CXCL8 were predominantly expressed in monocytes, while TNFAIP3 and CXCR4 were widely expressed across various immune cell types. qPCR assessment in a migraine mouse model showed group-dependent expression alterations in the functionally related murine CXCL1/CXCR2 axis. Overall, this study prioritized peripheral immune-related candidate genes associated with migraine and NAD⁺ metabolism-related transcriptional features, providing exploratory evidence for a potential link among systemic immune alterations, NAD⁺ metabolism-related processes, and migraine.© 2026. The Author(s).
Chronic fatty acid (FA) elevation drives metabolic dysfunction-associated liver disease (MASLD). Hepatocytes buffer transient lipid overload via coordinated adaptive mechanisms, but the temporal limits of this capacity remain undefined.We characterized early, intermediate, and prolonged hepatocellular responses to sustained lipid excess.HuH7 hepatocytes were exposed to an equimolar palmitic/oleic acid (PA/OA) mixture for 1, 14, or 28 days. Viability, lipid accumulation, stress-response pathways, insulin signaling, metabolic regulators, mitochondrial markers, [14C]-PA uptake, and exo-metabolomic profiles were assessed (n≥3/group). Data (mean ± SEM) were analyzed by two-way ANOVA with Bonferroni post hoc testing; cumulative cell death by linear regression. P<0.05 was significant.FA treatment increased lipid droplet accumulation 1.4- to 1.7-fold vs. time-matched BSA controls at all time points (p<0.001) and increased the rate of cumulative cell death ∼4.3-fold (1.556±0.083 vs. 0.365±0.054%/day, p<0.001). Exo-metabolomic PCA explained 88.5% of variance (Q2=0.758), with peak lactate release at Day 14 and progressively rising acetate through Day 28. [14C]-PA accumulation at Day 28 was ∼30% lower than Day 1 (∼800 vs. ∼500 cpm/mg protein), with a declining rather than plateauing profile between 20-60 s. By Day 28, FA-treated cells showed lower FASN (p<0.001), CD36 (p<0.05), FABP1 (p<0.001), SIRT1 (p<0.005), and CLOCK (p<0.01) protein levels, and higher CPT1A (p<0.001), pAMPK/AMPK (p<0.01), p53 (p<0.001), Bax/Bcl2 (p<0.005), and respiratory complex I-V abundance (p<0.05-p<0.001) vs. controls.Sustained PA/OA exposure induces a staged hepatocellular response, early lipid-buffering adaptation, intermediate metabolic compensation, and late decompensation, indicating that chronic lipotoxicity reflects progressive loss of regulatory coordination despite persistent metabolic adaptation.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565567 is a review article
Short-chain chlorinated paraffins (SCCPs), ubiquitous persistent organic pollutants, have been increasingly implicated in metabolic disorders; however, their developmental effects on hepatic lipid metabolism in offspring remain poorly understood. This study aimed to investigate whether gestational SCCPs exposure induces hepatic lipid accumulation in adult offspring and elucidate the underlying mechanisms. Pregnant C57BL/6J mice were orally administered SCCPs (0, 1, 10, or 100 mg/kg) from gestational day 0 (GD0) to GD18. At 12 weeks of age, male offspring exposed to the medium dose of SCCPs developed pronounced hepatic steatosis, as evidenced by increased hepatic and serum triglyceride levels and excessive lipid droplet accumulation, whereas female offspring exhibited no significant alterations, indicating a sex-specific and non-monotonic dose-response pattern. Mechanistically, gestational SCCPs exposure markedly upregulated key regulators involved in fatty acid uptake and triglyceride synthesis, including CD36, GPAT4, and DGAT2. In vitro, serum from medium-dose SCCPs-exposed adult male offspring induced lipid accumulation in AML12 hepatocytes, which was significantly attenuated by pharmacological inhibition of CD36. Furthermore, gestational SCCPs exposure was associated with increased PPAR-γ/CD36 pathway in vivo and in vitro, whereas pharmacological inhibition of PPAR-γ suppressed CD36 expression and alleviated lipid accumulation in hepatocytes. Collectively, these findings suggest that gestational SCCPs exposure promotes male-specific hepatic steatosis in adult offspring potentially through PPAR-γ-mediated enhancement of fatty acid uptake and triglyceride synthesis, providing new evidence that early-life SCCPs exposure can developmentally program long-term hepatic metabolic dysfunction.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) is a major cause of heart failure and sudden cardiac death and has traditionally been regarded as a predominantly monogenic disorder. However, advances in next-generation sequencing have revealed a more complex genetic architecture with increasing recognition of oligogenic and polygenic contributions; particularly in patients presenting with extracardiac manifestations. In such cases, careful phenotypic characterization and integrative interpretation of genetic findings are essential for accurate diagnosis and management.We report the case of a 46-year-old man who presented with progressive exertional dyspnoea (the New York Heart Association class II-III). His medical history was notable for childhood-onset epilepsy, visual impairment, musculoskeletal abnormalities, and infertility. Transthoracic echocardiography demonstrated severe left ventricular dilatation with reduced ejection fraction (20%). Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging confirmed severe biventricular systolic dysfunction and revealed mid-to-basal myocardial fibrosis on late gadolinium enhancement imaging. Given the prominent multisystem involvement and exclusion of secondary causes, a syndromic cardiomyopathy was suspected. Comprehensive genetic testing identified likely pathogenic frameshift variants in the CD36 and TNXB genes, while additional variants of uncertain significance were detected in MT-TK and STXBP1. These findings suggested a potential oligogenic contribution involving pathways related to myocardial energy metabolism and extracellular matrix integrity. Guideline-directed medical therapy for heart failure with reduced ejection fraction was initiated, and the patient was enrolled in multidisciplinary follow-up with genetic counselling for first-degree relatives.This case highlights the limitations of a strictly monogenic framework in DCM and underscores the importance of considering oligogenic mechanisms in patients with syndromic features. Integrative evaluation combining detailed phenotyping, advanced cardiac imaging, and genetic analysis may provide valuable insights into complex cardiomyopathy phenotypes and support personalized clinical management.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42559155 is a review article
Atherosclerosis is characterized by the buildup of fatty plaques that thicken and stiffen arterial walls. Macrophages (Mφs) significantly contribute to this process through their scavenger receptor CD36. PIM1 is a serine/threonine kinase known to modulate immune responses and cell metabolism. However, its role in Mφ lipid handling and atherogenesis is not well defined. This study examines the role of PIM1 in regulating CD36 expression and function in Mφs during foam cell formation and atherosclerosis progression.We performed in vitro studies by treating murine peritoneal Mφs from Pim1-/- and wild-type mice with oxLDL (oxidized low-density lipoprotein). We measured CD36, PIM1, and plaque-associated proteins and mRNA levels, oxLDL binding and uptake rates, and foam cell formation. For in vivo studies, we fed myeloid-specific Pim1-deficient (Apoe-/-Lyz2Cre/+Pim1fl/fl) and their littermate control (Apoe-/-Pim1fl/fl) mice a high-fat diet for 12 weeks. We then evaluated plaque formation in their aortic sinuses and arches.Deletion of Pim1 in Mφs reduced CD36 protein expression by up to 96.7% compared with wild-type controls. This led to a 49.6% decrease in foam cell formation and a 25.5% reduction in cellular cholesterol after oxLDL treatment. Pharmacological inhibition of PIM kinase activity in wild-type Mφs also impaired oxLDL handling, with a 64.5% reduction in binding and a 57.9% reduction in uptake. Bulk RNA-sequencing revealed that Pim1 deficiency downregulated PPARγ (peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma) signaling. Treatment with a PPARγ agonist restored CD36 levels in the Pim1 knockdown Mφs, suggesting that PIM1 regulates CD36 through PPARγ. Moreover, Pim1 myeloid-specific deficiency caused a 69.4% reduction in atherosclerotic plaque formation.PIM1 acts as a key upstream regulator of CD36 by enhancing PPARγ activity in Mφs. The PIM1-CD36 axis promotes oxLDL binding, uptake, and foam cell formation. Targeting the PIM1/PPARγ/CD36 pathway could offer new ways to modulate Mφ lipid metabolism and reduce atherosclerotic plaque progression.
Hepatomegaly in hemolytic disorders, including in thalassemia, is a common complication, primarily due to hemosiderosis and activation of extramedullary hematopoiesis. Globin chain imbalance leads to chronic hemolysis and ineffective erythropoiesis, which are associated with suppression of hepcidin expression. Reduced hepcidin levels may increase iron absorption and accumulation, contributing to oxidative stress and liver tissue damage. Iron chelation therapy, such as deferipron, is effective but has side effects, so safer alternatives are needed. Sappanwood (Caesalpinia sappan L.) contains the active compound brazilin, which chelates iron and exhibits antioxidant activity, potentially reducing oxidative stress, improving iron metabolism disorders, and reducing hepatomegaly. This study aims to evaluate the potential of sappanwood extract as a natural iron chelator and antioxidant.This experimental study used male Wistar rats (180-250 g) with a model of iron overload hemolytic anemia, which were divided into normal controls, negative controls (phenylhydrazine 40 mg/kg BW), positive controls (deferiprone 75 mg/kg BW), and sappanwood extract (SWE) treatment (50, 100, 200 mg/kg BW) for 14 days. The parameters measured included iron metabolism, hepatomegaly, liver function, hepcidin-related gene expression, and oxidative stress. Data were analyzed using ANOVA, with p < 0.05 considered significant.The results showed that administration of 100 mg/kg BW SWE provided optimal improvement (p < 0.05), including reductions in hepatomegaly, SGPT, hemosiderin, lipid peroxidation, bilirubin, extramedullary hematopoiesis, and modulation in iron-related gene expression, including Hamp, Bmp6, Epo, and Ftl.These findings confirm the potential of sappanwood as a potential therapeutic candidate for the management of iron overload in thalassemia.© 2026 The Author(s). Animal Models and Experimental Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of The Chinese Association for Laboratory Animal Sciences.
Excessive lipid accumulation impairs digestion and gastrointestinal function. Transmembrane protein 135 (TMEM135) is involved in lipid metabolism of various tissues. Here, TMEM135 deficiency increased intestinal lipid absorption through ELOVL6-dependent oleoylethanolamide production and subsequent activation of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARα), which upregulated CD36 at the plasma membrane in the intestine of mice fed a high-fat diet or lard oil. Despite this enhanced lipid uptake, long-term lipid accumulation was suppressed by elevated peroxisomal and mitochondrial β-oxidation through increased fatty acid oxidation and oxidative phosphorylation activities without chylomicron secretion in TMEM135-depleted intestine. Inhibition of PPARα or ELOVL6 attenuated these effects. Furthermore, consistent results were observed in both TMEM135 KO and intestine-specific TMEM135iKO mice, confirming tissue-specific rather than systemic effects. Overall, these results provide insight into the role of TMEM135 as a regulatory node connecting intestinal lipid absorption and systemic energy expenditure, contributing to the coordination between lipid storage and oxidation during metabolic adaptation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Lung cancer ranks among the most prevalent and deadly malignant tumors globally, posing a significant threat to human health. Perfluorononanoic acid (PFNA), as an emerging persistent organic pollutant, has attracted widespread attention due to its extensive presence in the environment. However, the effect of PFNA on lung cancer development and its molecular mechanism have not been reported. This study utilized A549 and H1299 non-small cell lung cancer cell lines to examine the toxicological impact of environmentally relevant PFNA concentrations. The results showed that PFNA exposure significantly enhanced the proliferative capacity of A549 and H1299 cells. Further studies revealed that PFNA promoted fatty acid uptake in lung cancer cells, and detection of fatty acid transporter expression showed that CD36 expression was significantly upregulated. PFNA facilitated the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in lung cancer cells. Mechanistic studies revealed that PFNA promotes fatty acid uptake by upregulating CD36 expression, thereby activating the mTOR signaling pathway. PFNA notably enhanced lung cancer cells' resistance to cisplatin-induced ferroptosis. In-depth mechanistic studies found that PFNA inhibits cisplatin-induced ferroptosis by promoting GPX4 expression. In vivo animal models confirmed that PFNA exposure promotes lung cancer progression. This study identifies a novel mechanism where environmentally relevant PFNA concentrations affect lung cancer cell proliferation by modulating fatty acid metabolism, offering insights for assessing PFNA-related lung cancer risk and potential targets for prevention and treatment. This study investigates the role of PFNA in lung cancer, focusing on its interaction with CD36 and the mTOR signaling pathway.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
There is a growing number of research suggesting that there is an association between gut microbiota and central nervous system (CNS) tumor. However, the causal relationships and the mediation effects of inflammatory proteins in the associations are unclear. We extracted genetic variants associated with gut microbiota, inflammatory proteins, and 4 subtypes of CNS tumors from published genome-wide association studies and performed a Mendelian randomization analysis to identify potential causal effects. The inverse variance weighted method was used as the main method. Mediation analysis and single-cell RNA-seq analysis were performed to explore the mediation effects and the expression in cells. This study identified 73 gut microbial taxa and 11 inflammatory proteins that were significantly associated with CNS tumors. The inflammatory proteins may act as intermediate mediators in the potential causal association between gut microbiota and 4 CNS tumor subtypes. Mediation analysis suggested that CX3CL1 may partially mediate the relationship between gut microbiota and Glioblastoma, while Eotaxin, CSF-1, IL-15RA and the other 5 cytokines may serve as subtype-specific potential mediators for the remaining 3 tumor types. Our research supports a hypothesized "gut-immune-brain" axis that may mediate the effects of gut microbiota on different CNS tumor subtypes, with distinct immune proteins implicated for each. These findings strongly suggest potential targets for microbiome therapy and immune therapy, though the underlying mechanistic links require experimental validation.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Zhigancao Decoction (ZGCT), also known as Fumai Decoction, is a classical traditional Chinese medicine formula recorded in Shanghan Lun and has long been used for the treatment of "palpitations" and "irregular pulse," corresponding to arrhythmias in modern medicine. Although ZGCT has shown beneficial effects against cardiac arrhythmias, its absorbed bioactive constituents and the underlying mechanisms involved in ischemic heart failure (IHF)-related ventricular arrhythmias (VAs) remain unclear.This study aimed to characterize the chemical profile of ZGCT and identify its circulating and cardiac constituents using ultra-performance liquid chromatography-quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry (UPLC-Q-TOF-MS), to identify key pathways through transcriptomic analysis, and evaluate the effects of ZGCT on IHF-related VAs in rats while exploring the potential involvement of myocardial fibrosis and TGF-β/Smad signaling.UPLC-Q-TOF-MS was employed to characterize the chemical constituents of ZGCT extract and to identify its absorbed components in rat serum and myocardial tissue after administration, thereby defining its in vivo bioactive basis. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq)-based transcriptomic profiling was then performed on myocardial tissues from the control, model, and ZGCT-treated groups to identify differentially expressed genes, followed by Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses to screen candidate signaling pathways underlying ZGCT activity. In addition, a rat model of IHF was established by permanent ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery. Rats were randomly assigned to the control, model, low-, medium-, and high-dose ZGCT, metoprolol, SB-431542(a selective TGF-β receptor type I inhibitor), and SB-431542 plus ZGCT groups. Cardiac function was evaluated by echocardiography; ventricular arrhythmia susceptibility, conduction velocity, and electrical conduction dispersion were assessed by burst pacing and multichannel electrical mapping; infarct size and myocardial fibrosis were determined by 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride (TTC), hematoxylin and eosin (H&E), and Masson's trichrome staining; and the expression of TGF-β1, phosphorylated Smad3 (p-Smad3), Smad7, and matrix metalloproteinase 2 (MMP2) was measured by Western blotting and RT-qPCR.UPLC-Q-TOF-MS identified 113 constituents in the ZGCT extract in vitro, of which 80 were detected in serum and 53 were distributed in myocardial tissue after administration. Transcriptomic analysis revealed that ZGCT predominantly regulated the extracellular matrix (ECM)-receptor interaction and TGF-β signaling pathways, with the TGF-β pathway emerging as a putative key target. In IHF rats, ZGCT significantly improved cardiac function and reduced both the incidence and duration of ventricular arrhythmias. Multichannel electrical mapping further demonstrated that ZGCT reversed IHF-induced slowing of conduction velocity and increased conduction dispersion. Mechanistically, ZGCT downregulated the expression of TGF-β1, p-Smad3, and MMP2, while upregulating Smad7. SB-431542 elicited anti-fibrotic and pathway-related molecular changes comparable to those of ZGCT, further supporting a role for TGF-β/Smad signaling in the anti-fibrotic effects of ZGCT.ZGCT reduced ventricular arrhythmia susceptibility and improved conduction abnormalities in IHF rats in association with attenuation of myocardial fibrosis and modulation of transforming growth factor-β/Smad-related signaling. However, these findings were obtained from a single batch of ZGCT, and further multi-batch validation is required to confirm its chemical consistency and pharmacological reproducibility.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Kidney fibrosis is the pathologic hallmark of chronic kidney disease (CKD) and is driven by fibroblast-to-myofibroblast transformation (FMT), excessive extracellular matrix accumulation, and persistent activation of transforming growth factor-β (TGFβ) signaling. Although TGFβ is a central mediator of fibrosis, its pleiotropic physiological functions have limited the development of direct anti-fibrotic therapies, highlighting the need to identify context-specific regulators of this pathway. Matrix Gla Protein (MGP) is a vitamin K-dependent extracellular protein best known for inhibiting vascular calcification; however, its role in kidney fibrosis remains unknown. Here, we demonstrate that MGP expression is markedly upregulated in fibroblasts from fibrotic kidneys in mouse models of chronic kidney injury and in human CKD samples. Using inducible global and fibroblast-specific Mgp knockout mice, we show that Mgp deficiency attenuates renal fibrosis, suppresses fibroblast activation, and preserves kidney function following folic acid nephropathy and unilateral ureteral obstruction. Mechanistically, MGP promotes FMT and amplifies TGFβ receptor/Smad3 signaling, whereas genetic or molecular inhibition of MGP blunts TGFβ-driven fibroblast activation both in vivo and in vitro. We further identify phosphorylation and γ-carboxylation as essential post-translational modifications required for the profibrotic activity of MGP. In addition, MGP interacts with bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2), reduces BMP-2 protein abundance, and counteracts BMP-2-mediated suppression of TGFβ signaling, thereby enhancing profibrotic responses. Collectively, these findings identify MGP as a previously unrecognized regulator of TGFβ-dependent fibroblast activation and kidney fibrosis, supporting MGP as a potential fibroblast-associated target for future strategies aimed at limiting CKD progression.© 2026. The Author(s).
To optimize the extraction-purification process of Dendrobium officinale polysaccharides (DOPs) and characterize the fine structures of two homogeneous fractions (DOP-1, DOP-2), as well as to evaluate their anti-photoaging activity on HFF cells.An integrated process including petroleum ether defatting, cellulase hydrolysis, water extraction-ethanol precipitation, trypsin-Sevag deproteinization, activated carbon decolorization, and dialysis was used. DOP-1 and DOP-2 were separated by DEAE-52 and Sephadex G-100 chromatography. Their structures were analyzed by FT-IR, methylation-GC/MS, NMR, and SEM. Anti-photoaging effects were assessed via CCK-8, SA-β-Gal staining, and qPCR of TGF-β/Smad pathway genes.The optimized process increased crude polysaccharide yield from 30.34% to 35.03% and polysaccharide content from 31.23% to 49.34%. DOP-1 (Mn 989 Da, PDI 1.15) was a linear oligosaccharide composed of →4)-β-D-Manp (72.32%) and →4)-β-D-Glcp (23.78%) in an alternating pattern. DOP-2 (Mn 2970 Da, PDI 1.67) was a branched polysaccharide with a backbone of →6)-α-D-Glcp (58.06%) and branches at →2,6)-Manp and →4,6)-Glcp. Both DOP-1 and DOP-2 (62.5 μg/mL) protected HFF cells from UVA-induced photoaging, upregulated TGF-β1, Smad3, Smad4, and Collagen I, and downregulated Smad7 and MMP-1, with DOP-2 showing dose-dependent effects.The optimized process enables efficient preparation of DOPs. DOP-1 and DOP-2 possess distinct structural features and exert anti-photoaging effects via regulation of the TGF-β/Smad signaling pathway.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Brain metastases (BrM) are a frequent and life-threatening complication of solid tumours, with lung cancer representing their most common source. While cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) are well-established contributors to tumour progression in many extracranial malignancies, their presence and function within the brain tumour microenvironment, where fibroblasts have long been considered scarce or absent, remain poorly understood. Here, we isolated and characterised fibroblast-like cells from 13 human BrMs of diverse origins. These BrM-associated CAFs (BrM-CAFs) expressed canonical CAF markers and showed reduced proliferation and increased senescence compared to normal fibroblasts. Their transcriptome was enriched for extracellular matrix (ECM)-related genes, including multiple collagens, fibronectin, and matrix-remodelling enzymes. In vitro, BrM-CAFs produced a fibrillar ECM, and in BrM tissues, their abundance was associated with collagen I and fibronectin deposition. Transcriptomic, proteomic, and secretome analyses further revealed that BrM-CAFs produce multiple cytokines, chemokines, and growth factors that promote cell motility. BrM-CAF conditioned medium promoted both monocyte migration and the migration of cancer cells, including established cell lines and patient-derived lung cancer BrM cells; monocyte migration was partially reduced by inhibition of CCL2/CCR2 signalling, whereas blocking CXCL12, CXCL16, or CX3CL1 attenuated BrM-CAF-induced cancer cell migration. Beyond these effects on migration, exposure to BrM-CAFs increased cancer cell invasion in transwell and heterotypic 3D spheroid assays. In contrast, their effects on cancer cell proliferation were limited and did not indicate a growth-promoting role. Exposure to BrM-CAFs was also associated with increased expression of interferon-stimulated genes in cancer cells. Together, our findings support a role for BrM-CAFs in shaping the brain metastatic microenvironment through ECM remodelling and the secretion of pro-migratory mediators, promoting monocyte and cancer cell migration and enhancing cancer cell invasion. These data identify BrM-CAFs as active stromal participants in BrM biology and support further investigation of their biological, diagnostic, and therapeutic relevance.© 2026 The Author(s). Brain Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of International Society of Neuropathology.
Endometriosis (EMS) is characterised by a disrupted peritoneal immune microenvironment where M2 macrophage polarization and impaired phagocytosis promote lesion survival. Single-cell RNA-seq (ScRNAseq) of the peritoneal macrophages from EMS patient revealed elevated Triggering Receptor Expressed on Myeloid cells 2 (TREM2) and signal regulatory protein α (SIRPα). The expression of TREM2 and SIRPa is positively correlated, and each are positively correlated with estrogen response. Mouse EMS model was established by intraperitoneal injection of estrogen primed mouse endometrial fragments into recipient female mice. In vitro estrogen treatment of RAW 264.7 cells indicated an increasing TREM2/SIRPα expression and enhancing phagocytosis of lesion cells derived from WT EMS ectopic lesions. Peritoneal macrophage from mice with EMS were analyzed using flow cytometry for the expression of TREM2 and SIRPα. The assessment of F4/80, CD206, and SIRPα expressing cells within the lesions were performed through the implementation of multi-color immunohistochemistry (mIHC). Small peritoneal macrophages (SpMs, F4/80low CD11blow) were markedly increased in the EMS model. Trem2 knockout mice, as the recipient, showed smaller ectopic lesion size and less lesion formation. TREM2 deficiency inhibited SpM polarization into M2 and downregulated their SIRPα expression, while enhancing phagocytic activity. Mechanistically, estrogen pretreatment upregulated TREM2, which correlated with SIRPα upregulation and impaired phagocytosis. Under estrogen exposure, TREM2 knockdown RAW 264.7 cells potentiated phagocytosis. Thus, TREM2 is an important contributing pathogenic factor in promoting EMS by enhancing M2 polarization and suppressing phagocytosis via SIRPα upregulation.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for the Study of Reproduction. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Restrictive cardiomyopathy (RCM) is characterized by pronounced cardiac fibrosis, leading to ventricular stiffening and diastolic dysfunction. While cardiomyocyte mutations are known triggers, the mechanisms initiating pro-fibrotic signaling remain elusive. This study investigates the role of cardiomyocyte-derived exosomes and specific tRNA-derived small RNAs (tsRNAs) in this pathogenic intercellular communication. Using a cTnIR193H knock-in mouse model, we observed pronounced cardiac fibrosis prior to the onset of heart failure, without significant cardiomyocyte apoptosis. This primary fibrotic response was mediated by a paracrine mechanism, as conditioned medium from mutant cardiomyocytes was sufficient to activate fibroblasts. Subsequent small RNA sequencing of cardiomyocyte-derived exosomes identified the tRNA-derived fragment 5'tiRNA-GluCTC as a significantly enriched species. Functional studies established this RNA as a critical mediator, demonstrating that its overexpression exacerbated fibrotic responses in vitro and induced fibrotic remodeling in wild-type mice, while its inhibition via a cardiac-targeted AAV sponge attenuated fibroblast activation and alleviated fibrosis in RCM mice. Mechanistically, 5'tiRNA-GluCTC is transferred to fibroblasts, directly targets the 3'UTR of Foxq1 to repress its expression, and consequently activates the Smad3/p-Smad3 signaling cascade. Collectively, these results delineate a 5'tiRNA-GluCTC/Foxq1/Smad3 signaling axis that drives fibrosis in RCM, uncovering a previously uncharacterized signaling cascade with therapeutic potential.Copyright 2026 The Author(s).
Resistance to anti-programmed cell death protein-1 (PD-1) treatment in gastric cancer (GC) is closely associated with an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment. However, the role of neutrophils in resistance to anti-PD-1 therapy remains unclear.Single-cell RNA sequencing was performed on tumor samples from patients with advanced GC receiving anti-PD-1 therapy to identify neutrophil subsets associated with neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs). Multilevel experimental validation was conducted using multiomics analysis, flow cytometry, multiplex immunofluorescence, and in vitro co-culture. Therapeutic strategies targeting NETs and CD8+ T-cell exhaustion were evaluated in a mouse model of YTN16 tumors.We identified a NETs-associated neutrophil subset enriched in patients with GC resistant to anti-PD-1 treatment. This subset was marked by CD177, and it exhibited a high potential for NETs release. Peripheral blood NETs levels and CD177+ neutrophil ratios in patients with GC act as markers for evaluating the efficacy of PD-1 inhibitors. Furthermore, transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1), which was highly expressed in GC and spatially colocalized with CD177+ neutrophils, might induce neutrophils to release NETs via the Smad3-NFE2 axis. NETs promoted CD8+ T cell exhaustion by activating the MEK/ERK-c-Fos/JunB axis, as evidenced by increased PD-1/TIM3 expression and reduced interferon-gamma/tumor necrosis factor-alpha secretion. In vivo experiments confirmed that targeted inhibition of NETs formation using DNase I or TGF-β1 inhibitors significantly suppressed tumor growth and CD8+ T cell exhaustion. Notably, the MEK inhibitor trametinib reversed the immunosuppressive microenvironment associated with CD8+ T cell exhaustion and synergistically enhanced the antitumor efficacy with anti-PD-1 therapy.TGF-β1 drives CD177+ neutrophils to release NETs, which induce CD8+ T cell exhaustion via the ERK-c-Fos-JunB pathway, thereby mediating resistance to anti-PD-1 treatment in GC. Furthermore, targeting NETs formation and combining trametinib with PD-1 inhibitors can significantly reverse CD8+ T cell exhaustion, exert synergistic antitumor effects, and offer a potential therapeutic strategy for overcoming resistance to anti-PD-1 therapy in GC.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
An essential uncontrolled process-liver fibrosis-is vital to cirrhosis and liver cancer onset. There are currently no approved antifibrotic drugs in clinical application. Saponins are a class of major bioactive components of Bupleuri radix (Chaihu) that play important roles against liver fibrosis. Glycolysis inhibition may control the activation of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs), serving as an effective anti-fibrotic strategy. However, the mechanism by which saikosaponins exert anti-liver fibrosis effects by regulating glycolysis through HIF-1α is unclear.To explore the mechanism by which Bupleuri radix total saikosaponins (BRTS) inhibit HSC activation and alleviate liver fibrosis.Purified BRTS were obtained by extraction with saturated aqueous n-butanol solution, followed by adsorption and purification with AB-8 macroporous resin. After removing impurities using 40% ethanol, the product was washed with 90% ethanol. LC-MS/MS and HPLC were used to characterize the BRTS components and determine their contents. We used Network pharmacology to predict the possible mechanism underlying BRTS. CCl4 was intraperitoneally injected to create a liver fibrosis rat model, and we added TGF-β1 to LX-2 cells to create a HSC activation model. Haematoxylin and eosin (H&E), Masson, and Sirius Red staining of liver tissue, along with serum and liver biochemical indicator measurement analysed the extent of liver injury and fibrosis. Western blotting, qRT-PCR, immunofluorescence, immunohistochemistry, transcriptomics, and metabolomics practices analysed liver fibrosis- or HSC activation-related protein, gene, and metabolite expression. ELISA kits were used to detect glycolytic activity, SIRT3 deacetylase activity, lactate secretion, and the glucose uptake rate. Moreover, the mechanism by which BRTS improves liver fibrosis was validated using a glycolysis inhibitor, i.e., 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG), 2-methoxyestradiol (2-ME, a kind of HIF-1α inhibitor), dimethyl oxoglutarate (DMOG, a kind of HIF-1α stabilizer), and SIRT3 inhibitor (3-TYP).The overall yield of BRTS was 6.56 ± 0.41%, and the main components were saikosaponin A (176.1 ± 10.5 mg/g) and saikosaponin D (132.7 ± 7.7 mg/g). Network pharmacology and LC-MS analyses revealed that the core anti-liver fibrosis target was HIF-1α. BRTS may show anti-liver fibrosis properties by regulating the HIF-1 signalling pathway, per the KEGG pathway enrichment analysis. Molecular docking suggested that both saikosaponin A and saikosaponin D can stably bind to SIRT3. In vivo, BRTS can improve the symptoms of CCl4-mediated liver fibrosis, alleviate liver injury, reduce collagen fibre content, and decrease collagen deposition, including significantly reduced serum AST and ALT activity, serum LN, HA, PC III, and COL IV levels, and liver lactate levels. BRTS significantly reversed the increased α-SMA, COL1, HIF-1α, and p-SMAD3 protein expression and the decreased SIRT3 protein expression (p<0.05). In addition, BRTS downregulated GLUT1, PKM2, HK2, and LDHA mRNA expression (all glycolytic genes) than the MOD group (p<0.05). The in vitro experimental results revealed that BRTS significantly inhibited LX-2 cell activation caused by TGF-β1, and reduced glucose uptake rates and level of lactate released (p<0.05). BRTS administration raised SIRT3 protein expression and activation, reduced HIF-1α and p-SMAD3 nuclear translocation, downregulated COL1, HIF-1α, α-SMA, and p-SMAD3 protein expression, and reduced glycolytic gene mRNA expression (p<0.05). In LX-2 cells, 2-DG and 2-ME further promoted the suppressive impact of BRTS on glycolysis and activation. Compared with BRTS treatment, DMOG resulted in significant reversal of the suppressive impact of BRTS on glycolysis as well as activation and COL1 and HIF-1α protein expression. In addition, BRTS promoted the deacetylase activity of SIRT3. In LX-2 activated cells where SIRT3 is inhibited, the inhibitory effect of BRTS on HIF-1α and p-SMAD3 protein expression is eliminated.BRTS regulates the SMAD3/HIF-1α signalling axis through SIRT3 to mediate glycolysis in HSCs, which suppresses HSC activation and improves liver fibrosis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Recent studies suggest that copy number variants (CNVs) may contribute to the missing heritability of complex diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) and related dementias (ADRD). We performed a CNV analysis using genotyping data (Axiom 815 K Spanish biobank array) from the GR@ACE/DEGESCO dementia dataset (n = 20,067) of the Spanish population. Applying PennCNV and extensive quality control, 8275 controls and 7818 dementia cases were selected for gene-level case/control associations. We identified 43,833 CNVs with deletions (47%) and duplications (53%). No genome-wide significant associations were found, but nominal associations were observed in PKP3-SIGIRR and FBRSL1 loci. CNVs in 2970 genes were exclusive to dementia cases and enriched in vascular-related pathways. Notable findings included 14q11.2 duplication and VPS13B deletions in ADRD cases, the latter confirmed by optical genome mapping. Our findings suggest potential novel genes associated with ADRD in the Spanish population. However, the limited resolution of array-based technologies in detecting CNVs warrants further investigation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Interleukin-37 (IL-37) is an anti-inflammatory cytokine with emerging roles in immune regulation and tumor biology. Its functional interaction with the single immunoglobulin IL-1-related receptor (SIGIRR) has been implicated in modulation of inflammatory signaling pathways that may influence leukemogenesis. However, the clinical significance of the IL-37/SIGIRR axis in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) remains insufficiently explored. The present study explored their potential associations with clinical characteristics, molecular mutations and treatment outcomes to determine their utility as potential prognostic biomarkers in the studied population.This study enrolled 50 newly diagnosed adult patients with AML and 50 age and sex matched healthy controls. Expression levels of IL-37 and SIGIRR mRNA were quantified using reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RTqPCR). Both IL-37 and SIGIRR mRNA expression levels were significantly downregulated in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) compared to healthy controls (p = 0.011 and p < 0.001, respectively). Notably, patients with refractory disease exhibited significantly lower expression levels of both markers compared to those who achieved complete remission (p = 0.006 and p < 0.001, respectively).The present findings indicate that down-regulation of IL-37 and its receptor SIGIRR is associated with poor therapeutic response in AML. These results suggest that the IL-37/SIGIRR axis represents a potential prognostic biomarker and may contribute to immune-mediated mechanisms involved in AML progression. Further large-scale studies are warranted to validate these findings and to explore the potential of targeting this pathway as a novel immunomodulatory therapeutic strategy in AML.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification and T-cell metabolic reprogramming are increasingly recognized as critical drivers of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). However, how the anti-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-37 intersects with m6A-mediated metabolic regulation remains unclear. Here, we show that IL-37 alleviates colitis by reducing global m6A levels and reshaping CD4+ T-cell metabolism. Mechanistically, IL-37 signals through its receptor SIGIRR to inhibit IRAK4 and JNK phosphorylation, suppress NF-κB p65 activation, and downregulate METTL14, thereby decreasing m6A deposition. The IL-37/METTL14 axis notably reduces m6A enrichment at the A2445 site in the 3'UTR of SLC2A1, destabilizing its mRNA and suppressing glycolysis. In vitro T-cell polarization and adoptive transfer of METTL14-overexpressing CD4+ T cells confirmed that this metabolic shift restrains Th1/Th17 differentiation while promoting Th2 expansion. Together, these findings reveal the IL-37/SIGIRR-METTL14-m6A axis as a novel regulator of T-cell metabolism and highlight SLC2A1 as a potential therapeutic target in IBD.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
The genetic basis of impaired intestinal barrier function in preterm infants is poorly understood. Variants in single immunoglobulin interleukin1-related receptor, a negative regulator of Toll-like receptor signaling, have been identified in preterm infants with necrotizing enterocolitis. We hypothesized that single immunoglobulin interleukin1-related receptor variants associated with necrotizing enterocolitis impair gut barrier function to pathobionts. The aim of this study was to determine how single immunoglobulin interleukin1-related receptor genetic variants disrupt neonatal intestinal barrier integrity and promote susceptibility to Gram-negative bacteria implicated in sepsis and necrotizing enterocolitis pathogenesis.Transgenic mice and preterm infant-derived enteroids expressing SIGIRR variants identified in necrotizing enterocolitis were used to define how single immunoglobulin interleukin1-related receptor regulates epithelial junctional protein assembly. An Escherichia coli strain identified in neonatal sepsis was used for functional evaluation of gut barrier function.Neonatal mice harboring the SIGIRR p.Y168X mutation (Sigirrmu/mu), exhibited loss of epithelial junctional proteins, impaired barrier function, and activation of Twist family BHLH transcription factor 1 with exaggerated Toll-like receptor signaling. Sigirrmu/mu mice were highly susceptible to bacteremia when enterally challenged with pathogenic E coli. Pharmacologic inhibition of Twist family BHLH transcription factor 1 or genetic deletion of Toll-like receptor 4 restored barrier integrity. Preterm human enteroids expressing the SIGIRR p.Y168X and p.P115R variants recapitulated barrier defects and Twist family BHLH transcription factor 1 activation in a bacteria-free environment. Twist family BHLH transcription factor 1 inhibition reversed these defects in both human and murine enteroids.SIGIRR preserves neonatal intestinal epithelial barrier integrity by repressing TWIST1-mediated disruption of junctional proteins. Loss of SIGIRR function compromises epithelial barrier and promotes bacterial translocation, revealing a genetic mechanism underlying gut barrier dysfunction in necrotizing enterocolitis and neonatal sepsis.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Background/Objectives: Genetic generalized epilepsies (GGE) often remit in childhood, yet a subset of adults remain pharmacoresistant with substantial morbidity. The genetic basis of adult pharmacoresistant GGE is poorly defined. This descriptive study used whole-genome sequencing (WGS) to identify recurrent coding variants and pathways associated with pharmacoresistant adult GGE. Methods: WGS was performed in ten racially diverse adults (mean age 37.2 years; range 20-52) with electroencephalographically confirmed, pharmacoresistant GGE (mean onset 13.7 years). Analysis prioritized variants present in at least 80% of participants and which were either (i) missense variants predicted deleterious with ANNOVAR or (ii) loss-of-function variants predicted high-impact from snpEff. Pathway enrichment and overlap with a commercial clinical epilepsy gene panel were assessed. Results: Filtering identified 133 unique, deleterious coding variants across 69 genes shared by at least eight participants. Four genes (APOL4, KMT2C, SON, VDR) overlapped a clinical epilepsy panel, supporting the capacity of WGS to recover clinically relevant loci. Prioritized loci implicated gastrointestinal and metabolic regulators (e.g., MUC6, PNLIPRP2), chemosensory receptors (OR10D3, OR8U1, TAS2R19), neuroimmune mediators (LILRA2, SIGLEC12, OAS2), and ion transporters (KCNJ12, P2RX5, RHBG), consistent with multifactorial mechanisms of pharmacoresistance. Conclusions: This exploratory WGS study focused exclusively on adults with pharmacoresistant GGE, revealing shared high-impact variants and convergent pathways spanning absorption/metabolism, vitamin D signaling, immunity, and ion transport. Findings broaden the genetic landscape of pharmacoresistant GGE while motivating validation in larger, multiethnic cohorts.
Leukocyte immunoglobulin (Ig)-like receptors (LILRs) constitute a family of 11 structurally related receptors predominantly expressed on immune cells. Despite their functional diversity, LILRs show a high degree of sequence homology within their extracellular domains, with amino acid sequence identities ranging from approximately 50% to nearly 100%. This molecular similarity poses a significant challenge for antibody-based detection, often resulting in cross-reactivity and misinterpretation of expression profiles. Nevertheless, a comprehensive assessment of antibody specificity across the entire LILR family has not been previously conducted. In this study, we performed a rigorous validation of commercially available antibodies to evaluate their specificity and cross-reactivity against all LILR family members. Using flow cytometry with LILR-transfected K562 cells, we reliably identified specific antibodies for LILRA2, LILRA4, LILRA5, LILRB1, LILRB2, and LILRB4. Notably, more than half of the commercial antibodies showed cross-reactivity. Given the lack of a reliable antibody for LILRA3, the only known soluble member of the family, we generated novel anti-LILRA3 monoclonal antibodies in mice. Three hybridoma clones exhibiting high specificity for LILRA3 were successfully isolated and validated. Using these antibodies, we established a sensitive sandwich ELISA, which successfully detected LILRA3 in individuals carrying functional alleles, while no protein was detected in those with the 6.7-kb deletion or premature termination codons. Moreover, serum concentrations of LILRA3 were substantially higher than previously reported. These findings not only provide essential tools for accurate detection of LILRA3 but also underscore the importance of rigorous antibody validation in LILR-related research.Copyright © 2026 Tanimoto, Nguyen, Hasegawa, Hashikawa, Hanayama and Hirayasu.
Liver inflammation is a key driver of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and its progressive subtype, nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Macrophages, as central players in the innate immune response, are crucial to disease pathogenesis; however, the upstream events that initiate their activation remain poorly defined. Here, we employed a cell-based chimeric receptor screening system and identified CD1d as a surface ligand for PIRA2. We subsequently demonstrated that CD1d stimulation activated macrophages both in vitro and in vivo. Co-immunoprecipitation assays further confirmed a direct interaction between CD1d and PIRA2. Using Pira2-deficient (Pira2-/-) mice, we observed significantly reduced hepatic inflammation and lipid accumulation compared to wild-type controls. Importantly, macrophage-specific Pira2 conditional knockout mice similarly exhibited reduced macrophage activation and inflammatory cytokine production in vivo, confirming a macrophage-intrinsic role of PIRA2. Mechanistically, CD1d-PIRA2 interaction involves the α1 and α2 domains of CD1d and the D1 and D2 domains of PIRA2, leading to FcRγ ITAM tyrosine phosphorylation and downstream inflammatory signaling-events that are impaired in Pira2-/- macrophages. Additionally, CD1d and LILRA2 protein levels were elevated in NAFLD patients, and CD1d stimulation induced proinflammatory cytokine expression in human macrophages, which was attenuated by LILRA2 blockade. A recombinant LILRA2/Fc fusion protein effectively blocked CD1d-induced inflammatory gene expression in human macrophages, highlighting its potential as a therapeutic strategy for NAFLD. Collectively, our findings identify CD1d as a functional ligand of PIRA2 that promotes macrophage activation and inflammation, contributing to inflammatory progression in NAFLD.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study aimed to explore the changes of serum brain natriuretic peptide (BNP), procalcitonin (PCT), and recombinant single Ig IL-1-related receptor (SIGIRR) in patients with sepsis associated with abdominal infection in emergency and their relationship with prognosis and construct a nomogram prediction model. A total of 160 emergency patients with abdominal infection were divided into simple infection group (n = 80) and sepsis group (n = 80) according to whether sepsis occurred or not, and the baseline data, serum BNP, PCT, and SIGIRR levels of the 2 groups were compared. Patients in the sepsis group were divided into survival group (n = 52) and death group (n = 28) according to their survival conditions within 28 days. The baseline data, serum BNP, PCT, and SIGIRR levels of the 2 groups were compared, and the diagnostic value of serum BNP, PCT, and SIGIRR levels in the sepsis group was analyzed by receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve. The related factors affecting the prognosis of sepsis patients were analyzed using a binary logistic equation. The nomogram risk prediction model of poor prognosis of sepsis patients is drawn and verified by calibration curve and ROC curve. The serum levels of BNP, PCT, and SIGIRR in the simple infection group were significantly lower than those in the sepsis group (P < .05). In patients with sepsis group, the serum levels of BNP, PCT, and SIGIRR in the death group were significantly higher than those in the survival group (P < .05). ROC curve analysis showed that the areas under the curve of serum BNP, PCT, and SIGIRR in predicting the poor prognosis of sepsis patients were 0.874, 0.824, and 0.784, respectively. Univariate and multivariate logistic regression analyses showed that serum BNP, PCT, and SIGIRR levels were independent risk factors for poor prognosis of sepsis patients (P < .05). Based on the independent risk factors (BNP, PCT, and SIGIRR) screened by logistic regression model, the nomogram was constructed, with Concordance Index of 0.947, which indicated that the nomogram had good discrimination and consistency. The levels of BNP, PCT, and SIGIRR of patients with sepsis were significantly increased, which was significantly related to the poor prognosis of patients. The nomogram prediction model constructed on this basis is helpful for clinicians to provide better individualized treatment for the poor prognosis of patients with sepsis associated with abdominal infection.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is a prevalent metabolic disorder, and identifying robust biomarkers is crucial for improving diagnosis and understanding its pathogenesis.We analyzed the gene expression dataset GSE250283 from the GEO database to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Functional enrichment analyses (GO and KEGG) were performed. A comprehensive evaluation of 113 machine learning algorithm combinations was conducted to select an optimal model for hub gene identification and diagnostic prediction. The expression of key genes was validated using independent datasets and quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR). Immune infiltration analysis, gene regulatory network prediction, and drug interaction analysis were also carried out.A total of 393 DEGs were identified, primarily enriched in immune-related functions and pathways. The LASSO+GBM hybrid model demonstrated superior relative performance among the tested algorithms and pinpointed six hub genes: LY96, CCR1, BLVRB, TCF3, LILRA2, and NCF1. A logistic regression model based on these genes showed promising predictive accuracy (AUC > 0.75) in both training and testing sets. Validation confirmed that BLVRB and NCF1 were significantly dysregulated. Immune infiltration revealed significant alterations in the immune cell landscape of T2DM patients, with BLVRB and NCF1 showing substantial correlations with various immune cells. Regulatory network analysis suggested hsa-miR-127-5p as a potential upstream regulator of BLVRB, and methylene blue was identified as a potential targeting drug.This study identifies novel immune-related candidate genes, particularly BLVRB and NCF1, for T2DM. The constructed diagnostic model shows potential for further development and the findings offer new insights into the immune mechanisms and potential therapeutic avenues for T2DM.Copyright © 2026 Cui, Li, Hu, Li, Du, Fang, Huang and Zhang.
Dysregulation of the peripheral immune system may increase Alzheimer's disease (AD) risk, but the underlying cell type-specific mechanisms remain unclear.We conducted Mendelian randomization and colocalization analyses of 4489 genes using single-cell expression quantitative trait locus data from unstimulated and stimulated peripheral immune cells, integrated with an AD genome-wide association study (N = 455,258). Spatial transcriptomics of brain tissue samples was used to identify brain-infiltrating immune cells.Thirteen genes were associated with AD risk. Expression of BIN1, CTSW, CTSH, HLA-DRB1, TSTD1, PLEKHA1, and SCIMP increased AD risk, while EPHA1-AS1, FCER1G, FIBP, KAT8, STX4, and HLA-DQA1 reduced it. These associations were peripheral immune cell type and state specific. PLEKHA1 and TSTD1 were upregulated and FIBP downregulated in natural killer and T cells in AD brain tissue.These findings link immune cell-specific gene expression to AD risk across activation states and within brain-infiltrating immune cells, highlighting potential targets for immune-based AD prevention and treatment.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42523765 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42511837 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42492374 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42463973 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42460995 is a review article
In recent years, the incidence of allergic asthma has increased dramatically. Allergen immunotherapy (AIT) is an effective approach to achieve long-term remission of allergic asthma and has gained widespread attention. However, current AIT suffers from low efficacy and long treatment duration. In this study, we found that IL-37a transgenic mice with allergic asthma exhibited reduced pulmonary inflammation, decreased Th2 cytokines, and lower allergen-specific IgE following AIT. Mechanistic studies revealed increased IL-37+ Bregs, suggesting that IL-37a may promote AIT through Bregs. Our study demonstrates the promoting effect of IL-37 in allergen immunotherapy and suggests that Bregs may underlie this mechanism, providing insights for overcoming the limitations of AIT in the future.© 2026. The Author(s).
COVID-19 severity is largely determined by dysregulated host inflammatory responses, yet biomarkers that reflect this immunological imbalance and support clinical risk stratification remain insufficiently defined. The IL-1 cytokine family has emerged as a relevant component of antiviral and hyperinflammatory responses, particularly through the IL-18/IL-37/IL-18 binding protein a (IL-18BPa) axis, which integrates pro-inflammatory signaling and immune regulation. However, the clinical relevance of this axis in COVID-19 severity remains poorly characterized. In this cross-sectional study, we evaluated IL-37, total IL-18, free IL-18, and IL-18BPa in patients with mild COVID-19, severe ICU-admitted COVID-19, and healthy controls from Northeastern Brazil. Cytokines were quantified by ELISA, free IL-18 was estimated using the law of mass action, and biochemical markers were assessed. Statistical analyses included group comparisons, correlation analyses, and ROC curve evaluation. COVID-19 patients showed reduced IL-37 levels compared with healthy controls, while severe cases presented higher IL-37 concentrations than mild cases, suggesting a compensatory but insufficient regulatory response during disease progression. Conversely, total IL-18, free IL-18, and IL-18BPa were markedly increased in severe COVID-19. In severe patients, total and free IL-18 positively correlated with triglycerides, AST, ALT, and cholesterol, linking IL-18 bioactivity to metabolic and hepatic alterations associated with systemic inflammation. ROC analysis identified IL-18BPa as the strongest discriminator of severe disease (AUC = 0.9987; sensitivity 100%; specificity 96.97%), followed by total and free IL-18 (AUC > 0.94). These findings highlight IL-18BPa as a promising biomarker of COVID-19 severity and support the clinical relevance of this regulatory axis in hyperinflammatory disease.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Myasthenia gravis (MG) is a clinically and immunologically heterogeneous autoimmune disease and there is little known about the differential effects of cytokines in disease subgroups. This study aimed to compare serum cytokine profiles across distinct MG subgroups, including early-onset MG (EOMG), late-onset MG (LOMG), muscle-specific kinase antibody-positive MG (MuSK-MG), thymoma-associated MG (TAMG), and healthy controls (HC) in order to distinguish and determine relatively specific targets for the disease subgroups.Serum samples from 22 EOMG, 23 LOMG, 17 MuSK-MG, 25 TAMG patients, and 25 HC were analyzed for a panel of cytokines involved in T and B cell interactions using multiplex bead-based immunoassays and ELISA. Additionally, paired serum samples of the same patients before and after immunosuppressive therapy were evaluated in a subset of patients.IL-17A, IL-4, IFN-γ, IL-21, and IL-9 were significantly elevated in EOMG and MuSK-MG groups, whereas IL-17F, IL-37, IL-2, TNF-α, and IL-13 were higher in EOMG only compared with HC. Increased levels of IL-6 in MuSK-MG and IL-37 in EOMG were found in these subtypes. In contrast, LOMG and TAMG patients showed limited cytokine alterations, with significant increases only in IL-21 in LOMG and IL-17A in TAMG. Immunosuppressive therapy did not significantly alter serum cytokine concentrations.The findings reveal heterogeneous cytokine signatures among diverse MG subgroups, separating EOMG and MuSK-MG from TAMG and LOMG with some similarities and highlighting the impact of age and thymoma presence on immune responses. This assessment of disease subgroups has provided a broader understanding of the cytokines in MG.© 2026 The Author(s). Muscle & Nerve published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Non-infectious uveitis (NIU) is a leading cause of intraocular inflammation, and the underlying immunological mechanisms remain incompletely understood. This study aims to classify NIU at the molecular level and interpret its biological mechanisms by applying machine learning and explainable artificial intelligence (XAI) methods to transcriptomic data from CD1c+ conventional dendritic cells type 2 (cDC2) isolated from the peripheral blood of NIU patients.Two independent cohorts (GSE194060 and GSE195501; n = 78) from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database were integrated using a strict, leakage-free pipeline. Batch correction and analysis of variance (ANOVA)-based feature selection, applied exclusively on the training set, identified the 20 most informative genes from 8,815 candidates. L2-regularized logistic regression, support vector machines, and random forest models were compared. The model's biological basis was elucidated using Shapley Additive Explanations (SHAP) analysis and comprehensive pathway enrichment analyses.The L2-regularized logistic regression model achieved the best performance with a nested cross-validation area under the curve (AUC) of 0.863, test AUC of 0.855, accuracy of 81.2%, recall of 90.9%, and F1-score of 0.870. Leave-One-Dataset-Out (LODO) validation supported cross-platform generalizability (mean AUC: 0.82). Permutation testing confirmed the model's statistical significance (p = 0.005). SHAP analysis identified CD180 and TLR7 as the most important biomarkers. Pathway enrichment analysis revealed significant enrichment in chemokine receptor activity, MYD88-mediated signaling, Toll-like receptor cascades, and G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) signaling pathways.These findings demonstrate the potential of XAI to elucidate disease mechanisms from transcriptomic data and present an interpretable 20-gene signature as a candidate diagnostic biomarker panel for non-infectious uveitis that warrants further clinical validation.Copyright © 2026 Fırat.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42567952
Neutrophilic asthma is defined as an inflammatory disease typified by airway neutrophil infiltration. Tripartite motif-containing protein 31 (TRIM31), an E3 ligase, is implicated in various processes, including inflammation, tumorigenesis, and immune responses. However, the function of TRIM31 in neutrophilic asthma remains to be elucidated. In the study, we identified that TRIM31 expression was markedly upregulated and interleukin 17 (IL-17) pathway had an enrichment in bronchial biopsy tissues from neutrophilic asthma patients through bioinformatics analysis. TRIM31 was also elevated in lung tissues from mice with neutrophilic asthma. Further studies revealed that TRIM31 overexpression inhibited IL-17 mediated signaling cascade. TRIM31 bonded to TRAF6 and the interaction was strengthened in a dose-dependent manner. TRIM31 overexpression reduced the total and M1-linked ubiquitin chains of TRAF6. In the presence of IL-17 A, TRIM31-TRAF6 interaction was enhanced, and TRAF6 ubiquitination further decreased. Whereas TRIM31 knockdown increased TRAF6 ubiquitination and promoted IL-17-mediated signaling activation. In addition, TRIM31 failed to regulate IL-17 signaling in the TRAF6 deficiency cells. Overall, these findings demonstrated that TRIM31 regulated inflammation in neutrophilic asthma through suppression of TRAF6-mediated IL-17 pathway. These results provided new insights into the intricate pathophysiological mechanisms of neutrophilic asthma.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Sea cucumber is a high-value marine food that contains characteristic bioactive components, notably saponins and polysaccharides. Strategies promoting their biosynthesis to improve sea cucumber quality are vital for the industry. The impacts of three dietary yeast β-glucans (native β-glucan, ultrasonic-degraded low-molecular-weight β-glucan, and carboxymethylated β-glucan) on the biosynthesis of saponin and fucosylated chondroitin sulfate (FCS) in A. japonicus and the underlying mechanism were investigated. A 28-day feeding trial showed that modified β-glucans improved growth performance and immune responses, as well as elevated the body wall accumulation of saponin and FCS. Mechanistically, modified β-glucans up-regulated the genes involved in the saponin and FCS biosynthesis, including the core mevalonate pathway (hmgcr, mvk, mvd), downstream post-squalene modifications (sqle), and chondroitin backbone biosynthesis (xylt1, chsy1, chpf). Moreover, these β-glucans up-regulated the TLR-MAPK signaling axis genes (tlr, myd88, irak4, traf6, tak1, mkk1, erk, p38) and increased p38/ERK protein abundance and phosphorylation levels. In vivo MAPK inhibition attenuated β-glucan-induced saponin and FCS accumulation and the expression of hmgcr, sqle, xylt1, and chsy1. Our findings reveal that modified β-glucans enhance A. japonicus quality by promoting saponin and FCS biosynthesis in association with the TLR-MAPK signaling axis-mediated immune-metabolic crosstalk.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Visceral leishmaniasis (VL), caused by Leishmania donovani, is characterised by progressive immune dysregulation that supports parasite persistence. The CD40-CD40L axis is essential for antigen-presenting cell (APC) licensing and Th1-mediated nitric oxide-dependent parasite control; however, how its function evolves during infection remains incompletely understood. Here, we define the temporal regulation and functional polarity of CD40 signalling during experimental VL.Using BALB/c mice and primary macrophage assays, we investigated the temporal regulation of CD40 signalling during experimental VL. CD40 expression, cytokine production, nitric oxide levels, antibody responses, T-cell phenotypes, immune checkpoint expression, and macrophage activation were evaluated during progressive infection. Functional studies included CD40 agonism, CD40 knockdown, and TRAF-selective CD40 reconstitution to assess stage-specific effects on parasite control and immune regulation.Increasing parasite burden drove a gradual shift in CD40 signalling from protective to suppressive outcomes. In vitro infection reduced CD40 expression and IL-12 production while increasing IL-10, indicating early impairment of APC licensing. In vivo, progressive splenic infection was associated with diminished nitric oxide production, a declining IgG2a/IgG1 ratio, expansion of GATA3+ Th2 and FOXP3+ regulatory T-cell populations, and increased PD-L1 and TIM-3 expression, consistent with a regulatory and exhausted immune environment. Despite partial recovery of CD40 expression on myeloid APCs at later stages, declining CD40L+ T-cell availability and sustained IL-10/Arg1 signalling limited functional responsiveness. Early CD40 agonism failed to restore parasite control, whereas late activation exacerbated disease. CD40 knockdown increased parasite burden and reduced iNOS+ macrophages, confirming the requirement for CD40-dependent licensing. Finally, TRAF2- biased CD40 signalling promoted macrophage activation and parasite restriction, whereas TRAF6-biased signalling reinforced immunosuppression.These findings identify a stage-dependent functional threshold beyond which CD40 signalling no longer sustains protective immunity during VL, highlighting the importance of restoring APC competence and selectively directing CD40 signalling through TRAF2-linked pathways.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of British Society of Immunology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Pathogens infect hosts by interacting with host proteins and exploiting their functions to their advantage. Short linear motifs, small functional regions within intrinsically disordered protein regions, are common mediators of host-pathogen protein interactions. While motifs have been more extensively studied in viruses and bacteria, the extent to which eukaryotic unicellular parasites use motifs during infection remains poorly explored. Toxoplasma gondii is a widespread intracellular apicomplexan parasite capable of infecting all warm-blooded animals and invading any of their nucleated cells. Toxoplasma's secreted proteins are key in interacting with host proteins during infection, making them potential sources for motifs. To study the role of motifs in Toxoplasma gondii infection, we curated 19 known motif instances in Toxoplasma proteins from the scientific literature. To identify more motifs in Toxoplasma-secreted proteins, we developed a computational pipeline that predicts and annotates putative motif matches with structural and functional features. Using this approach, we identified 24,097 motif matches within 295 proteins from secretory organelles. We highlight strategies to further prioritize likely functional motif matches by focusing on integrin motifs, degrons, TRAF6-binding motifs, and 42 confirmed secreted proteins. We subjected peptides containing four predicted TRAF6-binding motifs to experimental validation, supporting the predicted motifs in the Toxoplasma proteins RON10 and GRA15. Our motif predictions provide a valuable resource for generating hypotheses and designing experiments to study infection mechanisms. The characterization of motifs in Toxoplasma will be key to understanding the molecular principles underlying its broad host range and more comprehensive apicomplexan infection strategies.IMPORTANCEToxoplasma gondii is a widely distributed intracellular parasite that achieves successful infection by interacting with different host cell proteins. Short linear motifs are small functional modules found in unstructured protein regions and recognized by folded protein domains. Given that unstructured protein regions are a common feature of Toxoplasma's proteins, we hypothesize that motifs play important roles during its infection cycle. Here, we highlight the role of motifs during the Toxoplasma host cell invasion cycle through a curated set of motif examples. Through a computational pipeline, we predict thousands of motifs in secreted proteins, outline strategies for working with these predictions, and finally experimentally test peptides containing a motif involved in the innate immune response, successfully supporting the potential binding of two motifs. Our work provides a resource for further motif testing in Toxoplasma proteins, aiming at understanding the molecular mechanisms of the organism's infection strategies and its broad host range.
Aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) is a mycotoxin that impairs the function of various vital organs of the body including testes. Prunin (PRU) is a plant derived flavonoid with potential pharmacological properties. The current research was performed to assess the potential role of PRU to counter AFB1-induced testicular toxicity in male albino rats. Forty-eight male rats (Weight: 230-250 g; Age: 8-10 week) were divided into four equal groups, including control, AFB1 (50 μg/kg) group, AFB1 + PRU (50 μg/kg + 20 mg/kg) co-treated group, and only PRU (20 mg/kg) group. The groups were treated with their respective doses for 56 days and then the rats were euthanized, samples were collected and biochemical as well as histopathological analyses were performed. The outcomes of our research showed that AFB1 upsurged the expressions of myeloid differentiation primary response 88 (MyD88), toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6), and nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB). Moreover, AFB1 reduced the activities of antioxidant enzymes i.e., HO-1, GSR, GPx, CAT, SOD, while elevating ROS, MDA and inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1β, COX-2 and IL-6) levels. AFB1 intoxicated group showed notable reduction in the HOS coiled tail sperms and spermatogenic indices i.e., sperm motility, count and viability. Furthermore, AFB1 increased the structural defects in mid-piece, head and tail of sperms and lowered the levels of testosterone. AFB1 also induced histological injuries in the testicles of rats. Additionally, AFB1 lowered the expressions of Bcl-2 and steroidogenic enzymes and increased the expressions of Caspase-3 and Bax. However, PRU supplementation markedly recovered the testicular tissues from AFB1-induced injuries. Our findings proposed that PRU exhibits the protective effects against AFB1-instigated testicular toxicity due to its oxidative stress mitigating and TLR4/NF-κB pathway modulating properties.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
NLRC3 serves as a critical negative regulator of inflammatory signalling pathways and is implicated in the pathogenesis of multiple disorders, including inflammatory diseases and malignancies. However, the specific functions and underlying mechanisms of NLRC3 in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) development remain largely elusive. Here, we report that the expression of NLRC3 was downregulated in HCC tissues and was associated with poor prognosis. Mice deficient in NLRC3 were hypersusceptible to chemically induced hepatocarcinogenesis, and NLRC3 exerted a tumour-suppressive function during HCC development by inhibiting the TRAF6/MYC/NF-κB signalling cascade. Mechanistically, the NLRC3-HSP90 interaction competitively inhibited the binding of the HSP90 chaperone to TRAF6/MYC and impaired the K63-linked ubiquitination and stabilization of the TRAF6/MYC proteins. In the absence of NLRC3, TRAF6 and MYC reciprocally regulated the expression of the other and triggered a TRAF6-MYC positive feedback loop that accelerated the progression of HCC. Our study reveals a novel functional link between NLRC3 and MYC signalling and indicates that HSP90 is a potential target for hindering the progression of NLRC3-deficient HCC.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV) infection and reactivation in B-lymphocytes are tightly regulated by host antiviral response genes. In the present study, we identify Interferon Stimulated Genes (ISGs) RSAD2 (radical S-adenosyl methionine domain-containing 2) and CMPK2 (Cytidine/Uridine Monophosphate Kinase 2) as key modulators of EBV expression and cellular response during EBV infection and reactivation. EBV primary infection and reactivation lead to a coordinated upregulation of RSAD2 and CMPK2. Depletion of RSAD2 reduced cell viability and limited EBV reactivation, while depletion of CMPK2 led to reactivation of EBV lytic gene expression during latency. Despite distinct subcellular localizations, RSAD2 at the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and CMPK2 in the mitochondria, transcriptomic analysis revealed that both genes functionally converge and exhibit overlapping roles in driving shared immunometabolic pathways, specifically Interferon (IFN) signaling, MAPK signaling, oxidative phosphorylation, mitochondrial function, eukaryotic translation, and ATF-4-associated unfolded protein response (UPR). We show that RSAD2 and CMPK2 knockdown affects IRAK1-TRAF6-TAK1 expression levels, and RSAD2 overexpression downregulates NF-κB signaling by EBV membrane associated oncoprotein LMP1. Depletion of RSAD2 and CMPK2 had significant effects on global metabolites consistent with a remodeling of nucleotide metabolism, glycolysis, fatty acid biosynthesis and degradation of superoxides. EBV reactivation induced formation of antiviral ribonucleotide ddhCTP during lytic EBV reactivation which was strictly dependent on RSAD2. These observations demonstrate that RSAD2 and CMPK2 function in a coordinated ER-Mitochondria-Interferon signaling axis that shapes EBV reactivation and host immune control, including a novel layer of immunometabolic regulation modulating viral latency and reactivation.Copyright: © 2026 Zankharia et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Cranial neural crest (CNC) cells are essential developmental contributors to the remarkable diversity of vertebrate skull shapes, yet how underlying gene regulatory networks (GRNs) evolve to produce highly derived morphologies remains a challenging question. Syngnathid fishes (seahorses, pipefishes, pipehorses, and seadragons) are an opportune family of species in which to address this problem because of their unusual and extensive cranial diversity and their loss of craniofacial patterning genes, fgf3 and fgf4. Here we investigated whether syngnathid craniofacial evolution experienced only a few localized network changes or required global rewiring of CNC GRNs. Using comparative single-cell RNA sequencing, ATAC-seq and whole genome alignments across Gulf pipefish, threespine stickleback, and zebrafish, we found that the core pharyngeal arch CNC gene network is notably conserved in syngnathids despite their derived morphology. However, we identified key local changes including expression of fgf22 in percomorph CNC-derived pharyngeal arch cells that is not shared with more basally diverging zebrafish, as well as syngnathid-specific changes in conserved regulatory elements associated with the genes ece1 and spry2. We propose that, while loss of fgf3 expression causes severe craniofacial defects in zebrafish, pharyngeal CNC expression of fgf22 in the percomorph fish lineage provided functional redundancy and relaxed constraint on fgf3/4, and that altered regulation of Fgf pathway modulators could contribute to craniofacial elaboration. Our findings support a model in which local GRN modifications, rather than widespread network rewiring, underlie the evolution of derived syngnathid craniofacial structures.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42537739 is a review article
The selection of appropriate in vitro inflammatory models is critical for mechanistic studies of neuroinflammation and the screening of anti-inflammatory therapeutics. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) combined with interferon-γ (IFN-γ) and LPS combined with adenosine triphosphate (ATP) are widely used to induce microglial inflammation; however, their distinct phenotypic characteristics and optimal applications have not been systematically compared. In this study, we combined transcriptomic profiling with functional assays to compare these two inflammatory paradigms in BV2 microglia. Our results showed that both models activated the chemokine-cytokine inflammatory network and induced the production of inflammatory mediators and chemokines, but exhibited distinct molecular and functional biases. LPS/IFN-γ stimulation preferentially upregulated genes such as Lcn2, Ccl2, Upp1, and Pim2, which are associated with innate immune activation, chemokine-mediated inflammatory responses, and cell survival signaling, and was accompanied by marked increases in NO and TNF-α production. In contrast, the LPS/ATP model preferentially upregulated genes associated with ECM/cell adhesion, inflammatory and cellular homeostatic regulation, oxidative stress, and calcium-dependent secretion, including Thbs1, Thbd, Srxn1, Syt7, and Procr. Functionally, this model exhibited more pronounced IL-1β maturation and release, relatively lower NO production, and greater mitochondrial dysfunction and cell injury. Pharmacological inhibition of NLRP3 with MCC950 significantly attenuated ATP-induced IL-1β maturation, supporting the involvement of the NLRP3 inflammasome in the LPS/ATP model. Overall, the LPS/IFN-γ model is more suitable for investigating the NO/iNOS-TNF-α axis, IFN-γ-mediated synergistic pro-inflammatory responses, and classical pro-inflammatory activation, as well as for screening anti-inflammatory agents. In contrast, the LPS/ATP model is more appropriate for studying IL-1β maturation and release, NLRP3 inflammasome activation, mitochondrial damage, and inflammation-related cell death, as well as for screening inflammasome inhibitors. Our findings provide an empirical framework for rational model selection in microglial inflammation research.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Soft tissue tumors with chondroid matrix represent a heterogeneous group with persistent diagnostic challenges. Advances in molecular diagnostics have identified recurrent gene fusions in several chondroid neoplasms, predominantly involving FN1. Here, we report two cases of chondroid tumors harboring a novel FOS::PABPN1 fusion. The patients were young and presented with small, deep, peri-osseous nodules located in the extremities. Histologically, the tumors were well-circumscribed and lobulated. Both cases presented fibro-cartilaginous and spindle cell areas. No cytonuclear atypia, mitoses, or necrosis were observed. Immunohistochemistry (performed in Case 2) revealed positivity for S100, CD34, and FOS, with negativity for MDM2, HMGA2, PLAG1, and desmin. RNA sequencing identified an identical in-frame FOS::PABPN1 fusion transcript in both tumors. Unsupervised transcriptomic clustering positioned the cases near synovial chondromatoses and other chondroid lesions, despite the absence of FN1 rearrangements. Massive overexpression of the WIF1 (Wnt Inhibitory Factor1) gene was also observed. To our knowledge, this is the first description of FOS rearrangement in mesenchymal tumors exhibiting chondroid differentiation. The FOS::PABPN1 fusion expands the spectrum of FOS-altered neoplasms beyond osteoblastic and vascular lesions and defines a potential new molecular subset of benign chondroid tumors. These findings highlight the utility of RNA sequencing in the diagnosis of chondroid neoplasms in order to identify rearrangement (of FN1, THBS1 or FOS) or IDH1/2. The consistent upregulation of WIF1 may represent a potential diagnostic biomarker.© 2026 The Author(s). Genes, Chromosomes and Cancer published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
The fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family exhibits distinct yet overlapping specificities toward seven fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) isoforms, forming highly complex signaling networks through broad binding and activation profiles. FGF2 plays important physiological roles and has considerable therapeutic potential; however, its pleiotropic and non-selective activation of FGFRs can lead to adverse effects. Therefore, molecular engineering of FGF ligands with controlled receptor isoform specificity is required. Here, we engineered FGF2 variants with altered FGFR isoform specificity using mRNA display-based deep mutational scanning (DMS), thereby enabling systematic evaluation of residues within the FGFR-binding interface that contribute to FGFR isoform specificity despite limited structural information. We demonstrate for the first time that FGFs with altered FGFR isoform specificity can be generated. Notably, FGFR isoform specificity proved malleable and could be reprogrammed by single-amino acid substitutions. These findings reveal that receptor selectivity in FGF2 is tunable and provide a framework for rationally designing FGF ligands with tailored FGFR isoform specificity, advancing the understanding and control of complex FGF/FGFR signaling networks.This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558716 is a review article
To elucidate the synergistic mechanism of "Two flowers therapy" - a Behçet's disease (BD) treatment regimen used in China for more than 30 years, namely Total Glucosides of Paeony (TGP)-colchicine - and its efficacy, safety in BD with mucocutaneous involvement.A retrospective clinical cohort study integrated with computational biology was performed. Five bioactive components were chosen, among which four were from TGP and one was colchicine; 31 overlapping BD-related targets were identified via multi-omics, finally 6 core genes confirmed. 355 BD patients were divided into combination group (CG, n=231) and monotherapy group (MG, n=124).Four active components of TGP (oxypaeoniflorin, albiflorin, benzoyl paeoniflorin, paeoniflorin) and colchicine constituted five bioactive compounds. A total of 837 BD-related targets were retrieved from GeneCards, with 31 overlapping targets between the five compounds and BD. A PPI network (31 nodes, 197 edges) was constructed, and core targets (MMP9, ICAM1, FGF2, TLR4, EGFR, NOS3) were identified. Molecular docking confirmed their high affinity: colchicine formed hydrogen bonds with EGFR, ICAM1, NOS3 (2.2-3.4 Å) and hydrophobic interactions with TLR4; TGP components formed 2-4 hydrogen bonds with EGFR, FGF2, MMP9 (2.2-3.9 Å). GO analysis involved inflammation- and immune-related biological processes; KEGG identified 10 enriched pathways (including Lipid and atherosclerosis, AGE-RAGE) regulating inflammation, immunity and vascular function. Clinically, CG had superior early (M1-M2) efficacy: oral ulcer prevalence was 0.0% vs. 21.0% (M1) and 0.0% vs. 100.0% (M2), genital ulcer prevalence 0.9% vs. 6.5% (M1) (all p<0.05). Both groups achieved complete ulcer resolution from M3. ESR in CG was significantly lower at M2 (p<0.001), with no CRP difference. CG had transient diarrhea; no drug-associated cytopenia was reported in either group.TGP combined with colchicine, a regimen used in China for more than 30 years, exerts therapeutic effects on BD by regulating core targets and inflammatory pathways. Clinically, this regimen more effectively controls early mucocutaneous lesion recurrence in BD patients, with good long-term efficacy and safety.Copyright © 2026 Liu, Li, Sun, Zhang, Li, Guan and Cai.
Bisphenol A (BPA) exposure is associated with gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM); however, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain elusive. This study aimed to identify key genes mediating BPA exposure-related GDM through integrative bioinformatics analysis. We integrated BPA-related targets from multiple databases with GDM-associated genes derived from GeneCards and the GSE103552 dataset. Functional enrichment analysis was performed on the intersecting genes. A protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was constructed, and hub genes were identified using four topological algorithms. Machine learning approaches were employed for feature selection. Immune infiltration was assessed, and core gene expression was validated via reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), additional GEO datasets, and single-cell RNA sequencing data. Thirty-four overlapping genes were identified and found to be enriched in the insulin signaling pathway, the AMPK pathway, and inflammatory responses. Following further screening, five core genes-HSPA8, NR3C1, ITGB1, NOTCH2, and POU5F1-were selected, demonstrating robust diagnostic performance. Immune analysis revealed significant correlations between hub genes and the infiltration levels of immune cells. Consistent expression patterns of ITGB1 and NOTCH2 were validated across additional GEO datasets. RT-qPCR confirmed the downregulation of HSPA8 and the upregulation of NR3C1 and NOTCH2 in GDM. Single-cell analysis corroborated cell-type-specific expression within the placenta. This study elucidates potential molecular links between BPA exposure and GDM, highlighting immune-metabolic dysregulation. The identified core genes may serve as biomarkers or therapeutic targets, thereby advancing precision environmental health strategies for pregnancy.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Society for Reproductive Investigation.
Ischemic stroke (IS) is a cerebrovascular disease with high mortality and disability rates, currently lacking effective therapeutic targets. The STING inhibitor SN-011 shows potential in IS treatment, but its mechanism of action remains unclear. This study aims to explore the key molecular mechanisms of SN-011 in treating IS through bioinformatics approaches. IS transcriptome datasets were analyzed to identify differentially expressed genes. Mendelian randomization using brain eQTL and IS-GWAS data identified genes with causal relationships to IS. Single-cell transcriptome, pseudo-time trajectory, intercellular communication, and transcription factor regulatory network analyzes were performed. Molecular docking and DARTS-WB assay validated SN-011 binding to transcription factors. Transcriptomic analysis identified 77 intersecting genes. Mendelian randomization revealed ADGRE5 as a protective gene for IS (OR < 1), significantly downregulated in venous endothelial cells (vECs) during disease progression. Cell communication analysis showed ADGRE5-high vECs interact with immune, glial, and stromal cells via LAMININ (Lamb2-CD44, Lamb2-Itga6+Itgb1, Lamb2-Dag1 pair) and JAM signaling pathways. Transcription factor analysis identified JUNB as a negative regulator of ADGRE5. Molecular docking (-6.8 kcal/mol) combined with an in vitro DARTS-WB assay confirmed the interaction between SN-011 and JUNB. In OGD-induced endothelial cell injury models, SN-011 suppressed JUNB expression, restored ADGRE5 expression inhibited by JUNB overexpression, reversed the downregulation of LAMB2 and CD44, and reduced the expression of the pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-6 and IL-1β. Notably, blockade of LAMB2 largely abolished these protective effects, indicating that the anti-inflammatory and endothelial-protective activities of SN-011 are mediated, at least in part, through restoration of the LAMB2-CD44 signaling axis. ADGRE5 downregulation in vECs may impair vascular repair by disrupting LAMININ-mediated intercellular communication. SN-011 may exert neuroprotective effects by targeting JUNB to upregulate ADGRE5 expression and restore the vEC-centered cellular communication network, providing a theoretical basis for SN-011 as a potential IS therapeutic.© 2026 The Author(s). Chemical Biology & Drug Design published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
While protein A has become a reliable platform for purifying antibodies, an analogous universal purification method for native non-antibody therapeutics has yet to be widely implemented. Downstream processing of recombinant proteins that require a solubility-enhancing domain (SED) for acceptable expression in E. coli are additionally complicated by required proteolytic cleavage for SED removal. This work demonstrates that the Nostoc punctiforme (Npu) DnaE split intein platform can be used for simultaneous purification and SED removal for challenging target proteins. Targets selected for this work include human fibroblast growth factor-2, interleukin-2, and an anti-CTLA-4 nanobody. Each target exhibits improved soluble expression with a solubility-enhancing domain at the N-terminus of the split intein tag, which is fused directly to the N-terminus of the target. Each target was scaled up and purified via FPLC for characterization and activity assays. SUMO-NpuC-FGF-2, MBP-NpuC-IL-2, and SUMO-NpuC-nCTLA4, show at least ≥75% solubility with their respective fusion partners, and could be recovered at up to 98% purity with at least 98% DNA clearance over a single intein column. A single-point mutation in the intein tag was used to further improve the intein cleavage rate for previously difficult target proteins, thereby increasing the appeal of this approach. Activity assays performed on FGF-2 and nCTLA-4 show that this process produces not only highly pure, but also biologically active protein. These results demonstrate a streamlined downstream processing of SED-dependent proteins and also support the potential of intein-mediated purification beyond the discovery phase.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Spent mammalian cell culture media are commonly discarded despite having residual nutrients that could be repurposed for microbial biomanufacturing. Fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2) is a major cost contributor in serum-free cell culture media, motivating the development of economical production strategies. Here, we investigated the use of fortified spent cell culture media for FGF2 production using Lactococcus lactis, a GRAS microorganism, and integrated statistical optimization, kinetic modeling, and continuous bioprocessing. A Box-Behnken design identified 10 g/L glucose, 35 °C cultivation temperature, and 100 ng/mL nisin as optimal conditions for enhancing intracellular and secreted FGF2 production. Subsequently, kinetic model comprising of ordinary differential equations was developed to describe temporal profiles of intracellular & secreted FGF2, glucose, lactate, and biomass. The model integrated Monod-type kinetics for growth and substrate consumption, and Luedeking-Piret kinetics to account for FGF2 production. Leveraging this model, we demonstrated that model could guide selection of dilution rate to maximize FGF2 production. To advance toward continuous manufacturing, chemostat cultivation was coupled with depth and crossflow filtration to enable real-time cell separation and FGF2 concentration. The concentrated FGF2 demonstrated comparable bioactivity to commercial FGF2 in proliferating Anguilla japonica (Japanese eel) pre-adipocytic cells. Overall, our study demonstrated utilization of design of experiments (DoE) alongside kinetic modelling to optimize bioprocess conditions, achieving FGF2 production of 16 mg/L and 396 µg/L titres for intracellular and secreted forms, respectively. The circular bioprocess, use of predictive modelling and integration of continuous upstream-downstream operation provides an opportunity for growth factor manufacturing from L. lactis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) is crucial for visual function, and its dysfunction contributes to retinal diseases such as age-related macular degeneration. Despite the translational potential of iPSC-derived RPE (iPSC-RPE) in cell replacement therapy, the functional visual gains achieved to date are modest. A key challenge is that the molecular and epigenomic signatures underlying functional RPE are yet to be fully elucidated. By integrating multiomics data, we systematically benchmarked the 3D epigenomic landscapes of primary human RPE (hRPE), iPSC-RPE, and the immortalized ARPE-19 cell line. Our analysis reveals that iPSC-RPE exhibits a mixed molecular state. iPSC-RPE recapitulates hRPE-like transcription and chromatin looping, but its histone modification states remain incompletely matured, and its chromatin accessibility and higher-order chromatin organization do not fully converge to hRPE. Furthermore, we found that hRPE exhibits strong extracellular matrix (ECM) organization driven by enhancer-mediated long-range chromatin interactions and enriched RUNX1 motifs, while iPSC-RPE retains key developmental-related transcriptional signatures, marked by factors such as HAND1, OTX2, and PAX6. These findings establish a multiomics benchmark for RPE maturity, pinpoint key regulatory nodes like ECM organization and RUNX1 for therapeutic targeting, and provide a roadmap for optimizing differentiation protocols and scaffold design in retinal regenerative medicine.
Chronic stress contributes to hippocampal neuronal apoptosis and neural circuit dysfunction in major depressive disorder (MDD), but the epitranscriptomic mechanisms regulating stress-responsive microRNAs remain unclear. This study investigated whether methyltransferase-like 3 (METTL3)-mediated N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification promotes miR-140-3p maturation and neuronal apoptosis through the OTX2/Wnt/β-catenin axis under chronic stress.A chronic unpredictable mild stress rat model and a corticosterone-induced primary hippocampal neuron injury model were established. Behavioral assays, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) staining, flow cytometry, western blotting, qRT-PCR, proteomic and transcriptomic analyses, methylated RNA immunoprecipitation (MeRIP), DiGeorge syndrome critical region gene 8 (DGCR8) RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP), and dual-luciferase reporter assays were performed. Serum miR-140-3p expression was also assessed in patients with MDD and healthy controls. miR-140-3p was upregulated in the hippocampus of stressed rats and in the serum of patients with MDD. Hippocampal miR-140-3p knockdown alleviated depressive-like behaviors and reduced neuronal apoptosis, whereas miR-140-3p inhibition protected primary hippocampal neurons from corticosterone-induced apoptosis. Mechanistically, chronic stress increased METTL3 expression and global m6A levels. METTL3 enhanced m6A modification of pri-miR-140-3p, promoted DGCR8-dependent processing, and increased mature miR-140-3p expression. miR-140-3p directly targeted OTX2 and modulated Wnt/β-catenin signaling, while OTX2 silencing attenuated the antiapoptotic effect of miR-140-3p inhibition.METTL3-dependent m6A maturation of miR-140-3p may contribute to stress-induced hippocampal neuronal apoptosis through the OTX2/Wnt/β-catenin axis, providing potential molecular targets for further investigation in MDD.© 2026. The Author(s).
NRXN1 (2p16.3) is essential for synaptic function and has been implicated in autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and other neurodevelopmental disorders. However, the phenotypic features associated with NRXN1 copy number variants remains incompletely characterised, which complicates risk assessment in genetic counselling. This case series describes five children, who were evaluated at the Genetics and Developmental Pediatrics Clinic of a tertiary care hospital in Muscat, Oman, from 2011 to 2023, with rare NRXN1 deletions (57-150 kb). All met DSM-5 criteria for ASD and had speech and language delays with cognitive impairment. Consanguinity was reported in three of the families and two had a family history of ASD. Microcephaly was present in four children and one showed facial dysmorphism. Generalised tonic-clonic seizures were present in one child and one child had comorbid attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. These findings illustrate clinical heterogeneity among children with NRXN1 deletions and supports the need for larger studies to better define genotype-phenotype relationships.© The Author(s) 2026.
Corticosteroids are among the most highly prescribed drugs. Chronic treatment with corticosteroids causes osteopenia, as well as growth failure in children. Our goal was to identify serum biomarkers of prednisone-related perturbations of bone and/or cartilage metabolism associated with growth failure in children. We utilized longitudinal serum samples from a double-blind, placebo- and prednisone-controlled trial of vamorolone in 4 to < 7 years children with Duchenne muscular dystrophy assayed by proteomic methods. Vamorolone is a recently approved bone-sparing corticosteroid that has been shown to have similar efficacy as prednisone but does not cause growth failure. The study included a 24-week Period 1 (placebo, prednisone [0.75 mg/kg/day], vamorolone [6 mg/kg/day]), and a 24-week Period 2 where placebo and vamorolone groups crossed over to vamorolone. Clinical laboratory measures of ALP, osteocalcin, P1NP, and CTX1 showed significant reductions with prednisone, but were unchanged by vamorolone treatment or placebo. Proteomics studies of serum proteins reduced by prednisone, but not vamorolone or placebo, identified 10 proteins where mutations in the corresponding genes are known to cause genetic disorders of cartilage and/or bone (collagens [COL2A1, Chondrocalcin, COL6A1, COL9A1, COL10A1, COL11A2], aggrecan core protein [ACAN], biglycan [BGN], osteopetrosis-associated transmembrane protein 1 [OSTM1], and noggin [NOG]). On transitioning from prednisone to vamorolone, all 10 biomarkers returned to baseline levels. Non-human (animal) studies have shown that traditional corticosteroids cause apoptosis of terminal hypertrophic chondrocytes associated with growth failure. Our clinical trial studies suggest that the 10 novel, corticosteroid-related biomarkers likely reflect the induction of apoptosis in terminal hypertrophic chondrocytes and osteoblasts by traditional corticosteroids. Vamorolone may spare chondrocytes and osteoblasts from this apoptosis, consistent with maintenance of normal growth in vamorolone-treated children.Trial registration The clinical trial registration (clinicaltrials.gov) is NCT03439670 ( https://www.clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03439670 ).© 2026. The Author(s).
MicroRNA-148a (miR-148a) has been implicated in various neurological disorders, yet its specific function within the central nervous system remains elusive. In this study, conditional astrocyte-specific miR-148a knockout (cKO) and overexpression (KI) mouse models were established using CRISPR-Cas9 and Cre-loxP technology to elucidate its role in emotional and cognitive regulation. Behavioral analyses demonstrated that miR-148a overexpression induced marked anxiety- and depression-like behaviors, accompanied by astrocyte activation, neuronal ultrastructural damage, and disrupted synaptic morphology. Conversely, miR-148a deletion preserved neuronal integrity, improved synaptic architecture, and produced anxiolytic and antidepressant phenotypes with enhanced cognitive performance. Transcriptomic profiling identified the transcription factor Otx2 as a direct target of miR-148a, mediating downstream modulation of dopaminergic signaling and neurodevelopmental genes. Integrative metabolomic analysis further revealed coordinated alterations in neuroendocrine and neurotransmitter-associated metabolic pathways. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that miR-148a critically modulates astrocyte-neuron interactions and dopaminergic homeostasis through the OTX2 axis, contributing to mood and cognitive disturbances. This work provides mechanistic insight into miR-148a-mediated neuroregulation and highlights its potential as a therapeutic target for affective and cognitive disorders.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Non-syndromic cleft palate only (NSCPO) is a distinct clinical and etiological entity within the spectrum of orofacial clefts. While genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified numerous risk loci for nonsyndromic cleft lip with or without cleft palate (NSCL/P), the genetic architecture of NSCPO remains less understood, particularly in the Japanese population. This study aimed to investigate the association of three candidate genes, VAX1, MAFB, and NOG, with NSCPO risk. A case-control study was carried out involving 65 Japanese NSCPO patients and 119 ethnically matched healthy controls. Three single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), rs7078160 (VAX1), rs13041247 (MAFB), and rs227731 (NOG), were selected based on previous GWAS and minor allele frequency. Statistical associations were evaluated using chi-squared or Fisher's exact tests. The VAX1 rs7078160 polymorphism showed a significant association with NSCPO under a recessive model (OR = 2.10, 95% CI = 1.05-4.22, p = 0.034), with the AA genotype showing a higher risk. No significant associations were found for MAFB rs13041247 or NOG rs227731 (p > 0.05). Our findings identify VAX1 rs7078160 as a potential risk factor for NSCPO in the Japanese population. These results show the need for larger studies to further explain the molecular pathways of NSCPO.© 2026 Japanese Teratology Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42511584 is a review article
Pigment dispersion syndrome and pigmentary glaucoma are important causes of ocular hypertension and glaucomatous optic neuropathy, yet their genetic determinants remain incompletely defined, particularly across diverse ancestries. This study aimed to use a large multi-ancestry cohort from the All of Us Research Program to investigate the genetic basis of pigment dispersion syndrome and pigmentary glaucoma.Case-control study.572 cases and 37,808 controls with array genotyping and 537 cases and 35,493 controls with whole genome sequencing.Using electronic health record phenotyping in the All of Us Research Program, we performed multi-ancestry genome-wide association analyses using both array-based data and whole genome sequencing-based data comparing patients with pigment dispersion syndrome or pigmentary glaucoma to those without either condition. We also performed Firth penalized regression and Fisher analyses, and we performed principal component analyses to assess effect sizes across genetic ancestries. We applied statistical fine-mapping, examined for cross-trait overlap, and assessed expression quantitative trait locus associations for lead variants.P-values and odds ratios of lead loci from genome-wide association analyses; size of credible sets determined from fine-mapping; allele frequency of lead variants in cases, controls, and the general population; expression quantitative trait locus effect size and p-values linking lead variants to gene expression.We identified four loci reaching genome-wide significance across analyses, including signals near EPHA7 (which mediates cell-cell signaling), within TYR (involved in melanin synthesis and replicated from prior studies), within LINC01138, and near OTX2. Statistical fine-mapping refined three of these loci to single-variant 95% credible sets and narrowed the TYR locus to small credible sets, prioritizing possible causal variants. Effect estimates were broadly consistent across genetic ancestry clusters. Lead variants showed regulatory evidence in expression quantitative trait locus, including reduced EPHA7 expression.These findings implicate both melanogenesis and cell-cell adhesion and signaling pathways in pigment dispersion syndrome and pigmentary glaucoma.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Microarray and Next Generation Sequencing studies offer insight into gene regulation in Parkinson's disease (PD). However, analysing vast numbers of genes can make the interpretation of data difficult when considering the platforms and techniques used across different studies. In this study, transcript expression, restricted to genes related to G-protein coupled receptors, activating agonists, agonist precursors, synthesis enzymes and transduction processes, as well as stress-related chaperones and solute carriers, was assessed across nine microarray platforms and two RNAseq studies of the substantia nigra (nigral volume). Changes in gene expression associated with PD were assessed by differential expression analysis while RNAseq studies were also used to calculate transcript per million values for each of the genes within the nigral volume. This analysis showed extensive changes in nigral volume signalling for several robustly expressed signal-related transcripts including tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), WNT signalling components (SFRP1, RSPO2 and DKK3), Kallikrein Related Peptidase 6 (KLK6), neurexins (NRXN1, NRXN3), prostaglandin synthases (PTGES2, PTGES3) and fractalkine (CX3CL1). The nigral volume signalling ligand data was then cross-referenced to the most abundant G-protein coupled receptor and signal transduction transcripts in the pigmented neurons using two RNAseq and two microarray studies. There were 32 significant changes in G-protein coupled receptor and associated signalling genes in pigmented neurons from PD tissue. Of these, 30 genes were upregulated. Analysis of the transcription factors likely regulating the 30 upregulated genes indicates a stimulation of cell stress pathways, particularly the JNK-MAP kinase pathway. Following this pathway back to changes in nigral signalling transcripts indicates that deficits in at least two autocrine/paracrine signalling systems; dopamine, via Gαo-coupled dopamine D2 receptors and Dickkopf-3 (DKK3) appear likely to contribute to pigmented neuron stress in PD.Copyright: © 2026 John M. Haynes. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
The amino acid sequence requirements that instruct the modification of proteins with chondroitin sulfate (CS) have been unknown, precluding predictions or opportunities for precise protein engineering. This study identified an essential amino acid motif for CS addition, the "CS-sequon" (EDQDDKDGGDFSGWGG), by comparing the secreted sulfatases SULF1 and SULF2, where only SULF2 is CS-modified. A cluster of seven amino acids plus a nearby tryptophan are critical for CS attachment; inserting the CS-sequon into SULF1 enabled it to gain CS modification. This sequon recruits the activity of the CS-initiating xylosyltransferase to the peptide modification site and CS addition enhances SULF1/2 extracellular abundance and enzymatic activity. These findings were validated across human and non-human cells and in Drosophila, providing a foundational resource for engineering CS modifications into proteins.
Background: Benzo[a]pyrene (BaP), a common food contaminant, is a recognized gastric carcinogen. This study aimed to identify therapeutic targets and repurposed drugs for gastric cancer (GC) using BaP as a network toxicology query. Methods: An integrated strategy combining network toxicology, multi-omics, machine learning (Random Forest, LASSO, SVM-RFE), and experimental validation was applied. Results: By intersecting GC-associated genes with BaP-related targets and machine learning, we identified three hub genes. The logistic regression model further revealed KCNE2 as a protective factor (OR = 0.515, 95% CI: 0.383-0.692), while SULF1 (OR = 2.940, 95% CI: 1.399-6.179) and TIMP1 (OR = 5.351, 95% CI: 2.020-16.743) were identified as potential risk factors. Survival analysis confirmed their prognostic significance. Single-cell transcriptomics descriptively showed TIMP1 and SULF1 enrichment in malignant/stromal cells and fibroblasts, respectively, whereas KCNE2 was restricted to normal epithelial cells and silenced in tumors. GSVA implicated epigenetic regulation, ECM remodeling, and TGF-β signaling. Molecular docking and dynamics simulations suggested that BaP can form stable complexes with DNMT1 and DNMT3A. Accordingly, drug enrichment analysis identified DNMT inhibitor 5-azacytidine as a top candidate. Cellular experiments confirmed that 5-azacytidine selectively inhibited GC cells and was associated with modulation of the DNMT3A-KCNE2 axis. Conclusions: Our findings provide a novel molecular target and a repurposed drug for GC from the perspective of a food contaminant.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42417108 is a review article
Host genetic susceptibility to urogenital Chlamydia trachomatis (Ct) reinfection remains poorly understood. Coding variants identified in prior genome-wide association studies (GWAS) explained only a small fraction of the risk of reinfection. Our goal in this study was to characterize whether more risk would be captured by sequence variation that traditional GWAS insufficiently captures. Specifically, we evaluated the risk attributable to SNPs present in regulatory, non-coding regions; post-transcriptional regulation by microRNAs (miRNAs) that may depend on sequence variation in either the miRNA or the target mRNA; and copy number variants (CNVs). We analyzed GWAS data from African American women with or without documented urogenital Ct reinfection. Fine mapping and independent association analyses identified 30 unique index single-nucleotide polymorphisms (iSNPs), which were expanded to variants in linkage disequilibrium. Regulatory annotation was performed using HaploReg, RegulomeDB, FORGEdb, rSNPBase, and GTEx. We examined whether genes identified in the Ct reinfection GWAS are targeted by known Ct infection-associated microRNAs using curated databases. Genome-wide CNV calling was conducted using SNP intensity data, followed by stringent quality control and gene-level association testing. Functional annotation prioritized 7 SNPs with strong regulatory evidence, with stringent criteria for regulatory relevance, using HaploReg, RegulomeDB, FORGEdb, and rSNPBase. The strongest signals were observed at the CHIT1 locus, where multiple intronic variants (including rs2486963 and rs2244385) overlapped regulatory chromatin, altered transcription factor binding motifs, and acted as cis-expression quantitative trait loci for CHIT1 in whole blood. Additional regulatory variants were identified near TDRP, ERICH1, and DLGAP1, showing tissue-specific regulatory effects. MicroRNA analysis revealed extensive post-transcriptional targeting of SOCS6 and SULF1, while CHIT1 showed no curated Ct-associated miRNA interactions. CNV analysis identified 5775 high-confidence events, with nominal gene-level associations observed for ATAD3A, CARD14, TMEM240, and ZNF140. These results indicate that a greater fraction of the susceptibility to urogenital Ct reinfection may be driven by genetic variation affecting immune and epithelial pathways rather than protein-coding changes.
Long-term survival of lung transplant recipients remains limited by chronic lung allograft dysfunction (CLAD). CLAD is only diagnosed following a persistent and substantial decline in lung function, after which irreversible damage to the lungs has occurred, limiting opportunities to effectively intervene at an early stage. There is a critical need for earlier detection prior to its clinical manifestation. The immunological drivers of CLAD remain unclear, limiting the development of predictive biomarkers and new therapies.In this hypothesis-generating, prospective cohort study, we profiled the microbial, metabolic, lipidomic, and gene expression dynamics of longitudinally collected broncho-alveolar lavages (BALs) from 56 CLAD-free lung transplant recipients up to 30 months post-transplant, and compared BALs from 13 CLAD-free patients to BALs from 13 patients who developed CLAD. In CLAD-free patients, the first 6 months post-transplant were hallmarked by diminished microbial diversity and increased abundance of Staphylococcus and Candida, coupled with upregulated innate and adaptive immune responses, and elevated nitric oxide metabolism (FDR < 0.05). This was superseded by homeostatic tissue repair and by the reactivation of T-cell genes such as CD3, GZMA, IL2RB, CD28, CD40LG, and LCK, after tapering of maintenance immunosuppression (FDR < 0.05). In patients who developed CLAD, disease onset was preceded by the increased abundance of sphingolipids and the upregulation of glycocalyx and immune cell recruitment genes such as HAPLN3, HS3ST3B1, SULF2, CHST2, CSGALNACT1, CXCR1, CSF3R, SELL, CXCL2, and CEACAM1 (FDR < 0.05), suggesting increased vascular dysfunction and immune cell graft infiltration prior to CLAD onset. Scoring against a publicly available lung single-cell dataset showed our bulk gene transcriptomics signature to be expressed by monocytes, endothelial, and T cells. In contrast to CLAD-free patients, this signature persisted after 1.5 months post-transplant and increased in intensity upon the start of lung function decline. Multi-omics integration highlighted sphingolipid molecules and genes involved in immune cell recruitment and endothelial function as candidate biomarkers associated with the onset of CLAD. This study is limited by its small sample size.We have identified immunological processes, metabolites, lipids, and genes associated with the onset of CLAD. Our findings are to be considered associative and not aimed at establishing causality. Future studies employing a targeted approach in independent validation cohorts, using, for example, quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and targeted mass-spectrometry, will be required to confirm these findings.Copyright: © 2026 Iacono et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (iCCA), the second most common subtype of primary liver cancer around the world, is an aggressive neoplasm with high metastastic potential, which leads to a low rate of curative resections and dismal prognosis. In previous studies, Sulfatase 2 (SULF2) has been reported to regulate various important oncogenic signaling pathways and promote iCCA progression. Further research is needed to explore the role of SULF2 in iCCA metastasis. In this study, we verified the overexpression of SULF2 in iCCA tissues and its positive correlation with advanced stage and poor prognosis. Trans-well migration and invasion assay and mouse models explored the impact of SULF2 on iCCA metastasis in vitro and in vivo. We also demonstrated that SULF2 facilitated iCCA metastasis through upregulating CXCR4 transcription mediated by the transcription factor YBX1. Moreover, SULF2 could recruit USP7 to interact with YBX1 and inhibit Lys48-polyubiquitination of YBX1, stabilizing YBX1 and promoting a functional YBX1/CXCR4 axis. Combining SULF2 monoclonal antibody with SU056 had a synergistic effect in suppressing iCCA progression and metastasis of mouse models. In conclusion, SULF2 promotes iCCA progression and metastasis through an intracellular SULF2-YBX1-CXCR4 axis, and SULF2 monoclonal antibody combined with YBX1 inhibitor SU056 may be a potentially promising treatment strategy for iCCA.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
Chronic wounds in the elderly are characterized by persistent inflammation and excessive extracellular matrix (ECM) degradation, which form a self-perpetuating vicious cycle that impedes healing and increases morbidity. Here, we identify sulfated chitosan (SCS) as an a synthetic glycosaminoglycan capable of disrupting this pathological "ECM degradation-immune imbalance" cycle and promoting robust skin wound repair in aged mice. SCS activates JAK2-STAT3/STAT6 signaling to rebalance M1/M2 macrophage polarization, while simultaneously enhancing phosphoadenosine phosphosulfate (PAPS) production and sulfonate-group trafficking. These coordinated actions collectively improved collagen deposition, angiogenesis, and glycosaminoglycan (GAG) content within the wound microenvironment. Using Sulf2 knockdown and overexpression models, we further show that chitosan-anchored sulfonate groups are required for driving macrophages toward an M2 phenotype, whereas free sulfonate groups facilitate glycosaminoglycan biosynthesis. These coordinated immune and matrix effects lead to enhanced collagen organization, angiogenesis, and glycosaminoglycan deposition within the aged wound microenvironment.Together, this work establishes SCS as a materials-driven immune-ECM reprogramming strategy and highlights its translational potential for the treatment of age-associated chronic wounds.© 2026 The Authors.
Sulfatase 2 (SULF2) is an extracellular enzyme involved in the modulation of multiple oncogenic signaling pathways and has been implicated in tumor progression across several malignancies. However, its prognostic significance in surgically resected non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) remains incompletely defined.SULF2 expression was evaluated by immunohistochemistry in tumor specimens from patients with stage I-III NSCLC who underwent curative-intent surgical resection between 2009 and 2016. Expression levels were quantified using an H-score-based system and categorized as low or high. Associations between SULF2 expression, clinicopathological characteristics, and survival outcomes, including overall survival (OS) and disease-free survival (DFS), were analyzed using Kaplan-Meier estimates and Cox proportional hazards models. Eighty-three patients were included, of whom 65 (78.3%) were male; 42.2% had stage I disease, 32.5% stage II, and 25.3% stage III.SULF2 expression was detected in 94.0% of tumors, with 43 patients (51.8%) classified as high and 40 (48.2%) as low expression based on H-score. Overall survival and DFS did not differ significantly between SULF2-low and SULF2-high groups (log-rank p = 0.213 and p = 0.660, respectively). Median OS was 113.2 months (95% CI: 84.0-142.4) in the SULF2-low group and 54.9 months (95% CI: 39.4-186.9) in the SULF2-high group, while median DFS was 88.3 months (95% CI: 46.5-130.2) and 53.3 months, respectively, with numerically shorter survival in the SULF2-high group. Subgroup analyses stratified by pathological stage and histological subtype revealed no significant associations between SULF2 expression and survival outcomes. In multivariate analysis, SULF2 expression was not independently associated with either OS or DFS.SULF2 expression was highly prevalent in surgically resected NSCLC; although higher expression showed numerically poorer survival, this difference did not reach statistical significance.
Patient-derived xenograft (PDX) models are widely regarded as robust preclinical platforms because they preserve the histopathological and molecular features of primary tumors. In this study, we established twenty triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) PDX models using freshly resected patient tumors, including ten with high DSTYK expression and ten with low DSTYK expression. Tumor fragments were orthotopically implanted into the fourth mammary fat pads of NSG mice. DSTYK expression was validated by immunohistochemistry and western blotting. Histological evaluation across three serial passages demonstrated that PDX tumors retained the cellular morphology, stromal architecture, and lineage characteristics of their corresponding primary tumors. Using these models, we assessed in vivo responses to combination chemotherapy with doxorubicin and docetaxel. DSTYK-low PDX tumors exhibited significantly greater chemosensitivity, whereas DSTYK-high tumors showed marked resistance, indicating a critical role for DSTYK in mediating chemotherapy resistance. Consistent with these findings, analyses from The Human Protein Atlas and Kaplan-Meier Plotter databases revealed that high DSTYK expression is associated with poor survival outcomes in TNBC patients. Collectively, our results from clinical specimens, PDX models, and public datasets identify DSTYK as a promising prognostic biomarker and predictor of chemotherapeutic response in TNBC, with potential implications for patient stratification and treatment optimization.
The progression of colorectal cancer (CRC) is profoundly influenced by the tumor microenvironment (TME). However, the spatial functional specialization of cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) in driving malignancy and immune evasion remains poorly defined. This study aims to delineate the spatial and functional heterogeneity of specific CAF subpopulations in CRC.We performed single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) on CRC tissues and integrated public datasets to map the stromal landscape. Key cellular interactions inferred from scRNA-seq were validated using high-resolution Xenium in situ transcriptomics and further corroborated by public spatial transcriptomics (ST) data and immunohistochemistry (IHC).ScRNA-seq identified two distinct, tumor-enriched CAF subpopulations: INHBA+ SULF1+ CAFs, associated with an epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) signature, and INHBA+ BNIP3+ CAFs, which exhibited an immunoregulatory phenotype. Xenium spatial mapping localized these transcriptional identities to spatially segregated populations of INHBA+ myofibroblastic CAFs (myCAFs) and INHBA+ inflammatory CAFs (iCAFs), respectively. Both subsets localized to 'Invasive Tumor-Enriched Regions' alongside EMT+ malignant epithelial cells. Spatial analysis further revealed that INHBA+ myCAFs frequently clustered adjacent to SPP1+ macrophages, whereas INHBA+ iCAFs resided within specialized immunosuppressive niches. Orthogonal validation using ST and IHC confirmed that INHBA+ SULF1+ CAFs directly colocalized with the Malignant C2 (characterized by an EMT signature), while INHBA+ BNIP3+ CAFs were closely associated with CD4+ regulatory T cells (Tregs). These findings suggest that two spatially and functionally distinct INHBA+ CAF lineages coexist: one orchestrating EMT-driven invasion and the other fostering local immunosuppression via Treg recruitment.Our study reveals a spatial division of labor among CAFs in CRC. The conserved expression of INHBA across both pro-tumorigenic lineages positions it as a central stromal regulator and a promising therapeutic target for simultaneously disrupting tumor invasion and immune evasion. These findings highlight the potential of stroma-targeted strategies in advancing CRC treatment.© 2026. The Author(s).
Lung squamous cell carcinoma (LUSC) is a difficult cancer to treat, with few targeted therapies to improve its poor prognosis. The goal of this study was to use a drug repurposing strategy to evaluate and compare drug sensitivities using 2D adherent and 3D spheroid models of NCI-H2170 LUSC cells. Both 2D adherent and 3D spheroid models were used to grow NCI-H2170 lung squamous cell carcinoma cells and evaluate their sensitivity to a large library of food and drug administration (FDA)-approved drugs, including many not typically used as anti-cancer agents. Cell death was assessed in the 2D adherent models, and for the top drugs half maximal effective concentration (EC50) values were determined. For the 3D spheroid models, drugs reducing spheroid size after 4 days of treatment were identified. There were 263 drugs that reduced the cell viability to <20% when cells were grown in 2D in 10 µM drug. When grown in 3D the cells were generally more drug resistant, with 87 drugs capable of reducing spheroid volume when grown over 4 days in 10 µM drug. Interestingly, 60 drugs proved effective in both model systems including many drugs that typically associated with anti-cancer properties. Of these 60, four were further found to have selective effects towards metastatic NCI-H2170 cells as compared to a much less metastatic matched cell line expressing the metastasis suppressor CREB3L1, in both 2D and 3D model systems. These included the hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha (HIF-1α inhibitor 2-methoxyestradiol, and three anti-infection agents (cetylpyridinium chloride, chlorhexidine-2HCl, zinc pyrithione).These results suggest that the HIF-1α inhibitor 2-methoxyestradiol, and three anti-infection agents (cetylpyridinium chloride, chlorhexidine-2HCl, zinc pyrithione) may be effective for metastatic LUSCs.Copyright: © 2026 Mellor et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Low-grade fibromyxoid sarcoma (LGFMS) is a rare, slow-growing deceptively bland-looking fibroblastic sarcoma that usually develops in the deep soft tissues of the extremities. Development of the tumor in the abdomen, pelvis, and retroperitoneum is extremely rare. We analyzed 26 cases of LGFMS originating at these sites. The patients age ranged from 5 to 75 years (median, 39) with a slight female predominance (54%). Most tumors were located in the abdominal wall/abdomen or peritoneal tissues (n = 11; 42%), followed by the intestinal wall/mesentery (n = 7; 27%), pelvis (n = 4; 15%), retroperitoneum (n = 3; 11%) and the perirectal perineum (n = 1; 4%). Median tumor size was 10 cm (range, 1.9-68). Histologically, tumors were characterized by spindle cells with mild-to-moderate nuclear atypia arranged into short fascicles and whorling pattern within alternating variably myxoid to collagenous stroma rich in arcuate vessels with perivascular hyalinization. Eight tumors (31%) showed areas of sclerosing epithelioid fibrosarcoma (SEF), hence qualifying as hybrid LGFMS/SEF. Large collagen rosettes were observed in 8 tumors (31%). All 26 tumors (100%) were immunohistochemically diffusely positive for MUC4. FUS or EWSR1 gene rearrangements were identified in 9 of 9 (100%) tumors tested. One of 17 tumors showed variable nuclear Betacatenin reactivity (this case harbored EWSR1::CREB3L1 fusion). Of 15 patients with follow-up data (range, 6-84 months; median, 28.5), 2 (13%) died of disease, 3 (20%) developed metastases, and 2 (13%) had local tumor recurrence. In total, 7 (47%) patients experienced disease progression. Eight (53%) patients were disease-free at 5-84 months follow-up (median, 45). LGFMSs at these rare sites are similar to their extremity counterparts but likely peruse a more aggressive clinical course with adverse events being noted in half of patients at a median follow-up of 45 months, suggesting a possibly more unfavorable outcome at long-term.© 2026. The Author(s).
Chemokine receptor type 7 (CCR7) is extensively implicated in the regulation of inflammatory signaling. Although CCR7 is frequently overexpressed in malignant epithelial cells, its immunomodulatory role in tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) and its contribution to oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) progression remain poorly defined. To investigate the functional relevance of CCR7 in TAMs, we establish a CCR7-deficient (Ccr7-/-) mouse model of OSCC. We find that loss of CCR7 in TAMs suppresses the malignant phenotype of OSCC cells and inhibits OSCC progression. We perform single-cell RNA sequencing to profile CCR7-dependent transcriptional changes in TAMs. This analysis identifies SPP1 as a key CCR7-regulated effector that promotes the malignant phenotype of OSCC cells. Consistent with this finding, in vitro assays confirm that TAM-derived SPP1 promotes the malignant phenotype of OSCC cells, whereas neutralization of SPP1 reverses OSCC progression. Mechanistically, CCR7 in TAMs regulates the transcription factor CREB3L1 via the PERK pathway, thus enhancing the expression of its downstream target gene SPP1. We further show that inhibition of the CCR7-CREB3L1 axis in TAMs significantly suppresses OSCC progression in vivo. These findings suggest that targeting the CCR7-CREB3L1 axis in TAMs may represent a promising therapeutic strategy for OSCC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skin fibrosis substantially contributes to morbidity and mortality. Fibrotic remodeling, characterized by accumulated and stiffened extracellular matrix, persistently exerts mechanical cues and consistently activates fibroblasts, implying biomechanics as a major driver of fibrosis. However, our understanding towards mechanisms of biomechanics induced fibrosis remained limited.Integrated single-cell sequencing analysis was performed to reveal the atlas of fibrotic skin. ChIP sequencing was performed to reveal the binding sites of CREB3L1. Nanoindenter was used to identify the mechanical properties. Gel contraction assay, wound healing assay, and live cell imaging were conducted to assess the behavior of fibroblasts cultured on hydrogels of different rigidities. Bleomycin induced and mechanical loading induced skin fibrosis models were established on CREB3L1 knockdown and control mice.We identified a mechanosensitive fibroblast cluster that exerts contraction and ECM deposition functions in fibrotic skin, and its transcriptional identity was maintained by CREB3L1. Elevated expression of CREB3L1 was confirmed in human and mouse fibrotic skin. Further analysis showed that CREB3L1 was required for fibroblast activation, including contraction, migration, and ECM accumulation. More importantly, we revealed that matrix stiffness could alter calcium homeostasis, causing calcium influx and endoplasmic reticulum stress. The ER stress state in turn triggered the cleavage of CREB3L1, releasing its luminal domain that function as a profibrotic transcription factor. Inhibiting CREB3L1 could alleviate skin fibrosis both in vivo and in vitro.This study elucidates the molecular mechanism of CREB3L1 mechanosensitive activation in matrix stiffness induced skin fibrosis, and presents a promising therapeutic target for clinical translation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) is a dynamic process during which cells lose their epithelial characteristics and acquire mesenchymal traits. In cancer, EMT is closely associated with tumor initiation, progression, invasion, metastasis, and therapy resistance. Rather than being a binary state switch, EMT encompasses a spectrum of tumor states with distinct functional properties. However, the transcription factors (TFs) that govern transitions between these EMT states remain poorly defined. Here, using multi-omic approaches combining single-cell RNA-seq and single-cell ATAC-seq, we delineate the transcriptomic and chromatin landscapes of distinct EMT states in a mouse model of skin squamous cell carcinoma (SCC). Through CRISPR/Cas9-mediated loss-of-function studies coupled with in vitro and in vivo functional assays, we identify TFs regulating specific EMT states. Klf5 and Pitx1 control the early stages of EMT and are essential for metastasis formation. In contrast, Nfatc1 and Creb3l1 act at later stages of EMT. Similar EMT states and regulatory patterns are found in mouse pancreatic adenocarcinoma and human cancers. Altogether, our study defines the transcriptional and chromatin landscape controlling EMT progression in mouse skin SCC, identifies EMT state-specific TFs and highlights their essential roles in regulating metastasis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Low-grade fibromyxoid sarcoma (LGFMS) is an uncommon soft tissue tumor that often masquerades as benign due to its deceptively mild histopathological appearance. Predominantly arising from the deep soft tissues of the extremities and trunk, LGFMS is exceptionally uncommon in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. While most documented cases have been found in the small intestine and colon, only one prior case has been reported in the stomach involving an elderly Japanese woman. In this report, we present a compelling case of gastric LGFMS in a 21-year-old female who experienced mild hematemesis and fatigue. An abdominal computed tomography scan unveiled an ill-defined, hypodense mass originating from the lesser curvature of the stomach and extending toward the left hepatic lobe-highlighting the complexity of this condition. Further investigation included an upper endoscopy and an incomplete laparoscopic resection of the tumor. Histopathological analysis revealed a proliferation of spindle cells with focal whorling within a heavily collagenized stroma, transitioning abruptly to a myxoid area, thus confirming a diagnosis of LGFMS. Immunohistochemical testing showed positive results for vimentin and BCL2. Crucially, molecular analysis identified the FUS-CREB3L1 fusion. Based on our search in the literature review, this case is considered a second instance reported in English literature.The Author(s). This is an open access article published by Thieme under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, permitting unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction so long as the original work is properly cited. ( https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ ).
Keloids are benign fibroproliferative skin lesions characterized by excessive collagen deposition and growth beyond the original wound margins. However, the cellular heterogeneity and molecular mechanisms underlying keloid pathogenesis remain incompletely understood. Publicly available single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data from keloid tissues of eight patients were obtained from the NCBI Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. High-dimensional weighted gene co-expression network analysis (hdWGCNA) was performed to identify disease-associated gene modules. Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis was performed using summary statistics from BioBank Japan to evaluate potential associations between gene expression and keloid susceptibility. ATAC-seq data were used to assess chromatin accessibility, and SCENIC analysis was performed to infer transcription factor regulon activity. Correlation analysis was then used to assess potential associations between candidate transcription factors and target genes. We analyzed 73,790 cells and identified nine major cell types. Fibroblasts showed substantial heterogeneity and were further classified into 6 subpopulations. Trajectory analysis suggested a differentiation continuum among disease-associated fibroblasts, and cell-cell communication analysis indicated that MSC-like fibroblasts may function as a signaling hub. hdWGCNA identified a turquoise co-expression module significantly enriched in MSC-like fibroblasts. MR analysis highlighted CLEC2B, MGST3, and SFRP2 as candidate genes potentially associated with keloids, and qRT-PCR validated their differential mRNA expression between normal dermal and keloid fibroblasts. ATAC-seq analysis identified 4,607 differentially accessible chromatin peaks. Integrated motif enrichment and SCENIC analyses identified CREB3L1 and ZEB1 as candidate transcription factors. Correlation analysis further suggested potential regulatory relationships between these transcription factors and the candidate genes. This study provides an integrative multi-omics characterization of cellular heterogeneity in keloids. It identifies CLEC2B, MGST3, and SFRP2 as key candidate genes, as well as CREB3L1 and ZEB1 as candidate transcription factors potentially involved in keloid pathogenesis. These findings improve our understanding of keloid biology and may provide a basis for future therapeutic research.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
This study explores programmed cell death (PCD)-related genes in osteosarcoma through bioinformatics and experimental validation.Analysis of datasets from the GEO and TCGA databases identified 5,327 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), among which 294 overlapped with PCD-related genes.LASSO regression analysis identified six hub genes, and five of these (CIB1, CREB3L1, IL6R, TGFβ2, and TNFRSF10C) were further validated in osteosarcoma tissues. Notably, CIB1 exhibited significantly elevated expression and was selected for in-depth analysis. CIB1 downregulation inhibited osteosarcoma cell proliferation and invasion by inducing apoptosis and causing G2/M phase cell cycle arrest, and was associated with increased p53 expression, decreased phosphorylation of Akt and STAT3, and altered BCL2/BAX ratios, suggesting involvement of these pathways in the observed effects.In vitro experiments confirmed the tumor-suppressive role of CIB1 inhibition. These findings highlight CIB1 as a promising therapeutic target for osteosarcoma treatment.© 2026. The Author(s).
The incidence of papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) has been rising. CD44 is involved in cell adhesion and migration, but the role of its genetic variation in PTC remains unclear.This study aimed to investigate the association of CD44 gene polymorphisms with PTC and to examine the interaction between CD44 and CREB3L1. This study enrolled 354 patients with PTC, and the genotype distribution of the CD44 polymorphism (rs9666607) was analyzed. Key PTC genes were screened using the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database (GSE33630). Gene Ontology (GO) functional enrichment and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analyses were performed on these key genes. CD44 expression was validated using TCGA database, ELISA, qRTPCR, Western blot, and IHC in patient tissues, PTC mouse model, and human cell lines. The direct interactive molecules were screened through a bioinformatics method.The GSE33630 dataset identified a total of 124 upregulated and 85 downregulated differentially expressed genes. Enrichment analysis revealed 12 key PTC genes, including CD44. TCGA database validation revealed that CD44 was significantly overexpressed in PTC patients. The rs9666607‑A allele was associated with an increased risk of PTC and lymph node metastasis under a dominant model. CD44 mRNA and protein levels were significantly higher in PTC tissues versus adjacent tissue and further elevated in metastatic cases. Bioinformatic analysis predicted CD44 interaction with the transcription factor CREB3L1, and this was confirmed by molecular docking. CREB3L1 expression was synchronously upregulated with CD44 in PTC.CD44 polymorphisms, particularly the rs9666607-A allele, are significantly associated with PTC risk and metastasis in the studied population. CD44 is overexpressed in PTC, and its interaction with CREB3L1 suggests a potential novel interaction in PTC pathogenesis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
The Golgi apparatus expands during differentiation and increased secretory demand, yet the transcriptional mechanisms governing its biogenesis remain poorly defined. To investigate this process, we developed an enzymatic approach to ablate preexisting Golgi and induce large-scale de novo organelle formation. Transcriptional profiling of cells rebuilding the Golgi revealed a coordinated induction of a broad gene network, coinciding with structural and functional maturation of the organelle. This network spans all Golgi subcompartments and activities, supporting the existence of a unified "Golgi regulon" that synchronizes expression of components required for organelle integrity. Failure to activate this regulon impaired Golgi reassembly. Promoter analysis and RNAi screening identified CREB3L1 as a central transcription factor for Golgi gene activation. Following Golgi loss, CREB3L1 translocates to the nucleus and activates its target genes, thereby driving biosynthesis of the components that are essential for organelle assembly. These findings demonstrate that Golgi biogenesis is governed by a coordinated transcriptional program that promotes organelle regeneration and enables secretory-pathway plasticity. This mechanism may support physiological remodeling by coupling Golgi biogenesis to cellular demand.© 2026. The Author(s).
Cryptorchidism, a major reproductive malformation in dogs, is associated with an increased risk of testicular cancer. In this study, we aimed to compare miRNA expression and 3'UTR length variation in the mRNAs of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between undescended (UD) and descended (D) canine testes without signs of tumorigenesis. In total, expression of 453 miRNA genes was detected, and over 100 miRNA DEGs were identified in the UD vs. D and UD vs. C (control) comparisons. Predicted target sequences for DEG miRNAs were in silico identified in numerous mRNAs, including 12 of 19 a priori selected genes related to testicular cancer. In silico analysis of miRNA and mRNA DEGs revealed that some of target mRNAs showed significant differences in UD and D/C testes and approximately 50% of miRNA-mRNA pairs exhibited an inverse expression pattern, including cancer-related genes (e.g., AR, IGF1R, KIT, KITLG, SALL4, and SPRY4). Analysis of the 3'UTR length of DEG mRNAs identified 962 transcripts with altered 3'UTR length in both the UD vs. D and UD vs. C comparisons. 3'UTR lengthening (e.g., in cancer-related genes such as LATS2, SRPK2, and AKT3) was the most common alteration observed. Our findings provide a new insight into molecular alterations associated with canine cryptorchidism. We suggest that in undescended canine testes without signs of tumorigenesis dysregulated expression of protein-coding genes, including candidate cancer-associated genes, can be associated with altered expression of specific miRNAs, as well as variations in the 3'UTR length of certain target DEG mRNAs.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42371299 is a review article
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42115759
Precision oncology relies on molecular biomarkers to stratify patients into responders and non-responders to a given treatment. Although gene expression profiles have historically been explored for biomarker discovery, fewer studies investigated single-gene expression biomarkers. Additionally, many approaches are limited to cancer type-specific associations, which constrain statistical power. To address these limitations, we developed a regression-based framework that corrects for tissue-specific biases and enhances detection of pan-cancer single-gene expression biomarkers of drug sensitivity in cancer cell line high-throughput drug screens. Our method maintains predictive performance post-correction, and successfully recovers established biomarkers, such as SLFN11 expression for DNA damaging agents. Notably, we identified SPRY4 and NES expression as biomarkers of sensitivity for compounds targeting ERK/MAPK signaling (adjusted p-value = 4.016 × 10 ⁻ ⁵ and 7.221 × 10 ⁻ ⁶, respectively). This approach offers a scalable strategy for biomarker discovery and holds potential for translation to more complex biological models and patient-derived datasets. Ultimately, pan-cancer single-gene expression biomarkers may inform patient stratification and warrant clinical validation in precision oncology.Copyright: © 2026 Kutkaite et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL) is a globally prevalent disorder caused by oxidative stress-mediated hair cell death, with no effective clinical treatments. This study explored the protective effect of luteolin (LL), a natural antioxidant flavonoid, against NIHL and its underlying molecular mechanism.In vivo, mice received intratympanic LL injections around noise exposure, followed by ABR testing and cochlear immunofluorescence staining. In vitro, cochlear explants and HEI-OC1 cells were pretreated with LL, followed by the induction of oxidative stress using tert-butyl hydroperoxide (TBHP). Cellular viability, oxidative stress, and apoptosis were assessed. CRISPR/Cas9 technique was used to establish an Early growth response 1 (EGR1) knockout cell line. ChIP-PCR and dual-luciferase reporter assays clarified molecular mechanisms.Intratympanic LL significantly attenuated noise-induced auditory threshold elevation and outer hair cell loss in mice without affecting normal hearing. In vitro, LL dose-dependently mitigated TBHP-induced damage via regulating oxidative stress and apoptotic pathways, reversed TBHP-induced EGR1 upregulation, EGR1 knockout enhanced oxidative stress resistance, and EGR1 directly regulated sprouty RTK signaling antagonist 4 (SPRY4) transcription, while LL inhibited TBHP-induced SPRY4 upregulation.Luteolin protects against NIHL by alleviating oxidative stress and suppressing apoptosis, with potential involvement of the EGR1/SPRY4 signaling axis, representing a promising candidate for NIHL prevention.© 2026 The Author(s). CNS Neuroscience & Therapeutics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Germ cell tumors (GCTs) are heterogeneous neoplasms arising from primordial germ cells. While genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified numerous susceptibility loci for adult testicular GCTs (TGCTs), the heritable basis of pediatric TGCT and GCTs that arise outside the testes remain poorly understood.We conducted a multi-ancestry GWAS of pediatric GCTs, including 1,927 cases from the Germ Cell Tumor Epidemiology Study (GaMETES) and 10,601 controls. Cases were diagnosed with testicular (n = 678), ovarian (n = 441), intracranial (n = 435), and extragonadal (n = 373) GCT between the ages of 0 to 19 years.We identified four loci reaching genome-wide significance, including variants near BAK1 (chr 6: rs3831846), SPRY4 (chr 5: rs12515244), DMRT1 (chr 9: rs10815910), and DEPTOR (chr 8: rs13277786). Additional genome-wide significant associations were identified in subgroup analyses, including six loci for intracranial GCTs (rs2758612 [PMF1/BGLAP], rs9854760 [PLCL2], rs6851498 [KIT], rs11816992 on chromosome 10, rs3830273 [TFAM], and rs13054014 [LZTR1]), one locus for testicular GCT (rs1907702 [KITLG]), and one locus for males (rs4610628 [MAD1L1]). After Bonferroni correction, 18 of 78 previously reported TGCT loci were significantly associated with GCT overall or in at least one subgroup with a particularly strong correlation between TGCT and iGCT effect estimates (rho = 0.63, P = 5.5x10-10). Expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL) analyses identified candidate genes in the regions identified on chromosome 6 (BAK1, LINC003366, and ITPR3) and chromosome 8 (DEPTOR and RP11-760H22.2).Our data support a role for germline genetic variation in the development of GCT in locations outside the testes and highlight shared genetic architecture across age group and tumor location.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Despite lacking a robust interferon response, pluripotent stem cells remain highly resistant to viral infection, in part through the constitutive expression of immune genes traditionally classified as interferon-stimulated genes. While interferon signaling has been shown to be incompatible with the maintenance of pluripotency, the molecular mechanisms underlying this relationship remain poorly understood. Here, we investigate the transcriptional response of human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) to infection with a potent activator of the interferon response, an influenza A virus mutant lacking the viral NS1 protein. Single-cell RNA sequencing revealed that while most hESCs remain unresponsive to infection, a distinct subpopulation expresses type I and III interferons. Notably, only interferon-expressing cells mounted a robust antiviral response, characterized by strong induction of interferon-stimulated genes. In contrast to the bulk hESC population, interferon responding cells exhibited reduced expression of core pluripotency factors as well as negative regulators of interferon signaling, such as SOCS1 and SPRY4. Depletion of SOCS1 enabled hESCs to respond robustly to interferon stimulation, showing that this negative regulator is a key suppressor of interferon signaling in pluripotent stem cells. We further show that SOCS1 and additional negative regulators of IFN signaling are intrinsically expressed in hESCs and are transcriptionally controlled by pluripotency factors, such as NANOG, SOX2 and OCT4. Together, our findings support a model in which pluripotency factors regulate intrinsic immune gene expression, including negative regulators of interferon signaling, thereby suppressing canonical interferon signaling to preserve pluripotency while maintaining antiviral resistance.
Mammalian spermatogonial stem cells (SSCs) sustain male fertility through continuous self-renewal and differentiation, leading to the production of haploid spermatozoa throughout adulthood. However, SSCs are vulnerable to genotoxic drugs, and patients receiving chemotherapy face a high risk of germline instability and infertility. The molecular mechanisms and cellular pathways that choreograph SSC recovery after chemotherapeutic insult remain unknown. Previously, we identified SPRY4 as an ERK-dependent negative feedback regulator of growth factor signaling that is critical for preservation of stem cell activity in cultured mouse SSCs. Here, we demonstrate that following alkylating agent busulfan (BU)-induced injury in adult mice, germline-specific Spry4 gene deletion (Spry4G-KO) reduces stem cell regeneration with an enhanced genotoxic stress response and differentiation with rapidly enhanced nuclear ERK1/2 activity in undifferentiated (Aundiff) spermatogonia (including SSCs). Genes essential for stem cell maintenance, including Id1 and Cxcl12, were dysregulated by loss of Spry4. Furthermore, the MEK1/2 inhibitor PD0325901, but not mTORC1 inhibitor rapamycin, was sufficient to promote spermatogonial proliferation in Spry4G-KO testis 10 days post-BU treatment. Notably, the restoration of both spermatogonia pool and fertility was delayed in adult Spry4G-KO males long-term after injury. In summary, germline-specific deletion of Spry4 results in hyper-activation of the MAPK/ERK pathway in Aundiff spermatogonia, reducing spermatogonial genome integrity, unleashing excessive spermatogenesis after germline damage, and ultimately impairing germline regeneration in adult males. Our study indicates an essential role for SPRY4-ERK signaling as a molecular checkpoint in securing SSC recovery upon chemotherapy drug-induced germline damage, revealing how stem cells normally withstand environmental stress.Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for the Study of Reproduction 2026.
Osteoarthritis (OA) involves progressive cartilage degradation, and the extracellular matrix (ECM) regulates chondrocyte behavior. In OA, ECM stiffening, driven by age-related matrix changes and mechanical joint injuries, contributes to cartilage damage. Although RhoA/ROCK and ERK1/2 signaling participate in cartilage remodeling, how these pathways interact across ECM stiffness conditions remains unclear.To clarify how ECM stiffness modulates chondrocyte catabolic/anabolic activity and cartilage degeneration by investigating crosstalk between the RhoA/ROCK and ERK1/2 pathways in vitro and in vivo.Controlled laboratory study.Chondrocytes were cultured under control conditions or on substrates with varying stiffness values (8, 12, and 25 kPa) and analyzed for viability, gene expression, and signaling activation. Stiffness effects on RhoA/ROCK and ERK1/2 were assessed by Western blotting, quantitative polymerase chain reaction, and immunofluorescence. In vivo, cartilage stiffening was induced by Ad-LOX in rabbits. RhoA/ROCK-ERK1/2 crosstalk was examined via SPRY-4 modulation and co-immunoprecipitation.At 25 kPa versus the gel-free control, CCK-8 assay revealed that chondrocyte viability was 0.5905 ± 0.0015 versus 1.0000 ± 0.0111 (P < .0001). Quantitative polymerase chain reaction showed that MMP-13 gene expression was 0.0200 ± 0.0015 versus 0.0109 ± 0.0017 (P = .0003), respectively, and ADAMTS-5 gene expression was 0.0439 ± 0.0033 versus 0.0100 ± 0.0012 (P < .0001), respectively, with the gene expression of COL2A1 and ACAN reduced to 0.0146 ± 0.0008 versus 0.0151 ± 0.0013 (P < .0001), respectively, and 0.0347 ± 0.0041 versus 0.0353 ± 0.0041 (P < .0001), respectively. Western blotting demonstrated that signaling proteins increased under stiffness for p-ROCK and p-ERK1/2: 0.9473 ± 0.1434 versus 0.6788 ± 0.0407 (P = .004), respectively, and 1.1341 ± 0.0542 versus 0.5728 ± 0.0522 (P = .0003), respectively. The pharmacological inhibition of RhoA/ROCK or ERK1/2 reversed the stiffness-induced catabolic shift, and perturbation analysis indicated that RhoA/ROCK lay upstream of ERK1/2 under stiff conditions. SPRY-4 overexpression attenuated stiffness-induced p-ROCK (0.9899 ± 0.0876 vs 0.6312 ± 0.0865, respectively; P = .002) and p-ERK1/2 (1.0780 ± 0.0802 vs 0.3849 ± 0.0745, respectively; P < .0001) activation, whereas SPRY-4 knockdown restored p-ERK1/2 (0.5061 ± 0.0409 vs 0.8108 ± 0.0555, respectively; P = .0019) levels. These results confirm SPRY-4 as a key modulator of ERK1/2 signaling under stiff conditions, mediating crosstalk between the RhoA/ROCK and ERK1/2 pathways. In vivo, atomic force microscopy showed that intra-articular Ad-LOX increased the cartilage elastic modulus to 22.7167 ± 0.6298 versus 18.0600 ± 0.3780 kPa (P = .0004), respectively, and elevated p-ROCK and p-ERK1/2 to 0.9710 ± 0.0077 versus 0.4480 ± 0.0237 kPa (P = .0001), respectively, and 0.9496 ± 0.0879 versus 0.5488 ± 0.0455 kPa (P = .0001), respectively, corroborating the in vitro findings.ECM stiffening activates the RhoA/ROCK to ERK1/2 cascade, and SPRY-4 acts as a stiffness-responsive ERK1/2 modulator. These mechanistic insights are pertinent to early OA.ECM stiffening acts as an early mechanobiological trigger in OA by promoting a catabolic shift in chondrocytes through activation of a RhoA/ROCK-ERK1/2 signaling cascade. This stiffness-dependent pathway crosstalk is mediated by SPRY-4, positioning SPRY-4 and the RhoA/ROCK-ERK1/2 axis as potential mechanosensitive targets for early OA diagnosis and intervention.
Background/Objectives: Neuroblastoma cells are phenotypically plastic, transitioning between mesenchymal and adrenergic states. Core functional genes (e.g., YAP1) mark the mesenchymal state, which is linked to unfavorable prognosis. We and others previously demonstrated relapse-specific Hippo-YAP pathway activation in matched primary/relapsed neuroblastomas. Here we explored the role of YAP1 in neuroblastoma aggressiveness and response to therapy. Methods: RT-qPCR and immunoblotting assessed YAP1 expression in neuroblastoma cell lines. RNA-sequencing detected YAP1-dependent gene signatures in Tet-ON SK-N-AS and SH-EP neuroblastoma cell models expressing wildtype YAP1 or constitutively activated YAP1S127A. Data from cell models were compared with our published YAP1 expression data from neuroblastomas. Efficacy of commonly used chemotherapeutics was comparatively analyzed in the cell models. Results: YAP1 expression showed marked variability across a panel of neuroblastoma cell lines, assessed by mRNA analysis in 10 cell lines and protein analysis in a subset of 9 cell lines. RNA sequencing in constitutively activated YAP1S127A mutant and wildtype YAP1 models detected 2162 and 1837 significantly differentially expressed genes in the SK-N-AS and SH-EP backgrounds, respectively. Continuously activating YAP1 in SK-N-AS cells upregulated mesenchymal signature genes and mesenchymal-associated transcription factors. Gene expression influenced by YAP1 activity in the cell models significantly overlapped with YAP1-associated genes (e.g., CYR61 and SPRY4) in published tumor data. Functionally, YAP1S127A expression rendered neuroblastoma cells resistant to chemotherapy. Conclusions: Findings corroborate the idea of a mechanistic role for YAP1 in neuroblastoma adrenergic to mesenchymal reprogramming and therapy resistance. The YAP1-mediated plastic switch towards a mesenchymal expression state in neuroblastoma cells may provide the molecular basis for novel therapeutic avenues.
Fibrostenosis is a common and disabling complication of Crohn's disease (CD) with no reliable early biomarkers, limited treatment options and high postoperative recurrence.To investigate the contribution of glioma-associated oncogene homolog 1 (GLI1+) mesenchymal cells to fibrostenotic progression and their potential as a therapeutic target.Fibrotic and non-fibrotic tissue samples were collected from patients with CD undergoing surgery for fibrostenotic obstruction. Chronic colitis was induced in mice using dextran sodium sulfate (DSS) or 2,4,6-trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (TNBS). Single-cell RNA sequencing was performed on human and murine intestinal tissues. Gli1-CreERT2; R26-tdTomato and Gli1-CreERT2; R26-iDTR mice were used for lineage tracing and targeted cell ablation. GLI1+ mesenchymal cells were isolated to identify pathogenic determinants. A surgical CD fibrostenosis cohort was analysed.Single-cell transcriptomics and immunofluorescence revealed enrichment of GLI1+ mesenchymal cells at fibrotic sites. Lineage tracing showed that these cells expanded and adopted a myofibroblast phenotype in chronic colitis, whereas their ablation alleviated fibrosis. GLI1+ mesenchymal cells exhibited a distinct transcriptional expression profile with prominent expression of SPARC-related modular calcium-binding protein 2 (SMOC2). SMOC2 was upregulated in human and murine fibrosis, and its knockdown in vivo and in vitro attenuated fibrosis. Mechanistically, GLI1+ mesenchymal cells secreted SMOC2, promoting extracellular matrix deposition and fibroblast activation. In surgical CD cohorts, high SMOC2 expression in intestinal tissue correlated with postoperative recurrence, confirmed in the validation cohort.GLI1+ mesenchymal cells drive intestinal fibrostenosis through SMOC2-mediated niche formation. SMOC2 may serve as a predictive biomarker for postoperative recurrence and a potential therapeutic target for CD.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Degenerative temporomandibular joint diseases (TMJ-DJD) are increasingly affecting elderly populations, with aging being a significant risk factor driving the TMJ degenerative changes. This study aims to explore the shared characteristics between aging and TMJ degenerative diseases at the tissue level, and to identify aging-related signature genes in TMJ degenerations using bioinformatics approaches.Condyles from young (2 months, n = 7) and aged (18 months, n = 6) mice were used to construct an aging dataset. Overlapping genes were identified as the intersection of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) from the aging and TMJOA datasets, with exclusion of DEGs from the mechanical stimulation dataset. Temporomandibular joint osteoarthritis-associated and aging-related differentially expressed genes (TMJOA-ARDEGs) were identified through Weighted gene co-expression network analysis. Functional enrichment analysis and Protein-Protein Interaction networks were employed. Machine learning algorithms were subsequently applied to further screen the TMJOA-ARDEGs, yielding eight Hub TMJOA-ARDEGs. An age-related TMJOA mouse model (18 months of age) was established and grouped based on the micro-CT and the modified Mankin scores. The expression changes of key Hub TMJOA-ARDEGs were verified by immunohistochemical staining. The Mann-Whitney U test was used in non-normally distributed data, presented as [median (interquartile range)].Fifty-two TMJOA-ARDEGs were identified; functional enrichment analysis revealed that these genes are involved in circadian rhythm regulation and apoptosis. Eight Hub TMJOA-ARDEGs were identified: ANK1, MELTF, FERMT3, MDFI, CXCL14, EPHA3, SMOC2, and NR1D1. Based on the micro-CT, 12 condyles of aged mice were divided into the TMJOA group (n = 6) and the healthy group (n = 6). Micro-CT revealed bone resorption in the TMJOA group compared to the healthy group, with a decrease in BV/TV (p < 0.05) and an increase in Tb.Sp (p < 0.05). The modified Mankin scores showed that the TMJOA group had a score of 5.61 (2.28), higher than the healthy group's score of 0.83 (1.28), p < 0.01. Among the Hub TMJOA-ARDEGs, NR1D1 is a key gene involved in regulating circadian rhythm. Immunohistochemical staining confirmed that NR1D1 expression was significantly elevated in the TMJOA group compared to the healthy group (p < 0.01).NR1D1, a negative transcriptional regulator within the circadian feedback loop, is identified as a candidate gene shared between aging and TMJ degenerative diseases.© 2026. The Author(s).
Diabetic enteropathy (DE) is a common complication of diabetes mellitus (DM), yet its underlying molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood. Emerging evidence suggests that abnormal differentiation of intestinal epithelial stem cells (IESCs) contributes to early intestinal dysfunction in DM. In this study, we aimed to investigate the role of CircVapa in regulating IESC differentiation and to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanism involving the miR-212-3p/Smoc2 axis. In this study, IESCs were extracted from BKS.CgDock7m+/+Lepr db/JNju (DM) mice models. A circular RNA molecule, CircVapa, was identified as being markedly enriched in IESCs. Experimental suppression of CircVapa in diabetic mice attenuated abnormal differentiation of intestinal epithelial cells (IECs). Notably, CircVapa was identified as a critical mediator of Lgr5+ stem cell functionality in hyperglycemic conditions. Mechanistically, microarray analysis, bioinformatics analysis, and luciferase reporter assays demonstrated that CircVapa serves as a competitive endogenous RNA (ceRNA) by directly binding miR-212-3p, thereby regulating Smoc2 expression. Furthermore, CircVapa regulated abnormal IESC differentiation via the miR-212-3p/Smoc2 regulatory network in diabetic mice. Collectively, this study demonstrates an important role of CircVapa in regulating IEC differentiation during DM progression.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42038179 is a review article
Despite significant advancements in atopic dermatitis (AD) treatment, the underlying pathogenesis remains unclear. Understanding flare and remission mechanisms is essential for understanding disease course, evaluating treatment and developing therapeutic strategies. Although biomarkers show promise for assessing disease severity, their identification, validation and clinical utility demand further research.To investigate inflammatory changes involved in AD flares and remissions, we studied changes in expression of 368 circulating biomarkers during cyclosporine (CsA) treatment.The study included 40 AD patients experiencing a disease flare and starting CsA treatment. Serum samples were collected at baseline, after 2 and 4 weeks of treatment.CsA treatment induced a rapid improvement of disease severity and reduced proteins related to Th2, Th1 and Th17 pathways. Four novel markers, FKBP1B, PDLIM7, MAP2K6 and EIF4G1 demonstrated decreased expression levels after treatment. In addition, CCL17/TARC and OX40 levels showed a strong correlation with disease severity. Interestingly, NME3, SMOC2, and GAL showed increased expression after treatment. We identified four biomarkers that may be linked to the pathogenesis of flares and remissions. Lastly, we identified OX40 as a potential biomarker for disease severity.We identified four novel serum biomarkers possibly related to treatment effect and we identified OX40 as a potential serum biomarker for assessing disease severity. These findings enhance understanding of AD pathogenesis and offer tools for monitoring therapeutic response and disease severity.Copyright: © 2026 Olydam et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Cuproptosis, a newly identified form of programmed cell death, inhibits liver fibrosis in hepatic stellate cells. However, how cuproptosis influences liver fibrosis in other cells remains to be determined. We aimed to develop a diagnostic model for cuproptosis and to further investigate its role in liver fibrosis. We obtained datasets of patients with metabolic dysfunction-associated fatty liver disease from the Gene Expression Omnibus. A diagnostic model was established using WGCNA and machine learning, and the model demonstrated a satisfied accuracy in the training and validation sets. Single-cell RNA (scRNA) confirmed that cuproptosis is highly likely to occur in hepatocytes and likely promotes liver fibrosis through communication with macrophages and dendritic cells. Immunohistochemistry analyses revealed that THY1 localized to fibroblast membranes and SMOC2 localized to hepatocytes. Molecular docking and molecular dynamics were used to identify the most suitable therapeutic drugs and suggested that breviscapine may target THY1, which may have a therapeutic effect on liver fibrosis. These findings establish a diagnostic model based on cuproptosis-related genes for liver fibrosis, identify THY1 and SMOC2 as key diagnostic biomarkers, and propose a model in which the expression of these markers in hepatocyte are associated with fibrosis progression, potentially through immune-mediated mechanisms.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Myocardial infarction (MI) initiates a cascade of pathological events leading to cardiac remodeling, characterised by abnormal activation of cardiac fibroblasts, excessive extracellular matrix deposition, and progressive ventricular fibrosis, all of which contribute to heart failure. The secreted modular calcium-binding protein 2 (SMOC2), an extracellular matrix-associated protein, has been implicated in several fibrotic diseases. However, its specific role and underlying mechanisms in post-MI cardiac fibrosis remain largely undefined.This study aimed to investigate the role of SMOC2 in myocardial remodeling following MI and to elucidate the molecular mechanisms by which SMOC2 influences cardiac fibroblast activation, fibrosis, and cardiac dysfunction.Using a mouse model of left anterior descending artery (LAD) ligation and neonatal rat cardiac fibroblasts (NRCFs) subjected to hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R), we observed a significant upregulation of SMOC2 expression after MI and in fibroblasts under H/R stress. Fibroblast-specific SMOC2 overexpression aggravated myocardial injury, inflammation, and fibrosis, whereas SMOC2 knockout markedly alleviated these effects and improved cardiac function. Mechanistically, SMOC2 interacted with integrin αvβ5 to inhibit the LKB1/AMPKα/FOXO3 signalling pathway, leading to reduced antioxidant defence, enhanced lipid peroxidation, and elevated oxidative stress. Integrated RNA sequencing and metabolomic analyses consistently revealed that SMOC2 disrupted lipid metabolism during cardiac remodeling.SMOC2 promotes cardiac injury and fibrosis following MI by suppressing the LKB1/AMPKα/FOXO3 signalling pathway through interaction with integrin αvβ5, thereby enhancing lipid peroxidation and oxidative stress. These findings suggest that targeting SMOC2 or reactivating the AMPKα/FOXO3 axis may serve as a potential therapeutic strategy to mitigate maladaptive cardiac remodeling after myocardial infarction.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Postoperative pain remains clinically challenging, and non-opioid strategies are needed. Fibroblast-derived secreted modular calcium-binding protein 2 (SMOC2) in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) suppresses mechanical pain, offering a potential endogenous target.This study aimed to develop a non-opioid analgesic strategy by using Prussian blue nanozymes (PBzymes) to stimulate the in situ secretion of endogenous SMOC2 from DRG fibroblasts, an approach designated here as "endogenous analgesia."PBzymes were synthesized and characterized. A mouse plantar incision model was used to assess pain behavior, supplemented with 3D-motion analysis, DRG transcriptomics, molecular assays, and whole-cell patch-clamp recording. SMOC2 necessity and sufficiency were tested via DRG-specific knockdown and intrathecal SMOC2 administration, respectively. Fibroblast secretion and preliminary safety were also evaluated.A single peripheral injection of PBzymes (75 µg/mL) produced sustained attenuation of incision-induced mechanical allodynia, without affecting thermal hyperalgesia. PBzyme treatment reduced DRG neuron hyperexcitability, reflected by a hyperpolarized resting membrane potential and an increased action potential threshold. Transcriptomic analysis revealed upregulation of extracellular matrix-related genes, including Smoc2, which was confirmed at mRNA and protein levels in DRG tissues and in cultured fibroblasts. PBzymes enhanced SMOC2 secretion without cytotoxicity. DRG-specific Smoc2 knockdown abolished PBzyme-induced analgesia and the associated electrophysiological improvements, whereas exogenous SMOC2 administration recapitulated the analgesic effect. No adverse effects on body weight or major organ histology were observed.This work establishes an "endogenous analgesia" strategy in which PBzymes alleviate postoperative mechanical pain by upregulating fibroblast-derived SMOC2 in the DRG. Evidence from loss-of-function, gain-of-function, and functional electrophysiological studies supports a central role for SMOC2 in this mechanism. The approach presents a promising, sustained, non-opioid avenue for pain management.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41714037 is a review article
Tubular injury during acute kidney injury (AKI) is a major determinant of chronic kidney disease (CKD) progression, yet the molecular mechanisms underlying tubular protection remain incompletely understood. Here, we identify the matricellular protein SPARC-related modular calcium-binding 2 (SMOC2) as a previously unrecognized protective regulator of tubular injury. Although SMOC2 has been implicated in renal fibrosis through fibroblast activation, its role during AKI remains unknown. We show that SMOC2 expression is rapidly and robustly induced in renal tubules following exposure to aristolochic acid I (AAI) or cisplatin. Unexpectedly, SMOC2 knockout mice exhibited aggravated tubular injury, increased DNA damage and apoptosis, and worsened renal function in both AAI- and cisplatin-induced AKI models, whereas recombinant SMOC2 (rSMOC2) treatment markedly ameliorated AAI-induced tubular injury. Furthermore, in an AAI-induced AKI-to-CKD model, SMOC2 deficiency exacerbated renal fibrosis, linking early tubular protection to long-term outcomes. Mechanistically, transcriptomic profiling and biochemical analyses revealed that SMOC2 suppresses aberrant G1/S cell cycle progression by restraining the CCND1-CDK4/6 axis through its interaction with integrin β3 (ITGB3), thereby arresting tubular cells in the G1 phase and facilitating DNA repair. This interaction depends on the cooperation of multiple structural domains rather than a single motif. Notably, pharmacological inhibition of CDK4/6 with palbociclib phenocopied the protective effects of SMOC2, with post-injury treatment providing superior protection, thus defining a druggable downstream pathway. Collectively, our findings uncover a previously unappreciated cytoprotective role of SMOC2 in AKI and establish the SMOC2-ITGB3-CCND1-CDK4/6 signaling axis as a potential therapeutic target to prevent AKI progression and its transition to CKD.© 2026. The Author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42484603
Apelin is a secreted peptide hormone involved in vasodilation, fluid homeostasis, and angiogenesis, and is therefore considered an important regulator of cardiovascular physiology. The APLN T-1860C (rs56204867) polymorphism is a genetic variation in the promoter region of the apelin gene (APLN) that is associated with increased susceptibility to cardiovascular risk factors. This study aimed to elucidate the relationship between the apelin gene -1860T>C single-nucleotide polymorphism, plasma apelin levels, and the risk of coronary artery disease (CAD) in a Syrian population.A case-control study was conducted, comprising 108 CAD patients and 114 healthy controls. Plasma apelin levels were quantified using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The apelin -1860T>C gene polymorphism was analyzed by polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP).Our findings reveal that mean plasma apelin levels were significantly lower in CAD patients (2737.81 ± 1205.01 pg/mL) compared to controls (4258.73 ± 2119.12 pg/mL; p < 0.001). Notably, these levels did not correlate with any of the other anthropometric parameters studied. In females, the frequencies of the TC genotype (30.5% vs 10.5%, p = 0.041, odds ratio [OR] = 3.75) and the mutant C allele (15.2% vs 5.2%, p = 0.043, OR = 3.256) were significantly higher in CAD patients than in controls. Whereas no significant differences were observed in male subjects. Although the plasma apelin level was lower in patients and controls with the TC genotype, this difference was not statistically significant (p > 0.05).Our findings indicate that the APLN -1860T>C polymorphism is associated with a higher risk of CAD in the Syrian population, particularly among females, suggesting a sex-specific genetic predisposition. Furthermore, reduced plasma apelin levels in patients suggest that apelin may play an independent role in the development of CAD, warranting further exploration.© 2026 Abd-Alkareem et al.
In modern dairy systems, sustained milk production over the lifetime of a cow depends critically on maintaining reproductive efficiency across repeated lactation cycles. However, repeated lactation and advancing parity impose cumulative metabolic and inflammatory stress that often compromises fertility and shortens productive lifespan. Increasing evidence suggests that immune dysregulation contributes to parity-associated reproductive decline, raising the possibility that sustained milk production requires adaptive immune regulation. We hypothesized that cows achieving reproductive longevity exhibit parity-dependent immune remodeling that supports continued reproductive function and extended milk production. To test this hypothesis, we profiled blood transcriptomes from 131 Holstein cows spanning parities 1-9. Analysis of 17 422 expressed genes identified six distinct parity-associated expression trajectories, revealing coordinated transcriptomic remodeling with increasing reproductive history. Differential expression analysis identified 1 405 parity-associated genes enriched in immune- and stress-related pathways, including MAPK and Rap1 signaling. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis further identified immune-regulatory modules strongly correlated with parity and key reproductive indicators, suggesting a central role of immune adaptation in sustaining reproductive efficiency. Machine learning analysis of 256 genes in significantly enriched pathways with P-adjusted < 0.05 prioritized PDE4C, APLN, and CDH15 as potential key predictors of reproductive persistence. Integration with co-expression networks demonstrated that these genes may function as highly connected hub nodes within immune- and stress-responsive modules. Collectively, these results indicate that coordinated immune signaling networks are associated with reproductive persistence and thereby contribute to extended milk production in dairy cows. This study provides molecular insight into the immune mechanisms underlying productive longevity and identifies candidate biomarkers with potential applications in genomic selection and precision herd management.© 2026 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42210920 is a review article
Collateral arteries are natural bypasses that can reroute blood flow around arterial blockages, limiting tissue injury during stroke and coronary artery disease. Despite their clinical effectiveness, therapeutic strategies to stimulate collateral artery growth remain unavailable due to our limited understanding of their developmental mechanisms. Remarkably, guinea pigs display exceptionally dense collateral artery networks across various organs, resulting in complete resistance to ischemic damage in the brain and heart. In this study, we compared single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) from guinea pig and mouse tissues to identify endothelial cell (EC) gene expression patterns associated with extensive collateral artery development. We then developed an in vivo Perturb-seq platform in mice to test whether genes differentially expressed in guinea pigs influence artery EC specification. This pipeline identified artery repressors that were downregulated in guinea pigs and increased pial collateral abundance when inhibited in mice. Downstream analysis suggests that artery repressors, including WNT and hypoxia response genes, function in two capillary EC subsets-Esm1+ pre-artery and Apln+ angiogenic tip cells. Reduced activity of these repressors allows more ECs to acquire arterial identity, potentiating collateral artery formation. Collectively, our study establishes a strategy for discovering the genes underlying species-specific traits, suggests that guinea pigs have collaterals due to decreased activity of artery inhibitor pathways and hypoxia responses, and identifies novel targets for stimulating collateral artery formation (Graphical abstract).
Diabetic foot ulcers (DFUs) represent a severe chronic complication of diabetes and are characterized by persistent impairment of wound healing, accompanied by defective angiogenesis, chronic inflammation, and dysregulated extracellular matrix remodeling. Although impaired angiogenesis is widely recognized as a key pathological feature of DFUs, its associated molecular alterations have not been systematically characterized at the transcriptomic and cellular levels.In this study, bulk transcriptomic data were analyzed in combination with machine learning-based gene prioritization and single-cell RNA sequencing to investigate molecular features associated with angiogenesis impairment in DFUs. Differential expression analysis was performed using the GSE199939 and GSE134431 datasets, followed by GO and KEGG enrichment analyses. Angiogenesis-related genes were retrieved from the MSigDB HALLMARK_ANGIOGENESIS and GO:0001525, and intersected with the DEGs to generate a candidate gene set. A LASSO logistic regression model was then constructed in the discovery cohort and evaluated in a replication cohort, yielding a five-gene signature consisting of APLN, ENG, FN1, SERPINA5, and TIMP1. Single-cell transcriptomic data were subsequently used to examine the cellular expression patterns of these feature genes.Among the five feature genes, FN1 and TIMP1 showed relatively clear expression localization at the single-cell level. Single-cell RNA sequencing analysis revealed that FN1 was mainly enriched in fibroblasts and stromal-related cell populations, including pericytes/smooth muscle cells, whereas TIMP1 exhibited a multicellular expression pattern, with relatively high expression in fibroblasts, inflammatory myeloid cells, macrophages, and proliferating cells. In vivo experiments further showed that TIMP1 and EGFR mRNA expression levels were significantly decreased, whereas MMP9 mRNA expression was significantly increased in wound tissues from the model group. FN1 mRNA showed a downward trend, although the difference did not reach statistical significance.This integrative bioinformatic analysis provides an exploratory characterization of molecular features potentially related to restricted angiogenesis and impaired repair in DFUs and suggests that TIMP1 may represent a more robust candidate linked to proteolysis-related dysregulation, whereas FN1 may more likely reflect stromal extracellular matrix remodeling.Copyright: © 2026 Hu et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Elucidating the mechanisms underlying vascular injury and repair may guide development of therapies against vascular cognitive impairment and dementia (VD). We employed single-cell RNA sequencing to map cell populations and explore vascular responses in mouse brains collected 42 days after asymmetric common carotid artery stenosis (ACAS)-induced chronic cerebral hypoperfusion. A unique tip cell type was identified among endothelial cell (EC) clusters and validated by immunostaining. Gene Ontology analyses suggested tip cell enrichment in angiogenesis and the involvement of Apln/Aplnr signaling. Immunoblotting confirmed an increase in apelin (Apln) protein after ACAS. In EC cultures, [Pyr1]-Apelin-13 (Apln13), a selective endogenous apelin receptor agonist, enhanced EC proliferation, migration, and tube formation. Treatment with Apln13 also improved angiogenesis, white matter integrity, and cognitive functions in ACAS mice. Cell-cell interaction analyses highlighted astrocyte-tip cell crosstalk via Vegfa-Vegfr interactions.© 2026 The Author(s).
This study investigated whether ovarian adipokines exhibit uniform or stage-specific expression patterns across different follicular stages under hyperandrogenic conditions using a letrozole-induced polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) mouse model. Adult female mice received oral letrozole treatment for 21 days to induce hyperandrogenism, and ovarian tissues were analyzed by immunohistochemistry and western blot to examine the localization and expression of adiponectin (ADPN), adipoR1, adipoR2, leptin (Ob), leptin receptor (ObR), apelin (APLN), apelin receptor (APJ), chemerin, CMKLR1, and visfatin. Intense immunostaining for Ob, ObR, APJ, APLN, adipoR2, and visfatin was observed in primary, secondary, and Graafian follicles, whereas ADPN, adipoR1, and CMKLR1 showed reduced reactivity. In follicular cysts, adipoR2, APLN, APJ, and Ob were markedly upregulated compared with the corpus luteum of control ovaries, whereas ADPN, adipoR1, chemerin, CMKLR1, and ObR were downregulated. These findings indicate that hyperandrogenism disrupts adipokine signaling in a follicle-dependent manner, with differential expression patterns contributing to altered follicular maturation and cyst formation. The enhanced activation of adiponectin, apelin, and leptin signaling observed in cystic follicles may indicate disrupted adipokine-mediated regulation of ovarian physiology in letrozole-induced PCOS. Given the established roles of these adipokines in folliculogenesis and steroidogenesis, their dysregulation may contribute to follicular arrest and impaired ovarian function. These alterations are likely reflective responses to an altered endocrine and metabolic environment rather than direct causal mechanisms. Nonetheless, they may participate in the pathophysiological processes underlying cyst formation in PCOS.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Anxiety disorders are one of the most common mental disorders. Dysregulation of apelinergic system, comprising apelin receptor (APLNR) and its two ligands, apelin (APLN) and elabela, may contribute to the pathogenesis of anxiety disorders. However, the exact role of APLNR in anxiety and underlying mechanisms remain elusive. To avoid embryonic or preweaning lethality of complete Aplnr knockout, we generated neural cell-specific Aplnr knockout mice (Aplnr-cKOnestin). The Aplnr-cKOnestin mice exhibit anxiety-like behaviors by elevated plus-maze test and marble burying test. To investigate the underlying mechanisms, transcriptomic profiling and validation were performed in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and amygdala. 897 genes and 473 genes were significantly dysregulated in the PFC and amygdala of Aplnr-cKOnestin mice (p < 0.05), respectively, while 20 genes and 1 gene were retained in the PFC and amygdala (adjusted p < 0.05), respectively. The dysregulated genes were involved in a number of pathways including inflammatory response, immune response, oxytocin signaling pathways etc. Furthermore, key hub genes in inflammatory and oxytocin signaling pathway were identified by network analysis. In this study, we demonstrated that neural cell-specific APLNR deficiency contributes to anxiety-like behaviors in mice, which is associated with the alteration of global gene expression, highlighting APLNR as a potential therapeutic target for anxiety disorder treatment.© 2026 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
The aim was to evaluate the apelinergic system (Apln/Aplnr) levels, and the TEAD1-YAP intracellular signalling via, as well as the histological parameters of three muscles (soleus [Sol], gastrocnemius [Ga], and extensor digitorum longus [Edl]) of the aging female Wistar rats fed with a high-fat diet (HFD). Two groups of seven ageing female Wistar rats were randomly assigned to the control (Ctrl) or obesity (Ob) groups and fed a chow diet or an HFD from day 21 until 650 days old. In Sol, Ga, and Edl muscle tissues, we evaluated the lipids, area, and size distribution of muscle fibres, the percentage of fibre types I and II (a and b), and the proteins Apln, Aplnr, Tead1, and YAP (total and phosphorylated). We found a significant increase in the percentage of lipid-positive cells in the cross-sectional area of the Sol and Edl muscles (p = 0.044 and p = 0.003, respectively) in the Ob group, and a decrease in the area of the Sol with an increase in the Edl muscle area (p = 0.0004 and p = 0.0160, respectively). We did not find significant differences in the percentages of type I, IIa, and IIb fibres across the three muscles analyzed. We observed a decrease in Apln protein levels in the Ob group in the Ga muscle (p = 0.002). In conclusion, our study provides new insights into the impact of aging and obesity, which varies by muscle type and involves morphological changes in fibre size, lipid accumulation, and alterations in Apln levels.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Mutations in transmembrane channel-like protein 1 (TMC1), the pore-forming component of the mechano-electrical transducer (MET) channel in auditory hair cells, cause cell death and deafness in 3-wk old mice. We studied mice with mutations Tmc1 p.T416K, p.M412K, p.D528N, and p.D569N, which possessed functional MET channels at postnatal day (P)6 but became deaf before P21. These Tmc1 mutants had channels with reduced Ca2+ permeability and lower expression of the PMCA2 calcium pump in outer hair cell (OHC) stereocilia. The reduction in PMCA2 density was directly correlated with reduced Ca2+ entry via the MET channel. Over the first postnatal week, PMCA2 expression decreased in cochlear cultures containing lowered extracellular Ca2+, but after P11, PMCA2 density was insensitive to Ca2+ changes. The lower PMCA2 density in mutants was maintained into adulthood and may contribute to hair cell death. Before the onset of hearing, PMCA2 continuously turns over, and its insertion into stereocilia from an identified vesicular compartment is regulated by cytoplasmic [Ca2+]. PMCA2 turnover was strongly inhibited by the endocytosis blocker, Pitstop2, and by PtdIns(4,5)P2 blockers like phenylarsine oxide (PAO), which was shown to elevate stereociliary [Ca2+]. We argue the effects of PAO on mechanotransduction may be partly due to this Ca2+ increase. OHC bundles also expressed Neuroplastin (NPTN), a PMCA2 accessory protein, whose development paralleled PMCA2, and we propose it stabilizes the pump complex in stereocilia. NPTN expression was delayed about 2 d relative to PMCA2 and was less Ca2+ sensitive, implying it originates from a different internal pool of vesicles.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a complex neurodegenerative disorder with diverse molecular signatures that extend beyond the central nervous system. Peripheral blood serves as a minimally invasive source of transcriptomic biomarkers reflecting systemic inflammation, mitochondrial dysfunction, lysosomal impairment, and disrupted RNA processing-key pathways involved in PD. Long-read RNA sequencing with Oxford Nanopore Technologies (ONT) offers unprecedented detail of full-length transcripts, alternative isoforms, and RNA modifications, enabling more accurate detection of disease-related transcriptional changes. We conducted high-throughput ONT long-read RNA sequencing on blood samples from 145 individuals, including PD patients and age-matched healthy controls. RNA libraries were prepared using a cDNA-based protocol optimised for high-accuracy PromethION sequencing. Transcriptomes were quantified with ONT-specific pipelines, and analyses of differential gene expression (DGE), differential transcript expression (DEX), differential transcript usage (DTU), and alternative splicing were performed using ONT-aware tools such as DRIMSeq, DEXSeq, and stageR. Pathway enrichment linked disease-related changes to mitochondrial, lysosomal, and vesicle-trafficking pathways. Our analysis identified highly significant PD-associated transcriptional signatures in peripheral blood (SNCA, VPS13C, LRRK2, GRN, STAU1, NPTN, PARK7). Long-read sequencing uncovered extensive isoform-level dysregulation, including novel transcript variants (e.g., BCL2L2-PABPN1, SQSTM1) in pathways relevant to PD, such as autophagy and endolysosomal trafficking. DTU analyses revealed shifts in isoforms of LRRK2 and GBA1, indicating widespread disturbances in RNA processing. Enrichment analysis showed activation of molecular pathways linked to neurodegeneration. This study provides the largest long-read blood transcriptomic dataset in PD to date, demonstrating that ONT sequencing can resolve isoform-level changes and reveal systemic molecular signatures of PD. Our findings support the development of blood-based RNA biomarkers and the establishment of long-read transcriptomics as a transformative approach for genomic pathology in PD.Copyright © 2026 Koks, Muldmaa, Price, Whiley, Jakobson, Singleton, Howting, Pfaff, Chopra, Watson, Sikk and Taba.
NPTN encodes human neuroplastin (hNp), a transmembrane immunoglobulin (Ig)-superfamily glycoprotein and a subunit of the plasma membrane calcium (Ca2+)-ATPases (PMCA). The critical importance of hNp and its associations with PMCA in the human brain remains unknown.Here, we describe de novo NPTN variants in individuals with autism and mild-to-severe DD/ID and evaluate their effects using animal models and in silico, molecular, and cellular approaches.Four individuals present variants affecting the two hNp isoforms, hNp55 and hNp65. Other four variants affect only the hNp65 isoform. Two individuals independently carry the same loss-of-function nonsense variant, predicted to cause haploinsufficient production of all hNp isoforms. Haploinsufficient Nptn+/- mice displayed reduced levels of Np and PMCA and exhibited altered social behavior. Insufficient Np55/65 production in neurons resulted in reduced PMCA expression and function. Two missense variants caused particular structural and thermodynamic abnormalities and lower expression of hNps in human embryonic kidney (HEK) cells. In primary neurons, these hNp variants failed to regulate cytosolic Ca2⁺ transients. In Drosophila, a missense mutation affecting the PMCA interaction failed to prevent the lethal phenotype caused by hNp ortholog elimination.We show that a novel neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by intellectual disability and autism originates from haploinsufficient NPTN gene dosage or insufficient functionality of mutant hNp related to PMCA hypofunction.© 2026. The Author(s).
BACKGROUND: Stage III non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is heterogeneous and poses significant treatment challenges. In recent years, neoadjuvant therapy has emerged as a promising treatment strategy for patients with stage III NSCLC. CASE PRESENTATION: We report the case of a 39-year-old woman with stage IIIB lung adenocarcinoma harboring a neuroplastin-neuregulin 1 (NPTN-NRG1) fusion who achieved a dramatic response to neoadjuvant afatinib. After three months of therapy, imaging showed a partial response; the patient subsequently underwent complete surgical resection with an uneventful recovery and has remained disease-free to date. To explore the mechanism underlying this response, we performed single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and T-cell receptor (TCR) sequencing of tumor tissues and lymph nodes. The analysis revealed a mutual interaction between CD8+ effector T cells, CD8+ memory T cells, and natural killer-like (NK-like) T cells via C-C chemokine ligand (CCL)5-C-C chemokine receptor (CCR)5, CCL5-CCR3, and CCL5-CCR1 ligand-receptor pairs. These findings indicate that the post-treatment microenvironment is characterized by active chemokine signaling and immune cell crosstalk, which may contribute to the anti-tumor response. CONCLUSIONS: This case highlights the efficacy of afatinib in the perioperative treatment of NSCLC with NRG1 fusion, and supports its potential as a personalized therapeutic strategy.
BACKGROUND: Lung cancer is the predominant contributor to cancer-induced mortality, with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) constituting the majority. However, the intricacies of tumorigenesis and progression in this context remain incompletely understood. METHODS: Utilizing single-cell RNA sequencing data retrieved from the GEO database, we performed high-dimensional weighted gene co-expression network analysis to identify pivotal gene modules exhibiting the highest correlation with the clinical stages of NSCLC patients. Subsequently, we formulated a novel prognostic three-gene signature, subjecting it to thorough analysis using bulk RNA sequencing data obtained from the TCGA-LUAD dataset. RESULTS: A tumor-intrinsic prognostic signature, comprising SEC61G, NPTN, and ALDOA, emerged from our investigation. The risk score derived from this gene signature revealed significantly poorer overall survival among patients in the high-risk group. Patients in different risk groups exhibited distinct immune statuses, with those in the low-risk group likely to benefit more from immunotherapy. Furthermore, in vitro experiments demonstrated that SEC61G facilitates tumor proliferation and migration with the activation of the WNT/β-Catenin signaling pathway. CONCLUSION: Our study unveiled a novel tumor-intrinsic gene signature, shedding light on improved prognostication for NSCLC and facilitating risk-stratified management.
The many surface proteins on extracellular vesicles (EVs) allow them to target recipient cells and modulate cellular responses. Despite their importance, relating surface protein and EV function is challenging due to surface protein heterogeneity. Here, we create a bottom-up, cell-free protein-synthesis platform to engineer artificial nanovesicles (ANVs) that display different EV surface protein domains. The platform is termed VESSEL (Vesicle Engineering Systems using Synthetic Expression and Loading). The surface proteins are selected based on proteomics data of native EVs from placental mesenchymal stem cells (PMSCs). To create VESSEL, we establish a protein anchor based on the bacteria membrane protein Aquaporin-Z. This anchor allows the flexible and cell-free protein synthesis of 39 different EV surface protein domains, each anchoring into more than 108 ANVs per μL. Furthermore, we measure the ANVs using high-fidelity assays, including single-ANV flow cytometry, super-resolution imaging, and vesicle-based ELISA. Next, we show the impact of each EV surface protein on cellular uptake. Specifically, we find that certain EV surface protein domains govern ANV uptake into HEK293FT cells, explaining the variable observations in the field. We discovered new proteins, such as CADM1 and NPTN, that mediate high-efficiency cellular uptake. Additionally, five proteins were selected for our neuroprotection assay, where three proteins were significant in increasing SH-SY5Y neurite growth. Our work demonstrates a high-throughput cell-free synthesis platform for studying surface proteins of EVs. It enables the systematic interrogation of EV's function as "signalosomes" and facilitates the designing of well-defined EV mimetics to mediate cellular function.
Previous studies have suggested a potential role for paraptosis-related genes (PRGs) in cancer pathogenesis, yet their prognostic significance and therapeutic efficacy in gastric cancer (GC) remain largely unexplored. This study aims to investigate the function of PRGs in GC and offer valuable insights for clinical assessment of patient prognosis. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and the cancer genome atlas (TCGA)-GC transcriptomic data were acquired from public databases, with PRGs derived from Literature. Differential expressed genes 1 (DEGs1) were identified through scRNA-seq differential analysis. Prognostic genes were determined via regression analysis, followed by construction of prognostic models and nomograms to validate risk scores as independent predictors. Immune infiltration analysis assessed prognostic genes' impact on the tumor microenvironment. Cell trajectory analysis elucidated critical differentiation patterns between GC and normal groups, while cell communication analysis revealed interactions between key cellular subpopulations. In this study, 3,177 DEGs were identified from scRNA-seq. A risk model using 8 prognostic genes predicted GC patient survival outcomes effectively. These genes were also validated as independent prognostic factors in a nomogram. High-risk patients showed significantly increased immunotherapy resistance. T cells and fibroblasts were more differentiated in GC patients, while neutrophils had the highest interaction intensity in both GC and normal groups, with the CXCL8-CXCR2 interaction being most significant (p < 0.01). This study identified 8 prognostic genes (ABRACL, RANBP1, RAMP1, CCT2, AKR1A1, NPTN, ITGA8, CLU) and combined single-cell and transcriptome analysis to offer new insights into potential GC treatment strategies.© 2025. The Author(s).
After long-term artificial selection and lineage mixing, the Danish Landrace pig (DLR), has developed characteristics such as a long body length, high lean meat rate, rapid growth rate, high litter size, and a longer gestation period, with an average gestation length of 117 days. However, the genes responsible for these desirable traits remain partly unknown. According to the breeding history of DLR pigs, it has undergone introgression from British Large White pigs (BLW), selection for high lean meat rate and long body length within the population, and a rapid improvement in reproductive performance since 1992. Research on Danish Duroc and Large White pigs has detected that the lineage of pigs in Taihu Lake region (TL) has introgressed into these two breeds. Therefore, we performed resequencing and chip scanning on 106 TL pigs and 557 DLR pigs, and downloaded 163 resequencing data from Eurasian pigs for shared haplotype analysis, selective sweep analysis, and GWAS.The results indicate that 12 important genes, including CREB3L2, PRKAB2, HIF1A, IGF1, have introgressed from BLW into DLR pigs. These genes enhance lean meat percentage by participating in thermogenesis, oxidative phosphorylation and HIF-1 signaling pathways. In the DLR pig population, 13 shared selected genes were identified across three selective sweep methods. These genes including HBM, RHBDF1, POLR3K, ZNF484, were found to be associated with growth rate, body length, lean meat percentage, and reproductive performance by pheWAS analysis. Interestingly, reproductive performance is primarily related to gestational trait. GWAS for gestational trait in DLR pig population revealed 13 significant genes which also under selection in selective sweeps. These genes include INSYN1, NPTN, NEO1, ZDHHC21. Our study clarifies that the lineage of TL pigs has also introgressed into DLR pigs, with NDUFS4 being an important introgressed gene influencing reproductive performance. Moreover, compared to the low-fertility American Landrace pigs, HTR7, RPP30, ANKRD1, ARHGAP42, and CNTN5 may be important genes selected for enhancing litter size within the DLR pigs.Our research deepens the understanding of the breeding history of DLR pigs, preliminarily identifies genes associated with the characteristics of high lean meat percentage, long body length, and high fertility in DLR pigs, and also finds that the high litter size of DLR pigs may be related to gestation length.© 2025. The Author(s).
Background: Spinal cord injury (SCI) represents one of the recognized difficulties, and its pathological mechanisms remain unclear. Aberrant regulation of the RNA-binding protein (RBP) and selective splicing are associated with SCI. Nonetheless, the mechanisms of RBP regulation and abnormal selective splicing events associated with SCI are unexplored. Methods: The Spinal Cord Injury Group (GSE185301) dataset and human peripheral blood RNA sequencing (GSE151371) dataset were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. High-throughput sequencing data from sham-operated (Ctrl) and spinal cord injury (SCI) mice were subjected to gene expression profiling and genome-wide identification of differential selective splicing events. SCI-associated selective splicing events, differentially expressed cells, and differentially expressed RBPs underwent cellular quantification, principal component analysis, and enrichment analysis. Coexpression analysis was conducted to elucidate the regulatory associations among SCI-related variable splicing events, differentially expressed cells, and differentially expressed RBPs. Results: A total of 1643 alternative splicing events (ASEs), 3128 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), 166 differentially expressed RNA-binding proteins (RBPs), and 6 differential cellular taxa were identified, including mesangial cells, microglia, neuronal cells, oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs), oligodendrocytes, and vascular cells. GO and KEGG analyses revealed that differential ASEs, RBPs, and cells were involved in regulating SCI through various biological pathways. Next, we chose to regulate alternative splicing (RAS), which is mainly enriched in the neurodevelopmental and projection neuron developmental pathways, and screened 10 SCI-associated regulated alternative splicing genes (RASGs), including App, Cdc42, Chl1, Kif2A, Nptn, Rtn4, Sema4d, Sema6d, Sema6a, and Rab13. Second, the correlation analysis between differential cellular taxa and differentially expressed RBP events identified a total of 12 RBPs significantly associated with cellular taxa and 4 RBPs associated with SCI. The construction of a cellular-RBP-RAS regulatory network revealed the regulatory mechanisms associated with RBPs post-SCI. These RBPs, including Nkrf, Marcks, NDRG4, and Ryr2, were validated in a human peripheral blood RNA sequencing dataset 3 days after SCI and may serve as molecular targets for SCI repair. Conclusion: High-throughput data analysis identified differential RAS, RBPs, and immune cells during SCI. A regulatory network of differential RBPs with RAS and cells was established. Four RBPs associated with SCI were identified: Nkrf, Marcks, NDRG4, and Ryr2. These key RBPs may serve as potential targets for the treatment of patients with SCI.© 2025 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
Ca2+-ATPases in the plasma membrane extrude Ca2+ ions from the cytosol to the extracellular space thereby terminating Ca2+-signals and controlling Ca2+-homeostasis in any type of cell. Recently, these Ca2+-pumps have been identified as protein complexes of the transporting subunits PMCAs1-4 and the single-span membrane proteins Neuroplastin (NPTN) or Basigin that are obligatory for efficient trafficking of the pump complexes to the surface membrane. Quantitative investigation of the pumping velocity controlling the time course of Ca2+-signals, however, has remained unresolved. Here we show, using Ca2+-activated K+ channels as fast native reporters of intracellular Ca2+ concentration(s) together with membrane-tethered fluorescent Ca2+-indicators, that under cellular conditions PMCA2-NPTN complexes can clear Ca2+ in the low millisecond-range. Computational modeling exploiting EM-derived densities of Ca2+-source(s) and Ca2+-transporters in freeze-fracture replicas translated these fast kinetics into transport rates for individual PMCA2-NPTN pumps of more than 5000 cycles/s. Direct comparison with the Na+/Ca2+-exchanger NCX2, an alternate-access transporter with established cycling rates in the kHz range, indicated similar efficiencies in Ca2+-transport. Our results establish PMCA2-NPTN complexes, the most abundant Ca2+-clearing tool in the mammalian brain, as transporters with unanticipated high cycling rates and demonstrate that under cellular conditions ATPases may operate in the kHz-range.© 2025. The Author(s).
β-Glucosidases (Bgls) catalyse the hydrolysis of β-D-glycosidic bonds and are widely exploited as industrial biocatalysts. While their activity on O- and S-linked glycopyranosides is well established, hydrolysis of N-linked glycopyranosides by Bgls has not previously been demonstrated. Here, we screened a eukaryotic Bgl library for activity on methyl anthranilate-N-β-D-glucopyranoside (MANT-N-glucose), a novel N-glucopyranoside we recently produced biocatalytically. We identify ZmGlu1 as capable of hydrolysing this substrate, albeit with substantially reduced catalytic efficiency relative to native O-glucopyranoside substrates. Structural modelling of the enzyme-substrate complex reveals interactions likely underlying this reduced activity. These findings establish N-glycopyranosides as Bgl substrates and lay the groundwork for engineering Bgls with broader glycosidic bond specificity.© 2026 The Author(s). FEBS Open Bio published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
Dentinogenesis, a process essential for tooth function, relies on the precise differentiation of dental papilla cells into odontoblasts. This lineage commitment is governed by complex transcription factor networks. RUNX2 and KLF4, known key TFs co-expressed in this process, were proven to operate synergistically, but the specific cofactors coordinating their activity at the chromatin level remain unknown. Here, we identify the chromatin remodeller BRD9 as a novel interactor of both RUNX2 and KLF4 during odontoblastic differentiation. To probe their shared function, we generated neural crest-specific conditional knockout mice. Wnt1-Cre; Brd9fl/fl mice exhibited a disordered odontoblast layer with reduced secretion of extracellular matrix proteins (DMP1 and DSPP), strikingly phenocopying the compound Wnt1-Cre; Runx2fl/wt; Klf4fl/fl mutants. In vitro, chemical BRD9 degradation suppressed odontoblastic differentiation and mineral deposition. Integrative analyses of RNA-seq and ATAC-seq revealed that BRD9 maintained chromatin accessibility at odontogenesis-associated regions enriched with RUNX2 and KLF4 motifs, specifically at the Fam20c enhancer, thereby facilitating RUNX2 and KLF4 binding for transcriptional activation. Crucially, exogenous supplementation of FAM20C protein partially rescued the odontoblastic differentiation defects upon BRD9 loss. These findings establish BRD9 as a critical epigenetic orchestrator that coordinates RUNX2-KLF4 synergy to activate key odontogenic genes like Fam20c, thus affecting odontoblastic differentiation and dentinogenesis.© 2026 The Author(s). Cell Proliferation published by Beijing Institute for Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
High-fat diets (HFDs) are widely utilized in aquaculture and result in multiple health and welfare problems in aquatic animals, yet the systemic impacts on host metabolism and gut microbial ecology of HFDs remain insufficiently understood let alone the exact solutions. Here, we investigated the effects of Bacillus thuringiensis Sd_h10 (abbreviated as h10) supplementation on gut microbiota composition, metabolic homeostasis and growth performance in juvenile Larimichthys crocea fed with a high-fat diet. Our results showed that high-fat diet with h10 partially altered intestinal microbial community composition, enhanced the complexity of microbial co-occurrence and was associated with tissue-specific alterations in lipid distribution. Specifically, h10 promoted the deposition of polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) and glucose utilization in intestinal and muscle tissues, while concurrently alleviating hepatic lipid accumulation. Moreover, the expression of genes associated with lipid metabolism, carbohydrate utilization and protein turnover was differentially regulated in the intestine, liver, and muscle, indicating coordinated metabolic adjustments across tissues. Fish in the HFD + h10 exhibited significantly higher relative weight gain and length gain than those in other treatments (P < 0.05). This enhanced growth performance was accompanied by upregulation of growth-promoting genes (gh1, igf1, and myod) and suppression of the growth-inhibitory gene (mstnb) in multiple tissues. Furthermore, partial least squares path modeling (PLS-PM) revealed significant structured associations linking gut microbiota composition, tissue-specific metabolic phenotypes, and growth performance. Collectively, our findings indicated that h10 supplementation may modulate gut microbiota and be associated with multi-tissue metabolic coordination under high-fat dietary conditions. This study provides new insights into the potential role of microbiota-associated metabolic regulation in supporting growth performance in marine aquaculture species.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Heart failure (HF) with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) carries a high mortality and remains a major therapeutic challenge. Effective, targeted therapies capable of reversing HFpEF pathophysiology are urgently needed. We previously demonstrated that activation of the cardiac growth hormone-releasing hormone (GHRH) pathway using high potency synthetic agonists of GHRH (GHRH-agonists) improves the HFpEF phenotype in both large and small animal models, including in a murine model of cardiometabolic HFpEF (High fat diet + L-NAME). Here we sought to define the downstream signaling pathways responsible for this effect. A transcriptomic screen in human iPSC-derived cardiomyocytes (hiPSC-CMs) identified the HIF-1α pathway as being activated by GHRH receptor (GHRHR) signaling, revealing an oxygen-independent mechanism of HIF-1α activation. Based on this finding, we investigated the interaction between the cardioprotective effects of the GHRH-agonist MR-356 and HIF-1α pathway activation in the murine HFD+L-NAME model of cardiometabolic HFpEF. We generated a cardiomyocyte-specific HIF-1α knockout (HIF-1αCMKO) mouse line and demonstrated that our previously reported beneficial effects of GHRH-agonist administration were completely abolished in HIF-1αCMKO mice. Together, these findings establish the GHRHR-HIF-1α axis as a putative integrative pathway coupling metabolic and contractile remodeling, suggesting that therapeutic targeting of this axis represents a novel disease-modifying approach to treating cardiometabolic HFpEF.
Hypoxia is a key regulator of renal epithelial cell function and contributes to the pathogenesis of kidney diseases. Although two-dimensional cell cultures are commonly used to study hypoxic responses, three -dimensional spheroid cultures better represent the in vivo microenvironment, including cell -cell and cell -matrix interactions. In this study, we compared hypoxia -induced gene expression in two - and three -dimensional cultures of HK2 cells.We induced hypoxia at 12 hours in two -dimensional cultures and at 24 hours in three -dimensional spheroids, with confirmation of hypoxia by hypoxia -inducible factor 1α protein expression and vascular endothelial growth factor mRNA upregulation. With quantitative real -time polymerase chain reaction analysis, we noted that long noncoding RNA H19 was significantly upregulated in both culture models, accompanied by modulation of NLRP3, Wnt1, β -catenin, interleukin 1 β, interleukin 6, tumor necrosis factor α, interleukin 10, microRNA -30a -5p, and microRNA -196a.Tumor necrosis factor α and microRNA -30a-5p expression were decreased, with strong interleukin 10 upregulation, in two -dimensional cultures. In three -dimensional cultures, expression levels of both microRNA -30a -5p and microRNA -196a were further upregulated, with less pronounced reduction of tumor necrosis factor α and limited increase of interleukin 10 expression.Our findings suggested that microRNA -30a -5p and microRNA -196a may play a role in modulating hypoxia -induced cytokine responses, contributing to a more balanced cellular adaptation in three -dimensional cultures. Three-dimensional HK2 spheroids may provide a physiologically relevant model for studying hypoxic stress and may reveal the potential involvement of long noncoding RNA H19 and specific microRNAs in regulation of inflammatory and signaling pathways. Of note, this study represents one of the first investigations of hypoxia -induced gene expression in three -dimensional HK2 cultures, offering a novel contribution to understanding renal epithelial responses under low oxygen conditions.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42538058 is a review article
Bactrian camels exhibit distinct seasonal estrus, with periodic testicular functional fluctuations regulating their reproductive activity. As a key transcription factor in reproductive modulation, the specific role of GATA4 in the testicular microenvironment of Bactrian camels remains unclear. This study investigates the expression patterns of GATA4 in the testicular tissue during estrus and anestrus phases, alongside its potential regulatory effects on Sertoli cells (SCs) function. Utilizing mRNA sequencing, we analyzed testicular samples in estrus (n = 3) and anestrus (n = 3), identifying 291 differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analyses revealed that GATA4 was involved in reproduction-related processes, including tight junction formation, autophagy, and cell cycle regulation. Notably, validation showed that GATA4 expression was significantly upregulated in testicular tissue during the anestrus period, with its protein localized primarily in SCs. Gain- and loss-of-function assays revealed that altered GATA4 expression is associated with changes in autophagy-related marker profiles, evidenced by a lower LC3II/LC3I ratio, decreased Beclin-1, and increased P62 expression level. Silencing GATA4 induced opposite alterations in these autophagy-associated molecular markers, and these molecular changes are associated with modified mTOR/NF-κB pathway expression. Additionally, GATA4 influences SCs apoptosis and G0/G1 cell cycle arrest and these cellular phenotypic changes are accompanied by alterations in the PI3K/AKT pathway, which correlates with changed levels of BAX, Caspase-3, BCL2, and CDK1. And moreover, GATA4 modulates the expression of the tight junction markers ZO-1 and Occludin, and these remodeling events are associated with modified WNT1/β-catenin signaling. In conclusion, GATA4 exhibits dynamic expression patterns throughout the reproductive cycle, which correlates with the modulation of multiple biological processes in SCs, including autophagy-related marker remodeling, apoptosis regulation, and tight junction marker remodeling. This study's findings provide a key molecular target for elucidating the seasonal reproductive mechanism and reproductive regulation of Bactrian camels and enrich the current understanding of reproductive regulatory mechanisms in this species.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Tumor-immune cell interactions critically contribute to the progression of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). In this study, we investigated the role of WNT1-inducible signaling pathway protein 3 (WISP-3) in regulating tumor cell adhesion and the underlying molecular mechanisms in lung adenocarcinoma cells. Treatment with recombinant WISP-3 significantly increased intercellular adhesion molecule-4 (ICAM-4) expression at both mRNA and protein levels in A549 and H1299 cells in a dose-dependent manner. Consistently, WISP-3 enhanced tumor-monocyte adhesion, indicating its involvement in tumor-immune cell interactions. Mechanistically, WISP-3 stimulated rapid activation of the MEK/ERK signaling cascade, as demonstrated by increased phosphorylation of MEK and ERK. Pharmacological inhibition of MEK using PD98059 or U0126, as well as direct inhibition of ERK with SCH772984, markedly attenuated WISP-3-induced ICAM-4 expression and THP-1 adhesion. These findings were further supported by siRNA-mediated knockdown of MEK or ERK, confirming the essential role of this pathway. In addition, WISP-3 suppressed the expression of hsa-miR-12131, which was identified as a negative regulator of ICAM-4. Restoration of hsa-miR-12131 significantly reduced ICAM-4 expression and impaired tumor-monocyte adhesion, indicating that miR-12131 functions downstream of MEK/ERK signaling. Collectively, these results demonstrate that WISP-3 promotes ICAM-4-dependent monocyte adhesion through activation of the MEK/ERK pathway and subsequent suppression of hsa-miR-12131. This WISP-3/MEK/ERK/miR-12131/ICAM-4 axis provides new insight into tumor-immune interactions in NSCLC and highlights potential therapeutic targets.© The author(s).
The somatotropic axis encompassing growth hormone (GH), insulin-like growth factor (IGF), myostatin (MSTN), and prolactin (PRL) signalling cascades is the master regulator of somatic growth, metabolism, and development in vertebrates. African catfish (Clarias gariepinus), a commercially pivotal aquaculture species, now possesses a chromosome-level reference genome (CGAR_prim_01v2); however, a systematic, genome-wide characterization spanning all five interconnected growth-related gene families has not previously been undertaken in this species. Here, we identified and characterized 15 growth-related genes spanning gh1, ghra, ghrb, Igf1, Igf2a, Igf2b, igf1ra, Igf1rb, Igf2r, Mstna, Mstnb, prl, prlra, prlrb, and smtlb distributed across 13 chromosomes. Complete one-to-one orthology with zebrafish confirmed strong dosage-balance conservation across >120 million years of teleost divergence. Physicochemical analysis resolved a clear biochemical dichotomy between compact, basic secreted ligands (19.88-45.81 kDa; pI up to 10.02) and large, acidic, heavily glycosylated membrane receptors (56.82-270.80 kDa; pI 4.85-5.97). Phylogenetic analysis confirmed 3R whole-genome duplication origins for all paralog pairs, while synteny analysis revealed a disruption of the ancestral gh1-prl chromosomal block in C. gariepinus, a finding that warrants further comparative and functional investigation. This genomic atlas provides the sequence and structural information including exon-intron boundaries, domain architecture, and chromosomal coordinates needed as a prerequisite for future marker-assisted selection and CRISPR-based myostatin-editing efforts in African catfish aquaculture, though translation into applied breeding outcomes will require subsequent functional and expression studies.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Aging is associated with decreased bone formation and bone mass and increased fracture risk. Wnt pathway activation by mechanical loading is a potent strategy to improve bone mass; however, load-induced bone formation is diminished with aging. Neutralizing antibody (Ab) therapies targeting Wnt pathway inhibitors sclerostin (Scl) and Dickkopf-related protein 1 (Dkk1) have proven successful in preclinical and clinical osteoporotic conditions. We asked whether treatment combining Scl-Ab and Dkk1-Ab can increase load-induced bone formation in a preclinical model of osteoporosis. Aged (22-mo) C57BL/6N female mice underwent combination Scl-Ab plus Dkk1-Ab therapy (15 mg/kg each; s.c.; 2×/wk; saline control) for 2 wk, concomitant with tibial loading (-2200 me, 1200 cycles/d, 5 d/wk). Based on serial micro-CT, dual-antibody treatment had a significant, positive effect on bone morphology, independent of loading. For example, from day 0 to day 15 cancellous BV/TV increased by 50% and cortical area by 25% in non-loaded limbs of antibody-treated mice, while vehicle-treated mice had no change. However, antibody treatment did not enhance the effects of tibial loading on bone morphology, which was not significant. On the other hand, antibody treatment and loading each increased periosteal bone formation indices and together had a synergistic effect. For example, periosteal BFR/BS was 10-fold higher in loaded limbs of antibody- vs vehicle-treated mice. Gene expression analysis showed that antibody treatment and loading synergistically upregulated Wnt1 expression in bone, which may have contributed to the synergistic effect on bone formation. These results confirm the potent anabolic effect of combination Scl plus Dkk1 antibody treatment. Moreover, they show that antibody treatment and skeletal loading may be more effective at increasing periosteal bone formation in aged mice than either treatment alone. Longer term studies are needed to determine if combination treatment leads to a similar synergistic effect on bone morphology and bone strength.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Society for Bone and Mineral Research.
Critical-sized bone defect repair remains a formidable challenge because conventional approaches cannot recapitulate the temporally coordinated cascade of endochondral ossification. Here, we report a biomimetic, temporally programmed cytokine delivery scaffold that integrates spatially defined nanofiber architecture with sequential biochemical activation to orchestrate orderly tissue regeneration. The scaffold comprises electrospun polycaprolactone nanofibers with an inner uniaxially aligned layer and an outer random layer. Interleukin-8 (IL-8), strategically loaded into the aligned fibers to reinstate early-stage chemotactic cues markedly diminished in adult bone defect repair, is released in a sustained manner during the initial 14 days, enhancing mesenchymal stem cell recruitment and initiating chondrogenic differentiation. At later stages, bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2) encapsulated between the fiber layers is released on demand via near-infrared (NIR) stimulation, enabling temporally precise promotion of osteogenesis. In vivo, the staged delivery system led to a 72.1% greater bone volume fraction at 12 weeks compared to controls. IL-8-driven early cartilage formation and BMP-2-induced late-stage bone regeneration were consistent with upregulated expression of chondrogenic markers S100 (3.63-fold) and COL2 (1.57-fold) at 4 weeks and subsequently, osteogenic markers OCN (1.68-fold) and OPN (1.47-fold) at 12 weeks. By reinstating early molecular signals absent in conventional healing and coupling them with on-demand osteogenic stimulation, this programmable delivery strategy offers a potent and adaptable approach for regenerating critical-sized bone defects and potentially other complex tissues requiring staged repair.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42565887
Although insulin-like growth factor binding protein 2 (IGFBP2) is significantly upregulated in diabetic gastroparesis (DGP) and may regulate ICC mitophagy through its interaction with VDAC1, the precise mechanism of action remains unclear. This study aims to investigate the role and mechanism of IGFBP2 in the pathogenesis of DGP, with a specific focus on its impact on mitochondrial quality control in interstitial cells of Cajal (ICCs).An in vivo DGP model was established. IGFBP2 expression was knocked down to assess its effects on systemic metabolism (blood glucose, HbA1c), gastric motor function (gastric emptying, motility, blood flow), and ICC integrity. In vitro, cell viability, apoptosis, mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP), and key proteins in the PINK1/Parkin mitophagy pathway were analyzed using CCK-8, flow cytometry, fluorescent probes, and Western blot.IGFBP2 knockdown significantly ameliorated hyperglycemia, promoted gastric emptying, enhanced contractile activity, and improved gastric perfusion. Mechanistically, it enhanced ICC survival, suppressed apoptosis, reduced mitochondrial oxidative stress, and stabilized MMP. Crucially, these benefits were mediated by the downregulation of voltage-dependent anion channel (VDAC1) and subsequent inhibition of PINK1/Parkin-dependent mitophagy.These findings indicate that IGFBP2 drives mitochondrial dysfunction and ICC loss via a VDAC1-dependent mitophagy pathway, revealing a previously underrecognized mechanism in DGP. The observed functional recovery and cytoprotection following IGFBP2 knockdown suggest that targeting this pathway may offer a potential therapeutic strategy for DGP.IGFBP2 acts as a potential upstream regulator that drives mitochondrial dysfunction and ICC loss in DGP via a VDAC1-mitophagy axis. These findings unveil IGFBP2 as a promising therapeutic target for intervening in the progression of DGP.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
The current evidence suggests that the formation of pulp stones (PS) has a genetic background. Therefore, the present study aimed to evaluate the association between PS in orthodontically treated patients and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the mineralization-related genes (bone morphogenetic protein 2 [BMP2], BMP4, SMAD6, and runt-related transcription factor 2 [RUNX2]).This cross-sectional study analyzed genomic DNA and panoramic radiographs from patients with a history of orthodontic treatment. Panoramic radiographs were analyzed and PS were identified as well- or poorly defined radiopaque opacities located within the pulp chamber of the maxillary and mandibular first and second permanent molars. Genomic DNA obtained from all participants was analyzed. The genetic analysis focused on seven specific SNPs located in genes involved in mineralization pathways: BMP2 (rs235768 and rs1005464), BMP4 (rs17563), SMAD6 (rs3934908 and rs2119261), and RUNX2 (rs59983488 and rs1200425). Comparisons of allele and genotype (codominant, dominant, and recessive models) distributions between patients with and without PS were performed using the chi-square test. Logistic regression analyses were performed to control for potential confounders such as age and sex for the SNPs located in the RUNX2 gene. One-way ANOVA was applied to evaluate differences in the mean number of teeth with PS across genotypes. The significance level was established at α = 0.05.The final sample comprised 235 patients: 120 presented with PS, and 115 served as controls. For the SNP rs59983488 in RUNX2, a statistical association was observed for genotype distribution in the dominant model (p = 0.033) and for allele distribution (p = 0.022). For the SNP rs1200425 in RUNX2, a statistical association was observed for genotype distribution in the recessive model (p = 0.046; odds ratio [OR] = 2.0, confidence interval [CI] 95% 1.0-3.8). No statistically significant association was observed in the logistic regression analysis.Our study suggests that RUNX2 could have a small effect on the susceptibility of orthodontic patients to develop PS.Copyright © 2026 Daniel Hemming et al. International Journal of Dentistry published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Osteoporosis and osteosarcoma impose a substantial and rising global health burden, yet their transcriptomic landscapes have not been systematically compared. We performed a multiomics characterization integrating bulk transcriptomics, coexpression network analysis, immune deconvolution, single-cell RNA sequencing, and diagnostic classifier construction.Bulk transcriptomic profiling was performed using GSE56815 (circulating blood monocytes, n = 80; 40 low-BMD/40 high-BMD) and the TARGET-OS database (n = 88 osteosarcoma tumor samples; DNA methylation n = 86; copy number n = 81). Differential expression was assessed by Welch's t-test with Benjamini-Hochberg correction. Coexpression modules were identified by hierarchical clustering of the Top 2000 most variable probes with dynamic tree cutting. A logistic regression classifier was constructed from the Top 20 differentially expressed probes using fivefold-stratified cross-validation. Single-cell RNA sequencing of an osteosarcoma tumor specimen (GEO accession GSM9030790) was processed with SVD-based dimensionality reduction and K-means clustering (k = 8; n = 3658 cells passing QC). In vitro validation was conducted by qRT-PCR in MC3T3-E1 osteoblast precursor cells and RAW264.7 osteoclast precursor cells.Differential expression analysis identified 4347 probe sets at nominal p < 0.05, of which 604 remained significant after Benjamini-Hochberg correction. Eight coexpression modules were identified; module M0 showed a weak positive association with low-BMD status (r = 0.184), which did not reach statistical significance. Six hub genes-SP7/Osterix, RUNX2, BMP2, WNT5A, DKK1, and SOST-were examined by qRT-PCR: SP7, RUNX2, BMP2, and WNT5A showed significant downregulation (p < 0.01), whereas DKK1 showed significant upregulation (p < 0.01) and SOST showed a nonsignificant trend toward upregulation under osteoporosis-simulating conditions. The diagnostic classifier achieved a moderate AUC of 0.693 (fivefold CV range: 0.48-0.91), with the lower bound falling below the random classifier baseline (AUC = 0.5), indicating limited discriminative capacity in some data partitions. scRNA-seq resolved eight transcriptionally distinct cell clusters in the osteosarcoma specimen (3658 cells passing QC).This integrative multiomics study provides a comprehensive transcriptomic comparison of osteoporosis and osteosarcoma, identifies BMD-associated coexpression modules with experimentally validated hub genes, and establishes a reusable analytical framework for biomarker discovery in metabolic and malignant bone disease. However, the weak module-trait correlations, subthreshold classifier performance in some cross-validation folds, and the use of circulating blood monocytes to study bone-specific gene expression warrant cautious interpretation of the findings.Copyright © 2026 Dongming Fu et al. International Journal of Genomics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Acromegaly is a rare disease caused by growth hormone (GH) hypersecretion from a pituitary adenoma. Pegvisomant is the only approved GH receptor antagonist (GHRA) and is administered via daily subcutaneous injections, which limits real-world effectiveness. Here, we report the discovery and characterization of MAR002, a novel, half-life extended monoclonal antibody GHRA. MAR002 was identified by immunizing transgenic mice with the extracellular domain (ECD) of human and cynomolgus monkey GH receptor (GHR) and engineered with Fc modifications to limit effector function and extend serum half-life. MAR002 was benchmarked against pegvisomant in biophysical assays, cellular signaling inhibition studies, and a head-to-head pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) study in cynomolgus monkeys. MAR002 exhibited higher binding affinity to GHR and >100-fold more potent inhibition of GH-induced GHR signaling than pegvisomant (human half-maximal inhibitory concentration [IC50] 1.05 nM vs 122 nM). Epitope binning demonstrated simultaneous binding of MAR002 and GH to GHR, consistent with an allosteric, non-competitive mechanism; notably, MAR002 inhibitory activity was maintained at supraphysiological GH concentrations, whereas pegvisomant activity was competitively reduced. In cynomolgus monkeys, a single 10 mg/kg intravenous (IV) dose of MAR002 sustained ≥50% IGF-1 suppression for 36 days compared with 15 days for an equimolar pegvisomant dose, with comparable maximal lowering (∼80%). These findings support clinical evaluation of MAR002 as a next-generation long-acting GHRA for acromegaly, with potential for reduced dosing frequency and more consistent suppression of the GH-IGF-1 axis.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Endocrine Society.
Pancreatic acinar cell carcinoma (ACC) is a rare and aggressive malignancy whose molecular basis remains poorly understood. N6-methyladenosine (m⁶A) RNA modification, mediated particularly through methyltransferase 3 (METTL3), has emerged as a critical regulator in various cancers. Here, we investigated the role of METTL3-mediated RNA methylation in ACC development and progression. We used transgenic mouse models overexpressing Mettl3 and SV40 large T antigen under the pancreatic elastase I promoter. Comprehensive analyses included m⁶A-methylated RNA immunoprecipitation sequencing (MeRIP-seq), single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), functional studies using the METTL3 inhibitor STM2457, and S-adenosylmethionine (SAM)-binding domain deletion mutants to assess functional requirements. Mettl3 overexpression significantly accelerated ACC development and increased tumor aggressiveness. The SAM-binding domain was essential for tumor formation, as deletion mutants failed to promote carcinogenesis. MeRIP-seq revealed preferential methylation of cell cycle and DNA replication genes in Mettl3-overexpressing tumors. scRNA-seq analysis demonstrated enhanced malignancy signatures, including epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition and transforming growth factor-β signaling. METTL3 also promoted PRSS1-mediated signaling from ACC cells to inflammatory cancer-associated fibroblasts, creating a feed-forward loop involving IGF1 that amplifies tumor growth. Conditional Mettl3 deletion induced rapid tumor apoptosis. Pharmacological inhibition with STM2457 similarly triggered caspase-3/7-dependent apoptosis in pancreatic tumors. METTL3-mediated RNA methylation drives ACC pathogenesis through tumor-intrinsic cell cycle regulation and tumor-extrinsic stromal interactions. These findings establish METTL3 as a promising therapeutic target and provide mechanistic insights supporting the clinical development of METTL3 inhibitors for ACC treatment.© 2026. The Author(s).
The melanocortin-4 receptor (MC4R) is a G protein-coupled receptor that regulates energy homeostasis. Pathogenic MC4R variants represent the most common cause of monogenic obesity and are frequently associated with increased linear growth. However, the mechanisms linking MC4R signaling to somatic growth remain incompletely understood. We report a child with severe growth hormone deficiency (GHD) carrying a heterozygous MC4R variant (c.496G>A; p.V166I), in whom recombinant human growth hormone (rhGH) therapy triggered an unexpectedly exaggerated clinical and biochemical response, suggesting a potential pharmacogenetic interaction between MC4R signaling and the GH/IGF-1 axis.The male patient was first evaluated at 1 month of age due to micropenis and diagnosed with multiple pituitary hormone deficiencies. At 57 months of age, his height was 97.3 cm (-2.56 SDS) and annual growth velocity was 4.1 cm/year (<-2 SDS); rhGH (somatropin) therapy was initiated. Despite severe biochemically confirmed GHD, rhGH at 0.03 mg/kg/day triggered an exaggerated response: IGF-1 levels increased from -3.35 SDS to +8.00 SDS. Concurrently, his height velocity accelerated to 16 cm/year, and his bone age rapidly advanced by approximately 4 years over a 23-month period, culminating in mandibular prognathism.The coexistence of severe GHD and an MC4R variant is rarely described, and such a pronounced response to rhGH has not previously been reported. These findings suggest that MC4R p.V166I may modulate peripheral GH/IGF-1 signaling and act as a pharmacogenetic modifier of GH responsiveness. Careful rhGH dose titration with close IGF-1 monitoring may be considered in patients carrying the MC4R p.V166I variant.© 2026 Walter de Gruyter GmbH, Berlin/Boston.
Segmental bone defects (SBD), frequently resulting from high-energy trauma like military combat injuries and major accidents, represent a significant clinical challenge because of the loss of a large bone segment and associated soft-tissue injury. These injuries often occur in military settings, where blast and ballistic trauma cause complex injuries requiring advanced reconstructive strategies. Similar injuries also occur in the civilian population in car accidents, falls, and workplace injuries. Existing therapies (autografts, allografts, and biomaterials) have limitations, including donor site morbidity and graft rejection, highlighting the need for novel bone regenerative approaches. Human placental tissue-derived xenografts (connective tissue matrix [CTM]), rich in structural proteins and growth factors, are under investigation for enhancing bone repair in severe musculoskeletal injuries. This study investigates the efficacy of placental tissue xenografts in a murine SBD model.A murine SBD model with a 2 mm defect in the femoral diaphysis of male C57BL/6J mice was used. Mice with SBD were divided into 5 experimental groups: saline control, bone morphogenic protein (BMP-2), and 3 different formulations of CTM (CTM Paste, CTM Membrane, and CTM Membrane+Paste). Treatments were delivered at the defect site at the time of surgery and mice were euthanized 13 weeks postsurgery. Bone healing and pain behaviors were assessed including radiographic scoring, microcomputed tomography (µCT), biomechanical torsion testing, weightbearing, locomotion, and spontaneous nociceptive behaviors. Statistical analyses included one-way or two-way ANOVA and unpaired Student's t-tests.BMP-2-treated groups showed significantly larger callus formation, however, lower bone volume/total volume (BV/TV) % compared to saline control was observed. In contrast, the CTM Membrane+Paste group exhibited significantly higher BV/TV%. Biomechanical tests revealed enhanced ultimate torque in BMP-2 and CTM Membrane+Paste groups versus saline controls. All treatment groups of SBD mice exhibited sustained pain behaviors after fracture, which did not return to baseline levels even when bone healing was complete.The CTM Membrane+Paste treatment group exhibited improved bone healing parameters in a murine model of SBD. Specifically, BV/TV and some biomechanical properties were improved. Notably, CTM did not increase pain behaviors. Further studies are needed to optimize graft effects and assess therapeutic value for clinical translation. Overall, the results support continued investigation, including potential combination therapies and trials in larger animal models.© The Association of Military Surgeons of the United States 2026.
Preeclampsia (PE) is a gestational hypertension disorder emerging after 20 weeks of pregnancy, complicating 5-8% of pregnancies and representing a leading cause of maternal-fetal morbidity and mortality. Despite its clinical significance, the etiology and pathogenesis of PE remain obscure. Sorting nexin 9 (SNX9), a key regulator of intracellular trafficking and endomembrane dynamics, has been poorly explored in reproductive physiology. This study investigates the role of SNX9 in PE, demonstrating significant downregulation of SNX9 in decidual tissues from preeclamptic patients. In vitro decidualization models showed SNX9 expression correlated with decidualization progression, as evidenced by upregulation of decidual markers (IGFBP1, PRL), while SNX9 knockdown impaired decidualization. Transwell assays revealed that aberrant SNX9 expression restricted trophoblast invasion into endometrial stromal cells. In pregnant mice, SNX9 expression in decidual tissues positively correlated with decidualization regulators (Wnt4, Bmp2) and markers (Prl8a2, Dtprp). Consistent expression patterns were observed in pseudopregnant mice after artificial decidualization induction, excluding embryonic influences. Collectively, these findings establish SNX9 as essential for normal decidualization, with dysregulated SNX9 potentially contributing to PE pathogenesis. This study uncovers a novel link between endomembrane dynamics and PE, providing insights into its molecular mechanisms.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for Reproduction and Fertility. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Bone marrow aspirate concentrate (BMAC) is a promising orthobiologic therapy, yet the impact of patient demographics on its proteomic profile remains poorly understood. This study investigates how smoking status, age, sex, and BMI modulate BMAC's protein composition, focusing on 109 analytes across inflammation, immune response, and tissue regeneration pathways. BMAC samples from 120 patients (iliac crest: n = 77; humeral head: n = 43) were stratified by smoking status (current, former, never-smokers) and analyzed via antibody microarrays. Nonparametric statistical analyses (Kruskal-Wallis, Dunn's post hoc) with false discovery rate (FDR) corrections revealed significant proteomic alterations in iliac crest-derived BMAC from smokers, including upregulated pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-17, TNF-α; p < 0.05, FDR-adjusted) and downregulated anabolic factors (TGF-β1, BMP-9). Former smokers exhibited intermediate profiles, suggesting partial recovery postcessation. Sex-based differences (e.g., BMP-5, FGF-4) were noted but did not survive FDR correction. Humeral head samples showed minimal smoking-related changes, highlighting site-specific effects. These findings underscore smoking's catabolic influence on BMAC's therapeutic potential and advocate for pretreatment cessation protocols.© 2026 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
Previous studies show that combined treatment with stem cell factor (SCF) and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) enhances brain repair and functional recovery during the chronic phase of severe traumatic brain injury (TBI), but the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we investigated whether SCF + G-CSF modulates brain immune cell states during chronic TBI. In a controlled cortical impact mouse model, SCF + G-CSF was administered subcutaneously for 5 consecutive days beginning 8 months post-injury. CD11b⁺ brain immune cells, including microglia and monocytes/macrophages (Mo/Mac), were isolated one day after the final injection and analyzed by single-cell RNA sequencing. Integrated analyses revealed more extensive transcriptomic changes in Mo/Mac than in microglia following SCF + G-CSF treatment. Flow cytometry confirmed a significant increase in the CD11b+/CD45high Mo/Mac population following treatment. In microglia, SCF + G-CSF modestly upregulated genes such as S100a8, S100a9, Mir682, and Rpl37rt. In contrast, Mo/Mac showed robust upregulation of genes including Wfdc17, Ifitm1/2/3, Tspo, Lrg1, and Igfbp6, consistent with transcriptomic signatures associated with antiviral defense, anti-inflammatory regulation, and acquisition of reparative phenotypes. Volcano plot analysis demonstrated more extensive transcriptomic remodeling in infiltrating peripheral immune cells than in resident microglia. Pathway analysis identified interleukin-17 signaling as a candidate pathway associated with SCF + G-CSF treatment, along with enrichment of programs related to protein synthesis, detoxification, and glial development. Together, these findings demonstrate that the transcriptomic response to SCF + G-CSF treatment is more pronounced in cerebral monocyte/macrophage populations than in microglia, providing insight into candidate immunomodulatory mechanisms associated with brain repair in chronic TBI.© 2026. The Author(s).
Heart failure (HF) represents the final stage of cardiovascular disease progression, characterized by high morbidity and mortality. Pressure overload in HF activates the PI3K/AKT pathway, and prolonged activation leads to pathological cardiac hypertrophy. However, the mechanism underlying sustained PI3K/AKT activation in pressure overload-induced HF remains unclear. In this study, we demonstrate that miR-203 overexpression in transgenic mice counteracts cardiac dysfunction and pathological remodeling in HF, whereas miR-203 downregulation exacerbates HF. At the cellular level, miR-203 overexpression significantly reduces Angiotensin II (Ang II)-induced cardiomyocyte hypertrophy and injury, while miR-203 knockdown aggravates these effects. Mechanistically, miR-203 binds to the 3' untranslated region (3'UTR) of insulin-like growth factor binding protein 5 (IGFBP5) mRNA, inhibiting IGFBP5 protein expression, thereby suppressing PI3K/AKT signaling and mitigating cardiomyocyte hypertrophy. Furthermore, we demonstrate that fibronectin-1 (FN1) is a critical functional partner for IGFBP5, as knockdown of FN1 attenuates IGFBP5-induced PI3K/AKT activation and hypertrophy. This study is the first to elucidate the role and mechanism of miR-203 in regulating pressure overload-induced HF, offering a potential genetic tool for HF therapy.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to The Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Sciences and Chinese Pharmacological Society.
N6-methyladenosine (m6A) RNA modification plays critical roles in physiological and pathological processes. Our prior study demonstrated that IGFBP5 expression is upregulated in the ischemic limb, whereas endothelial-specific IGFBP5 knockout (Igfbp5EKO) protects against hind limb ischemia by enhancing angiogenesis. Here, we show that IGFBP5 deficiency elevates global m6A levels and upregulates the expression of m6A methyltransferase complex components METTL3, METTL14 and WTAP in endothelial cells. We further identified a direct interaction between IGFBP5 and the MT-A70 domain of METTL14. Knockdown of METTL14, METTL3 or WTAP attenuated the pro-angiogenic effects of IGFBP5 deficiency in vitro. In vivo, endothelial knockdown of METTL14 abolished the improved hind-limb ischemia recovery in Igfbp5EKO mice. Methylated RNA immunoprecipitation sequencing revealed that IGFBP5 depletion in endothelial cells increases both m6A modification and mRNA abundance of FGF16. Notably, METTL14 or METTL3 silencing suppressed IGFBP5-dependent FGF16 upregulation. Enhanced translational efficiency of FGF16 in IGFBP5-deficient cells was reversed by METTL14 knockdown, indicating that IGFBP5 regulates FGF16 translation via m6A modification. Mechanistically, IGFBP5 modulates FGF16 m6A modification via interaction with the m6A reader protein IGF2BP2, targeting the m6A site at position 255 of FGF16 mRNA. In summary, our study establishes METTL14-mediated m6A modification of FGF16 as a key mechanism underlying IGFBP5-driven angiogenesis. Targeting the IGFBP5-METTL14-m6A-FGF16 axis may offer novel therapeutic strategies for ischemic disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is characterized by an aggressive clinical course and extremely limited targeted therapy options. One of the key drivers of immunosuppression in the tumor microenvironment is the polarization of tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) towards the M2 phenotype. In the present study, we investigated the effect of insulin-like growth factor 2 (IGF2)-the primary ligand of the IGF1R receptor and a target of the inhibitory protein IGFBP6-on the transcriptional profile of macrophages polarized in vitro from the THP-1 cell line. We demonstrate that IGF2 exerts fundamentally different effects depending on the baseline functional state of the macrophages: in immature (M0) and M2-polarized cells, it induces the expression of pro-inflammatory genes, whereas in M1 macrophages it triggers pronounced immunosuppressive reprogramming. These findings suggest that IGFBP6, by inhibiting IGF2, may sustain an anti-tumor immune response within the TNBC microenvironment.© 2026. The Author(s).
Primary mitochondrial diseases (PMD) have limited disease-modifying therapies, currently applicable to only 3 of over 400 discrete gene disorders. Cycloheximide (CHX) is a global cytosolic translation inhibitor we previously reported to rescue PMD preclinical models, although its toxicity precluded clinical development. To identify specific mediators underlying CHX treatment benefit in PMD, SOMAscan-based proteomics was performed in complex I deficient and genetic disease fibroblast cell line models grown in galactose. Thrombopoietin (THPO) and insulin-like growth factor binding protein 5 (IGFBP5) were the only two differentially regulated proteins, together with ERK/MAPK pathway dysregulation, identified upon CHX treatment in PMD versus healthy control cells. THPO inhibition by siRNA or pharmacologic approaches rescued stress-induced viability loss in patient fibroblasts having diverse PMD gene etiologies, and significantly improved mitochondrial stress, linear growth, and neuromuscular function in a classical ndufs2 -/- C. elegans model. IGFBP5 overexpression by lentiviral or mRNA approaches rescued cell viability across distinct PMD gene etiologies, as did IGF1 pharmacologic inhibition across both PMD mutant and C. elegans models. MAPK pharmacologic inhibition rescued multiple distinct complex I disease cells' survival, as well as mitochondrial stress in SLC25A46 -/- C. elegans . Combination therapies targeting multiple of these glucose signaling pathway proteins, together with glucose and N-acetylcysteine, yielded superior therapeutic benefit in complex I disease cell and C. elegans models. Additionally, single or combined pharmacologic inhibition of THPO or IGF1 significantly enhanced primary and metastatic osteosarcoma cell death. Collectively, targeted small molecule and genetic modulation of THPO, IGF1, or MAPK recapitulated the significant therapeutic benefit of CHX in PMD, while avoiding global translation inhibition. These novel PMD therapies likely confer benefit by attenuating MAPK-driven autophagy and potentially promoting noncanonical glucose uptake, improving cellular energy balance. Overall, these glucose signaling cellular pathway targets hold broad therapeutic promise for PMD patients, warranting further clinical research development.
Skeletal and synovial joint development involves distinct skeletal stem/progenitor populations. However, in neural crest-derived temporomandibular joint (TMJ), skeletal stem/progenitor lineage dynamics and ossification programs remain poorly defined. Here, we performed single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) on mouse mandibular cartilage at embryonic day 16.5 (E16.5), postnatal day 0 (P0), and 13 weeks to construct a high-resolution atlas of skeletal stem/progenitor populations. At embryonic and postnatal stages, the outer perichondrium contained Lgr5+Pthlh+ cells expressing Dlx5, consistent with an intramembranous ossification-associated program. In contrast, a previously uncharacterized Crabp1+ subpopulation within the inner perichondrium expressed Nrg1, Lsamp, Tac1, and Igfbp5, consistent with an early chondrogenic-associated transcriptional state. These results suggest spatially distinct ossification-associated programs and reveal the transcriptional regulation underlying TMJ development. Our findings provide a model for understanding neural crest-derived TMJ skeletal stem/progenitor cell regulation and may inform future studies of TMJ cartilage biology and regeneration strategies within this specialized tissue.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Purpose: To describe the long-term, multimodal follow-up and multidisciplinary evaluation of two pediatric patients with CDH3-related retinopathy, discussing the genotypic and phenotypic spectrum of this rare cadherinopathy. Design: Retrospective observational case series. Methods: Two unrelated children with early-onset macular dystrophy and congenital hypotrichosis underwent a comprehensive ophthalmic examination, including spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT), blue-light fundus autofluorescence (BAF), microperimetry, and full-field electroretinography (ffERG), combined with dermatologic assessment and exome sequencing. Follow-up extended over 4 years in Patient 1 and 15 years in Patient 2. Results: Both patients showed sharply demarcated posterior pole chorioretinal atrophy with preservation of the peripheral retina and stable best-corrected visual acuity throughout follow-up. Microperimetry documented localized sensitivity loss with limited progression. SD-OCT revealed persistent ellipsoid zone disruption, retinal pigment epithelium atrophy, and outer retinal tubulations. Dermatologic evaluation confirmed congenital hypotrichosis without nail abnormalities; one patient exhibited mild fifth finger clinodactyly. Genetic testing identified the following two distinct homozygous CDH3 variants: a splice-site mutation (c.160+1G>A) and a frameshift insertion (c.1837dup, p.(Asp613Glyfs*4)). Conclusions:CDH3 retinopathy presents with a characteristic multimodal imaging pattern of localized macular atrophy and slow functional decline associated with congenital hypotrichosis. A comprehensive multidisciplinary approach was essential for the correct diagnosis and a better and more thorough definition of the clinical presentation. Detailed long-term follow-up supports the hypothesis of retinal pigment epithelium dysfunction or maldevelopment rather than widespread retinal degeneration. Recognition of this phenotype is critical for accurate diagnosis, genetic counseling, and future gene-therapy strategies targeting the preserved peripheral retina.
Down feathers and contour feathers are two distinct feather types with vastly different structures and functions coexisting in the same individual. However, the molecular mechanism underlying these differences remains unclear. In this study, skin tissue containing intact feather follicles was collected from four anatomically defined regions of healthy Beijing ducks (Anas platyrhynchos domesticus) for transcriptomic sequencing: the breast and abdomen, which generate down feathers, and the wingtips and rump, which produce contour feathers. To mitigate bias arising from site-specific effects, we established paired comparisons between contour feathers and down feathers across different regions. Across all comparisons, 36 core differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were consistently identified. These encompassed nine HOX family transcription factors across three paralogous clusters, ZIC family members (ZIC1 and ZIC4), WNT4, TBX4, BMP5, cytoskeletal and sarcomeric genes (MYOZ2, ACTN2, DES, SMPX), extracellular matrix regulators (ASPN, MGP, FMOD), and lipid metabolism-related genes (MOGAT2, PNPLA2), among others. Pathway enrichment analysis revealed that transcriptomic variations in different feather follicles involve gene modules functioning in positional identity, cytoskeletal organization, extracellular matrix remodeling and lipid metabolism, with potential neuroendocrine modulation. The transcriptomic dataset established here facilitates future studies on the molecular mechanisms of feather differentiation and offers a reference for molecular breeding to enhance down feather yield and quality of Beijing ducks.
Pulmonary hypertension (PH) is a progressive disease that severely compromises right ventricular function, characterized by two major pathological features: pulmonary arterial constriction and pulmonary arterial remodeling. Bellidifolin (BEL), a natural ketone compound, exhibits potent anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects; however, its role in PH remains unexplored. This study evaluated the impact of BEL on the two pathological processes: pulmonary arterial constriction and pulmonary arterial remodeling. First, the effects of BEL on pulmonary arterial constriction were evaluated using wire myography. The study revealed that BEL (6-96 μmol/L) inhibited the contraction response of intact endothelial and denuded pulmonary arterial rings precontracted with norepinephrine (1 μmol/L) in a concentration-dependent manner. BEL (90 μmol/L) suppressed pulmonary constriction induced by intracellular calcium release and extracellular calcium influx. In cellular experiments, BEL inhibited the proliferation, migration, and phenotypic transformation of pulmonary arterial smooth muscle cells (PASMCs) induced by 10 μmol/L CoCl2 (72 h), as evidenced by upregulation of the contractile phenotype markers α-SMA and SM22α and downregulation of the synthetic phenotype markers OPN, vimentin, and PCNA. Multi-omics analysis identified Aldh1A1, Mgp, Col4a6, and Igfbp5 as significantly enriched candidates. Among these candidates, Cellular Thermal Shift Assay demonstrated that BEL enhanced the thermal stability of Igfbp5 in PASMCs, suggesting that Igfbp5 may be a potential direct target of BEL. Moreover, KEGG pathway analysis revealed significant enrichment of the PI3K-AKT-mTOR pathway, which is known to be involved in cell proliferation and is regulated by Igfbp5. BEL may inhibit the PI3K-AKT-mTOR pathway by suppressing Igfbp5. The results indicate that BEL may regulate Igfbp5 to inhibit the PI3K-AKT-mTOR pathway, thereby exerting anti-proliferative and inhibitory effects on migration and phenotypic transformation.
This study evaluated the effects of dietary sulphur-containing amino acid (SAA) levels provided during the early (1-28 d) and late (29-63 d) growth stages on production traits and feather follicle gene expression in 63-day-old Jiangnan white goslings. A total of 288 one-day-old male goslings were assigned to a 2 × 2 factorial design with two early SAA levels (0.64% and 0.87%) and two late SAA levels (0.62% and 0.74%), which created four treatments: Dd (low-low), Dg (low-high), Gd (high-low), and Gg (high-high). All measurements were performed on 63-day-old birds. Final body weight was significantly affected only by early SAA levels (p = 0.03), with the high early groups (Gd and Gg) showing a 3% higher weight (3.99 vs. 3.88 kg) than the low early groups. Late SAA levels had no effect on growth but markedly reduced breast muscle cooking loss (p < 0.01) from 26.64% (low late) to 22.70% (high late), which represents a 15% relative improvement in water-holding capacity. A significant early × late interaction (p = 0.03) indicated that late high SAA levels partially compensated for early deficiency. High late SAA levels also slightly reduced dry matter digestibility (73.45% → 73.16%, p = 0.03), while high early SAA levels increased crude ash digestibility (33.59% → 35.66%, p = 0.04). The Dg treatment (low early + high late) caused significantly elevated serum low-density lipoprotein (2.06 vs. 1.42-1.58 mmol/L) and uric acid (348.15 vs. 243.60-294.97 μmol/L), which indicates metabolic stress (p < 0.01 and p = 0.02 for interaction). Transcriptomic analysis of feather follicles from the Gg and Gd groups (both receiving identical high early SAA supplementation) identified 121 differentially expressed genes, including the downregulation of MAT1 (cysteine/methionine metabolism) and upregulation of GHRHR (neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction) in Gg, providing a molecular basis for improved feather growth. q-PCR validated five selected genes. In conclusion, final body weight is determined by early SAA supply, while late SAA supplementation improves meat juiciness, but abrupt increases from low to high SAA levels cause metabolic disturbances. Under this test conditions, The optimal feeding strategy is 0.87% SAAs (1-28 d) followed by 0.74% SAAs (29-63 d).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42346642 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42250720 is a review article
Pregnancy leads to many adaptations in the maternal body, most of which are reversible. However, reproductive experience can also result in permanent effects. Here, we investigated how pregnancy influences the somatotrophic system and the lasting effects of reproductive experience on the maternal organism. Reproductive experience induced a pronounced increase in lean body mass and longitudinal growth in both wild-type and growth hormone (GH)-deficient mice compared with age-matched virgins. Body growth was primarily observed during the first pregnancy, whereas a second gestation was mostly associated with increased adiposity. Data from a cohort of women with isolated GH deficiency (IGHD) caused by a loss-of-function mutation in the GHRHR gene revealed that nulliparous women were 7 cm shorter than those with one or more pregnancies. Increased GH secretion was observed in pregnant wild-type mice but not in pregnant GHRHR-deficient mice. Pregnancy-induced body growth is preserved despite disruption of GH-, ghrelin-, and estrogen-related signaling pathways. In conclusion, reproductive experience induces permanent changes in the maternal organism, promoting body growth in models that allow this response. Pregnancy-induced body growth appears to be independent of GH action. These findings underscore the need for further studies to investigate the long-lasting consequences of reproductive experience in females.
Pathogenic variants in the growth hormone releasing hormone receptor (GHRHR) gene cause severe isolated growth hormone deficiency (IGHD). Over 82 distinct variants have been described, mostly in South and East Asia and Northern Brazil. This study characterizes the phenotypic and genotypic variability of children harboring (likely) pathogenic GHRHR variants, included in the Belgian and Luxembourg Registry for Growth Hormone Treated Children. We retrospectively reviewed clinical, biochemical, genetic and neuroimaging data from seven children with severe IGHD carrying biallelic GHRHR variants. Peak growth hormone (GH) concentrations were measured following insulin and glucagon-induced hypoglycemia. Auxological parameters at diagnosis and pituitary magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings were obtained from medical records. Three children of Syrian origin from two consanguineous families carried a novel likely pathogenic c.367G > T, p.(Glu123*) variant in a homozygous state. Among the four Belgian-origin patients, one was homozygous for a pathogenic c.674_677delinsGCTGTTGGCAGAAG, p.(Val225Gly*fs165) variant, while two siblings were compound heterozygous including this particular variant and an additional pathogenic c.271dupG, p.(Ala91Glyfs*13) frameshift variant. The other Belgian patient was compound heterozygous for the well described likely pathogenic c.431 T > A, p.(Leu144His) variant and a previously undescribed c.150C > A, p.(Asn50Lys) variant. IGHD was diagnosed between 7 months and 7 years. Height SDS at presentation ranged from - 4.6 to - 3.4. Peak GH levels after stimulation were markedly reduced (0.35-3.4 ng/ml), confirming severe growth hormone deficiency (GHD). No dysmorphic features were observed. Anterior pituitary hypoplasia at MRI was seen in six patients. This series expands the geographic spectrum of biallelic GHRHR variants causing severe IGHD. Targeted GHRHR genotyping should be considered in children with early-onset severe IGHD, particularly when anterior pituitary hypoplasia is present and dysmorphic features are absent.• Biallelic GHRHR variants cause severe congenital IGHD with early onset growth failure and markedly reduced GH/IGF-1 (Insulin-like growth factor 1) levels.• This first Belgian registry series broadens the phenotypic and genotypic spectrum of biallelic GHRHR variants. • Identification of a novel likely pathogenic homozygous c.367G > T, p.(Glu123*) variant in two unrelated Syrian families, suggesting a potential founder effect in the Syrian population, as this variant has not been reported elsewhere.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Post-stroke edema is one of the fatal consequences of ischemic stroke where increased intracranial pressure can exacerbate neurological dysfunction leading to mortality. To date, conventional post-stroke therapy has failed to manage cerebral edema and render neuroprotection. Earlier, our lab reported the benefits of intra-arterially administered mesenchymal stem cells (IA MSCs) in alleviating post-stroke vasogenic edema. Recently, post-stroke neuroendocrine regulation involving growth hormone releasing hormone receptor (GHRH-R) analog is gaining attention as one of the potential targets for stroke intervention, adjunctive to the existing conventional therapies. Therefore, the current study aims to explore the combined therapeutic potential of IA MSCs and GHRH-R analogs in resolution of cerebral vasogenic edema following ischemic stroke.Middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) method was used to induce focal ischemic stroke in male Sprague Dawley rats. Further rats were treated with 1 × 105 IA MSCs in combination with GHRH-R analogs at a dose of 10 µg/rat/day. In the short-term study, animals were subjected to neurobehavioral assessments following euthanasia at 24 h post-stroke. Next, infarct size, neuronal viability and extent of apoptosis were assessed by triphenyl-tetrazolium-chloride staining, Nissl staining and TUNEL assay. Protein expressions were evaluated by western blot and immunofluorescence assay, and finally morphological analysis of cellular organelles were performed by transmission electron microscopy. The study was extended for 3-days and 7-days with sustained release GHRH-R agonist (MR-409) using osmotic pump following IA MSCs administration post-stroke. Animals were subjected to different cognitive and behavioral tests. Further blood specimens and vital organs were subjected to toxicological analysis. Finally, expressions of different water channel genes and proteins were checked using transcriptomic analysis and immunofluorescence assay, respectively.Post-stroke administration of IA MSCs and MR-409 combination reduced mitochondria-endoplasmic reticulum (ER) distance, modulated AQP4 expression, leading to reduction in blood-brain-barrier (BBB) disruption in the short term along with resolving vasogenic edema in the long term.The study provides indirect preliminary evidence of combined administration of IA MSCs with sustained release GHRH-R agonist towards increasing the mitochondria-endoplasmic reticulum association, altering the expression of AQP4, maintaining BBB integrity and alleviating post-stroke vasogenic edema.© 2026. The Author(s).
Isolated growth hormone deficiency (IGHD) involves multiple genes, yet characterization of its mutational landscape and genotype-phenotype correlations remains limited. The aim of this study was to analyze a large cohort of patients with genetic IGHD and describe associated genotypes and phenotypes.Descriptive study of IGHD patients with an identified genetic cause was referred for targeted NGS panel analysis through the GENHYPOPIT network between 2017 and 2024, and complementary targeted family analysis.Among 205 patients with IGHD, 23 (11.2%) had a pathogenic (P) or likely pathogenic (LP) variant. The average age at diagnosis was 3.9 years, and 47% of patients had pituitary hypoplasia. Seventy percent of variants were in GH secretion genes, 39% in GH1, mostly with autosomal dominant transmission, 13% in GHRHR, and 18% in GHSR, with autosomal dominant or recessive inheritance and incomplete penetrance. Variants in genes involved in pituitary development were rarer (30% of variants). The most commonly affected pituitary development gene was GLI2 (13%). GLI2 variants were always associated with pituitary stalk interruption syndrome. The remaining variants were in POU1F1 (9%), HESX1 (4%), and SOX3 (4%). We report 10 new P or LP variants. Family analyses (n = 30) broadened the genotype-phenotype correlation, identified de novo variants, as well as the first ever reported case of GH1 mosaicism.Our study broadens the spectrum of genetic variations associated with IGHD. In most cases, the implicated gene is involved in GH secretion, but our results highlight that IGHD can also be caused by genes involved in pituitary development. These findings confirm the importance of genetic analysis in IGHD, to improve patient management and genetic counselling.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Growth hormone-releasing hormone (GHRH) has shown therapeutic potential in the treatment of various diseases. However, the clinical translation of GHRH receptor (GHRH-R) agonists has been hampered by the short half-life and suboptimal activity. Herein, we report a series of hybrid GHRH analogs developed using sulfono-γ-AA peptide-based peptidomimetic optimization. These hybrid peptides exhibit significantly enhanced potency in activating GHRH-R and stimulating growth hormone release while demonstrating markedly improved serum stability (T1/2 > 24 h). Subcutaneous administration of selected peptides in mice with ischemic hindlimb enhanced blood perfusion and preservation of limb function. They also promoted endothelial regeneration and collateral vessel formation, enhancing vascular remodeling and tissue repair. In vitro, the peptides enhanced the angiogenic potential of endothelial cells, primarily through activation of the ERK signaling pathway. Our findings lay a strong foundation for the development of long-acting GHRH-R agonists with promising therapeutic potential for the treatment of vascular and regenerative disease.
Growth hormone (GH) insensitivity syndrome (GHIS) is a childhood growth disorder characterized by an inability to generate insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) in response to GH. Consequently, GH therapy is ineffective in patients with GHIS. Patients are often treated with recombinant IGF-1 instead, which requires twice-daily injections and is associated with adverse effects including hypoglycemia. In the current study, we evaluated CV1623-1, a cartilage-targeted antibody-like IGF-1 fusion protein as a potential new treatment for GHIS and for other disorders of linear growth involving IGF-1 deficiency. Using Ghrhrlit mice as a model for IGF-1 deficiency, we found that CV1623-1 stimulated the growth plate at a lower dose and decreased dose frequency compared with IGF-1. Alternate-day injections of CV1623-1 significantly increased body weight, tail length, and tibial bone length. In addition, CV1623-1, unlike IGF-1, did not induce hypoglycemia. Taken together, our findings indicate that CV1623-1 represents a promising new drug candidate for GHIS with improved efficacy, longer duration of action, and reduced hypoglycemia compared with the current treatment, recombinant IGF-1. Preclinical studies and clinical trials would be required to further validate the safety and efficacy of CV1623-1, paving the way for its potential clinical application as a new treatment for GHIS.Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skeletal muscle fiber composition plays a critical role in determining muscle growth and meat quality in livestock species. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying muscle fiber-type transformation in meat rabbits remain poorly understood.Here, we integrated transcriptomic and label-free proteomic analyses to investigate skeletal muscle development in Ira rabbits at three developmental stages (D0, D35, and D70). Immunofluorescence staining revealed a gradual increase in slow-twitch muscle fibers in the gastrocnemius during postnatal growth. Enzyme activity assays showed decreased lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activity and increased succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) activity, indicating a metabolic shift toward oxidative metabolism. Transcriptomic analysis identified thousands of differentially expressed genes across developmental stages, whereas proteomic profiling revealed numerous differentially expressed proteins associated with metabolic pathways. We identified ten candidate genes (NOS1, CASQ2, ANKRD1, ANKRD2, CXCL10, GPC3, NEDD4, MYORG, MYLK2, EZH2) and nine key proteins (TRAF3IP3, APBB2, PGK1, TMCO5A, PKM, PVALB, PDLIM7, PHKG1, PHKA1) that may be associated with muscle fiber-type transformation during postnatal skeletal muscle development. Functional enrichment analysis indicated that these molecules were associated with multiple metabolic pathways including glycolysis/gluconeogenesis and butanoate metabolism.These findings provide a multi-omics perspective on skeletal muscle development in rabbits and contribute to a better understanding of the molecular basis of muscle fiber-type transformation during postnatal growth.© 2026. The Author(s).
Primary brain calcification (PBC) is a genetic disease featuring movement disorders, cognitive impairment, and/or psychiatric symptoms. Computed tomography (CT) scan identifies brain calcification but poorly correlates with patients' clinical phenotype; the role of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is yet undefined.Describing white matter (WM) changes and clinical correlates in PBC.Fifty PBC patients and 50 age-matched controls underwent 3 T brain MRI. Patients also underwent brain CT scan, genetic analysis, and clinical and neuropsychological evaluation. Two patterns of supratentorial WM changes were observed: a leukodystrophic band-like and a scattered vascular-like one that were characterized based on anatomical location and severity. Cerebellar WM alterations were also described. Comparison tests and multivariate analysis were applied.WM abnormalities were found in 41/50 patients and 32/50 controls. Supratentorial band-like leukopathy was observed in 21/25 patients with centrum semiovale calcifications, involved the deep/periventricular regions with intermediate sparing (19/21), was frequently severe (15/21), diffuse (10/21) or with anterior prevalence (10/21), and mostly associated with MYORG (8/9) and PDGFB/PDGFRB (5/8) mutations. The prevalence and severity of vascular-like scattered abnormalities did not differ between patients and controls. Cerebellar leukopathy was present in 16/50 patients, being severe in 11/16, frequently observed in MYORG patients (9/10), and associated with band-like supratentorial leukopathy (16/16) and cerebellar hemispheric calcifications. WM involvement correlated with cognitive impairment, parkinsonism, psychiatric disturbances (band-like pattern, P = 0.02), and cerebellar symptoms (cerebellar leukopathy, P = 0.002).WM alterations are frequent in PBC and may be an expression of leukodystrophy-like tissue changes, being a potential imaging biomarker of cognitive impairment, parkinsonism severity, and cerebellar dysfunction. © 2026 The Author(s). Movement Disorders published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.© 2026 The Author(s). Movement Disorders published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41591078 is a review article
Objective: The genetic causes of obesity are complex and include diabetes and obesity monogenic syndromes like autosomal recessive Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS). Other clinical manifestations of this syndrome include metabolic disorders, polydactyly, retinal dystrophy, and endocrine, urological, and neurological abnormalities. Moreover, isolated clinical manifestations have been described in carriers of heterozygous mutations in BBS genes. On the other hand, Fahr's disease is characterized by the accumulation of calcium deposits in various areas within the brain, leading to neurodegeneration, and the course of the disease is variable. Case presentation: We present the case of a 21-year-old female with severe obesity, diagnosed at the age of six years. The patient also experienced hypertension, hyperlipidemia, insulin resistance, and polycystic ovarian syndrome. During an MRI examination, hyperintensity in the region of the dentate nuclei and hyperintensity in the globus pallidus were described. NGS (next-generation sequencing) results showed a heterozygous variant in the TMEM67 gene, which revealed the patient to be a carrier of BBS, and a homozygotic variant in the MYORG gene, leading to a Fahr's disease diagnosis. However, due to an insufficient number of phenotypic criteria and only one causative variant in the TMEM67 gene, the diagnosis of BBS could not be established. Conclusions: Attempts to identify the cause of obesity can lead to unexpected results, which can be resolved through collaboration between clinicians of different specialties and the use of NGS molecular testing. The status of being a BBS carrier, which coexists with Fahr's disease, may be a potential contributing factor to severe obesity and metabolic disorders in the patient.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41212990 is a review article
Bilateral basal ganglia calcifications (BGCs), if severe, are known hallmarks for idiopathic BGC disease (IBGC), but if milder, are often considered radiological findings of unknown significance. In previous studies, only a minority of patients with BGC had monogenic forms of IBGC.We studied consecutive patients from a tertiary neurology clinic with bilateral BGCs of variable severity, and their families. We analyzed known IBGC genes, and an extended panel of genes linked to monogenic stroke and metabolic conditions. Clinical, radiological, and genetic data were collected, including vascular risk factors, cerebrovascular events, imaging findings (total calcification score, white matter hyperintensities, ischemic/hemorrhagic lesions), and relevant family history.Twenty-four families with BGCs and neurological symptoms were analyzed. Disease-causing variants were identified in 14 families (58.3%). Eight patients had IBGC (variants in SLC20A2, PDGFB, MYORG), 4 had mitochondrial disease (MT-TL1), and 2 had monogenic vascular conditions (GAL, MAP3K6). Three variants were novel. BGC severity was highest in IBGC cases, while vascular and mitochondrial cases had milder calcifications. White matter hyperintensities were seen in 94.7% of cases and correlated highly with the total calcification score. Clinical vascular events had occurred in 41.7% cases. No monogenic cause was found in 10 patients, although many of these showed clinical or radiological features suggestive of monogenic disease.Bilateral BGCs can occur in many neurogenetic disorders apart from IBGCs, and a broader genetic search increases the diagnostic yield. Patients with BGCs frequently had clinical cerebrovascular events, which emphasizes the role of cerebrovascular pathology in BGCs.© 2025. The Author(s).
To investigate the clinical characteristics and genetic etiology of a primary familial brain calcification (PFBC) family, and analyze the pathogenic mechanism of MYORG gene variants.A 17-year-old female who presented to the Second Affiliated Hospital of Zhejiang University School of Medicine on 13 May 2024 with "paroxysmal limb twitching for 1 day" was enrolled. The patient and her parents underwent clinical evaluation and neuroimaging. Peripheral blood samples were collected for whole exome sequencing (WES). Candidate variants were confirmed by Sanger sequencing and interpreted using the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics (ACMG) Standards and Guidelines for the Interpretation of Sequence Variants (hereinafter referred to as the ACMG Guidelines). This study was approved by Medical Ethics Committee of the Second Affiliated Hospital of Zhejiang University School of Medicine (Ethics No. 2020-674).The patient experienced epileptic seizures. Cranial CT revealed multiple calcifications in the bilateral basal ganglia and cerebellum, with a total calcification score of 23. WES identified compound heterozygous variants in MYORG: c.337_348dup (p.Leu113_Arg116dup), a known pathogenic variant, and c.1268T>G (p.Val423Gly). Segregation analysis showed that the father carried the c.337_348dup heterozygous variant, whereas the mother carried the c.1268T>G heterozygous variant. According to ACMG guidelines, the c.1268T>G variant was classified as "likely pathogenic" (PM2_Supporting + PM3_Supporting + PP1_Supporting + PP3_Moderate + PP4_Supporting).The novel compound heterozygous MYORG variants c.337_348dup and c.1268T>G have broadened the mutational spectrum of the MYORG gene and further supported compound heterozygosity as an important genetic mechanism in MYORG-related PFBC.
The genetic role and specific effects of primary familial cerebral calcification (PFBC) are still unclear. We aim to analyze bibliometric features in studies related to PFBC, investigate variant detection rates in patients with brain calcifications, and examine the phenotypic characteristics of PFBC patients. A comprehensive search of studies on the genetic effects of PFBC up until December 31, 2024, was conducted across Web of Science, PubMed, Embase, and Scopus. A random-effects meta-analysis combined variant detection rates for genes SLC20A2, PDGFRB, PDGFB, XPR1, MYORG, JAM2, CMPK2, and NAA60 Data on total calcification scores (TCS), age of onset, and the prevalence of various phenotypes in PFBC patients were also aggregated. Publication bias was assessed using Egger's linear regression, and a leave-one-out sensitivity analysis was performed. Of 1,267 records, 224 were included in the bibliometric analysis. Keywords "primary familial brain calcification" and "SLC20A2" were most prominent. Eighteen articles were included in the meta-analysis, revealing higher variant rates for SLC20A2 (16.7%, 95% CI: 10.0-24.6) and MYORG (16.8%, 95% CI: 0.0-54.0), which were associated with higher TCS. The average age of onset was 43.69 years (95% CI: 36.17-51.21). Cognitive impairment (45.3%, 95% CI: 35.7-55.1) and psychiatric symptoms (30.8%, 95% CI: 17.2-46.2) had relatively higher prevalence rates. No significant publication bias was found (p > 0.05), and the sensitivity analysis confirmed the results' robustness. SLC20A2 and MYORG variants had higher detection rates, with cognitive impairment and psychiatric symptoms being common in PFBC patients. Continued research is essential to further explore these genetic variants.Copyright © 2025 Yang et al.
Primary brain calcification (PBC), genetically heterogeneous disorder, is characterized by abnormal calcification deposition in various brain regions, including the bilateral basal nuclei. The disease presents with a variety of symptoms, including cognitive impairment, parkinsonism, psychiatric signs or even remains asymptomatic.We herein present a case of a 39-year-old man with a homozygous rare variant with unknown pathological significance (c.284 T > C, pLeu95Pro) in the major causative gene, MYORG for PBC. He presented to the hospital with mild speech disorder and ataxia. Over the years, dysarthria and ataxia progressed. Brain computed tomography (CT) scans were performed almost annually and evaluated using the total calcification score (TCS). The calcified part of the brain was observed in three-dimensional while rotating, and the total calcification volume was measured using an image analyzer.The TCSs remained unchanged, however, the image analyzer clearly showed the calcified area in the brain and an increasing calcification volume in the same CT machine and under the same condition.The evaluation method is very useful for the three-dimensional observation and quantification of calcification.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This study aimed to identify causal variants associated with important carcass traits such as weight and meat quality in Hanwoo cattle. We analyzed missense mutations extracted from imputed sequence data (ARS-UCD1.2) and performed an exon-specific association test on the carcass traits of 16,970 commercial Hanwoo. We found 33, 2, 1, and 3 significant SNPs associated with carcass weight (CW), backfat thickness (BFT), eye muscle area (EMA), and marbling score (MS), respectively. In CW and EMA, the most significant missense SNP was identified at 19,524,263 on BTA14 and involved the PRKDC. A missense SNP in the ZFAND2B, located at 107,160,304 on BTA2 was identified as being involved in BFT. For MS, missense SNP in the ACVR2B gene, located at 11,849,704 in BTA22 was identified as the most significant marker. The contribution of the most significant missense SNPs to genetic variance was confirmed to be 8.47%, 2.08%, 1.73%, and 1.19% in CW, BFT, EMA, and MS, respectively. We generated favorable and unfavorable haplotype combinations based on the significant SNPs for CW. Significant differences in GEBV (Genomic Estimated Breeding Values) were observed between groups with each favorable and unfavorable haplotype combination. In particular, the missense SNPs in PRKDC, MRPL9, and ANKFN1 appear to significantly affect the protein's function and structure, making them strong candidates as causal mutations. These missense SNPs have the potential to serve as valuable markers for improving carcass traits in Hanwoo commercial farms.
Breast cancer is one of the most common malignancies among women. Recent studies revealed that differentially methylated regions (DMRs) are implicated in regulating gene expression. The goal of this research was to determine which genes and pathways are dysregulated in breast cancer when their promoters are methylated in an abnormal way, leading to differential expression. Whole-genome bisulfite sequencing was applied to analyze DMRs for eight peripheral blood samples collected from five Saudi females diagnosed with stages I and II of breast cancer aligned with three normal females. Three of those patients and three normal samples were used to determine differentially expressed genes (DEG) using Illumina platform NovaSeq PE150.Based on ontology (GO) and KEGG pathways, the analysis indicated that DMGs and DEG are closely related to associated processes, such as ubiquitin-protein transferase activity, ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis, and oxidative phosphorylation. The findings indicated a potentially significant association between global hypomethylation and breast cancer in Saudi patients. Our results revealed 81 differentially promoter-methylated and expressed genes. The most significant differentially methylated and expressed genes found in gene ontology (GO) are pumilio RNA binding family member 1 (PUM1) and zinc finger AN1-type containing 2B (ZFAND2B) also known as (AIRAPL).The essential outcomes of this study suggested that aberrant hypermethylation at crucial genes that have significant parts in the molecular pathways of breast cancer could be used as a potential prognostic biomarker for breast cancer.© 2023 Sindi et al.
Musculoskeletal complications in type 2 diabetes (T2DM) are inadequately captured by body mass index (BMI). Waist-to-BMI ratio (WBR) may better reflect adverse body composition. We examined cross-sectional and longitudinal associations between WBR and musculoskeletal disorders in T2DM.This two-phase study was conducted within an ongoing hospital-based cohort at the First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian Medical University (Fuzhou, China). The cross-sectional analysis included 4157 adults with T2DM recruited between March 2012 and August 2023 (54.3% men; mean age 59.4 ± 10.3 years), using data from their first assessment. Associations of waist circumference (WC), waist-to-height ratio (WHtR), waist-to-hip ratio (WHR), BMI and WBR with osteopenia, sarcopenia, sarcopenic osteopenia (SOs), sarcopenic obesity (SOb) and fractures were evaluated. The prospective cohort comprised a longitudinal subset enrolled between March 2012 and June 2022, ensuring at least 1 year of follow-up prior to administrative censoring in August 2023. A total of 440 individuals (57.0% men; mean age 59.7 ± 9.7 years) were followed for a median of 34.0 months (20.0-57.0). Associations between time-dependent WBR and incident outcomes were assessed using Cox models. A nested exploratory analysis was conducted within the cohort. Thirty participants with extreme annualised WBR change (ΔWBR/yr) were selected. Baseline serum samples collected at enrolment, prior to outcome occurrence, were analysed using phage immunoprecipitation sequencing (PhIP-Seq).Cross-sectionally, WBR was negatively correlated with bone mineral density and appendicular skeletal muscle mass index and positively correlated with osteopenia, sarcopenia, SOs, SOb and fractures (all p < 0.01), whereas BMI, WC, WHtR and WHR showed weaker associations. After adjustment, higher WBR was independently associated with osteopenia (men: OR 1.723, 95% CI 1.614-1.840; women: OR 1.420, 1.348-1.495), sarcopenia (men: OR 4.779, 4.165-5.484; women: OR 2.991, 2.683-3.334), SOs (men: OR 6.261, 5.314-7.377; women: OR 4.336, 3.753-5.010), SOb (men: OR 4.737, 3.975-5.646; women: OR 4.652, 3.715-5.825) and fractures (men: OR 1.236, 1.093-1.397; women: OR 1.103, 1.003-1.213; all p < 0.05). Prospectively, higher time-dependent WBR predicted incident osteopenia (HR 1.365, 95% CI 1.024-1.820), sarcopenia (HR 1.282, 1.086-1.512), SOs (HR 1.408, 1.176-1.686), SOb (HR 1.634, 1.262-2.116) and fractures (HR 1.369, 1.029-1.821). PhIP-Seq analysis identified differential autoantibody reactivity related to muscle structural organisation and cytoskeletal regulation, while bone-related differences were enriched in Wnt signalling and hormone-related pathways.Higher WBR and longitudinal increases were independently associated with osteopenia, sarcopenia, sarcopenic phenotypes and fractures in individuals with T2DM.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cachexia, Sarcopenia and Muscle published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Accurate diagnosis of periprosthetic joint infection (PJI) is critical yet challenging. The role of autoantibodies in PJI remains largely unexplored. In this study, we employed phage display immunoprecipitation sequencing (PhIP-Seq) to profile PJI-associated autoantibodies and assess their diagnostic utility in PJI.We collected plasma samples from a cohort of 45 patients, including 25 with PJI, 9 with aseptic loosening, and 11 post-primary arthroplasty without complications. Initially, PhIP-Seq screening was performed on 10 samples (five PJI and five post-primary arthroplasty) to identify significantly differentially expressed autoantibodies. Subsequently, the immunoglobulin G (IgG) levels of these specific autoantibodies were quantified in the plasma of all participants via ELISA, and statistical analysis was performed to evaluate their diagnostic performance in PJI.PhIP-Seq identified IFT80 and VPS54 as PJI-associated autoantigens. ELISA confirmed significantly elevated levels of corresponding IgG antibodies in PJI patients compared to those with aseptic loosening or post-primary arthroplasty (p < 0.01). Both autoantibodies demonstrated preliminary diagnostic performance: IFT80 achieved an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.797 (sensitivity = 56.0%, specificity = 95.0%), while VPS54 yielded an AUC of 0.776 (sensitivity = 72.0%, specificity = 75.0%). A combined diagnostic model integrating both biomarkers further enhanced the diagnostic performance (AUC = 0.810, sensitivity = 68.0%, specificity = 80.0%).This study establishes IFT80 and VPS54 as novel autoantibodies in PJI. Their corresponding autoantibodies exhibit robust diagnostic potential, offering support for the development of serological assays to improve PJI diagnosis.Copyright © 2026 Chang, Ma and Xu.
Fatigue is common and debilitating in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), but its etiology remains unclear. Phage-display immunoprecipitation sequencing (PhIP-Seq) was used to profile systemic antibodies against 344,000 rationally selected peptide antigens in 327 patients with IBD, assessing associations with fatigue severity across quartiles and in a remission sub-cohort. No individual antibody remained significant after multiple testing correction. However, aggregation-based analyses identified recurring differences involving Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), influenza virus, and Staphylococcus antigens. Higher fatigue was associated with lower responses to EBV early antigen protein D (EA-D) and higher responses to EBV nuclear antigens (EBNA-1, EBNA-3), as well as influenza M1/M2 proteins and Staphylococcus clumping factor B. These patterns were not statistically robust and may reflect random variation or disease-/exposure-related factors. Given broader evidence linking EBV-related immune responses to immune-mediated diseases, these observations warrant further investigation. Overall, this study illustrates challenges of linking high-dimensional immune data to complex clinical symptoms.© 2026 The Authors.
Defining immune dysregulation during the asymptomatic prodrome of immune-mediated diseases offers opportunities for early disease detection and interception. In inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), prodromal immune changes remain poorly characterised.To define preclinical immunological alterations by characterising longitudinal serum antibody repertoires using high-throughput phage-display immunoprecipitation sequencing (PhIP-Seq).We applied PhIP-Seq to profile antibody responses in 2000 longitudinal serum samples from 200 individuals who developed Crohn's disease (CD), 200 who developed ulcerative colitis (UC) and 100 matched healthy controls within the US military Proteomic Evaluation and Discovery in an IBD Cohort of Tri-service Subjects cohort, collected up to 10 years before diagnosis. Antibody repertoires were profiled against 357 000 microbial-associated, viral-associated, food-associated and immune-associated peptides.Antibody repertoire variability was increased up to ~4 years prediagnosis in pre-CD and pre-UC individuals. Differential analyses revealed elevated herpesvirus-directed responses (notably Epstein-Barr virus) and anti-flagellin antibodies up to 10 years prediagnosis in CD, particularly in individuals who later developed complicated or ileal disease. In contrast, responses to encapsulated bacteria (eg, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus, Neisseria) progressively declined towards diagnosis. Pre-UC was characterised by combined antimicrobial, antiviral and autoantibody signatures, including antibodies against the MAP kinase-activating death domain protein.Large-scale serological profiling of archived prediagnostic samples identified disease-specific immune trajectories years before IBD onset, providing novel insights into disease pathogenesis in its prodromal phase.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Non-hydrogenative parahydrogen-induced polarization (nh-PHIP) is an NMR sensitivity enhancement technique that is particularly suitable for studying biological samples. It can provide up to three orders of magnitude signal enhancements for a continuously expanding range of valuable analyte classes like drugs, vitamins, nucleobases, nucleosides and nucleotides, amino acids, oligopeptides, etc. The strengths of nh-PHIP lay in its modest instrumental requirements over a standard commercial NMR spectrometer, its simple operating workflow that is similar to traditional NMR spectroscopy, and its proven capability to offer quantitative information from below the sensitivity barrier of regular NMR. This tutorial will give an overview of the background, the principles, and the present application scope of nh-PHIP hyperpolarization. We provide guidelines for setting up an nh-PHIP experiment, from sample preparation to optimizing the hyperpolarization for a particular analyte class. This includes the description of the basic experimental setup and outlining the considerations for method development. An overview of different available nh-PHIP pulse sequences will be given to assist the reader in implementing nh-PHIP.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
2-Amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP) is a major heat-induced contaminant in protein-rich foods, yet its effects on intestinal barrier homeostasis and luminal microecology remain insufficiently defined. In this study, adult zebrafish were exposed to dietary PhIP for 90 days at estimated intake doses of 0.006, 0.4, and 7.2 mg/kg bw/day to evaluate intestinal injury, microbial dysbiosis, and metabolic remodeling. PhIP exposure impaired growth-related indices and induced progressive intestinal lesions, accompanied by mucus barrier depletion, reduced goblet cell abundance, and downregulation of muc2. Tight junction integrity was disrupted, as indicated by decreased zo-1, occludin, and claudin1 expression, weakened ZO-1 and Claudin-1 immunofluorescence signals, and reduced tight junction-related protein levels. Serum LPS and intestinal pro-inflammatory cytokines were markedly elevated, whereas il-10 expression was suppressed, indicating increased endotoxin burden and inflammatory activation. 16S rRNA gene sequencing revealed Proteobacteria-enriched dysbiosis and exposure-associated shifts in candidate genera, including Chitinilyticum, Shewanella, Aeromonas, Acinetobacter, Microbacterium, and Reyranella. Untargeted metabolomics further identified luminal metabolic remodeling involving lipid-related compounds, organic acids, amino acid metabolism, arachidonic acid metabolism, the citrate cycle, and pathways related to choline and glycerophospholipid metabolism. Association analysis linked genus-level microbial variation and core pathway-related metabolites with LPS, inflammatory cytokines, and tight junction markers. These findings indicate that dietary PhIP exposure disrupts intestinal barrier homeostasis in parallel with Proteobacteria-related dysbiosis and luminal metabolic remodeling, providing an integrated microbiota-metabolite-barrier association framework for evaluating intestinal risks of heat-induced food contaminants.
The resurrection plant Selaginella bryopteris (Selaginellaceae), commonly known as 'Sanjeevani', exhibits remarkable desiccation tolerance and rapid recovery upon rehydration. This study investigated the physiological responses of the resurrection plant S. bryopteris during a complete desiccation-rehydration-desiccation cycle using relative water content, chlorophyll content, chlorophyll fluorescence, and JIP-test analyses. Physiological responses were evaluated using five biological replicates and three technical replicates, with statistical significance at p < 0.05. During rehydration, RWC increased from nearly 0 to 85% within 30 h, accompanied by a 214% increase in chlorophyll content. Recovery of photosynthetic activity was evidenced by approximately 10-fold and 11-fold increases in maximum fluorescence (Fm) and active reaction centre density (RC/CS), respectively. Similarly, the maximum quantum yield of primary photochemistry (φP0) and electron transport efficiency (φE0) increased by about 800% and 775%, indicating rapid restoration of PSII functionality and electron transport capacity. Performance index (PIcs) increased by more than 1700%, reflecting coordinated recovery of the photosynthetic apparatus. During subsequent dehydration, photosynthetic parameters remained relatively stable during the initial phase of water loss but declined sharply thereafter. RC/CS, φP0, φE0, and PIcs decreased progressively, whereas energy dissipation parameters (DI0/RC and φD0) increased, indicating a shift from photochemical energy utilization to thermal energy dissipation. OJIP analysis revealed that recovery was both sequential and biphasic, with rapid restoration of PSII photochemistry preceding slower recovery of downstream electron transport processes. The findings indicate that reversible PSII downregulation, preservation of reaction-centre functionality, and controlled energy dissipation collectively contribute to desiccation tolerance in S. bryopteris.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s13205-026-04952-3.© King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Hyperpolarized 13C Magnetic Resonance Imaging (HP-MRI) enables real-time, non-invasive assessment of metabolism in diseases including cancer and neurodegeneration. Broader adoption has been limited by the complexity, duration, and lack of standardization of current hyperpolarization methods. This study evaluated POLARIS Preclinical, a parahydrogen-induced polarization (PHIP) hyperpolarizer designed to streamline production of hyperpolarized 13C agents. Four POLARIS systems were deployed across eight international research centers to produce hyperpolarized [1-13C]pyruvate doses within 90 seconds. In vitro and in vivo imaging was conducted in multiple animal models using MRI systems operating at 1.4, 3, 7, and 9.4 Tesla. Metabolic conversion of pyruvate to lactate and bicarbonate was successfully measured across all sites. POLARIS enabled rapid, reproducible production of hyperpolarized [1-13C]pyruvate and demonstrated consistent performance across instruments, institutions, and field strengths. These results support standardized, high-throughput metabolic MRI for multicenter studies and translational research in oncology, neurology, and cardiovascular disease.
Magnetic resonance (MR) is a powerful non-invasive technique for probing structural, functional, and metabolic processes with high spatial and temporal resolution. However, its inherently low sensitivity restricts broader applications. The use of hyperpolarized contrast agents has thus, emerged as an attractive approach to overcome this limitation and expand the capabilities. Among the available hyperpolarization techniques, parahydrogen-induced polarization (PHIP) provides a rapid and cost-efficient means to enhance magnetic resonance signals substantially. Yet, direct hyperpolarization of biomolecules, metabolites, or pharmaceuticals in vivo remains challenging, necessitating the development of versatile molecular tags and probes for hyperpolarized magnetic resonance (HP-MR). In particular, imparting specific sensing functions-such as pH responsiveness and enzyme activity detection-to these HP molecular tags is of growing importance. Herein, we introduce pyridine N-oxides as hyperpolarizable molecular tags and present [15N, D]-labeled 2-alkenylpyridine N-oxides as highly efficient candidates for HP-MR with up to 47% 15N spin polarization. This performance opens pathways for broad potential in biomedical and preclinical HP-MR applications. The systems feature long 15N spin-lattice relaxation times (up to T1 = 477 s), broad functional-group compatibility, and excellent structural tunability. Their practical utility is exemplified by pH and H2O2 sensing and monitoring enzymatic reactions in water.© 2026 The Author(s). Angewandte Chemie International Edition published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Organic room-temperature phosphorescence (RTP) materials have attracted extensive attention for their promising applications. However, they frequently suffer from severe deactivation under extreme conditions (aqueous environment and high temperature) and rely exclusively on ultraviolet (UV) excitation, which greatly limits their reliability and utility. Herein, we present an efficient supramolecular assembly strategy to achieve visible light-activated organic phosphorescence under extreme environments, including various aqueous media (acidic, alkaline, oxidizing, or reducing solutions) and high temperature. AC@AMD is constructed via hydrogen bonds and covalent interactions between aromatic acid (AC) and ammelide (AMD), providing a rigid microenvironment. This structure effectively reduces the singlet-triplet energy gap (ΔEST) and enhances spin-orbit coupling (SOC), endowing AC@AMD with efficient RTP: phosphorescence quantum yield (ΦP) up to 34.31% and lifetime (τP) of 1094.99 ms. Moreover, the formation of hydrogen-bonding networks further enhanced the rigidity of AC@AMD, making them with the excellent phosphorescence features in aqueous solutions. More importantly, the compact lamellar structure and the strong stability of the matrix skeleton structure of AC@AMD due to the presence of abundant N─C═N and N─C═O bonds endow them with excellent tolerance to various extreme aqueous solutions and high temperature. In view of the above-mentioned advantages, information encryption, anti-counterfeiting labeling, and bioimaging applications are demonstrated.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Muir-Torre syndrome (MTs) is a rare autosomal dominant disorder characterized by sebaceous neoplasms and internal malignancies, most commonly colorectal and urothelial cancers. Prostate cancer is exceptionally rare in MTs, with only thirteen cases reported to date.We present the case of a 65-year-old male initially diagnosed with MTs following the development of multiple sebaceous tumors and identification of a heterozygous MSH6 mutation. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated isolated loss of MSH6 protein expression, with preserved microsatellite stability - an unusual finding in MTs. Despite two negative prostate biopsies and a transurethral resection, choline positron emission tomography imaging revealed hypermetabolic pelvic and cervical lymph nodes. Excisional biopsy confirmed metastatic prostate adenocarcinoma (NKX3.1-positive). The patient received first-line androgen deprivation therapy with an LH-RH analog and apalutamide, achieving a sustained biochemical response. He remained alive and on treatment with undetectable PSA 3 years later, at the age of 74.This case highlights the diagnostic challenges of prostate cancer in MTs and the need to consider metastatic disease in atypical presentations, especially when MMR deficiency is suspected.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Introduction Basal cell markers and prostate lineage markers are routinely used as diagnostic adjuncts in prostatic epithelial lesions. High-molecular-weight cytokeratin (HMWCK/34βE12) highlights basal cells, whereas NKX3.1 is a prostate-restricted nuclear transcription factor with established diagnostic value in prostatic adenocarcinoma. The present study evaluated the diagnostic expression pattern of HMWCK and NKX3.1 and assessed whether NKX3.1 expression was associated with adverse clinicopathological parameters. Materials and methods This prospective observational study included 58 evaluable prostatic epithelial neoplasms received over 24 months at a tertiary care institute. HMWCK and NKX3.1 immunohistochemistry were performed on formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue. NKX3.1 was scored as 0 (0% positive tumor cells), 1 (1-50%), and 2 (51-100%). Statistical analysis included chi-square/Fisher's exact tests, Mann-Whitney U test, Spearman correlation, and logistic regression. Serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA) values were available for analysis in 42 adenocarcinoma cases. Results The final cohort included 57 prostatic adenocarcinomas and one high-grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia. Among carcinoma cases, the mean age was 68.09 ± 8.04 years. HMWCK was absent in all adenocarcinoma cases, while NKX3.1 was positive in 55/57 cases (96.5%). NKX3.1 scores were 0 in two cases (3.5%), 1 in 30 cases (52.6%), and 2 in 25 cases (43.9%). Worst Gleason Grade Group showed a weak but significant inverse correlation with NKX3.1 score (Spearman rho = -0.286, p = 0.031). Perineural invasion (PNI) showed the strongest association with NKX3.1 expression; reduced NKX3.1 expression was present in 20/22 PNI-positive tumors compared with 12/35 PNI-negative tumors (p < 0.001; OR 19.17). Serum PSA also correlated inversely with NKX3.1 score among cases with available values (rho = -0.367, p = 0.017), and core involvement percentage correlated inversely with NKX3.1 score (rho = -0.365, p = 0.006). Conclusions HMWCK and NKX3.1 showed complementary diagnostic utility in prostatic adenocarcinoma. HMWCK supported invasive adenocarcinoma by demonstrating basal cell loss, while NKX3.1 was retained in most carcinomas as a sensitive prostatic lineage marker. Reduced NKX3.1 expression was associated with higher worst Grade Group, PNI, serum PSA, tumor core involvement, and adverse clinical status. The strongest association was observed between PNI and reduced NKX3.1 expression.Copyright © 2026, Singh et al.
Androgens and the androgen receptor (AR) play critical roles in prostate cancer (PCa) development and progression. Consequently, primary treatment strategies target either androgen synthesis or androgen-AR interactions. Although initially effective, tumors frequently recur as androgen-independent and more aggressive disease. In recurrent tumors, AR signaling often remains active through AR mutations or activation of alternative signaling pathways. Earlier studies from our laboratory had identified GPR56 (ADGRG1/GPCR205), an adhesion GPCR, as a possible membrane androgen receptor. Here, we demonstrate that GPR56, is significantly overexpressed in PCa tissues at both the transcript and protein levels and is associated with poor patient survival. Functional studies revealed that GPR56 promotes PCa cell proliferation and migration. Furthermore, GPR56 regulates the expression of key androgen-responsive genes, including KLK3 (PSA), FOXA1, TMPRSS2, and NKX3.1 and many others, across multiple prostate cell models. This study demonstrates that Testosterone (T) stimulation of cells expressing GPR56, activates the G13-RhoA-PKN1 signaling pathway, resulting in enhanced PKN1 expression and activation. This leads to AR-PKN1 interaction and increased transcriptional activity of AR target genes. Further T-stimulation activates serum response factor (SRF)-dependent transcription activating the RhoA-ROCK1-MLCK axis, leading to robust actin polymerization, a process associated with increased tumor cell motility and metastatic potential. Collectively, these findings shed light on the role of GPR56 in AR signaling and PCa. Further, the identification of a previously unrecognized GPR56-G13-PKN1 axis which interacts with AR and possibly SRF to enhance AR target gene activity, presents GPR56 as a promising therapeutic target especially in case of advanced PCa.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Metastatic involvement of the male genitourinary tract by lung cancer is exceedingly rare. We report a 56-year-old man with metastatic lung adenocarcinoma (initial stage T3N2M1b) under pembrolizumab, who presented with severe pelvic pain. Pelvic magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography demonstrated a large mass with an imaging epicentre favouring the left seminal vesicle, involving the prostate and fistulising to the distal rectum, without pelvic ascites or peritoneal disease. A total PSA of 0.81 ng/mL and a previous negative prostate biopsy made a primary prostatic malignancy less likely. Biopsy of the rectal component revealed a poorly differentiated carcinoma with an immunophenotype (CK7+, TTF-1+, p40-, CDX2-, NKX3.1-, PAX8-) consistent with metastatic adenocarcinoma of pulmonary origin. The patient underwent palliative pelvic radiotherapy, with improvement of pelvic pain; he subsequently developed pneumaturia and faecaluria and died eight months later from disease progression. Seminal vesicle metastasis from lung carcinoma has been reported previously; to our knowledge, however, this is the first report presenting with rectal fistulisation. This case highlights a diagnostically challenging presentation and the need to consider metastatic disease when evaluating atypical seminal vesicle masses in oncological patients.
We report a rare case of adenocarcinoma with endometrioid features in an 80-year-old male with a history of long-term hormonal therapy for prostate cancer. Over a 13-year course of estrogen therapy, multiple lesions developed sequentially, beginning approximately three years after treatment initiation. These lesions involved the left vas deferens, prostatic urethra, and left pelvic-to-inguinal region. Histologically, the prostatic lesion showed adenocarcinoma with endometrioid features, whereas the other lesions demonstrated features reminiscent of atypical endometrial hyperplasia or an ovarian-type endometrioid borderline tumor. Notably, all specimens showed a consistent immunoprofile characterized by positivity for PAX8, ER, PgR, and negativity for NKX3.1, supporting a Müllerian origin. Although previous reports have suggested an association between endometrioid tumors and estrogen therapy for prostate cancer, this case is distinctive in that sustained tumor regression and long-term survival were achieved solely through discontinuation of estrogen therapy. The clinical course and anatomical distribution of the lesions suggest a possibility of multicentric development from Müllerian remnants under prolonged hormonal stimulation.© The Author(s) under exclusive licence to The Japan Society of Clinical Oncology 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
The development of functional human vasculature is essential for tissue engineering, disease modeling, and regenerative medicine. Conventional differentiation protocols of vascular lineages often exhibit lineage heterogeneity and limited control over cellular ratios. Here, we describe a protocol for generating vascular organoids (VOs) via orthogonal forward programming of hPSCs. By utilizing doxycycline-inducible activation of the transcription factors ETV2 and NKX3.1, hPSCs are rapidly directed toward endothelial and mural cell lineages, respectively. This strategy enables the assembly of VOs with precisely tunable cellular compositions within six days. When combined with fluorescent reporter lines (PECAM1-mRuby3 and ACTA2-EGFP), vascular networks can be visualized in real time without the need for tissue clearing or immunostaining. We detail procedures for stable cell line engineering, 3D organoid assembly, in vitro angiogenesis assays for drug screening, and in vivo transplantation under the mouse kidney capsule to form perfusable human vasculature. This platform provides a flexible, standardized, and scalable tool for investigating vascular biology, modeling inherited vasculopathies, and enhancing the vascularization of co-transplant tissues.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42419126 is a review article
NKX3.1 is a prostate-specific tumor suppressor that is frequently downregulated during the early stages of prostate cancer. Although NKX3.1 knockout (KO) mice develop spontaneous epithelial abnormalities, these lesions rarely progress beyond early neoplastic changes without additional oncogenic stimulus. Therefore, we investigated whether exogenous testosterone (TS) exacerbates early-stage, pre-neoplastic lesions in the prostate of NKX3.1 KO mice. Alterations in prostate weights of male reproductive organs (testis, seminal vesicles, and prostate lobes), histopathological lesion scores, apoptotic proteins, and angiogenic proteins were analyzed in C57BL/6 NKX3.1em1Hlee/Korl KO (NKX3.1 KO) mice injected with TS for six weeks.The weight of testis, seminal vesicles and ventral prostate was commonly changed in TS-treated mice of wild type (WT) and NKX3.1 KO group, while those of the dorsolateral and anterior prostate were only increased in TS-treated NKX3.1 KO group compared to those of WT. Histopathological lesion severity was greater in TS-treated NKX3.1 KO mice, with the highest lesion scores observed in the high-dose TS (HiTS)-treated KO group, and a similar pattern was observed for p53 staining. The expression levels of apoptotic and angiogenic proteins were significantly increased in TS-treated NKX3.1 KO mice compared to the same group of WT mice.These findings suggest that the exogenous TS exacerbates early-stage, pre-neoplastic lesions in the prostate of NKX3.1 KO mice, consistent with a gene-hormone synergistic interaction. The mechanistic basis of this synergy remains to be defined.© 2026. The Author(s).
To enhance risk stratification in metastatic castrate-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC), we developed clinical and integrated clinico-genomic prognostic nomograms combining clinical prognostic factors with copy number alteration-based risk scores (RSs) in circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) and metastatic tissue to predict 1-, 2-, and 3-year overall survival (OS) probabilities.A clinical prognostic nomogram was developed from publicly accessed Yale University Open Data Access (YODA) data-sciences project (N = 1088 patients). A second publicly available independent dataset (N = 82) with an 11-gene prognostic RS developed concurrently obtained ctDNA and matched metastatic tissue specimens (gains: AR, MYC, COL22A1, PIK3CA, PIK3CB, NOTCH1; losses: TMPRSS2, NCOR1, ZBTB18, TP53, NKX3-1) was used to develop an integrated clinico-genomic survival nomogram. Independent predictors for survival were identified in each dataset using univariate and multivariate Cox proportional hazard. Multivariate regression coefficients with statistical significance (P < .05) were used to develop prognostic nomograms to estimate 1-, 2- and 3-year OS probabilities. Nomogram performances were assessed using time-dependent area under curves (t-AUCs). All analyses were conducted in RStudio (v4.1.2).The YODA dataset t-AUCs for the prognostic nomogram for estimating OS at 1, 2, and 3 years were 0.74, 0.70, and 0.74. In the independent second dataset, the integrated clinico-genomic prognostic nomogram was observed to have higher t-AUCs for predicting 3-year mCRPC survival at 0.807 compared with 0.714 using clinical factors alone.An integrated clinico-genomic nomogram with ctDNA RSs achieved the highest t-AUC for 3-year survival in mCRPC and may enable precision in identification of poor-prognosis subgroups based on somatic alterations.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
This study aimed to develop a robust predictive model and nomogram for breast cancer (BC) based on genes associated with diverse cell death methods. A prognostic model was constructed using the LASSO Cox method, incorporating twelve genes (CREB3L1, SFRP1, SHARPIN, AIFM1, IL‑18, CD24, EDA2R, CRIP1, XBP1, BCL2A1, NKX3‑1, and NME5). BC patients were classified into high‑risk and low‑risk subgroups, with the low‑risk subgroup showing superior survival, and this prognostic value was validated in an independent external cohort. A nomogram was also developed and confirmed as a reliable independent predictor of outcome. Enrichment analyses suggested a link between patient risk and immune response. The low‑risk subgroup exhibited a higher tumor microenvironment (TME) score. Patients in the high‑risk group showed improved responses to lapatinib, BI‑2536, OSI‑027, and SB505124, whereas those in the low‑risk subgroup had better sensitivity to axitinib, epirubicin, fulvestrant, and olaparib. Additionally, CD24 overexpression in BC cell lines promoted proliferation and migration, and inhibited apoptosis. These findings contribute to personalized treatment strategies and help elucidate the tumor microenvironment characteristics of BC patients.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Electrochemical aptamer-based biosensors (E-ABs) have emerged as powerful tools for biomolecular detection, yet limited insight into binding-induced conformational dynamics has constrained their development to more efficient E-ABs. Here, we present a strategy that integrates in-silico docking with electrochemical nanoarchitecture engineering to identify optimal aptamer-target binding sites, thereby guiding the rational placement of redox labels to enhance analytical performance. Three E-AB electrodes were fabricated, each with a methylene blue placed at distinct sites within the aptamer. Electrochemical analysis revealed that the spatial positioning of redox labels critically governs the biosensing performance by modulating both binding affinity and signal transduction efficiency. Circular dichroism (CD) spectroscopy was further employed to investigate conformational changes in the engineered aptamers upon interaction with CD63, an exosomal biomarker. Notably, the configuration with a redox label positioned at the distal end achieved the lowest detection limit, the highest binding affinity, and robust performance in proof-of-concept biological models.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Financial time series forecasting remains a challenging problem due to the clear non-stationarity of financial data, complex temporal dependencies, and frequent local fluctuations. Although Transformer-based models have achieved good performance in recent years, most methods still use fixed-length patch partitioning, which cannot adapt well to changing volatility patterns in financial sequences. To address this issue, this paper proposes a new forecasting framework named TRiP-Net. The model introduces TRiP, a risk-aware adaptive patching strategy that adjusts patch granularity based on local risk characteristics within the sequence. This allows the model to better capture local dynamic changes in financial time series. In addition, a DCN module is used to improve state-aware feature normalisation under different market regimes. Experimental results show that, under multiple forecasting horizons, TRiP-Net outperforms several mainstream baselines, including PatchTST, Pathformer, and iTransformer, in terms of MAE, RMSE, and MAPE. Ablation studies further confirm the effectiveness of the proposed modules and the adaptive patching strategy. Overall, the results show that TRiP-Net improves the accuracy of multi-step financial time series forecasting.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Targeted kinase inhibitors induce marked tumor regressions but are limited by the emergence of drug-tolerant residual disease and resistance. Although tumor-intrinsic and adaptive immune mechanisms have been extensively studied, a better understanding of the contribution of innate immunity to targeted therapy durability is needed to devise optimal treatment strategies. Here, we showed that natural killer (NK) cells constrain targeted therapy resistance and identified a regression-associated macrophage program that promotes NK cell recruitment. In immunocompetent melanoma models that recapitulate patient treatment trajectories, tumor regression was characterized by robust NK infiltration, which transitioned to an NK-excluded residual state preceding resistance. A regression-associated macrophage subset (F4/80hiCCL5⁺MHCII⁺CD63⁺) contributed to NK cell recruitment via CCR2/5 signaling. Genetic depletion of macrophages using LysM-cre;iDTR mice impaired NK cell infiltration. Pharmacologic inhibition of PTPN22, a negative regulator of immune activation, reprogrammed the residual tumor microenvironment, restored NK cell recruitment, and delayed resistance onset. Analysis of patient tumor datasets from melanoma and lung cancer revealed concordant NK dynamics during therapy, linking this innate immune program to clinical outcomes. These findings identify innate immune remodeling as a key contributor to targeted therapy durability and identify NK cell recruitment, promoted in part by regression-associated macrophages, as a therapeutically actionable node for extending durability of response across oncogene-driven cancers.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42552209
Chronic wound healing disorders remain a significant clinical challenge, largely due to the limited effectiveness of conventional therapeutic strategies. Emerging evidence suggests that engineered exosomes represent a promising cell-free therapeutic approach. This study aimed to elucidate the mechanisms by which fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21)-modified adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cell (ADSC) exosomes promote wound healing.ADSCs overexpressing FGF21 were established using genetic engineering, and FGF21-enriched exosomes (Exo@FGF21) were isolated and characterized using transmission electron microscopy and nanoparticle tracking analysis. The biological effects of Exo@FGF21 on human skin fibroblasts (HSFs) were assessed through proliferation, migration, invasion, and apoptosis assays. Glycolytic activity, glucose consumption, lactate production, ATP levels, and hydroxyproline content were evaluated to investigate metabolic changes. Mechanistic studies involved pharmacological inhibition of AMPK and knockdown of PFKFB3. Therapeutic efficacy was further examined in a mouse full-thickness skin defect model.Exo@FGF21 exhibited typical exosomal morphology with diameters ranging from 80 to 150 nm and expressed canonical exosomal markers CD9 and CD63. In vitro, Exo@FGF21 significantly enhanced fibroblast proliferation, migration, and invasion, promoted collagen synthesis-related gene expression (COL1A1, COL3A1, FN1), and reduced apoptosis. Mechanistically, Exo@FGF21 activated AMPK, suppressed mTOR signaling, and upregulated PFKFB3 expression. Both AMPK inhibition and PFKFB3 knockdown markedly attenuated these pro-repair effects. Metabolic analyses demonstrated enhanced glycolysis, increased glucose utilization, elevated lactate production, and augmented ATP and hydroxyproline levels, indicating glycolytic metabolic reprogramming. In vivo, Exo@FGF21 accelerated wound closure, promoted epidermal regeneration, enhanced collagen deposition, and activated the AMPK/mTOR/PFKFB3 pathway.FGF21-modified ADSC-derived exosomes promote wound healing by inducing fibroblast glycolytic metabolic reprogramming via the AMPK/mTOR/PFKFB3 signaling axis. These findings provide novel mechanistic insights and support the therapeutic potential of engineered exosome-based strategies for chronic wound repair.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Increasing evidence suggests extracellular vesicles (EVs) are key components of liquid biopsies to aid cancer diagnosis and treatment selection, if their collection can be translated to clinical settings. Size exclusion chromatography (SEC) is relatively simple, fast, and cost-effective, but its potential for "real-world" EVs collection for cancer diagnoses is unknown. Here we aimed to critically evaluate SEC using clinically-relevant plasma volumes and across a range of common cancer types that are frequently diagnosed too late. EVs were collected, using qEV70 or qEV35 SEC columns, from duplicate aliquots of n = 43 plasma samples procured at diagnosis with lung, ovarian, or gastric cancers and characterised on multiple parameters, seeking correlations with patients clinicopathological information. To investigate potential diagnostic relevance, EVs were collected in the same way from n = 10 plasma samples from healthy donors. We found that SEC has many attributes indicating that it is translatable to real-world clinical utility. With both SEC types, relatively large quantities of EVs were successfully collected from small plasma volumes for all three cancer types. No significant differences existed between qEV70 and qEV35 particle sizes, structure, and EVs markers. EVs in qEV35 isolates versus qEV70 isolates had reduced purity and/or increased protein corona, but both isolates revealed clinical correlations. Importantly, depending on the cancer type(s), results suggested that the EVs isolates at the time of cancer diagnosis may inform on lymph node-positivity and advanced stage, and may be prognostic for shorter time to disease progression. Furthermore, analysis of plasma CD63+ EVs and CD81+ EVs appears to have diagnostic relevance, due to their typically significantly greater quantities in cancer types compared to healthy controls. Altogether, SEC shows promise as a potential approach for clinical EVs collection as liquid biopsies and correlations between plasma EVs quantities with a range of clinicopathological characteristics suggests this would be worthwhile.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Tendon injuries often cause disordered healing and functional impairment because current treatments fail to restore native tissue structure and function. This study evaluated the in vivo efficacy of polydimethylsiloxane scaffolds with different pit or column patterns to identify optimal surface parameters for functional Achilles tendon regeneration. Six micropatterned scaffolds were fabricated via photolithography and implanted in a rat Achilles tendon injury model. Healing outcomes were assessed at two and five weeks via histological analysis, gene expression of tendon-related markers and TGF-β1, and biomechanical testing. Pit scaffolds outperformed column scaffolds, promoting collagen deposition, reducing adhesion, and upregulating Tnmd and DCN. The pit structure with 21 μm diameter and 26 μm spacing designated P-21-26 emerged as the optimal topography. By week five, this group restored 93.7% of healthy tendon tensile strength, a recovery strongly correlated with higher collagen density and lower adhesion scores. Column scaffolds exhibited inferior matrix organization and mechanical recovery. These results demonstrate that a 21 μm pit topography optimally balances inflammation and fibrosis, leading to superior functional tendon regeneration. These findings establish a critical design parameter for scaffolds and show that optimized surface topography alone enhances functional tendon repair, offering a translatable strategy for next-generation scaffolds.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
To address the limited tissue specificity of extracellular vesicles (EVs) derived from blood and other body fluids, this study isolated small EVs (sEVs) from the tissue interstitial fluid (TIF) of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and adjacent tissues. The expression profiles of non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) were analyzed to identify more specific diagnostic biomarkers.An optimized protocol for TIF-sEV extraction was established, which combined enzymatic digestion (Collagenase D and DNase I) with differential and ultracentrifugation. The isolated sEVs were characterized using nanoparticle tracking analysis (NTA), transmission electron microscopy (TEM), and western blotting (WB). The expression of 33 candidate ncRNAs (11 lncRNAs from TCGA-LIHC and 22 miRNAs from TCGA-LIHC and GSE302990) in TIF-sEVs was analyzed by qRT-PCR and integrated with clinical parameters via LASSO regression.The optimal extraction conditions were determined to be digestion with Collagenase D (2 mg/mL) and DNase I (40 U/mL) for 30 minutes. The obtained EVs exhibited typical morphology, a particle size below 200 nm, and expressed canonical EV marker proteins (ALIX, CD63) as well as the hepatocyte-specific membrane protein ASGPR. qRT-PCR analysis revealed specific enrichment of six lncRNAs (e.g., AL031985, TMCC1-AS1) and eleven miRNAs (e.g., miR-1224-5p, miR-483-5p) in TIF-sEVs. LASSO regression applied to all 33 candidate ncRNAs and clinical parameters identified a combined diagnostic signature comprising ALB, PLT, DBIL, lncRNA GAS5, and miR-194-5p, which achieved an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.960.This study establishes an efficient and stable system for the isolation and characterization of TIF-sEVs from liver tissue. Furthermore, it identifies multiple non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) that are enriched in TIF-sEVs, thereby providing potential novel diagnostic biomarkers for the differential diagnosis and prognosis evaluation of HCC.Copyright: © 2026 Liu et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Background MRI radiomics has recently gained attention for evaluating intratumoral heterogeneity in thoracic malignancies. Thymic epithelial tumors (TETs) include a wide spectrum from the low-risk thymoma group (LRG) to thymic carcinoma (TC), but imaging-based differentiation remains challenging. This study aimed to assess the utility of MRI texture analysis for differentiating TET subtypes according to the 2021 WHO classification. Methods Forty-seven patients with histologically proven TETs (19 LRG, 18 high-risk thymoma group (HRG), and 10 TC) underwent preoperative MRI including T1-, T2-, diffusion-weighted (DWI), and apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) sequences. Texture analysis was performed using LIFEx software (version 7.6.0; French Alternative Energies and Atomic Energy Commission, Paris, France). A total of 41 texture features were extracted from manually delineated three-dimensional tumor volumes. Statistical comparisons were performed using Kruskal-Wallis and Mann-Whitney U tests with Benjamini-Hochberg false discovery rate correction. Diagnostic performance was evaluated using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis. Results Among the 47 lesions, 24, 28, and 37 texture parameters differed significantly between LRG-HRG, LRG-TC, and HRG-TC, respectively. The highest area under the curve (AUC) values were 0.785 for DWI coefficient of variation in differentiating LRG from HRG, 0.933 for T1WI morphological radius in differentiating LRG from TC, and 0.867 for ADC intensity variance in differentiating HRG from TC. Conclusions MRI-based texture analysis provides a promising noninvasive approach for differentiating thymic epithelial tumor subtypes according to the WHO classification. Sequence-specific texture parameters demonstrated moderate to high diagnostic performance, particularly for differentiating low-risk thymoma from thymic carcinoma. These findings suggest that MRI radiomics may contribute to preoperative risk stratification and treatment planning in patients with thymic epithelial tumors.Copyright © 2026, Li et al.
Planting altitude is a critical environmental factor shaping the flavor quality of Coffea arabica. However, how altitude influences flavor through microbial dynamics and chemical transformations during wet processing remains poorly understood. This study systematically investigates microbial diversity during wet processing and the corresponding changes in non-volatile and volatile compounds in coffee beans from four elevations: 1000 m (A1), 1200 m (A2), 1400 m (A3), and 1600 m (A4). The results showed that fermentation significantly altered the dominant bacterial genera from Sphingomonas and Pleomorphomonas (before fermentation) to Weissella and Lactobacillus (after fermentation), while Cladosporium and Fusarium remained the dominant fungal genera. Notably, non-volatile compounds in de-pulping coffee beans and volatile compounds of roasted coffee beans showed significant differences. Among them, 57 (1000 m), 218 (1200 m), 133 (1400 m), and 173 (1600 m) differentially changed non-volatile compounds (DCn-VCs) belonging to lipids and lipid-like molecules, organic acids and derivatives, organoheterocyclic compounds, organic oxygen, phenylpropanoids and polyketides, benzenoids, and other classes were identified. The cupping score of roasted coffee beans increased with increasing planting altitude, and A4 exhibited a long-lasting aftertaste, mellow and full body with high sweetness, nutty, and flowery with 42 (A4 vs. A1), 27 (A4 vs. A2), and 26 (A4 vs. A3) volatile compounds showing significant variation across altitudes. Therefore, planting altitude significantly influences coffee flavor by reshaping microbial diversity and chemical composition during wet processing. High-altitude cultivation promotes desirable sensory characteristics, highlighting its potential for producing specialty-grade coffee.© 2026 The Author(s). Food Science & Nutrition published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Angiogenesis plays a significant role in the progression of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). The RNA-binding protein IGF2BP3 is associated with fibrosis and angiogenesis, but its role in IPF angiogenesis remain unclear. Additionally, Tianlongjie (TL) has been confirmed to inhibit IPF progression, but the role of IGF2BP3 in this process also needs to be elucidated. A bleomycin (BLM)-induced pulmonary fibrosis rat model was established via intratracheal instillation of BLM, and an angiogenesis cell model was constructed by treating HPMVECs with VEGF165. HE staining was used to detect lung tissue injury. Masson staining, HYP content measurement, Western blot, and Immunohistochemistry assessed to evaluate fibrosis and angiogenesis progression. EdU staining was employed to detect cell proliferation. RIP-qPCR and dual-luciferase reporter assays were performed to examine the interaction between IGF2BP3 and HIF-1α. IGF2BP3 was abnormally highly expressed in pulmonary fibrosis. IGF2BP3 knockdown reduced the expression of HYP, COL-I, COL-III, α-SMA, CD31, CD34, and VEGFA in pulmonary fibrosis rat lung tissues, increased E-cadherin expression, and inhibited pulmonary fibrosis progression and microvascular formation in rats. In vitro, IGF2BP3 knockdown suppressed cell proliferation, migration and vascular endothelial cell angiogenesis. Mechanistically, IGF2BP3 may promote HIF-1α stability through m6A modification, and HIF-1α overexpression attenuated the inhibitory effect of IGF2BP3 knockdown on angiogenesis. Furthermore, TL treatment was associated with reduced fibrosis and lower IGF2BP3/HIF-1α expression. In conclusion, IGF2BP3 can promote pulmonary fibrosis-related angiogenesis by stabilizing HIF-1α expression, and TL inhibits IGF2BP3 and HIF-1α expression, angiogenesis and fibrosis progression in pulmonary fibrosis rats.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Distal necrosis remains a common postoperative complication of perforator flaps, largely due to insufficient perfusion and inadequate angiogenesis in ischemic flap tissue. Transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 (TRPV1) has been implicated in vascular regulation through calcium-dependent signaling pathways; however, whether pharmacological blockade of TRPV1 affects angiogenesis in perforator flaps remains unclear. In this study, capsazepine was used to pharmacologically block TRPV1 in a rat perforator flap model. The results showed that capsazepine treatment significantly reduced flap survival compared with vehicle treatment (64.5 ± 1.2 % vs. 79.0 ± 1.7 %) and impaired angiogenesis, as indicated by reduced vascular density and decreased expression of VEGF-A, eNOS, and MMP2. Capsazepine also reduced the phosphorylation of CaMKII, CaMKKβ, and AMPK, together with decreased Beclin1 expression, a reduced LC3-II/I ratio, and induced pro-apoptotic changes, as evidenced by increased Bax and cleaved caspase-3 expression and decreased Bcl-2 expression. Notably, pharmacological enhancement of autophagy with rapamycin reduced Bax expression and increased MMP2 expression. Collectively, these findings indicate that capsazepine-mediated TRPV1 blockade impairs perforator flap survival and angiogenesis, at least in part, through reduced CaMKII/CaMKKβ/AMPK activation and attenuation of autophagy. The rapamycin rescue findings position autophagy as an important functional intermediary between TRPV1-associated signaling and the regulation of apoptosis and angiogenesis in perforator flaps.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Lung cancer remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide, highlighting the urgent need for effective and selective therapeutic agents. In this study, novel phenylalanine and tryptophan-derived hydrazone hybrids (9a-h and 10a-h) against lung cancer were designed, synthesized and characterized via analytic and spectral methods (FT-IR, 1H NMR, 13C NMR APT, and LC-MS/HR-MS). Cytotoxic activities of synthesized compounds were evaluated against human non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) (A549 and PC9) cells and human healthy lung epithelial BEAS-2B cells. Among the hydrazone hybrids, phenylalanine derivative compound 9d exhibited the most potent and selective cytotoxic effect against NSCLC cells, with IC50 values of 15.60 μM for A549 and 22.49 μM for PC9, and high selectivity indices (SI = 76.92 and 53.36, respectively). Mechanistic studies revealed that these compounds induce apoptosis in A549 cells, with a concomitant decrease in VEGF-A levels and downregulation of VEGFR-1 and 2 expression; this indicates a direct modulation of the tumor-autonomous VEGF signaling axis. Additionally, the compounds significantly activated caspase-3/7, 8, and 9 enzymes, confirming the triggering of both intrinsic and extrinsic apoptotic pathways. Furthermore, intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation and mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) depolarization were distinctly induced by compounds 10d and 10g, suggesting an additional mitochondrial stress-mediated mechanism of action within this series. Molecular docking simulations were performed to evaluate binding affinity within the VEGFR-2 active site. In vitro and in silico results identified compound 9d as a promising lead structure for further optimization of selective lung cancer therapeutics. Future studies were targeted at further optimizing drug-like properties and exploring downstream signaling kinetics.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a valuable non-human primate model organism with a long history of use in biomedical research, including investigating diseases with an immune component. However, prior to this effort, there has been a lack of sufficiently validated tools to quantify inflammatory markers in the common marmoset using a multiplex approach. We provide a cross-species reactivity validation of a human-specific multiplex analysis strategy that allows for the assessment of 20 distinct inflammatory analytes in a small volume of plasma isolated from common marmoset blood. We used this novel approach to perform an assessment of the impact of sex as a biological variable on a subset of these inflammatory analytes. We found that endogenous plasma levels of the following analytes are not significantly different between female and male marmosets: CRP, ICAM-1, VCAM-1, IL-13, IL-8, MIP-1β, IFN-g, IL-4, VEGF-A, FLT-1, and bFGF. These findings demonstrate the utility of our validated method for quantifying marmoset inflammatory markers.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Diffuse Gastric Cancer (DGC) is an aggressive subtype with a poor prognosis and a lack of specific biomarkers, representing a critical unmet need in oncology. This study aimed to elucidate the key molecular drivers of DGC by integrating RNA-seq data with a multi-faceted bioinformatics approach.We analyzed RNA-seq data from young-onset DGC and normal tissues (GSE113255, GSE122401). Machine learning (ML) feature selection (ReliefF algorithm) was used to prioritize genes, followed by protein-protein interaction network analysis to identify hub genes. Their roles were further investigated through Gene Ontology, KEGG pathway analysis, tumor microenvironment immune infiltration, miRNA-regulatory network analysis, transcription factor prediction, and computational drug repurposing analyses.Our ML‑driven approach identified seven hub genes central to DGC pathogenesis including CCL5, CXCR4, MMP9, FOXP3, IL18, TNFSF11, and TNFSF13B. Among these, three prioritized core hub genes (CXCR4, MMP9, and TNFSF13B) were selected based on statistically significant overexpression and complementary functional roles. Specifically, CXCR4 showed a Fold Change of 3.12 (Log2FC = 1.64, FDR = 0.01), MMP9 exhibited the highest magnitude of upregulation (Fold Change = 16.58, Log2FC = 4.05), and TNFSF13B demonstrated the most statistically significant differential expression (Fold Change = 2.32, Log2FC = 1.21, FDR < 0.000001). High CXCR4 expression was identified as a potential prognostic indicator associated with poorer overall survival in the TCGA‑STAD cohort (HR = 1.5, p = 0.0072). We delineated a core regulatory circuitry where NF‑κB (NFKB1/RELA) masterfully regulates the hub gene network. Drug repurposing analysis nominated several FDA‑approved agents, including the VEGF‑A inhibitor Bevacizumab, which indirectly suppresses CXCR4 and MMP9.This pilot study establishes a robust integrative framework that synergizes ML with network biology. It nominates CXCR4 and TNFSF13B as candidate therapeutic targets and highlights the potential of ML‑based feature selection for discovering biologically relevant, context‑dependent prognostic indicators in DGC. However, we emphasize that these findings are exploratory and hypothesis‑generating, requiring independent validation through experimental studies and larger cohorts before any clinical translation.Copyright: © 2026 Azni et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
In acute myeloid leukemia (AML), therapeutic resistance is intimately linked to vascular microenvironment remodeling; however, the initiating molecular determinants remain elusive. Here, we identified exosomal pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2) as a pivotal mediator of this pathogenic process. PKM2 was abundantly present in AML-derived exosomes and transferred to human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs), eliciting metabolic reprogramming characterized by enhanced glycolysis and angiogenic activation. Mechanistically, PKM2 knockdown in AML cells substantially attenuated exosome-induced endothelial migration and tube formation, whereas ectopic PKM2 overexpression in endothelial cells potentiated pro-angiogenic phenotypes. In NOD/SCID mouse xenograft, AML-derived exosomes promoted microvascular remodeling and accelerated disease progression, effects that were abrogated by the angiogenesis inhibitor endostatin. This vascular remodeling coincided with diminished cytarabine (Ara-C) sensitivity, indicative of a chemoprotective microenvironment. Consistently, in a systemic AML model, pharmacological PKM2 inhibition disrupted the vascular niche, suppressed angiogenesis, and restored Ara-C chemosensitivity. Clinically, PKM2 expression correlated positively with VEGFA and HIF-1α levels, and exosomes derived from AML patients with elevated PKM2 conferred enhanced tube-forming capacity upon endothelial cells. Collectively, these findings establish exosomal PKM2 as a critical regulator of the chemoprotective vascular niche in AML and underscore its translational potential as a therapeutic target.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Doxorubicin (DOX) is a potent chemotherapeutic agent whose antitumor benefits are limited by a well-recognized, dose-dependent cardiotoxicity. While previous studies have implicated inflammatory pathways in DOX-induced cardiomyopathy (DIC), the role of CCR2 in this process remains incompletely defined. This study aims to investigate whether CCR2 deficiency confers cardioprotection against DIC and to uncover the molecular mechanisms involved.CCR2 knockout (CCR2⁻/⁻ ) mouse was subjected to both acute and chronic DIC models. Bone marrow transplantation was used to establish the functional contribution of CCR2-deficient macrophages. Autophagic flux was evaluated using complementary approaches, including a tandem mRFP-GFP-LC3 reporter, western blotting, immunofluorescence, and transmission electron microscopy. The mediator linking CCR2-deficient macrophages to cardiomyocytes was identified by proteomics and validated using recombinant IL12B protein and a neutralizing antibody.CCR2 deficiency substantially improved cardiac function, as evidenced by preserved left ventricular ejection fraction, fractional shortening and reduced serum cardiac injury markers. Mechanistic studies revealed that CCR2⁻/⁻ hearts exhibited enhanced autophagic flux, with increased LC3B lipidation, autophagosome formation, and clearance of damaged cellular components. Proteomic profiling of cardiac macrophages identified interleukin-12B (IL12B) significantly upregulated in CCR2⁻/⁻ mouse. Recombinant IL12B protein administration activated cardiomyocyte autophagy through PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway inhibition and reproduced the cardioprotective effects in WT mouse. Conversely, IL12B neutralization completely abolished CCR2 deficiency-mediated protection.Our findings identify a novel CCR2-IL12B-autophagy axis that critically regulates DOX-induced cardiotoxicity. CCR2 deficiency promotes IL12B secretion from cardiac macrophages, which directly activates protective autophagy in cardiomyocytes. These results establish CCR2 inhibition and IL12B supplementation as two promising therapeutic strategies to prevent chemotherapy-induced cardiomyopathy, providing a transformative approach to cardio-oncology.© The author(s).
Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) is highly prevalent and aggressive in China, with conventional therapies causing significant morbidity. Photodynamic therapy (PDT) kills tumor cells via photosensitizer-mediated reactive oxygen species (ROS), representing an effective tumor treatment. However, its efficacy is severely impaired by the hypoxic tumor microenvironment (TME). In this study, we synthesized multifunctional carbon dots (SN-CDs) from the traditional Chinese herb Solanum nigrum via hydrothermal method. SN-CDs (particle size: 1.9 ± 0.3 nm) are rich in hydroxyl and amino groups, with an oxygen generation rate of approximately 2.61 ppm/min in vitro. They can efficiently decompose endogenous hydrogen peroxide in the tumor microenvironment, thereby alleviating tumor hypoxia. Under 635 nm laser irradiation, they generate ROS (1O2, ·OH). In vitro, SN-CDs induce apoptosis in ESCC cells (EC9706/EC109) and regulate HIF-1 pathway (downregulate VEGFA, upregulate CDKN1B). In vivo, SN-CD-mediated PDT reduces ESCC xenograft volume by 60% with no obvious systemic toxicity observed in vivo. Thus, SN-CDs are a natural, multifunctional nanoplatform that alleviates tumor hypoxia to enhance PDT efficacy, promising for minimally invasive ESCC treatment.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Circadian clocks underlie daily rhythms in physiology by coordinating temporal patterns of gene expression and protein function throughout the body. At the core of this system in mammals is CLOCK/BMAL1, a ubiquitously expressed heterodimeric transcription factor complex that orchestrates tissue-specific circadian gene expression. The basis for this specificity remains unclear, but tissue-specific interactions at chromatin could provide one. Here we used chromatin immunoprecipitation coupled to mass spectrometry to map CLOCK/BMAL1-associated protein complexes on chromatin in mouse liver, kidney and lung. We detected 1,510 associated proteins, most of which were tissue-specific and not explained by protein abundance. Among these, we identified the homeodomain transcription factors PROX1, HNF1B and HOXA5 as tissue-enriched interactors that bind BMAL1, co-occupy most BMAL1 genomic sites and establish organ-restricted circadian transcription. Our findings demonstrate that tissue-specific transcription factors confer cellular identity on the core clock, thereby contributing to organ-specific patterns of rhythmic gene expression.© 2026. The Author(s).
To determine whether circulating soluble Flt-1 (sFlt-1) and soluble Tie-2 (sTie-2) are associated with intraplaque neovascularization (IPN) in human carotid atherosclerotic plaques.Forty-four patients with ≥50% carotid stenosis underwent conventional carotid ultrasound and superb microvascular imaging (SMI); 29 had plasma collected and 11 provided carotid endarterectomy specimens for histology. IPN was quantified as neovessel counts in 2-minute SMI cine loops and as microvessel counts in excised plaques. Plasma VEGF-A/B/C/D, Ang-2, sFlt-1, and sTie-2 were measured by immunoassays. Public single-cell RNA-seq data from human carotid plaques were interrogated to map FLT1, TEK, VEGFA, ANGPT1, and ANGPT2 expression to specific plaque cell populations.IPN was detected in 33/44 (75%) patients, with 0-16 neovessels on SMI (median 4). Plasma sFlt-1 correlated with SMI neovessel counts (r=0.42, p=0.030), with a similar trend for sTie-2 (r=0.37, p=0.057), whereas VEGF-A/B/C/D and Ang-2 showed no significant relationships. In the surgical subgroup, histological neovessel counts correlated with sFlt-1 (r=0.65, p=0.030) and SMI neovessel count (r= 0.68, p =0.02) but not sTie-2. sFlt-1 and sTie-2 correlated with BMI (and sTie-2 also with age), yet log-sFlt-1 remained independently associated with SMI-derived neovessel counts after adjustment for age and BMI (B = 13.24, 95% CI 0.17-26.30, p=0.047; R²=0.18), while sTie-2 was not. No significant associations were observed between IPN or sFlt-1/sTie-2 and lipid profile, CRP, leukocyte counts, or other conventional risk factors. Single-cell transcriptomics showed FLT1 and ANGPT2 broadly expressed across endothelial, smooth-muscle, and myeloid clusters, with TEK largely confined to endothelial cells and ANGPT1 to smooth-muscle cells, supporting local activation of VEGF-FLT1 and Ang-TEK/Tie-2 signaling within plaques.In this pilot study, higher plasma sFlt-1, and, to a lesser degree sTie-2, correlated with carotid IPN on SMI and histology, independent of age and BMI. These findings suggest that soluble VEGF- and Ang/Tie-2-receptor pathways may serve as circulating, context-sensitive markers of intraplaque angiogenesis and plaque vulnerability, meriting evaluation in larger longitudinal cohorts.Copyright © 2026 Zamani, Skagen, Lindberg, Bjerkeli, Dahl, Michelsen, Ueland, Aukrust, Halvorsen and Skjelland.
Posttransplant diabetes mellitus is a chronic metabolic complication that often develops in kidney transplant recipients and is an inflammatory disease that directly affects a patient's immune system. Angiopoietin and angiopoietin -like proteins are intrinsic mediators of immune cells. We assessed the relationship between circulating angiopoietin proteins ANGPT ¹ and ANGPT ²and angiopoietin-like proteins ANGPTL ³, ANGPTL ⁴, ANGPTL ⁶, ANGPTL ⁷, and ANGPTL ⁸ in kidney transplant recipients who develop posttransplant diabetes mellitus (experimental group) versus recipients who do not develop diabetes after transplant (control group).We included 154 age-matched and sex-matched participants (38 with posttransplant diabetes mellitus) and 155 control participants. We collected 3 mL of venous blood from each patient. Plasma levels of angiopoietin proteins ANGPT ¹ and ANGPT ² and angiopoietin-like proteins ANGPTL ³, ANGPTL ⁴, ANGPTL ⁶, ANGPTL ⁷, and ANGPTL ⁸ were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. We determined the correlation between plasma levels of ANGPT ¹and ANGPT ² and ANGPTL ³, ANGPTL ⁴, ANGPTL ⁶, ANGPTL ⁷, and ANGPTL ⁸in our posttransplant diabetes mellitus group and the control group.There were highly significant differences between kidney transplant recipients with diabetes versus control participants with regard to plasma levels of ANGPT ¹, ANGPTL ⁶, ANGPTL ⁷, and ANGPTL ⁸ (P < . ⁰⁰¹, P = . ⁰⁰¹, P < . ⁰⁰¹, and P =.⁰⁴, respectively). No significant statistical association was found for ANGPT2, ANGPTL3, and ANGPTL4 in our posttransplant diabetes mellitus cohorts.Plasma levels of ANGPT¹, ANGPTL⁶, ANGPTL⁷, and ANGPTL ⁸ may correlate with disease severity and chronicity in transplant patients who develop posttransplant diabetes mellitus. Thereby these may serve as potential biomarkers of the disease severity with possible early intervention in the management strategy especially with modifiable risk factors such as immunosuppression regimen, antidiabetic medications, and follow-up of the complications of posttransplant diabetes mellitus.
After spinal cord injury (SCI), the blood-spinal cord barrier (BSCB) is disrupted, and endothelial cells, a critical component of BSCB, undergo proliferation and remodeling to maintain barrier integrity. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying BSCB remodeling remain unclear after SCI. Here, we reveal that Yes-associated protein (YAP), a principal downstream effector of the Hippo signaling pathway, promotes endothelial proliferation and BSCB repair in mice after SCI. First, we found that YAP expression was significantly upregulated and activated in endothelial cells after SCI. Endothelial YAP knockout (YAPTEK-cre/ERT2-CKO mice) impaired endothelial proliferation, endothelial-astrocyte end-feet reorganization, and tight junction (TJ) integrity, thereby aggravating BSCB disruption and impairing BSCB remodeling and motor functional recovery after SCI. Mechanistically, endothelial YAP-dependent BSCB repair was associated with angiopoietin-1 (ANGPT1) expression and PI3K/AKT pathway activation after SCI. Exogenous ANGPT1 treatment mitigated YAP deficiency-induced inhibition of endothelial proliferation and endothelial barrier disruption via PI3K/AKT signaling in vitro. Finally, activation of YAP signaling partially mitigated SCI-induced BSCB disruption, ultimately improving motor function recovery. Together, these results identify endothelial YAP signaling as a critical regulator of BSCB remodeling associated with ANGPT1/PI3K/AKT pathway and provide a potential therapeutic target for SCI.© 2025 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Secondary lymphedema, characterized by localized tissue swelling caused by lymphatic damage or dysfunction, remains a major clinical challenge that compromises quality of life. Current physical therapies provide only temporary relief, underscoring the need for effective regenerative strategies. Here, we report the fabrication of a micropatterned, small-diameter fibrous artificial lymphatic vessel incorporating hyaluronic acid (HA) via electrospinning to enhance lymphatic fluid transport. The engineered scaffold exhibits optimized mechanical properties and elicits favorable cellular responses through HA-mediated biochemical cues. Lymphatic endothelial cells (LEC) cultured on the scaffold show increased expression of lymphangiogenesis-related markers, including Prox1 and LYVE-1, accompanied by AKT activation and increased VEGF-C/VEGFR3-associated marker expression. The topographical features of the scaffold were also associated with altered YAP localization and increased lymphatic endothelial marker expression. In vivo implantation of the scaffold in a rat lymphedema model reduced ankle swelling and lymphatic retention across the surgically disrupted region toward an anatomically preserved drainage basin. Collectively, these findings suggest that HA-integrated fibrous lymphatic scaffolds represent a promising strategy for lymphedema treatment by synergistically engaging biochemical and biomechanical pathways associated with lymphatic repair and functional fluid transport.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Lacteal motion can be visualized in vivo, but quantitative analysis remains difficult because intravital intestinal imaging is affected by motion, focal instability, and baseline fluorescence variability.We developed an intravital imaging workflow for quantitative analysis of lacteal contractility in Prox1-EGFP rats. Lacteals were segmented by region-of-interest analysis, and fluorescence signals were extracted frame by frame. Signals were normalized as percent deviation from mean clip intensity. Contractility was assessed from normalized traces, with acetylcholine used as a positive control. Matched 30 and 10 s analysis windows were compared.Mean-normalized signals provided a more comparable readout than raw intensity across clips acquired under variable intravital conditions. The workflow detected the expected increase in lacteal contractile behavior after acetylcholine in paired experiments and resolved progressive augmentation in a serial time-course experiment. Compared with 10 s analysis, 30 s recordings yielded a more coherent and interpretable amplitude-based readout.This study establishes a practical intravital workflow for quantifying lacteal contractility in vivo and defines key analytical considerations for live intestinal imaging, including normalization strategy, window selection, and image-quality control.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2 (VEGFR2) is a key target for regulating the endothelial cell lineage and angiogenesis. It is also expressed by lymphatic endothelial cells (LECs) while its participation in lymphangiogenesis remains inadequately characterized. We demonstrate in this study that VEGFR2 is highly expressed in dermal initial lymphatic vessels and valves. The induced deletion of pan-endothelial Vegfr2 at the neonatal stage produced a potent suppression of dermal lymphatic growth, characterized by a thinner lymphatic diameter, a decreased number of LECs and lymphatic valves. Mechanistically, VEGFR2 insufficiency led to a dramatic decrease in lymphatic VEGFR3, a key regulator mediating signals for lymphatic growth and remodeling. RNA sequencing analysis revealed that GO terms enriched for downregulated genes included biological processes related to EC development while pathways related to hematopoiesis and immune responses were upregulated in the skin of Vegfr2 mutants compared with littermate controls. This was further confirmed by RNA-seq analysis of dermal tissues 48 h after endothelial Vegfr2 deletion. Consistently, targeting Vegfr2 in PROX1+ cells produced an inhibitory effect on dermal lymphatic growth and recapitulated a similar altered transcriptomic signature. The alteration of lymphatic gene expression was further validated by siRNA-mediated Vegfr2 knockdown in primary LECs, showing a transcriptional trend toward a hematopoietic fate. Findings from this study imply that VEGFR2 is required for the maintenance of endothelial identity, and its insufficiency triggers a transcriptional reprogramming that diminishes VEGFR3-mediated lymphangiogenesis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) exhibits marked molecular heterogeneity and diverse clinical outcomes, partly influenced by HPV status and the tumor immune microenvironment. Although tumor doubling time (TDT) reflects tumor growth kinetics and has prognostic relevance, its molecular basis in HNSCC remains unclear.Single-cell RNA-seq data from GSE164690 were integrated with bulk transcriptomic datasets from TCGA-HNSC, GSE41613, GSE65858, and ICGC. We identified 21 tumor doubling time-related genes (TDTRGs), evaluated their cell type-specific enrichment using UCell, and defined molecular subtypes by consensus clustering. Immune infiltration was assessed by ssGSEA and CIBERSORT. A prognostic model was developed using 117 machine-learning algorithm combinations in the Mime1 package and further evaluated by single-cell visualization, cell cycle scoring, pseudotime analysis, drug sensitivity prediction, and molecular docking.A single-cell atlas comprising 17 cell populations was constructed. TDTRGs were mainly enriched in cycling T cells and epithelial cells and showed HPV-related expression differences. Two molecular subtypes were identified; C2 was associated with poorer progression-free interval (P = 0.001) and enrichment of MET and integrin signaling. A seven-gene signature-CCBE1, MAD2L1, ECT2, BIRC5, ITGA6, ESM1, and NUF2-showed robust prognostic performance across independent cohorts and outperformed 73 published signatures. Single-cell and pseudotime analyses confirmed cell type-specific and dynamic regulation. Venetoclax was predicted as a potential therapeutic candidate, with docking energies below -9 kcal·mol⁻¹.This study defines TDTRG-related heterogeneity in HNSCC and establishes a robust seven-gene prognostic signature, providing potential biomarkers and therapeutic insights for personalized management.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide, largely due to limitations in early diagnosis and effective treatment. To address these challenges, we developed a multifunctional probiotic nanoplatform, EcNA@Cur-Lip-FA, that integrates real-time diagnosis, targeted therapy, and immune modulation for enhanced CRC treatment. Specifically, this system leverages genetically engineered Escherichia coli Nissle 1917 (EcN) encoding acoustic reporter genes (ARGs) to produce ultrasound (US)-responsive gas vesicles (GVs), enabling real-time, noninvasive tumor imaging. Simultaneously, folic acid (FA)-modified curcumin-loaded liposomes (Cur-Lip-FA) are co-delivered with EcN, enhancing tumor-specific accumulation and therapeutic precision. After being taken up by tumor cells, curcumin is released locally upon exposure to US irradiation, generating reactive oxygen species (ROS), inducing immunogenic cell death (ICD), and activating the cGAS-STING pathway to promote dendritic cells (DCs) maturation and robust CD4+/CD8+ T-cell responses. Additionally, EcNA@Cur-Lip-FA downregulates angiogenesis-related factors (VEGF, VEGFR1, and ANGPT1), thereby inhibiting tumor neovascularization. In vitro and in vivo studies demonstrated that EcNA@Cur-Lip-FA enables precise tumor localization, dynamic imaging, and effective suppression of both primary CRC and metastatic liver lesions with favorable biocompatibility. This multifunctional platform offers a promising strategy for integrating diagnosis and treatment, paving the way for next-generation CRC theranostics.© 2026 The Author(s). MedComm published by Sichuan International Medical Exchange & Promotion Association (SCIMEA) and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Bisphenol A (BPA), a ubiquitous plasticizer, has been implicated in lipid metabolic imbalance, yet its contribution to nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) remains incompletely understood. Here, we combined NHANES data analysis, network toxicology, microarray profiling, molecular docking and dynamics simulations, and LO2 hepatocyte experiments to investigate the association between BPA exposure and NAFLD and its underlying mechanisms. Epidemiologically, urinary BPA levels were positively associated with NAFLD prevalence. In vitro, low-dose BPA induced hepatocellular triglyceride and cholesterol accumulation and impaired cell function. Mechanistic investigations highlighted inflammatory, steroidogenic, and lipid metabolic pathways. Network pharmacology and gene expression profiling pinpointed MMP9, PTGS2, MMP2, NOS3, and PLAU as key BPA-responsive genes, and experimental validation confirmed upregulation of MMP9, PTGS2, and PLAU transcripts and proteins alongside increased MMP2 protein. These findings integrate population-level, computational, and hepatocyte evidence, suggesting that matrix remodeling, inflammation, and lipid metabolism may underlie the link between BPA exposure and NAFLD.
Adoptive cell transfer of tumor infiltrating CD4+ T cells or T cells genetically modified to express antitumor CD4+ T cell receptors (TCRs) has shown clinical efficacy in patients with advanced solid tumors. We previously defined unique transcriptomic states of antitumor, neoantigen-specific CD8+ and CD4+ tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) in human cancer. However, optimal cell surface protein markers that identify and would enable viable cell isolation and selective enrichment of antitumor CD4+ T cells have yet to be identified. Here, we define transcriptomic and corresponding cell surface protein profiles of antitumor CD4+ TIL within metastatic colorectal tumors using high dimensional single cell transcriptomic and proteomic analysis. Comprehensive analysis of 45 antitumor CD4+ TCR clonotypes demonstrated uniquely high cell surface protein expression of ADGRG1, CD86, and CD57. In all samples containing tumor neoantigen-reactive CD4+ TIL clonotypes, ADGRG1- and CD86-based cell surface enrichment of known reactive TCR clonotypes were 11-fold and 9-fold higher than bulk CD4+ TIL, respectively. ADGRG1- and CD86-based cell surface enrichment identified >60 validated antitumor CD4+ TCR-clonotypes including tumor organoid-reactive TCRs, as well as neoantigen-specific TCRs targeting private tumor mutations and cancer driver mutations. While both ADGRG1 and CD86 enriched CD4+ TIL displayed an exhausted neoantigen-specific gene expression signature, CD86 also enriched for cytotoxic CD4+ TIL phenotypes. CD4+ TIL isolated based on ADGRG1 expression and expanded in vitro also demonstrated neoantigen reactivity in two samples. Thus, ADGRG1 and CD86 appear to be effective protein markers for isolating human tumor-specific CD4+ TCR clonotypes and studying antitumor CD4+ TIL.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) is a heterogeneous condition where overlapping cardiometabolic risk factors challenge accurate prognostic prediction.We aimed to define the molecular heterogeneity underlying MASLD clinical presentation, resolving disease patterns and identifying sub-phenotypes that account for prognostic differences in the general population.We applied latent class analysis (LCA) to 48 806 UK Biobank participants with MRI-based proton density fat fraction (MRI-PDFF) data to define phenotypic subtypes over a >15-year follow-up. Large-scale proteomic profiling characterised the molecular basis of the identified prognostic patterns. This led to the derivation of a four-protein score (PS4), which was robustly validated for all-cause mortality prediction in an expanded cohort with/ without MRI-PDFF data (n=115 971). We used mediation analysis to assess the potential contribution of PS4 proteins to the observed class-outcome associations.The LCA identified clinically distinct MASLD subtypes, revealing pronounced sexual dimorphism in disease severity and identifying high-risk prognostic subgroups. The derived PS4 score significantly outperformed established non-invasive scores in predicting all-cause mortality across the expanded cohort. The PS4 components, linked to hepatic lipid/one-carbon metabolism (FABP1, FTCD) and immune/vascular integrity (ADGRG1, GAST) pathways, were found to account for a significant fraction (10-20%) of the estimated effect of the patient's phenotypic class on mortality outcome.MASLD-driven proteomic shifts reflect biological pathways that connect hepatic metabolic dysfunction with long-term survival. By resolving the MASLD cardiometabolic spectrum, we identified high-risk endotypes that are not captured by traditional liver-centric scores. The PS4 represents a biologically grounded framework for deciphering the systemic consequences of MASLD.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Gastric Cancer (GC) is still one of the leading causes of cancer-related deaths worldwide. Curcumin, a natural polyphenol found in turmeric, has been reported to have anti-tumor properties. However, the mechanism by which curcumin acts against GC remains unclear. In this study, we combined approaches such as network pharmacology, GEO microarray analysis, molecular docking and molecular dynamics, bioinformatics, and in vitro experiments to explore the various ways in which curcumin may act on GC.Curcumin targets were predicted using TCMSP, SwissTargetPrediction, TargetNet, and PharmMapper, and standardized using UniProt. GC differential genes were derived from GEO GSE54129. Overlapping targets were analyzed using STRING protein-protein interaction networks, with hubs identified using cytoHubba and MCODE. GO and KEGG enrichment analyses were performed to determine significantly enriched biological functions and pathways. Docking and 100-ns Molecular Dynamics (MD) were used to assess binding stability. GEPIA and TCGA validated target expression and immune-correlated gene expression. in vitro, SGC-7901 cells underwent CCK-8, colony formation, wound-healing, and Western blot analysis to evaluate CYP1A2, CYP3A4, and CYP2D6 expression.We identified 439 curcumin targets, 1,619 GC differential genes, and 83 overlaps. Hubs were MMP9, SERPINE1, PLAU, and MMP3. GO terms highlighted responses to chemicals and oxygen-containing compounds, extracellular vesicle processes, and related processes. KEGG pathways included cytochrome P450 metabolism, arachidonic acid metabolism, apoptosis, etc. Docking (Vina) predicted favorable binding poses, with binding energies (kcal/mol) of -7.3 for SERPINE1, -6.8 for MMP3, -6.7 for MMP9, and -5.9 for PLAU. MD supported structural plausibility across all four hubs. GEPIA and TCGA showed higher mRNA levels of these targets in GC and significant associations with neutrophils, macrophages, and dendritic cells. Curcumin reduced SGC-7901 viability in a concentration-dependent manner (IC50 24.4 μM), suppressed colony formation and migration, and increased CYP1A2, CYP3A4, and CYP2D6 expression (P < 0.01).Data indicate curcumin targets ECM remodeling and proteolysis via MMP9, MMP3, SERPINE1, and PLAU, and modulates metabolic and inflammatory signaling, including cytochrome P450. Concordance across in silico, bioinformatics, and cell assays supports a multi-target mechanism. Limitations include reliance on a single dataset and cell line, lack of in vivo validation, and curcumin's low bioavailability.Curcumin engages MMP9, SERPINE1, PLAU, and MMP3 and regulates cytochrome P450 and inflammation-related pathways, thereby inhibiting GC cell proliferation, clonogenicity, and migration. These findings provide a mechanistic basis for further in vivo and translational studies of curcumin-based strategies in GC.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Arterial tortuosity syndrome is a rare connective tissue disorder characterised by a distinct combination of cardiovascular manifestations, which include the tortuosity and elongation of large- and medium-sized arteries. In addition, the condition is associated with various connective tissue abnormalities, including facial dysmorphism, skin laxity, hernias, premature ageing, chest wall and spine deformities, and hypermobile joints. Arterial tortuosity syndrome is attributed to mutations in the SLC2A10 gene, which plays a critical role in extracellular matrix synthesis, an essential component that maintains the structural integrity of vascular and connective tissues.We present a case of a 21-year-old lady at 40 + 5 weeks of gestation, whose fetus on antenatal sonography showed an extremely tortuous and dilated aorta, and dilated main pulmonary artery and its main branches. The fetal neurosonogram showed prominence and septations in both the lateral cerebral ventricles and a diagnosis of arterial tortuosity syndrome with intraventricular septae secondary to hemorrhage was suspected. At birth, the female neonate exhibited abnormal facial features, lax skin, structural talipes, and hypermobility of joints. The antenatal diagnosis of arterial tortuosity syndrome was confirmed by typical postnatal physical characteristics and computed tomography angiography, which showed the extent of vascular involvement. However, genetic analysis could not be done to further support the diagnosis.A comprehensive understanding of the typical imaging features, physical characteristics, and genetic factors associated with arterial tortuosity syndrome can enhance understanding of the broader implications of this pathology across vascular and other connective tissue biology. Such an understanding may lead to improvements in the diagnosis and management of the condition.© The Author(s) 2026.
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a prevalent and chronic joint disease characterized by progressive cartilage degeneration and chronic inflammation. Isoliquiritigenin (ISL), a bioactive flavonoid derived from licorice, has demonstrated significant anti-inflammatory potential in various diseases. However, its specific molecular targets and systemic mechanisms in the treatment of OA remain to be fully elucidated. This study aimed to investigate the potential targets and molecular mechanisms of ISL in OA treatment using an integrated pharmacological and experimental approach.Overlapping targets between ISL and OA were identified using multiple public databases. A PPI network was constructed to identify hub genes, followed by GO and KEGG enrichment analyses to predict key signaling pathways. A ceRNA regulatory network was also established. Furthermore, molecular docking was employed to assess the binding stability between ISL and core targets, and the findings were validated through histopathological evaluation (Mankin score) and RT-qPCR analysis in a rabbit ACLT-induced OA model.A total of 79 shared targets were identified, from which 11 core targets were selected for further investigation. Enrichment analysis revealed that the therapeutic effects of ISL are primarily associated with the MAPK, PI3K-Akt, and mTOR signaling pathways, which are essential for maintaining chondrocyte homeostasis. Molecular docking indicated that ISL exhibits strong binding affinities (all binding energies < -5.0 kcal/mol) for the core targets. In vivo experiments confirmed typical cartilage degradation in the OA group, accompanied by significantly elevated Mankin scores. RT-qPCR results verified the significant differential expression of six core targets (IGF1R, PLAU, EGFR, PTGS2, PPARG, and GSK3B) in the OA cartilage, validating their involvement in OA pathogenesis.In this study, we preliminarily determined the potential therapeutic effects of ISL on OA through its modulation of multiple targets and complex signaling pathways. The integration of network pharmacology and in vivo validation suggests that ISL may exert its anti-OA effects by targeting key inflammatory and metabolic mediators identified in our PPI and ceRNA networks.ISL is predicted to have substantial potential for clinical application in OA treatment. These findings provide a novel theoretical foundation and specific candidate targets for future research into targeted therapeutic strategies for OA.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) arises within a hypoxic and immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME), where tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) constitute a major immune population. The impact of hypoxia on TAM functional heterogeneity and their contribution to HCC growth and metastasis remain incompletely understood.We integrated multiple single-cell RNA sequencing datasets and developed a machine learning framework to map cellular hypoxia at single-cell resolution. Hypoxic TAMs (H-TAM) were characterized using transcriptomic and functional assays, including pseudotime trajectory analysis, regulatory network inference, in vitro co-culture, and orthotopic mouse models. Drug sensitivity correlations and in vivo validation were performed to evaluate therapeutic strategies.H-TAM represented the most hypoxic immune population in HCC and exhibited enhanced interactions with malignant hepatocytes. Transcriptomic profiling revealed HIF-1α-dependent hypoxia signaling and upregulation of plasminogen activator, urokinase (uPA, encoded by PLAU). H-TAM-derived uPA engaged its receptor uPAR on HCC cells, promoting epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), migration, invasion, and lung metastasis. In line with this, genetic silencing of the corresponding mouse gene Plau in hypoxia-exposed bone marrow-derived macrophages (H-BMDM) markedly attenuated these pro-tumorigenic effects. Integrative drug sensitivity analysis identified dasatinib as a potential therapeutic agent in HCC with high uPAR expression, and in vivo administration selectively suppressed H-BMDM mediated tumor progression and metastasis while prolonging mouse survival.Hypoxia drives TAM heterogeneity in HCC via an H‑TAM‑intrinsic HIF‑1α-uPA axis that engages uPAR on HCC cells to promote metastasis. uPAR is a potential prognostic biomarker, and dasatinib is a promising therapy to block this axis and improve outcomes.© 2026. The Author(s).
The initiation and progression of cancer are driven by the dynamic interplay between somatic mutations and the tumor microenvironment. Identifying core cell populations driving malignant transformation and understanding the intercellular interactions within the tumor microenvironment are, therefore, crucial for early diagnosis and effective treatment. Here, we construct a spatiotemporal atlas of oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) progression by integrating multi-omics approaches. Our analysis reveals that the critical driver gene PLAU activates the TGF-β pathway via ITGB1, thereby promoting the conversion of fibroblasts into the COL11A1⁺ fibroblast (COL11A1⁺ Fib). These specialized fibroblasts remodel the extracellular matrix (ECM), collectively establishing an immunosuppressive niche composed of malignant epithelial cells, COL11A1+ Fib, and regulatory T cells (Tregs). Importantly, targeting COL11A1+ Fib alleviates this immunosuppressive niche and curbs OSCC progression. Our findings underscore the potential of COL11A1+ Fib as a predictive biomarker, especially in combination with immunotherapy. Collectively, this work demonstrates that the PLAU-ITGB1-TGF-β axis drives the formation of an Epi-COL11A1+ Fib-Treg immunosuppressive niche that fuels OSCC malignancy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Progression from differentiated thyroid cancer to anaplastic thyroid cancer (ATC) involves profound epithelial plasticity and remodeling of the tumor microenvironment (TME), but how BRAFV600E and RAS driver mutations shape these processes remains unclear. Here, we integrated single-nucleus RNA-seq, spatial transcriptomics, and bulk RNA-seq across BRAFV600E- and RAS-driven thyroid tumors to delineate mutation-specific progression trajectories. BRAFV600E-driven tumors exhibited a gradual dedifferentiation trajectory with immune pathway activation, whereas RAS-driven tumors displayed abrupt transitions characterized by aneuploidy, epithelial-mesenchymal transition, hypoxia, and extracellular matrix remodeling. Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) emerged as key regulators, with mutation-specific ligand-receptor interactions: integrin-based signaling predominated in BRAFV600E-mutant ATCs, while PLAU-PLAUR, TNFSF10-TNFRSF10B, and AREG-EGFR were additionally enriched in RAS-driven ATCs. These CAF-epithelial circuits were spatially validated and associated with poor prognosis. Together, our findings reveal mutation-dependent epithelial and TME dynamics associated with thyroid cancer dedifferentiation and highlight the potential importance of molecular-tailored approaches in the management of advanced thyroid cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
Classic Hodgkin lymphoma (CHL) is a highly curable disease. However, a subset of patients develops relapsed/refractory disease, underscoring the need for predictors of treatment response. Although immune-checkpoint inhibitors have improved outcomes, many patients still experience suboptimal responses. A deeper understanding of the CHL transcriptomic landscape may improve patient stratification and guide treatment approaches. Targeted mRNA-NGS was performed on formalin-fixed paraffine-embedded CHL-tissue using the HTG EdgeSeq Precision Immune-Oncology Panel (1,392 genes) in treatment-naive and post-chemotherapy relapsed treated with nivolumab-based protocols. Differential gene expression and pathway enrichment analyses were conducted to characterize tumor-intrinsic, and microenvironmental features associated with disease biology and treatment response. Across all CHL samples (n = 25) we observed overexpression of immune-checkpoint and immunoregulatory genes (CD274, CTLA-4, IL6, IL13), and markers of macrophage-rich/matrix-remodeling microenvironment (CD163, MMP2, TIMP1), alongside loss of B-cell identity and tumor suppression programs. Pathways analysis revealed activation of IL6/JAK/STAT3, TNF-α/NF-κB, KRAS-UP, and Inflammatory response, with reduced proliferative and metabolic activity. Immunotherapy non-responders, both in the overall (n = 5; 20%), and the treatment-naïve CHL (n = 2; 12%) displayed a proliferative, cytokine-activated, and immunologically cold phenotype. This includes shared overexpression of FADD, NFKB1, and TGFB1 and downregulation of SMAD7, together with activation of E2F, G2M, MYC, and PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathways and negative enrichment of TNF-α/NF-κB, IL6/JAK/STAT3, and Inflammatory response. Post-chemotherapy relapsed (n = 8) exhibited adaptative immunoregulatory and stress response signatures (IL15, TNFSF18, MAPK8, FUT4), along with reduced immune activation and loss of tumor-suppressor signaling. This study highlights the biological complexity and transcriptional diversity underlying CHL and its tumor microenvironment. Immunotherapy non-responders exhibited an "oncogene-driven" transcriptional profile independent of previous treatment status, whereas responders showed an "inflammatory immune-scape" phenotype, offering insight into mechanisms of resistance. Despite the limited sample size, these findings provide a foundation for larger precision-focused studies aimed at improving outcomes in CHL.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Early-stage mycosis fungoides (MF) manifests as patch or plaque lesions, and cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) may promote tumorigenesis and Th2-skewed microenvironment. This study aimed to investigate genomic and transcriptomic changes from patch to plaque MF and assess their prognostic significance in early-stage disease. Whole-genome sequencing, CosMx Spatial Molecular Imaging, a single-cell-resolution spatial transcriptome, and immunohistochemical staining for CAF markers FAP, TIMP-1, and CXCL12 were conducted. Whole-genome sequencing showed similar single-nucleotide, copy-number, and structural variants in patch and plaque lesions. Spatial transcriptomics identified fibroblasts as a key signaling cells in both lesion types, with plaque lesions exhibiting expanded fibroblast-driven communication networks, including greater interactions with B cells and enhanced T-cell chemotaxis. CXCL12 was markedly upregulated in fibroblasts from plaque-MF and correlated with collagen gene expression and CCL19, a key ligand mediating fibroblast-T-cell signaling. T cells in plaque lesions also displayed higher CXCL12 and CCL19 expression and lower expression of cytotoxicity-related genes. In the immunohistochemical cohort, high FAP and TIMP-1 expression correlated with poorer progression-free survival, whereas CXCL12 expression was associated only with progression to tumor-stage disease. In conclusion, this study identifies differences between patch and plaque MF and underscores the clinical and prognostic significance of CAFs in patients with early-stage disease.Copyright © 2026 Society for Investigative Dermatology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
BackgroundVascular risk factors contribute substantially to late-life cognitive impairment and interact with neurodegenerative processes underlying dementia. Blood-brain barrier (BBB) dysfunction has emerged as a key mechanism linking vascular pathology to cognitive decline; however, circulating biomarkers reflecting BBB remodeling remain incompletely characterized.ObjectiveTo explore the association between circulating markers of BBB remodeling, amyloid-β (Aβ)1-40 and longitudinal cognitive decline in individuals with vascular risk factors.MethodsIn this prospective cohort study, 101 individuals (mean age 71 ± 5 years; 59.4% women) with long-standing hypertension and/or type 2 diabetes mellitus underwent serial assessment of serum BBB-related biomarkers (matrix metalloproteinases [MMPs], TIMP-1 and soluble tumor necrosis factor-like weak inducer of apoptosis [sTWEAK]), Aβ1-40, brain MRI, and standardized cognitive testing (Mini-Mental State Examination and Addenbrooke's Cognitive Examination Version V) over a mean follow-up of 24 ± 4.9 months. Cognitive decline was defined as a clinically meaningful reduction in global cognitive scores.ResultsTwelve participants (11.9%) developed cognitive decline. Higher serum MMP-7 levels at 12 months were independently associated with subsequent cognitive decline after adjustment for age, sex and baseline cognition (adjusted OR 2.13; 95% CI 1.09-4.13; p = 0.026). Baseline levels of Aβ1-40, MMP-9, and sTWEAK were associated with lower cognitive performance.ConclusionsElevated circulating MMP-7 at 12 months was associated with cognitive decline suggesting a potential role for BBB remodeling in vascular contributions to cognitive impairment. These findings should be considered exploratory and require validation in larger studies.
Myelofibrosis (MF) splenomegaly reflects not only extramedullary hematopoiesis (EMH) but a compartmental organization of the splenic microenvironment into spatially distinct niches. Using Spatial whole transcriptome profiling on FFPE spleen tissue from three MF patients, we interrogated three anatomically defined compartments: Intravascular (IV), Perivascular (PV) and Red Pulp (RP). Differential expression was estimated through pairwise compartment contrasts with Benjamini-Hochberg false discovery rate correction (FDR < 0.05, |log2FC|≥1), and compartment "core signatures" were defined by directional concordance across the two contrasts relevant to each compartment. IV regions of interest (ROIs) showed an endothelial/adhesion and vascular stress program (e.g., PECAM1, VCAM1; antioxidant enzymes). PV ROIs were characterized by fibro-remodeling and immune-structured signals (COL1A1/COL3A1, LOXL1, MMP2/TIMP1; HLA‑DRA/CD74) including CXCL12, consistent with a PV niche coupling extracellular matrix remodeling to hematopoietic retention cues. RP ROIs captured an EMH-associated erythroid/heme program (ALAS2, FECH, BLVRB) with stress and inflammatory alarmins (S100A8/S100A9). Together, these findings support a compartmental "division of labor" in MF spleen, vascular interface activation, PV remodeling/chemokine niches, and RP EMH/redox stress, providing a spatial framework to interpret splenomegaly as structured niche dependencies and to prioritize candidate microenvironmental dependencies for follow‑up validation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Among myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPN), prefibrotic myelofibrosis (preMF) was defined as a distinct entity from essential thrombocythemia (ET) and primary overt myelofibrosis (PMF) since the 2016 revision of the World Health Organization (WHO) classification, while precise characterization may be difficult in some instances. In that context, several non-invasive parameters have shown potential to differentiate ET from PMF. The aim of the study was to prospectively evaluate non-invasive parameters in 128 patients (44 ET, 53 preMF, and 21 PMF). The mutational landscape became increasingly complex across diagnostic from ET to preMF and PMF. We observed significant differential expression of inflammatory mediators (IL-1RA, IL-1β, IL-6, S100A8/S100A9, CCL4), immune activation markers (CD25 and CXCL10), matrix regulator (YLK-40 and TIMP1), and lower levels of EGF and CXCL4 between ET and PMF with similar results between preMF and PMF. The two-step Lasso regression strategy to classify patients with internal bootstrap validation reliably identified PMF (AUC: 0.909 [0.804-0.994]) and reasonable discrimination between ET and preMF (AUC: 0.762 [0.656-0.847]). The non-invasive parameters studied enable effective discrimination of PMF and help to distinguish preMF from ET, although the low discriminatory power of these parameters supports the hypothesis of a pathophysiological continuum between these conditions.© 2026. The Author(s).
Corydalis Herba is a traditional Tibetan medicine clinically applied to treat vasculitis and related conditions. Although many kinds of compounds have been isolated and identified from Corydalis Herba, there is no systematic mass spectrometry(MS) research on it, and its effective substances and mechanisms for treating thromboangiitis obliterans remain unknown. Therefore, one of the origins of Corydalis Herba, i.e., the dried herb of Corydalis hendersonii(CH), was used in this study, and ultra high performance liquid chromatography-quadrupole time-of-flight tandem mass spectrometry(UHPLC-Q-TOF-MS/MS), network pharmacology, and molecular docking methods were used to investigate its chemical constituents as well as its effective substances and mechanisms for treating thromboangiitis obliterans. A total of 107 chemical constituents of CH were identified, and 17 of them were unequivocally identified by comparison with reference compounds. The 107 compounds comprise 74 alkaloids, 10 flavonoids, 14 organic acids, 7 amides, and 2 amines, and 89 of them were new constituents of Corydalis Herba, including 8 potential new compounds. In addition, the electrospray ionization(ESI) MS fragmentation patterns of different types of benzyltetrahydroisoquinoline alkaloids were proposed. Finally, 16 core targets(SERPINE1, ICAM1, MMP9, VCAM1, SELE, F3, MPO, etc.), 85 active ingredients, 26 effective substances, and 10 key effective substances(protopine, naringenin, berberine, tetrahydropalmatine, kaempferol, higenamine, apigenin, luteolin, quercetin, and tetrahydrocoptisine) of CH in the treatment of thromboangiitis obliterans were determined by network pharmacology, molecular docking analyses, and literature retrieval. The results lay a solid foundation for further research on the quality control, pharmacological effects, mechanisms, and in vivo process of Corydalis Herba.
This paper constructed a reactive oxygen species(ROS)-responsive hydrogel loaded with sodium tanshinone Ⅱ_A sulfonate(STS) and salvianolic acid B(SAB) and evaluated its therapeutic effect on hypertrophic scars. A hydrogel was prepared by using hyaluronic acid(HA) and polyvinyl alcohol(PVA) bridged by phenylboronic acid(PBA) as the matrix with two drugs physically encapsulated inside. Its structure, rheological properties, and drug release behavior were characterized. Scar models of rabbit ears were established and divided into a blank control group, a model group, an asiaticoside cream group, a regular drug-loaded hydrogel group, and a drug-loaded ROS-responsive hydrogel group. After 21 days of intervention, the net increased thickness of the car was detected. The tissue morphology was detected by using hematoxylin-eosin and Masson staining. The expressions of α-smooth muscle actin(α-SMA) and collagen-Ⅰ(COL-Ⅰ) were detected by immunohistochemistry, and the levels of transforming growth factor-β1(TGF-β1), tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-1(TIMP-1), matrix metallopeptidase-9(MMP-9), ROS, and 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine(8-OHdG) were assessed. The results show that, compared to those in the model group, the net increased thickness of scar, TGF-β1, TIMP-1, ROS, 8-OHdG, α-SMA, and COL-Ⅰ in each treatment group were significantly reduced(P&lt;0.05), while MMP-9 levels were increased(P&lt;0.05), and the improvement effect in the drug-loaded ROS-responsive hydrogel group was better than that in the regular drug-loaded hydrogel group(P&lt;0.05). These findings indicate that the hydrogel can achieve smart drug release and significantly inhibit scar formation, providing a new strategy for treatment.
Advanced soft tissue sarcoma (STS) is a group of rare and heterogeneous malignancies, requiring better therapeutic strategies. Pazopanib, a widely used second-line treatment, has been suggested to exert immunomodulatory effects, which may be relevant for enhancing response. Specifically, pazopanib reduces immunosuppressive cells like myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSC) and regulatory T cells (Treg) while enhancing the function of dendritic cells, T cells, and NK effectors. Based on this knowledge, we hypothesized that proteins involved in immunomodulation could serve as predictive biomarkers of response to pazopanib.To explore immune-related biomarkers of prognosis and pazopanib response in advanced soft tissue sarcoma using paired pre- and post-treatment tumour samples and complementary preclinical models.Exploratory translational study integrating differential gene expression profiling of clinical specimens with in silico prognostic evaluation and in vitro functional assays in soft tissue sarcoma cell lines treated with pazopanib.HTG transcriptome-direct profiling was performed on paired FFPE tumour samples from pazopanib-treated patients, followed by bioinformatic identification of differentially expressed genes and survival correlations, and subsequent validation of candidate biomarkers, at RNA and protein levels in sarcoma cell lines exposed to pazopanib.Using HTG transcriptomics, we identified 38 differentially expressed genes in post-pazopanib STS samples. Among them, SERPINE1 was the most consistent dynamic biomarker, showing a 4.19-fold increase (FDR = 0.016) and correlating with poor survival (progression-free survival (PFS), p = 0.033; disease-free survival (DFS), p = 0.004). In vitro, SERPINE1 upregulation was observed in STS cell lines CP0024 (24h, 1.47-fold; 48h, 1.71-fold), ICP059 (48h, 1.15-fold), and 93T449 (72h, 2.29-fold), with earlier expression in more sensitive cell lines. Protein validation confirmed these results after 48h of treatment.Our results support SERPINE1 as a biomarker for poor prognosis and suggest its role as an exploratory, hypothesis-generating candidate marker for pazopanib response, warranting further validation in larger cohorts.© The Author(s) 2026.
Allan-Herndon-Dudley syndrome (AHDS) is an X-linked neurodevelopmental disorder caused by loss of the thyroid hormone (TH) transporter MCT8, resulting in central TH deprivation and disrupted cortical maturation, cognition, and motor control. MCT8/OATP1C1 double-knockout (dKO) mice faithfully model the human disease, recapitulating its postnatal hypomyelination, neuromotor impairment, and cortical defects. Yet, cell-type-specific pathologies underlying AHDS remain insufficiently defined.To uncover cellular perturbations by TH deprivation, we performed single-nucleus RNA sequencing on cortex and attached cerebral nuclei from P21 WT and dKO mice. Differential gene expression, trajectory, pseudotime and gene-set enrichment analyses, and NeuronChat-based cell-cell communication modeling were integrated with LC-MS/MS-based TH quantification, immunofluorescence, and RNAscope.In 48 clusters identified across cortical and striatal regions, we found increased numbers of GABAergic striatal D1 and D2 neurons in dKO mice, whereas mature oligodendrocytes were reduced. Trajectory analysis uncovered a bifurcation within the oligodendrocyte lineage, separating WT and dKO maturation paths and producing a dKO branch with gene profiles reminiscent of a stress-responsive, demyelination-prone state, despite largely preserved expression of core myelination genes. Trajectory analyses revealed shifted pseudotime states and distinct gene expression profiles in glutamatergic intratelencephalic and corticothalamic lineages of dKO mice. Differential gene expression patterns showed limited correspondence to Slc16a2 or Slco1c1 transcript levels but aligned strongly with published TH deprivation datasets, validating our findings and indicating that cellular perturbations are largely established by P21. Cell-cell communication analysis revealed a network imbalance favoring GABAergic over glutamatergic signaling, accompanied by altered neurexin-neuroligin interactions. In parallel, we identified a coordinated dysregulation of cilia-related genes, together with changes in cilia length and number.Our findings provide the first single-cell-level cortical map of AHDS brain pathology, revealing cilia defects, excitation-inhibition imbalance, differing pseudotime trajectories in glutamatergic neuronal populations and altered oligodendrocyte maturation, with actionable candidate genes such as Lama2, Litaf, and Dcc, as promising targets for future mechanistic and therapeutic exploration in AHDS. Slc16a2 and Slco1c1 transcript abundance alone did not predict cellular vulnerability, highlighting TH availability rather than transporter expression as key determinant of cell-type sensitivity and core mechanism for cortical network homeostasis.
PurposeTo elucidate the dynamic molecular evolution and immune heterogeneity in diabetic retinopathy (DR) and identify diagnostic biomarkers.MethodsMulti-omics integrative analysis was performed on peripheral blood transcriptomic data from diabetic patients with and without DR. Techniques included differential expression analysis, immune infiltration profiling, unsupervised clustering, and LASSO regression for biomarker selection. Findings were validated in an independent high-glucose-treated endothelial cell model.ResultsDR progression exhibits staged molecular evolution from diabetes (immune suppression) to early DR (cell cycle inhibition, immune burst) and advanced DR (metabolic stress, persistent immune dysregulation). Six co-downregulated immune modules indicated systemic immune suppression. Patients were classified into three immune subtypes: vascular-inflammatory, metabolic disorder, and oxidative stress-tissue remodeling. A diagnostic model based on IK, PLBD2, FLNA, H6PD, and ZMAT2 achieved an AUC of 0.876 for distinguishing DR from diabetes alone.ConclusionThis study delineates the dynamic molecular landscape and immune heterogeneity of DR, providing a potential multi-gene diagnostic signature and a framework for patient stratification, which may facilitate early detection and personalized management.
FLNA encodes filamin A, a cytoskeletal actin-binding protein with critical roles in neuronal migration, mechano-transduction, and organ morphogenesis. Pathogenic FLNA variants are classically associated with periventricular nodular heterotopia (PVNH), epilepsy, and multisystem manifestations, although interpretation of missense variants remains challenging because of marked variable expressivity and limited functional evidence.We describe a mother-daughter pair carrying the heterozygous FLNA missense variant c.5776 C > T (p.Pro1926Ser). Clinical, electroencephalographic, neuroradiological, cardiological, and genetic data were retrospectively reviewed. Variant interpretation was performed according to ACMG/AMP criteria and supported by in silico and structural analyses.The proband, a 13-year-old girl, presented with migraine with aura, epilepsy responsive to levetiracetam, normal brain MRI, and QT interval prolongation, with no pathogenic variants identified in established long-QT genes. Her mother, who carried the same variant, had focal epilepsy, migraine with aura, and subtle PVNH on brain MRI. Additional family history included a maternally related male cousin reportedly hemizygous for the same variant and affected by a severe congenital multisystem phenotype including valvular and extracerebral abnormalities, overall consistent with FLNA-related disease. The p.Pro1926Ser substitution was absent from population databases, involved a highly conserved residue within immunoglobulin-like repeat 17 of the rod-2 domain, and was predicted to be deleterious by most computational tools.These findings support a likely contributory role of FLNA p.Pro1926Ser in a variably expressive neurodevelopmental and multisystem disorder in which epilepsy represents the predominant neurological phenotype.© 2026. Fondazione Società Italiana di Neurologia.
BackgroundLAMA2-related muscular dystrophy (LAMA2-MD) and SELENON-related myopathy (SELENON-RM) are rare congenital muscle diseases characterized by slowly progressive proximal muscle weakness, spinal rigidity and respiratory insufficiency. The LAST STRONG study is a natural history study to identify suitable outcome measures and reach trial readiness for LAMA2-MD and SELENON-RM.MethodsPatients had four visits over 1.5-years. Assessments included neurological examination, hand-held dynamometry (HHD), functional assessments (Motor Function Measurements(MFM)-20/32, graded and timed function tests), accelerometry, and questionnaires on quality of life, activities and participation, pain, and fatigue.ResultsA total of 27 LAMA2-MD (21 years, range 3-50; 9 males) and 11 SELENON-RM (20 years, range 3-42; 8 males) patients were included. In LAMA2-MD, mean HHD scores for neck extensors, biceps brachii, quadriceps, foot plantar flexors and handgrip strength increased (all p < 0.02). In SELENON-RM, biceps brachii and foot plantar flexors increased (p < 0.01). In LAMA2-MD, functional assessments did not change significantly. In SELENON-RM, MFM-20/32 total score and domain 1 decreased (p < 0.05), 6-Minute Walk Test (6MWT) decreased (p < 0.01) and 10-Meter Walk Test (10MWT) increased (p < 0.01). Accelerometry showed a significant change in moderate activity in LAMA2-MD (p <0.01), no changes were observed in SELENON-RM.DiscussionOver 1.5 years, LAMA2-MD remained mostly stable, while SELENON-RM showed minimal functional decline on select outcome measures. Both cohorts showed HHD increases, likely reflecting age-related development. Most measures did not capture disease progression, however MFM-20/32, 6MWT and 10MWT showed small significant changes in SELENON-RM, suggesting potential trial endpoints.
Several therapies using adeno-associated virus (AAVs) as gene delivery tool have received marketing approval in the past. However, potential applications of AAVs are limited by their restricted gene packaging capacities (<4,7kb). Many monogenic diseases are caused by large complex genes with hundreds of pathogenic variants that exceed AAV capacity. Merosin-deficient Congenital Muscular dystrophy type 1A is a severe monogenic recessive disease caused by the absence of functional copies of the LAMA2 gene. To date, no treatment options are available, with the most promising approach being gene replacement therapy to provide a functional copy. The LAMA2 coding sequence, spanning 9,3 kb, encodes for the laminin-α2, a subunit of the trimeric protein Laminin-211 found in the basement membrane of skeletal muscle cells and Schwan cells. Efforts have been focused on gene or protein replacement along with basement membrane engineering. Here, we exploit the ability of inteins to reconstitute full-length protein in a scarless manner. Using a combination of three AAVs, each encoding for one fragment of the laminin-α2 protein flanked by short split intein, resulted in the complete reconstitution of the Laminin-α2 and an improvement of the histopathological features of the dy2j dystrophic mouse model.Copyright © 2026 The American Society of Gene and Cell Therapy. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Diabetic retinopathy (DR) reflects retinal microvascular injury and systemic immune-metabolic stress, and most public DR transcriptomic datasets lack paired microbiome/metabolomic profiles. We used gutMGene v2.0 as a curated microbe/metabolite-host gene prior and integrated it with peripheral blood transcriptomics from GSE221521. Candidate genes were refined by weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), repeated resampling, cross-dataset assessment, mechanism scoring, peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) single-cell localization and filamin A (FLNA)-centered single-cell gene regulatory network (GRN) virtual knockout. The gutMGene prior contained 238 host genes; 15 DR-associated genes overlapped this prior, and WGCNA retained ten candidate gut microbe and microbial metabolite-related genes (GMMRGs): FLNA, AKT1, IRAK1, BCL10, CDK6, CTSD, JUP, CXCL1, CXCR2 and IL4R. Resampling prioritized FLNA as the most consistent candidate. Cross-dataset assessment localized the strongest signal to type 2 diabetes (T2D) PBMCs, retinal endothelial cells and advanced proliferative diabetic retinopathy with diabetic macular edema (PDR + DME) retinal tissue, with weaker separation in whole blood, broad retinal tissue and six-donor type 1 diabetes (T1D) PBMCs. FLNA virtual knockout predicted cell-context-dependent perturbation of immune-related transcriptional programs, including IL4R in DR B cells and CTSD in DR monocytes/NK cells. This prior-guided study identifies FLNA within a ten-gene GMMRG set as a circulating host-response signal that links curated microbe/metabolite-host records to immune-vascular and cytoskeletal remodeling in DR.
Neural stem cells (NSCs) are the basis of neurogenesis and neural regeneration and are widely used as models for drug test and disease therapy. However, how NSCs self-renewal is modulated is not fully understood. In this study, we show that cytoskeletal Filamin A (FLNA) acts as a negative regulator in NSCs proliferation or self-renew. FLNA can be localized to the nucleoli of both NE-4C and C17.2 cell lines. FLNA silencing activated the expression of Pol Ⅰ products. In contrast, FLNA overexpression dampened rDNA transcription, suggesting that FLNA suppresses NSCs proliferation by downregulating Pol Ⅰ-directed transcription. Mechanistically, FLNA downregulates Pol I-directed transcription by inhibiting RRN3 expression and the occupancies of the Pol I transcription machinery factors at the rDNA promoter. In addition, FLNA suppresses NSCs proliferation by maintaining high levels of P53 and PTEN expression. Finally, we show that FLNA silencing does not affect the identity of neural stem cells, but inhibits neuronal differentiation from neural stem cells. These findings provide a novel insight into the mechanisms by which FLNA negatively regulates NSCs self-renew.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) is a growing global health burden, with advanced fibrosis and liver-related events (LREs) being key prognostic factors. However, existing non-invasive biomarkers insufficiently capture both fibrosis severity and LRE risk. This study aimed to identify a mechanistically grounded biomarker for clinical risk stratification.We performed an integrative multi-omics analysis using publicly available hepatic transcriptomic and plasma proteomic datasets together with in-house spatial transcriptomic analyses, followed by validation in three MASLD cohorts: biopsy-confirmed Japanese (n = 430), VCTE-based (n = 120), and UK Biobank (n = 4,486) cohorts. LRE risk was assessed using Kaplan-Meier and Cox regression analyses. Single-nucleus RNA sequencing (snRNA-seq), in situ hybridization (ISH), and in vitro assays using hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) were performed to assess molecular localization and functional relevance.Complement component 7 (C7) was consistently identified as a top candidate. Spatial transcriptomics and ISH localized C7 expression to activated HSCs within fibrotic regions. Serum C7 levels strongly correlated with fibrosis stage and liver stiffness. A threshold ≥140 μg/mL predicted significantly higher LRE risk and remained independently predictive (HR 4.54, 95% CI 1.49-13.82). C7 outperformed FIB-4, autotaxin, APRI, FAST, and AAR in AUROC analysis (0.90 vs. 0.85, 0.84, 0.77, 0.75, 0.67). External validation in UK Biobank supported these findings. Spatial module-score analyses linked C7-enriched regions to ECM/HSC-related fibrogenic programs and progenitor/ductular reaction signatures. C7 knockdown in LX-2 cells suppressed extracellular matrix genes including LAMA2, LAMB1, and COL6A3.C7 is a mechanistically supported, non-invasive biomarker that surpasses conventional indices in predicting fibrosis and LREs in MASLD. These findings highlight complement-mediated fibrogenesis and suggest C7 as a promising tool for clinical risk stratification.This study identifies complement component 7 (C7) as a non-invasive biomarker associated with fibrosis severity and liver-related events in MASLD through an integrative multi-omics approach. C7 was linked to HSC-rich fibrotic niches, extracellular matrix remodeling, and future liver-related risk, with external validation in the UK Biobank cohort. These findings suggest that serum C7 may improve risk stratification by capturing both fibrosis burden and clinically relevant disease progression in MASLD.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Cerebral small vessel diseases (CSVDs) are a group of disorders affecting the small arteries, veins, and capillaries supplying the white matter and deep grey matter structures. They are the most common form of cerebrovascular disease, accounting for approximately half of vascular dementia cases and 20% of stroke incidence. Whilst genetic testing is a routine diagnostic tool for monogenic CSVDs, less than 20% of patients have a causal variant in known CSVD genes. We performed whole exome sequencing on 117 patients suspected of monogenic CSVD who previously tested negative for pathogenic variants in seven well-characterised CSVD genes (NOTCH3, HTRA1, COL4A1, COL4A2, TREX1, GLA, and FOXC1). Targeted analysis was conducted on known and associated CSVD genes, as well as candidate genes which cause conditions with overlapping symptomology to CSVD. Burden analysis focussing on rare, functional variants was used to identify novel associations when compared against a cohort of 1035 non-neurological controls. We identified 18 suspected disease-causing variants across nine CSVD-associated genes and a significant burden of both rare and rare, likely disease-causing heterozygous variants in ABCC6. Two genes from stroke and neurodegenerative disease gene panels also possessed a significant burden of rare, likely disease-causing variants, MYH11 (adjusted P = 1 × 10-2) and NOTCH1 (adjusted P = 1 × 10-2). We further identified novel associations for seven genes (COL7A1, HMCN1, LAMA1, MMP9, TENM4, TNC, TTN) with monogenic CSVD in this cohort. Our findings implicate several genes as potentially causal of monogenic CSVD, highlighting the need for more extensive genetic screening in suspected CSVD cases, and functional characterisation of implicated variants to determine their mechanistic role in CSVD pathogenesis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Multiple myeloma (MM) remains an incurable hematological malignancy with heterogeneous outcomes, necessitating the identification of novel prognostic markers for improved patient stratification and treatment.This study investigated the prognostic significance of disulfidptosis-related genes (DRGs) in MM, analyzing 1,272 samples from TCGA_MMRF and GSE4581 datasets. To explore the biological functions of key DRGs, si-RNA was used to conduct in vitro experimental verification.Through comprehensive bioinformatic analyses, we identified four genes (FLNA, GYS1, LRPPRC, and MYH10) significantly associated with MM prognosis. These DRGs linked the signature to disulfidptosis biology in MM. A novel four-gene signature effectively stratified patients into high-risk and low-risk groups with distinct survival outcomes, remained an independent prognostic factor, and varied significantly across disease stages. High-risk scores were associated with pathways involving mRNA processing, DNA replication, and cell cycle progression, as well as immune shifts in neutrophil and plasma-cell fractions. Drug-sensitivity modeling showed distinct IC50 patterns between risk groups, with LRPPRC and GYS1 negatively correlated with sensitivity to selected agents. In vitro, LRPPRC knockdown in RPMI 8226 and U266 reduced viability and colony formation while increasing apoptosis, supporting the biological relevance of the signature.This novel DRGs signature not only provides a valuable tool for patient stratification but also offers insights into the biological processes driving MM progression and potential therapeutic targets.S. Karger AG, Basel.
Background: Atherosclerosis is a major pathological basis of cardiovascular disease and is influenced by both genetic and environmental factors. Although genome-wide association studies have identified the LAMB2 p.E987K variant as a susceptibility locus for atherosclerosis, its functional role remains unclear. Methods: In this study, a rabbit model carrying the homologous LAMB2 p.E991K mutation was generated using the CRISPR/Cas9-SpG system and subjected to a high-fat diet to induce atherosclerosis. Results: LAMB2 mutant rabbits exhibited increased body weight and significant lipid metabolic abnormalities. Oil Red O staining demonstrated enhanced lipid accumulation and larger atherosclerotic plaques in the aorta. In addition, α-SMA expression was reduced, whereas CD4 and MCP-1 expression was elevated, suggesting vascular smooth muscle cell loss and altered immune responses. Laminin β2 (LAMB2) expression was markedly decreased and accompanied by basement membrane disruption. Furthermore, activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome was observed in mutant rabbits. Conclusions: These findings demonstrate that the LAMB2 p.E991K mutation promotes HFD-induced atherosclerosis by impairing basement membrane integrity, enhancing inflammation, and disrupting lipid metabolism, highlighting LAMB2 as a genetic modifier of atherosclerosis susceptibility.
Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD) and Lewy body dementia (LBD) overlap clinically, pathologically and genetically, complicating interpretation of cross-disorder genome-wide association study (GWAS) signals.We analysed 322,963 UK Biobank participants with bidirectional time-varying Cox models, one-year and two-year lag analyses, and competing-risk sensitivity models to quantify AD-PD clinical co-occurrence. We then analysed European-ancestry AD, PD and LBD GWAS summary statistics using linkage disequilibrium score regression (LDSC), GCTA-mtCOJO/GSMR, MAGMA, stratified LDSC, brain eQTL/mQTL SMR with HEIDI filtering, and Bayesian colocalization for selected methylation probes. Conditional loci were compared with original GWAS loci to separate shared liability from retained disorder-predominant associations.PD was associated with subsequent AD (fully adjusted HR 2.27, 95% CI 1.94-2.65; P = 6.40E-25), and AD was associated with subsequent PD (HR 3.14, 95% CI 2.56-3.85; P = 2.10E-28). Lag and competing-risk sensitivity analyses remained concordant. LDSC estimated positive genetic correlations for AD-PD (rg = 0.20; P = 0.0086) and PD-LBD (rg = 0.61; P = 0.0005). Conditioning reduced genome-wide significant loci from 14 to 9 for AD, from 24 to 21 for PD and from 5 to 2 for LBD. Retained loci included AD signals near CR1, BIN1, CLU, SPI1, MS4A, PICALM, ABCA7 and APOE; PD signals near GBA, NUCKS1, TMEM163, STK39, GAK/TMEM175, BST1, SNCA, LRRK2, MAPT and RIT2; and LBD signals near SNCA/MMRN1 and APOE. MAGMA and S-LDSC highlighted amyloid, lipid, immune, synaptic-vesicle and brain-tissue enrichment patterns. Brain QTL analyses prioritized retained eQTL and mQTL signals, and colocalization supported shared PD-GWAS/mQTL signals at HLA-DRB5, ARHGAP27, CRHR1, MAPT and KANSL1.AD and PD show bidirectional clinical co-occurrence, whereas conditional genetic analyses retain a smaller set of disease-predominant loci and regulatory signals across AD, PD and LBD. These findings refine cross-disorder interpretation and nominate loci for independent genetic and functional validation.Copyright © 2026 Zhang, Zhang, Qiu and Hu.
Podocyte injury is a central driver of proteinuria and progressive kidney dysfunction. Although podocytes are continuously exposed to diverse stressors in both physiological and pathological contexts, the dynamic processes underlying their adaptation and eventual failure remain poorly defined. Here, we performed integrative single-nucleus RNA sequencing of kidney tissues from patients with six types of representative chronic glomerulonephritis, capturing a spectrum of podocyte injury states. We identified distinct podocyte subpopulations and reconstructed a dynamic trajectory characterized by an initial adaptive activation followed by progressive functional decline. Integration with time-resolved transcriptomics identified 778 candidate genes associated with podocyte stress responses. To distinguish putative functional drivers from secondary transcriptional changes, we integrated these candidates with a genome-wide CRISPR-Cas9 knockout screen, prioritizing genes required for podocyte survival under stress conditions. Subsequent siRNA-mediated validation of five representative candidates-BST1, TALDO1, ATP6V1E1, PPP2R1A and CHL1-showed that knockdown of these genes significantly compromised cell viability and accelerated apoptosis, highlighting a coordinated survival network spanning metabolic regulation, autophagy, and cytoskeletal stability. Our findings define a dynamic framework of podocyte stress adaptation and failure, and suggest that targeting stress-response pathways may prolong podocyte survival, thereby extending the therapeutic window for intervention in chronic kidney disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42438055 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42417999 is a review article
Identifying disease-modifying drug targets is crucial for developing effective Alzheimer's disease (AD) treatments.We present a deep contrastive learning framework for cell type-specific AD-associated genes identification (alzCL). alzCL creates cell-type-specific representations of genes by integrating human brain single-nucleus RNA-sequencing data with the human protein-protein interactome, thereby capturing both genetic signatures and functional features.By integrating human brain snRNA-seq data, alzCL outperforms the state-of-the-art models by 18% to 24% in area under the receiver operating characteristic curve. Via alzCL, we computationally identified 16, 164, and 221 AD-associated genes across astrocytes, microglia, and inhibitory neurons, respectively. Top prioritized genes (e.g., MAP3K5, P2RX4, and PRKD1) are significantly enriched in multiple AD-associated inflammatory and other pathobiological pathways. By integrating drug-target interaction data with alzCL-predicted AD-associated genes, we identified potential repurposable drugs for AD, including selonsertib and paroxetine.AlzCL offers a deep contrastive learning framework for discovery of disease-associated genes and drug targets in AD.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Diagnosis, Assessment & Disease Monitoring published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Unexplained recurrent spontaneous abortion (URSA) accounts for approximately 50% of all recurrent spontaneous abortion cases, severely endangering the physical and mental health of women of childbearing age. Yang-Xue-An-Tai Decoction (YXAT), a traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) in-hospital preparation, has been clinically effective and safe for URSA treatment for over 30 years, but its underlying mechanism remains unclear.The purpose of this study was to explore the pharmacological mechanism of YXAT in the treatment of URSA, focusing on clarifying its multi-target mechanism in regulating the differentiation of decidual stromal cell (DSC) subtypes.The classic Clark mouse model of URSA was established to verify YXAT's improvement effect on abortion. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was employed to construct the uterine single-cell atlas of model and YXAT-treated mice at gestational day 7.5 (GD7.5). YXAT's regulation on decidualization was verified by detecting decidualization markers; decidual stromal cell subtypes were analyzed, and its regulatory effect on subtype differentiation was confirmed via pseudotime analysis and intercellular communication. Moreover, YXAT's role in regulating abnormal decidual stromal cell differentiation in URSA was validated in animal and clinical samples.YXAT significantly improved decidualization and improved pregnancy outcomes in URSA mice. Subcluster analysis of DSCs revealed that proliferating DSCs (proDSCs)-a central hub for DSC differentiation-were abnormally downregulated in URSA mice, and this reduction was restored by YXAT, with a significantly better effect than that of the positive drug dydrogesterone. Integrated analysis identified Lgals1 as a key overlapping gene regulated by YXAT and linked to proDSC differentiation. We propose that Lgals1 acts as a candidate regulator, and the recovery of Lgals1 expression coincides with the restoration of proDSC differentiation following YXAT treatment. Additionally, URSA mice exhibited enhanced NK cell-proDSC communication with excessive inflammatory activation (e.g., Spp1-Cd44, Gzma-Pard3) and immune suppression-related ligand-receptor pairs (e.g., Spp1-(Itgav + Itgb5), Lamb2-Dag1), which were attenuated by YXAT. The abnormal downregulation of proDSCs was further verified in human URSA samples, highlighting its clinical relevance.Disordered proDSC differentiation correlates with defective decidualization and adverse pregnancy phenotypes in URSA mice. Multiple favorable cellular and molecular changes are observed alongside YXAT intervention, including recovered proDSC abundance, restored expression of the differentiation-associated gene Lgals1, and normalized abnormal NK cell-proDSC intercellular signaling. These correlative observations offer new insights into the clinical potential of YXAT and advance our understanding of TCM interventions against URSA.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Genomic instability in high-grade serous tubo-ovarian carcinoma (HGSTOC) can generate fusion genes with potential roles in tumor evolution and clinical relevance. HGSTOCs commonly disseminate prior to diagnosis, but most studies analyze only one tumor sample per patient, limiting understanding of fusion gene dynamics. Here, RNA sequencing was performed on 108 tumor samples from multiple intra‑abdominal sites in 23 patients. A consensus approach involving three fusion callers identified 170 high-confidence fusion genes present in all samples from each patient, most of which were non‑recurrent and not in-frame. Protein kinases were significantly enriched among fusion partners, and commonly retained intact catalytic domains. Several of the kinase fusion genes may have oncogenic relevance, including AKAP8L::BRD4 (recurrent in three patients), GPBP1L1::MKNK1, SPAG16::ERBB4, UGP2::MAPK4, and STRN3::PRKD1. Four fusions involved homologous recombination-related genes, including FUT10::SPIDR, RAD54B::VIRMA, RAD54L::PLXNA2, and SMARCAD1::BOD1L1. Integration of these fusion genes with other somatic alterations in homologous recombination-related genes, deficiency signatures, and germline BRCA1/2 variants increased the involvement of the homologous recombination pathway to 15 HGSTOCs (65%). Overall, HGSTOC has a heterogeneous fusion gene landscape, and multi-site sampling with consensus calling offers a robust strategy for resolving fusion profiles.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
To investigate epigenetic and transcriptional alterations in children with Wiedemann-Steiner syndrome (WDSTS) due to variants of KMT2A gene using genome-wide DNA methylation array and RNA sequencing (RNA-seq), and identify the key pathways and candidate genes.A retrospective study was carried out for 16 children with WDSTS and 10 healthy controls who visited Shanghai Children's Medical Center, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine between November 2016 and December 2024. Peripheral blood samples were collected. Genomic DNA and total RNA were extracted using commercially made kits. Genome-wide DNA methylation profiling was conducted to identify differentially methylated positions (DMPs) and annotated genes, followed by Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses. RNA-seq was performed to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and conduct GO/KEGG functional annotation. Methylation and expression data were integrated to identify overlapping genes showing significant changes at both levels, followed by GO, KEGG and gene-pathway network analyses. This study was approved by the Ethics Committee of the hospital (Ethics No.: GKLW-A-2024-006-01).A total of 2 652 DMPs corresponding to 1 262 genes were identified, which included 833 hypermethylated genes (66%) and 429 hypomethylated genes (34%). Hypermethylated genes were mainly enriched for functions related to cell junctions, while hypomethylated genes were significantly involved in nervous system development and morphogenesis. RNA-seq identified 2 627 DEGs, including 765 up-regulated genes (29%) and 1 862 down-regulated genes (71%). Up-regulated genes were mainly associated with immune-related processes, and down-regulated genes were mainly related to substance transport. Integrative analysis identified 93 overlapping genes with significant changes in both methylation and expression. And these genes were enriched in extracellular matrix-related processes, calcium ion binding, neurodevelopment, and cell adhesion. Key candidate genes, including LAMB1, LAMB2 and NID1, were further prioritized.Integrated analysis of DNA methylation and transcriptome data reveals WDSTS-related epigenetic-transcriptional alterations and provides clues for exploring disease mechanisms and optimizing diagnostic strategies.
Enterovirus A71 (EV-A71), a member of the genus Enterovirus within the family Picornaviridae, induces neuroinflammation; however, the underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood. This study demonstrates that the C5a-C5aR1 axis plays a pivotal role in EV-A71-induced blood-brain barrier (BBB) disruption and neuroinflammation, primarily by regulating neutrophil migration. Using human brain specimens and a mouse model, we observed pronounced inflammatory cell infiltration in the brainstem and BBB disruption following EV-A71 infection. Immunofluorescence analysis revealed robust activation of the C5a-C5aR1 axis in fatal EV-A71 cases. Notably, C5aR1 knockout (KO) mice displayed reduced Evans blue extravasation and preserved tight junction protein expression after infection. Immunopathological examination of fatal human cases further confirmed perivascular neutrophil (CD177⁺) infiltration in the brainstem. Importantly, C5aR1 deficiency significantly attenuated neutrophil accumulation and neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) release. Given that peptidylarginine deiminase 4 (PAD4) is a key enzyme driving NET formation, we generated neutrophil-specific PAD4 knockout mice (PAD4 Ne-KO) by crossing S100A8-Cre and PAD4fl/fl lines. As anticipated, neutrophil-specific PAD4 deletion or pharmacological NET blockade substantially ameliorated BBB injury and neuroinflammation following EV-A71 infection. Overall, our findings underscore a critical role for the C5a-C5aR1-neutrophil/NETs pathway in EV-A71 encephalitis pathogenesis and support its targeting as a therapeutic strategy for critically ill patients.Copyright: © 2026 Zhu et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Sepsis remains a leading cause of mortality in critical care, with dysregulated inflammatory responses driving disease progression. However, the role of necroptosis in sepsis pathogenesis remains incompletely understood.Here, through integration of multi-center cohort data (n = 1,265) and weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), we constructed a six-gene necroptosis signature (CEBPD, CEBPB, MARCKS, SOCS3, PIM3, and JUNB) that correlated with sepsis severity and outcomes. Subsequently, we detected the expression of these genes in whole blood using qPCR. Furthermore, machine learning models incorporating this signature were evaluated across independent cohorts. Single-cell data analysis and flow cytometric analysis were further performed to characterize CD177+ neutrophils in sepsis.All six Model-score genes were upregulated in sepsis patients, with four of them showing significant differences. Machine learning models incorporating this signature achieved robust diagnostic performance across independent cohorts. At the transcriptomic level, necroptosis activation showed a strong correlation with both the IL-6/STAT3 and TNF-α/NF-κB inflammatory pathways and distinct myeloid subsets. Single-cell data analysis further revealed that CD177+ neutrophils were significantly enriched in non-surviving sepsis patients and exhibited the highest necroptosis transcriptional score. Flow cytometric analysis revealed a significant increase in neutrophils, particularly the CD177+ subset, in the whole blood of septic patients. Furthermore, CD177+ neutrophils displayed blunted interferon responses alongside heightened production of inflammatory mediators, with nitric oxide (NO) potentially serving as an associated factor.Collectively, our findings suggest that CD177+ neutrophils may be involved in necroptosis-related inflammation in sepsis and provide a clinically relevant gene signature for patient stratification, offering new perspectives for potential therapeutic exploration in sepsis management.Copyright © 2026 Liu, Cheng, Li, Wei, Yuan, Wang, Wang, Liu and Zheng.
Immune effector cell-associated neurotoxicity syndrome (ICANS) is a major complication after CAR T cell therapy, but its underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. We performed longitudinal immune profiling of paired whole blood and serum samples from patients with relapsed or refractory diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL) treated with CD19 CAR T cells. At peak neurotoxicity, high-dimensional mass cytometry and serum proteomics identified the expansion of CD163+ monocytes and immature CD10lowCD101low neutrophils correlated with elevated serum ST2 and IL-2RA concentrations. Integrative immune module analysis identified these features among the strongest predictors of ICANS severity. Independent single-cell transcriptomic profiling validated the emergence of immunoregulatory CD163+ monocytes and identified CD177 as a biomarker of ICANS-associated immature neutrophils. Together, these findings reveal a coordinated myeloid inflammatory network associated with ICANS and nominate candidate biomarkers and therapeutic targets for improving the safety of CAR T cell therapy.
Objective To investigate the distribution characteristics of the genotypes and allele frequencies of HNA-1~-5 alleles in a blood donor population from Jiangsu Province. Methods Genomic DNA was extracted from 300 peripheral blood samples collected from healthy donors. All samples were genotyped using an optimized polymerase chain reaction-sequence specific primer (PCR-SSP) protocol. Randomly selected results were verified by direct sequencing, and genotype distributions were tested for conformity to Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. Samples identified as potential HNA-1 null were confirmed by polymerase chain reaction sequencing-based typing (PCR-SBT) and polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP). Results The allele frequencies for HNA-1a, HNA-1b, and HNA-1c were 58.6%, 41.4%, and 0%, respectively. Two identified HNA-1 null cases were confirmed to result from a complete deletion of the Fc gamma receptor IIIb (FCGR3B) gene. The allele frequency of the HNA-2-encoding CD177 gene was 100%, with no HNA-2 null cases detected due to the homozygous c.787 A>T (TT) mutation. The allele frequencies for HNA-3a, HNA-3b, HNA-4a, HNA-4b, HNA-5a, and HNA-5b were 63.0%, 37.0%, 100%, 0%, 88.8%, and 11.2%, respectively. No statistically significant differences in HNA allele frequencies were found between the Jiangsu population and those from Shanghai or Zhejiang. However, significant differences were observed when compared to the Guangzhou population specifically for the HNA-1a/1a (P=0.008), HNA-3a/3a (P=0.033), and HNA-3b/3b (P=0.022) genotypes. Conclusion This study establishes the HNA genotype and allele frequency profile for the Jiangsu blood donor population, providing essential baseline data for research into HNA-related alloimmunization. Furthermore, it optimizes a methodology suitable for large-scale HNA screening and establishes a comprehensive confirmatory testing protocol for HNA-1 null, thereby laying a technical foundation for subsequent research on this allele.
Zinc (Zn)-based metals have been considered as promising materials for bone regeneration and repair. Neutrophils, as the initial responders in the acute inflammatory phase, play a critical role by generating specialized mediators that facilitate the natural resolution of inflammation. Nevertheless, the mechanisms governing neutrophil-driven inflammation following the implantation of Zn-based metals are not fully elucidated. This study investigated neutrophil-macrophage crosstalk around Zn-based implants using single-cell transcriptomic profiling. A high-resolution cellular atlas of the peri-implant bone marrow microenvironment was generated in a rat femoral model comparing Zn-based implants with the titanium (Ti) ones. The results revealed that Zn implants induced a distinct neutrophil (Neu) subset heterogeneity, including Cd177+ Neu, Ifit1bl+ Neu, RatNP-3b+ Neu, and Prtn3+ Neu, the latter demonstrating enhanced tissue repair ability through osteoclast differentiation pathways. Zn-based metallic implants reduced macrophage (Mac) reactivity and promoted Hp+ Mac dominance compared to Ti implants, which showed higher Apoe+ Mac proportions. Crosstalk analysis identified a significant interaction between the neutrophil subset Ifit1bl+ Neu and the macrophage subset Eno3+ Mac under Zn implantation, mediated by the Lgals9-Ighm ligand-receptor axis. These findings suggested that degradation products of Zn-based implants modulated immune cell differentiation and interaction networks, thereby modulating biological response.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42429844 is a review article
This study aimed to determine the clinicopathologic implications and tumor cell interaction of CD66b-positive (CD66b +) tumor-associated neutrophils (TANs) and CD66b and CD177 double positive (CD66b + /CD177 +) activated TANs in gastric cancer (GC).Single immunohistochemistry (sIHC) for CD66b, CD8, HER2, p53, and E-cadherin was performed in 1,060 patients with GC, together with microsatellite instability (MSI) testing and Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) in situ hybridization. Opal multiplex immunofluorescence (mIF) for cytokeratin (CK), CD66b, and CD177, and sIHC for ERα was performed on 59 microsatellite-stable (MSS) and 60 MSI-high (MSI-H) GCs. The immune cell densities were quantified using QuPath for sIHC and InForm for mIF.On sIHC, a high density of CD66b + TANs was correlated with HER2 positivity, EBV positivity, and MSI-H phenotype (p < 0.001). Combined analysis of CD66b + TAN densities in the tumor center and invasive margin showed a significant association with better OS (p = 0.036), independent of major clinicopathologic factors. TAN densities were significantly associated with OS in female patients (p < 0.001), but not in male patients (p = 0.574). The density of ERα-positive immune cells was inversely correlated with TAN density (ρ = -0.41, p < 0.001). mIF analysis demonstrated that both CD66b + TANs and CD66b + /CD177 + activated TANs were significantly more abundant in MSI-H GC than in MSS GC. Moreover, the distance between TANs and CK + GC cells was significantly shorter in MSI-H GC than in MSS GC. A shorter distance between CD66b + /CD177 + activated TANs and GC cells was also associated with a better OS (p = 0.041).A high TAN density in GC is associated with a favorable prognosis, and the spatial proximity of TANs to GC cells, especially in MSI-H GC, provides additional prognostic value. These findings provide basic knowledge for the development of therapeutic targets related to TANs in GC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Cigarette smoke is the major environmental risk factor for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), driving progressive lung inflammation and tissue injury. However, distinguishing general smoke-responsive transcriptional changes from COPD-related molecular signatures remains challenging.Public time-series transcriptomic datasets of cigarette smokeokemains challenging. and tissue injury. ity, Han-related chronic airway inflammation model (GSE132661) were analyzed. Principal component analysis (PCA), differential expression analysis, gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis, and functional enrichment were performed to characterize stage-dependent transcriptional dynamics. Candidate genes were further evaluated using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis, quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR), and exploratory analysis in a human COPD transcriptomic dataset.PCA revealed progressively increased transcriptomic divergence with prolonged smoke exposure. GSEA demonstrated a shift from early epithelial differentiation and barrier-related alterations to activation of pro-inflammatory and immune migration pathways. Six consistently upregulated genes were identified. Among them, CD177 and KRT85 showed stable expression changes across time points and models, with qPCR confirming significant upregulation after 2 and 5 months of smoke exposure (P < 0.001). Exploratory human dataset analysis suggested heterogeneous and severity-dependent expression patterns.This integrative time-series analysis identifies CD177 and KRT85 as murine model-derived candidate genes associated with cigarette smokeeverity confirming significant upregulation after 2 and 5 tial expression analysis, gene ance in human COPD remains exploratory, heterogeneous, and severity-dependent, and further validation in larger, clinically well-characterized cohorts is required.Copyright © 2026 Long, Qiu, Jiang, Guo, Tu and Chen.
Schistosomiasis morbidity and mortality are primarily driven by egg-triggered granulomas with subsequent fibrosis. However, the dynamics of cellular composition within these granulomas, particularly the identity and function of key immune cells that orchestrate their formation and evolution, remain poorly understood. Here, we combine single-cell RNA sequencing with multiplex immunofluorescence to characterize the hepatic immune landscape in Schistosoma japonicum-infected mice and further validate the functional roles of two neutrophil subsets. We find that eggs alter hepatic immune cell composition, which is characterized by extensive neutrophil recruitment and differentiation. Neutrophil recruitment correlates with CXCL2 derived from both an autocrine loop and paracrine signaling from monocytes. Cellular localization analysis reveals that granulomas progress through three distinct developmental stages: early Ly6GhiF4/80loDesminlo, developing Ly6GmidF4/80hiDesminmid, and advanced Ly6GloF4/80midDesminhi. Neutrophil subsets display a zonal distribution within granulomas, with CD177+ neutrophils surrounding the eggs and Ltf+ neutrophils localizing to the mid-outer layer. Cd177 knockdown reduces granuloma size and fibrosis, whereas Ltf suppression increases these pathological features, indicating that CD177 and LTF exert opposite effects on granuloma formation. Our findings provide new insights into the cellular complexity of S. japonicum egg-induced granulomas and may help guide the development of novel therapies for liver fibrosis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP) is a heterogeneous inflammatory disease with variable outcomes following functional endoscopic sinus surgery (FESS). Predictive biomarkers for post-FESS CRSwNP recurrence remain poorly defined.Identify tissue-based predictors of CRSwNP recurrence after FESS and assess dupilumab-induced modifications.From a cohort of patients with CRSwNP (including NSAID-exacerbated respiratory disease [NSAID-ERD]) who underwent FESS, we retrospectively identified 91 who could be dichotomized by clinical outcome as post-FESS "rapid recurrence" (<1 year) or "slow/no recurrence" (>2 years without recurrence). Nasal polyp tissue was analyzed for 69 inflammatory mediators using proteomics and ELISA. Logistic regression with LASSO feature selection identified candidate predictors. In an independent, second prospective cohort of 17 CRSwNP patients initiating dupilumab, nasal fluid was collected at baseline and after two months of dupilumab and profiled for the same mediators.Twenty-three tissue mediators strongly predicted rapid CRSwNP recurrence (AUC >0.70), including markers of type (T) 2 inflammation (IL-4, IL-13, IL-5Rα, ECP, IgE) and innate inflammation and/or myeloid involvement (CCL3/4/7/8/13, CSF2, IL-1β, IL-6, OSM, MMP12, HIF-1α, TNF-α, TNFSF14). Of these, dupilumab significantly reduced IL-5Rα and several chemokines (CCL3, CCL4, CCL13) but had no effect on key myeloid mediators (CCL8, CSF2, IL-1β, MMP12, HIF-1α).Both T2 and non-T2 mediators play a role in rapid post-FESS recurrence in CRSwNP. T2 blockade with dupilumab reduces T2-associated mediators but does not suppress a parallel innate/myeloid inflammatory axis. The persistence of this axis during treatment suggests that innate and myeloid mediators may underlie severe CRSwNP and could influence disease recurrence once T2 signaling is no longer inhibited, representing potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets to improve long-term disease control.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565029 is a review article
The neurohypophysis (NH) is a specialized neuro-glial interface where neuronal, glial, and vascular elements coordinate neuroendocrine secretion and immune signalling. Its intrinsic plasticity supports adaptation to osmotic and inflammatory stress. Osmotic challenges, such as salt loading, induce structural and functional remodelling within the NH, engaging both microglia and pituicytes. To determine these adaptive processes, we examined the effects of 4 and 8 days of salt loading (2% NaCl) on cellular plasticity in the mouse NH. Pituicyte morpho-functional remodelling was assessed by immunohistochemistry using specific markers (GFAP, AQP4), while microglial activation and polarization were evaluated using Iba1 and CD206. These analyses were complemented by Western blot experiments, including the measurement of the pro-inflammatory cytokine IL-1β. Physiological parameters such as fluid intake, body weight, plasma osmolality and haematocrit were also evaluated. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed a marked morphological transformation of microglia from a ramified to an amoeboid phenotype following osmotic stimulation. Western blot analysis showed stable Iba1 expression, indicating that this activation occurred without microglial proliferation. After 8 days of salt loading, CD206 expression significantly increased, accompanied by a decrease in IL-1β, suggesting polarization of microglia toward an anti-inflammatory M2 profile. Additionally, GFAP expression decreased, whereas AQP4 expression increased, particularly in the perivascular region. Physiologically, salt loading increased fluid intake and haematocrit, reduced body weight, while plasma osmolality remained unchanged. Together, these findings indicate coordinated neuroimmune remodelling in the NH. The shift toward an anti-inflammatory glial profile and increased AQP4 expression likely represents an adaptive mechanism that supports tissue homeostasis during hyperosmotic stress.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Skeletal muscle loss is associated with cognitive decline, but whether neuroimaging-derived muscle characteristics predict incident dementia remains unclear.We evaluated associations of deep learning-derived temporalis muscle (TM) cross-sectional area (CSA) and radiomic texture features from baseline T1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with incident dementia in dementia-free participants from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) (n = 750) and the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) study (n = 532). TM was segmented using a convolutional neural network trained in ADNI and externally validated in ARIC. Radiomic features were reduced using least absolute shrinkage and selection operator-penalized Cox models to generate a composite score. Multivariable Cox regression adjusted for demographics, apolipoprotein E ε4, baseline cognition, body mass index, and physical performance.Higher TM radiomic scores were associated with increased dementia risk in ADNI (hazard ratio per SD, 1.32) and ARIC (1.64). Smaller TM CSA predicted dementia in ADNI but not ARIC.TM texture patterns from routine brain MRI are associated with dementia risk, supporting TM phenotyping as a scalable marker of systemic biological vulnerability.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a chronic degenerative joint disease characterized by progressive cartilage breakdown driven by inflammatory and oxidative stress mechanisms. Blue turmeric (Curcuma caesia Roxb.), a rare and understudied spice, represents a source of bioactive compounds with anti-inflammatory properties. This study aimed to characterize the phenolic profile of a blue turmeric rhizome extract (BTE) and its bioaccessible fraction obtained after in vitro gastrointestinal digestion, and to assess their biological effects on human chondrocytes (C-28/I2) exposed to interleukin-1 β (IL-1β). HPLC-MS/MS analyses revealed a phytochemical profile rich in phenolic acids and flavan-3-ols, with partial stability maintained after in vitro digestion. Pre-treatment with both native BTE and digested BTE (dBTE) protected chondrocytes against IL-1β-induced cytotoxicity, mitochondrial dysfunction, and nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) inactivation. Furthermore, BTE pre-treatment significantly reduced tumour necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) release and preserved cellular morphology. These findings demonstrate that BTE phenolic compounds are partially bioaccessible and exert chondroprotective effects, supporting further preclinical investigation of BTE as a potential functional ingredient for joint health maintenance and OA prevention strategies.
Globally, the disease burden of colorectal cancer has been gradually increasing. Radical resection is the cornerstone treatment for colorectal cancer, but postoperative gastrointestinal dysfunction has been a potential complication. Current therapies are unsatisfactory. Acupuncture has the merits of inexpensive and easy-operative and has the potential to be a promising strategy.This study aimed to observe the effect and safety of electroacupuncture in facilitating the postoperative recovery of colorectal cancer patients.Randomized controlled study.Prospective, single-center study.Patients over 18 years old who undergone radical resection of colorectal cancer.Electroacupuncture or sham electroacupuncture at 2h after surgery and on the morning of the first 2 days after surgery, with 30 minutes each session.The primary outcome was first flatus time. Secondary outcomes included first oral feeding time, bowel sound recovery time, length of postoperative hospitalization, adverse events, serum inflammatory cytokine indicators and heart rate variability indicators.One hundred fifteen patients met the inclusion criteria and 101 patients completed the treatment and were enrolled into statistical analysis. There was no statistically significant difference (p > 0.05) in baselines. First flatus time, first oral feeding time, bowel sound recovery time were improved in electroacupuncture group (p < 0.05). Length of postoperative hospitalization was not significantly different. On postoperative day 1, interleukin-1β was lower in electroacupuncture group (p < 0.05); On postoperative day 3, interleukin -1 β, and interleukin -6 were lower in electroacupuncture group (p < 0.05). Percentage of difference between adjacent normal RR intervals exceeding 50ms and high frequency were higher in electroacupuncture group (p < 0.05). Kaplan-Meier curve analysis, multiple linear regression and correlation analysis secured the stability of the main results.This is a single-center trial with a small sample size and long-term follow-up was absent. No blank control group was set.EA facilitated postoperative recovery without increasing the incidence of complications. This effect was hypothesized to be related to lower IL-1β/IL-6 levels and the rebalance of autonomic nervous system. See Video Abstract.Clinical trial registration: The trial has been registered at chictr.org.cn (ChiCTR2100050660 https://www.chictr.org.cn/hvshowproject.html?id=167502&v=1.9).Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. on behalf of the American Society of Colon and Rectal Surgeons.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42559224 is a review article
Sleep plays a critical role in memory consolidation; however, the precise molecular mechanisms linking sleep loss to cognitive impairment remain unclear. In this study, we show that even brief (4 h) sleep deprivation, when applied during the post-training consolidation window, selectively disrupts hippocampal-dependent memory in adult male mice, as evidenced by impairments in both novel object recognition and contextual fear conditioning. Proteomic profiling of hippocampal synaptosomes revealed a specific upregulation of interleukin-1 receptor type 1 (IL-1R1) following sleep deprivation. This was accompanied by a selective increase in the levels of its endogenous ligand IL-1β-but not IL-1α-in the hippocampus and serum. Direct intrahippocampal administration of IL-1β recapitulated the memory deficits observed after sleep deprivation, whereas conditional deletion of IL-1R1 in hippocampal excitatory neurons completely prevented these impairments. Strikingly, systemic treatment with an anti-IL-1β neutralizing antibody not only rescued sleep deprivation-induced memory dysfunction but also enhanced memory consolidation in non-sleep-deprived control animals, revealing a tonic inhibitory function of endogenous IL-1β in memory processes. Our results identify IL-1β/IL-1R1 signaling as a pivotal mediator of sleep deprivation-induced memory impairment and highlight this pathway as a promising therapeutic target for enhancing cognitive resilience under conditions of inadequate sleep.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42509809 is a review article
Piper nigrum is a medicinal and edible spice that is popular worldwide due to its unique spicy flavor, and is considered as a folk medicine for treating digestive system diseases. Piperine (PIP) is a bioactive alkaloid derived from P. nigrum, with remarkable hepatoprotective efficacy. Hepatic fibrosis represents a critical phase in the advancement of distinct chronic liver conditions towards cirrhosis, and currently lacks effective therapeutic drugs. The study aims to investigate the hepatoprotective functions of PIP and the underlying mechanism of PIP in combating hepatic fibrosis.C57BL/6J mice with hepatic fibrosis were induced by thioacetamide (TAA) and subsequently subjected to treatment with PIP or curcumin. Immortalized rat hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) were stimulated with transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β), followed by culture with PIP or niclosamide [signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) inhibitor], respectively. Human hepatic stellate cell line LX-2 were activated by TGF-β and transfected with specific small interfering RNA (siRNA) to silence STAT3 gene, and afterwards cultured with PIP. The mouse AML-12 cells and macrophage-like murine cells Raw 264.7 were stimulated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS), followed by culture with PIP.In vivo, PIP reduced serum transaminase levels, collagen deposition, and decreased the excessive accumulation of extracellular matrix (ECM), comprising α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA), collagen type I (Collagen I), and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-1 (TIMP-1)/matrix metalloproteinase 13 (MMP13) ratio expressions. PIP inhibited inflammatory cytokines release and myeloperoxidase (MPO) expression, including interleukin-1 receptor type 1 (IL-1R1), cysteine-aspartic acid protease-1 (Caspase-1), and IL-6. PIP specifically inhibited STAT3 phosphorylation at Ser727, downregulated phosphorylated janus kinase 2 (p-JAK2), and upregulated suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 (SOCS3) and protein inhibitor of activated STAT 1/3 (PIAS1/3) expressions. In vitro, PIP inhibited ECM deposition and inflammatory cytokines release in activated HSCs. PIP selectively suppressed p-STAT3 at Ser727 without affecting Tyr705, and modulated p-JAK2, SOCS3, and PIAS1/3 expressions in activated HSCs, function as a STAT3 inhibitor. PIP inhibited LPS‑induced M1 polarization of RAW 264.7 macrophages. PIP decreased Cleaved‑Caspase 3 expression and apoptotic cells in LPS‑induced AML‑12 hepatocytes. STAT3 deficiency amplified regulation of PIP on α-SMA and p-JAK2, as well as its upregulation on SOCS3 and PIAS1/3 in activated LX-2 cells.PIP improved hepatic fibrosis via inhibiting ECM excessive deposition and inflammatory secretion. Switching STAT3 phosphorylation at Ser727 might be the underlying targets for PIP against hepatic fibrosis, which provide an effective candidate and therapeutical strategy for hepatic fibrosis.© 2026 Tianjin Press of Chinese Herbal Medicines. Published by ELSEVIER B.V.
Evolutionary innovation is a key driver of the colonization of new environments and the adaptive radiations of major groups. Novel traits typically evolve through the modification of pre-existing characters but the genetic paths underlying their origin have been challenging to trace, and the general requirements for and relative order of different kinds of gene mutations have been difficult to assess. Here, we trace the genomic origins of four procoagulant venom toxins (factor X, factor V, group I phospholipase A2, and Kunitz-type toxins) that collectively underlie a novel, especially potent blood-clotting venom type in the recently evolved Australian brown snake and taipan clade. We discover evidence for a previously unknown fifth toxin, coagulation factor VII, and show that the toxins evolved through two distinct genetic paths. The factor X and factor V toxins evolved through the sequential de novo co-option of ancestral clotting factor proteins that entailed their heterotopic expression in the venom gland, the fixation of segmental duplications containing each locus, and subsequent gain-of-function mutations that rendered factor X and factor V constitutively active. In contrast, the phospholipase A2 and Kunitz-type toxins evolved by modifying the functions of neurotoxins that were part of the venom arsenal. Our findings support models in which innovative mutations in single-copy genes precede gene duplication in the evolution of novel proteins and offer a rare view into the genesis of a complex trait that has played a central role in a major adaptive radiation.
Interleukin-1 (IL-1) was one of the first inflammatory cytokines to be discovered in the peripheral immune system. It is a master regulator of the inflammatory responses to infection and injury in the entire body. Infection and injury to the central nervous system (CNS) inevitably activate the IL-1 system similar to the periphery. While the existence of inflammation in the CNS, neuroinflammation, is not surprising, the CNS represents a unique structure-functional entity that requires special consideration for the understanding of the role of the IL-1 system in the brain. First, the presence of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) restricts the entry of many immune signal molecules and cells from easy access to the brain, preventing undesirable consequences of peripheral style of inflammation (swelling, for example) that could overwhelm the finite space of the brain; second, the presence of brain specific cell types-neurons, astrocytes, microglia, oligodendrocytes, ventricular ependymal cells, and choroid plexus cells-suggests IL-1 system may conduct neuroinflammation differently in this special environment through these cell types; third, recent studies have revealed that IL-1 can directly modulate neural circuitry and function and the subsequent neuroimmune crosstalk impacts neuroinflammation, neural function, and behavior, expanding the role of the IL-1 system into the realm of neurobiology. This mini-review summarizes the current state of knowledge about how the CNS IL-1 system might regulate neuroinflammation.
Coagulation factor VII (FVII) is a vitamin K-dependent glycoprotein and serves as a key initiator of the extrinsic coagulation pathway. Hereditary FVII deficiency is an autosomal recessive genetic disorder with a highly heterogeneous bleeding phenotype. It is the most prevalent among rare hereditary bleeding disorders. Among the various genotypes, complex heterozygous variants are of particular importance in hereditary coagulation factor deficiency. This study reports a case of a patient with hereditary FVII deficiency. The patient presented for planned surgery for renal cysts. Preoperative evaluation revealed abnormal coagulation indicators; therefore, the surgery was temporarily postponed. Further investigations to clarify the cause revealed markedly prolonged prothrombin time (PT), significantly reduced FVII activity (FVII:C), and mildly decreased FVII antigen (FVII:Ag). Complex heterozygous variants (p.Ile303Thr and p.Cys389Gly) were identified, confirming the diagnosis of hereditary FVII deficiency. Thrombin generation assay (TGA) and thromboelastography (TEG) suggested that the patient's global coagulation capacity was not substantially impaired. No specific treatment was administered, and regular follow-up was conducted. In this compound heterozygous patient with markedly reduced FVII:C without bleeding, TGA and TEG may offer a better assessment of bleeding risk than FVII:C alone, and family screening facilitates identification and management of at-risk individuals.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) is a highly aggressive hematologic malignancy with limited treatment options for relapsed or refractory disease. Tumor Treating Fields (TTFields), low-intensity alternating electric fields that disrupt mitotic spindle assembly, have been clinically determined in numerous solid tumors, yet their effects in hematologic malignancies remain incompletely understood. In the present study, the cellular responses of T-ALL cells to TTFields were examined. Jurkat and MOLT-4 cells were exposed to 150 kHz and 0.7 V/cm fields for up to 96 h. TTFields treatment progressively suppressed cell proliferation, induced G2/M-phase arrest, altered cell-cycle distribution, increased apoptotic fractions and increased late-apoptotic fractions. TTFields exposure also increased side-scatter intensity (indicative of increased cellular granularity or internal complexity) and MitoTracker green fluorescence in both cell lines. Intracellular ATP levels were reduced in Jurkat cells, whereas no significant change was observed in MOLT-4 cells. In parallel, transcriptional analyses revealed downregulation of CD69 and IL-2 and upregulation of RELA proto-oncogene, NF-κB subunit and CBL proto-oncogene B. Collectively, these results demonstrate that TTFields induces cytostatic and apoptotic effects accompanied by measurable structural, bioenergetic and transcriptional alterations in T-ALL cells, supporting further investigation of TTFields as a physical therapeutic approach for hematologic malignancies.Copyright: © 2026 Heo and Yoon.
Endothelial dysfunction is a critical determinant of sepsis-associated organ injury, often driven by its interaction with overactivated immune cells. Neutrophils, the dominant early responders in sepsis, contribute to endothelial barrier disruption, yet the underlying metabolic and epigenetic mechanisms remain poorly understood. Here, we observed elevated intracellular lactate levels in neutrophils from septic patients which correlated with organ dysfunction and systemic inflammatory markers. Mechanistically, lactate-induced histone H3K18 lactylation (H3K18la) enhanced ATG7/GSA7 (autophagy related 7) transcription, initiating a non-degradative, secretory autophagy program. This facilitated the extracellular release of IL1B/IL-1B (interleukin 1 beta), a key driver of endothelial dysfunction. Interference of lactate production, ATG7 expression or IL1B signaling alleviated endothelial dysfunction in vitro. In vivo, myeloid-specific deletion of the lactylation writer EP300/p300 (EP300 lysine acetyltransferase) mitigated pulmonary endothelial dysfunction and lung injury. Additionally, the stress-responsive transcription factor ATF4/CREB-2 (activating transcription factor 4) was found to directly interact with both EP300 and H3K18la, amplifying H3K18la-driven ATG7 transcription. Our findings uncover a metabolically driven, epigenetically regulated secretory autophagy pathway in neutrophils that mediates endothelial dysfunction. Our study provides mechanistic insights into neutrophil-endothelial crosstalk in sepsis and identifies EP300, ATG7, and IL1B as potential therapeutic targets for sepsis.Abbreviations: ALI: acute lung injury; ANOVA: analysis of variance; ATF4/CREB-2: activating transcription factor 4; ATG7/GSA7: autophagy related 7; ATP: adenosine triphosphate; BafA1: bafilomycin A1; BMDN: bone marrow-derived neutrophil; C-CASP1: cleaved-caspase 1; CDH5/CD144: cadherin 5; CRP/PTX1: C-reactive protein; CST3: cystatin C; CXCL8/IL-8: C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 8; DAPI: 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole; DEG: differentially expressed gene; dHL-60: dimethyl sulfoxide-differentiated HL-60 cell; DMSO: dimethyl sulfoxide; ELISA: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; EP300/p300: EP300 lysine acetyltransferase; GOT1/AST: glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase 1; GPT/ALT: glutamic - pyruvic transaminase; GSDMD-N: gasdermin D N-terminal; H&E: hematoxylin and eosin; H3K18la: histone H3K18 lactylation; HRP: horseradish peroxidase; ICU: intensive care unit; IHC: immunohistochemistry; IL1B/IL-1B: interleukin 1 beta; IL1R1/CD121A: interleukin 1 receptor type 1; IL6/IL-6: interleukin 6; KEGG: Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes; LAMP1/CD107a: lysosome associated membrane protein 1; LDHA: lactate dehydrogenase A; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; NLRP3/NALP3: NLR family pyrin domain containing 3; PBS: phosphate-buffered saline; PCT: procalcitonin; PMN: peripheral neutrophils; Rapa: rapamycin; RNA-seq: RNA-sequencing; SERPINE1/PAI1: serpin family E member 1; SDS-PAGE: sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis; SOFA: Sequential Organ Failure Assessment; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TNF/TNF-alpha: tumor necrosis factor; panKla: pan-histone lactylation; VCAM1/CD106: vascular cell adhesion molecule 1.
High-grade serous carcinoma (HGSC) of the ovary acquires chemoresistance through diverse cancer cell-intrinsic and cell-extrinsic mechanisms, culminating in treatment-refractory intraperitoneal metastasis. Previous work suggests that chemotherapy induces immunological changes in the tumor microenvironment (TME). However, experimental evidence for how such chemotherapy-induced TME remodeling modulates the response to ongoing chemotherapy remains poorly documented in HGSC.We analyzed paired pre-chemotherapy and post-chemotherapy HGSC bulk transcriptomic and single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) datasets to identify chemotherapy-induced tumor-extrinsic factors and their cellular sources in the TME. To test causality, we used chemoresistant, homologous recombination-proficient murine metastatic HGSC models with deficiencies in the interleukin 1 beta (IL1β) pathway (IL1β-interleukin 1 receptor type 1 (IL1R1) axis). Flow cytometry and scRNA-seq of omental tumors were used to define cellular interactions. Contributions of neutrophils and neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) were assessed by antibody-mediated depletion and immunofluorescence. Direct effects of IL1β and NETs on cancer cell chemosensitivity were tested in vitro. Finally, paired pre-chemotherapy and post-chemotherapy omental HGSC specimens from patients were analyzed for neutrophil infiltration and NET formation.In HGSC datasets, post-chemotherapy tumors exhibited increased IL1β expression with myeloid cells identified as the primary source. In chemoresistant murine models, chemotherapy increased neutrophils and NETs in omentum tumors in wild-type mice. These increases were abrogated in IL1β-deficient mice, which showed a shift toward an effector-like CD8+ T-cell state and improved tumor control. Neutrophil depletion in wild-type mice recapitulated the chemosensitive phenotype of IL1β-deficient mice. In vitro, IL1β did not alter cancer cell-intrinsic chemosensitivity, whereas NETs reduced the chemosensitivity of cancer cells. Furthermore, scRNA-seq and flow cytometry revealed that IL1R1 was predominantly expressed by tumor-associated fibroblasts. Consistently, IL1R1-deficient mice exhibited increased chemosensitivity, with decreased neutrophil accumulation and increased IFNγ+TNF+CD8+ T cells. Additionally, we found that chemotherapy upregulated the neutrophil chemoattractant C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 2 (CXCL2), and disruption of the IL1β-IL1R1 axis decreased CXCL2 levels in tumor-associated fibroblasts. Finally, residual human HGSC tumors after chemotherapy showed increased neutrophils and a trend toward increased NETs.We demonstrate that chemotherapy-induced IL1β-dependent neutrophil accumulation drives chemoresistance in HGSC. This study provides experimental evidence that chemotherapy-induced inflammation contributes to chemoresistance and highlights the potential of targeting this pathway to overcome chemoresistance in HGSC.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
This study aims to screen and validate the differentially expressed gene synaptophysin 1 (SYT1), which plays a key regulatory role in prostate cancer, explore its function and potential regulatory mechanisms, and clarify its biological role and molecular mechanisms in the malignant progression of prostate cancer.Differential expression analysis was performed using the GEO database dataset GSE69223, combined with the TIMER and UALCAN databases to validate the expression levels and prognostic value of the candidate gene SYT1. To further ensure the biological plausibility of the results, this study selected cell lines representing different prostate cancer subtypes and disease stages, including the normal epithelial cell line RWPE-1, the adenocarcinoma-like AR⁺ cell line LNCaP, the basal-like/AR⁻ cell line PC3, and the neuroendocrine cell line NCI-H660, and assessed differences in SYT1 expression using qRT-PCR and Western blot analysis. SYT1-overexpressing cell lines were established, and their effects on prostate cancer cell proliferation, migration, and invasion were assessed using EDU, colony formation, scratch, and Transwell assays. Using UbiBrowser, we predicted potential E3 ubiquitin ligases for SYT1 and screened CBL proto-oncogene C (CBLC) as a candidate upstream regulatory factor through differential analysis. We validated the regulatory role of CBLC in SYT1 ubiquitination and degradation via immunoprecipitation experiments and explored its mechanism of action through functional interaction experiments and signalling pathway analysis.SYT1 is significantly downregulated in prostate cancer tissues, and its downregulation is associated with poor prognosis in prostate cancer. Overexpression of SYT1 significantly inhibits the proliferation, migration, and invasion of prostate cancer cells. CBLC is highly expressed in prostate cancer and promotes the ubiquitination and degradation of SYT1. Knocking down CBLC reduces the ubiquitination level of SYT1 and stabilises its protein expression. Overexpression of CBLC partially reverses the antitumour effects mediated by SYT1. Mechanistic studies indicate that SYT1 exerts its antitumour function by inhibiting the TGF-β/SMAD signalling pathway, while CBLC interferes with this pathway by promoting its degradation.Prostate cancer may have SYT1 as a tumor suppressor gene, and the E3 ligase CBLC regulates its ubiquitin-mediated degradation. SYT1 inhibits tumour progression by suppressing the TGF-β/SMAD signalling pathway, while CBLC promotes the malignant development of prostate cancer by negatively regulating SYT1.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized not only by progressive motor deficits but also by non-motor symptoms, such as depression, which often emerge during the prodromal stage and significantly impair quality of life. While Akkermansia muciniphila (AKK) has shown potential in modulating neuroinflammation, its specific role and underlying mechanisms in alleviating PD-associated non-motor symptoms remain unclear. In this study, we investigated the effects of AKK intervention in 16-month-old female A53T α-synuclein (α-syn) transgenic mice. Behavioral assessments revealed that oral administration of AKK significantly ameliorated depression-like behaviors, evidenced by reduced immobility in the forced swim test and increased sucrose preference, without affecting motor function, spatial memory, or gastrointestinal motility. Mechanistically, the intervention exhibited genotype-specific effects: AKK significantly increased plasma 5-HT levels in C57 mice. This increase was associated with an enrichment of Lactobacillus taiwanensis and metabolic pathways favoring peripheral tryptophan conversion. Conversely, in A53T mice, the treatment specifically elevated hippocampal 5-HT levels without altering plasma concentrations. This central effect correlated with distinct microbial remodeling, characterized by the enrichment of butyrate/propionate-producing Lachnospiraceae and the activation of purine degradation. Collectively, these findings provide novel mechanistic insights into the therapeutic potential of AKK for managing non-motor symptoms in PD. While limited to a female cohort, our results suggest that AKK ameliorates depression-like behaviors in PD through sex-specific remodeling of the gut microbiome and serotonergic signaling.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Long-term excessive fluoride intake accumulates in brain tissue, causing neuronal degeneration and nervous system dysfunction. This mechanism is closely related to elevated oxidative stress. α-Synuclein (α-Syn) is expressed in neuronal presynaptic terminals; under environmental toxin exposure or oxidative stress, its expression changes and it misfolds into oligomers and aggregates that are cytotoxic and induce oxidative cellular damage. Meanwhile, the nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2)-NAD(P)H: quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1)/heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) pathway is an important cellular system for regulating oxidative damage, and its core kinase is mainly expressed in brain astrocytes.The aim of this study is to investigate the effects of fluoride exposure on oxidative stress levels in astrocytes and the expression of α-Syn within the Nrf2-NQO1/HO-1 pathway. Primary astrocytes were treated with extracellular α-synuclein pre-formed fibrils (αSP) in conjunction with fluoride exposure. The results demonstrated that fluoride exposure induced reactive activation of primary astrocytes, increased levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS), decreased activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT), and up-regulated the protein expression within the Nrf2-NQO1/HO-1 pathway. αSP caused oxidative stress in primary astrocytes and exacerbated oxidative damage induced by fluoride exposure. These findings are significant for enhancing the understanding of the mechanisms underlying brain injury associated with chronic fluorosis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Synucleinopathies are a group of neurodegenerative disorders characterized by the accumulation of aggregated α-synuclein (α-syn), including Parkinson's disease, Dementia with Lewy Bodies, and Multiple System Atrophy. These diseases are marked by locomotor and non-motor impairments, as well as mitochondrial dysfunction and the loss of dopaminergic (DA) neurons. We have developed several anti-α-syn single-domain antibodies (sdAbs) and demonstrated the diagnostic imaging potential of two of them and the acute therapeutic benefit of one in clearing α-syn in a mouse model. However, whether these sdAbs can suppress α-syn-mediated neuronal loss and locomotor impairment in vivo remains unclear. We evaluated the therapeutic potential of five anti-α-syn sdAbs to clear pathological α-syn in mouse neuronal culture and then demonstrated their in vivo efficacy in a Drosophila model of synucleinopathy. The sdAbs differed in their efficacy to lower levels of phospho-serine 129 α-syn, prevent loss of DA neurons, alleviate mitochondrial dysfunction, improve motor function, and prolong survival in synucleinopathy flies. The most effective sdAb, 2H1, has not been reported before. It binds strongly to the aggregation prone region of α-syn and robustly improves all these disease parameters. Additionally, that sdAb is associated with α-syn in the fly neurons, as shown through proximity dependent turboID biotinylation assays. The sdAb-turboID also biotinylated α-syn-associated proteins involved in synapse/vesicle trafficking pathways, pinpointing the location of their intracellular interaction. Our findings provide an insight into the therapeutic mechanism of action of these sdAbs and strongly support their clinical development.
Post-translational modifications, particularly SUMOylation, plays a crucial role in α-synuclein (α-syn) aggregation, a key pathological feature of Parkinson's disease (PD). Curcumin, a natural polyphenol, has shown neuroprotective potential, but its effects on SUMOylation-related signaling in PD remain unclear.This study aimed to investigate whether curcumin modulates α-syn SUMOylation and to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms in PD model mice.A PD model was established in male C57BL/6 mice via unilateral intrastriatal injection of α-syn preformed fibrils (PFFs). Six months after α-syn PFFs injection, mice were treated intravenously with curcumin (25 mg/kg/day) or vehicle for 1 month. Behavioral tests (open field, rotarod) assessed motor function. Neuropathology was evaluated by immunohistochemistry and western blotting for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), phosphorylated α-syn (p-syn), SUMOylation pathway components (SUMO1, SAE2, UBC9, PIAS1/2), and ubiquitin. Striatal dopamine levels were measured by HPLC.Curcumin treatment ameliorated motor deficits and anxiety-like behaviors in PD mice. It partially preserved dopaminergic neurons and reduced p-syn aggregation in the substantia nigra, accompanied by increased striatal dopamine levels. Mechanistically, curcumin was associated with reduced SUMO1 and increased ubiquitin levels, suggesting modulation of SUMOylation-related signaling. Among SUMOylation enzymes, UBC9 expression was decreased, whereas E1 (SAE2) and E3 (PIAS1/2) components were not substantially affected.Our findings demonstrated that curcumin exerted neuroprotective effects in a PD model by attenuating α-syn pathology. The protective mechanism involves the inhibition of α-syn SUMOylation, primarily through the downregulation of the UBC9 enzyme. This study identifies UBC9-mediated SUMOylation as a potential target for curcumin and highlight a promising strategy for modifying α-syn-associated pathology in PD.Copyright © 2026 Li, Zhu and Zhang.
Differentiating early-stage Parkinson's disease (PD) from the parkinsonian variant of multiple system atrophy (MSA-P) remains a significant challenge due to overlapping clinical phenotypes. This study aimed to identify novel, minimally invasive biomarkers by integrating high-resolution peripheral monocyte transcriptomics with erythrocytic alpha-synuclein (alpha-Syn) distribution patterns.We recruited 149 participants (75 PD and 74 MSA-P) to evaluate clinical features and composite peripheral inflammatory indices. To resolve subtle immune heterogeneity often masked in bulk blood analysis, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was performed on peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from early-stage patients, followed by Quantitative Real-Time PCR (qRT-PCR) validation. Additionally, immunofluorescence was utilized to characterize the subcellular compartmentalization of alpha-Syn forms in erythrocytes.While MSA-P patients exhibited more rapid progression and severe autonomic failure, standard inflammatory markers (e.g., NLR, MLR) failed to distinguish PD from MSA-P in the early clinical stages. However, scRNA-seq revealed distinct monocyte landscapes. Early MSA-P monocytes displayed an aggressive pro-inflammatory profile driven by chemokine upregulation (CXCL10, CXCL5), interferon pathway activation (IFI27). Conversely, early-stage PD monocytes exhibited a profile of precise homeostatic regulation and protective mitochondrial adaptation, characterized by significant GATD3A downregulation verified by qRT-PCR. Furthermore, distinct pathological patterns were identified: oligomeric alpha-Syn was predominantly sequestered on erythrocyte membranes in MSA-P, whereas pS129 alpha-Syn localized primarily to the cytoplasm in PD.This study uncovers a divergent peripheral immune landscape where GATD3A-mediated monocyte homeostasis distinguishes early PD from the chemokine-driven inflammation and intense oxidative stress of MSA-P. Combined with distinct erythrocytic alpha-Syn membrane distribution patterns, these signatures offer a promising multidimensional strategy for the early differential diagnosis of these synucleinopathies.Copyright © 2026 Jiang, Xu, Jin, Liu, Cai, Zhang, Zheng, Wu, Wang, Piao and Feng.
Based on an early-stage Parkinson's disease(PD) rat model, this study employed 16S rRNA sequencing and untargeted metabolomics to investigate the action mechanism of Tianma Gouteng Yin(TGY) in treating early-stage PD. The early-stage PD rat models were established by subcutaneous injection of rotenone for seven days and were randomly divided into a control group, a model group, a positive drug group(levodopa, 50 mg·kg~(-1)), and TGY groups with low, medium, and high doses(9.82, 19.64, and 39.28 g·kg~(-1)), with intragastric administration for seven days during modeling. Behavioral indicators of rats(open field, inclined plane, and pole tests) were determined. The pathological morphology of brain tissue and the expressions of tyrosine hydroxylase(TH) and α-synuclein(α-syn) were detected. The levels of neurotransmitters including dopamine(DA), 5-hydroxytryptamine(5-HT), 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid(DOPAC), levodopa, and homovanillic acid(HVA) were measured. The inflammatory factors including tumor necrosis factor-α(TNF-α), interleukin-6(IL-6), and interleukin-1β(IL-1β) were detected. 16S rRNA sequencing and untargeted metabolomics were conducted on colonic contents to explore the pharmacodynamic effects of TGY and its regulatory mechanisms on gut microbiota and metabolism. RESULTS:: show that TGY can significantly improve motor dysfunction in early-stage PD rats, increase the number of TH-positive cells, inhibit the abnormal aggregation of α-synuclein(α-syn), up-regulate the levels of neurotransmitters, reduce the levels of inflammatory factors in the colon and striatum, thereby exerting a neuroprotective effect. Gut microbiota analysis reveals that TGY can reverse the trends of reduced α-diversity of gut microbiota, increased Firmicutes/Bacteroidetes(F/B) ratio, and increased abundance of pro-inflammatory genera(e.g., Ruminococcus), restore the abundance of beneficial genera(e.g., Bacteroides), and reshape the gut microbiota structure. Metabolomic analysis demonstrates that TGY intervention significantly reverses the differential metabolites in the model group, mainly involving energy and amino acid metabolic pathways such as pyruvate metabolism, β-alanine metabolism, and aminoacyl-tRNA biosynthesis. In conclusion, TGY may exert therapeutic effects on early-stage PD by regulating the axis of microbiota, inflammation, and neuronal injury, with energy and amino acid metabolism as the hub, through these metabolic pathways.
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 20301594
The pathological accumulation of α-synuclein (α-syn) into amyloid fibrils is a key hallmark of Parkinson's disease and related synucleinopathies. Inhibiting the early stages of α-syn aggregation remains a major therapeutic challenge. In this work, we report the fabrication and investigation of five sugar-based nanoparticles (NPs), including glucose, fructose, maltose, sucrose, and trehalose, and their ability to inhibit α-synuclein aggregation. Using a combination of biophysical strategies, comprising thioflavin-T fluorescence, dynamic light scattering, circular dichroism, and confocal microscopy, we illustrate that sugar NPs prevent β-sheet formation and the growth of α-syn fibrils in a concentration-dependent manner. Isothermal titration calorimetry revealed spontaneous, high-affinity interactions between α-syn and sugar NPs, suggesting direct binding to aggregation-prone regions. Importantly, cytotoxicity assays using SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells showed that NP-treated α-syn aggregates exhibited significantly reduced neurotoxicity. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that sugar-derived nanoparticles act as potent inhibitors of α-syn aggregation during the lag phase, thereby stabilizing non-toxic conformers. These results highlight the promise of sugar-based nanostructures as biocompatible and mechanistically active molecules for modulating synucleopathies associated with various neurodegenerative disorders.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Halting the progression of neurodegenerative diseases remains one of the foremost challenges in medicinal chemistry due to the complex biology that drives disease progression. For example, a hallmark of synucleinopathies, such as Parkinson's disease, is the misfolding and aggregation of the protein α-Synuclein (α-Syn), driving the formation of toxic oligomers and fibrils that avoid natural intracellular clearance mechanisms, participate in unusual protein-protein interactions, and ultimately contribute to the death of dopaminergic neurons. The field of targeted protein degradation (TPD) has emerged as an innovative therapeutic route to selectively degrade proteins of interest that leverage natural intracellular protein degradation machinery. First generation TPD therapeutics have traditionally been designed as bifunctional, chimeric compounds in which a short covalent linker tethers a ligand designed to bind target proteins to a ligand that initiates an either proteosome- or lysosome-dependent protein degradation cascade. While initial studies have indicated the promise of these approaches, translation to the clinical setting has been challenging due to difficulties in achieving cellular internalization, long-term stability, and establishment of a generalizable strategy. To overcome these obstacles, this work has focused on adding modularity and dynamic capability to this classical model by leveraging a multivalent macromolecular approach to TPD. Specifically, peptide amphiphiles (PAs) were designed to self-assemble into high-aspect-ratio supramolecular nanofibers and present peptide epitopes on the surface of the fibers to target simultaneous binding of α-Syn and recruitment of enzymes that facilitate entry into the lysosome-dependent chaperone-mediated autophagy protein degradation pathway. In vitro application of these bioactive PA nanofibers has demonstrated the ability to independently internalize in cells and reduce α-Syn protein levels selectively and effectively. While further optimization of this model has the potential to be a viable therapeutic against α-Syn aggregation, the modularity of these supramolecular nanofibers through facile monomer design and incorporation illustrates the potential of establishing a platform technology for targeting a diverse range of pathologic proteins.
This study aimed to investigate how α-synuclein (α-syn) is associated with microglial activation and inflammatory amplification in Parkinson's disease (PD), particularly under pro-inflammatory conditions. In vitro, BV2 microglial cells were stimulated with α-syn preformed fibrils (PFFs) and lipopolysaccharide (LPS). In vivo, a composite PD mouse model was established using 6-OHDA, LPS, and SNCA-overexpressing adeno-associated virus (AAV). Inflammatory changes were assessed by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), and immunofluorescence. Midbrain transcriptomic profiles from model mice were analyzed using Affymetrix microarrays. Bioinformatic analyses included differential expression analysis with the limma package, Gene Ontology (GO), Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis, and Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA). Transcriptomic analysis showed coordinated upregulation and strong positive correlations (R > 0.73) among Snca, Tnfa, and Il1b in PD model mice. Enrichment analyses indicated prominent involvement of inflammation- and immune-related processes, including the JAK-STAT signaling pathway. In vitro, α-syn PFFs induced inflammatory responses in BV2 cells, and these responses were further enhanced by LPS co-stimulation. In vivo, the composite model showed increased α-syn aggregation, enhanced microglial activation, and elevated pro-inflammatory cytokine release under combined pathological conditions. Together, these findings indicate an amplified inflammatory response under combined pathological insults. Our findings suggest that α-syn aggregation is associated with enhanced microglial activation and inflammatory cytokine responses, and may exacerbate neuroinflammatory processes under inflammatory conditions in PD models.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Histidine triad nucleotide-binding protein 1 (HINT1) is a small and evolutionarily conserved HIT family protein with putative tumor suppressor function. It has been implicated in the negative regulation of several transcription factors, but a role for HINT1 in Myocardin-related transcription factor A (MRTF-A)/serum response factor (SRF) signaling has not been described. Here, we examined whether HINT1 functionally interacts with MRTF-A in fibroblasts. HINT1 reduced MRTF-A-dependent reporter activity in a dose-dependent manner, whereas a histidine triad mutant did not. Repression by HINT1 was retained upon deletion of the N-terminal RPEL motifs of MRTF-A, indicating that the effect was not confined to the inhibition of Rho-actin signaling. In parallel, HINT1-WT increased the MRTF-A protein abundance, which required the C-terminal part of MRTF-A. Co-immunoprecipitation experiments revealed the physical association of HINT1 with MRTF-A, whereas the histidine triad mutant or a C-terminally truncated MRTF-A did not show complex formation. Thus, our work suggests that HINT1 acts as a negative regulator of MRTF-A-dependent transcription by binding to the MRTF-A C-terminal part, which appears to require the histidine triad region and is accompanied by a separable increase in MRTF-A abundance.© 2026 the author(s), published by De Gruyter, Berlin/Boston.
Naturally occurring isoforms of the proto-oncogene Erb-B2 Receptor Tyrosine Kinase 2 (ERBB2, HER2) incite unique pathways of tumor progression in mouse models of breast cancer. Although each isoform has been shown to progress to metastasis, the N-terminally truncated isoform (p95) was previously shown to be biased toward early distant dissemination prior to detection. Here we show how HER2 isoforms differentially promote go-or-grow phenotypes through biased utilization of tyrosine autophosphorylation sites in the intracellular tail of HER2. Fluorescently barcoded humanized full-length HER2 (WT), exon-16 splice HER2 isoform (d16), and p95 expressing tumor cell lines were derived from HER2 Crainbow mice, then utilized for a series of functional assays including proliferation, tumor growth rate, cell motility, collective cell migration, cellular morphology, and invasive potential. Quantitative analysis reveals biased tumor cell behaviors across each genotype. WT tumor cells are biased toward proliferation and collective migration, d16 cells are biased toward proliferation and individual motility, and p95 tumor cells are biased toward individual motility and invasion. Single cell analysis reveals a myogenic-like state transition in p95 cells accompanied by an increased nuclear translocation of the Myocardin Related Transcription Factor A (MRTFA). MRTFA knockdown, as well as knockdown of a downstream effector, Transforming growth factor beta 1 induced transcript 1 (TGFB1I1), both inhibit the p95 invasive phenotype. Furthermore, intracellular residue tyrosine 1139 (Y1139) is necessary for MRTFA translocation, and when edited in p95 cells (Y1139F) invasion and motility phenotypes are subsequently lost. Our data illustrate the importance of functionally selective signaling in HER2 and highlight the need for therapeutics that intercept metastasis by targeting HER2 biased signaling.
KMT2A (formerly MLL) gene rearrangements are common and clinically significant in acute leukemias, with outcomes influenced by the fusion partner. Over 100 fusion partners are known, but new ones continue to emerge. This study identified three novel partners-myocardin-related transcription factor B (MRTFB), sorbin and SH3 domain-containing 1 (SORBS1), and scavenger receptor cysteine-rich family member with 5 domains (SSC5D)-in pediatric and adult acute leukemia cases. Three cases were analyzed: a boy with B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia, a girl with acute myelomonocytic leukemia, and a woman with therapy-related acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Diagnostics included cytogenetic analysis, fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), multiplex reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), whole genome sequencing (WGS), and confirmation of breakpoints by Sanger sequencing, with validation at DNA and RNA levels, using patient-specific primers. WGS identified three novel in-frame fusions: KMT2A::MRTFB, KMT2A::SORBS1, and KMT2A::SSC5D, all within the major KMT2A breakpoint region. All patients achieved complete remission with tailored therapy, including chemotherapy and hematopoietic stem cell transplantation where indicated. Follow-up demonstrated durable remissions ranging from 9 to 23 months at the time of reporting. This study expands the catalog of KMT2A fusion partners, highlighting MRTFB, SORBS1, and SSC5D as novel leukemia-associated genes. The findings underscore the value of WGS for comprehensive detection of rare genetic events, enabling improved molecular classification and prognostic assessment in KMT2A-rearranged leukemias.© 2026. Higher Education Press.
Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) are key modulators of tumor growth, the tumor immune context, and treatment response. CAFs take on diverse phenotypes with distinct functions. Myofibroblastic CAFs (myCAFs) regulate extracellular matrix remodeling, while inflammatory CAFs (iCAFs) modulate immune infiltration. Further studies are required to validate biomarkers of CAF phenotypes and to identify means to therapeutically manipulate CAFs.Single-cell RNA sequencing analysis was used to identify markers of CAF phenotypes in CRC. CAF markers were validated and compared to clinical characteristics using patient-derived CAF cultures, fixed human CRC samples, and publicly available RNA sequencing data. Therapeutics were prioritized for their potential to inhibit the myCAF phenotype and nilotinib was selected for validation in patient-derived CAFs. Overall changes in CAFs were evaluated via RNA-seq, and results validated with in vitro experiments. Finally, the feasibility of altering CAF phenotypes to affect treatment response was evaluated in vivo.Here we identify disease-specific markers of colorectal CAFs that are functionally distinct, biologically identifiable, correlate with clinically relevant markers of disease, and can be therapeutically altered in vivo. High stromal expression of myCAF markers correlated with reduced infiltration of CD8+ T lymphocytes into the epithelial compartment compared to tumors with high stromal expression of iCAF markers. Nilotinib treatment inhibited myogenesis regulators myocardin and myocardin-related transcription factor A, which correlated with reduced expression of myCAF markers and extracellular matrix proteins and decreased tumor size in colorectal cancer-bearing mice when combined with anti-PD-1 therapy. We also identified PD-1 as a potential molecule that activates myocardin and myCAF expression, indicating a potential mechanism for increased response to the combination with anti-PD-1 therapy.These results highlight the feasibility of targeting CAF functions to improve therapeutic response, and support the investigation of nilotinib and anti-PD-1 therapy clinically.© 2026. The Author(s).
Parkinson's disease (PD) is often accompanied by symptoms of gastric dysmotility, such as gastroparesis. Gastroparesis not only seriously affects the life quality of PD patients, but also causes fluctuations in drug absorption rate, exacerbating the motor symptoms of PD. The previous studies of our laboratory have shown that PD model rats also exhibit gastroparesis, with increased pro-inflammatory cytokines in the gastric muscularis. The markers of related neurons were abnormal. Additionally, the contractile protein markers, as well as their transcriptional regulators, were reduced in smooth muscle cells (SMCs). Continuous gastric feeding of Qizhiweitong particles (QZWT) for seven days improved gastric motility in PD rats with gastroparesis by suppressing inflammation. However, whether QZWT can restore neurons in the gastric muscularis and the differentiated phenotype of SMCs remains to be further investigated. In this study, we detected expressions of neuronal markers in the gastric muscularis and contractile markers of SMCs by immunofluorescence staining, Western blotting, and real-time quantitative PCR, and observed the ultrastructure of SMCs by transmission electron microscopy techniques, aiming to explore the potential mechanisms underlying the improvement effect of QZWT on gastric dysmotility in PD rats and provide new ideas for the treatment of PD gastroparesis. Our results showed that after QZWT administration, there was no change in neuronal markers tyrosine hydroxylase, choline acetyltransferase, and neuronal nitric oxide synthase in the muscular layer of gastric corpus of the PD gastroparesis rats. However, compared to the PD rats, the protein and mRNA expression levels of myosin heavy chain 11 and myosin light chain 20 were significantly up-regulated in the smooth muscle layer of gastric corpus of PD rats with QZWT treatment. Furthermore, the protein and mRNA expression levels of serum response factor (SRF), which regulates the transcription of SMC contractile protein genes, as well as the mRNA level of the transcription related cofactor myocardin (MYOCD), were significantly up-regulated. In addition, the ultrastructure feature of gastric corpus showed that the morphology of SMCs in the PD rats with QZWT treatment was improved, displaying clear dense patches and dense bodies. The vacuoles in the SMCs disappeared. These results suggest that QZWT treatment up-regulates the expression of SRF and MYOCD, which may be associated with its effect of inhibiting inflammation, and further increases the expression of contractile proteins and restores the morphology of the SMCs, promoting gastric smooth muscle contractions in PD gastroparesis rats, thereby leading to improved gastric motility.
Arteriogenic erectile dysfunction (AED) results from insufficient arterial filling of the corpus cavernosum. Its complex pathophysiology is poorly understood, and current treatments have limitations. While electrical stimulation (ES) has been widely applied clinically for male diseases, its therapeutic targets in AED remain unexplored. This study aimed to investigate the hypothesis that ES ameliorates AED by improving the local immune microenvironment and inhibiting the pathological phenotypic transformation of cavernous smooth muscle cells (SMCs). An AED rat model was established via cuff-induced endothelial injury and a high-fat diet. Erectile function, histology, and molecular mechanisms were assessed using intracavernous pressure measurement, infrared thermography, immunohistochemistry, co-immunoprecipitation, and an in vitro macrophage-corpus cavernosum smooth muscle cells (CCSMCs) co-culture system. Our findings demonstrate that ES treatment significantly improved erectile function in the AED rat model. We discovered that macrophages were polarized towards the anti-inflammatory M2 phenotype following ES treatment. This polarization was directly associated with the upregulation of cylindromatosis (CYLD) and the subsequent inhibition of CX3CL1 release. Concurrently, Th2 cytokines released from these M2 macrophages further enhanced P300/Myocardin (Myocd) acetylation in SMCs, which critically inhibited their transformation towards a synthetic phenotype and prevented adverse vascular remodeling. This study demonstrates that crosstalk between macrophages and SMCs is an essential mechanism in ES-treated AED. We verify that ES-induced M2 macrophage polarization inhibits the detrimental phenotypic switching of CCSMCs, thereby preserving vascular integrity and improving erectile function. This process is pivotally regulated by the upregulation of CYLD and reduction of CX3CL1.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) dedifferentiation, a phenomenon found in virtually all vascular diseases, is characterized by a transcriptional switch from a contractile to a phenotypically modulated state. Myocardin (MYOCD) is a smooth muscle cell-restricted coactivator that is necessary and sufficient for the differentiation of VSMC through the transcriptional activation of SMC-restricted cytoskeletal and contractile genes. Despite 25 yr of research on MYOCD, the reliable expression of this protein continues to be poorly represented and understood. Accordingly, we generated a novel rat model carrying HA-tagged MYOCD to address pervasive disparities in the literature and elucidate MYOCD protein expression in vivo. Western blotting studies documented the highest MYOCD protein expression in aorta, bladder, and uterus, with low or undetectable expression in all other tissues of the rat, including heart. Predictive modeling supports the C-terminus of MYOCD to be most immunoreactive, where the HA tag and one other commercial immunogen reside. Of note, the latter immunogen was used to generate what appears to be the most trustworthy commercial antibody against MYOCD. In vitro transcription/translation and phosphatase treatment of ectopic and endogenous MYOCD protein reveal an intrinsically high molecular weight of MYOCD that has eluded prior reports. Importantly, we present the very first spatial expression profile of MYOCD protein in several mouse and rat tissues under baseline and vascular injury conditions. The results offer the SMC community new resources and insight into the reliable detection of MYOCD protein.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Endogenous MYOCD protein has eluded reliable detection due to pervasive commercial antibody failures, likely due to protein disorder. A CRISPR-generated 3xHA knock-in rat enabled the first in vivo spatial characterization of MYOCD, revealing its presence in SMC-rich tissues and, notably, within the microvasculature of SMC-poor organs. Phosphorylation largely accounts for the high molecular weight of MYOCD. Strikingly, MYOCD is detected in neointimal cells after vascular insult, suggesting persistence or reexpression during vascular remodeling.
In this issue of Developmental Cell, Gajda et al.1 identified the transcriptional partners and downstream targets of myocardin-related transcription factor A (MRTFA), a regulator of actin transcription and cancer cell stiffness. BK potassium channels emerged as pharmacological targets that stiffen cancer cells and enhance anti-tumor immune surveillance during metastasis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Cellular stiffness impacts multiple steps of cancer metastasis, but mechanisms that regulate the stiffness of cancer cells remain poorly understood. Here, we identified potassium efflux and potassium calcium-activated channel subfamily M regulatory beta subunit 1 (KCNMB1), an auxiliary subunit of the large conductance calcium-activated potassium (BK) channels, as regulators of cellular stiffness downstream of myocardin-related transcription factor A (MRTFA). In primary pericytes, KCNMB1 knockdown increased cellular stiffness, which is consistent with the role of potassium efflux in promoting relaxation during excitation-contraction coupling. In a striking contrast, however, KCNMB1 knockdown decreased cancer cells' stiffness. Softer cancer cells were resistant to natural killer (NK) cell mediated cytotoxicity and the low KCNMB1 expression was associated with reduced survival in breast cancer patients. Importantly, pharmacological activation of BK channels reduced metastatic burden in mice and improved lysis of cancer cells by cytotoxic T lymphocytes. These results highlight the ionic regulation of stiffness in cancer cells and point to BK channel agonism as a therapeutic approach.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI-1) is a member of the serine protease inhibitor family critical in regulating fibrinolysis and is associated with diverse pathologies including cardiovascular disease, metabolic disorders, cancer, aging, and many others. Despite its clinical significance and extensive research, there are as of yet still no FDA or EMA-approved therapeutics that specifically target PAI-1. This review examines therapeutic strategies including small molecules, RNA aptamers, monoclonal antibodies, and repurposed pharmaceuticals. Notable challenges in the development of these therapies include the interplay of PAI-1 with tissue specific mediators such as vitronectin and the multi-dimensional, tissue-specific effects of PAI-1 modulation. Promising approaches will require tissue- and temporal expression-based interventions. Further characterization of PAI-1's structural dynamics and its role in various disease processes will shape its potential as a therapeutic target across broad fields in medicine.Thieme. All rights reserved.
Mechanical chest compressions during cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) can produce pulmonary edema, described as cardiopulmonary resuscitation-associated lung edema (CRALE), which has been largely interpreted as a hydrostatic phenomenon. However, whether early molecular changes associated with epithelial injury, coagulation, and inflammation are also present during resuscitation remains uncertain. We hypothesized that bronchoalveolar lavage fluid proteomics would identify early protein signatures of lung injury after CPR.Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) was collected separately from the right and left caudal lung lobes of nine pigs before cardiac arrest and again after ventricular fibrillation, 8 min of untreated arrest, and up to 45 min of CPR. In animals achieving return of spontaneous circulation, post-CPR BALF was obtained immediately after resuscitation; in the remaining animals, sampling was performed at the end of CPR. Proteins were digested, tandem mass tag 18-plex labeled, and analyzed by high-resolution liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. Differentially abundant proteins were defined by fold change >1.5 or <0.67 with P < 0.05. Functional enrichment, histologic assessment, and western blot validation were performed.A total of 1088 proteins were identified in left lung BALF and 1200 in right lung BALF. Comparison of pre- and post-CPR samples identified 74 and 78 differentially abundant proteins in the left and right lungs, respectively, with 28 shared proteins across both lungs. Among the most increased proteins were plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (SERPINE1/PAI-1), apolipoprotein A1, inter-alpha inhibitor family proteins, vitronectin, histones, and advanced glycation end-product receptor (AGER). Functional enrichment showed over-representation of proteins related to complement and coagulation, platelet degranulation, lipid metabolism, and extracellular matrix signaling. Histology showed mild septal thickening, vascular neutrophilic infiltration, interstitial edema, and patchy fibrin deposition, consistent with early pneumocyte injury and mild inflammation. Western blot confirmed increased post-CPR abundance of PAI-1 and apolipoprotein A1.Early after resuscitation, BALF proteomics identified molecular changes characterized by increased antifibrinolytic and complement-related proteins, together with proteins associated with epithelial and endothelial stress. These findings suggest that pulmonary abnormalities after CPR may involve not only hydrostatic edema but also an early biologic response consistent with lung injury, which may contribute to post-cardiac arrest respiratory dysfunction and progression to acute respiratory distress syndrome.© 2026 The Authors.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42530277 is a review article
The outer membranes (OMs) of bacterial pathogens are potent virulence factors and serve as the first line of defense against host immunity. Their striking bilayer asymmetry is essential for function but poses an exceptional challenge for reconstitution in vitro, limiting structure-activity analysis to artificial non-native platforms that can interfere with structure and function. Here, we describe bacterial OM vesicles (OMVs), natively secreted from the cellular OM during bacterial cell growth and development, as an effective vehicle for structure-activity analysis in situ based on solid-state nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR). We show that E. coli OMVs may be engineered to express a range of isotopically labeled target OM proteins, and isolated for solid-state NMR magic angle spinning (MAS) experiments. High resolution NMR spectra are obtained for three bacterial virulence factors: the adhesion invasion locus (Ail) and plasminogen activator protease (Pla) from Yersinia pestis, and the major porin (OmpF) from E. coli. The spectra reflect the native protein structures, report on the specific OMV membrane environment, and may be used to map protein interactions with their human host ligands, specifically the multifunctional glycoprotein Vitronectin (Vn) which binds Ail as part of its serum protection activity. Notably, OMVs support protein functionality, enabling structure and activity to be correlated in situ. OMVs expressing plasmid-encoded Ail recruit human Vn and confer serum protection to wild-type E. coli cells, while OMVs expressing plasmid-encoded Pla support the proteolytic activity of Pla. Taken together, the data establish OMVs as a robust new platform for structure-activity analysis of OM proteins in situ, offer new insights about the complexity of the bacterial OM, and reveal additional functional aspects of OMVs as key ancillary units of bacterial infection.
Macrophages are key drivers of inflammatory and fibrotic diseases, and their activation is shaped by interactions in their tissue microenvironment. However, dissecting the processes that drive immunopathology has proved challenging, as traditional two-dimensional (2D) culture methods fail to capture the complex molecular environment that macrophages inhabit in vivo. To address this, we generated a 3D in vitro model to better mimic the in vivo biophysical microenvironment. We show that the extracellular matrix protein vitronectin promotes a previously unknown profibrotic macrophage phenotype in 3D that is characterized by increased expression of the nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) ectoenzyme CD38, elevated glycolysis and mitochondrial metabolism, and synthesis of the immunomodulatory metabolite itaconate. This is validated in vivo where patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis have elevated vitronectin and MRC1+CD38+ macrophages, while vitronectin-deficient mice were protected from an experimental model of lung injury and fibrosis. Thus, we uncover a previously unidentified link between the composition of tissue niches and macrophage profibrotic function via altered metabolic reprogramming.
This study aimed to investigate associations of plasma and synovial fluid vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A) and neuropilin-1 (NRP1) levels with radiographic severity, pain sensitization-related features, and disease burden in knee osteoarthritis (KOA). Plasma VEGF-A and NRP1 were measured by sandwich ELISA in 120 patients with KOA (Kellgren-Lawrence [KL] grade 2, n = 40; grade 3, n = 52; grade 4, n = 28) and 53 healthy controls, while synovial fluid VEGF-A and NRP1 were assessed in the KOA group. Pain sensitization-related features and disease burden were evaluated using the Central Sensitization Inventory (CSI), pressure pain threshold (PPT), Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC), and visual analog scale (VAS). Plasma VEGF-A and NRP1 levels were elevated in KOA patients versus healthy controls and increased with KL grade, while synovial fluid VEGF-A and NRP1 rose with radiographic severity. Synovial fluid VEGF-A showed stronger discriminatory performance for radiographic severity than synovial fluid NRP1. After the Benjamini-Hochberg FDR correction, plasma and synovial fluid VEGF-A/NRP1 remained associated with VAS, WOMAC, CSI-defined symptom burden, and local PPT in the overall KOA cohort. Multivariable regression adjusted for KL grade, age, sex, BMI, and symptom duration showed that synovial fluid VEGF-A had the strongest independent associations with clinical outcomes. Bootstrap-validated combined ROC models, particularly those incorporating VEGF-A, showed good discriminatory performance for KOA status and severity stratification. These findings suggest that the VEGF-A-NRP1 axis, particularly synovial fluid VEGF-A, may serve as a biomarker framework for KOA severity assessment and symptom-related phenotyping.© 2026 The Author(s). The Kaohsiung Journal of Medical Sciences published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Kaohsiung Medical University.
Aim: Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have shown therapeutic potential in acute lung injury (ALI); however, the key functional components and their roles in regulating pulmonary vascular endothelial permeability remain unclear. This study aimed to identify functional proteins within MSC-derived exosomes (MSC-Exo) and elucidate their roles in regulating pulmonary vascular endothelial permeability to enhance MSC-Exo-based therapy. Methods: Proteomic analysis identified neuropilin-1 (NRP1) as a candidate functional protein in MSC-Exo. Functional assays, including annexin V flow cytometry for apoptosis, colony formation assays for proliferation, and Transwell migration and wound healing assays, were performed to assess these processes in injured pulmonary microvascular endothelial cells (PMVECs). Immunofluorescence and Western blotting were used to evaluate NRP1 localization, p130Cas phosphorylation and matrix metalloproteinases 1 (MMP1)/9 expression. In ALI rat models, histopathology, Evans blue extravasation, and immunohistochemistry were used to assess lung injury and vascular permeability. Results: NRP1-enriched MSC-Exo reduced apoptosis, enhanced colony formation, and promoted migration in PMVECs. Mechanistically, NRP1 modulated the Bcl-2/Bax ratio, inhibited caspase 3/9 activation, and promoted p130Cas phosphorylation with increased MMP1/9 expression. NRP1 also colocalized with PDGFR-α, suggesting a potential role in PDGF-BB signaling. In vivo, NRP1-overexpressing exosome showed superior efficacy in reducing pulmonary edema, vascular leakage, and restoring tight junction proteins, whereas NRP1 depletion impaired these effects. Conclusion: NRP1 in MSC-Exo enhances endothelial repair by promoting proliferation and migration while inhibiting apoptosis. In vivo, NRP1-enriched MSC-Exo improve vascular barrier function and attenuate lung injury, supporting their therapeutic potential in ALI.© The Author(s) 2026.
Macropinocytosis is an actin-driven endocytic process mediating nonspecific uptake of extracellular fluid through membrane ruffling. Neutrophil macropinocytosis has been reported only in limited descriptive studies, and its signaling mechanisms have not been defined. Here, we provide a characterization of macropinocytosis in primary human neutrophils and investigate signaling pathways that contribute to the regulation of this process. Quantitative flow cytometry using a high-molecular-weight fluid-phase tracer showed that the diacylglycerol (DAG) mimetic 4β-phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (4β-PMA) induces macropinocytic activity in primary human neutrophils. Granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF) and hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) also promoted fluid-phase uptake. Inhibition of actin polymerization or macropinocytosis reduced tracer uptake, confirming dependence on actin-driven machinery. Scanning electron microscopy revealed dorsal membrane ruffling and cup-like structures after stimulation. Mechanistically, DAG-dependent activation of protein kinase C beta (PKCβ) acted upstream of NADPH oxidase 2 (NOX2)-derived superoxide anion production, driving membrane remodeling. Collectively, these findings define a DAG-PKCβ-NOX2-superoxide signaling axis, as a key regulator of macropinocytosis in primary human neutrophils and provide the first mechanistic framework for its redox-dependent regulation.
Environmental exposures prior to conception are increasingly recognized as modulators of offspring neurodevelopment; however, their functional impact on specific neural circuits remains poorly understood. In the present study, we investigated whether paternal preconception exposure to the neuroteratogen chlorpyrifos induces protein-level and functional alterations in learning-related brain regions of the offspring. Using a chicken (Gallus gallus domesticus) model, we examined the intermediate medial mesopallium (IMM), hippocampal subregions, and lateral striatum, focusing on protein expression of markers associated with neuroplasticity and cholinergic-mediated activation/translocation of protein kinase C beta (PKCβ), a key regulator of synaptic plasticity. Structural endpoints, including neuronal cell counts and dendritic morphology, were also assessed. A pre-hatch exposure paradigm was included for comparison. Paternal exposure resulted in region- and sex-specific alterations in protein expression, including changes in GDNF, DCX, FOS, and MAP2, predominantly in the lateral striatum and IMM, without corresponding transcriptional changes. Notably, no significant alterations were observed in neuronal cell counts or dendritic structure. In contrast, a robust functional deficit was identified, as paternal exposure completely abolished cholinergic-mediated PKCβ activation/translocation, an effect also observed following pre-hatch exposure. These findings demonstrate that paternal preconception exposure is associated with selective alterations in protein expression and impaired cholinergic-mediated PKCβ signaling within learning-related neural circuits, in the absence of overt structural damage. The dissociation between transcriptional and translational outcomes indicates that regulatory processes acting beyond transcription may contribute to the observed phenotype. Further studies are required to determine the underlying mechanisms and functional consequences of these changes.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Mutations in CTNNB1 are recognized oncogenic drivers of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC); however, the downstream effector molecules and their prognostic significance remain incompletely defined. In this study, we developed a mutant CTNNB1 gene signature (MCGS) to predict CTNNB1 mutation status and to evaluate the prognostic relevance of the constituent genes.Hydrodynamic tail vein injection mouse models of HCC were generated by co-expressing Sleeping Beauty transposon/transposase and mutant CTNNB1 with either AKT-c-Myc or AKT-NRASG12V, followed by RNA sequencing of tumor tissues. Cross-species differential expression analyses were performed by integrating data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and the International Cancer Genome Consortium (ICGC). Machine-learning models were trained to identify MCGS. The prognostic value of signature genes was validated using public transcriptomic datasets and immunohistochemistry on an institutional tissue microarray (TMA) cohort.Mutant CTNNB1 markedly accelerated hepatocarcinogenesis in mice, leading to earlier tumor development and reduced survival. Transcriptomic profiling revealed enrichment of the Hippo and MAPK signaling pathways in CTNNB1-mutant HCCs. We established a 15-gene MCGS using a Categorical Boosting algorithm, which accurately predicted CTNNB1 mutation status (AUC = 0.957 in TCGA; 0.893 in ICGC). Among these genes, metallothionein-3 (MT3) emerged as a prognostic marker, with high expression independently associated with poorer overall survival in public datasets. Consistently, elevated MT3 protein expression on the TMA was also independently associated with worse overall and recurrence-free survival in our institutional cohort.We identified a robust mutant CTNNB1 gene signature capable of accurately predicting CTNNB1 mutation status, and uncovered MT3 as a novel, clinically relevant prognostic biomarker in HCC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Protein tyrosine phosphatases (PTPs) are pivotal in cellular signal transduction. Recent studies have identified protein tyrosine phosphatase, non-receptor type 1 (PTPN1), as a novel immune checkpoint. However, its effects and underlying mechanisms in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remain underexplored. This study aims to elucidate the impact of PTPN1 on the prognosis of HCC patients, the tumor microenvironment (TME), and the biological behavior of HCC cells, with the goal of assessing its clinical potential in HCC.Expression profiles and clinical data for liver cancer patients were obtained from the TCGA database, while single-cell RNA sequencing data were sourced from the GEO database. Corresponding cell function assays were conducted for further validation.PTPN1 mRNA expression was significantly elevated in liver cancer, with higher levels correlating with increased malignancy. Cox analysis found PTPN1 as an influencing factor for prognosis of HCC patients. Gene function and pathway analyses revealed that PTPN1 is implicated in immune-related pathways associated with cancer and hematopoiesis. Notably, PTPN1 expression was found to suppress infiltration of CD8+ T cells. Further investigations using single-cell RNA sequencing and experimental assays demonstrated that silencing PTPN1 in T cell populations enhanced JAK2 and STAT5 expression in CD8+ T cells, as well as their proliferation. Additionally, PTPN1 overexpression in liver cancer cells promoted cell proliferation and invasion through activation of the PI3K-AKT signaling pathway.PTPN1 may inhibit T cell proliferation via the JAK2-STAT5 axis while simultaneously advancing liver cancer progression by activating the PI3K-AKT pathway in cancer cells. These findings suggest that PTPN1 could serve as a promising target for immunotherapy in liver cancer.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Aortic dissection (AD) is a life-threatening vascular emergency characterized by medial degeneration and vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) loss. Although disruption of zinc homeostasis has been reported in patients with AD, how zinc ions and their regulatory proteins influence VSMC survival and disease progression remains unknown. In this study, single-cell analyses revealed that ferroptosis and zinc-related pathways were significantly enriched in VSMCs from patients with AD, showing a strong correlation between the two processes, and zinc levels were markedly elevated in dissected aortas. Furthermore, zinc exposure promoted ferroptosis in cultured primary human aortic smooth muscle cells (HASMCs). By integrating transcriptomic data from AD tissues and VSMC ferroptosis models, metallothionein-3 (MT3), a zinc-binding protein, was identified as a candidate regulator. Functional studies demonstrated that MT3 overexpression markedly attenuated lipid peroxidation, reduced reactive oxygen species accumulation, and protected VSMCs from ferroptotic cell death, whereas MT3 knockdown increased oxidative stress and exacerbated ferroptotic injury. Mechanistically, MT3 directly interacted with glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4), enhanced its protein stability, without altering its transcriptional expression, and promoted glutathione synthesis, thereby activating the glutathione-GPX4 antioxidant defense pathway and mitigating oxidative injury. Notably, restoration of GPX4 effectively rescued the pro-ferroptotic effects of MT3 deficiency on HASMCs. These findings establish a previously unrecognized zinc-MT3-GPX4 axis as a critical determinant of VSMC ferroptosis in AD, linking zinc dysregulation to medial degeneration, and highlighting MT3 as a potential mechanistic candidate target to preserve vascular integrity and limit disease progression. KEY MESSAGES: Impaired zinc homeostasis is implicated in the development of aortic dissection (AD). Zinc-binding protein metallothionein 3 (MT3) mitigates lipid peroxidation and protects vascular smooth muscle cells from ferroptosis. MT3 directly interacts with glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) to prevent its lysosomal degradation, thereby enhancing the glutathione-GPX4 antioxidant defense pathway. MT3 is a potential mechanistic candidate target for preserving vascular integrity and limiting AD progression.© 2026. The Author(s).
Osteomyelitis, often caused by Staphylococcus aureus, presents treatment challenges owing to antibiotic resistance. This study aimed to explore the therapeutic potential of Coicis Semen against osteomyelitis through bioinformatics and experimental validation.An integrated analysis of GEO datasets (GSE16129 and GSE6269) was performed to identify osteomyelitis-related differentially expressed genes. Active compounds of Coicis Semen were screened using HERB and SwissADME, and target genes were predicted using SwissTargetPrediction. Protein-protein interaction networks, molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulations, and in vitro and in vivo experiments were conducted to validate the mechanisms.Eleven bioactive compounds and three key genes, Integrin subunit beta 3 (ITGB3), Myeloperoxidase (MPO), and C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 8 (CXCL8) were identified. Molecular docking confirmed the stable binding of 6-Methoxy-2-benzoxazolinone (MBOA)-MPO and Nonanoic acid-CXCL8. Both compounds inhibited Staphylococcus aureus growth in vitro and reduced bone destruction in a mouse model.Coicis Semen may alleviate osteomyelitis through multi-target immunomodulatory and antibacterial mechanisms, offering potential adjunctive treatment options.© 2026 Li et al.
Orexins, hypothalamic neuropeptides, play a critical role in promoting wakefulness. Suvorexant, a dual orexin receptor antagonist, which is primarily indicated for the treatment of insomnia, also lowers blood glucose. Similarly, in rodent studies, suvorexant has shown beneficial effects on overall glucose homeostasis. Using an animal model of type 2 diabetes (T2D) db/db mice, we hypothesized that suvorexant treatment could improve the ocular complications of T2D.Male db/db mice were treated daily with suvorexant (30 mg/kg, intraperitoneal) or vehicle at Zeitgeber time 0-2 for 12 weeks. The following visual assessments were performed to study the effects of suvorexant: electroretinogram, optomotor response test, and fluorescein angiography. Glucose and insulin tolerance tests were performed to assess the impact on glycemic control. After euthanasia, retinas were isolated, and qPCR and immunofluorescence staining were performed.Suvorexant treatment improved visual acuity and vascular parameters, including reduced avascular and increased vascular areas. There was a decrease in scotopic a-wave and b-wave amplitudes in suvorexant-treated mice, along with increased b-wave implicit time. Suvorexant downregulated mRNA of phospholipase C γ1 and protein kinase C beta, as well as inflammatory markers tumor necrosis factor-α (Tnf-a) and interleukin 1β (Il-1b). Consistent with changes in mRNA levels, suvorexant reduced protein expression of PKCβ and CD45 in immunofluorescence studies of retinal transverse sections. Furthermore, suvorexant-treated mice demonstrated improved glucose tolerance compared with vehicle-treated mice.We found that suvorexant improved visual acuity and retinal vascular insufficiency by reducing retinal inflammation and improving glucose homeostasis in db/db mice. Our findings suggest that orexin receptor inhibition, with suvorexant, may be a potential treatment for ocular complications associated with T2D.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Integrin subunit α5 (ITGA5) has been recognized as a potential diagnostic biomarker across multiple cancer types. ITGA5 is upregulated in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). Oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC), with poor prognosis and high mortality, accounts for two-thirds of HNSCC cases. However, the biological functions and underlying mechanisms of ITGA5 in OSCC progression remain unclear. In the present study, we analyzed the expression, prognostic significance, function, and co-expression genes of ITGA5 in HNSCC using a series of public biological information databases, detected the role of ITGA5 in OSCC progression, and discussed the underlying mechanisms. The results indicate that both the mRNA and protein level of ITGA5 were upregulated and related to the prognosis of HNSCC. Knockdown of ITGA5 inhibited cell proliferation, invasion, migration, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). However, overexpression of snail family transcriptional repressor 2 (SNAI2) reversed the function of ITGA5 in regulating OSCC cell proliferation, invasion, migration, and EMT. In conclusion, our study suggests that ITGA5 is upregulated in HNSCC and associated with poor prognosis; functional studies indicate ITGA5 promotes OSCC proliferation and metastasis via SNAI2, indicating that ITGA5 may be a potential therapeutic target for OSCC.Copyright © 2026 Li, Kong, Zhou, Gu, Sun, Ding, Zou, Zhang and Meng.
Atherosclerosis (AS) is a chronic inflammatory disease and a leading cause of global morbidity and mortality. Dysregulated expression of the long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) H19 has been implicated in AS progression. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain unclear.To determine the role of H19 in AS, the AS mouse model was established using ApoE-/- mice fed a high-fat diet, and the AS cell model was generated by stimulating human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) with oxidized low-density lipoprotein (oxLDL). H19 expression levels were subsequently measured. To investigate the underlying mechanism, H19 siRNA and was transfected into cells, and adeno-associated virus (AAV) expressing short hairpin RNA targeting H19 (AAV-sh-H19) was administered to mice to evaluate the functional impact of H19 on AS.H19 was markedly upregulated in the aortae of AS mice and in the AS cell model, which correlated with enhanced adhesion molecule expression and systemic cytokine release. Mechanistically, H19 functioned as a molecular sponge for microRNA let-7a (miR-let-7a), thereby relieving the repression of its target integrin subunit beta 3 (ITGB3) and amplifying VCAM-1/ICAM-1/N-cadherin-dependent leukocyte recruitment. Luciferase reporter assays confirmed that miR-let-7a is a direct target of H19. Moreover, H19 knockdown increased miR-let-7a levels, thereby inhibiting endothelial cell adhesion and inflammatory responses. Conversely, treatment of mice with AAV-sh-H19 markedly attenuated AS lesion formation.These findings indicate that the H19/miR-let-7a/ITGB3 axis constitutes a targetable inflammatory checkpoint that links endothelial dysfunction to plaque initiation, highlighting H19 inhibition as a potential therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026 Hu, Li, Liu, Chen, Lin, Chaurembo, Li, Huang, Wu, Huang, Xing and Lin.
A strong correlation has been observed between diabetes mellitus (DM) with the pathogenesis of osteoarthritis (OA). This study aimed to elucidate the cellular and molecular mechanisms by which DM exacerbates OA, through multiomics analysis of synovium and cartilage from OA patients with type 2 DM (T2DMOA).Single-cell RNA sequencing, bulk RNA sequencing, and metabolome profiling were performed on knee cartilage and synovium from 21 patients with OA or T2DMOA to investigate the differences in transcriptional landscape, intercellular signalling networks, transcription factor regulatory patterns, and alterations in metabolic pathways.Single-cell profiling of synovium-cartilage tissues revealed distinct pathological alterations in T2DMOA patients compared to non-diabetic OA controls. In the T2DMOA synovium, we observed significantly enhanced differentiation of sublining fibroblasts into lining fibroblasts, along with enriched pathways governing energy metabolism, vasculogenesis, and cell proliferation. For cell-cell communication between cartilage and synovium, hepatocyte growth factor (HGF)-mesenchymal-epithelial transition factor (MET), fibroblast growth factors (FGF) 10-FGF receptor 1 (FGFR1), and nicotinamide phosphoribosyl transferase (NAMPT)-(integrin subunit alpha 5 (ITGA5) + integrin subunit beta 1 (ITGB1)) from synoviocytes to chondrocytes, as well as angiopoietin-like protein 2 (ANGPTL2)-toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) and ANGPTL2-(ITGA5 + IGTB1) from chondrocytes to synoviocytes, showed a notable increase in T2DMOA patients. Conversely, T2DMOA cartilage exhibited a pronounced suppression of metabolic activity, particularly in amino acid transport and glycan biosynthesis. Additionally, transcription factors of synoviocytes and chondrocytes were clustered into five and four major modules, respectively, with various functions.Our findings define a diabetes-specific OA phenotype, characterized by aberrant synovial fibroblast activation, dysregulated synovium-cartilage crosstalk, and impaired cartilage metabolism. This integrated view establishes T2DMOA as a unique metabolic-subtype of OA, driven by disrupted intercellular communication and metabolic reprogramming.© 2026 Wen et al.
Intravenous administration of clazosentan, a selective endothelin receptor subtype A antagonist, has been used as an anti-vasospastic agent. This study aimed to investigate whether intrathecal administration of clazosentan prevents neuroinflammation and affects lymphatic clearance of hemoglobin in a mouse model of acute subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH).Male C57BL/6 mice (n=109) underwent prechiasmatic cisternal injection models of SAH or sham models. From 30 minutes post-modeling, mice randomly received a continuous intracerebroventricular infusion of saline or clazosentan (1, 0.2, and 0.04 μg in 192 μL of saline; defined as 50%, 10%, and 2% of the clinically achievable blood concentration, respectively) at a rate of 8 μL/h for 24 hours. The intervention effects were assessed by neurobehavioral testing, SAH grading, and immunohistochemical staining at 24 and 48 hours, and Western blotting at 24 hours post-modeling.Clazosentan treatment did not influence SAH grading but showed a dose-dependent trend toward improved survival in SAH mice. A comparison of saline treatment and 50% clazosentan treatment revealed that clazosentan significantly suppressed post-SAH neurological deterioration, hemoglobin infiltration into the brain, and induction of ionized calcium-binding adapter molecule 1 and tenascin-C in the brain, and significantly upregulated vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-3 in the brain without affecting vascular endothelial growth factor-C levels. When comparing the effects of different clazosentan doses, an inhibitory effect on neuroinflammation was observed up to 10% clazosentan. At 48 hours post-modeling, clazosentan administration dose-dependently inhibited neurological deterioration, hemoglobin infiltration into the brain and activation of perivascular macrophages and microglia, and increased hemoglobin deposition in the deep cervical lymph nodes of SAH mice without intracranial lymphatic vessel proliferation.This study first showed that intrathecal administration of clazosentan can suppress early brain injury in terms of neuroinflammation at cerebrospinal fluid concentrations one-tenth of the clinically achievable blood concentrations, associated with enhanced lymphatic drainage of hemoglobin.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42553521 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42552801 is a review article
Meningeal (dural) lymphatics are essential for cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) clearance to cervical lymph nodes, yet the precise pathway is incompletely understood. Using a multifaceted approach in mice, we examined tracer dynamics and the CSF outflow pathway from the subarachnoid space (SAS) to the nasal mucosa and identified a discrete arachnoid region surrounding the olfactory bulbs with abundant fenestrations. Similar arachnoid fenestrations were found in cynomolgus monkeys. Fluorescent tracers in the SAS passed through arachnoid fenestrations into dural lymphatics, which traversed the cribriform plate foramina, joined the nasal lymphatics, and drained to the cervical lymph nodes. In aged mice, the known reduction in CSF outflow was accompanied by lymphatic atrophy in the olfactory dura and nasal mucosa and by fewer arachnoid fenestrations and smaller cribriform plate foramina. Importantly, the lymphatics and CSF clearance were restored to normal by intranasal delivery of vascular endothelial growth factor-C (VEGF-C), thereby documenting the reversibility of the aging-related impairment in CSF clearance.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Lymph node metastasis is a critical determinant of breast cancer prognosis, yet the specific microenvironmental cytokines driving this process remain elusive. This study aims to identify key prognostic cytokines linking nodal metastasis to tumor microenvironment (TME) remodeling and to evaluate their clinical utility.A predefined panel of 176 microenvironmental genes was evaluated using differential expression analysis and the Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO) algorithm on the TCGA-BRCA cohort to identify optimal predictors of nodal metastasis. Prognostic value was assessed via Kaplan-Meier, subgroup, and multivariate Cox regression analyses, and validated across five independent GEO datasets. Immune infiltration and therapeutic potential were evaluated using Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA), CIBERSORT deconvolution, pharmacogenomic screening, and molecular docking simulations.Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor C (VEGFC) emerged as the top biomarker significantly upregulated in node-positive tumors. Multivariate analysis confirmed that VEGFC acts as a robust, independent predictor of poor relapse-free survival (RFS). Notably, subgroup analyses revealed this prognostic penalty is exceptionally pronounced in hormone receptor-positive Luminal A and B subtypes. Mechanistically, elevated VEGFC is strongly associated with an immunosuppressive "cold" TME, characterized by reduced cytotoxic CD8+ T-cell infiltration and enriched M2-macrophage polarization across multiple algorithms. Furthermore, pharmacogenomic analyses and docking simulations indicated potential sensitivity to PI3K/AKT inhibitors in VEGFC-high tumors.VEGFC is a robust, independent precision biomarker specifically indicating poor prognosis in Luminal breast cancers. It is significantly associated with an immune-excluded TME, suggesting that targeting the VEGFC axis may offer a novel strategy to reverse immune evasion.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Tech Science Press.
Leptin, Galectin-1 and Galectin-3 are essential players in tumorigenesis, angiogenesis, and metastasis, but their lymphangiogenic role is unclear. Here, the associations of leptin, Galectin-1 and Galectin-3 with markers of lymphangiogenesis were evaluated in colorectal cancer (CRC).A total of 120 patients with CRC were included in the study. The expressions of leptin, Galectin-1, Galectin-3, and vascular endothelial growth factor- C (VEGF-C) were analyzed in CRC tissue and compared with lymphatic vessel density (LVD). Also, the concentrations of Galectin-1 and Galectin-3 were determined in the sera of CRC patients (n=38).LVD positively correlated with the intensity of leptin or Galectin-1 expression (as defined by intensity score, IS) in tissues. Although there was no significant association between tissue expression of Galectin-3 and LVD, serum Galectin-3 concentrations were markedly decreased in patients with high LVD. The positive correlation was observed between intensity of VEGF-C and leptin expressions. No significant relationship was found between VEGF-C and Galectin-1 expression, while the intensity of VEGF-C expression positively correlated with Galectin-3 expression in tumor tissue. Further, high leptin expression, determined by a total score (sum of percentage score (PS) and IS) > 4, was related to regional lymph node metastasis and TNM stages, indicating a more aggressive CRC phenotype.The results suggest that leptin and Galectin-1 are involved in the formation of new lymphatic vessels in tumor, either dependently or independently of VEGF-C. It seems that high leptin expression reflects regional metastases and progression of CRC.© Acta Gastro-Enterologica Belgica.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42377283 is a review article
The expanding clinical use of Antibody-Drug Conjugates (ADCs) necessitates a clearer understanding of their real-world toxicity profiles across diverse clinical settings. This retrospective pharmacovigilance study analyzed 19,697 adverse event (AE) reports for seven approved ADCs from the FDA Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) database (Q1 2004 to Q1 2025). Using disproportionality analysis validated by multivariable logistic regression, we identified safety signals for both monotherapy and combination regimens. The analysis revealed that toxicity profiles are strongly driven by an ADC's molecular structure and treatment setting. Target-specific 'on-target, off-tumor' effects were prominent, linking Nectin cell adhesion molecule 4 (NECTIN-4) targeting to skin reactions, Trophoblast cell-surface antigen 2 (TROP2) to gastrointestinal toxicities, and both folate receptor α (FRα) and tissue factor (TF) to ocular disorders. Furthermore, payload and linker types drove distinct toxicities; topoisomerase I inhibitors were associated with increased respiratory toxicity and mortality, while non-cleavable linkers conferred a significantly stronger risk of hepatobiliary toxicity. Combination regimens not only amplified specific risks, such as endocrine disorders with immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs), but also fundamentally reshaped toxicity kinetics, accelerating AE onset with ICIs while significantly delaying it with other combinations. This real-world analysis confirms that ADC toxicities are highly specific to their molecular design and clinical context, highlighting that understanding these complex structural and kinetic interplays is essential for optimizing safety management in clinical practice.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42504956 is a review article
Squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) of the bladder is an aggressive histologic subtype with distinct clinical behavior and limited treatment options after platinum-based chemotherapy. This study aimed to evaluate potential therapeutic targets in bladder SCC.A retrospective cohort of 790 patients who underwent radical cystectomy for bladder cancer between 2011 and 2021 was screened to identify cases with histologically confirmed SCC. All SCC cases in the pathology department from 2003 to 2011 were also reviewed. Clinical and pathological data from 54 patients were analyzed. A tissue microarray (TMA) was constructed, and immunohistochemical (IHC) analyses were performed for programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1), nectin cell adhesion molecule 4 (NECTIN4), trophoblast cell-surface antigen 2 (TROP2), human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2), carcinoembryonic antigen-related cell adhesion molecule 5 (CEACAM5), and CD8+ T cells. Expression levels were assessed for prognostic relevance using the log-rank test and Kaplan-Meier survival analysis.A TMA comprising samples from 42 of 54 patients (22 pure SCC, 20 partial SCC) was successfully constructed. NECTIN4 (positive vs. negative) expression, PD-L1 (combined positive score ≥ 10 vs. <10) expression, and CD8+ density (high vs. low) showed a nearly equal distribution across the cohort. HER2 expression was detected in 14.3% of cases, CEACAM5 in 21.4%, and TROP2 in 83.3% of tumors. High NECTIN4 expression, increased CD8+ density, and administration of adjuvant chemotherapy were associated with improved overall survival.Several actionable targets were identified in bladder SCC, supporting further exploration of targeted therapies.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Tech Science Press.
Acetaminophen (APAP)-induced acute liver injury (AILI) is a prevalent clinical liver condition caused mostly by oxidative stress and mitochondrial damage. Dental pulp stem cells (DPSCs) possess antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and immunomodulatory capabilities, demonstrating significant potential in liver diseases. However, during in vitro culture, they are typically maintained under normoxic conditions (21% O2), which is very different from the hypoxic oxygen level that is found in vivo. It remains unclear whether hypoxic-conditioned dental pulp stem cells (Hyp-DPSCs) exhibit superior therapeutic effects compared to normoxic-conditioned dental pulp stem cells (Nor-DPSCs). This study demonstrated that 24-h exposure to 1% O2 significantly enhanced HIF1A/HIF-1α expression in DPSCs. It promoted mitophagy through the MYC-HIF1A-BNIP3 pathway, enhancing mitochondrial shape and function while reducing oxidative stress in DPSCs. Furthermore, in vitro and in vivo experiments demonstrated that Hyp-DPSCs were far more potent than Nor-DPSCs in boosting the expression of hepatic antioxidant factors and enhancing macroautophagy/autophagy to reduce AILI. These findings revealed that hypoxia activated mitophagy in DPSCs, enhancing their therapeutic efficacy against AILI and providing a novel strategy for stem cell-based AILI treatment.Abbreviations: AILI: acetaminophen-induced acute liver injury; ANOVA: analysis of variance; APAP: acetaminophen; BAX: BCL2 associated X, apoptosis regulator; BCL2: BCL2 apoptosis regulator; BNIP3: BCL2 interacting protein 3; BNIP3L: BCL2 interacting protein 3 like; CASP3: caspase 3; CAT: catalase; CCK-8: cell counting kit-8; CM: conditioned medium; COX4I1: cytochrome c oxidase subunit 4I1; CPT1A: carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1A; CQ: chloroquine; DPSCs: dental pulp stem cells; ELISA: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; GO: Gene Ontology; GOT1/AST: glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase 1; GPT/ALT: glutamic - pyruvic transaminase; GPX4: glutathione peroxidase 4; GSH: glutathione; Hyp-DPSCs: hypoxic-conditioned dental pulp stem cells; H&E: hematoxylin and eosin; HIF1A/HIF-1α: hypoxia inducible factor 1 subunit alpha; HMOX1/HO-1: heme oxygenase 1; HUVECs: human umbilical vein endothelial cells; IF: immunofluorescence; IHC: immunohistochemistry; IL1B/IL-1β: interleukin 1 beta; IL6: interleukin 6; i.p.: intraperitoneally; i.v.: intravenous injection; KEGG: Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MSCs: mesenchymal stem cells; MYC: MYC proto-oncogene, bHLH transcription factor; NAC: N-acetylcysteine; NAPQI: N-acetyl-p-benzoquinone imine; NFE2L2/NRF2: NFE2 like bZIP transcription factor 2; Nor-DPSCs: normoxic-conditioned dental pulp stem cells; PRKN/parkin: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; PLIN2: perilipin 2; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; PPARA/PPARα: peroxisome proliferator activated receptor alpha; PPARG/PPARγ: peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma; ROS: reactive oxygen species; SEM: standard error of the mean; SOD1: superoxide dismutase 1; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TNF/TNF-α: tumor necrosis factor; TOMM20: translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20; VDAC1: voltage dependent anion channel 1; WB: western blot.
Backgrounds: Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is highly aggressive, insensitive to radiotherapy, and exhibits increased cancer stem cell (CSC) properties, contributing to poor patient outcomes. B-cell lymphoma 2 (BCL2) associated transcription factor 1 (BCLAF1) is an oncogene in certain cancers, but its role in TNBC is unclear. This study investigated BCLAF1's involvement in radioresistance and CSC activity in TNBC. Methods: BCLAF1 expression and clinical significance were analyzed using The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) breast cancer dataset. Radioresistant MDA-MB-231 cells were used to examine BCLAF1's function. Proto-oncogene SRC (SRC) overexpression, BCLAF1 knockdown, dasatinib treatment, and hypoxia inducible factor 1 subunit α (HIF-1α) inhibition were employed to elucidate regulatory mechanisms. CSC activity was assessed using tumorsphere formation assays. Results: Elevated BCLAF1 mRNA levels were associated with advanced pathological and T stages (analysis of variance [ANOVA], p = 1.4 × 10-3) and poorer overall survival by Kaplan-Meier analysis (p = 0.021). BCLAF1 expression was positively correlated with SRC signaling pathway-associated genes, including Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog (KRAS), GTPase-activating protein-binding protein 1 (G3BP1), and phosphoinositide-3-kinase regulatory subunit 1 (PIK3R1). Radioresistant cells exhibited higher BCLAF1 expression. SRC overexpression reduced radiosensitivity, while increasing BCLAF1 levels. BCLAF1 knockdown suppressed tumorsphere formation. Dasatinib decreased BCLAF1, HIF-1α, and stemness proteins, including octamer-binding transcription factor 4 (OCT-4), Notch intracellular domain (NICD), and cellular myelocytomatosis oncogene (c-Myc). BCLAF1 knockdown diminished nuclear HIF-1α, and HIF-1α inhibition abrogated BCLAF1-induced tumorsphere formation. Conclusions: BCLAF1 enhances radioresistance and CSC properties in TNBC via SRC-HIF-1α signaling, suggesting that BCLAF1 is a potential therapeutic target to overcome radioresistance in TNBC.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Tech Science Press.
Viruses, lacking an intrinsic metabolic network, exploit host cell metabolism in order to hijack resources for their own replication. However, the regulatory relationship between foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV) and energy metabolism remains incompletely elucidated. Here, metabolomic analysis was performed on PK-15 cells and tonsils infected with FMDV. Metabolites involved in glycolysis were significantly upregulated, whereas metabolites associated with the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle were markedly downregulated in vivo and in vitro, which indicated that FMDV induced reprogramming of host cell energy metabolism, shifting it from oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) to glycolysis. Furthermore, FMDV infection promoted glucose uptake and its subsequent utilization in FMDV-infected PK-15 cells, facilitating viral replication. Mechanistically, on the one hand, FMDV infection activated the AKT-MTOR-dependent macroautophagy/autophagy pathway to suppress the expression of OTUD4 (OTU deubiquitinase 4), upregulating HK2 (hexokinase 2) to facilitate glycolysis. On the other hand, FMDV infection decreased the level of mitochondrial SIRT3 (sirtuin 3) through PINK1-PRKN-dependent mitophagy, leading to the increase of HIF1A (hypoxia inducible factor 1 subunit alpha), HK2, phosphofructokinase 1 (PFK1), and PKM/PKM2 (pyruvate kinases M1/2), promoting glycolysis. Overall, this study elucidates how FMDV modulates glycolysis through two different autophagic pathways, which would contribute to our understanding of how the autophagy-glycolysis axis regulates viral replication, providing new avenues for developing antiviral strategies targeting metabolism.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; ACTB: actin beta; ATG: autophagy related; CQ: chloroquine; dpi: days post-infection; EV71: enterovirus 71; FMDV: foot-and-mouth disease virus; HK2: hexokinase 2; HIF1A: hypoxia inducible factor 1 subunit alpha; hpt: hours post-transfection; MOI: multiplicity of infection; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; OTUD4: OTU deubiquitinase 4; OXPHOS: oxidative phosphorylation; PFK1: phosphofructokinase 1; PFKFB3: 6-phosphofructo-2-kinase/fructose-2,6-bisphosphatase 3; PKM/PKM2: pyruvate kinase M1/2; SIRT3: sirtuin 3; siRNA: small interfering RNA; TCID50: 50% tissue culture infectious doses; TCA: tricarboxylic acid; TUNEL: terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling; WT: wild type.
Ophiopogon japonicus (Thunb.) Ker Gawl. is a traditional Chinese medicinal herb commonly used to "nourish yin and moisten the lung", and has long been applied for the prevention and treatment of lung-related disorders in classical medical texts such as the Treatise on Typhoid Fever and Item Differentiation of Warm Febrile Diseases. Pulmonary fibrosis (PF) is a chronic progressive fibrotic lung disease with limited therapeutic options. Although Ophiopogon japonicus has shown anti-inflammatory and anti-fibrotic potential in respiratory diseases, its pharmacological mechanisms against PF remain unclear.This study aimed to evaluate the protective effects of Ophiopogon japonicus aqueous decoction against PF and to investigate whether its anti-fibrotic effects are associated with the modulation of hypoxia-inducible factor 1 subunit α (HIF1A)/tubulin beta 3 class III (TUBB3) axis-associated M2 macrophage polarization and arginine metabolic alterations.Potential bioactive constituents of Ophiopogon japonicus aqueous decoction were first screened using UHPLC-Q Exactive Orbitrap-HRMS combined with Lipinski's rule of five. A bleomycin (BLM)-induced mouse model of PF was then established, and Ophiopogon japonicus aqueous decoction was administered as an intervention. Body weight, pulmonary function testing (PFT), micro-CT, histopathology, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), and immunohistochemistry (IHC) were used to evaluate its pharmacodynamic effects. Network pharmacology, Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) mining, weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), machine learning (ML), transcriptomics, metabolomics, and single-cell transcriptomics combined with virtual knockout analysis were further integrated to identify candidate targets, related pathways, and metabolic alterations. Finally, flow cytometry, western blotting, immunofluorescence (IF) co-staining, AlphaFold3, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics simulation were performed to further assess phenotypic changes, predicted molecular associations, and candidate active constituents.Ophiopogon japonicus aqueous decoction significantly alleviated BLM-induced PF, and 16 potential bioactive constituents were identified. In vivo experiments showed that Ophiopogon japonicus aqueous decoction attenuated body weight loss, pulmonary dysfunction, micro-CT abnormalities, histopathological injury, collagen deposition, inflammatory responses, and fibrosis scores in PF mice. Bioinformatic analysis identified HIF1A as a candidate hub target and TUBB3 as a key feature gene. Further multi-omics analysis showed that the HIF1A/TUBB3 axis-associated module was closely associated with M2 macrophage polarization and arginine metabolic dysregulation; combined with virtual knockout analysis, these results further suggested that HIF1A may be located upstream of TUBB3 at the predicted regulatory-network level. Experimental analyses showed that Ophiopogon japonicus aqueous decoction intervention was associated with decreased HIF-1α and TUBB3 protein expression, reduced M2 macrophage polarization, and partial correction of arginine metabolic dysregulation. Structural simulation suggested that Ophiopogonin D could stably bind to HIF-1α and TUBB3.This study demonstrated that Ophiopogon japonicus aqueous decoction alleviates BLM-induced PF. Integrated multi-omics analysis and experimental evidence suggested that its anti-fibrotic effects may be associated with modulation of HIF1A/TUBB3 axis-associated M2 macrophage polarization and arginine metabolic dysregulation. Ophiopogonin D may be one of the candidate active constituents associated with these protective effects.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This study investigated the impact of a high-carbohydrate diet (HC: 25% carbohydrate) on skin wound healing in turbot vs. a control diet (CC: 16% carbohydrate). Following 10 weeks of triple replicates of fish (n=40), standardized 8 mm skin wounds were created and healing assessed macroscopically and molecularly at baseline, 1, 3, and 7 days post-wounding (dpw). While growth performance remained unaffected, HC-fed fish exhibited persistent hyperglycemia and hyperinsulinemia, indicative of systemic insulin resistance. Macroscopic analysis showed significantly impaired wound contraction in the HC group at 3 and 7 dpw compared to CC controls. Histological assessment revealed defective re-epithelialization characterized by aberrant keratinocyte migration, suppressed provisional matrix formation, ill-defined epidermal stratification, and persistent goblet cell aggregation in HC fish. Molecular analyses demonstrated HC-mediated suppression of re-epithelialization markers (suppressed MMP9, EGF, FGF2, and KRT2 gene expression; reduced MMP9 protein distribution), dysregulated inflammation (reduced myeloperoxidase and NAG activity; lower IL1B, IL6, IL8, TGFB1, and TNF expression; elevated IL10 expression), and impaired tissue formation and remodeling (downregulated FN1, VEGF, CCN1, LAMB2, and COL1A mRNA; reduced collagen deposition; attenuated CD31-based angiogenesis). Importantly, HC feeding promoted skin advanced glycation end-products (AGEs) accumulation, which was accompanied by reduced mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase (MTOR) phosphorylation, decreased hypoxia inducible factor 1 subunit alpha (HIF1A) protein levels, and blunted post-wounding induction of glycolytic genes, including PFK, HK2, and PK. Collectively, these findings indicate that HC feeding compromises multiple phases of skin wound healing in turbot and suggest that AGE-associated suppression of MTOR-HIF1A-mediated glycolytic adaptation is an important metabolic mechanism associated with delayed healing.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Although endurance training is known to induce systemic adaptations involving inflammatory and hypoxia-related signaling, tissue-specific protein responses remain incompletely understood. Therefore, this study examined the effects of endurance training on inflammatory cytokines and hypoxia markers across multiple organs.Male Wistar rats performed treadmill running (30-60 min/day, 5 days/week) for 8 weeks. Protein expression of interleukin 6 (IL-6), transmembrane tumor necrosis factor-alpha (tmTNF-α), soluble TNF-α (sTNF-α), hypoxia-inducible factor 1 subunit alpha (HIF-1α), and lysine demethylase 6A (KDM6A) was assessed in the lungs, liver, skeletal muscle, heart, and brain.Endurance training increased IL-6 protein levels in the lungs, liver, skeletal muscle, and heart, but decreased them in the brain. It also increased tmTNF-α protein levels in the lungs, liver, skeletal muscle, and heart, but decreased them in the brain; it did not affect sTNF-α protein levels in any organ. Hypoxia markers responded to endurance training in an organ-specific manner: HIF-1α and KDM6A protein levels increased in the lungs, liver, and heart, whereas KDM6A protein levels increased while HIF-1α protein levels were unchanged or decreased in the brain and skeletal muscles, respectively.Endurance training induces organ-specific regulation of inflammatory and hypoxia-related proteins. The differential responses of TNF-α isoforms suggest distinct roles of local inflammatory signaling in exercise-induced adaptations. Of particular interest is the observed anti-inflammatory effect of endurance training in the brain, indicating distinct regulatory mechanisms within the CNS.Copyright © 2026 Galganski, Zoladz and Jarmuszkiewicz.
Machine learning (ML) has the potential to revolutionize antibody design and selection, but its success depends on access to well-curated datasets of antibody-antigen interactions. We developed a synthetic Fab yeast display library optimized for seamless integration with ML processes, focusing on sequence diversity within the complementary determining region heavy chain CDRH3 loop. The library incorporates key sequence features derived from human B cell repertoires captured in a compact antigen recognition module (ARM) format. Built with the VH1-69 heavy chain and four light chains, the library was evaluated against ten human and murine cell surface antigens, including programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1), T cell immunoreceptor with immunoglobulin and immunoreceptor tyrosine-based inhibitory motif domains (TIGIT), and roundabout guidance receptor 1 (ROBO1). This approach yielded hundreds of antibodies with robust biophysical properties, some of which were validated by flow cytometry and immunohistochemistry. Furthermore, ML analysis identified additional antibodies for ROBO2 and PD-L2 from the aggregate sequencing data. The publicly available dataset establishes an ML-compatible framework designed to accelerate and streamline antibody discovery and development. A record of this paper's transparent peer review process is included in the supplemental information.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
BACKGROUNDCurrent diagnosis and surveillance of bladder cancer rely on cystoscopy, which is invasive and user dependent. The urine mRNA panel, uRNAp, measures expression of 3 genes for identification of bladder cancer. Here we report validation of uRNAp for patients undergoing initial workup for suspected bladder cancer and surveillance for bladder cancer.METHODSUrine specimens were prospectively collected prior to cystoscopy at 2 health care systems from patients without (detection cohort) or with (surveillance cohort) a history of bladder cancer. RNA was isolated from urine sediment for RT-qPCR to determine roundabout guidance receptor 1, corticotropin releasing hormone, and insulin-like growth factor 2 expression and calculate the uRNAp bladder cancer probability score.RESULTSIn the detection cohort, 547 samples were collected from 529 patients. There were 123 new diagnoses of bladder cancer in the detection cohort, and uRNAp demonstrated 98% sensitivity and 51% specificity for identification of bladder cancer. In the surveillance cohort, 1,543 samples were collected from 447 patients with 286 recurrences. uRNAp demonstrated 94% overall sensitivity with 43% specificity and 99% sensitivity for high-grade recurrence. The receiver operating characteristic area under the curve was 0.92 in the detection and 0.81 in the surveillance cohort. uRNAp scores significantly increased with tumor size and grade.CONCLUSIONProspective validation of uRNAp demonstrated a strong potential clinical utility as a noninvasive adjunct to cystoscopy for management of bladder cancer. uRNAp may be a useful triage tool to defer or expedite cystoscopy for patients undergoing detection or surveillance of bladder cancer.FUNDINGDepartment of Veterans Affairs BLR&D Merit Review I01 BX004962 to JCL.
Temporomandibular joint osteoarthritis (TMJOA), a prevalent subtype of temporomandibular disorders, is characterized by progressive cartilage degradation and subchondral bone destruction. Despite advancements in understanding TMJOA pathogenesis, the molecular mechanisms underlying its progression remain unclear. In this study, elevated Slit guidance ligand 2 (SLIT2) expression was observed in TMJ tissues of unilateral anterior crossbite-induced TMJOA mice and synovial fluid from patients with TMJOA, correlating with disease severity. Furthermore, SLIT2 overexpression in transgenic mice intensified TMJOA progression, whereas heterozygous deletion of roundabout guidance receptor 1/2 (ROBO1/2) alleviated cartilage and bone damage. Mechanistically, SLIT2 promoted ROBO1-LRP6 complex formation, facilitating LRP6 phosphorylation and β-catenin nuclear translocation. This cascade upregulated matrix-degrading enzymes while downregulating cartilage structural proteins, exacerbating cartilage destruction and subchondral bone loss. These findings suggest that the SLIT2/ROBO1/LRP6 axis may represent a potential therapeutic target for TMJOA and provide mechanistic insights into disease progression.
The Golgi complex undergoes dynamic remodeling during the cell cycle, as ribbon unlinking in G2 is required for proper mitotic progression. Failure to fragment the ribbon leads to G2 arrest, whereas forced mitotic entry with intact ribbons results in multipolar spindle formation. Phosphorylation of the Golgi matrix protein GRASP65 at serine 277 (S277) in rat (S274 in human) by JNK2 is essential for ribbon unlinking, but its upstream regulation has remained unclear. Here, we generated and validated a phospho-specific antibody recognizing human GRASP65 phosphorylated at S274, enabling accurate detection of this modification. Using this tool, we identify protein kinase D2 (PKD2) as a critical upstream regulator required for GRASP65 phosphorylation and Golgi unlinking. GRASP65-S274 phosphorylation increases during G2 and is markedly reduced upon PKD2 inhibition or depletion, resulting in decreased Golgi unlinking and delayed G2/M transition. Conversely, PKD2-activating stimuli, including phorbol esters and nocodazole, enhance GRASP65 phosphorylation in a PKD2-dependent manner. These findings define PKD2 as a key regulator of the JNK2-GRASP65 signaling axis controlling Golgi disassembly at the G2/M transition. Moreover, the phospho-specific GRASP65 antibody described here provides a valuable tool to dissect upstream signaling mechanisms and to identify the initial triggers driving Golgi unlinking at G2 entry.
Small molecule anti-cancer drugs can cause adverse effects; most commonly low blood cell counts. Protein kinase D2 (PKD2) is highly expressed in neutrophils, and this study investigated the role of PKD2 inhibition on the survival of human neutrophils using small molecule compounds.The kinase inhibition profiles of two Polo like kinase 1 (PLK1) inhibitors, TAK-960 derivative and Compound A were evaluated using 265 kinase enzyme assays. HL60 cells were differentiated into neutrophil-like cells, followed by siRNA-mediated knockdown of PKD2, and cell viability was assessed. Compounds were tested for their effects on cell viability in differentiated HL60 cells and human neutrophils isolated from healthy donors. Furthermore, correlation between PKD2 inhibition and peripheral white blood cell counts was assessed for 23 difluoropyrimido-diazepinone compounds in nude mice bearing HT-29 human colon cancer cell xenografts.PKD2 knockdown resulted in reduced cell viability in differentiated HL60 cells. Compound A, which selectively inhibits PKD2, significantly reduced the viability of differentiated HL60 cells and human neutrophils, to a greater extent than TAK-960. In contrast, suppression of PLK3, which is also highly expressed in neutrophils, did not affect cell viability, indicating that PKD2 is critical for neutrophil survival. Moreover, a significant positive correlation was observed between PKD2 inhibition and white blood cell counts in nude mice (Pearson's correlation, r=0.75, p=0.009).PKD2 plays a crucial role in human neutrophil survival. Minimizing PKD2 inhibition during small-molecule drug design could be essential to reduce the risk of neutropenia in patients under anti-cancer treatment.Copyright © 2026 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
Bladder cancer, a widely occurring malignant tumor worldwide, is closely related to the abnormal activation of numerous signaling pathways during its initiation, progression, and metastasis. Protein kinase D2 (PRKD2), as a member of the protein kinase D family, exerts a pivotal influence on human cancers. This research aimed to elucidate the involvement and mechanism of PRKD2 in bladder cancer.PRKD2 expression was analyzed using quantitative real-time PCR, Western blotting and tissue microarray (n = 30). Functional experiments were conducted to evaluate the biological phenotypes of cells, including CCK-8 assay, colony formation assay, flow cytometry analysis, scratch wound healing assay, Transwell migration assay, and mouse xenograft model. The phosphorylation of MCM2 by PRKD2 was examined using site-directed mutagenesis and immunoprecipitation assay assays.Our results revealed markedly elevated expression levels of PRKD2 in bladder cancer compared to control tissues. Increased PRKD2 expression was associated with lymph node metastasis, distant metastasis, advanced TNM staging, and poorer prognosis. Functional experiments demonstrated that depletion of PRKD2 impeded the proliferation, migration, invasion, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition of bladder cancer cells in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, PRKD2 phosphorylates complex component 2 (MCM2) at serine 139. This phosphorylation drives the malignant progression of bladder cancer cells.These findings offer new insights into regulatory mechanisms involving PRKD2 contributing to the malignancy of bladder cancer, thereby presenting a potential therapeutic target.© 2025. The Author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41107108
Skipped: PubMed ID 40943530 is a review article
A constitutively active mutant of the receptor protein tyrosine kinase KIT is a major cause of gastrointestinal stromal tumours (GISTs). Recently, we discovered that, during biosynthetic transport, the KIT mutant (KITmut) is retained in the Golgi/trans-Golgi network (TGN), where it activates downstream molecules. This retention is dependent on the phospholipase Cγ2-protein kinase D2-PI4 kinase IIIβ (PLCγ2-PKD2-PI4KIIIβ) pathway, which KITmut activates at the Golgi/TGN. The activated cascade aberrantly recruits GGA1 and the γ-adaptin subunit of AP1, resulting in KITmut retention in the Golgi/TGN. However, the precise mechanisms, including the mediators and effectors of the pathway, remain unclear. In humans, the phosphatidic acid-generating enzymes, phospholipase D1 (PLD1) and PLD2 are known downstream proteins of PKD. In the presence of the PLD inhibitor CAY10594, KITmut is released from the Golgi/TGN and subsequently degraded in lysosomes, leading to signal inactivation. Knockdown experiments indicated that PLD2 plays a role in KITmut retention. KITmut activates PLD2 through PKD2, but not PI4KIIIβ, for Golgi/TGN retention. PLD activity is required for the association of γ-adaptin with GGA1. Therefore, the KIT-PLCγ2-PKD2 pathway separately activates PLD2 and PI4KIIIβ to recruit γ-adaptin and GGA1. Collectively, these results suggest that KITmut retention is dependent on the activation of the PLCγ2-PKD2-PLD2 cascade in GIST cells.© 2025. The Author(s).
Current interventions for endometriosis mainly involve hormone therapies but have limited efficacy and unacceptable side effects due to the lack of selectivity to distinguish between endometriosis and endometrial tissues. Elucidating the molecular mechanism underlying the rapid growth of endometrial-like stromal cells, one of the main components of endometriotic lesions, will pave a path for more effective treatment of endometriosis. In the current study, we utilized transcriptome sequencing to compare the transcriptional profiles of endometrial-like stromal cells from endometriosis and endometrial tissues and demonstrated that Homeobox C4 (HOXC4) is preferentially expressed in endometriotic lesions. HOXC4 is indispensable for the proliferation of stromal cells from endometriosis, but not those from endometrial tissues. Mechanistically, HOXC4 acts as a transcription factor to promote the expression of Slit Guidance Ligand 2 (SLIT2) and thereby increases the p38 MAPK activity via the SLIT2 receptor roundabout guidance receptor 1 (ROBO1). Considering the essential role of the p38 MAPK activity in facilitating the development of ectopic endometrium, our findings strongly support the idea of HOXC4, as well as the SLIT2-ROBO1 axis, being potential therapeutic targets for endometriosis.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
This study aimed to characterize acquired enamel pellicle (AEP) proteomic changes after exposure to citric acid (CA) and hydrochloric acid (HCl) under different pellicle formation times (3 and 120 min) in the same volunteers.Nine healthy volunteers participated in this randomized crossover in vivo study. The AEP was allowed to form for 3 or 120 min and subsequently exposed for 10 s to deionized water (control), 1% CA (pH 2.5), or 0.01 M HCl (pH 2.0). Pellicle samples were collected, followed by protein extraction, tryptic digestion, and analysis by nanoliquid chromatography (nanoLC) coupled to mass spectrometry (MS) with MSE (data-independent acquisition; nanoLC-MSᴱ). Label-free quantitative proteomics were performed for relative quantification using t-test (p < 0.05).At 120 min, CA exposure markedly reduced several typical AEP proteins, especially acidic proline-rich proteins (PRPs). Conversely, basic PRPs were upregulated, suggesting acid-resistance protein signature. At 3 min, basal-layer proteins (PRPs, cystatins, histatins and mucins) were more abundant. Hemoglobins increased 6-8-fold (up to 150-fold in 3 min control), suggesting association with early pellicle formation and an acid-resistant protein signature. CA exposures for 120 min also upregulated typical AEP proteins (PRPs, mucins, cystatins, immunoglobulins), while HCl exposure depleted albumins and lactotransferrin.Intrinsic and extrinsic acids induce distinct proteomic signatures in the AEP. Hemoglobin and PRPs appear consistently enriched in the early pellicle layer, reflecting an initial acid-resistant protein signature. These findings provide new insights into the molecular remodeling of the AEP following intrinsic and extrinsic acid exposure, highlighting proteins potentially involved in early-stage pellicle formation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The human genome encodes ~1,900 secreted proteins, many of which mediate intercellular communication. Secreted proteins do not act cell-autonomously, limiting systematic approaches to characterize their functions. Here we introduce SecAct (Secreted Activity, https://secact.ccr.cancer.gov ), a computational framework that infers the signaling activities of 1,170 human secreted proteins from spatial, single-cell and bulk transcriptomic data. The inference model harnesses precomputed intercellular signaling signatures trained on 1,258 spatial transcriptomics samples spanning 37 cancer types. Transcriptomics data from antisecreted protein therapies validate SecAct's accuracy in predicting the repression of secreted protein activity following treatment. For spatial and single-cell transcriptomics data, SecAct provides interactive modules for analyzing secreted protein-mediated cell-cell communication. Applying SecAct to 54 cancer immunotherapy cohorts comprising 5,174 patients, we identified secreted proteins associated with tumor immunity. In vivo experiments validated lymphocyte antigen 86 (LY86), whose function in cancer was previously unknown, as an antitumor regulator.© 2026. This is a U.S. Government work and not under copyright protection in the US; foreign copyright protection may apply.
The mechanisms underlying the modulation of the salivary perception of umami peptides remain poorly understood. Herein, three umami peptides (DDL, DEL, and ENG) obtained from Agrocybe aegerita were used to investigate the regulatory role of saliva in umami taste perception via a combined approach involving sensory evaluation and proteomics analysis based on 4D-DIA technology. The results revealed that umami intensity peaked at 10 s after ingestion and was accompanied by a significant increase in saliva secretion (p < 0.05). Further proteomics analysis revealed that lactotransferrin and proline-rich proteins are closely associated with the sensory perception of umami peptides. Differentially expressed proteins were mainly enriched in pathways related to saliva secretion and proteasome function. This study provides new insights from the perspectives of salivary proteomics and dynamic salivary secretion, contributing to a deeper understanding of the mechanisms by which saliva regulates umami perception.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Aspergillus fumigatus represent the dominant bacterial and fungal pathogens in the lungs of adults with cystic fibrosis. Understanding how these species interact with each other and the host may provide insight into pathology and microbial succession in the lung. The ex vivo pig lung model is suitable for studying host responses to pathogens in an ethical and cost-effective manner due to its rich cell complexity and anatomical and immunological similarities to humans. Metagenomic analysis demonstrated that A. fumigatus promoted the proliferation of Pseudomonadota and P. aeruginosa in coinfected explants. Proteomic analysis of coinfected alveolar lung explants identified reduced virulence of A. fumigatus in competition with P. aeruginosa with reductions in abundance of dipeptidyl-peptidase 5 (-10.30-fold) and thioredoxin reductase gliT (-11.72-fold) and a reduction in amide biosynthetic processes. P. aeruginosa flourished in coinfected tissue and increased protein translation and amino acid biosynthesis and cellular nitrogen utilization. Examination of changes in the porcine proteome indicated specific nutritional utilization with A. fumigatus inducing greater complement activation and utilization of amino acids, while P. aeruginosa infection induced greater natural killer cell toxicity and potential butanoate metabolism from the host. Increased abundance of proteins associated with inflammation and immune activation was observed in coinfected samples relative to the mono-infected tissues. Coinfection also resulted in the reduction in abundance of ferritin and lactotransferrin, which may indicate elevated bioavailability of iron that could facilitate P. aeruginosa virulence.
Milk is an essential nutritional source for human health, yet developing efficient and sustainable indoor dairy production systems to produce milk-associated components remains a major challenge. Here, we propose a biomimetic mammary gland-on-a-chip system that recapitulates both the structural features and lactation mechanism of the mammary gland for producing milk-associated bioactive components. The chip is designed with a medium channel providing circulation, an intermediate porous hydrogel layer for substance diffusion, and highly specialized microchambers for culturing mammary epithelial cells. The mammary gland-on-a-chip enables tight-junction formation and active secretion of milk bioactive components such as lactotransferrin and triglycerides. More importantly, by expanding the microchambers and parallelizing the chips, increased collection of partial milklike secretions containing selected bioactive components was achieved. Our work represents the successful development of a robust microphysiological system as a potential in vitro platform for mammary gland research and is promising in addressing future food and environmental crises.Copyright © 2026 Xiang Lin et al.
Rhinovirus (RV) infections increase the risk for developing asthma and are the major trigger for disease exacerbations. CC16 levels are decreased in patients with asthma and inversely associated with inflammation and exacerbation frequency.We sought to determine the impact of CC16 on the RV species A, type 1B (RV-A1B) infection in airway nasal epithelial cells in the context of asthma status.Human nasal epithelial cells (HNECs) from participants with asthma and non-asthmatic participants in air-liquid interface culture were infected with RV-A1B, with and without recombinant CC16 (rCC16). Viral RNA and expression of host factors previously identified as associated with CC16 levels, including lysozyme, SPLUNC1, lactotransferrin, and surfactant protein D, were quantified by quantitative RT-PCR. Animal models and mouse tracheal epithelial cells (MTECs) sufficient and deficient in CC16 were infected with RV-A1B, with and without rCC16, to verify findings.HNECs from participants with asthma (n = 7) had lower gene expression of CC16 and associated host defense factors under baseline conditions compared with HNECs from non-asthmatic participants (n = 7). Whereas RV infection increased host factors in HNECs from non-asthmatic participants, HNECs from participants with asthma failed to upregulate host factors in response to RV. rCC16 induced the expression of the host defense factors and reduced viral burden in HNECs from both non-asthmatic participants and participants with asthma, which was partly dependent on integrin α2β1, or VLA-2, interactions. CC16-deficient (CC16-/-) mice had worse RV infection, more inflammation, and lower gene expression of host defense factors in their lungs compared with wild-type mice. Secreted protein levels were verified from apical washings of MTECs from CC16-/- mice, which were significantly decreased compared with WT MTECs. Rescue studies in CC16-/- mice by delivery of rCC16 during RV infection resulted in decreased inflammatory cell recruitment and infection.Results suggest that CC16 reduces RV infection in epithelial cells by mediating the upregulation of host defense factors and that this mechanism may be defective in patients with asthma who have low levels of CC16.Copyright © 2026 American Academy of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The regenerative capacity of the liver critically determines recovery outcomes following partial liver transplantation or hepatectomy. While cytokines, immune responses, and metabolic dynamics modulate hepatic regeneration, the role of aconitate decarboxylase 1 (Acod1)-a key enzyme catalyzing itaconate biosynthesis-remains underexplored. This study elucidates the regulatory function of Acod1 in liver regeneration and its underlying mechanisms. Male wild-type (WT) and Acod1-knockout (Acod1-/-) mice underwent 70% or 90% partial hepatectomy (PHx), with interventions including 4-octyl itaconate (4OI) and citraconate administration. Postoperative assessments at 0, 3, 6, 12, 24, 36 and 48 h included liver-to-body weight ratios, serum ALT/AST levels, histopathology, proliferation markers (Ki67, PCNA), cell cycle gene expression, and survival analysis. RNA seq and metabolic profiling were performed to explore mechanistic pathways. Our results demonstrated that Acod1 expression peaked at 36 h post-hepatectomy. In 90% lethal PHx model, Acod1-/- mice showed significantly improved survival versus WT controls. Following 70% PHx, Acod1-/- mice exhibited enhanced liver regeneration at 36 h, with significantly lower serum transaminase levels compared to WT controls. Exogenous 4-OI administration abrogated this pro-regenerative phenotype in Acod1-/- mice, whereas CITRA treatment in WT mice produced a similar pro-regenerative pattern, improving both regeneration-associated readouts and survival. Mechanistically, RNA-seq revealed upregulated ketone body metabolism genes in Acod1-/- mice, concomitant with elevated hepatic β-hydroxybutyrate and reduced intrahepatic lipids versus WT controls. This study demonstrates that Acod1 deficiency enhances post-hepatectomy liver regeneration by suppressing itaconate production, thereby promoting fatty acid mobilization. These findings support Acod1-associated metabolic regulation as a potential therapeutic target for optimizing liver regeneration and postoperative recovery.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Autoimmune uveitis is a vision-threatening inflammatory disorder driven by dysregulated T helper 17 (Th17) responses, yet therapeutic strategies targeting Th17 differentiation are lacking. Through transcriptomic screening of an experimental autoimmune uveitis (EAU) model and validation in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada patients, we identified MAP1S (microtubule-associated protein 1S) as a pivotal, conserved regulator. Here, we demonstrate that MAP1S constrains pathogenic Th17 responses and alleviates EAU through a dual mechanism coordinating transcriptional control and autophagic degradation. Mechanistically, MAP1S binds to EGR2 (early growth response 2) and restrains its acetylation at Lys368, thereby suppressing Lcn2 (lipocalin 2) transcription. Besides, MAP1S facilitates autophagosome biogenesis and lysosomal trafficking, promoting the autophagic clearance of LCN2 protein. Notably, MAP1S deficiency enhances EGR2 acetylation, increases Lcn2 transcription, disrupts autophagosome trafficking, impairs LCN2 degradation, and promotes LCN2 accumulation, collectively driving Th17 polarization and exacerbating EAU pathology. Adoptive transfer of cervical lymph node cells from map1s knockout mice reproduced severe disease in wild-type recipients. Moreover, pharmacological activation of MAP1S with spermidine suppressed Th17 responses and alleviated disease severity. Our findings establish MAP1S as a critical node integrating acetylation signaling of EGR2 and autophagic flux to govern LCN2 homeostasis and Th17 pathogenicity, revealing a promising therapeutic target for autoimmune uveitis and potentially other Th17-mediated diseases.Abbreviations: AAV: adeno-associated virus; ACOD1: aconitate decarboxylase 1; AU: autoimmune uveitis; BCL2: B cell leukemia/lymphoma 2; CDLNs: cervical draining lymph nodes; CFA: complete Freund's adjuvant; ChIP: chromatin immunoprecipitation; Co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CQ: chloroquine; EAU: experimental autoimmune uveitis; EGR2: early growth response 2; GDF15: growth differentiation factor 15; HDAC4: histone deacetylase 4; HDAC6: histone deacetylase 6; IL17: interleukin 17; IL17f: interleukin 17f; IL22: interleukin 22; K: lysine; KAT2A/GCN5: K(lysine) acetyltransferase 2A; KO: knockout; LCN2: lipocalin 2; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3; MAP1S: microtubule-associated protein 1S; MS: mass spectrometry; PBMC: peripheral blood mononuclear cell; PCR: polymerase chain rection; PPI: protein-protein interaction; PTX: pertussis toxin; qPCR: quantitative PCR; RT-qPCR: reverse transcription and quantitative real-time RCR; SAA3: serum amyloid A3; SPD: spermidine; Th1 cells: T helper 1 cells; Th17 cells: T helper 17 cells; TF: transcriptional factor; Tregcells: regulatory T cells; VKH disease: Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada disease; WT: wild-type.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42392922 is a review article
The integration of nanotechnology into ophthalmology represents a promising frontier for the development of precision diagnostics and therapeutics aimed at enhancing ocular health. While the systemic interactions of iron oxide nanoparticles (IONPs) with blood plasma have been extensively studied, their biomolecular interactions within the ocular environment, particularly human tears, remain largely unexplored. In this study, we comprehensively investigate the physicochemical behaviour and proteomic corona interactions of IONPs upon exposure to human tear extracts. Dynamic light scattering (DLS) revealed a modest increase in hydrodynamic diameter from ∼115 ± 3.3 nm to ∼139 ± 0.7 nm, accompanied by a reduction in the zeta potential (ZP) from ∼-36 ± 1.7 mV to ∼-29 ± 1 mV, likely due to protein adsorption. Proteomic profiling via liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) identified that 25 tear proteins got adsorbed onto the IONPs when compared to tear alone samples with 91 proteins, revealing the association of Lysozyme C, Lactotransferrin, Mammaglobin B, Lipocalin-1, keratins, immunoglobulins, opiorphin propeptide, Keratin II, Protein S100 and mesothelin proteins implicated in bacteriolysis, iron transport, transcriptional regulation, immune response, the cytoskeleton, tissue integrity, nucleotide binding, inflammation regulation, skin tissue formation, endogenous inhibition, microbiome homeostasis and signal transduction. These findings provide protein dynamics of the ocular nano-bio interface, emphasizing the influence of tear protein composition on IONPs. Our results highlight how tear protein corona formation defines the physicochemical stability of IONPs within the human tear environment and provide a basic understanding of these alterations, which may influence IONP-based ocular therapeutic systems.
Type 1 diabetes mellitus characterized by insulin deficiency and hyperglycemia is associated with female subfertility. However, how hyperglycemia affects the hypothalamic-pituitary-ovarian-uterine axis remains poorly understood. In this study, we performed single-cell transcriptomic profiling of the hypothalamus, pituitary, ovary and uterus during the proliferative phase of the menstrual cycle in type 1 diabetic macaques to systematically characterize changes in tissue-specific cellular heterogeneity, gene expression, and intercellular communication networks under diabetic conditions. Our analysis revealed significant upregulation of the TNF signaling pathway across multiple tissues, concomitant with marked activation of inflammation-related pathways. Notably, the macrophage migration inhibitory factor signaling pathway exhibited a tissue-specific regulatory pattern, being significantly upregulated in the hypothalamus and pituitary but downregulated in the ovary and uterus, suggesting divergent inflammatory modulation along the reproductive endocrine axis in response to diabetes. Moreover, we observed that diabetes leads to reduced FSHR expression during granulosa cell differentiation, and this process is further exacerbated by the upregulated expression of SFRP4, a known antagonist of follicle-stimulating hormone signaling, resulting in diminished granulosa cell responsiveness to follicle-stimulating hormone. Consequently, this dysregulation is correlated with increased FSHB expression in pituitary gonadotropes, likely due to disrupted ovarian feedback signaling. Collectively, our findings provide a comprehensive landscape of cellular and molecular alterations in immune and endocrine compartments in the female reproductive system in diabetic states, advancing our understanding of immune‒endocrine cell crosstalk in the context of metabolic disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42536020 is a review article
Intestinal dysbiosis is a hallmark of both inflammatory bowel conditions and colorectal cancer, yet the mechanisms by which inflammatory mediators alter microbial communities and may contribute to tumor development remain poorly understood. Macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) is a proinflammatory cytokine involved in innate immunity and the progression of inflammatory and neoplastic disorders. In this study, sequencing of the microbial 16S rRNA gene was performed to characterize the fecal microbiota profiles of wild-type (WT) and MIF-knockout (MIF-KO) BALB/c mice subjected to AOM/DSS-induced colitis-associated colorectal cancer (CAC). CAC induction resulted in marked microbial shifts, including increases in Muribaculaceae and Bacteroidota, in both WT and MIF-KO mice. Notably, MIF-KO CAC mice developed more severe disease compared with WT CAC mice. Furthermore, FMT experiments revealed that the fecal microbiota from MIF-KO donors was associated with increased tumor burden in WT recipients under CAC-inducing conditions compared with that in recipients colonized with WT-derived microbiota. Together, these findings suggest that MIF deficiency is associated with gut microbiota remodeling during CAC and support a potential relationship between the MIF-dependent host context, microbial composition and colorectal cancer severity.
Parasite-derived homologs of the cytokine macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) function as virulent factors during parasitic infection. Recent evidence suggests MIF-like products from multicellular helminthic species can be targeted to ameliorate parasite burden. Here, we identify a broad contingent of hypothetical MIF-like proteins from genomic helminth repositories and perform structure analysis to validate conserved homology. Further, we employ a diverse subset of MIF-specific assays to establish cross-species functionality of helminth MIF proteins, including native enzymatic activity, binding to cognate receptor CD74, direct interactions with human MIF, and signaling through chemokine receptors CXCR2 and CXCR4. We demonstrate that MIF-like proteins retain a preserved architecture but are capable of diverse physiological outcomes due to small changes in key components of the conserved MIF structure. This work simultaneously provides a mechanistic understanding of helminth virulence upon infection, while broadly examining the potential to neutralize MIF-like proteins for protection against various pathological species.© 2026 The Authors.
To observe the effect of electroacupuncture (EA) at "Hegu" (LI4) and "Quchi" (LI11) on skin inflammatory injury, itching, and poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP1)-dependent cell death (Parthanatos) in mice with atopic dermatitis (AD) based on the protease-activated receptor 2 (PAR2)/transient receptor potential vanilloid 3 (TRPV3) pathway, and to explore the possible mechanism of EA in the treatment of AD.Thirty-six male BALB/c mice were randomly divided into a normal group, a model group, and an EA group, with 12 mice in each group. The AD model was established by topical application of calcipotriol (MC903) solution. After successful modeling, the EA group received EA at bilateral LI4 and LI11 once daily, 30 min per session, for 7 consecutive days. The scoring atopic dermatitis (SCORAD) index and scratching frequency were recorded before and after intervention in each group. Histopathological morphology of skin tissue was observed by HE staining. Cell apoptosis in skin tissue was detected by TUNEL assay. The protein expressions of PAR2, TRPV3, interleukin (IL)-33, IL-31, IL-13, PARP1, mitochondrial apoptosis-inducing factor 1 (AIFM1), and macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) in skin tissue were measured by Western blot. The mRNA expression levels of PAR2, TRPV3, inflammatory factors (IL-33, IL-31, IL-13), and Parthanatos-related genes (PAR2, TRPV3, PARP1, AIFM1, MIF) in skin tissue were detected by real-time quantitative PCR. The expression of PARP1 in skin tissue was determined by immunofluorescence.Compared with the normal group, the model group showed significantly increased SCORAD score (P<0.01), elevated scratching frequency (P<0.01), higher skin cell apoptosis rate (P<0.01), up-regulated protein and mRNA expressions of PAR2, TRPV3, inflammatory factors (IL-33, IL-31, IL-13), and Parthanatos-related factors PARP1, AIFM1, MIF (P<0.01, P<0.05), as well as enhanced PARP1 fluorescence intensity (P<0.01). Compared with the model group, the EA group exhibited decreased SCORAD score (P<0.01), reduced scratching frequency (P<0.01), lower skin cell apoptosis rate (P<0.01), down-regulated protein and mRNA expressions of PAR2, TRPV3, inflammatory factors (IL-33, IL-31, IL-13), and Parthanatos-related factors PARP1, AIFM1, MIF (P<0.05, P<0.01), and weakened PARP1 fluorescence intensity (P<0.01). HE staining showed severe skin lesions, marked epidermal hyperplasia and massive inflammatory cell infiltration in the model group, whereas the EA group displayed relatively intact epidermal structure, significantly alleviated structural damage, and less inflammatory cell infiltration.EA at LI4 and LI11 can alleviate skin inflammatory injury and itching in AD mice, and its mechanism may be related to down-regulating the PAR2/TRPV3 pathway and inhibiting Parthanatos in skin cells.
Exercise-induced fatigue (EIF) is closely associated with male reproductive dysfunction, but the underlying mechanism remains unclear. This study aimed to explore whether EIF induces oxidative stress and epididymal inflammation, and to clarify the protective role and regulatory pathway of matrix remodeling-associated 7 (MXRA7). Clinical samples from EIF volunteers and an EIF mouse model were used to detect oxidative stress, inflammation, and sperm quality. Mouse caput epididymal PC-1 cells and cauda epididymal DC-2 cells were cultured to establish inflammatory injury models. MXRA7 expression, localization, and function were analyzed by transcriptomic analysis, gene knockdown/overexpression, Western blotting, immunofluorescence, co-immunoprecipitation, and in vitro phosphorylation assays. The results showed that EIF significantly elevated systemic and epididymal oxidative stress and inflammatory responses in both humans and mice, accompanied by impaired sperm motility and epididymal dysfunction. MXRA7 was highly expressed in epididymal epithelial cells, especially in the cauda epididymis, and its expression was negatively correlated with the severity of inflammation. MXRA7 knockdown aggravated inflammatory injury in DC-2 cells, whereas MXRA7 overexpression suppressed oxidative stress, inflammatory factor release, and NF-κB signaling activation. Mechanistically, protein kinase C alpha (PKCα) mediated the expression and phosphorylation of MXRA7, and MXRA7 further inhibited the NF-κB pathway to alleviate epididymal inflammation. In addition, MXRA7 expressed by cauda epididymal epithelial cells directly protected sperm from inflammatory damage. In conclusion, EIF impairs sperm function by triggering epididymal oxidative stress and inflammatory injury. MXRA7, regulated by PKCα-mediated phosphorylation, serves as a key protective factor that attenuates EIF-induced epididymal inflammation via inhibiting the NF-κB signaling pathway. This study provides a novel target for the prevention and treatment of reproductive damage caused by excessive exercise.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Peripheral neuropathy is a global health concern that markedly impairs quality of life. Peripheral nerve injury triggers complex interactions between the immune and nervous systems, driving persistent neuroinflammation and neuropathic pain. Macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF), a proinflammatory cytokine, has emerged as a key mediator in this process. Macrophage migration inhibitory factor binds to its primary receptor CD74, promotes cytokine release, recruits macrophages into the inflammatory milieu, and amplifies inflammatory responses. ISO-1, a small-molecule, high-affinity MIF inhibitor, targets the tautomerase active site of MIF, disrupts MIF-receptor (including canonical receptor CD74) binding, and thereby mitigates downstream inflammatory response. In this study, we investigated the anti-inflammatory and analgesic effects of ISO-1 in both male and female mice subjected to chronic constriction injury (CCI) of the sciatic nerve. A battery of behavioral, electrophysiological, immunohistochemical, and molecular approaches was used to evaluate the impact of systemic ISO-1 treatment on neuroinflammation and neuropathic pain. Electrophysiological recordings from the superficial dorsal horn neurons in acute spinal cord slices revealed that ISO-1 largely prevented the CCI-induced imbalance between excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic currents. ISO-1 significantly reduced macrophage infiltration at the sciatic nerve injury site and within dorsal root ganglia. Notably, ISO-1 alleviated mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia in male mice, but not in female mice, a sex-specific effect corroborated by quantitative PCR analysis of inflammatory mediators. Together, these findings identify ISO-1 as a promising MIF-targeted strategy to counteract neuroinflammation and neuropathic pain after peripheral nerve injury and highlight the importance of sex-specific responses for the development of personalized immunomodulatory therapies.Copyright © 2026 International Association for the Study of Pain.
Cardiac cachexia (CC) is an indicator of advanced heart failure (AHF), with significant unintentional weight loss (UWL) and poor prognosis. Its diagnostic criteria incorporate upregulation of established inflammatory cytokines. Identification of novel biomarkers, for example, via proteomic analyses, could unearth unstudied mechanisms behind CC formation with future applications in disease therapeutics. This study, therefore, aimed to explore the presence of contemporary, novel biomarkers, and mechanistic pathways in CC using targeted proteomics.Patients with AHF or stable heart failure were recruited and the presence of CC/UWL was identified. AHF was identified using the American Heart Association "I NEED HELP" criteria, and CC was identified using the contemporary 2008 consensus definition. All patients underwent phlebotomy, with plasma proteomic analyses using Olink Target 96 Cardiovascular II panel. Median proteins concentrations were compared between the CC/UWL group and the rest of cohort, with enrichment analyses conducted to identify potential novel pathways behind disease formation. Area under the receiver operator curve analysis was conducted to determine whether significant biomarkers had potential in identifying CC/UWL.Six proteins were differentially expressed in the CC/UWL group, of which four were novel: interleukin-27 and -4, vascular endothelial growth factor D, and bone morphogenetic protein-6. All were suitable biomarkers (area under the receiver operator curve range 0.741-0.826). Protein enrichment analyses yielded significant pathways in disease formation relating to immune regulation and cytokine signalling.We identified four novel biomarkers in CC, all of which are feasible biomarkers of disease identification, with proposed pathways of potential pathogenesis. Further research should be undertaken to validate our findings to better understand the mechanistic pathways in functional studies, with onward consideration regarding whether our findings have therapeutic applications.Copyright © 2026 Australian and New Zealand Society of Cardiac and Thoracic Surgeons (ANZSCTS) and the Cardiac Society of Australia and New Zealand (CSANZ). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Breast cancer (BC) is the main cause of cancer-related mortality in women and is influenced by genetic, environmental and lifestyle factors. The inactivation of tumor suppressor genes, such as bone morphogenetic protein 6 (BMP6), breast cancer susceptibility gene 1 (BRCA1), estrogen receptor 2 (ESR2), glutathione S-transferase π1 (GSTP1) and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 3 (TIMP3), via methylation may contribute to the development of BC. The present study analyzed the methylation status of these genes in 60 BC and benign disease (BD) tissue samples from Mexican women and the association with clinical and histopathological variables. DNA was modified with sodium bisulfite, followed by methylation-specific PCR and electrophoresis, and analyzed using χ2 test, Fisher's exact test, logistic regression, odds ratio (OR) with 95% confidence interval and Kaplan-Meier curves. The results indicated that the average age was higher in the BC group compared with that in the BD group (55 vs. 42 years; P<0.00001), with ≥50 years being a significant risk factor (OR, 5.44; P=0.00002). Only BRCA1 demonstrated a significant difference in methylation status, increasing the susceptibility to BC (OR, 2.50; P=0.0001), and tending to be associated with increased proliferation and lymph node metastasis. TIMP3 methylation was significantly associated with distant metastasis (OR, 8.65; P=0.028). Methylation of BRCA1 and TIMP3 demonstrated a significant association with poor prognosis in BC. BRCA1 was methylated more frequently in women with BC and TIMP3 was associated with a higher risk of distant metastasis. The present study highlighted the potential of these genes as prognostic biomarkers and the need to further explore DNA methylation for diagnostic and therapeutic purposes in future research.Copyright: © 2026 de la Torre-Guzmán et al.
Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD), including Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC), are chronic disorders with relapsing and remitting disease courses. Several clinical indicators and biomarkers have been evaluated for their clinical utility in assessing disease prognosis and monitoring disease activity. This study evaluated the utility of growth differentiation factor-15 (GDF15) and bone morphogenetic protein-6 (BMP6) in inflammatory pathways and iron regulation in IBD.Between September 2015 and March 2016, this single-center, cross-sectional study included 40 CD patients, 29 UC patients, and 70 healthy controls. The disease activity was measured using the Mayo score and the Crohn's Disease Activity Index (CDAI). Serum iron, hematological indices, inflammatory markers, and the novel biomarkers BMP6 and GDF15 as determined by ELISA were evaluated.Both the CD and UC groups showed significantly lower serum iron (p < 0.001), reduced mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration, and higher red cell distribution width than the control group. Inflammatory markers, including erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) and C-reactive protein (CRP), were elevated in IBD, particularly during active disease, with CRP increasing significantly in active UC compared to remission (p = 0.040). In contrast, BMP6 and GDF15 levels did not differ significantly between the disease groups or activity states. Nonetheless, GDF15 demonstrated moderate positive correlations with serum iron (r = 0.314), hemoglobin (r = 0.320), and mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration (MCHC) (r = 0.344), suggesting a link to erythropoietic or iron-related processes rather than inflammation.Conventional markers reliably confirmed iron deficiency and inflammation in IBD. BMP6 and GDF15 levels did not differ significantly across disease states, indicating limited utility as markers of disease activity. Notably, GDF15 was positively correlated with serum iron, hemoglobin, and MCHC, suggesting its association with iron metabolism rather than active inflammation. Larger longitudinal studies are warranted to validate this potential role.Not applicable.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 41789095 is a review article
Calcium phosphate (CaP) ceramics are widely used in bone regenerative medicine for their osteoconductive properties. Osteogrow-C is a novel device that comprises recombinant human bone morphogenetic protein 6 (rhBMP6) in autologous blood coagulum, utilizing ceramics as a compression-resistant matrix. This study evaluated how CaP granule size and composition affect bone formation and implant integrity in 2 relevant animal models: the rat subcutaneous model and rabbit posterolateral lumbar fusion (PLF) model, over 1 year. The implants in the rat model had varying granule size ranges (74 to 420 μm, 500 to 1,700 μm, 2,360 to 4,000 μm) and compositions [β-tricalcium phosphate (β-TCP), hydroxyapatite (HA), and biphasic ceramics (TCP/HA 80/20)]. Micro-computed tomography (CT) and histology showed that Osteogrow-C induced bone formation on all ceramic scaffolds, with smaller granules resulting in higher bone volume and density, regardless of composition. TCP granules were most resorbed, but residual ceramics persisted in all groups. Based on these findings, Osteogrow-C, containing small granules with different compositions (TCP, HA, TCP/HA 80/20, and TCP/HA 40/60), was further tested in the clinically relevant rabbit PLF model and induced fusion of transverse processes. Importantly, ceramics were more resorbed in the rabbit PLF model, with TCP and TCP/HA 80/20 ceramics showing the highest resorption rate, while HA remained intact. Osteogrow-C containing HA showed increased bone volume; however, biomechanical strength and thicker cortical bone were achieved with TCP and biphasic calcium phosphate (BCP). Finally, in the rat model, bone volume was primarily dependent on granule size, with smaller granules promoting greater bone formation and density. Conversely, in the PLF model, the composition played a more important role-affecting ceramic resorption, bone volume, and biomechanical properties.Copyright © 2026 Nikola Stokovic et al.
Hepcidin, a liver-derived hormone, is the central regulator of systemic iron homeostasis. Elevated hepcidin levels contribute to iron-refractory iron-deficiency anemia and anemia of inflammation, both characterized by restricted iron availability. Current treatments, such as parenteral iron infusions, are often ineffective and pose risks of adverse reactions, underscoring the need for alternative therapeutic strategies targeting hepcidin. We previously identified a novel hepcidin regulatory pathway involving liver heparan sulfate (HS) proteoglycans (HSPGs), which modulate receptor-ligand interactions through their sulfated HS chains. Recently, we found that halofuginone (HF) impairs HS biosynthesis and considered whether it could be used as a hepcidin modulator. Here, we demonstrate that in human hepatoma (Hep3B) cells, HF inhibits both basal and bone morphogenetic protein 6-induced hepcidin expression and SMAD1 phosphorylation signaling in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Consistently, Hep3B cells lacking HS (EXT1-/-) show no hepcidin suppression in response to HF. In vivo administration of HF reduces hepcidin expression in an iron-overload mouse model (8.3 g/kg carbonyl iron). This effect was absent in mice with impaired liver HS sulfation (Ndst1f/fAlbCre+), confirming that HF suppresses hepcidin via HSPG-mediated mechanisms. Additionally, HF decreased hepcidin expression in mice subjected to acute inflammation. These findings establish HF as a potential therapeutic for mitigating hepcidin-driven iron restriction in anemic disorders.© 2026 American Society of Hematology. Published by Elsevier Inc. Licensed under Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International (CC BY-NC-ND 4.0), permitting only noncommercial, nonderivative use with attribution. All other rights reserved.
Shallow trophoblast invasion and improper maternal spiral artery remodeling are the primary mechanisms underlying the development of preeclampsia (PE). Bone morphogenetic protein 6 (BMP6) is a proinvasive and proangiogenic factor in vitro; however, its regulatory mechanisms in trophoblast behavior and its role in PE development remain unclear. In this study, primary human trophoblasts and the HTR8/SVneo cell line were utilized asin vitrostudy models. Bulk RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) and single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data were analyzed to explore the expression patterns of BMP6-regulated genes. We found that BMP6 treatment significantly upregulated inhibitor of DNA-binding 1 (ID1) in human trophoblasts. ID1 depletion abolished both basal and BMP6-induced trophoblast invasion and vascular mimicry. Mechanistically, ID1-mediated upregulation of serpin family E member 2 (SERPINE2) and placental growth factor (PlGF) was essential for BMP6-induced trophoblast invasion. In third-trimester placentas, BMP6 mRNA and protein levels were significantly elevated in PE compared with controls. In the adenovirus-expressing fms-like tyrosine kinase-1 (Ad Flt1)-induced rat model of PE, both circulating BMP6 and placental Bmp6 expression were increased in PE rats in late pregnancy. Significantly, BMP6 supplementation during early pregnancy (gestational days 10-13) alleviated maternal hypertension and fetal growth restriction in the PE model. These findings suggest BMP6 promotes trophoblast invasion through ID1-mediated upregulation of SERPINE2 and PlGF. The late-gestation upregulation of BMP6 may represent a compensatory response to shallow trophoblast invasion in PE. Early BMP6 supplementation mitigates PE-related phenotypes in a rat model, highlighting BMP6 as a potential therapeutic target for the prevention and management of PE.© 2026. The Author(s).
Bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signaling has multiple functions in immune cells, especially in the differentiation of T cells. Previously, we found that BMP6 can dramatically promote the IFN-γ production in Th1. However, the interactions between BMP6 and Th17 cells remain poorly characterized. The evidence implicates dysregulated Th17 cell differentiation as a pivotal mechanism in psoriatic pathogenesis, yet the therapeutic potential of BMP6 in this autoimmune disease needs to be further explored. This study aimed to evaluate the potentially beneficial role of BMP6 in the Th17-induced psoriatic models and investigate its possible mechanisms. Th17 cells were intervened with BMP6 in vitro. The differentiation of Th17 was observed through multi-platform assessment combining flow cytometry, qRT-PCR, and ELISA. Signaling pathway activation was evaluated by Western blotting. RNAseq was used to further discover the impact of BMP6 on Th17. For in vivo experiments, the psoriatic model of C57BL/6 mice was established and treated with BMP6 i.d., and the Th17 cells were evaluated by flow cytometry. BMP6 treatment suppressed Th17 differentiation via the Smad1/5/9 pathway and impaired mitochondrial metabolism of Th17. In the imiquimod-induced psoriatic murine model, pharmacological BMP6 administration significantly attenuated disease progression and downregulated pathogenic Th17 cell frequency in lesional skin. Our finding elucidates the potential mechanism underlying the inhibitory effects of BMP6 in Th17-induced autoimmune diseases and furnish a theoretical foundation for its clinical application.© 2026. The Author(s).
What are the molecular mechanisms of action of nuclear paraspeckle assembly transcript 1 (NEAT1), miR-130a-3p and bone morphogenetic protein 6 (BMP6) in regulating ovarian granulosa cell (OGC) apoptosis and dysfunction in women with diminished ovarian reserve (DOR)?Follicular fluid was collected from 20 women undergoing oocyte retrieval: 10 with DOR and 10 with normal ovarian reserve (NOR). OGC were isolated and assayed for expression of NEAT1, miR-130a-3p and BMP6. Granulosa-like tumour cell line (KGN) cells were used to investigate NEAT1 function by gene silencing and overexpression.NEAT1 and BMP6 expression were significantly lower in DOR-derived OGC compared with NOR-derived OGC (P < 0.001), while miR-130a-3p expression was elevated (P < 0.001). NEAT1 expression was positively correlated with embryo number (r = 0.505, P = 0.023), number of high-quality embryos (r = 0.757, P < 0.001), two-pronuclei fertilization rate (r = 0.477, P = 0.033) and oocyte yield (r = 0.511, P = 0.021). Dual-Luciferase Reporter assays demonstrated that miR-130a-3p binds directly to NEAT1 and BMP6 3'UTR (P < 0.001). Functionally, NEAT1 overexpression significantly promoted the proliferation and migration of KGN cells, while suppressing apoptosis (P < 0.001); these effects were partially attenuated by miR-130a-3p mimic transfection. Conversely, inhibition of miR-130a-3p significantly reduced apoptosis, and enhanced proliferation and migration of KGN cells (P < 0.001); these effects were partially reversed upon BMP6 silencing.NEAT1 inhibits apoptosis and promotes proliferation and migration of OGC through the miR-130a-3p/BMP6 axis, which may improve oocyte quality in patients with DOR. As such, NEAT1 may be a potential prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target for DOR.ChiCTR2400079975.Copyright © 2025 Reproductive Healthcare Ltd. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Background: Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is a chronic autoinflammatory rheumatic disease mainly affecting the sacroiliac joints and spine, causing altered bone remodeling. Pro-inflammatory cytokines such as TNF-α and IL-17 contribute to bone loss by modulating pathways including Wnt/β-catenin, which is inhibited by proteins like Dickkopf-1 (DKK-1) and sclerostin (SOST). Bone morphogenetic protein-6 (BMP-6) promotes osteoblast differentiation and bone formation. This study evaluated the association between serum levels of DKK-1, SOST, BMP-6, and bone mineral density (BMD) in AS patients treated with anti-TNF agents and conventional synthetic DMARDs (csDMARDs). Methods: A cross-sectional study included 76 AS patients diagnosed by modified New York criteria and 30 healthy donors matched by age and sex. BMD at the lumbar spine and hips was assessed by DXA in all participants. Disease activity (BASDAI) and functional index (BASFI) were measured in AS patients. Serum levels of DKK-1, SOST, BMP-6, TNF-α, and IL-17 were quantified by ELISA in both groups. AS patients were divided into two treatment groups: combined anti-TNFα and csDMARD therapy (n = 38), and only csDMARDs (n = 38). Results: Bone mineral density showed no significant statistical differences between the spine (p = 0.930) and hips (p = 0.876) in AS patients compared to healthy controls. The activity (BASDAI) and functionality (BASFI) scores were similar in both treatment groups (p = 0.161 and p = 0.271, respectively). No significant differences were found in serum levels of DKK-1 (p = 0.815), SOST (p = 0.771), BMP-6 (p = 0.451), or IL-17 (p = 0.335) between combined anti-TNFα and csDMARD therapy versus monotherapy with csDMARD. Conclusions: The combination of anti-TNF bDMARD therapy and csDMARD therapy is not significantly associated with serum levels of DKK-1, SOST, BMP-6, and BMD compared to those treated with csDMARD monotherapy in patients with AS. This study provides novel and clinically relevant evidence on how anti-TNF bDMARDs and csDMARDs differentially affect bone turnover biomarkers and bone health in patients with AS, contributing to a better understanding of therapeutic strategies and guiding future research and clinical decision-making.
Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is characterized by a complex and highly heterogeneous tumor microenvironment (TME), the regulation of which remains incompletely understood. This study systematically investigated the role of protein tyrosine phosphatase non-receptor type 6 (PTPN6) in RCC. Through integrated bioinformatics analysis of TCGA and GEO datasets, we found PTPN6 was consistently overexpressed in multiple cancers, including clear cell (KIRC) and papillary (KIRP) RCC subtypes, where it served as a robust diagnostic marker. Elevated PTPN6 specifically correlated with advanced stage, metastasis, and poor survival exclusively in KIRC. Functional assays in renal carcinoma cells revealed that PTPN6 knockdown minimally affected short-term migration but modestly reduced long-term clonogenic potential. Critically, PTPN6 expression strongly correlated with an immunosuppressive TME signature, enriched stromal/immune scores, and infiltration of M2 macrophages and Tregs. In vitro co-culture experiments and transcriptome sequencing established a mechanistic axis whereby PTPN6 in tumor cells promotes M2 macrophage polarization via upregulation of thrombospondin 1 (THBS1). Furthermore, high PTPN6 expression defined a coherent immunosuppressive landscape and identified a patient subgroup (high PTPN6/low cytolytic activity) with the worst prognosis. Finally, PTPN6 expression was linked to distinct drug sensitivity profiles, and in silico docking supported its potential as a direct pharmacological target. In conclusion, our work establishes PTPN6 as a multifaceted promoter of immunosuppressive microenvironment remodeling and a pivotal regulator of the TME in RCC, positioning it as a promising prognostic marker and a new therapeutic target.© 2026. The Author(s).
Background/Objectives: Src homology 2 domain-containing protein tyrosine phosphatase 1 (SHP-1), also known as protein tyrosine phosphatase non-receptor type 6, functions as a tumor suppressor in breast, hepatocellular, and prostate cancers and an oncogene in glioblastoma and cervical cancer. A previous analysis of The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) dataset revealed that lower SHP-1 transcript levels in bladder tumors were associated with poorer overall survival. Methods: This study aimed to evaluate the role of SHP-1 in bladder cancer and to assess the functional impact of its forced expression and knockdown in bladder carcinoma cell lines. SHP-1 expression was assessed in 19 bladder cancer cell lines and 26 bladder tissues. Lentiviral transduction was used to knock down or overexpress SHP-1 in four cell lines, followed by Western blot analysis of SHP-1 and pAkt/Akt protein expression. Results: SHP-1 protein levels were significantly lower in highly invasive cell lines (p < 0.001) and muscle-invasive tumors (p < 0.05). Functional studies demonstrated that SHP-1 modulation influenced the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) phenotype. SHP-1 expression was positively correlated with E-cadherin expression (p < 0.001) and negatively correlated with N-cadherin (p < 0.01) and Vimentin (p < 0.05) expression. Alteration of SHP-1 expression in bladder cancer cell lines affected proliferation, invasion, and migration (p < 0.05). RNA-seq analysis of the transduced cell lines revealed enrichment of gene sets related to EMT and signaling pathways involving MYC, PI3K, Akt, and mTOR. Furthermore, SHP-1 alteration impacted pAkt/Akt ratios (p < 0.05). Conclusions: Collectively, lower SHP-1 protein expression correlated with more aggressive phenotypes in bladder cancer cell lines and bladder tumors. In our limited dataset, reduced SHP-1 expression correlated with muscle-invasive disease, suggesting a potential link to more advanced tumor biology, consistent with TCGA associating reduced SHP-1 transcript expression to poorer survival rates. Our data provide preliminary functional evidence that SHP-1 may modulate Akt signaling in bladder cancer. Together, these results support further investigation of SHP-1 as a possible tumor suppressor, candidate prognostic biomarker, and potential therapeutic target in bladder cancer.
Cancer remains a leading cause of mortality worldwide, characterized by complex genetic and molecular alterations. The Protein Tyrosine Phosphatase Non-Receptor Type 6 (PTPN6), also known as SHP-1, plays a critical role in regulating immune responses and cellular signaling pathways, with emerging evidence suggesting its involvement in cancer progression. Previous studies have linked aberrant PTPN6 expression to tumorigenesis in specific cancers, such as lymphoma and leukemia, where it acts as a tumor suppressor. However, the comprehensive role of PTPN6 across pan-cancer, particularly its prognostic significance and molecular functions, has not been fully elucidated.This study aimed to provide a pan-cancer analysis of PTPN6, utilizing data from multiple public databases with molecular in vitro experiments.Our findings showed notable differences in PTPN6 expression among different cancer types. Prognostic analyses indicated that higher PTPN6 expression is associated with poorer overall survival in with notable upregulation in kidney renal clear cell carcinoma (KIRC), liver hepatocellular carcinoma (LIHC), and rectum adenocarcinoma (READ). Further, promoter methylation and mutation analyses highlighted alterations in PTPN6 expression across different cancer stages, with a particular reduction in methylation observed in tumor tissues. Functional assays in cell lines demonstrated that PTPN6 promotes cell proliferation, migration, and colony formation, supporting its role in cancer progression.This comprehensive analysis emphasizes the potential of PTPN6 as both a prognostic biomarker and a therapeutic target in cancer. However, further research is required to fully elucidate its role in cancer progression and to assess its clinical applicability.© 2025. The Author(s).
Protein Tyrosine Phosphatase Non-Receptor Type 6 (PTPN6) plays a crucial regulatory role in cellular processes and has been implicated in oncogenesis. This pan-cancer analysis aimed to elucidate PTPN6's involvement across various cancer types, with a particular emphasis on its association with tumor immunity. We analyzed PTPN6 expression data from open access databases using various statistical techniques, including survival analysis, genetic heterogeneity analysis, immune profiling, single-cell analysis, drug sensitivity analysis, and protein interaction analysis. We also conducted in vitro experiments utilizing colorectal cancer cell lines to validate PTPN6's functional role. PTPN6 exhibited distinct expression patterns across cancers, and its prognostic significance was apparent in several cancer types, particularly in glioblastoma, sarcoma, and melanoma. We observed correlations between PTPN6 and immune genes/cell infiltration in these cancers, suggesting a potential role in modulating the tumor immune microenvironment. Single-cell analysis revealed that PTPN6 is predominantly localized in macrophages, B cells, and dendritic cells within the tumor microenvironment, implying its involvement in regulating immune cell function. Enrichment analysis highlighted PTPN6's role in immune-related pathways. Drug sensitivity analysis identified specific drugs, including PAC-1, SNX-2112, BELINOSTAT, VORINOSTAT, TPCA-1, and PHA-893,888, whose efficacy may be influenced by PTPN6 expression. Knocking down PTPN6 expression inhibited the proliferation and migration of colorectal cancer cells in vitro, confirming its oncogenic role in this cancer type. This pan-cancer analysis establishes PTPN6's multifaceted influence on tumor immunity and its potential as a biomarker and therapeutic target.© 2025. The Author(s).
Depression is the leading contributor to disability and suicide ideation. Informed by the insights from bioinformatics analyses, this study investigates the roles of E2F transcription factor 2 (E2F2) and protein tyrosine phosphatase non-receptor type 6 (PTPN6) in the activation of microglia and the manifestation of depressive-like behavior in mice. Chronic unpredictable mild stress was applied to induce a mouse model of depression, while a cellular model featuring microglia was established through exposure to lipopolysaccharide and adenosine triphosphate. E2F2 was upregulated whereas PTPN6 was downregulated in these models. Notably, E2F2 was found to bind to the PTPN6 promoter, thereby repressing its transcription. Various behavioral tests demonstrated that silencing of E2F2, accomplished via shRNA transfection, led to increased locomotor activity, heightened social interaction rates, enhanced sucrose preference, and reduced immobility time in response to stress stimuli in mice. Furthermore, E2F2 silencing effectively reduced expression of Iba1, a microglial activation marker, and decreased concentrations of pro-inflammatory cytokines both in vivo and in vitro. However, these mitigating effects were countered by additional PTPN6 silencing. In conclusion, this study investigation underscores the role of E2F2 in promoting inflammatory activation of microglia and exacerbating depressive-like behavior in mice by repressing PTPN6 transcription.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2025. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a heterogeneous hematologic malignancy characterized by the clonal expansion of myeloid progenitor cells. Despite advancements in treatment, the prognosis for AML patients remains poor, highlighting the need for novel therapeutic targets. Protein Tyrosine Phosphatase Non-Receptor Type 6 (PTPN6), also known as SHP-1, is a critical regulator of hematopoietic cell signaling and has been implicated in various leukemias. This study investigates the therapeutic potential of targeting PTPN6 in AML. We employed both in vitro and in vivo models to evaluate the effects of PTPN6 inhibition on AML cell proliferation, apoptosis, and differentiation. Our results demonstrate that PTPN6 inhibition leads to a significant reduction in AML cell viability, induces apoptosis, and promotes differentiation of leukemic cells into mature myeloid cells. Mechanistic studies revealed that PTPN6 inhibition disrupts key signaling pathways involved in AML pathogenesis, including the JAK/STAT and PI3K/AKT pathways. Furthermore, the combination of PTPN6 inhibitors with standard chemotherapeutic agents exhibited a synergistic effect, enhancing the overall therapeutic efficacy. These findings suggest that PTPN6 is a promising therapeutic target in AML and warrants further investigation into the development of PTPN6 inhibitors for clinical application in AML treatment.© 2024. The Author(s).
Background: The mechanisms of gastric cancer (GC) occurrence and development are still unclear. Although glycosyltransferase 8 domain containing 1 (GLT8D1) has been implicated in GC, its specific role and molecular mechanisms in GC progression need to be further investigated. Methods: Tissue microarrays were used to detect the expression levels of GLT8D1 in 80 GC tissues and their corresponding non-tumor adjacent tissues. The correlations between the GLT8D1 expression level and clinicopathological characteristics were evaluated. A series of in vitro and in vivo functional experiments were performed to explore the role of GLT8D1 in GC progression. Combined with transcriptomic RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) and Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis (WGCNA), we delineated the potential mechanisms via experimental verification. Results: Elevated expression of GLT8D1 in GC tissues was positively correlated with advanced clinical stages and poor prognosis. Konckdown of GLT8D1 significantly inhibited GC cell proliferation and induced apoptosis, whereas overexpression did the opposite. Further researches demonstrated that protein tyrosine phosphatase non-receptor type 6 (PTPN6), a downstream target of GLT8D1, has the capacity to modulate the activity of the JAK2/STAT3 signaling pathway. Conclusions: Our study indicated that GLT8D1 expression was upregulated in GC tissues and correlated with poor prognosis. We reveal a potential molecular mechanism by which GLT8D1 promotes GC progression.© The author(s).
Objective: Protein tyrosine phosphatase non-receptor type 6 (PTPN6) is a cytoplasmic phosphatase that acts as a key regulatory protein in cell signaling to control inflammation and cell death. In order to investigate the role of PTPN6 in hematologic tumor myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), this study infected SKM-1 cell line (MDS cell line) with packaged H_PTPN6-shRNA lentivirus to obtain H_PTPN6-shRNA SKM-1 stable strain. The effect of PTPN6 knockdown on apoptosis, erythroid differentiation, and inflammations in SKM-1 cell line was examined. Methods: The stable knockdown SKM-1 cell line was validated using qPCR and Western blot assays. The proliferation activity, apoptosi, erythroid differentiation, and inflammatory cytokines in SKM-1 cells were assessed before and after transfection. Results: qPCR confirmed that the expression level of H_PTPN6-shRNA in SKM-1 cells was significantly reduced, and Western blot showed that the protein expression level of H_PTPN6-shRNA in SKM-1 cells was also significantly reduced. The CCK-8 cell viability assay confirmed that stable gene knockdown did not affect cell viability. Flow cytometry revealed that the apoptosis rate of cells in the PTPN6 knockdown group was 0.8%, lower than the 2.7% observed in the empty plasmid group; the expression rate of the erythroid differentiation marker CD235a was 13.2%, lower than the 25.0% observed in the empty plasmid group. The expression levels of the proinflammatory factors IL-6 and IL-8 increased, and the expression levels of the inhibitor factor IL-4 decreased. Conclusions: The PTPN6 gene was successfully knocked down using lentivirus-mediated transduction, and the constructed cell line was validated using PCR and Western blot. The CCK-8 cell viability assay confirmed that stable gene knockdown did not affect cell proliferation viability. Flow cytometry analysis of apoptosis and erythroid differentiation indicated that PTPN6 knockdown inhibits apoptosis and erythroid differentiation in SKM-1 cells and also alters the level of inflammations in the bone marrow microenvironment. It suggests that the PTPN6 gene acts as a tumor suppressor in myelodysplastic syndrome cells, influencing hematopoietic cell apoptosis, erythroid differentiation, and inflammations. This provides a reliable experimental basis for further in-depth studies on the mechanism of PTPN6 in MDS and related pharmacological research.
Transient Receptor Potential Vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) is a nonselective cation channel expressed by pain-sensing neurons and has been an attractive target for the development of drugs to treat pain. Recently, Src homology region two domain-containing phosphatase-1 (SHP-1, encoded by Ptpn6) was shown to dephosphorylate TRPV1 in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons, which was linked with alleviating different pain phenotypes. These previous studies were performed in male rodents only and did not directly investigate the role of SHP-1 in TRPV-1 mediated sensitization. Therefore, our goal was to determine the impact of Ptpn6 overexpression on TRPV1-mediated neuronal responses and capsaicin-induced pain behavior in mice of both sexes. Twelve-week-old male and female mice overexpressing Ptpn6 (Shp1-Tg) and their wild type (WT) littermates were used. Ptpn6 overexpression was confirmed in the DRG of Shp1-Tg mice by RNA in situ hybridization and RT-qPCR. Trpv1 and Ptpn6 were found to be co-expressed in DRG sensory neurons in both genotypes. Functionally, this overexpression resulted in lower magnitude intracellular calcium responses to 200 nM capsaicin stimulation in DRG cultures from Shp1-Tg mice compared to WTs. In vivo, we tested the effects of Ptpn6 overexpression on capsaicin-induced pain through a model of capsaicin footpad injection. While capsaicin injection evoked nocifensive behavior (paw licking) and paw swelling in both genotypes and sexes, only WT mice developed mechanical allodynia after capsaicin injection. We observed similar level of TRPV1 protein expression in the DRG of both genotypes, however, a higher amount of tyrosine phosphorylated TRPV1 was detected in WT DRG. These experiments suggest that, while SHP-1 does not mediate the acute swelling and nocifensive behavior induced by capsaicin, it does mediate a protective effect against capsaicin-induced mechanical allodynia in both sexes. The protective effect of SHP-1 might be mediated by TRPV1 dephosphorylation in capsaicin-sensitive sensory neurons of the DRG.
Human T-cell Lymphotropic virus type 1 (HTLV-1) belongs to retroviridae which is connected to two major diseases, including HTLV-1-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) and Adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATLL). This study aims to investigate the mRNA expressions of key proteins correlated to T-cell activation in asymptomatic carriers (ACs) HTLV-1 infected patients, shedding light on early molecular events and T-cell activation following HTLV-1 infection.The study involved 40 participants, including 20 ACs and 20 healthy subjects. Blood samples were collected, ELISA assessment for screening and confirmation with PCR for Trans-activating transcriptional regulatory protein (Tax) and HTLV-1 basic leucine zipper factor (HBZ) of the HTLV-1 were done. mRNA expressions of C-terminal Src kinase (CSK), Glycogen Synthase Kinase-3 Beta (GSK3β), Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase 14 (MAP3K14 or NIK), Phospholipase C Gamma-1 (PLCG1), Protein Tyrosine Phosphatase non-Receptor Type 6 (PTPN6) and Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase Kinase Kinase-7 (SLP-76) and Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase14 (MAP3K7 or TAK1) were assayed using RT-qPCR. Statistical analyses were performed using PRISM and SPSS software.While there were no significant upregulation in CSK and PTPN6 in ACs compared to healthy individuals, expression levels of GSK3β, MAP3K14, PLCG1, SLP-76, and TAK1 were significantly higher in ACs compared to healthy subjects which directly contributes to T-cell activation in the HTLV-1 ACs.HTLV-1 infection induces differential mRNA expressions in key proteins associated with T-cell activation. mRNAs related to T-cell activation showed significant upregulation compared to PTPN6 and CSK which contributed to T-cell regulation. Understanding these early molecular events in ACs may provide potential markers for disease progression and identify therapeutic targets for controlling viral replication and mitigating associated diseases. The study contributes novel insights to the limited literature on T-cell activation and HTLV-1 pathogenesis.© 2024. The Author(s).
Human babesiosis is an emerging disease in North America caused by the red blood cell (RBC)-infecting parasite Babesia microti. Despite a rise in clinical cases in recent years, the pathogenesis and host immune response to B. microti infection remain unclear. CD47 is a 'marker of self' transmembrane glycoprotein expressed on cell membranes that inhibits phagocytosis through interactions with macrophage signal-regulatory protein alpha (SIRPα). We posit that disruption of CD47-SIRPα signalling will induce macrophage uptake of Babesia-infected RBCs and reduce parasitaemia in susceptible hosts. To evaluate this, we compared the in vivo clearance of B. microti in CD47 knockout (CD47-/-) mice and wild-type C57BL/6J mice. Our results showed pronounced differences in infection kinetics between the two mouse strains. C57BL/6J mice showed steadily increasing parasitaemia that peaked at an average of 12%, whereas CD47-/- mice exhibited parasitaemia that never exceeded 1.5% throughout infection. Parasitaemia became undetectable by Day 21 in C57BL/6J and by Day 16 in CD47-/- mice, indicating resolution of infection. These results imply that, in the absence of CD47, growth of B. microti is diminished due to more efficient phagocytosis of infected RBCs by macrophages. We propose that CD47-SIRPα signalling plays a key role in the innate response to Babesia and suggest CD47 modulation as a new therapeutic target for the treatment of babesiosis.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Ontorpacept, a recombinant signal regulatory protein alpha (SIRPα)-blocking fusion protein, has antitumour activity by disrupting CD47-SIRPα signalling. This Phase 1/2 study examined ontorpacept with doxorubicin in patients with leiomyosarcoma.Eligible patients were ≥18 years with metastatic or locally advanced high-grade soft-tissue sarcomas (high-grade leiomyosarcoma in Phase 2). In Phase 1, patients received escalating doses of ontorpacept plus doxorubicin. Phase 2 dose expansion evaluated ontorpacept doses 0.2, 1.0, and 2.0 mg/kg plus doxorubicin. The primary endpoints were safety (Phase 1); and objective response rate (ORR) (Phase 1/2).Seventy-six patients were enrolled (Phase 1, n = 9; Phase 2, n = 67). No dose-limiting toxicities occurred in Phase 1. The most common treatment-related adverse events were neutrophil count decreased/neutropenia (grade ≥3 in 66% of patients). In Phase 1, one patient receiving ontorpacept 2.0 mg/kg had a confirmed partial response. In Phase 2, six patients receiving ontorpacept 0.2 mg/kg (ORR, 18.8%; 95% CI, 7.2-36.4) and one patient receiving 2.0 mg/kg (ORR, 4.5%; 95% CI, 0.1-22.8) had confirmed partial responses.This first study of CD47 inhibition with chemotherapy in leiomyosarcomas shows manageable safety, supporting further investigation of ontorpacept dosing and schedule, in combination with doxorubicin and as monotherapy.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42500710 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42494867 is a review article
The rapid expansion of plasma proteomic data and protein quantitative trait loci (pQTLs) provides an opportunity to identify genes that confer disease risk through their effect on plasma protein abundance. We conducted an Alzheimer's disease (AD) proteome-wide association study (PWAS) integrating publicly available plasma cis-pQTL data (1348 European American and 1385 African American genetically determined protein models) with AD dementia GWAS summary statistics. Whereas the African American PWAS identified one candidate [apolipoprotein E (APOE)] and multiple suggestive genes, the European American PWAS identified 18 genes with putative causal relationships with AD through cis regulation of plasma protein abundance. Thirteen of these candidate genes were additionally supported by colocalization and complementary causal-inference analyses such as summary data-based Mendelian randomization. Four of these proteins were not previously detected in AD GWAS [complement decay-accelerating factor (CD55), leukocyte immunoglobulin-like receptor B1 (LILRB1), scavenger receptor class A member 5 (SCARA5), and signal regulatory protein alpha (SIRPA)]. A subset of candidate gene-associated proteins was associated with 8- and 20-year dementia risk, markers of AD pathology, and a CSF proteomic signature enriched for immune and metabolic processes. Putative causal proteins were enriched for adaptive (lymphocyte-mediated) immunity and, compared with GWAS candidates, showed less enrichment for synaptic and amyloid regulatory processes. LILRB1 and SIRPA, two immunoregulatory proteins not previously implicated in AD GWAS, showed the strongest mechanistic link to AD in the European American PWAS. These results shed additional light on AD etiology and enable the prioritization of potential AD therapeutic targets in peripheral circulation.
Enhancing myeloid effector cell recruitment may improve immunotherapy by monoclonal antibodies, including those against acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). To assess the expression of target antigens in B-cell ALL (B-ALL), we compared mRNA profiling of 559 patient leukemia samples across 18 molecular subtypes with that of representative cell lines. The latter served as target cells to compare human immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1) or IgA2 variants against CD19, CD20, or CD38 in antibody-dependent cellular phagocytosis (ADCP) by macrophages and antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC) by polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMN). Interestingly, antibodies against broadly expressed CD19 were negligibly effective in mediating ADCP or ADCC. Antibodies against CD20 or CD38, the former variably expressed across subtypes, triggered ADCP by macrophages both as IgG1 and IgA2. However, PMN-mediated ADCC against CD20 or CD38 was only observed with IgA2 variants but not with respective IgG1 antibodies. Blocking the myeloid checkpoint CD47/signal regulatory protein α (SIRPα) enhanced ADCP and ADCC by IgA2 antibodies against CD20 and CD38 but not CD19. Both CD47 and its enzymatic modifier glutaminyl-peptide cyclotransferase-like protein (QPCTL), which can be inhibited by small molecules, were broadly expressed across B-ALL subtypes. QPCTL catalyzes the formation of an N-terminal pyroglutamic acid on CD47, which is directly involved in CD47/SIRPα interactions as shown by novel engineered CD47 variants. Importantly, the combination of anti-CD38 IgA2 and CD47 blockade was effective against xenografted B-ALL in human FcαRI (CD89) transgenic NXG mice. Together, these studies support combining anti-CD38 IgA2 with CD47 interference to improve myeloid effector cell recruitment for B-ALL immunotherapy.© 2026 American Society of Hematology. Published by Elsevier Inc. Licensed under Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International (CC BY-NC-ND 4.0), permitting only noncommercial, nonderivative use with attribution. All other rights reserved.
Bispecific antibodies (BsAbs) represent a growing class of cancer immunotherapeutics, yet their wider adoption remains limited by complex recombinant production and limited manufacturing efficiency. Here, we report a chemically assembled macrophage-engaging glypican-3 × signal regulatory protein-α (SIRP-α) bispecific antibody for the treatment of liver cancer. Using our bifunctional linker, glypican-3-binding peptide dimers were conjugated to a native anti-SIRP-α IgG via a rapid one-pot, two-step process, yielding a novel dendritic bispecific antibody (dBsAb). Such a construct simultaneously targets glypican-3-positive hepatocellular carcinoma cells and blocks the CD47-SIRP-α axis, thereby promoting macrophage engagement and phagocytosis. In vitro studies showed substantially enhanced macrophage adhesion and tumor cell clearance compared with the monoclonal antibody. In an in vivo experiment, dBsAb demonstrated a 68% reduction in tumor growth, with increased macrophage infiltration, M1 polarization, and elevated antigen presentation without observable systemic toxicity. This chemical assembly approach offers a practical alternative to recombinant methods for constructing bispecific antibodies and may facilitate the development of macrophage-directed immunotherapies.© 2026 The Author(s). MedComm published by Sichuan International Medical Exchange & Promotion Association (SCIMEA) and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
The immunodeficient mouse model offers a platform for evaluating therapeutic options in preclinical cancer research by enabling the growth of human xenografts. We previously developed BALB/c Rag2nullJak3null (BRJ), an immunodeficient mouse model useful for cancer studies. However, susceptibility to xenograft acceptance can be increased through signal regulatory protein alpha (SIRPα)-CD47 signaling, also known as the "don't eat me" signal. In this study, we generated BALB/c human-SIRPα BAC transgenic mice and crossed them with BRJ mice. The resulting human SIRPα-transgenic BRJ (BRJ-S) mice showed a significantly higher engraftment rate of human B-cell lymphoma than BRJ mice. Furthermore, we demonstrated better human tumor engraftment in BRJ-S mice by reducing phagocytosis. In summary, hSIRPα-transgenic BRJ mice (BRJ-S) serve as a promising immunodeficient model with enhanced capacity for human lymphoma engraftment. BRJ-S provides an advantageous and permissive model for xenografting and for studying cancer in research and drug development.© 2026. The Author(s).
SIRPα is a well-characterized inhibitory receptor on myeloid immune cells. However, human and mouse melanoma cells can also express high levels of SIRPα. Whether and how melanoma cell-intrinsic SIRPα contributes to tumor progression and anti-tumor immunity remains underexplored. Here, we identify a role of tumor cell-intrinsic SIRPα in suppressing immune recruitment and activation. SIRPα deletion in melanoma cells enhances tumor control and increases immune infiltration. Transcriptomic analyses reveal that loss of tumor cell-intrinsic SIRPα upregulates the chemokine CXCL10 in both human and mouse melanoma cells. Notably, Cxcl10 knockdown in SIRPα-deficient melanoma partially rescues tumor growth and reduces CD8+ T cell infiltration, mirroring the phenotype of SIRPα-expressing tumors and indicating that tumor cell-intrinsic SIRPα promotes immune evasion by suppressing Cxcl10-mediated T cell recruitment. Our study uncovers an unrecognized mechanism of SIRPα-mediated immune suppression and highlights SIRPα silencing as a potential therapeutic strategy to enhance immune infiltration and T cell-mediated tumor control across SIRPα-expressing cancers.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Microvascular inflammation (MVI) has long been considered a hallmark of antibody-mediated rejection (AMR). However, the 2022 Banff classification introduced isolated MVI (iMVI; MVI+/donor-specific antibody [DSA]-/C4d-) as a distinct phenotype. The biological characteristics and clinical significance of iMVI remain incompletely understood.Kidney transplant recipients who underwent allograft biopsy between 2013 and 2024 were classified into iMVI, AMR (MVI+/DSA+/C4d+), and acute tubular injury (ATI; MVI-/DSA-/C4d-). After propensity score matching, 80 patients (30 iMVI, 30 AMR, and 20 ATI) compromised the main cohort. An independent validation cohort (n = 88; 26 iMVI, 26 AMR, 26 T-cell-mediated rejection, 10 ATI) was additionally assembled. Serum proteomic profiling was performed using a proximity extension assay.iMVI exhibited a distinct proteomic profile enriched for innate and cytotoxic immune activation proteins, including tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily member 9, programmed death-ligand 1, interleukin-15 receptor subunit alpha, fibroblast growth factor 19, C-X3-C motif chemokine ligand 1, C-C motif chemokine ligand 23, signaling lymphocytic activation molecule family member 1, and interleukin-10 receptor subunit beta with enrichment of natural killer cell differentiation and leukocyte migration pathway. In contrast, AMR showed higher expression of adaptive and humoral immune mediators, including interleukin-33, interleukin-2, TNF-related apoptosis-inducing ligand, and interleukin-2 receptor subunit beta with enrichment of immunoglobulin production and interferon-γ-related adaptive immune pathways. Protein risk scores showed strong discriminative performance in the main cohort (area under the curve, 0.856 for iMVI; 0.879 for AMR) and retained significant ability in the validation cohort (area under the curve, 0.708 and 0.689, respectively). Several iMVI-enriched proteins were significantly associated with increased risk of death-censored graft loss.iMVI is characterized by dominant innate and cytotoxic immune activation distinct from AMR and is associated with adverse graft outcomes, supporting its recognition as a clinically meaningful phenotype beyond conventional AMR.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
High-density lipoprotein (HDL) functionality is emerging as a novel predictor of disease outcomes. The role of HDL functionality in patients with diabetes-related amputations is unexplored. We aimed to assess changes in HDL functionality in people with diabetes who had minor amputations and to determine the relationship between HDL functionality and wound closure (WC).Thirty patients with diabetes mellitus (DM) and 11 without (non-DM) undergoing minor amputations were recruited. Blood was collected at baseline (DM, n = 30; non-DM, n = 11), 1 month (DM, n = 22; non-DM, n = 5), and 6 months (DM, n = 14; non-DM, n = 3) postamputation and from 20 healthy gender- and age-matched control participants. HDL was isolated from plasma and functionality markers of macrophage cholesterol efflux, and anti-inflammatory and proangiogenic capacities in endothelial cells were assessed. The study adhered to Strengthening the Reporting of Observational Studies in Epidemiology (STROBE) guidelines.HDL-cholesterol (HDL-c) levels positively correlated with WC (r = 0.44, p < 0.05). Cholesterol efflux capacity of DM HDL was reduced 1-month postamputation (-44% vs. non-DM HDL, d = -1.5, p < 0.05). Following inflammatory stimulation, DM HDL-treated cells had elevated levels of C-X3-C motif chemokine ligand 1 (+92%, d = 0.9), C-C motif chemokine ligand 2 (+49%, d = 0.8), vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 (+67%, d = 0.9), and intracellular adhesion molecule 1 (+58%, d = 0.9) (vs. non-DM HDL, p < 0.05). The capacity of endothelial cells to form tubules reduced linearly with time following DM HDL treatment (p < 0.05), concomitant with reduced vascular endothelial growth factor A (-47% vs. non-DM HDL, d = -1.2, p < 0.05). Endothelial cells treated with HDL from participants with delayed WC (<50%, 1-month postamputation) exhibited increased v-rel avian reticuloendotheliosis viral oncogene homolog A (RELA) expression (+52%, d = 1.2, p < 0.05). The impairment of HDL functionality in DM was concomitant with reduced apolipoprotein AI (-34%, d = 1.2) and paraoxonase 1 (-32%, d = -1.3, vs. non-DM, p < 0.05) protein in HDL 1-month postamputation.An HDL panel, including HDL-c and HDL functionality and composition, could be used in early screening to identify patients who may benefit from early therapeutic intervention, guiding wound care management.Impaired HDL functionality, mediated through changes in HDL composition, may contribute to delayed wound healing.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41805218 is a review article
Soluble Tim-3 (sTim-3) has been implicated in primary biliary cholangitis (PBC), an autoimmune liver disease, though its clinical significance remains unclear. This study aimed to evaluate the associations between sTim-3, Galectin-9, and cytokines in PBC, as well as their potential prognostic utility.A total of 55 PBC patients were enrolled (45 without overlapping conditions) and serum levels of sTim-3, Galectin-9, and 18 cytokines/chemokines were measured. Disease severity was assessed using the model for end-stage liver disease (MELD), MELD-Na, and Mayo risk score (MRS) 1994, alongside fibrosis-4 (FIB-4) index and monocyte-lymphocyte ratio (MLR). Patients were stratified by fibrosis stage, cirrhosis status, Child-Pugh score, and treatment duration, with intergroup parameter comparisons performed. The least absolute shrinkage and selection operator regression identified potential risk factors for MRS1994, followed by multivariate linear regression analysis.Compared to healthy controls, PBC patients exhibited elevated sTim-3 and reduced Galectin-9, though neither biomarker cor related with clinical parameters. Advanced disease stages were associated with increased MLR, interferon-gamma (IFN-γ), interleukin (IL)-6, IL-8, C-C motif chemokine ligand 3 (CCL3), CCL20, and C-X3-C motif chemokine ligand 1 (CX3CL1). The MELD/MELD-Na scores strongly correlated with IL-6, TNF-α, IFN-γ, CCL3, and CCL20, while IL-6 and CX3CL1 linked to FIB-4 index. Multivariate analysis identi fied MLR, albumin/globulin (A/G) ratio, TNF-α, IL-6, and CX3CL1 as independent predictors of MRS1994.Although sTim-3 and Galectin-9 dysregulation lacked direct clinical relevance, MLR, A/G ratio, cirrhosis status, and inflam matory markers (TNF-α, IL-6, CX3CL1) emerged as robust predictors of disease severity (MELD) and prognosis (MRS1994), highlighting their potential for non-invasive risk stratification in PBC.   Cite this article as: Xu J, Ma H, Dang F, et al. Elevated serum soluble tim-3 in primary biliary cholangitis: lack of correlation with cytokines, chemokines, and clinical parameters. Turk J Gastroenterol. 2026;37(2):196-207.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41669249 is a review article
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by amyloid-beta plaques, tau tangles, and neuroinflammation. C-X3-C motif chemokine ligand 1 (CX3CL1, also known as fractalkine), a neuroimmune chemokine implicated in AD pathogenesis, shows inconsistent alterations in plasma/serum across studies. Specifically examining age-dependency and diagnostic utility, we investigated plasma CX3CL1 levels across the cognitive continuum (cognitively normal [CN], amnestic mild cognitive impairment [aMCI], AD) in a Chinese cohort.A total of 443 participants, including 130 patients with AD, 72 patients with aMCI, and 99 age-and sex-matched CN controls, as well as a cohort of 142 CN subjects of different ages, were enrolled from Chongqing General Hospital. Plasma CX3CL1 levels were determined using Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA). Apolipoprotein E genotypes (APOE) were performed. The correlations between Plasma CX3CL1 levels and cognition test scores or age were analyzed. The optimal diagnostic sensitivity and specificity were determined using receiver operating characteristic curve analysis.Plasma CX3CL1 levels significantly increased with age in CN individuals. No significant sex difference was found. Plasma CX3CL1 levels did not differ significantly between APOE ε4 carriers and non-carriers. Stepwise elevation across continuum: CX3CL1 levels showed a significant stepwise increase: CN controls (1.73 ± 0.51 ng/mL) < aMCI (2.40 ± 1.06 ng/mL) < AD (4.15 ± 1.24 ng/mL) (p < 0.001 between all groups). This pattern persisted in both male and female subgroups, between the AD group and the aMCI group, between the AD group and the CN control group (p < 0.001), between the aMCI group and the CN control group, and between the male and female subgroups (p < 0.05). CX3CL1 levels negatively correlated with Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) scores and positively correlated with age.Plasma CX3CL1 levels exhibit a significant age-dependent increase in cognitively normal individuals, peak in midlife (40-49 years), and demonstrate a stepwise elevation across the AD continuum (CN → aMCI → AD). Strong inverse correlations with cognitive scores in disease groups and high diagnostic accuracy for AD, particularly against CN, support its role as a biomarker reflecting both physiological aging and AD-related pathological decline. Its regulation appears independent of APOE ε4 status. The midlife peak suggests potential relevance for preclinical processes, warranting further investigation of CX3CL1 as a biomarker and therapeutic target.© 2026 The Author(s). Annals of Clinical and Translational Neurology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Neurological Association.
This study aims to investigate the role of C-X3-C motif chemokine ligand 1 (CX3CL1) in the pathogenesis of glucocorticoid-induced osteonecrosis of the femoral head (ONFH), particularly focusing on its impact on macrophage polarization and bone cell function. CX3CL1 was upregulated in the femoral head of mice with methylprednisolone (MPS)-induced osteonecrosis. CX3CL1 knockout in mice reduced improved bone morphology while reducing M1 polarization in femoral head tissues, whereas CX3CL1 knock-in led to inverse trends. In vitro, CX3CL1 knockdown in MPS-challenged MLOY4 cells enhanced cell viability and reduced M1 skewing and migration of the co-cultured RAW264.7 macrophages. The m6A modification in tissues and cells was increased following MPS challenge. AlkB homolog 5 (ALKBH5), an RNA demethylase, was found to modulate m6A demethylation of CX3CL1 and enhance its RNA stability. Inhibiting ALKBH5 levels using Indole-2,3-dione-5-carbaldehyde substantially reduced CX3CL1 levels and alleviated M1 polarization of macrophages, thus improving bone function in MPS-challenged mice. In conclusion, this study suggests that CX3CL1, upregulated upon m6A demethylation, impairs bone function in glucocorticoid-induced ONFH by recruiting and promoting pro-inflammatory skewing of macrophages. Targeting ALKBH5 or CX3CL1 may represent promising strategies for managing glucocorticoid-induced ONFH.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Objectives: The study aim was to investigate the effects of extracellular vesicles (EVs) derived miR-128-3p on renal inflammation using a rat periodontitis model. Methods: Ten-week-old male Wistar rats were divided into two groups: a control (n = 8) and a lipopolysaccharides (LPS) group (n = 8). The LPS group received LPS (Porphyromonas gingivalis) injection in the gingiva for 7 days. At the end of the experiment, plasma, gingival tissue, and kidney samples were collected. Hematoxylin and eosin staining was performed to evaluate the glomerular tissue injury score. Bioinformatic analysis was conducted to identify potential target genes of miR-128-3p. The reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction was performed to evaluate miR-128-3p, inflammatory, pro-inflammatory cytokine, chemokine and predicting gene's expression. The control and LPS groups were compared using Welch's t-test. p-values < 0.05 were considered to indicate statistical significance. Results: The kidney glomerular tissue injury score was significantly higher in the LPS than in the control group. miR-128-3p expression in the LPS group was significantly higher in the gingival tissue and plasma. mRNAs (interleukin [IL]-1β, tumor necrosis factor [TNF]-α, C-X3-C motif chemokine ligand 1 [CX3CL1], and C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 7 [CXCL7]) expression was higher in the kidney of the LPS group. The potential target genes of activin A receptor type I (Acvr1), ribosomal protein S6 kinase B1 (Rps6kb1), and transforming growth factor beta receptor type 1 (Tgfbr1) were significantly lower in the kidneys of the LPS group. Conclusions: EVs-derived miR-128-3p in LPS induced periodontitis may cause kidney inflammation which may be mediated by, Rps6kb1, Tgfbr1, and Acvr1.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41439139 is a review article
The activation of the NOD-, LRR- and pyrin domain-containing protein 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome and associated immune dysregulation is one of the key pathological processes preceding and accompanying α-synuclein pathology, neuronal damage, and cell death in Parkinson's disease (PD). Biomarkers indicative of ongoing immune dysregulation could potentially serve as early indicators of disease activity and may support the development of novel immunomodulatory therapies.We performed a meta-analysis on 17 biomarkers related to specific components of the neuroinflammatory response in the cerebrospinal fluid of people with PD (PwP) and controls. We included studies that measured biomarkers related to NLRP3 inflammasome priming and activation (interleukin [IL]-1β, IL-18, IL-6, C-reactive protein, tumor necrosis factor [TNF]-α); reactive glial cells (soluble triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2, chitinase 3-like-protein 1, glial fibrillary acidic protein, and s100); neurodegeneration (neurofilament light chain [NfL]); and other inflammatory mediators (interferon-ɣ, IL-2, IL-4, IL-8, IL-10, monocyte chemoattractant protein-1, chemokine C-X3-C motif chemokine ligand 1).Random-effects meta-analyses show markers downstream of the NLRP3 inflammasome priming and activation (IL-1β, IL-6, TNF-α), the astrocytic marker s100 calcium-binding protein B and neuroaxonal damage marker NfL are significantly increased in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of PwP.The elevation in key downstream and general inflammatory mediators results is consistent with the hypothesized involvement of the NLRP3 inflammasome pathway and neurodegeneration in PD pathogenesis. These results highlight the potential use of CSF inflammatory markers and support further investigation into immunomodulatory strategies for PD. © 2025 The Author(s). Movement Disorders published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.© 2025 The Author(s). Movement Disorders published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.
This study aims to investigate the effect and mechanism of baicalein in improving alveolar epithelial cell senescence. A cellular model of alveolar epithelial cell senescence induced by transforming growth factor-β1(TGF-β1) was established. Cells were randomly divided into control group, model group, baicalein group, small interfering RNA(siRNA) targeting Smad family member 2(Smad2) group, siRNA targeting Smad3 group, and baicalein + Smad3 plasmid group. Western blot was employed to detect the protein expression level of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1(PAI-1), a marker protein of alveolar epithelial cell senescence. Senescence-associated β-galactosidase(SA-β-gal) staining was used to measure the percentage of SA-β-gal-positive cells. The results show that baicalein can significantly inhibit the protein expression of PAI-1 in TGF-β1-induced alveolar epithelial cells and markedly reduce the percentage of SA-β-gal-positive cells in TGF-β1-induced alveolar epithelial cells. Baicalein can also significantly decrease the phosphorylation levels of Smad2 protein and Smad3 protein in TGF-β1-induced alveolar epithelial cells. Knockdown of Smad2 does not affect the protein expression level of PAI-1 in TGF-β1-induced alveolar epithelial cells, nor does it alter the percentage of SA-β-gal-positive cells in TGF-β1-induced alveolar epithelial cells. In contrast, knockdown of Smad3 can significantly downregulate the protein expression level of PAI-1 and reduce the percentage of SA-β-gal-positive cells in TGF-β1-induced alveolar epithelial cells. Overexpression of Smad3 can notably reverse the inhibitory effects of baicalein on PAI-1 protein expression and the percentage of SA-β-gal-positive cells in TGF-β1-induced alveolar epithelial cells. In conclusion, baicalein improves alveolar epithelial cell senescence by downregulating the TGF-β1/Smad3 signaling, but this effect might be independent of Smad2 signaling.
Background and Objectives: The aim of this study is to evaluate the effects of oridonin on a cisplatin-induced ovarian injury rat model. Materials and Methods: Thirty female rats were divided into three groups. Group 1: control; group 2: cisplatin; group 3: cisplatin plus oridonin group. In groups 2 and 3, the rats were injected with 2.5 mg/kg (twice weekly) cisplatin intraperitoneally (i.p.) for 4 weeks. In Group 3, rats received oridonin (10 mg/kg/day, i.p.). At the end of the study, the ovaries were removed in all groups. Histopathologic analysis and follicle counting were performed. Plasma anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH), malondialdehyde (MDA), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) levels were measured, while ovarian transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1), SMAD family member 3 (SMAD3), and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-1 (TIMP-1) levels were evaluated. Results: Oridonin alleviated cisplatin-induced histopathological changes in the ovarian tissue. The numbers of primordial, primary, secondary, and tertiary follicles were significantly decreased, while ovarian fibrosis was significantly increased in Group 2 compared with Group 1 (p < 0.05). Co-treatment with oridonin statistically significantly increased follicle counts at all developmental stages and markedly reduced ovarian fibrosis in group 2 compared with group 3. Compared with Group 1, AMH decreased, whereas MDA, TNF-α, TGF-β1, SMAD3, and TIMP-1 increased in Group 2 (p < 0.001); these alterations were markedly attenuated in Group 3. Conclusions: These findings suggest that oridonin may exert protective effects against cisplatin-induced ovarian injury.
Astrocyte reactivity critically shapes neuroinflammatory outcomes after ischemic stroke, yet the upstream regulators governing astrocyte state transitions remain incompletely defined. Here, we identify the immunoproteasome subunit low molecular weight protein 2 (LMP2) as an important modulator of astrocyte functional remodeling following cerebral ischemia/reperfusion (I/R). Using global and astrocyte-specific knockout models, we demonstrate that LMP2 deficiency markedly reduces infarct volume, attenuates neuroinflammation, and improves neurological and cognitive outcomes. Mechanistically, LMP2 coordinately modulates inflammatory and reparative signaling networks by promoting nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB)-dependent inflammatory activation while constraining transforming growth factor-β1(TGF-β1)/SMAD family member 3 (Smad3)-associated reparative responses, thereby biasing astrocyte reactive states toward more inflammatory and maladaptive programs along the inflammatory-reparative continuum. Conversely, LMP2 inhibition promoted more adaptive and neuroprotective astrocyte-associated programs, enhanced neurotrophic support, and limited apoptosis under ischemic stress. Integrative transcriptomic and single-cell analyses further revealed that astrocyte responses exist along a continuum of functional states, with LMP2 influencing the distribution of astrocyte states rather than acting as a binary switch. Collectively, these findings uncover a previously unrecognized immunoproteasome-astrocyte regulatory axis involved in neuroinflammatory remodeling and highlight LMP2 as a promising target for precision modulation of post-ischemic brain injury.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Despite significant advances in identifying susceptibility genes for bronchial asthma (BA), the immunogenetic and other molecular mechanisms underlying disease risk and progression remain incompletely understood. This study aimed to investigate the association between two common single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), rs17293632 and rs2033784, located within the SMAD3 (SMAD family member 3) gene-previously identified in genome-wide association studies-and susceptibility to atopic asthma and allergen sensitivity in Russian children.This study included DNA samples from 999 unrelated children from the Kursk region, comprising 526 patients with BA (316 boys and 210 girls) and 473 healthy children. SNP genotyping was performed using the MassARRAY-4 system.Both SNPs were associated with an increased risk of BA under the additive genetic model (p ≤ 0.001). In the sex-stratified analysis, the rs17293632 (odds ratio (OR) = 1.79, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.15-2.77; p = 9.0 × 10-4) and rs2033784 (OR = 1.80, 95% CI: 1.28-2.52; p = 6.0 × 10-4) variants were exclusively associated with asthma risk among girls, whereas no significant associations were observed in boys. The rs17293632T-rs2033784G haplotype was associated with an increased risk of asthma in girls (OR = 2.01, 95% CI: 1.38-2.92, p = 3.0 × 10-4). Notably, SMAD3 gene polymorphisms were associated with an increased risk of asthma exclusively among children living in urban environments (p ≤ 0.0001). Polymorphisms in the SMAD3 gene have also been linked to specific allergies, including those to horsehair, chicken eggs, beef, wheat, oatmeal, barley, and foxtail.The present study of Russian children confirmed that the rs17293632 and rs2033784 polymorphisms of the SMAD3 gene are significant genetic markers associated with BA and allergies. However, an association between these SMAD3 variants and asthma was observed only among girls, marking the first time this association has been reported. Further research is necessary to determine whether the SMAD3 gene constitutes a viable therapeutic target for treating asthma and allergic diseases.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
In this study, we explored the therapeutic effects and mechanisms of baicalin (BA) in a dibutyltin dichloride (DBTC)-induced chronic pancreatitis (CP) rat model using metabolomics and network pharmacology. The results showed that BA significantly reduced inflammatory cell infiltration and fibrosis in pancreatic tissues, lowered serum levels of interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-6, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), amylase (AMS), and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and thereby decreased expression of alpha-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA) and fibronectin (FN) in pancreatic tissues. Metabolomic analyses revealed that BA influences multiple metabolic pathways, including glycerophospholipid and arachidonic acid metabolism, in serum and urine. Network pharmacology identified key targets, such as phospholipase A2 group IVA (PLA2G4A) and transient receptor potential vanilloid 4 (TRPV4), which are primarily involved in IL-17 signaling, as well as other pathways beyond inflammation. Further integrated analysis demonstrated that BA inhibits pancreatic stellate cell activation and reduces pancreatic fibrosis by regulating metabolites, such as arachidonic acid, that act on the PLA2G4A/TRPV4 and transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1)/SMAD family member 3 (SMAD3) pathways. Molecular docking studies confirmed that BA binds strongly to these targets. In summary, BA exerts anti-inflammatory and antifibrotic effects through multiple targets and pathways, thereby alleviating the pathological progression of CP.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
This study aimed to investigate the role of protein tyrosine kinase-like 7 (PTK7) in the progression of fibrosis of renal tubular epithelial cells and to elucidate its underlying molecular mechanisms, thereby evaluating the potential of PTK7 as a therapeutic target for renal fibrosis. Immunohistochemistry, Western blotting, and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) were performed to examine PTK7 expression in a mouse model of renal fibrosis. Public single-cell transcriptomic datasets were employed to analyze the expression distribution of PTK7 among different renal cell types. A stable PTK7-knockout transformed C3H mouse kidney-1 (TCMK-1) cell line was generated via clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats/CRISPR-associated protein 9 (CRISPR/Cas9), and following transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) stimulation, cellular morphological changes were observed. The expression levels of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT)-related proteins (E-cadherin and vimentin) and fibrosis-related proteins (α-SMA, fibronectin, and collagen I) were assessed. Cell proliferative activity and migratory capacity were evaluated by cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) and wound healing assays, respectively, and the phosphorylation levels of Smad family member 2 (Smad2)/Smad family member 3 (Smad3) were analyzed to explore the potential mechanisms. PTK7 expression was significantly upregulated in the kidney tissue of the mouse model and was highly expressed in renal tubular epithelial cells. PTK7 knockout suppressed TGF-β1-induced EMT progression and the expression of fibrosis-related proteins (P0.001), and it attenuated the migratory ability of renal tubular epithelial cells under TGF-β1 stimulation. From a mechanism perspective, PTK7 deficiency effectively inhibited TGF-β1-triggered activation of Smad2/Smad3 phosphorylation. PTK7 promotes the fibrosis of renal tubular epithelial cells through activation of the TGF-β1/Smad signaling pathway, and PTK7 knockout can effectively alleviate fibrosis-related phenotypes at the cellular level. This study provides experimental evidence for further exploration of PTK7 as a potential therapeutic target against renal fibrosis.
To investigate fibrosis-related gene expression profiles in benign ureteral strictures and their association with restenosis after ureteroplasty and to develop a predictive risk score model.A total of 100 patients with benign strictures who underwent ureteroplasty were included.Stenotic tissues were collected intraoperatively, and the expression levels of 15 fibrosis-related genes were determined by quantitative real-time PCR. According to whether restenosis occurred at 12 months postoperatively, the patients were assigned to stenotic group (n = 39) and non-stenotic group (n = 61). Independent predictors were identified using logistic regression, a risk score model was constructed and model performance was assessed using receiver operating characteristic curve, calibration curves and decision curve analysis (DCA). The restenosis-free rates of the risk groups were compared through Kaplan-Meier survival analysis, and internal validation was performed through Bootstrap resampling.High expression levels of type I collagen α1 chain (COL1A1), transforming growth factor-β1 (TGFB1), Snail family member 1 (SNAI1), SMAD family member 3 (SMAD3) and thrombospondin 2 (THBS2) genes were identified as independent risk factors for postoperative restenosis (all p < 0.05). Kaplan-Meier analysis revealed that the restenosis-free rate at 12 months was significantly lower in the high-risk group than in the low-risk group (51.02% vs. 70.59%, log-rank p = 0.007). The area under the curve (AUC) of the risk scoring model was 0.854 [95% confidence interval (CI): 0.772-0.973], with a sensitivity of 87.12% and specificity of 84.55%. Bootstrap internal validation yielded a corrected AUC of 0.848 (95% CI: 0.812-0.891), confirming the model's stability. The calibration curve demonstrated good agreement between predicted probabilities and observed outcomes (Hosmer-Lemeshow test, p > 0.05). DCA showed that the model provided a net clinical benefit across a wide range of threshold probabilities. Further analysis showed that the expression levels of the above five genes were significantly positively correlated with the pathological fibrosis grade of stenotic tissues (all p < 0.001).The high expression levels of COL1A1, TGFB1, SNAI1, SMAD3 and THBS2 in benign ureteral strictures is closely related to the degree of tissue fibrosis and postoperative restenosis. The risk scoring model based on these genes showed good predictive performance and can thus serve as useful tool for clinical individualised treatment and prognostic assessment.© 2026 The Author(s).
WNT2B is canonically characterized as a secreted WNT-family ligand, which is transported to the extracellular space via the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-Golgi pathway and binds to cell surface FZDs (frizzled class receptors) to trigger downstream signaling cascades. Here, we identify a previously unrecognized non-secretory intracellular function of WNT2B in impairing endosomal trafficking to inhibit macroautophagy/autophagy, as well as a non-canonical LC3B-II-dependent autophagic secretion mechanism for WNT2B. Specifically, the non-secretory intracellular pool of WNT2B via its conserved middle domain (MD) binds to the spectrin repeat domain (SRD) of WASHC5, competitively displacing WASHC1 and thereby disrupting WASH complex assembly and inhibiting WASHC1-mediated actin polymerization on early endosomes. This disruption impairs endosomal cargo trafficking, including the core autophagy protein ATG9A, leading to defective autophagy initiation and subsequent accumulation of pro-inflammatory and pro-fibrotic factors in fibroblasts. We validated this mechanism in vivo using a TNBS-induced mouse model of chronic colitis. Fibroblast-specific wnt2b deletion restores autophagy, reduces pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion, and ameliorates intestinal fibrosis. Consistently, in Crohn disease (CD) patient tissues, elevated WNT2B in fibrotic regions negatively correlates with autophagy activity, and positively correlates with pro-fibrotic phenotypes, and clinical disease severity. Moreover, we identify a novel LC3B-II-dependent autophagic secretion pathway for WNT2B, which is distinct from the conventional ER-to-Golgi-dependent protein secretion. Collectively, our study delineates a novel non-canonical WNT2B-WASH complex-ATG9A regulatory axis through which WNT2B impairs endosomal trafficking and disrupts autophagy, ultimately amplifying inflammation and fibrosis. This study suggests that WNT2B may serve as a promising therapeutic target for CD and autophagy-associated fibrotic disorders.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; AAV: adeno-associated virus; ACTA2: actin alpha 2, smooth muscle; ARPC2: actin related protein 2/3 complex subunit 2; ATG: autophagy related; CCN3: cellular communication network factor 3; CD: Crohn disease; CK666: 2-fluoro-N-[2-(2-methyl-1H-indol-3-yl)ethyl]benzamide; COL1A1: collagen type I alpha 1 chain; Co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CTNNB1: catenin beta 1; DBcAMP: dibutyryl cyclic adenosine monophosphate; DPT: dermatopontin; EEA1: early endosome antigen 1; EGFR: epidermal growth factor receptor; ELISA: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; ESCRT: endosomal sorting complexes required for transport; EV: extracellular vesicle; FRAP: fluorescence recovery after photobleaching; FL: full length; FZD: frizzled class receptor; GST: glutathione S-transferase; HIF: human intestinal fibroblast; HMGB1: high mobility group box 1; IKBKB: inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase subunit beta; IL6: interleukin 6; LDELS: LC3-dependent EV loading and secretion; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MD: middle domain; MEFs: mouse embryonic fibroblasts; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; MVB: multivesicular body; NFKB: nuclear factor kappa B; NFKBIA: NFKB inhibitor alpha; PDCD6IP: programmed cell death 6 interacting protein; PLA: proximity ligation assay; RELA/p65: RELA proto-oncogene, NF-kB subunit; SAFB: scaffold attachment factor B; SES-CD: Simple Endoscopic Score for Crohn disease; SIM: super-resolution structured illumination microscopy; SMAD3: SMAD family member 3; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; SRD: spectrin repeat domain; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TFRC: transferrin receptor; TGFB1: transforming growth factor beta 1; TGOLN2: trans-golgi network protein 2; TNBS: 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid; TNF: tumor necrosis factor; VCA: Verprolin homology, Central and Acidic; WASHC: WASH complex subunit; WLS: Wnt ligand secretion mediator; WCL: whole cell lysates; WNT: Wnt family member; WT, wild type.
Pulmonary fibrosis is characterized by persistent activation of lung fibroblasts and excessive extracellular matrix (ECM) deposition; however, the transcriptional mechanisms sustaining this activated state remain poorly understood. Given the established profibrotic role of zinc finger protein 469 (ZNF469) in other mesenchymal lineages, we investigated its function in lung fibroblasts using an integrated functional and transcriptomic approach. We found that ZNF469 depletion attenuated key features of fibroblast activation, including proliferation, migration, and contractile capacity, concomitantly reducing collagen production and deposition. Mechanistically, combined transcriptomic profiling and Cleavage Under Targets and Release Using Nuclease (CUT&RUN) assays revealed that ZNF469 modulates ECM-associated transcriptional regulation, demonstrating preferential occupancy at the promoters of key collagen genes, such as collagen type I alpha 1 chain (COL1A1) and collagen type III alpha 1 chain (COL3A1). Furthermore, we demonstrated that transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1) stimulated ZNF469 expression in a SMAD family member 3 (SMAD3)-dependent manner, with CUT&RUN further revealing SMAD3 occupancy at the ZNF469 promoter. Importantly, ZNF469 depletion blunted TGF-β1-induced collagen production, indicating that ZNF469 contributes to the profibrotic effects of the TGF-β1/SMAD3 axis. Finally, we underscored the clinical relevance of ZNF469 by analyzing bulk and single-cell RNA sequencing data from patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and systemic sclerosis. ZNF469 was found to be upregulated in fibrotic lung tissues, particularly within the activated fibroblast lineage, and correlated with key ECM gene signatures. Our findings collectively support a model wherein the TGF-β1/SMAD3/ZNF469 axis contributes significantly to ECM gene regulation and fibroblast activation, thereby positioning ZNF469 as a critical profibrotic factor and a promising therapeutic target in pulmonary fibrosis.
The cellular mechanisms governing the change from pulmonary nodules to early-stage lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) at single-cell resolution are not yet fully elucidated. In the present study, we employed single-nucleus RNA sequencing (snRNA-seq) on 44 pulmonary nodule and paired normal specimens to investigate this process. Within the epithelial compartment, alveolar type 2 (AT2) cells were categorized into high- and low-malignancy subclusters. Our differential expression analysis identified a significant upregulation of the transcription factor SMAD family member 3 (SMAD3) in the high-malignancy group, which was shown to enhance LUAD proliferation and migration. Mechanistically, intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM1) was established as a downstream target of SMAD3, playing a pivotal role in mediating intercellular crosstalk between malignant AT2 cells and lymphocytes. Specifically, the interaction between ICAM1 and immunosuppressive CD4+ T cells and immune-eliminating CD8+ T cells was found to dampen T cell-mediated antitumor response. In conclusion, these results reveal that the SMAD3-ICAM1 axis drives the malignant change from pulmonary nodules to early-stage LUAD, underscoring the potential of these molecules as biomarkers to inform diagnosis and surgical decision-making.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study adopted an integrated strategy combining serum transitional component screening, network pharmacology prediction, and animal experiment verification to systematically explore the core active components and mechanism of action of Yinxing Yangnao Formula(YYF) in the treatment of vascular dementia(VD), aiming to provide solid experimental evidence for the modernization of this classical TCM prescription. With the use of ultra-high performance liquid chromatography-Orbitrap high-resolution mass spectrometry(UPLC-Orbitrap-HRMS), a total of 97 chemical components were identified from the YYF extract by combining accurate mass-to-charge ratio, characteristic fragmentation ions of MS/MS, comparison with reference standards, and matching with literature databases. Furthermore, 27 serum transitional components were captured through the analysis of YYF-containing serum from rats, which were inferred as the key material basis for the in vivo pharmacodynamic effects of YYF. The potential targets of the serum transitional components were predicted using the SwissTargetPrediction database, and VD-related disease targets were screened from authoritative databases including GeneCard, OMIM, and GEO with the keyword dementia vascular. A total of 275 common targets were obtained with the Jvenn online tool. The &quot;drug-component-target-disease&quot; network was constructed using Cytoscape 3.9.1 software, and core active components such as isoscopoletin, jaceosidin, catalpol, senkyunolide F, and bilobalide were screened out. The protein-protein interaction(PPI) network was constructed via the STRING database, identifying key regulatory targets including the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase family, sarcoma, protein tyrosine phosphatase, non-receptor type 11, Janus kinase 2, and protein tyrosine kinase 2. Gene Ontology(GO) functional enrichment and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes(KEGG) pathway analysis revealed that the core targets were mainly enriched in biological processes such as oxidative stress, neurological function, and immune and inflammatory responses, involving phosphoinositide 3-kinase-protein kinase B(PI3K-Akt), mitogen-activated protein kinase(MAPK), and Janus kinase-signal transducer and activator of transcription 3(JAK-STAT3) signaling pathways. Molecular docking results showed that bilobalide had a good binding effect with core targets. Verification experiments on VD rat models demonstrated that YYF might exert the therapeutic effect by alleviating oxidative stress through modulating the serum levels of superoxide dismutase(SOD), glutathione peroxidase(GSH-Px), and malondialdehyde(MDA). This study preliminarily clarified the material basis, pharmacological effects, and underlying mechanism of YYF in the treatment of VD, providing a direction and basis for subsequent research on the complete regulatory chain of &quot;drug-target-pathway-phenotype&quot;.
Mutations in protein tyrosine phosphatase non-receptor type 11 (PTPN11) have been considered late acquired mutations in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) development. Using single-cell DNA sequencing, we found that PTPN11 mutations can occur as initiating events in some patients with AML when accompanied by strong oncogenic drivers, commonly NPM1 mutations. The resulting AML has a diverse set of variably differentiated myeloid cells with few myeloid cells that lack leukemic mutations. The role of Ptpn11 as a codriver was confirmed in a murine model that exhibits an AML phenotype with a comparable immune diversity that is serially engraftable and reconstituted from early precursor cells. Furthermore, lineage-negative bone marrow cells from these mice reconstitute the full diversity of mature myeloid cells, and these cells exhibit an altered cytokine response after physiologic stimulation. Our work highlights how PTPN11-mutated AML is derived from a multitude of codominant and late acquired aberrations that have a previously unrecognized differentiated myeloid clonal expansion potentially contributing to pathogenesis of the disease.
Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy (HCM) is a complex cardiac disorder marked by the thickening of the heart muscle.HCM and normal control cell lines were cultured in DMEM with 12.5% FBS and 1% penicillin-streptomycin at 37°C and 5% CO2. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified from GSE32453, GSE53408, and GSE113439 datasets using the limma package in R. Hub genes were determined through protein-protein interaction (PPI) network and Cytoscape analysis and validated via Reverse Transcription Quantitative Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-qPCR) and Western blot analysis. Gene enrichment, miRNA predictions, drug prediction, and molecular docking analyses were conducted for functional enrichment and to explore hub gene-associated drugs.To identify DEGs and hub genes implicated in HCM, we analyzed three Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) datasets (GSE32453, GSE53404, and GSE1134439), extracting the top 1000 DEGs. Venn analysis revealed 21 common down-regulated genes. PPI analysis identified these six as key hub genes, including Iron Response Element Binding Protein 2 (IREB2), Protein Tyrosine Phosphatase, Non-Receptor Type 11 (PTPN11), IQ Motif Containing GTPase Activating Protein 1 (IQGAP1), Phosphoglucomutase 2 (PGM2), DIS3 RNA Exonuclease 3' to 5' (DIS3), Glutamine-Fructose-6-Phosphate Transaminase 1 (GFPT1) in HCM patients. Gene enrichment analysis highlighted the involvement of these genes in cellular functions such as energy metabolism and growth factor signaling, suggesting their role in the disease's progression. Validation using an additional dataset (GSE36961) confirmed significant down-regulation of all hub genes in HCM samples, supported by Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve analysis that demonstrated their diagnostic potential. Furthermore, miRNA analysis identified six up-regulated miRNAs (miR-124, miR-29b, miR-330, miR-34a, miR-375, and miR-451) that likely contribute to the dysregulation of these hub genes. Drug prediction analysis identified various potential therapeutic compounds targeting these hub genes. Molecular docking revealed favorable binding affinities, supporting the therapeutic potential of these drugs in modulating hub gene activity.These findings demonstrate that HCM progression involves coordinated downregulation of hub genes and miRNA-mediated dysregulation of metabolic and signaling pathways. The integration of bioinformatics, validation assays, and drug docking suggests a strong translational potential for biomarker discovery and targeted therapy.Our findings suggest that IREB2, PTPN11, IQGAP1, PGM2, DIS3, and GFPT1 hub genes and their associated regulatory pathways may serve as biomarkers and therapeutic targets for HCM, potentially improving diagnosis and treatment strategies.© 2025 The Author(s). Published by Bentham Science Publisher.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41323424 is a review article
Epidemiological surveys have shown that the incidence of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and malignancies is rapidly increasing worldwide and has become a major disease that threatens human life. In this study, we quantitatively analyzed the proteome of tumor tissues and adjacent normal tissues from six patients withT2DM combined with colorectal cancer (CRC) and eight non-diabetic CRC, focusing on the effect of T2DM on tumor tissues. We analyzed the functional enrichment of differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) using clusterProfiler in R and the expression level of protein tyrosine phosphatase non-receptor type 11 (PTPN11) and other key proteins in the TIMER and GEPIA2 databases. The HPA database was used to validate PTPN11 protein expression. The correlation between PTPN11 expression and clinicopathological features was analyzed by UALCAN database. The impact of PTPN11 on clinical prognosis was evaluated utilizing Kaplan-Meier Plotter. The correlation between PTPN11 expression and tumor-infiltrated immune cells was investigated via TIMER and TISIDB databases. Gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) was performed to examined the pathway of PTPN11 enrichment in CRC using data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database. Furthermore, small interfering (si) RNA was used to knock down PTPN11 in CRC cell line SW480. Western blot analysis was used to detect PTPN11 expression in tissue samples or cells and the effect of PTPN11 knockdown on key proteins related to PI3K/AKT and cell cycle pathway in SW480 cells. Cell proliferation and wound healing assays were used to detect the effects of cell proliferation and migration after knockdown of PTPN11 or treatment with high glucose. We found that metabolic pathways such as oxidative phosphorylation, glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, and insulin secretion were significantly enriched in tumor tissues from diabetic patients compared to non-diabetic patients. In addition, PTPN11, a marker gene associated with T2DM and CRC, were mined in diabetic tumor tissues. PTPN11 showed high expression in diabetic tumor tissues compared to normal tissues. High PTPN11 expression predicted poor prognosis in CRC. PTPN11 expression was strongly associated with immune infiltrating cells in CRC. GSEA analysis revealed that PTPN11 was enriched in cancer-related pathways. Western blotting analysis indicated that PTPN11 knockdown reduced the protein levels of p-PI3K, p-AKT, CDK1 and CYCLIN D, without altering PI3K and AKT protein levels. Cell proliferation and wound healing data showed that PTPN11 and high glucose could increase the proliferation and migration ability. These findings showed that PTPN11 may be a potential key biomarker for CRC in patients with diabetes, which will provide new potential targets for future intervention of T2DM complicated with CRC.© 2024. The Author(s).
Mutations in protein tyrosine phosphatase non-receptor type 11 ( PTPN11 ) have been considered late acquired mutations in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) development. To interrogate the ontogeny of PTPN11 mutations, we utilized single-cell DNA sequencing and identified that PTPN11 mutations can occur as initiating events in some AML patients when accompanied by strong oncogenic drivers, commonly NPM1 mutations. The co-driver role of PTPN11 mutations was confirmed in a novel murine model that exhibits an AML phenotype with early expansion of a diverse set of variably differentiated myeloid cells that engrafted into immunodeficient and immunocompetent mice. This immune diversity was reconstituted from early precursor cells when engrafted into immunodeficient mice. Moreover, immune diversity was also observed in the blast component of patient samples with NPM1 and PTPN11 mutations, providing novel antigen targets for immune based approaches in this subset of AML that is resistant to multiple targeted therapies.
Early-life critical periods allow initial sensory experience to remodel brain circuitry so that synaptic connectivity can be optimized to environmental input. In the Drosophila juvenile brain, olfactory sensory neuron (OSN) synaptic glomeruli are pruned by glial phagocytosis in dose-dependent response to early odor experience during a well-defined critical period. Extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) separation of phases-based activity reporter of kinase (SPARK) biosensors reveal experience-dependent signaling in glia during this critical period. Glial ERK-SPARK signaling is depressed by removal of Draper receptors orchestrating glial phagocytosis. Cell-targeted genetic knockdown of glial ERK signaling reduces olfactory experience-dependent glial pruning of the OSN synaptic glomeruli in a dose-dependent mechanism. Noonan Syndrome is caused by gain-of-function mutations in protein tyrosine phosphatase non-receptor type 11 (PTPN11) inhibiting ERK signaling, and a glial-targeted patient-derived mutation increases experience-dependent glial ERK signaling and impairs experience-dependent glial pruning of the OSN synaptic glomeruli. We conclude that critical period experience drives glial ERK signaling that is required for dose-dependent pruning of brain synaptic glomeruli, and that altered glial ERK signaling impairs this critical period mechanism in a Noonan Syndrome disease model.Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
A 28-year-old man was diagnosed with acute myelomonocytic leukemia. He achieved complete remission (CR) after two cycles of induction therapy. However, after consolidation therapy, bone marrow aspiration performed to prepare for allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation revealed disease relapse. Companion diagnostics confirmed the presence of the FLT3-ITD mutation. The patient received gilteritinib monotherapy and achieved CR. Subsequently, he underwent unrelated allogeneic bone marrow transplantation. One year after transplantation, the patient relapsed, and gilteritinib was resumed. However, the leukemia progressed, and panel sequencing using a next-generation sequencer showed that the FLT3-ITD mutation disappeared. A mutation in PTPN11, which regulates the RAS/MAPK signaling pathway, was also detected. Gilteritinib was discontinued, and the patient achieved CR with salvage chemotherapy. He underwent related haploidentical peripheral blood stem cell transplantation but died of relapse. This was a case in which genetic analysis revealed clonal transition and acquisition of resistance to treatment.
Neuroinflammation is a key driver of neurodegenerative disease, however the tools available to model this disease biology at the systems level are lacking. We describe a translational drug discovery platform based on organotypic culture of murine cortical brain slices that recapitulate disease-relevant neuroinflammatory biology. After an acute injury response, the brain slices assume a chronic neuroinflammatory state marked by transcriptomic profiles indicative of activation of microglia and astrocytes and loss of neuronal function. Microglia are necessary for manifestation of this neuroinflammation, as depletion of microglia prior to isolation of the brain slices prevents both activation of astrocytes and robust loss of synaptic function genes. The transcriptomic pattern of neuroinflammation in the mouse platform is present in published datasets derived from patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Huntington's disease, and frontotemporal dementia. Pharmacological utility of the platform was validated by demonstrating reversal of microglial activation and the overall transcriptomic signature with transforming growth factor-β. Additional anti-inflammatory targets were screened and inhibitors of glucocorticoid receptors, COX-2, dihydrofolate reductase, and NLRP3 inflammasome all failed to reverse the neuroinflammatory signature. Bioinformatics analysis of the neuroinflammatory signature identified protein tyrosine phosphatase non-receptor type 11 (PTPN11/SHP2) as a potential target. Three structurally distinct inhibitors of PTPN11 (RMC-4550, TN0155, IACS-13909) reversed the neuroinflammatory disease signature. Collectively, these results highlight the utility of this novel neuroinflammatory platform for facilitating identification and validation of targets for neuroinflammatory neurodegenerative disease drug discovery.© 2024. The Author(s).
Pyroptosis plays a key role in the death of cells including cardiomyocytes, and it is associated with a variety of cardiovascular diseases. However, the role of pyroptosis-related genes (PRGs) in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is not well characterized. This study aimed to identify key biomarkers and explore the molecular mechanisms underlying the functions of the PRGs in HCM. The differentially expressed genes were identified by GEO2R, and the differentially expressed pyroptosis-related genes (DEPRGs) of HCM were identified by combining with PRGs. Enrichment analysis was performed using the "clusterProfiler" package of the R software. Protein-protein interactions (PPI) network analysis was performed using the STRING database, and hub genes were screened using cytoHubba. TF-miRNA coregulatory networks and protein-chemical interactions were analyzed using NetworkAnalyst. RT-PCR/WB was used for expression validation of HCM diagnostic markers. Quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and Western Blot (WB) were used to measure and compare the expression of the identified genes in the cardiac hypertrophy model and the control group. A total of 20 DEPRGs were identified, which primarily showed enrichment for the positive regulation of cytokine production, regulation of response to biotic stimulus, tumor necrosis factor production, and other biological processes. These processes primarily involved pathways related to Renin-angiotensin system, Adipocytokine signaling pathway and NF-kappa B signaling pathway. Then, a PPI network was constructed, and 8 hub genes were identified. After verification analysis, the finally identified HCM-related diagnostic markers were upregulated gene protein tyrosine phosphatase non-receptor type 11 (PTPN11), downregulated genes interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 3 (IRAK3), and annexin A2 (ANXA2). Further GSEA analysis revealed these 3 biomarkers primarily related to cardiac muscle contraction, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, fatty acid degradation and ECM - receptor interaction. Moreover, we also elucidated the interaction network of these biomarkers with the miRNA network and known compounds, respectively. RT-PCR/WB results indicated that PTPN11 expression was significantly increased, and IRAK3 and ANXA2 expressions were significantly decreased in HCM. This study identified PTPN11, IRAK3, and ANXA2 as pyroptosis-associated biomarkers of HCM, with the potential to reveal the development and pathogenesis of HCM and could be potential therapeutic targets.Copyright © 2024 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Proper steroid hormone synthesis is essential for maintaining fertility in female animals. Tribbles pseudokinase 1 (Trib1), a member of the Tribbles pseudokinase family, exerts its functions mainly through interacting with other molecules. Numerous studies have shown that Trib1 plays a central role in regulating cell proliferation. In mammals, the proliferation of granulosa cells (GCs) is a hallmark event in follicular development, which is essential for follicular maturation and successful ovulation. However, whether Trib1 regulates ovarian steroid hormone synthesis remains largely unexplored. In this study, we found that Trib1 is predominantly expressed in ovarian GCs. Knockdown of Trib1 in GCs significantly reduced their capacity for steroid hormone synthesis. Furthermore, Trib1 KO female mice were completely infertile, exhibiting impaired transition from primary to antral follicles, increased follicle atresia, and defective steroid hormone secretion. Ovarian RNA-Seq analysis revealed that differential expressed genes (DEGs) were significantly enriched in cholesterol metabolism and steroid biosynthesis pathways following Trib1 deletion. Notably, FOSL2, a transcription factor that potentially bound to the promoters of the pivotal steroidogenic genes Star and Cyp11a1, was significantly down-regulated in Trib1 KO mice. Crucially, overexpression of FOSL2 in Trib1-deficient GCs restored Star and Cyp11a1 expression and significantly rescued the ability of steroid hormone synthesis in GCs. Our findings unveil a novel Trib1 gene governing steroidogenesis in GCs and is essential for fertility in female mice, providing profound insights into the female reproductive endocrinology and potential therapeutic targets.
Recent reports have shown that polymorphisms in the TRPS1 and TRIB1 genes are associated with plasma lipid levels and the risk of cardiovascular disease. This study evaluates the associations of TRPS1 and TRIB1 polymorphisms with subclinical atherosclerosis (SA) and plasma lipid levels in Mexican individuals. This study included 1406 Mexican mestizo individuals (417 individuals with SA and 989 healthy controls). Genotyping of TRPS1 and TRIB1 polymorphisms was performed using TaqMan assays in a real-time PCR system. To analyze whether these polymorphisms are associated with SA and plasma lipid levels, we used logistic regression (OR [95% CI]), adjusted for confounding factors. The AA genotype of the TRPS1 rs2737229 A/C polymorphism showed a significant association with the risk of developing SA under multiple genetic models [codominant: OR = 1.61 (95% CI: 1.10-2.36), p = 0.048; recessive: OR = 1.42 (1.02-1.99), p = 0.039; additive: OR = 1.26 (1.05-1.53), p = 0.015]. Similarly, the TT genotype of the TRIB1 rs2954029 T/A polymorphism was also significantly associated with the risk of developing SA [codominant: OR = 1.63 (1.10-2.43), p = 0.033; recessive: OR = 1.64 (1.13-2.37), p = 0.009]. In a sub-analysis of SA individuals, individuals with homozygous AA for the TRPS1 rs2737229 polymorphism had higher LDL cholesterol levels [135 mg/dL (110-148)] than those with homozygous CC [118 mg/dL (99-139)] (p < 0.003). The analysis of the TRIB1 rs2954029 polymorphism showed that carriers of the TT genotype had increased glucose levels [97 mg/dL (87-118)] compared to carriers of the AA genotype [91 mg/dL (84-99)] (p < 0.002). In summary, our findings showed that, in Mexican Mestizos, the AA genotype of the TRPS1 rs2737229 A/C SNP and the TT genotype of the TRIB1 rs2954029 A/T polymorphism are associated with a higher risk of developing SA and elevated levels of glucose and LDL cholesterol.
Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified dozens of genetic loci linked with metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD).To identify liver-expressed genes that may represent therapeutic candidates for MASLD.We conducted a new GWAS meta-analysis including 16 532 cases and 1 240 188 controls. We also generated RNA sequencing data of liver samples and genome-wide genotyping of 504 individuals of the Quebec Obesity Biobank.Using mendelian randomization (MR) and genetic colocalization, we confirm the implication of genes previously linked with MASLD and identified novel ones including AKNA (AT-hook transcription factor), EPHA2 (EPH receptor A2), CHEK2 (encoding checkpoint kinase 2), and PCCB (propionyl-CoA carboxylase subunit β). More specifically, we found a strong and positive effect of long noncoding (lnc)RNA TRIB1AL on MASLD. The lead genetic variant was not linked with expression levels of the nearby protein-coding gene TRIB1 (Tribbles pseudokinase 1). In UK Biobank participants with whole-exome sequencing data available, rare loss-of-function variants in TRIB1 were not associated with liver fat accumulation or plasma triglyceride levels, suggesting that the lncRNA TRIB1AL may carry cardiometabolic effects independently of TRIB1. Targeted- and phenome-wide MR also identified lower liver-expressed TRIB1AL as being associated with reduced liver fat accumulation, lower plasma lipoprotein-lipid levels, and decreased atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease risk.These results open the door to liver-targeted therapeutics silencing of the noncoding genome for the prevention and treatment of MASLD and cardiometabolic diseases.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Endocrine Society.
To investigate whether miR-100-5p regulates the proliferation and apoptosis of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cells by targeting Tribbles pseudokinase 1 (TRIB1).Peripheral blood was collected from 16 healthy children (control group) and 16 children with AML (AML group). HL-60 cells were divided into seven groups: blank, mimic negative control (mimic NC), miR-100-5p mimic, small interfering RNA negative control (si-NC), si-TRIB1, miR-100-5p mimic + TRIB1 overexpression plasmid negative control (OE-NC), and miR-100-5p mimic + TRIB1 overexpression plasmid (OE-TRIB1). The expression of miR-100-5p and TRIB1 mRNA in peripheral blood and HL-60 cells was detected by quantitative real-time PCR. Cell proliferation was assessed by 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU) staining and the cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) assay (OD450). Apoptosis was analyzed by flow cytometry. Protein levels of TRIB1, proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), p53, programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1), and programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) were determined by Western blot. The targeting relationship between miR-100-5p and TRIB1 was validated by a dual-luciferase reporter assay.Compared with the control group, miR-100-5p expression was decreased and TRIB1 mRNA expression was increased in the peripheral blood of the AML group (P<0.05). Compared with the blank and mimic NC groups, the miR-100-5p mimic group showed higher miR-100-5p expression, apoptosis rate, and p53 protein, and lower TRIB1 mRNA expression, EdU-positive rate, OD450 value, and TRIB1, PCNA, PD-1, and PD-L1 proteins (P<0.05). Compared with the blank and si-NC groups, the si-TRIB1 group exhibited reduced TRIB1 mRNA expression, EdU-positive rate, OD450 value, and TRIB1, PCNA, PD-1, and PD-L1 proteins, together with increased apoptosis rate and p53 protein (P<0.05). Compared with the miR-100-5p mimic and miR-100-5p mimic + OE-NC groups, the miR-100-5p mimic + OE-TRIB1 group had elevated TRIB1 mRNA expression, EdU-positive rate, OD450 value, and TRIB1, PCNA, PD-1, and PD-L1 proteins, and reduced apoptosis rate and p53 protein (P<0.05). Compared with the TRIB1-WT + mimic NC group, luciferase activity was decreased in the TRIB1-WT + miR-100-5p mimic group (P<0.05).Overexpression of miR-100-5p inhibits proliferation and induces apoptosis of HL-60 cells by downregulating TRIB1.
Patients with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) often experience a range of metabolic comorbidities, suggesting a potential association between PCOS and metabolic syndrome (MetS). However, this potential link has not yet been fully elucidated.This study employed transcriptomic analysis and machine learning techniques to identify key genes and signaling pathways associated with both PCOS and MetS. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were analyzed, followed by Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses. Machine learning algorithms were used to identify hub genes, and their diagnostic potential was assessed using Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curves.A total of 373 DEGs were identified in PCOS, and 516 DEGs in MetS, with 14 overlapping genes considered critical for both conditions. Six hub genes including Dihydropyrimidinase-like 4(DPYSL4), FBJ osteosarcoma oncogene(FOS), Jun dimerization protein 2(JDP2), Stearoyl-CoA desaturase(SCD), Tribbles pseudokinase 1(TRIB1), Zinc finger protein 331(ZNF331) were selected through various machine learning methods. Enrichment analyses revealed that these genes significantly influence apoptosis, TNF signaling, and lipid metabolism pathways, highlighting their roles in the pathogenesis of PCOS and MetS.These findings suggest that these genes may serve as potential therapeutic targets for the prevention and treatment of comorbidities in patients with PCOS and MetS. The identified hub genes play significant roles in the development of PCOS and MetS, underscoring the need for further research on these genes. This study offers insights into molecular interactions and potential biomarkers for early diagnosis and therapeutic targets for these syndromes. Future studies should aim to validate these findings in larger cohorts to enhance their clinical applicability.Not applicable.© 2025. The Author(s).
Studies have shown that serum microRNA detection holds significant potential in improving the diagnostic accuracy of mycoplasma pneumoniae pneumonia (MPP).To investigate the expression and clinical value of miR-98-5p in children with Mycoplasma pneumoniae (MP) infection complicated with diarrhea.A total of 122 children diagnosed with MPP were selected as study subjects, and 80 healthy children were selected as controls. Real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) was used to detect the expression of miR-98-5p. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve was used to determine the diagnostic value of miR-98-5p. The risk factors for MPP with diarrhea were analyzed by means of a logistic regression model. THP-1 cell models with miR-98-5p overexpression and knockdown were established to investigate the potential mechanisms of miR-98-5p in MP infection.Serum miR-98-5p expression is decreased among children having MPP, and it has a negative correlation with the logMP-DNA level. The miR-98-5p level in children with MPP accompanied by diarrhea is lower compared to that in children with MPP alone. miR-98-5p demonstrates promising diagnostic potential for MPP complicated with diarrhea, and serves as a risk factor for diarrhea in MP-infected children. TargetScan database prediction showed that potential target genes of miR-98-5p, including Synaptotagmin 1 (SYT1) and Tribbles pseudokinase 1(TRIB1), are both associated with digestive system injury induced by MP infection.The expression of serum miR-98-5p is decreased in children with MPP complicated by diarrhea, and it may become a diagnostic biomarker.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights reserved.
In recent years, data from genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have shown that the genes coding for transcriptional repressor GATA binding 1 (TRPS1) and tribbles pseudokinase 1 (TRIB1) play an important role in plasma lipid profiles and act as risk factors for coronary heart disease (CHD). The aim of this work was to explore whether single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the TRSP1 (rs231150 and rs2737229) and TRIB1 (rs2980880 and rs2954029) genes are involved in acute coronary syndrome (ACS) and plasma lipid levels. We included 1262 patients diagnosed with ACS and 1051 controls. According to inheritance models, the minor alleles of the SNPs (rs2737229 A, rs2980880 C, and rs2954029 T) were associated with an increased incidence of ACS (p < 0.05). In a sub-analysis that included only the control subjects, the same minor allele frequency was associated with increased total cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol, and LDL-cholesterol levels and low triglyceride levels. In conclusion, rs2737229, rs2980880, and rs2954029 polymorphisms are associated with a risk of developing ACS and with elevated plasma lipid levels. Our results suggest that the TRSP1 and TRIB1 are implicated in the incidence of ACS through of increased of plasma lipid profile.
This study aimed to further explore immune protein patterns in cases of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) by describing additional findings from an initial proteomic study to investigate whether an unbalanced immune response may contribute to the occurrence of SIDS in certain cases.The subjects included 46 SIDS cases and 39 controls autopsied at the Department of Forensic Sciences, Oslo, Norway. The causes of death in the controls were accidents/trauma. The normalised protein expression of 92 proteins were analysed in samples of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) by Proximity Extension Assay (PEA).For the purpose of this report, 17 of the immune system-related proteins in the assay were chosen for a more in-depth analysis. The major finding was a downregulation in the proteins Retinoic Acid-Inducible Gene I (DDX58/RIG-I), Phosphoinositide-3-Kinase Adaptor Protein 1(PIK3AP1), Interferon Regulatory Factor 9 (IRF9), Tripartite Motif Containing 5 (TRIM5), TRAF Family Member-Associated Nuclear factor kappa B (NF-Κb) Activator (TANK) and TNF Receptor Associated Factor 2 (TRAF2), and upregulation of CXADR Ig-like cell adhesion molecule (CXADR).The results are in keeping with the findings of earlier studies, supporting the role of immune system dysregulation as a potential predisposing factor for SIDS.© 2025 Foundation Acta Paediatrica. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Infectious ecthyma is a severe and highly contagious disease caused by ORF virus (ORFV). The virus is responsible for significant economic losses in the goat industry and threatens humans. Regarding complement component 1, q subcomponent binding protein (C1QBP), we previously showed that C1QBP can interact with ORFV129. However, the role of C1QBP in regulating the apoptosis of goat fetal turbinate cells is unknown.After pcDNA3.1-C1QBP and siRNA were transfected into goat fetal turbinate cells (GFTCs), the expression of C1QBP was detected by western blot and cell cycle and apoptosis using flow cytometry. The expression of cycle-related genes cyclin-dependent protein kinase 2 (CDK2) and cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors 1A (p21) and apoptosis-related genes cysteinyl aspartate specific proteinase 3 (Caspase 3), cysteinyl aspartate specific proteinase 7 (Caspase 7), p53, poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP1), B-Cell lymphoma-2 Like-11 (BCL2L11), B-cell lymphoma 2 associated X protein (Bax), and B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2) were tested by real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR). The effect of MTT on the proliferation of GFTCs was detected. The localization of C1QBP in GFTCs was detected by inverted fluorescence microscope. Finally, transcriptome sequencing was performed and validated by siRNA treatment knockdown of C1QBP, and screening two genes tripartite motif containing 5 (TRIM5) and tumor necrosis factor superfamilymember10 (TNFSF10) with significant changes in expression levels and relevance to cell apoptosis, and to verify their roles in C1QBP-induced cell apoptosis.Knockdown of C1QBP significantly increased cell viability; cells remained in the G0/G1 phase and reduced apoptosis. Knockdown of C1QBP reduced the mRNA expression of CDK2, p21, Caspase3, Caspase7, Bax, PARP1, BCL2L11, and p53, up regulated the mRNA expression of the Bcl-2. Except for Bcl-2, The opposite effect was observed when C1QBP was overexpressed in GFTCs and the mRNA levels of Bcl-2 had no significant effect. Immunostaining revealed intracellular localization of C1QBP, primarily in the cytoplasm of the GFTCs. Furthermore, gene expression profiling analysis in C1QBP depleted cells compared to the control revealed that a total of 236 differential expression genes (DEGs), including 119 up regulated DEGs and 117 down regulated DEGs, and the expression of TRIM5 and TNFSF10 genes were significantly upregulated. Pathway analysis were predicted to be enriched in Herpes simplex virus 1 infection, Pathways in cancer, PI3K-Akt signaling pathway, Apoptosis, Apoptosis-multiple species and p53 signaling pathway. C1QBP reduced the expression of TRIM5 and TNFSF10 genes. Knockdown of TRIM5 promoted apoptosis in GFTCs, but silencing of TNFSF10 had no change in apoptosis rate. In particular, the apoptosis rate was significantly increased in the TRIM5-siRNA2 or TNFSF10-siRNA2 and C1QBP-siRNA2 group compared to the only C1QBP-siRNA2 group.These findings provide a deeper understanding of the role of C1QBP in apoptosis and could pave the way for further study investigating the role and mechanism of C1QBP protein in mediating the regulation of cell apoptosis by ORFV.Copyright © 2025 Li, Tang, Xiang, Dan, Ren, Zhang, Yang and Zhu.
Neointimal hyperplasia (NIH) characterized by vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) dysfunctions plays a critical role in many vascular diseases including atherosclerosis and restenosis, which leads to serious ischaemic complications and has limited therapeutic approaches. Our previous studies confirm a critical role for nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 3 (Nrf3) in VSMC differentiation. However, little is known about the functional implications of Nrf3 in NIH.Transcriptome dataset and human atherosclerotic samples were used to determine Nrf3 expression levels. Global (Nrf3-/-) and VSMC-specific (Nrf3ΔSMC) Nrf3 knockout mice were used to assess the role of Nrf3 in VSMC function and injury-induced NIH. Complementary molecular methods were performed to identify Nrf3 downstream targets and elucidate the regulatory role of Nrf3 in target gene regulation. Porcine carotid stenting model was used to validate the therapeutic effects of Nrf3 inhibition in vascular remodelling. Transcriptomic data and immunostaining analysis showed increased levels of Nrf3, and a positive correlation between Nrf3 and NIH in the human atherosclerotic vessels. Various pathophysiological stimuli induced endoplasmic reticulum stress that enhanced Nrf3 expression via Activating Transcription Factor 4 (ATF4). Nrf3 overexpression promoted both human and mouse VSMC proliferation, migration, and inflammatory response, while opposite effects were observed when Nrf3 was deleted or knockdown. Nrf3-/- and Nrf3ΔSMC mice showed decreased VSMC accumulation and attenuated vascular injury-induced NIH. Mechanistically, tripartite motif-containing 5 (Trim5), a genetic risk locus for coronary artery disease, was identified as a functional downstream target of Nrf3 in VSMCs and in injured arteries. Nrf3 enhanced autophagy in VSMCs and injured arteries by up-regulating Trim5 expression, which subsequently promoted dysfunctions of VSMCs, thereby increasing injury-induced NIH. Importantly, restoring either Nrf3 or Trim5 expression in Nrf3-/- mice rescued the arterial phenotypes observed in Nrf3-/- mice. Critically, the porcine carotid artery restenosis induced by ballooning and stenting was significantly reduced by suppressing Nrf3 expression through perivascular administration of the Nrf3 inhibitors.We comprehensively demonstrate that Nrf3 is a novel modulator in VSMC dysfunctions and injury-induced NIH. Nrf3 exerts its pathological functions by transcriptional activation of Trim5 gene, which in turn triggers autophagy in VSMCs and injured arteries, promoting arterial remodelling. Inhibiting the Nrf3-Trim5 signal axis ameliorates injury-induced NIH, offering novel therapeutics for treating patients with NIH-related vascular diseases.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology.
Lupus nephritis (LN), a severe complication of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), is closely associated with aberrant immune-inflammatory responses. Currently, reliable non-invasive biomarkers are lacking, and existing treatments remain limited. Targeting autoimmune and inflammatory pathways offers new therapeutic potential. Triptolide (TP), a diterpenoid triepoxide compound extracted from the traditional Chinese medicine Tripterygium wilfordii, exhibits potent immunosuppressive, anti-inflammatory, and anti-proteinuric effects, demonstrating remarkable efficacy in tumors, inflammation, autoimmune diseases, and kidney-related disorders. This study investigates the mechanism by which TP ameliorates LN through the hsa_circ_0001439/ELAVL1 axis to regulate TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) mRNA stability. In vitro (human renal tubular epithelial cell line) and in vivo (MRL/lpr mouse model) experiments were conducted. Renal function was assessed by measuring 24-hour urinary albumin, blood urea nitrogen, and serum creatinine levels. Serum levels of inflammatory cytokines, including tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interferon-gamma, and interleukin-2, were detected by ELISA. Renal histopathological changes were observed via hematoxylin-eosin and periodic acid-Schiff staining. The cytotoxicity of TP was determined using the cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) assay. The expression of hsa_circ_0001439, ELAVL1, and TRAF6 mRNA was measured by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Protein expression of TRAF6 and its downstream pathway components (phosphorylated p65/p65, phosphorylated p38/p38) was detected by Western blot. Apoptosis was analyzed by flow cytometry, and intracellular reactive oxygen species levels were measured to assess oxidative damage. Immunoglobulin G and complement component 3 deposition were evaluated by immunofluorescence. The interactions among hsa_circ_0001439, ELAVL1, and TRAF6 were investigated using RNA pull-down, fluorescence in situ hybridization-immunofluorescence, RNA immunoprecipitation, and dual-luciferase reporter assays. TRAF6 mRNA stability was examined following Actinomycin D treatment. Bioinformatics analysis revealed upregulation of hsa_circ_0001439 in LN (P<0.05). TP improved renal function and histopathology in LN mice (P<0.05). Silencing hsa_circ_0001439 or ELAVL1 alleviated renal injury (P<0.05), while their overexpression reversed TP's therapeutic effects (P<0.05). Hsa_circ_0001439 bound to ELAVL1 to stabilize TRAF6 mRNA (P<0.05). In rescue experiments, TP reduced inflammation (P<0.05), but hsa_circ_0001439/ELAVL1 overexpression counteracted this effect (P<0.05). TRAF6 inhibition further mitigated oxidative damage (P<0.05), confirming TRAF6 as a key target. This study elucidates that TP alleviates LN by inhibiting TRAF6-driven inflammation via the hsa_circ_0001439/ELAVL1 axis, providing a potential therapeutic target for LN treatment.Copyright© 2025 Polish Physiological Society.
The endogenous tear peptidome plays essential roles in maintaining ocular homeostasis by stimulating immune response and participating in antimicrobial activity. The biological function of these native peptides is governed by their biochemical properties, including peptide length, charge, and hydrophobicity. Accordingly, the production of native peptides within the tear film is tightly regulated through a complex interplay between circulating proteases and the proteolytic susceptibility of the protein substrate. Though glycosylation has been shown to regulate the proteolysis of specific proteins in vitro, the extent to which endogenous cleavage motifs are mediated by proximal O-glycans remains unexplored in a complex biofluid. Furthermore, the existence and identity of native tear peptides bearing O-glycans have yet to be elucidated, largely due to the high analytical complexity of tear fluid and the difficulty in characterizing O-glycosylated peptides. To address this gap, we leveraged advances in mass spectrometry (MS) to provide the first observation of extracellular tear O-glycopeptides, detailing their biochemical properties and overall glycan compositions. Beyond systematic profiling of the O-glycopeptidome, we employed site-specific glycoproteomic analysis followed by molecular dynamics to investigate the correlation between O-glycan proximity and proteolysis. Here, we observed that O-glycans preferentially occupy glycosites distal from the N-/C-terminus, which was associated with distinct cleavage motifs and peptide backbones. We then showed in silico that O-glycosylation on lacritin can mediate the solvent accessibility of proximal cleavage residues, thus providing a structural basis for these observations. Finally, cleavage studies of glycosylated and nonglycosylated lacritin revealed that the unmodified form exhibited significantly greater degradation by endogenous tear proteases, supporting a protective role for its glycans. Taken together, this study defines the proteolytic landscape at the ocular surface and highlights a potential role for tear fluid O-glycans in mediating proteolysis.© 2026 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
Carboxyl terminus of HSC70-interacting protein (CHIP) serves as a quality control protein that involves in inflammation and immunity, bone remodeling and tumorigenesis. However, the role of CHIP in joint disease such as rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is less explored.Wild-type and Chip knockdown mice were used to establish a collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) model to assess arthritis progression through clinical index and histopathological markers (synovial hyperplasia, inflammatory infiltration and cartilage damage). SiRNA and lentivirus were respectively used to knockdown and overexpress CHIP in CIA fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS), investigating its regulatory effect on proliferation, migration, invasion and inflammation. Western blotting and immunofluorescence analysis were performed to assess the effect of CHIP on Tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) and to elucidate the underlying mechanism. Adeno-associated virus (AAV) mediated delivery of Chip was used to evaluate its therapeutic effects in CIA mice.CHIP significantly decreased in the synovium of CIA mice and RA patients compare to control. CHIP deficiency exacerbated synovial inflammation, cartilage degradation, and bone erosion in CIA, further underscoring its protective role in joint homeostasis. Moreover, knockdown of CHIP promoted the proliferation, migration and expression of inflammatory cytokines in CIA-FLS, while CHIP overexpression in CIA-FLS showed the opposite results. Mechanistically, CHIP interacted with TRAF6 and promoted the degradation of TRAF6. CHIP inhibited the migration and pro-inflammatory phenotypes of CIA-FLS via TRAF6/p65 pathway. Further, AAV mediated CHIP gene therapy by intra-articular administration effectively attenuated the progression of CIA by inhibiting the synovial inflammation and expression of TRAF6.Collectively, these findings demonstrated the critical regulatory role of CHIP in RA. Therefore, exploiting the protective effects of CHIP may represent a potential therapeutic strategy for RA.These findings not only advance our understanding of CHIP's regulatory role in RA but also highlight the value of genetic animal models in orthopaedic drug discovery.© 2026 The Authors.
Corneal allograft rejection remains a leading cause of graft failure. Mesenchymal stem cell-derived extracellular vesicles (MSC-EVs) may provide new options for modulating the immune response to allografts.This study aimed to determine whether miR-146a-enriched EVs could prolong corneal allograft survival by modulating local and systemic immune responses.After corneal allografting from C57BL/6 to BALB/c mice, recipients received subconjunctival injections of PBS, miR-NC-EVs, or miR-146a-EVs isolated from human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells (hUCSCs). Local inflammatory and regulatory factors in ocular tissues were assessed using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) to quantify the expression of interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6), tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, and forkhead box protein 3 (Foxp3). Systemic cytokine profiles were assessed in recipient sera using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) to measure interferon (IFN)-γ, interleukin (IL)-17, IL-10, and transforming growth factor (TGF)-β.Clinical rejection scores were markedly reduced, with significant improvements in opacity, edema, and neovascularization. RT-PCR analysis of corneal tissue showed miR-146a overexpression, downregulation of IRAK1 and TRAF6, a significant reduction in TNF-α mRNA, and increased Foxp3 expression. ELISA analysis of systemic IFN-γ and IL-17 showed that treatment with miR-146a-EVs resulted in lower systemic IFN-γ and IL-17 levels and significantly higher levels of the anti-inflammatory cytokines, IL-10 and TGF-β.This study identifies miR-146a-EVs as a novel cell-free therapy that effectively prolongs corneal transplant survival. The treatment exerts dual immunomodulatory effects by regulating local inflammatory pathways and shifting systemic cytokine profiles toward an anti-inflammatory state, thereby offering a targeted strategy to prevent transplant rejection.Copyright © 2026, He.
Metabolic dysregulation is a hallmark of tumorigenesis and profoundly impacts immune surveillance; however, the underlying mechanisms and targeted treatments remain limited in colorectal cancer (CRC). Here, we utilize public databases, mouse models, and multi-omics analyses to identify N-acetyltransferase 1 (NAT1) as a critical prognostic-associated gene that emerges as a significant modulator of tumor immunity in CRC. We demonstrate that NAT1 suppresses glycolysis and lactate production, thereby promoting an immune-activated tumor microenvironment (TME). Mechanistically, NAT1 interacts with enolase 1 (ENO1), a key glycolytic enzyme, acetylating it at lysine 343 (K343) and thereby inhibiting its activity. However, loss of NAT1 in tumor cells leads to enhanced ENO1 activation, which in turn drives glycolysis and lactate production. Lactate then binds to TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6), promoting its oligomerization and activation, leading to K63-linked ubiquitination of PD-L1, which enhances PD-L1 stability and facilitates immune evasion. Importantly, low NAT1-expressing tumors from CRC patients show increased sensitivity to anti-PD-1 therapy, and NAT1 deficiency significantly improves the efficacy of anti-PD-L1 antibody treatment in preclinical mouse models. Collectively, our findings highlight the critical role of NAT1 in reshaping the TME and suggest that targeting the NAT1-ENO1-lactate axis represents a promising therapeutic strategy to enhance immunotherapy in CRC.© 2026 The Author(s). MedComm published by Sichuan International Medical Exchange & Promotion Association (SCIMEA) and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Prostate cancer remains a significant therapeutic challenge in male urologic oncology. Characterized by an immunosuppressive microenvironment, it is commonly described as an immunologically "cold" tumor. This study elucidates the role of TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) within the immune landscape of prostate cancer. We observed marked downregulation of TRAF6 in both patient-derived tissues and cultured prostate cancer cell lines. Functional assays demonstrated that TRAF6 upregulation robustly suppresses cancer cell proliferation and migration. Mechanistically, we discovered that TRAF6 sensitizes prostate cancer cells to CD8+ T cell-mediated ferroptosis by targeting Lipocalin 2 (LCN2) for proteasomal degradation. The anti-tumor effects of TRAF6 overexpression were reversed upon LCN2 restoration. Further analyses showed that TRAF6 promotes LCN2 ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation. Our results reveal a previously unrecognized pathway by which TRAF6 modulates tumor cell susceptibility to CD8+ T cell-associated ferroptosis, highlighting the translational potential of targeting the TRAF6-LCN2 signaling axis in prostate cancer therapy.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
The NLRP3 (nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain, leucine-rich repeat-containing receptor family pyrin domain-containing 3) inflammasome plays a causal role in driving atherosclerosis. HIF (hypoxia-inducible factor) prolyl hydroxylase EGLN3 (Caenorhabditis elegans gene egl-9 [EGLN] 3) inhibits NFκB (nuclear factor kappa B) signaling independently of its hydroxylase activity. This study determined the role and mechanism of EGLN3 prolyl hydroxylase in regulating NLRP3 inflammasome activation, vascular inflammation, and the development of atherosclerosis.ApoE-/- mice deficient for global EGLN3, macrophage EGLN3, or EGLN3 hydroxylase activity were used to explore the role of EGLN3 and its activity in atherosclerosis. MCC950 was applied to antagonize the NLRP3 inflammasome in mice. Various cellular and molecular methods were used for mechanistic studies.EGLN3 elimination promotes the production of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species and the release of mitochondrial DNA in macrophages. EGLN3 ablation enhances NLRP3 inflammasome assembly and promotes GSDMD (gasdermin D) cleavage, IL (interleukin) 1β production, and pyroptosis of macrophages. TRAF6 (TNF receptor-associated factor 6) catalyzes lysine (K) 63-linked NLRP3 ubiquitination and potentiates NLRP3 inflammasome assembly and activation, which can be antagonized by EGLN3. EGLN3 also blunts K63-polyubiquitination of TRAF6. EGLN3 deficiency enhances lipid uptake through increasing CD36 expression and impedes cholesterol efflux by declining ABCA1 (ATP-binding cassette transporter A1) expression, thereby boosting macrophage foam cell formation. EGLN3 depletion restrains MerTK expression and efferocytosis of macrophages. Inhibition of the NLRP3 inflammasome counteracts the impacts of EGLN3 deficiency on foam cell formation and efferocytosis. Global and macrophage-specific ablation of EGLN3 exacerbates vascular inflammation and instability of the atherosclerotic plaques in ApoE-/- mice. Pharmacological inhibition of the NLRP3 inflammasome ameliorates the detrimental effect of EGLN3 deficiency on vascular inflammation and the formation and stability of the plaques. Genetic inactivation of EGLN3 activity retains its ability to restrict NLRP3 inflammasome activation and atherosclerosis development.EGLN3 inhibits NLRP3 inflammasome assembly and activation through antagonizing TRAF6-induced NLRP3 ubiquitination and activation. EGLN3 suppresses vascular inflammation and atherosclerosis by modulating pyroptosis, foam cell formation, and efferocytosis of macrophages through targeting the NLRP3 inflammasome. EGLN3 protects against atherosclerosis independently of its hydroxylase activity.
Background: Prostate cancer (PCa) responds poorly to immunotherapy. We investigated the myeloid checkpoint TIM3 (HAVCR2) to define its lineage localization and regulatory logic in the PCa microenvironment. Methods: We integrated stage-resolved public single-cell RNA-seq datasets spanning primary PCa, metastatic hormone-sensitive PCa, and castration-resistant PCa. Myeloid compartments were analyzed via differential expression, regulon inference, and ligand-receptor modeling. Clinical relevance was evaluated in the Cancer Genome Atlas prostate adenocarcinoma (TCGA-PRAD) cohort and independent cohorts using a myeloid TIM3 signature. Mechanistic validation was achieved through PR domain zinc finger protein 1 (PRDM1) chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by Chromatin Immunoprecipitation (ChIP)-qPCR (ChIP-qPCR), TIM3-promoter luciferase assays, and functional perturbation of the galectin 9 (LGALS9)-TIM3 signaling pathway in macrophages differentiated. Results: TIM3 expression was predominantly confined to monocytes/macrophages, indicating TIM3 as a microenvironmental checkpoint in PCa. TIM3_high macrophages formed a Secreted Phosphoprotein 1 (SPP1)-enriched tumor-associated macrophage (TAM) state coupled to chemokine programs and extracellular matrix remodeling. Regulon profiling nominated PR domain zinc finger protein 1 (PRDM1) as an upstream driver; PRDM1 correlated with TIM3. Communication inference further highlighted an LGALS9-TIM3 axis and a C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 4/integrin subunit beta 1 (CXCR4/ITGB1)-associated permissive niche. Recombinant LGALS9 induced TIM3-linked M2-like macrophages polarization and increased CXCR4/ITGB1, which was attenuated by TIM3 blockade. Conclusions: Our results delineate a PRDM1-licensed TIM3_high macrophage program sustained by an LGALS9-TIM3 reinforcement loop and coupled to immunosuppressive and remodeling-associated phenotypes. Targeting TIM3 in the myeloid compartment, alone or in rational combinations, may represent a feasible strategy to reprogram tumor-associated macrophage states in PCa.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Tech Science Press.
Fibrosis is increasingly viewed as a consequence of defective tissue regeneration rather than simply excessive extracellular matrix accumulation. However, the mechanisms that simultaneously regulate fibroblast activation and regenerative capacity remain poorly understood. In our recent study, we identify chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA) as a conserved regulator of fibrosis across the lung, liver, and kidney. The CMA receptor lysosome-associated membrane protein 2 (LAMP2A) is consistently downregulated in experimental and human fibrotic diseases, accompanied by reduced CMA activity. Restoration of LAMP2A expression or pharmacological activation of CMA suppresses fibroblast activation through degradation of the mechanosensitive protein integrin subunit beta 1 (ITGB1) and simultaneously enhances regenerative programs in alveolar epithelial cells, hepatocytes, and renal tubular cells. These findings suggest that CMA functions as a regenerative checkpoint that coordinates tissue repair outcomes. Beyond its established role in proteostasis, CMA may determine whether injured tissues undergo successful regeneration or progress toward fibrosis, highlighting CMA activation as a potential therapeutic strategy for chronic fibrotic diseases.Abbreviation: CMA: chaperone-mediated autophagy ITGB1: integrin subunit beta 1 LAMP2A: lysosome associated membrane protein 2.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42089570 is a review article
To screen for differentially expressed genes in retinoblastoma (RB) gene chips using GEO2R and validate them clinically.The expression profile chip data (GSE110811) was downloaded from the public gene chip database Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO). The GEO2R chip analysis platform was used to identify differentially expressed genes between RB and adjacent normal tissues. According to the International Intraocular Retinoblastoma Classification (IIRC) system, 35 children diagnosed with RB from our hospital and other hospitals were enrolled as the RB group, and 35 healthy children who underwent physical examinations in our hospital were enrolled as the control group. The relative expression levels of Sprouty RTK signaling antagonist 2 (SPRY2) and estrogen-related receptor beta (ESRRB) in the serum of patients were detected by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). The diagnostic value of SPRY2 and ESRRB in RB was evaluated by receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves. Analysis of the relationship between SPRY2/ESRRB expression and clinicopathological features, as well as its correlation with the tumor marker CA199.In the GSE110811 chip, the expression levels of two genes, 16780069 (SPRY2) and 16786783 (ESRRB), showed the most significant differences between RB and normal tissues. The relative expression levels of SPRY2 and ESRRB in the serum of children in RB group (22 males, age 1.64±1.08y) were significantly lower (P<0.05) than those in control group (25 males, age 1.54±0.95y). The area under the ROC curve for SPRY2 was 0.735 (95%CI: 0.616-0.854), while that for ESRRB was 0.880 (95%CI: 0.800-0.960). There were statistically significant differences in the expression of SPRY2 and ESRRB with respect to choroidal invasion, optic nerve invasion, differentiation degree, and clinical staging (P<0.05). In RB group, the expression levels of SPRY2 and ESRRB decreased gradually with increasing CA199 levels, showing a negative correlation (r SPRY2=-0.593, r ESRRB=-0.423; both P<0.05).The expression of SPRY2 and ESRRB is closely related to the occurrence and development of RB and negatively correlated with the tumor marker CA199. They have the potential to serve as diagnostic biomarkers for RB.International Journal of Ophthalmology Press.
The core of organ fibrosis formation lies in the regenerative defects of parenchymal cells and in the excessive activation of fibroblasts, yet methods to simultaneously address these pathological cell types remain lacking. Here, we found that the expression of the chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA) limiting factor lysosome-associated membrane protein type 2A (LAMP2A) was consistently down-regulated in mouse models of bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis, carbon tetrachloride (CCl4)-induced liver fibrosis, and folic acid-induced renal fibrosis. We also confirmed a low CMA score in patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, renal fibrosis, systemic sclerosis, and myocardial fibrosis. In the three mouse models, recombinant adeno-associated virus-mediated overexpression of Lamp2a was sufficient to inhibit the initiation and progression of fibrosis. Mechanistically, we demonstrated that LAMP2A overexpression in cultured fibroblast cell lines and each of the three mouse models could suppress fibroblast activation and reverse established myofibroblast fates by directly degrading the mechanosensitive protein integrin subunit beta 1. In addition, through cell type-specific Lamp2a overexpression in these fibrotic mouse models, we found that LAMP2A could promote regeneration in the liver, lungs, and kidneys. Moreover, pharmacological activation of CMA in these mouse models also alleviated organ fibrosis and promoted functional recovery when fibrosis had already been established. Thus, our study identifies LAMP2A as a broad-spectrum antifibrotic factor and provides proof of principle for dual targeting of core fibrotic cells to treat fibrosis.
The aim of the study was to develop a non-human primate model of metabolic dysfunction in Macaca fascicularis using chronic high-fat diet (HFD) to mimic clinical disease progression.Thirty-five male macaques aged 10-15 years underwent an 18-month HFD intervention. Physiological parameters (BMI, BP, hematology), liver fat fraction (evaluated by ultrasound/MRI), cardiac function (assessed by echocardiography), and histopathology (using liver biopsy) were measured before and after the intervention. Serum proteomics with KEGG/STRING analyses identified molecular mechanisms.Within 6 months, HFD induced dyslipidemia (elevated TG, TCHO, HDL-C, LDL-C). After 18 months, metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH) was confirmed by histopathology in 57.14% (16/28) of macaques, diabetes (elevated FPG/HbA1c) in 17.86% (5/28), and myocardial hypertrophy (elevated LVMass/LAD) in 46.43% (13/28). Proteomics identified Bile acid-CoA: amino acid N-acyltransferase (BAAT) as a MASH hallmark protein, the level of which was inversely correlated with the degree of fibrosis. For diabetes, citrate synthase (CS) and malate dehydrogenase 1 (MDH1) impaired glucose oxidation via the TCA cycle, while hexose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (H6PD) disrupted gluconeogenesis. Myocardial hypertrophy was associated with the downregulation of SRC proto-oncogene, non-receptor tyrosine kinase (SRC), mitogen-activated protein kinase 14 (MAPK14), emerin (EMD), and integrin subunit beta 1 (ITGB1).An 18-month HFD successfully established a translational M. fascicularis model replicating key metabolic disorders (MASH, diabetes, cardiac hypertrophy). BAAT, CS/MDH1/H6PD, and SRC/MAPK14/EMD/ITGB1 were identified as mechanistic biomarkers for these conditions.© 2026 The Author(s). Animal Models and Experimental Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of The Chinese Association for Laboratory Animal Sciences.
Kidney injury is a common complication of deep hypothermic circulatory arrest (DHCA) in patients undergoing cardiac surgery. However, the role of competitive endogenous RNA (ceRNA) networks in mediating DHCA-induced kidney injury has not been fully elucidated. In the present study, we aimed to systematically analyze ceRNA networks and identify a novel lncRNA, MSTRG.16386.1, that promotes DHCA-induced kidney injury by regulating the miR-466b-5p/Sprouty RTK signaling antagonist 2 (Spry2) axis. Kidney injury induced by DHCA was confirmed using a rat model of cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) with or without DHCA. In addition, lncRNA and mRNA sequencing of kidney tissues revealed 309 specific shared differentially expressed mRNAs (DEGs) and 439 differentially expressed lncRNAs (DELs) in the kidneys of CPB+DHCA rats compared with those of SHAM and CPB rats. Differentially expressed miRNAs (DEMs) were predicted by coexpression and binding site analysis. A ceRNA network consisting of 12 DEGs, 6 DELs, and 11 DEMs was constructed, and the top ranked RNAs were Sprouty RTK Signaling Antagonist 2 (Spry2), MSTRG.16386.1, and miR-466b-5p, which were verified using qRT-PCR. We found that MSTRG.16386.1 overexpression resulted in NRK-52E cell apoptosis, which was suppressed by the interaction with miR-466b-5p. In addition, we demonstrated that Spry2 is a key target of MSTRG.16386.1 and miR-466b-5p. Rescue experiment results revealed that the downregulated expression of Spry2 protected NRK-52E cells against apoptosis mediated by MSTRG.16386.1 overexpression or an miR-466b-5p inhibitor. Our findings provide novel insights into ceRNA regulation of the MSTRG.16386.1/miR-466b-5p/Spry2 axis in DHCA-induced kidney injury by the induction of apoptosis.© 2025 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) continues to pose a chief threat to the global healthcare landscape and is characterized by scarce therapeutic options and poor clinical outcomes, especially in advanced-stage disease. Although lymphocyte antigen 96 (LY96) is associated with immunogenic cell death, its specific role in HCC progression and therapeutic potential remains unclear. To identify prospective therapeutic targets in HCC, by combining the cancer-immunity cycle score with WGCNA and systems biology methods, we identify pivotal molecular interactions. By integrating the cancer-immunity cycle score with WGCNA and systems-level approaches, we systematically identify potential therapeutic targets in HCC. We evaluate LY96 expression at the transcriptomic and proteomic levels in HCC tissues and explore its prognostic relevance by drawing upon information from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) repository. The functional role of LY96 is delineated through a panel of cellular assays conducted in vitro, complemented by in vivo tumorigenesis models. To identify the downstream signaling cascades associated with LY96, gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) is performed to elucidate the implicated pathways, which are then confirmed via experimental validation. Furthermore, we employ a lipid-polymer hybrid nanoparticle (NP) platform to facilitate the systemic delivery of an LY96 inhibitor and demonstrate its potential as a newly proposed intervention strategy for HCC. Clinically, marked LY96 overexpression occurs in HCC samples, where elevated LY96 expression is strongly associated with reduced overall survival (OS) among liver cancer patients. LY96 facilitates the progression of HCC via complementary in vitro and in vivo approaches. Mechanistically, LY96 induces the activation of the TGF-β1/Smad2/3 signaling axis in HCC. For therapeutic applications, we develop a liposome-based nanoparticle system that delivers the LY96 inhibitor L6H21 to tumor cells and effectively suppresses HCC progression through a combination of in vivo and in vitro studies. Taken together, the current observations identify LY96 as a promising diagnostic indicator and a viable intervention for therapeutic modulation to improve HCC treatment.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41009960 is a review article
2-phenylbenzimidazole-5-sulfonic acid (PBSA), a widely used organic UV filter, is frequently detected in aquatic environments, yet its developmental neurotoxicity (DNT) remains poorly understood. Here, we exposed zebrafish embryos to 0.1-1000 μg/L PBSA and identified 10 μg/L as the effective concentration and 6-48 hours post-fertilization (hpf) as the sensitive developmental window for PBSA-induced DNT. Exposure to 10 μg/L PBSA during the critical window led to a significant increase in reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels and inflammatory response, accompanied by astrocyte activation in specific brain region (elevated GFAP, S100B, and glutamine synthetase), while neurogenesis was inhibited independent of apoptosis. Moreover, PBSA exposure upregulated retinoid X receptor gamma (rxrga) expression and downregulated thrombospondin-1 (tsp-1) expression, with rxrga positively correlated with astrocyte activation markers and negatively correlated with tsp-1 levels. Knockdown of rxrga using morpholino rescued PBSA-induced tsp-1 suppression, neurogenesis impairments, and behavioral abnormalities at 120 hpf, while leaving astrocyte activation unaffected, suggesting that astrocyte activation may operate upstream of rxrga. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that PBSA exposure during a sensitive developmental window induces DNT through oxidative stress, inflammation, and astrocyte activation, with the rxrga/tsp-1 axis mediating neurogenesis inhibition. This study provides mechanistic insights into PBSA-induced neurotoxicity and emphasizes the importance of incorporating DNT assessment in UV filter safety evaluation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Periodontal regenerative therapy using recombinant human fibroblast growth factor-2 (rhFGF-2) combined with deproteinized bovine bone mineral (DBBM) has demonstrated favorable and predictable clinical outcomes for intrabony defects. However, long-term outcomes and potential challenges following such combination therapies remain poorly documented.A 40-year-old woman with generalized stage III grade C periodontitis underwent periodontal regenerative therapy using rhFGF-2 combined with DBBM for a one-wall defect at the mandibular left first molar (#19).Favorable periodontal healing was maintained for approximately 4 years. However, for tooth #19, the probing depth gradually increased at 5 years 2 months post-surgery, and the patient developed discomfort and pulpal symptoms by 6 years 2 months. Clinical examination revealed an agglomerate of DBBM particles and a palpable external root resorption lesion. The tooth was extracted due to irreversible pulpal involvement.This case illustrates that despite favorable early healing, periodontal regenerative therapy may lead to rare late-onset complications such as external root resorption. Long-term follow-up and careful consideration of biomaterial interactions are essential when employing combination regenerative approaches.Periodontal regenerative therapy using rhFGF-2 and DBBM achieved favorable clinical outcomes for 4 years before unexpected late-onset external root resorption developed. Long-term persistence and partial separation of DBBM particles, along with the response of macrophage- or osteoclast-lineage cells, are associated with a potential for delayed resorptive pathology on adjacent root surfaces. Clinicians should recognize the possibility of late complications and carefully consider biomaterial interactions when selecting regenerative strategies and informing patients.© 2026 American Academy of Periodontology.
Septic cardiomyopathy is characterized by acute cardiac dysfunction, while sustained inflammatory and extracellular matrix remodeling may contribute to subsequent myocardial fibrosis and impaired cardiac recovery. A disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs 4 (ADAMTS4) has been linked to fibrotic remodelling, but its role in septic cardiac injury remains unclear. Here, we show that Adamts4 is upregulated in LPS-induced septic mouse hearts and is predominantly induced in cardiac fibroblasts. Using three fibroblast-lineage Adamts4 knockout models, we demonstrate that Adamts4 deletion attenuates LPS-induced cardiac dysfunction, inflammation and fibrosis, whereas Tcf21-lineage fibroblast Adamts4 overexpression aggravates these changes. Mechanistically, ADAMTS4 interacts with thrombospondin-1 (TSP1) and promotes its catalytic activity-dependent proteolytic processing. The 236-246 amino acid region of TSP1 is required for fragment generation and fibroblast activation. TSP1 processing further activates TGF-β/Smad and NF-κB signalling, promoting myofibroblast activation and extracellular matrix deposition. These findings identify ADAMTS4 as a fibroblast-centred driver of septic cardiac fibrosis and suggest that targeting the ADAMTS4-TSP1 axis may offer therapeutic potential for septic cardiomyopathy. KEY POINTS: ADAMTS4 is induced predominantly in cardiac fibroblasts after LPS challenge Fibroblast-lineage Adamts4 deletion attenuates LPS-induced cardiac dysfunction and fibrosis The TSP1 236-246 aa region is required for efficient ADAMTS4-dependent processing ADAMTS4-dependent TSP1 processing activates TGF-β/Smad and NF-κB signalling in fibroblasts.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical and Translational Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Shanghai Institute of Clinical Bioinformatics.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42547443 is a review article
Considering the increasing prevalence of pulmonary fibrosis (PF) and the increased exposure to risk factors contributing to its development, this study utilizes the bleomycin (BLM)-induced PF model to explore the potential early therapeutic strategies displayed by the bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMMSCs) and their derived exosomes. The research assessed the efficacy of two administration methods: injection and inhalation by employing a comprehensive evaluation approach, including computed tomography imaging, biochemical assays, molecular analysis, and histopathological examinations. Fifty Wistar rats were divided into 5 groups; the CON group received saline intratracheally (IT) and served as the control group, the BLM group received IT BLM (5 mg/kg), the BMMSCs group received (BLM + BMMSCs in a dose of 106 cells per rat, I/P), the Exo-INJ group received (BLM + BMMSCs-derived exosomes 100 µg per rat I/P), and the Exo-INH group received (BLM + BMMSCs-derived exosomes 100 µg by inhalation). The oxidative status indicators, glutathione (GSH), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), malondialdehyde (MDA), and the level of surfactant protein D (SP-D), a biomarker of lung damage, were evaluated. Furthermore, the level of genetic expression of inflammatory cytokines interleukin-10 (Il10), interleukin-1 beta (Il1b), pro-fibrotic and apoptotic markers, such as transforming growth factor-beta (Tgfb), Bcl-2-Associated X Protein (Bax), and fibroblast growth factor 2 (Fgf2), which functions as a growth factor to protect lung epithelial damage, were determined. Both BMMSCs and their derived exosomes exhibited antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and regenerative properties and have early therapeutic effects against PF, underlining them as promising antifibrotic candidates. In addition, the inhalation approach demonstrated superior performance in a specific metric while yielding comparable results in another. Consequently, it cannot be regarded as the optimal strategy across all evaluation criteria. Therefore, more studies are required to substantiate its applicability and explore the potential improvement that could enhance its overall efficacy.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Complexes of paracrine signals and synthesized, sulfated oligosaccharides regulate expansion and/or differentiation of human epithelial-mesenchymal cell-cell partners with lineage-stage-specific distinctions exemplified in mature hepatocytes versus organoids of stem cells. Of a bank of 53 synthesized heparan sulfate-(HS)-oligosaccharides, 28 formed triggering complexes with selected paracrine signals. Of these, the 12-mer oligosaccharides proved representative for the biological effects of a specific chain chemistry. Optimized conditions for responses to complexes are:(1) A trigger consisting of a paracrine signal bound tightly to a sulfated oligosaccharide; (2) Biologically active sulfated oligosaccharides are of minimum size of 10-12-mers and with ones up to 18-mers giving similar but enhanced responses; (3) Full cell polarization. Responses are not observed at all or not observed fully in cells in two-dimensional formats even when on complex matrix substrata; (4) Epithelial-mesenchymal cell-cell signaling; (5) Serum-free, wholly defined medium tailored to the cells' maturational lineage stage; (6) Responses are predictable by a tell, the ability of a complex to trigger significant changes in sizes of cell nuclei within ∼18 hours. The complexes offer nuanced regulatory controls of growth and differentiation of organs and tissues. Representative triggering complexes [HS-oligosaccharide + paracrine signal] include ones regulating: Self-renewal: fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF2) bound to an HS-oligosaccharide containing [NS2S] or WNT3A bound to [NS2S6S3S]. Hypertrophy: vascular epithelial growth factor-A (VEGF-A) bound to an HS-oligosaccharidecontaining [NS2S6S3S or NS2S6S]. Expansion in parallel with differentiation: various complexes with a paracrine signal and an oligosaccharide containing [NS2S6S3S]; representative paracrine signals include FGF2, hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), and others. Newly prepared, synthesized chondroitin sulfate-(CS)-oligosaccharides also form triggering complexes with biological responses requiring similar conditions as those for HS-oligosaccharides. Ongoing research efforts are surveying the specific biological responses to particular complexes of CS-oligosaccharides and paracrine signals.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
A cell line from Korean rockfish, Sebastes schlegelii muscle was successfully established and characterized. Primary cultures were initiated by enzymatic digestion and maintained in Leibovitz-15 (L-15) medium supplemented with 20% fetal bovine serum (FBS). The cells were continuously sub-cultured and maintained in L-15 with 10% FBS, 10 ng/mL fibroblast growth factor-2 (bFGF), and 1% antibiotics (penicillin/streptomycin and antibiotic/antimycotic solution) for more than 60 passages over 10 months, and named Korean rockfish muscle Sebastes schlegelii-1 (KRMSS-1) cell line. Under experimental conditions, best growth was achieved at 24 °C with 20% FBS concentration and 10 ng/mL bFGF addition. Cryopreservation using 5% dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) resulted in an 85-90% recovery rate after three months of freezing. Amplification of a CO1 fragment of the expected size provided supporting evidence for the rockfish origin of the KRMSS-1 cell line. Myogenic capacity was checked following serum reduction to 2% horse serum, resulting in myocyte alignment and cell fusion. During progression of the differentiation process, myosin heavy chain (MyHC) immunofluorescence staining revealed positive fluorescence distributed along elongated and enlarged cytoplasmic regions, indicating myogenic capacity. Differentiation success was further confirmed by increased protein expression of myogenin, desmin, and MyHC. Activation of intracellular PI3K/Akt/mTor and MEK/ERK pathways suggest a potential association between pathway activation and the differentiation process. Lastly, an increased proportion of cells in the G0/G1 phase at day 3 post-induction confirmed cell-cycle withdrawal. Collectively, this study established a new teleost muscle cell line with myogenic potential, providing a new model for muscle cell physiology research and for future aquaculture biotechnology applications.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
The formation of keloids is influenced by mechanical stretch. Thrombospondin-1 (TSP-1) is identified as a tension-sensitive protein. However, the relationship between TSP-1 and keloid formation induced by mechanical stretch remains unknown.A simple customized mechanical stretch device was used for the application of homogeneous equibiaxial stretch (HES). Using Western blot and RT-PCR, the optimal stretch strength and duration were determined. Regarding the functional changes induced by stretch in keloid fibroblasts (Kfbs), cell function assays were used. The relationship between TSP-1 expression and stretch-induced scar formation in human and animal models was investigated using immunohistochemistry. The knockdown of TSP-1 in fibroblasts served as a reverse test.Optimal HES (oHES) could be achieved with four rotations of the screws on our mechanical stretch device, resulting in a significant increase in vimentin, Col I, and fibronectin expression in Kfbs on Day 5. Additionally, oHES significantly promoted cell proliferation and migration. oHES resulted in the upregulation of TSP-1 expression in both in vitro and in vivo experimental settings. The inhibition of TSP-1 may attenuate oHES-induced keloid formation through the Akt and GSK-3β/β-catenin signaling pathways.The results confirmed that oHES promoted keloid formation by increasing Col I expression through TSP-1-mediated Akt and GSK-3β/β-catenin signaling pathways.© 2025 The Author(s). Health Science Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Poor tendon-bone healing is a major challenge after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR). TFRD, the total flavonoids of Rhizoma Drynariae, has pharmacological effects in promoting bone formation, but it remains less understood whether it accelerates tendon-bone healing by regulating the osteogenic differentiation of tendon-derived stem cells (TDSCs). TDSCs were isolated from the Achilles tendons of rats and characterized for their stem cell properties through flow cytometry and multilineage differentiation assays. The effects of TFRD on TDSC proliferation, migration, and osteogenic differentiation were evaluated using the cell counting kit-8 assay, scratch wound healing assays, Alizarin Red S staining, and Western blot analysis. Gene and protein expression levels associated with the transforming growth factor-β/bone morphogenetic protein (TGF-β/BMP) signaling pathway were assessed by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction and Western blot. A rat ACLR model was created and divided into four experimental groups: Sham, ACLR, TFRD, and TFRD + Noggin. Tendon-bone healing was analyzed using hematoxylin and eosin staining, Masson's trichrome staining, bone mineral density measurements, and immunohistochemistry. Noggin was used to inhibit BMP signaling for pathway validation. TFRD (50-100 μg/mL) significantly enhanced the proliferation, migration, and osteogenic differentiation of TDSCs, and increased the expression of key osteogenic markers, including runt-related transcription factor 2 (RUNX2) and alkaline phosphatase (ALP). Mechanistically, TFRD activated the TGF-β/BMP signaling pathway, leading to elevated levels of TGF-β1, BMP-2, and phosphorylated Smad1/5/8. Moreover, TGF-β1 extended the duration of BMP-2 signaling and suppressed Noggin expression. The osteogenic effects of TFRD were diminished when Noggin was applied, indicating its role in modulating the BMP pathway. In vivo, TFRD significantly improved collagen fiber alignment, calcification, and bone mineral density at the tendon-bone junction, while also upregulating RUNX2 and ALP expression. TFRD promotes osteogenic differentiation of TDSCs by activating the TGF-β/BMP signaling pathway, improves tendon-bone healing after ACLR, and provides experimental support for its clinical application.© 2026. The Society for In Vitro Biology.
Patient-derived organoids (PDOs) can recapitulate selected features of original tumors and provide a useful system for studying epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) in three-dimensional culture. Nonetheless, the protocol to generate EOC-PDOs has not yet been standardized. We therefore empirically refined the culture conditions and medium composition, considering the protocol effective when EOC PDOs were successfully established in five consecutive attempts. Tissue and ascites samples (from 29 and 8 patients, respectively) were used and the Syringe-extruded Organoid Basement membrane extract Assembly (SOBA) fragment culture method applied. Selected similarities in cell morphology, marker expression, and detectable alterations between organoids and patient-matched tumor tissue were assessed using pairwise comparisons. The refined workflow used a culture medium containing recombinant human R-Spondin 1 protein (250 ng/mL), Noggin, and NRG1, factors implicated in organoid maintenance and expansion. Ultimately, 31 EOC organoid lines successfully generated from 82.8% (24/29) of tissue and 87.5% (7/8) of ascites samples. The SOBA technique increased the 10 day PDO yield by 2.75-fold relative to the surface-attached dome method (p < 0.0001). This empirically refined workflow can be adjusted for specific experimental applications; however, further validation across larger and clinically diverse EOC cohorts is required.© 2026. The Author(s).
Demineralized bone matrix (DBM) is widely used as an alternative to autografts for repairing bone defects, but its clinical efficacy is limited by poor retention at the defect site and inadequate osteogenic capacity. Here, we developed a multifunctional carrier system aimed at improving the capacity of DBM by utilizing nanoclay-based self-assembly along with cell-derived exosome mimetics (EMs). EMs were derived from mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) osteogenically induced in spheroids and were functionalized with bisphosphonates (BP) to assemble a stable gel network with laponite nanoclays via BP-nanoclay edge interactions. The resulting self-assembled nanoclay gel exhibited excellent injectability, moldability, and self-healing properties, even when loaded with a high concentration of DBM, and supported MSC osteogenic differentiation. We further enhanced the potency of DBM-mediated osteogenesis and bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signaling in the nanoclay gel by incorporating BP-functionalized EMs (EM-BPs) loaded with miR-200c that can target BMP antagonist noggin. Lastly, we validated the bone regeneration efficacy of DBM-loaded nanoclay gels in comparison to commercially available DBM putties using a mouse calvarial defect model. This approach presents a versatile nanoclay gel carrier platform that overcomes the limitations of current DBM formulations and provides a promising strategy for improved bone repair.
The intestinal porcine epithelial cell line (IPEC-J2) is a nontransformed jejunal model derived from unsuckled piglets. It is increasingly used in gut physiology research, yet its application to nutrient absorption remains underexplored. Four media types were assessed for their ability to support IPEC-J2 barrier maturation and permeability: Dulbecco's modified Eagle medium/Ham's F-12 with 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS10), 10% porcine serum (PS10), 5% porcine serum (PS5) supplemented with Wnt3a-R-spondin-Noggin conditioned medium (PS5+L-WRN), and PS5 with epidermal growth factor and insulin-transferrin-selenium (PS5+EGF+ITS). Culture medium influenced epithelial phenotype, with more than a 30-fold range in transepithelial electrical resistance (TEER), which plateaued by day 12. PS10 supported a balanced profile, characterized by intermediate TEER (2395.00 ± 485.51 Ω × cm2), lowest lactulose and mannitol permeability (p < 0.05), high lactate dehydrogenase activity (p < 0.05 vs. PS5+L-WRN and FBS10), enhanced membrane localization of tight junction proteins (p < 0.05 vs. PS5+EGF+ITS), and reduced fibroblast marker S100A4 (p < 0.05 vs. PS5+EGF+ITS). Treatment with digested infant milk formula did not compromise barrier integrity in PS10-cultured IPEC-J2 monolayers and enabled transport of free amino acids to the basolateral compartment. These findings support IPEC-J2 as an alternative to Caco-2 cells for applications in infant nutrition research in vitro.© 2026 The Author(s). Molecular Nutrition & Food Research published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Retinoic acid, acting through RAR/RXR nuclear receptors, is required for neuronal differentiation in Xenopus laevis. Bexarotene, characterised as a pan-RXR agonist, reduces the symptoms of Alzheimer's disease in mouse models by clearing amyloid plaque and by promoting neurogenesis. In this paper, we show that RXR-initiated bexarotene signalling generates additional neurons both during normal X. laevis development and in ectodermal explants in which bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signalling is inhibited. Differential gene expression analysis between ectodermal explants taken from uninjected embryos and from embryos co-injected with mRNA that expresses Noggin, a BMP antagonist, and RXRβ identifies genes mediating the transition from an epidermal to a neural fate. The explants express genes associated with an anterior neural fate, but not a neuronal fate. The addition of bexarotene to equivalent co-injected explants activates genes that promote neuronal differentiation and posterior character, including genes of the canonical Wnt signalling pathway. Xenopus ectodermal explants therefore provide a simple and efficient tool to identify novel retinoid agonists that promote neuronal differentiation. The genes expressed in response to bexarotene are consistent with a pathway to neuronal differentiation allied to standard retinoid signalling.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Most rabbit embryonic stem (rbES) cell lines established in embryonic fibroblast feeder layer systems predominantly exhibit pluripotency features restricted to a "primed" state, which hinders their directed differentiation into reproductive germ cells and limits their capacity for germline transmission.We developed a novel 3C system containing IWP2, DZNep, and TSA in iFLY medium supplemented with basic fibroblast growth factor, human leukemia inhibitory factor, and Noggin. Pluripotency maintenance and germline differentiation were validated by gene expression analysis and induction with BMP4, stem cell factor, and epidermal growth factor.The 3C system efficiently maintained the pluripotency of rbES cells with stable expression of core pluripotent genes. These cells showed upregulated expression of partial naïve markers and expressed formative pluripotent markers. Moreover, 3C cultured rbES cells were successfully differentiated into primordial germ cell like cells (PGCLCs).The 3C culture system confers rbES cells with naïve pluripotency and self renewal ability, as well as strong potential for directed germ cell differentiation. This system provides a reliable stem cell platform for genetic modification and breeding in livestock.Copyright © 2026 Chen, Liu, Li, Ullah, Gao, Wang, Liu and Du.
Studies on hearing loss indicate that the regulation of signaling pathways (including Notch, Wnt, FGF and BMP) can induce the regeneration of mammalian hair cells. As one of the potential vectors of gene therapy, adenovirus is hoped to resolve non-genetic hearing loss for its high transfection rate to supporting cells. The role of adenovirus-mediated regulation of the Notch, FGF, and BMP signaling pathways in hair cell regeneration warrants further investigation.We employed adenoviruses to selectively inhibit the Notch (Notch1-RNAi-AD) or FGF (FGFR3-RNAi-AD) signaling pathways individually, as well as to simultaneously inhibit both Notch and BMP signaling pathways (Notch1-Noggin-AD).Show that inhibiting the Notch pathway significantly increased the number of hair cells through transdifferentiation, which occurred at the expense of supporting cell loss. Following the inhibition of FGF signaling pathway, a small amount of cell proliferation was observed in the sensory epithelium in the apex of the cochlea. In contrast, after infection with Notch1-RNAi-AD and FGFR3-RNAi-AD, the number of hair cells increased significantly, and transdifferentiation and supporting cells proliferation also increased simultaneously in the cochlea. Finally, simultaneous infection of Notch1-Noggin-AD and FGFR3-RNAi-AD further increased the number of hair cells from transdifferentiation and proliferation.Here, we used adenoviruses to regulate the activity of signaling pathways to induce the regeneration of cochlear hair cells in neonatal mice explants and achieved some expected results. Our study suggests that regulation of the FGF signaling pathway induces the proliferation of supporting cells, which is different from transdifferentiation by Notch inhibition, and the co-regulation of the Notch, FGF and BMP signaling pathways can promote more significant hair cell regeneration from supporting cell proliferation, followed by transdifferentiation, and avoid the large loss of supporting cells.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Noggin is a glycosylated protein that acts as an antagonist of bone morphogenetic proteins and has been implicated in astrogliosis and functional recovery after spinal cord injury (SCI). Although Noggin is known to regulate astrocytic responses, its role in reactive astrogliosis and glial scar formation after SCI remains unclear. Under normal conditions, Noggin is expressed in astrocytes in the white matter of the mouse spinal cord. In this study, we investigated the role of Noggin in reactive astrogliosis and glial scar formation after SCI.We first examined the expression pattern of Noggin in the mouse spinal cord after SCI. To assess the functional role of Noggin, we used Nestin-Cre; Nogginflox/flox conditional knockout mice, in which Noggin is conditionally deleted from astrocytes and neurons in the spinal cord. In addition, neutralizing anti-Noggin antibodies were continuously administered to the lesion site using micro-osmotic pumps. GFAP expression and motor function after SCI were then evaluated.As a result, we found that Noggin was upregulated in reactive astrocytes after SCI, suggesting its involvement in the injury response. Conditional deletion of Noggin markedly suppressed glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) expression after SCI. Consistently, local administration of neutralizing anti-Noggin antibodies also reduced GFAP expression around the lesion site. However, anti-Noggin antibody treatment deteriorated motor function after SCI.These findings suggest that Noggin is an important regulator of reactive astrogliosis and contributes to glial scar formation after SCI. Although suppression of Noggin reduced GFAP expression and attenuated glial scar formation, it did not improve functional recovery. Rather, motor function was worsened, indicating that reduced glial scar formation may not necessarily be beneficial after SCI. Noggin-mediated astrogliosis may therefore play a protective role in the injured spinal cord.Copyright © 2026 Han, Wakayama, Li, Liang, Li, Ping, Arima, Sato, Matsuyama and Yamagishi.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42300785
Growth factor signaling governs essential cellular processes, and its precision relies on interactions with heparan sulfate on the cell surface. The sulfation pattern of heparan sulfate dictates its capacity to bind specific growth factors and their receptors, thereby controlling the signaling strength and specificity. Extracellular endosulfatases, including sulfatase 1 and sulfatase 2, further modulate these interactions by selectively removing sulfate groups from defined regions of heparan sulfate. Although these enzymes are known to influence developmental- and disease-related signaling, their direct effects on growth factor recognition have remained unclear. Using a panel of bioengineered heparan sulfate conjugates with defined sulfation compositions, this study examines how the structural features of heparan sulfate govern its regulation by the sulfatases. By tracking enzyme binding and catalytic remodeling, we found that both enzymes rely on two coordinated mechanisms: catalytic desulfation of heparan sulfate and competitive binding that transiently prevents growth factor association. The balance between catalytic remodeling and competitive binding depends on the sulfation characteristics of the heparan sulfate substrate and the identity of the growth factor and differs between the two enzyme isoforms. These findings provide a new framework for understanding how extracellular sulfatases shape growth factor signaling in both development and disease.
Endothelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EndMT) has emerged as a pathophysiological process responsible for various chronic vascular diseases, particularly atherosclerosis. However, the molecular pathways that govern EndMT are poorly defined. This study aimed to investigate whether sulfatase-1 (SULF1) plays a role in oxidative stress-induced EndMT and atherosclerosis.The cellular composition of the carotid atherosclerotic core was analysed using a single-cell transcriptome, followed by in vivo and in vitro validation of the underlying molecular mechanism. Single-cell transcriptome analysis revealed that SULF1 plays important roles in both EndMT and atherosclerosis. Additionally, oxidative stress promoted the upregulation of SULF1 expression in endothelial cells and induced EndMT. Notably, SULF1 overexpression promoted EndMT and exacerbated plaque instability, whereas SULF1 silencing promoted endothelial protein expression and mitigated the increase in mesenchymal proteins, effectively blocking EndMT. Subsequent experiments revealed that SULF1 induced this transition through HMOX1-induced iron overload, which further activated the WNT/SLUG pathway and promoted EndMT. Aerobic glycolysis increased in endothelium exposed to oxidative stress, accompanied by elevated lactate levels, which increased histone H3 lysine 18 lactylation (H3K18la). Mechanistically, oxidative stress significantly decreased the expression of histone deacetylase (HDAC) 3, which precisely regulated H3K18la enrichment at the SULF1 promoter, thereby activating SULF1 transcription and promoting EndMT.This study highlights the critical role of SULF1 in EndMT and reveals precise crosstalk between metabolism and epigenetics via H3K18la by HDAC3 during EndMT-induced atherogenesis, offering novel therapeutic targets for atherosclerosis.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
BACKGROUND: Women with metastatic breast cancer have a disheartening 5-year survival rate of only 28%. CREB3L1 (cAMP responsive element binding protein 3 like 1) is a transcription factor and tumor suppressor which is downregulated in ~ 30% of human breast cancers, with higher frequencies in more advanced metastatic breast tumors. METHODS: To identify new targets contributing to metastatic properties, we carried out a differential gene expression analysis between highly metastatic breast cancer cells with low CREB3L1 and the corresponding lines expressing HA-CREB3L1. This analysis was carried out across three different subtypes of breast cancer cells (T47D, HCC1954 and HCC1806; all CREB3L1-low). Key signaling pathways and cell functions most impacted by CREB3L1 expression were identified using a bioinformatics analysis. Specific genes consistently upregulated in the metastatic cells were knocked down to assess their impact on cell migration, cell invasion, growth in soft agar across in multiple breast cancer lines. The effect of knocking down the top metastatic gene identified in this study was further tested using in vivo mouse model of primary breast tumor growth in the mammary fat pad, and metastatic colonization of the lung. RESULTS: Breast cancer cells with low CREB3L1 expression showed upregulation of metastasis and integrin signaling pathways and enhanced cell movement, migration, invasion functions, consistent with its known role as a tumor suppressor. CLIC3 (chloride intracellular channel 3), a protein with roles in integrin recycling, cell migration and invasion, was found to be consistently upregulated in CREB3L1-low cells and in all subtypes of breast tumors. Increased CLIC3 expression was associated with poor patient survival. Knockdown of CLIC3 in several cell lines reduced cell migration, invasion and anchorage-independent growth in soft agar, effects that could be rescued by co-transfection of an shRNA-insensitive CLIC3 plasmid. CLIC3 knockdown also decreased tumor growth and blocked metastases in a mouse xenograft model of breast cancer. CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that CLIC3 has a key role in promoting cell migration, invasion and growth in soft agar, and CLIC3 inhibitors may be a viable treatment option for breast cancer.
Background: Fibrotic remodelling of the lamina cribrosa (LC) is a defining pathological feature of glaucomatous optic neuropathy and contributes to progressive optic nerve head deformation and axonal vulnerability. LC cells from glaucomatous donors exhibit a myofibroblast-like phenotype characterised by excessive extracellular matrix (ECM) production, a process associated with chronic cellular stress. cAMP responsive element-binding protein 3-like 1 (CREB3L1) is an endoplasmic reticulum-resident transcription factor implicated in stress-responsive regulation of collagen synthesis and matrix homeostasis. The role of CREB3L1 in glaucomatous LC cells, however, remains poorly defined. Methods: Primary human LC cells derived from donors with confirmed glaucoma (GLC; n = 3) and age-matched non-glaucomatous controls (NLC; n = 3) were examined. CREB3L1 expression was assessed at the mRNA and protein levels using quantitative RT-PCR and Western immunoblotting. The functional effects of CREB3L1 suppression were evaluated using siRNA-mediated knockdown in GLC cells, followed by analysis of ECM gene transcription (α-smooth muscle actin, collagen type I alpha 1, fibronectin) and cellular metabolic activity using an MTS assay. Results: CREB3L1 mRNA and protein expression were significantly elevated in GLC cells compared with NLC cells. siRNA-mediated knockdown of CREB3L1 effectively reduced its expression in GLC cells and was associated with significant suppression of profibrotic ECM gene transcription. In addition, CREB3L1 knockdown resulted in a marked reduction in cellular metabolic activity in glaucomatous LC cells. Conclusions: These findings identify CREB3L1 as a regulator of ECM-associated gene expression and cellular behaviour in glaucomatous lamina cribrosa cells. While preliminary, the data suggest that CREB3L1 may contribute to pathological fibrotic remodelling at the optic nerve head. Further mechanistic and in vivo studies will be required to determine whether modulation of CREB3L1-mediated pathways represents a viable therapeutic strategy in glaucoma.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the major cancers that threaten human health. Although the CRC census has been gradually popularized, due to the lack of obvious symptoms in the early stage, it is difficult to detect, and the rapid progression and strong metastasis after onset result in a high incidence of CRC. Therefore, the current research aims to identify more powerful molecular targets and biomarkers for the diagnosis, treatment and clinical research of CRC.The limma package was used to analyze datasets GSE4107, GSE110223, and GSE110224 from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in CRC. Functional enrichment analysis of DEGs was performed using Gene Ontology (GO) and the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG). To further screen for key genes, the DEGs were submitted to the STRING database to construct a protein-protein interaction (PPI) network. Clinical data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database were used to analyze the role of key genes in CRC. Key DEGs were validated using immunohistochemistry, Western blot, and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR). Survival analysis of key DEGs was performed using the GEPIA database, and survival curves were plotted. The expression levels of DEGs were quantitatively analyzed in samples from 80 CRC patients and 80 healthy controls. Machine learning algorithms were applied to analyze key DEGs and construct a diagnostic model for CRC. A receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve was plotted to evaluate the performance of the diagnostic model.A total of 981 (GSE4107), 155 (GSE110223), and 280 (GSE110224) DEGs were identified from the GEO databases, among which 152 DEGs were expressed in at least two datasets. GO and KEGG enrichment analyses revealed that these DEGs were widely involved in biological processes such as the muscle system process and extracellular matrix organization. Downregulated genes were involved in pathways including bile secretion and retinol metabolism. PPI network analysis identified 20 overlapping genes, among which CXCL8 and SULF1 were hub up-regulated genes, while PBLD and 17 others were hub down-regulated genes. mRNA-Seq data and RT-qPCR validation showed that CXCL8 and SULF1 were significantly upregulated in CRC samples, whereas PBLD expression levels were higher in normal tissues compared to CRC tissues. Kaplan-Meier curve analysis indicated that high mRNA expression of SULF1 was significantly associated with poorer overall survival in CRC patients, while high mRNA expression of LRRC19 was associated with better overall survival. In contrast, the mRNA expression of CXCL8 and PBLD showed no significant association with overall survival. Gene expression of SULF1 was significantly correlated with disease-free survival, whereas the gene expression of LRRC19, CXCL8, and PBLD showed no significant correlation with disease-free survival. Immunohistochemical analysis further validated the expression levels of SULF1, CXCL8, and PBLD. The machine learning model demonstrated high efficacy in assisting CRC diagnosis, with an AUC value exceeding 0.8, and the most effective model achieved an AUC value greater than 0.9. Decision curve and calibration curve analyses further confirmed its significant clinical net benefit and good consistency.These four identified DEGs (SULF1, CXCL8, LRRC19, and PBLD) may contribute to the treatment of CRC as a new therapeutic target and provide valuable biomarkers for cancer metastasis research.The four identified DEGs were combined with machine learning to construct a CRC diagnostic model with high clinical application value.© 2025 Li et al.
Vasculogenic mimicry (VM), a process in which cancer cells form endothelial cell-independent vascular networks, is a hallmark of tumor aggressiveness in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) and supports tumor growth and metastasis. This study aims to identify and validate key genes associated with VM formation in LUAD, and to elucidate their functional roles and clinical significance.Transcriptomic data from LUAD samples were analyzed using differential expression analysis (DEA) and weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) to identify VM-associated genes. Machine learning algorithms were applied to refine the selection and identify hub genes. Functional enrichment and immune infiltration analyses were performed. The role of SULF1 in VM was further validated through in vitro and in vivo experiments.We identified 10,810 differentially expressed genes. WGCNA revealed 101 VM-associated genes, predominantly within the "yellow" and "brown" modules. Machine learning pinpointed three key regulators: downregulated decorin (DCN) and upregulated nucleoplasmin 3 (NPM3) and sulfatase 1 (SULF1). Functional enrichment analysis highlighted their involvement in extracellular matrix (ECM) organization and ribosomal pathways. Immune infiltration analysis indicated a positive correlation between DCN and immune cell presence, whereas NPM3 and SULF1 showed negative correlations. Critically, SULF1 overexpression promoted VM formation in vitro by enhancing cell migration and invasion, mediated through the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)/transforming growth factor beta (TGF-β)/Vimentin signaling axis, and accelerated tumor growth in vivo.We identified DCN, NPM3, and SULF1 as key biomarkers of VM in LUAD. SULF1, in particular, plays a central role in driving VM formation and tumor progression. These findings offer novel mechanistic insights and highlight potential therapeutic targets for LUAD treatment.© 2025. The Author(s).
In a complex environment such as that in a diabetic foot ulcer (DFU), multiple factors, including cross talk between distinct cell types of the affected tissue, play a significant role. We identified a transcription factor (TF) cocktail that induces a transition from nonhealing to healing states across multiple cell types.Thirty-three skin and wound single-cell RNA-sequencing samples (85,928 cells) from patients with diabetes with healing or nonhealing DFU were analyzed (GSE165816). The relative activity of cell type-specific TF in healing versus nonhealing DFU was compared, and the cumulative additive effect of different TF cocktails was assessed.We used a cumulative additive-effect approach to identify five transcription factors, FOS Like 2, AP-1 Transcription Factor Subunit (FOSL2), CAMP Responsive Element Binding Protein 3 Like 1, RELB Proto-Oncogene, NF-KB Subunit, ETS Proto-Oncogene 1 (ETS1), and X-Box Binding Protein 1, whose targets include 66.5% of pro-healing genes and only 12.5% of anti-healing genes across all cell types. In vascular endothelial cells, this TF panel accounted for 95% of vasculature-development genes; in myeloid cells, it regulated 85% of antimicrobial-response genes. In silico knockout of ETS1 or FOSL2 shifted cells toward nonhealing states, whereas Nuclear Receptor Subfamily 3 Group C Member 1 knockout shifted endothelial cells, fibroblasts, and myeloid cells toward healing-associated state.This work recognizes a TF panel that is likely to have therapeutic value in promoting healing in nonhealing DFU.In this work, we identified a set of candidate TFs with the potential to induce a cell state transition favoring a switch from nonhealing to healing outcomes in patients with nonhealing DFU. Overall, our gene regulatory network-driven TF cocktail provides a rational blueprint for reprogramming DFU cell states and paves the way toward targeted regenerative therapies.
For proper locomotion, bone and muscle development must be tightly coordinated. Skeletal muscle secretes myokines that affect tissues, including bone. We previously showed that maternal exercise (ME) enhances fetal muscle development through apelin signaling. However, whether mitochondrial dysfunction impairs fetal skeletal development and whether ME mitigates these defects remain unclear. Heterozygous POLG mutant (Polgmut/+) mice were used to examine the effects of ME and apelin signaling on fetal osteogenesis. Pregnant Polgmut/+ females underwent treadmill exercise, and apelin receptor knockdown (ApjKD) mice and maternal apelin supplementation were used to evaluate apelin signaling. POLG mutation impaired fetal osteogenesis and disrupted skeletal morphology. RNA-seq revealed downregulation of pathways related to cytoskeletal organization and mitochondrial function. ME was associated with upregulation of osteogenesis and development. ME increased apelin abundance in maternal-fetal circulation and tissues, including fetal muscle and bone. Importantly, apelin administration increased fetal osteogenesis in POLG mutation, whereas ApjKD reduced osteogenic signaling in fetal bone and myogenic gene expression in fetal muscle. Apelin also enhanced mitochondrial respiration in fetal bone-derived osteogenic cells. Mechanistically, ME-induced apelin signaling was associated with increased mitochondrial biogenesis and enhanced ATF4-RUNX2 regulatory signaling. Collectively, these findings suggest that ME-induced apelin signaling contributes to fetal skeletal development under mitochondrial dysfunction.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42561932
Skipped: PubMed ID 42552064 is a review article
One of the key regulatory mechanisms in adipose biology is the NAD+/SIRT axis, which is disrupted in conditions such as obesity and insulin resistance. In recent years, increasing attention has been directed toward understanding the role of NAD+ in adipose biology, including through gene expression analyses. However, most published studies have focused on a limited set of preselected genes, and an integrated analysis of genes associated with NAD+ alterations in adipose tissue is lacking. The aim of this study was to conduct a systematic literature search to identify rodent studies reporting significant modulation of NAD+ levels in adipose tissue, along with significant changes in gene expression within the same adipose depot. The extracted genes were then subjected to integrative functional bioinformatic analyses to identify significantly enriched canonical pathways, protein-protein interactions, master regulators, and associations with human diseases. We identified 17 studies, from which 113 unique NAD+-associated protein coding genes were extracted. Pathway enrichment analysis revealed multiple canonical pathways significantly associated with these genes, including thermogenesis, the PPAR signaling pathway, the AMPK signaling pathway, and adipogenesis. In addition, several cellular pathways were identified for which direct experimental evidence of NAD+ involvement is currently lacking, such as the apelin signaling pathway and the relaxin signaling pathway. Protein-protein interaction analysis revealed three distinct protein clusters related to positive regulation of cold-induced thermogenesis, inflammation, and cellular respiration. Master regulator analysis identified several well-established regulators, such as leptin, PRDM16, PPARGC1A, AMP, glucose, fructose, and rosiglitazone, as well as regulators that have not yet been directly investigated in the context of NAD+ function in adipose biology. Finally, analysis of disease associations of NAD+-associated protein coding genes revealed links to nutritional and cardiometabolic diseases. In conclusion, this study highlights both well-established and previously unexplored canonical pathways and regulators of biological processes associated with the role of NAD+ in adipose biology, thereby identifying potential targets for future experimental investigation. Additionally, our systematic literature search revealed a notable lack of studies employing global transcriptomic approaches, as well as multi-omics studies with coupled bioinformatic analyses, which are essential for obtaining an in-depth and comprehensive understanding of the role of NAD+ in adipose biology.Copyright © 2026 Postolov, Milenkovic and Ruskovska.
This study aimed to evaluate serum apelin levels in obese adolescents and to investigate their association with hepatic steatosis and metabolic risk parameters.This prospective case-control study included 75 obese adolescents and 68 age- and sex-matched healthy controls. Anthropometric measurements, biochemical parameters, and serum apelin levels were assessed. Hepatic steatosis was evaluated using ultrasonography. Multivariable logistic regression analysis including age, sex, waist circumference, and serum apelin levels was performed.Serum apelin levels were significantly lower in obese adolescents compared with controls. Although apelin levels tended to be lower in participants with hepatic steatosis, the difference did not reach statistical significance. No significant correlations were observed between apelin levels and insulin resistance, lipid parameters, or liver enzymes. Multivariable analysis did not demonstrate an independent association between apelin levels and hepatic steatosis.Serum apelin levels were significantly lower in obese adolescents than in healthy controls. Although apelin levels tended to be lower in participants with hepatic steatosis, no independent association was demonstrated in this cohort. Larger prospective studies are needed to clarify the potential relationship between apelin and hepatic steatosis in pediatric obesity.© 2026 Walter de Gruyter GmbH, Berlin/Boston.
SARS-CoV-2 infection leads to extrapulmonary complications in multiple organs, including the brain, both in the short-term and long-term. The neurological manifestation of SARS-CoV-2 infection ranges from benign signs like loss of smell and loss of taste to severe complications like encephalitis, stroke, and exacerbation of Alzheimer's disease (AD) progression. Pericytes are mural cells of the brain vasculature that help maintain the blood-brain barrier (BBB), regulate cerebral blood flow (CBF), modulate neuroinflammation, and clear toxic materials, including amyloid beta. Pericytes express ACE2, the receptor for SARS-CoV-2, and therefore may be targeted by either direct virus infection or virus-induced inflammatory cytokines induced by the virus in the brain. To further study the effects of SARS-CoV-2 on pericytes and BBB integrity, the long-term effects of SARS-CoV-2 infection on brain pericytes, inflammation, and other neuropathological complications were analyzed in mice. K18 (human ACE2 transgenic) mice were infected with 103 PFU of SARS-CoV-2 (delta strain), and the brains were analyzed at 6, 14, and 30 days post-infection (dpi). A significant reduction in the weight of infected mice was observed by 6 dpi. Viral nucleocapsid protein and infectious SARS-CoV-2 were observed in the brains of all mice by 6 dpi, and in some mice by 14 dpi, but not at 30 dpi. This observation suggests viral neurotropism with subsequent clearance at later timepoints. Despite virus clearance, the levels of inflammatory mediators, including TNF-α and IFN-γ were significantly elevated up to 30 dpi. We also observed a significant reduction in the level of brain pericytes by 14 dpi up to 30 dpi. Importantly, an increase was observed in the level of Friend Leukemia Integration 1 (FLI-1), a transcription factor known to promote pericyte cell death, from 14 dpi up to 30 dpi. The level of amyloid beta 1-42 was elevated in the brain of infected mice at 6 dpi, and this was maintained up to 30 dpi, and there was a decrease in neuronal density from 14 to 30 dpi. Furthermore, we observed an increased expression of Alzheimer's disease (AD)-associated genes like PSEN1, BACE1, and APP. Furthermore, there was increased activation of several neurodegenerative pathways, including "G alpha (z) signaling pathway", "Apelin muscle signaling pathway", and "G beta-gamma (Gβγ) signaling", in the brains of infected mice compared to control mice. Collectively, the observed neuropathology and unique molecular markers of neurodegenerative disease progression provide a novel mechanism by which COVID-19 may promote dementia/AD by contributing to pericyte loss and BBB dysfunction during infection.
In this study, an exploratory transcriptomic investigation was conducted to evaluate the feasibility of using feather transcriptomics to detect sex differences and gene responses to physiological changes in chickens. Feathers represent a promising non-invasive biological source of RNA, as the feather pulp of growing feathers contains living cells capable of active transcription. Growing feathers were collected from 150-day-old male and female chickens (Bionda Piemontese, a slow-growing breed) raised under a free-range system and fed two finisher diets differing in lipid content: low-lipid (LL, ether extract 3.6%) and high-lipid (HL, ether extract 9.3%) diets. RNA was extracted from feather pulp, and 12 pools were subjected to whole RNA-Seq analysis. The study was designed as 2 × 2 factorial experiments investigating the effects of diet and sex on gene expression. A total of 17,360 transcripts were detected and used for downstream analyses. Differential gene expression and functional enrichment analyses were performed. The main effects of diet and sex were estimated with an additive design using the DEseq2 package, while for the sex-specific diet analyses, subgroup comparisons were conducted on the RaNA-Seq platform. The analysis of the main effect of diet reveals that three genes associated with ether lipid metabolism (PLA2G10, PLA2G4F, and ENPP6) were upregulated in chickens fed the HL diet. In roosters, HL feeding significantly altered the expression of APOA1 and SLC27A4, suggesting an effect on lipid transport and metabolic regulation within the PPAR signaling pathway. In contrast, hens showed differential expression primarily in pathways related to apelin signaling, extracellular matrix remodeling, and cardiovascular function, rather than classical lipid metabolism pathways; additionally, gene set enrichment analysis indicated a limited enrichment of linoleic acid metabolism, suggesting secondary involvement of lipid metabolic processes. These findings are consistent with those in the literature reporting sex-related differences between males and females. The results further suggest that transcriptomic responses to dietary lipid supplementation can be investigated through the expression of selected candidate genes in feather pulp. Among the genes identified, PLA2G10, PLA2G4F, ENPP6, APOA1, and SLC27A4 emerged as potential molecular markers associated with dietary treatment, and the importance of sex-dependent transcriptional responses was highlighted. In conclusion, this study demonstrates the potential of feather pulp as a viable source of RNA for transcriptomic analyses in live chickens, providing a minimally invasive alternative to conventional tissue sampling. These preliminary results also support the hypothesis that feathers represent a practical and ethically favorable tissue for future nutrigenomic and genetic improvement studies, ultimately supporting more sustainable poultry production.
In healthy dairy cows, a puerperal transient inflammation of the endometrium is necessary for the clearance of placental debris and bacteria and to achieve complete uterine involution. However, metabolic, immune and inflammatory disturbances leading to uterine dysbiosis may disturb the control of this physiological inflammation, and allow the establishment of metritis. There is a gap in knowledge, regarding the pro-resolving mechanisms controlling the puerperal endometrial physiologic inflammation, and their putative disturbance behind the establishment of metritis. This observational retrospective cohort study investigated the involvement of macrophages, adipokines and Specialized Pro-Resolving Mediators (SPM) in postpartum dairy cows with strict phenotypes (clinical, metabolic, fertility and milk yield) of healthy puerperium (n = 20) or puerperal metritis (n = 20). Diagnosis of puerperal metritis occurred at 9 ± 4 (Mean ± SD) days postpartum (DPP). Blood (at 2, 10, 21, 30 and 42 DPP) and uterine fluid (at 21 DPP) samples were collected for measurement of SPM and adipokines, and endometrial cytologic parameters were evaluated (at 21 and 42 DPP). Results below are expressed as Mean ± SEM. In early postpartum (2-10 DPP), cows with puerperal metritis had greater plasma concentrations (pg/mL) of PGE2 (2 DPP - 13.0 ± 1.7 vs. 5.3 ± 1.7) and lesser concentrations of SPM (5-HETE: 2 DPP - 65.4 ± 13.3 vs. 120.9 ± 13.3; 10 DPP - 75.6 ± 12.7 vs. 109.7 ± 12.7; LXA4: 2 DPP - 0.6 ± 0.1 vs. 1.0 ± 0.1; 10 DPP - 0.5 ± 0.1 vs. 0.8 ± 0.1; LXB4: 10 DPP - 2.1 ± 0.5 vs. 4.8 ± 0.5; 18-HEPE: 10 DPP - 35.6 ± 8.1 vs. 78.3 ± 8.1) than healthy cows. At the end of clinical puerperium (21 DPP), compared with cows with healthy puerperium, cows with puerperal metritis had greater uterine fluid concentrations (pg/mL) of pro-inflammatory mediators (chemerin: 1.7 ± 0.1 vs. 1.2 ± 0.1; PGE2: 13230.5 ± 2477.6 vs. 4016.2 ± 2335.9), lesser concentrations of pro-resolving mediators (adiponectin: 0.8 ± 0.1 vs. 1.1 ± 0.1; 17-HDHA: 64.8 ± 27.7 vs. 154.7 ± 27.7; MaR2: 0.5 ± 0.2 vs. 0.9 ± 0.1; RvE2: 0.9 ± 0.2 vs. 1.8 ± 0.2), greater abundance of M1-polarized macrophage protein markers and a higher M1:M2 ratio in the uterine lumen. Cytological endometritis sequelae were present in 16 (80%) cows with puerperal metritis, whereas it was not identified in cows with healthy puerperium. However, at this stage (21 DPP) cows with puerperal metritis also had greater concentrations (pg/mL) of pro-resolving mediators in plasma (adiponectin: 6.6 vs. 5.0) and uterine fluid (apelin: 1.0 ± 0.1 vs. 0.8 ± 0.1; RvE1: 2.1 ± 0.2 vs. 1.4 ± 0.2) than healthy cows. This persisted later in postpartum (42 DPP), when cows with puerperal metritis also showed greater plasma concentrations (pg/mL) of LXA4 (1.0 ± 0.1 vs. 0.6 ± 0.1), 18-HEPE (74.4 ± 8.5 vs. 45.6 ± 8.5), RvE1 (4.3 ± 0.4 vs. 3.1 ± 0.4), adiponectin (6.5 ± 0.5 vs. 5.2 ± 0.5) and apelin (5.5 ± 0.3 vs. 4.7 ± 0.3) than healthy cows. This delayed pro-resolving response was associated with the recovery of the endometritis sequelae of metritis. In conclusion, results of this study support the concept that pro-resolving mechanisms, combining the polarization of macrophages to the M2 phenotype, adipokines and SPM, must start early in postpartum, and its lower magnitude or delayed response is associated with establishment of puerperal metritis. Cows with puerperal metritis show a subsequent high rate of endometritis sequelae, which highlights the relevance of preventive management strategies.The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. on behalf of the American Dairy Science Association®. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42505346 is a review article
Copyright: &copy; 2026 dos Santos et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License (CC BY 4.0), which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited. Ewing sarcoma (ES) is an aggressive childhood tumor. We have previously shown that tropomyosin receptor kinase (Trk) neurotrophin receptors regulate viability, and the Trk and multi-kinase inhibitor K252a restores sensitivity to chemotherapy, in ES cells. Here, we show that administration of K252a in mice transiently delays ES tumor growth and reduces expression and phosphorylation of multiple targets. BALB/c nu/nu nude mice inoculated with SK-ES-1 ES cells were given daily intraperitoneal (i.p.) injections of K252a for 18 days. Immunohistochemical analysis of tumors was performed to quantify the expression and phosphorylation of Trk receptors, phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K), and insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (IGF1R). Treatment with K252a led to a partial and transient delay in ES tumor growth and reduced the expression and phosphorylation of TrkA, TrkB, PI3K, and IGF1R. Combined treatment with K252a and the IGF1R inhibitor NVP-ADW742 was more effective in reducing ES cell viability than each compound alone. Associations between genes encoding Trks, PI3K, and IGF1R and overall survival (OS) in patients with ES was examined. Significant associations between expression of NTRK genes and patient OS were found, indicating that NTRK genes should be further evaluated as biomarkers for prognosis in patients with ES.
Distraction osteogenesis (DO) is a surgical technique used to repair skeletal defects by promoting bone and soft tissue regeneration. However, prolonged use of external fixators often causes complications such as infections and joint contractures. Neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) enhances osteoblast differentiation via bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2) and Akt signaling and may also modulate the Wnt/β-catenin pathway. In this study, we investigated the role of NT-3 in bone regeneration during DO. A DO model was established in 9-week-old male ICR mice, in which tibiae were osteotomized and stabilized with external fixators under anesthesia. After a 5-day latency period, distraction was performed at 0.2 mm every 12 hours for 8 days. RNA was extracted at defined time points post-osteotomy for quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) analysis, and NT-3 was administered post-distraction. Bone regeneration was evaluated by radiographic, histological, and biomechanical analyses. The effects of NT-3 and Dickkopf-1 were further examined in ST2 bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells. NT-3 significantly enhanced bone formation, increased bone mineral density within the DO gap, and improved the mechanical stiffness of regenerated bone. Histological examination revealed earlier bone continuity and greater callus formation in the NT-3 group. Gene expression analysis demonstrated upregulation of Wnt/β-catenin pathway components, including Wnt10b, β-catenin, and low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 5 (LRP5). In ST2 cells, NT3 increased the expression of LRP5, LRP6, β-catenin, and Runx2, while cotreatment with Dickkopf1 abolished these effects. These findings suggest that NT-3 promotes bone regeneration during DO by activating the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway, highlighting its therapeutic potential to improve DO outcomes.
The classic paradigm of somatotropic-gonadal axis synergy in pubertal bone acquisition lacks validation in central precocious puberty (CPP), and the driver of the significant bone turnover marker (BTM) heterogeneity in this population is unknown.To investigate the independent and potential synergistic associations of insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) and peak luteinizing hormone (LH) with BTMs in girls with CPP.This retrospective cohort included 190 treatment-naïve girls with CPP. Participants were stratified into Low, Medium, and High bone turnover groups based on tertiles of a bone age-standardized composite Z-score of bone gla protein (BGP) and β-C-terminal telopeptide (β-CTX). We used multiple linear regression adjusted for chronological age, supplemented by E-value analysis.Marked BTM heterogeneity was confirmed (p for trend < 0.001). IGF-1 and peak LH levels exhibited significant graded increases across groups (p for trend = 0.003 and 0.030). After age-adjustment, IGF-1 independently correlated with both BGP (β = 0.069, p = 0.005) and β-CTX (β = 0.001, p = 0.030), while peak LH associated only with BGP (β = 0.411, p = 0.026). Critically, the IGF-1 × LH peak interaction was non-significant (p = 0.655 and 0.791 for BGP and β-CTX, respectively). In contrast, glucolipid metabolic parameters showed no differences, arguing against their major role and highlighting neuroendocrine specificity.In this cross-sectional study of girls with CPP, heterogeneity in bone turnover was more strongly and consistently associated with the somatotropic axis (IGF-1) than with gonadotropin activity, and no significant synergy was observed. These findings suggest a potential shift toward a somatotropic-dominant mechanism in the context of pathological pubertal acceleration, highlight IGF-1 as a pivotal biomarker for skeletal metabolism assessment, and challenge the classical paradigm of somatotropic-gonadal axis collaboration.​ The proposed mechanism requires validation in longitudinal studies.Copyright © 2026 Liu, Jiang, Li and Li.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42554920 is a review article
To investigate the effect of miR-100-5p on the biological behaviors of pediatric acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cells by targeting insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (IGF1R ).QRT-PCR was used to detect the expression levels of miR-100-5p and IGF1R mRNA in AML cell lines (THP-1, TF-1a, HL-60) and serum of children with AML. The dual-luciferase reporter gene assay was applied to verify the targeting relationship between miR-100-5p and IGF1R . THP-1 cells were assigned into Control group, miR-NC group, miR-100-5p mimics group, miR-100-5p mimics+pcDNA group, and miR-100-5p mimics+IGF1R group. The colony formation assay, scratch healing assay, and transwell assay were used to detect the proliferation, migration, and invasion abilities of THP-1 cells in each group, and Western blot assay was used to detect the protein expression of IGF1R, PCNA, MMP-2, MMP-9, E-cadherin, N-cadherin, and Vimentin.The expression level of IGF1R mRNA was significantly increased, while the expression level of miR-100-5p was significantly decreased in both the serum of pediatric AML patients and THP-1 cells (P < 0.001). Analysis via the StarBase database predicted the presence of potential binding sites between miR-100-5p and IGF1R . Compared with the miR-NC group, in the miR-100-5p mimics group, the number of colonies formed, scratch healing rate, and number of invasive cells of THP-1 cells were significantly decreased; the protein expression levels of IGF1R, PCNA, MMP-2, MMP-9, N-cadherin, and Vimentin were significantly decreased, while the expression level of miR-100-5p and the protein expression level of E-cadherin were significantly increased (all P < 0.05). Compared with the miR-100-5p mimics+pcDNA group, in the miR-100-5p mimics+IGF1R group, the number of colonies formed, scratch healing rate, and number of invasive cells were significantly increased; the protein expression levels of IGF1R, PCNA, MMP-2, MMP-9, N-cadherin, and Vimentin were significantly increased, while the protein expression level of E-cadherin was significantly decreased (all P < 0.05).Overexpression of miR-100-5p can targetedly inhibit IGF1R , thereby suppressing the proliferation, migration, invasion, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) of AML cells.
Postmenopausal osteoporosis(PMOP) is triggered by estrogen deficiency. Insufficient estrogen lead to bone resorption exceeding bone formation, thereby causing decreased bone mass. Studies have confirmed that the total flavonoids extract from Epimedii Folium(TFE) can ameliorate osteoporosis, while the bone nutrient consisting of chondroitin sulfate(CS) combined with glucosamine hydrochloride(GLcN) exerts therapeutic effects on bone metabolism-related diseases. Since osteoporosis is fundamentally characterized by metabolic disorders, the combination of TFE-bone nutritional supplement(TG) may exert synergistic multi-target regulatory effects, thereby offering a new approach for the prevention and control of PMOP. This study systematically explored the ameliorating effects and mechanisms of TG on PMOP through in vivo and in vitro experiments combined with metabolomics technology. In vivo, a rat model of OVX was established by bilateral ovariectomy. The pharmacodynamic effects of TG on PMOP were verified based on bone histopathological staining, bone mineral density, and physiological indicators. In addition, metabolomics technology was used to quantify urine metabolites to explore the potential biomarkers of PMOP regulated by TG and the associated metabolic networks. In vitro, MC3T3-E1 cells were treated with TFE and TG to screen safe drug doses. Subsequently, osteogenic induction was performed, and the effects and mechanisms of TG on the osteogenic differentiation of MC3T3-E1 cells were studied by ALP staining, ARS staining, and Western blot analysis. Pharmacodynamic results showed that TG reduced the generation of osteoclasts and significantly restored bone mineral density and physiological indicator levels. Metabolomic results indicated that TG alleviated bone loss mainly by intervening with multiple metabolic pathways, including nicotinate and nicotinamide metabolism, histidine metabolism, pyrimidine metabolism, tryptophan metabolism, alanine, aspartate and glutamate metabolism, purine metabolism, vitamin B6 metabolism, etc. In vitro experiments confirmed that TG promoted the proliferation of osteoblasts and osteogenic differentiation via the bone morphogenetic protein-2(BMP-2)/Sma-and Mad-related protein(Smad) signaling pathway. In summary, TG can effectively ameliorate PMOP through a multi-target synergistic effect. This study provides an experimental basis and theoretical support for the clinical application of TG.
Colorectal cancer, a leading cause of mortality, is treated with surgery early and irinotecan (IRI) chemotherapy in advanced stages. Insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 3 (IGFBP-3), regulated by p53, mediates tumor suppression and apoptosis. This study evaluates the combined therapeutic effects of IGFBP-3 and IRI in colorectal cancer.SW480 colorectal cancer cells were treated with IGFBP-3, IRI, and their combination; IC50 values were determined by MTT assay, and combination effects were analyzed by CompuSyn. Oxidative stress markers, apoptosis, and cell cycle progression were assessed utilizing flow cytometry. Furthermore, caspase 3/7 activity was measured, and expression levels of Bax, Bcl2, and β-catenin were determined using RT-PCR.The MTT assay revealed IC50 of 8.4 μM for IRI and 43.03 nM for IGFBP-3, with CompuSyn confirming synergistic interaction (CI < 1). Compared to single agents, the combination treatment significantly enhanced apoptosis, induced greater G2/M cell cycle arrest, and markedly increased levels of ROS, MDA, and protein carbonyls while significantly depleting GSH. At the molecular level, the combination synergistically upregulated pro-apoptotic Bax and downregulated anti-apoptotic Bcl2 and oncogenic β-catenin.Our results indicated that IRI and IGFBP-3 show cytotoxicity, with IGFBP-3 enhancing IRI effect by inhibiting Wnt/β-catenin and increasing drug uptake, warranting assessment in normal cells.Copyright: © 2026 Research in Pharmaceutical Sciences.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42546854 is a review article
Emerging evidence suggests autoimmune diseases (AIDs) are associated with atrial fibrillation (AF) through systemic inflammation. However, causal mechanisms and potential protein mediators remain unexplored.To identify proteins mediating the link between AIDs and incident AF using high-dimensional mediation analysis.This study used UK Biobank data with proteomic profiling (Olink platform). Participants without prevalent AF were grouped into musculoskeletal (MSK), vasculitis, gastrointestinal (GI), neurologic, and rheumatic fever subsets. Fine-Gray models identified AID-AF associations, treating non-cardiovascular death as a competing risk. Two separate Proteome-wide association studies (PWAS) identified proteins linked to AIDs and incident AF, respectively. All models adjusted for age, sex, lipids, BMI, smoking, hypertension, diabetes, coronary artery disease, peripheral vascular disease, stroke, and heart failure. Proteins associated with both AIDs and AF were selected for high-dimensional mediation analysis (HIMA).Among 419,888 participants (median age 58 years, 45.7% male) followed for a median 14.4 years, MSK, vasculitis, GI, and rheumatic fever AIDs significantly increased incident AF risk (HR 1.17, 1.39, 1.17, and 1.46, respectively; P<0.001), but not neurologic AID (P=0.13). In 44,872 participants with proteomic data, HIMA of 232 proteins identified 60 unique mediators, with adrenomedullin, soluble urokinase plasminogen activator receptor, and insulin-like growth factor binding protein 2 shared across multiple AID groups.The identification of protein biomarkers that may help elucidate potential pathways between AID and AF provides mechanistic insights into immune-related atrial remodeling and suggests possible therapeutic targets for AF prevention and risk stratification in AID patients.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is characterized by failed alveolar epithelial repair and progressive fibrotic remodeling. Although aberrant reprogramming of alveolar type 2 (AT2) cells and accumulation of transitional AT2 states are increasing recognized as central features of IPF, the epithelial-intrinsic mechanisms that initiate these pathogenic states remain incompletely understood. Here, we identify mitochondrial transcription factor A (TFAM), a regulator of mitochondrial DNA maintenance, as a critical regulator of AT2 cell homeostasis. TFAM expression was reduced in AT2 cells from human IPF lungs. Inducible AT2 cell-specific Tfam deletion in mice caused spontaneous fibrotic remodeling and increased susceptibility to bleomycin-induced lung injury. TFAM-deficient AT2 cells acquired KRT8+ transitional and p21+ senescence-associated features before the onset of fibrotic transformation, accompanied by impaired oxidative phosphorylation, redox imbalance, mitochondrial superoxide accumulation, repression of mtDNA-encoded respiratory genes, and disrupted mitochondrial ultrastructure. TFAM-deficient AT2 cells developed a profibrotic secretory program that promoted extracellular matrix deposition and fibroblast activation. We further identified insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 2 (IGFBP2) as a secreted mediator induced in TFAM-deficient AT2 cells. IGFBP2 was elevated in AT2 cells in human IPF lung tissue and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) from patients with IPF. IGFBP2 was detected in supernatants from fibrotic human precision-cut lung slices (hPCLS). IGFBP2 neutralization attenuated profibrotic remodeling in fibrotic hPCLS. Collectively, our findings identify TFAM-dependent mitochondrial homeostasis as an epithelial checkpoint linking AT2 cell-state stability to impaired epithelial-mesenchymal crosstalk driving pulmonary fibrosis.
Diabetic Cardiomyopathy (DCM) is a serious diabetic complication with limited therapies. While XuanTong BuLuo Decoction (XTBLD) benefits diabetic complications, its active components and anti-DCM mechanisms are unclear. This study aimed to predict XTBLD's active ingredients, key targets, and related pathways against DCM via network pharmacology, and verify them by animal experiments.Network pharmacology and molecular docking were used to screen XTBLD's active components, potential targets against DCM, and their binding affinity. Animal experiments evaluated XTBLD's therapeutic effects on DCM by assessing glycemic control, inflammation, and key protein expression in related pathways.A total of 173 active ingredients were screened from XTBLD, with 217 intersecting genes obtained. Enrichment analysis revealed 125 signaling pathways, with 11 involved in XTBLD against DCM. Five main active components were identified using UPLC-MS/MS. In diabetic mice, XTBLD showed positive effects on blood glucose control, inflammatory response, and creatine kinase isoenzyme levels, as well as the expression of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 1 and insulin-like growth factor binding protein 3.This study demonstrates that XTBLD exerts cardioprotective effects against DCM via regulating its key active components, core targets (CDKN1A, IGFBP3), and related signaling pathways, providing a scientific basis for XTBLD's clinical application in DCM management.XTBLD may exhibits a potential protective effect on glycemic control and myocardial injury by regulating signaling pathways associated with cell growth, apoptosis, and inflammatory responses, with puerarin, luteolin, formononetin, kaempferol, and quercetin proposed as its potential main active components.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Lipedema is a chronic disorder that predominantly affects women and is characterized by abnormal subcutaneous adipose tissue accumulation, pain, and vascular dysfunction. However, reliable circulating biomarkers that reflect disease-specific pathophysiology are still lacking. This study investigated serum markers associated with adipose tissue, inflammation, and angiogenesis to further elucidate the pathophysiology of lipedema.In this cross-sectional observational study, fasting serum levels of adiponectin, chemerin, lipopolysaccharide-binding protein (LBP), proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9), soluble CD163 (sCD163), and soluble CD137 (sCD137)-proteins associated with obesity and inflammation-were measured in 23 premenopausal women with lipedema and 23 age-matched healthy premenopausal controls. Serum endostatin levels, an angiogenesis inhibitor, and insulin-like growth factor binding protein 2 (IGFBP2), a potent proangiogenic factor, were also assessed.Patients with lipedema and obese controls had comparable body mass index, glucose, and serum lipid profiles. No significant differences were observed between groups in circulating levels of adiponectin, chemerin, LBP, PCSK9, sCD163, sCD137 and IGFBP2. In contrast, serum endostatin levels were significantly reduced in patients with lipedema (p = 0.038). Additional analyses demonstrated markedly higher endostatin expression in human subcutaneous adipose tissue than in the liver, suggesting that circulating endostatin levels may be related to adipose tissue mass. However, serum endostatin levels were lower in obese compared with normal-weight women (p < 0.001).Lipedema was not associated with altered circulating levels of adiponectin, chemerin, LBP, PCSK9, sCD163, sCD137 or IGFBP2. Reduced serum endostatin levels support a potential role for vascular dysfunction in the pathophysiology of lipedema.
Currently, there are no blood biomarkers available for the early diagnosis of laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma (LSCC). The objective of this study was to search for potential plasma biomarkers for the diagnosis of LSCC.Plasma samples were taken from patients with LSCC and healthy controls for proteomic analysis. An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was employed to measure the expression levels of differentially expressed proteins in plasma. The expression of differential protein in LSCC cells was downregulated. Subsequently, the function of LSCC cells was evaluated using wound healing, transwell migration, incorporation of 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU), and colony formation assays. Analysis of Plasma IGFBP2 Levels in Relation to Clinical Data and Evaluation of IGFBP2 as a Diagnostic and Prognostic Biomarker Using TCGA Database.A total of 16 differentially expressed proteins were identified in the plasma from patients with LSCC and healthy controls. Significant differences in protein expression patterns were observed between the LSCC patient group and the healthy control group. The expression of insulin-like growth factor binding protein 2 (IGFBP2) in plasma of LSCC patients was significantly higher than that of healthy controls. After suppression of IGFBP2 expression, the migration, invasion, and proliferation abilities of LSCC cells were reduced and the expression of signal transduction and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) was negatively regulated. The analysis of IGFBP2 expression in the TCGA-LSCC data set showed a significant upregulation in tumor tissue compared to adjacent normal tissue. Furthermore, no significant differences in plasma IGFBP2 levels were observed with regard to gender, smoking status, history of malignancy, or tumor subsite. A positive correlation was observed between T stage and IGFBP2 levels. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis revealed that higher IGFBP2 expression levels were significantly associated with worse overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS). Univariable Cox regression analysis identified high IGFBP2 expression as a significant predictor of poor prognosis (hazard ratio [HR] = 3.52, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.84-6.75, p < 0.001). Furthermore, multivariable Cox regression analysis confirmed the independent prognostic value of IGFBP2 expression, with a hazard ratio (HR) of 3.32 (95% CI: 1.63-6.78, p < 0.001).IGFBP2 may play a role in the occurrence and development of LSCC as an oncogene and may be used as a potential plasma biomarker for the diagnosis of LSCC. IGFBP2 may be related to STAT3 in mechanism.© 2025 The Author(s). World Journal of Otorhinolaryngology ‐ Head and Neck Surgery published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd on behalf of Chinese Medical Association.
Tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) deficiency causes hyperphenylalaninemia and impaired synthesis of serotonin and dopamine. Individuals with BH4 deficiency require personalized neurotransmitter replacement therapy to optimize treatment outcomes. An effective way to measure the success of this treatment is through serum prolactin levels; hyperprolactinemia indicates inadequate treatment and requires adjustments.Here, we report a 11-year- old girl with a diagnosis of BH4 deficiency who developed growth failure and persistent hyperprolactinemia despite L- dopa supplementation. Laboratory evaluation for growth failure revealed normal biochemical and thyroid hormone profiles, with decreased serum Insulin-like Growth Factor 1 (IGF-1) and Insulin-like Growth Factor Binding Protein 3(IGFBP-3), delayed bone age, and markedly elevated prolactin. Accordingly, growth hormone stimulation tests were conducted, revealing suboptimal responses and confirming growth hormone deficiency. In light of growth hormone deficiency and persistent hyperprolactinemia, cerebral magnetic resonance imaging was performed, demonstrating a solid pituitary lesion highly suggestive of prolactinoma. These findings suggest that in patients with BH4 deficiency, hyperprolactinemia resistant to L-dopa therapy may indicate the development of prolactinoma. Therefore, in resistant cases, regular laboratory follow-up and cranial imaging are clinically important.
Growth hormone (GH) has been widely used to treat idiopathic short stature (ISS), defined as a height that falls below the third percentile or 2 standard deviations below the mean for age and sex. This study aimed to evaluate the long-term effects of GH on relative growth response in children with ISS using a nonlinear mixed-effects (NLME) model for longitudinal data and to support personalized medicine through predictive modeling approach.A total of 91 prepubertal patients with ISS were included in this study. The height percentile adjusted for age and sex was used as the outcome to reflect physiological growth, and the cumulative GH dose (mg/kg) was used as the exposure metric. A Gompertz-based NLME model was fitted to describe the dose-response relationship, and stepwise covariate modeling identified significant baseline predictors. The model performance was assessed using visual predictive checks and goodness-of-fit plots.The final model estimated a baseline height percentile of 0.63 ± 0.90 and an upper growth limit of 17.2 ± 11.1. Body mass index, insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 3, and paternal height were significant covariates influencing the total growth.This study demonstrated the utility of NLME modeling for quantifying the treatment response to GH in patients with ISS. The developed model was integrated into a web-based tool, allowing clinicians to predict individualized growth trajectories and optimize GH treatment strategies in real-world practice.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Insulin-like growth factor binding protein-6 (IGFBP-6) is induced by progesterone in breast cancer cells and regulates progesterone receptor (PR) via negative feedback. To further understand the mechanisms by which IGFBP-6 regulates PR and downstream signaling, proteomic analysis was performed in progesterone-treated T47D breast cancer cells following siRNA-mediated knockdown of IGFBP-6. Of the 8638 unique proteins identified, 29 proteins were downregulated, and 14 proteins were upregulated by progesterone treatment after IGFBP-6 knockdown. The decreased proteins were mostly identified as regulators of G2/M phase of the cell cycle. SH2D4A is induced by progesterone only when IGFBP-6 was high. To understand the role of SH2D4A in progesterone-induced signaling, SH2D4A was knocked down using siRNA prior to progesterone treatment. Knockdown of IGFBP-6 or SH2D4A leads to cell cycle arrest in G1, and both SH2D4A and IGFBP-6 regulate cyclin B. Treatment of cells with abemaciclib and nocodazole caused cell cycle arrest in G1 and G2/M, respectively, and decreased IGFBP-6, suggesting that IGFBP-6 is regulated in a cell cycle-dependent manner. These results identify a pathway linking progesterone to IGFBP-6 and SH2D4A, and to cell cycle progression in breast cancer cells.Copyright © 2026 Lariz, Bautista-Tovar, Lazo-Loya and Houston.
To define the role and mechanisms of the epigenetic regulator CXXC1 in corneal epithelial cells (CECs) differentiation.Chromatin remodeling-related gene ontology (GO) modules were integrated with RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) to identify CXXC finger protein 1 (CXXC1) as a candidate epigenetic regulator of CECs differentiation. Loss-of-function studies were performed in limbal stem/progenitor cells (LSCs), followed by air-liquid interface-induced differentiation into CECs. Effects of CXXC1 depletion were assessed by RNA-seq, quantitative real-time PCR, and immunofluorescence. Chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq) for CXXC1 and H3K4me3 was combined with transcriptomics to identify insulin-like growth factor binding protein 6 (IGFBP6) as a direct target. The role and pathological relevance of the CXXC1-IGFBP6 axis were evaluated by IGFBP6 knockdown and in human corneal ulcer tissues.CXXC1 was expressed throughout the corneal epithelium and was markedly upregulated during LSC-to-CEC differentiation. CXXC1 depletion impaired differentiation and reduced expression of CECs markers and key corneal epithelial regulators. ChIP-seq revealed CXXC1 binding at the IGFBP6 locus, coinciding with H3K4me3 enrichment, whereas CXXC1 knockdown reduced both H3K4me3 enrichment and IGFBP6 expression. IGFBP6 knockdown phenocopied CXXC1 loss. Depletion of either gene activated inflammatory, angiogenic, and hypoxia-related gene programs, suggesting abnormal corneal epithelial differentiation and pathological changes. Both proteins were markedly reduced in human corneal ulcer lesions.CXXC1 maintains CECs differentiation through H3K4me3-dependent activation of IGFBP6 and other epithelial regulators. The CXXC1-IGFBP6 axis is associated with pathological changes in corneal ulcer lesions.
Periodontitis has been associated with an increased risk of atherosclerosis, potentially through altered systemic monocyte and macrophage function. We aimed to identify a differentially expressed protein in naïve monocytes from individuals with periodontitis compared to controls and investigate its association with pro-atherosclerotic monocyte and macrophage functions. Peripheral blood monocytes were isolated from individuals with periodontitis and matched controls. Proteomic analysis and bioinformatics identified insulin-like growth factor-binding protein-6 (IGFBP-6) as a protein of interest. IGFBP-6 protein was quantified in monocytes, macrophages, foam cells, and plasma using Western blotting. To model periodontitis in vitro, monocytes and macrophages were treated with Porphyromonas gingivalis lipopolysaccharide. Extracellular vesicles were analysed for IGFBP-6 content and activity. Foam cell formation, cholesterol transporter expression, monocyte adhesion, macrophage transmigration, inflammatory cytokine production, and apoptosis were quantified. IGFBP-6 levels were reduced intracellularly but elevated in plasma in periodontitis, and similar patterns were observed in lipopolysaccharide-treated cells. IGFBP-6 in extracellular vesicles lacked biological activity. Reduced IGFBP-6 protein was associated with increased foam cell formation and downregulation of ATP-binding cassette subfamily-G1 (ABCG1), independent of IGF signalling. Restoration of IGFBP-6 was associated with reduced foam cell formation and inflammation, alongside inhibition of macrophage transmigration. These findings suggest that altered IGFBP-6 levels may contribute to the progression of atherosclerosis in periodontitis.© 2026. The Author(s).
X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP) is an antiapoptotic protein which plays canonical functions in the cytoplasm. However, we have previously demonstrated that nuclear XIAP is associated with increased cell growth and drug resistance as well as unfavorable outcomes in breast cancer. Therefore, this work aimed to investigate the non-canonical molecular functions associated with abnormal XIAP nuclear localization in breast cancer. To address this, we have performed both transcriptomic and proteomic large-scale approaches with breast cancer cell line models overexpressing HA-tagged ectopic XIAP (WT, H467A, ΔRING and NLS mutants) in distinct subcellular locations. Nuclear XIAP overexpressing cells (XIAPNLS) have been shown enriched for genes implicated in cellular processes other than apoptosis inhibition, such as proliferation, transport, locomotion, migration, cell motility, and protein phosphorylation. Interestingly, the validation analysis has shown differential expression of genes associated with the Wingless-related integration site (Wnt)/β-catenin pathway, as well as the insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 6 (IGFBP6) tumor suppressor gene. IGFBP6 transcript levels have been found reduced in XIAPNLS-overexpressing cells, as well as invasive breast cancer patients. Notably, IGFBP6 knockdown modulated long-term cell proliferation and doxorubicin sensitivity in cells overexpressing nuclear XIAP, further suggesting that nuclear XIAP might indirectly target the IGFBP6 pathway to promote chemoresistance. Finally, Wnt signaling effectors were identified in nuclear XIAP interactomes, closely linked to activation of β-catenin transcriptional activity in XIAPNLS-overexpressing cells. Our data establishes a non-canonical role for XIAP in the regulation of pathways related to cell growth in the nucleus, with Wnt/IGFBP6 emerging as a potential regulatory node associated with nuclear XIAP effects in breast cancer.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41773288 is a review article
While the contribution of the IGF-signaling axis in breast cancer is well-documented, the role of IGFBP-6 in breast carcinogenesis has not been extensively studied. In general, insulin-like growth factor binding protein-6 (IGFBP-6) sequesters insulin-like growth factor 2 (IGF-2) to attenuate activation of its cognate receptor IGF-1R. To reveal previously unknown mechanisms of breast cancer modulation by IGFBP-6 in breast cancer, proteomic analysis was performed in T47D cells after IGFBP-6 knockdown. Comparing protein expression and phosphosites after knockdown by unique siRNA sequences with a negative control and subsequent pathway analysis, a decrease in IGFBP-6 expression resulted in activation of interferon signaling pathways and a decrease in pathways involved in the G2/M cell cycle transition. A subset of the proteins identified in each cell regulatory pathway was validated by immunoblotting for specific proteins after IGFBP-6 knockdown. Cell cycle analysis showed that IGFBP-6 knockdown in Hormone Receptor Positive T47D breast cancer cells resulted in an increased number of cells in the G1 phase and a decrease in cells in G2, indicating a role for IGFBP-6 in cell cycle regulation. Knockdown of IGFBP-6 in a triple-negative breast cancer cell line, MDA-MB-231, also resulted in a decrease in Cyclin B1 accumulation, demonstrating that our observations are not cell line specific. Taken together, our results demonstrate that IGFBP-6 regulates cell cycle progression in breast cancer cells and interferon signaling in hormone-positive cells.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Given an epidemiological association between hypertension and osteoarthritis, we aim to elucidate how vascular pathology triggers avascular articular cartilage loss by comparing vascular and joint phenotypes between spontaneously hypertensive rats and normotensive Wistar Kyoto rats at tissue, cellular, and molecular levels.Systemic and local endothelial function were assessed via blood pressure monitoring and photoacoustic imaging of knee joints, respectively (n=5-6). Tissue and cellular damages in articular cartilage, subchondral bone, and synovium were systemically evaluated by radiological and histological examination (n=6). Endothelial transcriptional changes were delineated via bulk RNA-seq (n=3). The secretome of human endothelial cells under oxidative stress was analyzed via proteomics to identify key factors in chondrocyte senescence (n=4). Captopril, an antihypertensive medication, was adopted as a tool to rescue chondrocyte senescence and osteoarthritis both in vitro (n=3) and in vivo (n=6).Compared with Wistar Kyoto rats, spontaneously hypertensive rats exhibited higher blood pressure and local joint hypoxia with increased endothelial oxidative stress as early as 3 months old. Notably, these endothelial dysfunctions preceded the onset of structural joint damage. By 9 months of age, spontaneously hypertensive rats developed osteoarthritis-like pathology characterized by senescent chondrocyte accumulation and cartilage degradation, which could be mitigated by captopril. Transcriptomic and proteomic analyses of rat and human endothelial cells revealed upregulated IGFBPs (insulin-like growth factor-binding proteins). Among them, IGFBP6 was identified to induce chondrocyte senescence in vitro. This effect can be modified by captopril treatment.Systemic vascular dysfunction may induce local joint damage with upregulation of endothelial IGFBPs secretion such as IGFBP6. This study highlights a potential therapeutic target for preventing joint structural damage by addressing endothelial dysfunction.
Rationale: The transition of fibroblasts into activated myofibroblasts is a pivotal driver of collagen deposition and adverse cardiac remodeling. Insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 6 (IGFBP6), a critical modulator of cellular growth and metabolism via its regulation of IGF-II activity, has been implicated in immune and fibrotic responses. However, its specific role in fibroblast-mediated cardiac remodeling, particularly in the regulation of myofibroblast transition, remains incompletely understood. Methods: We analyzed IGFBP6 expression in ischemic cardiomyopathy-associated cardiac fibrosis using Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) dataset. Serum IGFBP6 levels in patients with chronic myocardial infarction (MI) were quantified via ELISA. Cardiac fibroblast and myofibroblast-specific IGFBP6 knockout mice were generated by crossing IGFBP6 floxed (IGFBP6f/f) mice with tamoxifen-inducible Col1a2-Cre and Postn-MerCreMer mice. Cardiac function, tissues morphology, and molecular alterations were analyzed following MI or isoproterenol (ISO) challenge. The mechanisms underlying the regulation of fibroblast-to-myofibroblast transition (FMT) by IGFBP6 were elucidated using LC-MS/MS and RNA sequencing. Results: IGFBP6 expression was significantly upregulated in cardiac fibroblasts isolated from murine fibrotic hearts and was responsive to TGF-β1 stimulation. The elevated serum IGFBP6 levels were correlated with the incidence of chronic MI. Conditional knockout of IGFBP6 in cardiac fibroblasts and myofibroblasts markedly attenuated post-MI fibrotic remodeling, ventricular dysfunction, and ISO-induced cardiac hypertrophy and fibrosis. IGFBP6 silencing abolished TGF-β1-triggered FMT. Mechanistically, TGF-β1 stimulation facilitated the translocation of IGFBP6 in cardiac fibroblasts, where its N-terminal domain directly interacted with early growth regulator 1 (EGR1). This interaction enhanced EGR1 binding to the promoter of microfibril-associated protein 4 (MFAP4), a pro-fibrotic mediator. Overexpression of MFAP4 significantly reversed the protective effects by IGFBP6 knockout in cardiac fibroblast transition and adverse remodeling post-MI. Conclusion: Our study identifies fibroblast-derived IGFBP6 as a novel regulator of cardiac fibrosis through the EGR1-MFAP4 signaling axis, driving myofibroblasts differentiation and adverse remodeling. Targeting this pathway may offer therapeutic potential for cardiac remodeling disorders.© The author(s).
Retinal neovascularization diseases cause vision impairment due to abnormal blood vessel growth in the retina. Current treatments, including repeated intraocular anti-vascular endothelial growth factor injections, are invasive and often lead to discomfort and complicated hemorrhages. Here, we developed a noninvasive nanozyme eye drop capable of penetrating the fundus to eliminate reactive oxygen species (ROS) and thereby inhibit neovascularization. The nanozyme eye drops consist of liposomes formed by fluorinated and arginine-glycine-aspartic acid-modified phospholipids, which enhance the penetration of ocular barriers. The encapsulated superoxide dismutase-catalase cascade nanozyme within these liposomes allows for efficient ROS scavenging. In vitro and in vivo studies demonstrate that these nanozyme eye drops achieve deep retinal tissue penetration, alleviate oxidative stress, restore mitochondrial function, and suppress aberrant insulin-like growth factor binding protein 6 signaling, thereby inhibiting pathological neovascularization. Enhanced ocular bioavailability and minimal toxicity further underscore its promise as a safe and effective noninvasive treatment for retinal neovascularization diseases.
The persistent challenge of sepsis-related mortality underscores the necessity for deeper insights. Our multicenter, cross-age cohort study identified insulin-like growth factor binding protein 6 (IGFBP6) as a critical regulator in sepsis diagnosis, prognosis, and mortality risk evaluation. Mechanistically, IGFBP6 engages in IGF-independent binding to prohibitin2 (PHB2) on epithelial cells, driving PHB2 tyrosine phosphorylation during sepsis. This process disrupts STAT1 phosphorylation, nuclear translocation, and its recruitment to the CCL2 promoter, ultimately impairing CCL2 transcription and macrophage chemotaxis. Crucially, PHB2 silencing via siPHB2 and STAT1 activation using 2-NP restored CCL2 expression in vitro and in vivo, improving bacterial clearance and survival in septic mice. Concurrently, IGFBP6 compromised macrophage bactericidal activity by inhibiting Akt phosphorylation, reducing ROS/IL-1β production and phagocytic capacity - defects reversible by Akt agonist SC79. Collectively, IGFBP6 emerges as an endogenous driver of sepsis pathogenesis, positioning it as a dual diagnostic biomarker and therapeutic target. Intervention strategies targeting IGFBP6-mediated signaling may offer transformative approaches for sepsis management.
Excessive proliferation of crypt stem cells represents a crucial hallmark in colorectal tumorigenesis. G protein-coupled receptor 182 (GPR182), a recently partially "deorphanized" G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR), has emerged as a pivotal modulator in gastrointestinal tumors. However, its roles and underlying mechanism in colorectal tumors remain unclear, primarily due to the absence of identified endogenous ligands. In this study, we identified Insulin like growth factor binding protein 5 (IGFBP5) as a novel endogenous ligand for GPR182. GPR182 mRNA and protein expression levels were significantly up-regulated in cancer stem cells of colorectal tissues or cell lines. Functional assays revealed that IGFBP5 inhibited growth of intestinal crypt organoids and cancer stem cell spheres. In APCMin/+ mice, IGFBP5 administration attenuated the tumor development while co-administration of GPR182 knockdown adeno-associated virus (AAV) abrogated this phenotype. Consistently, systemic IGFBP5 knockout markedly accelerated tumorigenesis and shortened survival time in APCMin/+ mice. Mechanistic investigations demonstrated that IGFBP5's engagement with GPR182 induced inhibition of AKT/P70S6K pathway via Protein kinase C alpha (PKCα) dephosphorylation. Together, these findings elucidate the suppressive role of IGFBP5 in colorectal cancer (CRC) stem cells via GPR182/PKCα/AKT/P70S6K axis, highlighting IGFBP5 implementation a promising strategy for CRC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Cancer relapse upon chemotherapy remains the primary challenge in cancer treatment. By integrating high-resolution CRISPR/Cas9-based evolving lineage tracing with single-cell RNA sequencing in mice, we track the evolution of bladder carcinoma in the presence or absence of chemotherapy. We find that a cell population exhibiting an epidermoid-like cell state can survives chemotherapy. These epidermoid-like cells leave the quiescent state to initiate relapse, generating histologically distinct tumours through different evolutionary routes involving specific transcriptional changes. The plasticity of epidermoid-like cells and alterations in plasticity patterns during evolution shape the phenotypes of relapsed tumours. Integrated analyses reveal that Insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 5 is a key co-regulator of aggressive progression and squamous features in bladder carcinoma. Impeding insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 5 expression suppresses the chemoresistance and malignant behaviours of relapsed tumours. Our study deciphers key events and evolutionary dynamics during the natural progression and recurrence of bladder carcinoma. It offers a viable therapeutic approach to overcome the refractoriness of relapsed bladder carcinoma to conventional chemotherapy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Small cell lung cancer (SCLC), a highly aggressive neuroendocrine malignancy, exhibits poor response to immunotherapy, and the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we identify a blood-brain barrier-like vascular gate (BVG) in SCLC, distinct from non-SCLC (NSCLC) and other cancers, composed of tightly connected endothelial cells, a thickened basement membrane, and dense pericyte coverage. Functionally, this blood-brain barrier-like vascular gate restricts immune cell infiltration, contributing to SCLC's immunotherapy resistance. Mechanistically, achaete-scute family basic-helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factor 1 (ASCL1), the master transcription factor of SCLC, is essential for BVG formation by regulating insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 5 (IGFBP5), which activates the IGF1 signaling in endothelial cells. IGFBP5 knockout or treatment with the IGF1R inhibitor OSI-906 enhances CD8+ T cell infiltration and synergizes with anti-PD1 therapy. Furthermore, this ASCL1-IGFBP5-IGF1R axis and the BVG are conserved across multiple neuroendocrine cancers (NECs). Our findings reveal a previously unrecognized vascular gate in NECs and propose novel therapeutic strategies to enhance immunotherapy efficacy in these recalcitrant cancers.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Obesity contributes to colorectal cancer (CRC) by elevating levels of estrogen, 27-hydroxycholesterol (27-OHC), and insulin-like growth factors. Paradoxically, epidemiological studies show that hormone replacement therapy reduces CRC incidence and mortality, particularly in postmenopausal women, suggesting a protective role for estrogen. Estrogen and 27-OHC signal via ERα, ERβ, and G protein-coupled estrogen receptor 1 (GPER1), with ERβ being the predominant estrogen receptor in the colon. We observed a strong positive correlation between ERβ and insulin-like growth factor-binding protein-5 (IGFBP-5) in CRC tissues, and high IGFBP-5 expression was significantly associated with poor patient outcomes. Functional assays revealed that ERβ knockdown inhibited colon cancer cell proliferation and migration, accompanied by a marked reduction in IGFBP-5 expression. Co-immunoprecipitation confirmed a direct interaction between ERβ and IGFBP-5. Both estrogen and 27-OHC suppressed CRC cell proliferation and IGFBP-5 expression, but this was independent of ERβ. Combined ERβ silencing and estrogen or 27-OHC treatment enhanced DNA damage and apoptosis. Transcriptome analysis identified GPER1 as a downstream estrogen-responsive gene. Subsequent in vitro validation confirmed that GPER1 activation mediates the tumour-suppressive effects of estrogen and 27-OHC. Collectively, our findings highlight IGFBP-5 as a potential prognostic marker, demonstrate the tumour-inhibitory effect of ERβ silencing, and identify GPER1 as a promising therapeutic target linking estrogen signalling, lipid metabolism, and CRC progression.© 2026 The Author(s).
BACKGROUND: Insulin-like growth factor binding protein 5 (IGFBP5) has been implicated in prostate cancer progression; however, its role in metastasis remains poorly defined. METHODS: IGFBP5 expression and its association with clinicopathological features were evaluated using a tissue microarray containing 72 prostate tumors and 36 adjacent normal tissues. Its metastatic function was assessed through gain- and loss-of-function experiments in PC3 and DU145 prostate cancer cell lines, as well as in vivo via tail-vein injection models. To investigate bone metastasis potential, co-culture assays with osteogenic MC3T3E1 cells and endothelial tube formation assays were conducted. RNA sequencing followed by gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) was performed to explore underlying molecular mechanisms. RESULTS: IGFBP5 expression was significantly elevated in prostate cancer tissues and positively correlated with higher Gleason scores. Elevated IGFBP5 levels were also associated with increased M2 macrophage infiltration (ρ = 0.514, p < 0.01) and extra-prostatic metastasis. Functional assays demonstrated that IGFBP5 overexpression enhanced epithelial–mesenchymal transition (EMT) marker expression (CDH2, vimentin, Snail), and increased cell migration and invasion, whereas IGFBP5 knockdown suppressed these aggressive phenotypes. In vivo, IGFBP5 overexpression led to a higher number of pulmonary metastatic nodules. Conditioned media from IGFBP5-overexpressing PC3 cells promoted osteogenic mineralization and endothelial tube formation, indicating pro-osteogenic and pro-angiogenic activity. Mechanistic analysis suggested that IGFBP5 facilitates metastasis through activation of NF-κB signaling, promoting EMT and upregulating chemokines such as CXCL8 and CCL2. CONCLUSIONS: IGFBP5 promotes prostate cancer metastasis by enhancing EMT, osteogenesis, and angiogenesis, potentially via NF-κB signaling. These findings highlight IGFBP5 as a promising biomarker and therapeutic target for metastatic prostate cancer.
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a metabolic disorder and a major cause of infertility, affecting approximately 5-18% of women of reproductive age worldwide. Emerging evidence suggests that intrinsic endometrial defects play a critical role in PCOS-associated infertility; however, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood. In this study, we demonstrated that interleukin 22 (IL-22) signaling directly modulated endometrial function and that downregulation of the IL-22-STAT3 pathway contributed to impaired endometrial receptivity in PCOS. Consistently, exogenous IL-22 administration in a PCOS-like mouse model restored STAT3 phosphorylation and effectively alleviated implantation failure by enhancing endometrial receptivity. Mechanistically, we identified insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 5 (IGFBP5) as a direct downstream target of STAT3 in endometrial organoids derived from patients with PCOS. Knockdown of IGFBP5 in the uteri of PCOS-like mice abolished the beneficial effects of IL-22, whereas IGFBP5 supplementation restored endometrial receptivity and rescued implantation. Collectively, we showed that the suppression of the IL-22-STAT3-IGFBP5 axis is a key contributor to impaired endometrial receptivity in PCOS, providing a potential therapeutic target for improving pregnancy outcomes via IGFBP5 supplementation.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
The PAPPA2 gene encodes a metalloproteinase critical for regulating insulin-like growth factor (IGF) bioavailability through cleavage of insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 5 (IGFBP5). While its role in human and murine reproduction is documented, its function in sheep reproductive traits remains underexplored.This study aimed to investigate the differential expression patterns and polymorphisms in PAPPA2 gene across diverse sheep breeds and their association with litter size.Genotyping of two single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs; g.55757202C>A and g.55924884C>G) was performed in 760 ewes from six breeds. Three high-fertility Small Tail Han ewes and three low-fertility Tibetan ewes were selected for tissue-specific expression analysis. Associations between SNPs and litter size were statistically analysed, and bioinformatics tools were employed to assess structural impacts of mutations.The g.55924884C>G SNP exhibited a significant association with litter size in Small Tail Han sheep across parities (p < 0.05). qPCR revealed markedly higher PAPPA2 expression in low-fertility Tibetan sheep ovaries compared to high-fertility Small Tail Han sheep (p < 0.05). Bioinformatics analysis indicated that the g.55924884C>G mutation induced substantial alterations in the secondary and tertiary structures of PAPPA2 protein, while g.55757202C>A had minimal structural impact, which may be the reason for the change in litter size caused by the g.55924884C>G mutation.The g.55924884C>G polymorphism in PAPPA2 gene significantly influences ovine litter size and may serve a genetic marker for selective breeding.© 2026 The Author(s). Veterinary Medicine and Science published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The prevalence of both osteoporosis and sarcopenia increases with age and about 60% of elderly sarcopenia patients also develop osteoporosis. However, the co-occurrence of osteoporosis and sarcopenia remains unclear. We performed single-cell 5' RNA-seq on human skeletal muscle tissues and investigated the enrichment of heritability for musculoskeletal traits in cell type specific cis-regulatory regions. We found the fibroblast-specific cis-regulatory regions are highly enriched in the heritability of bone mineral density (BMD). Using genome-wide association study, we identified estrogen receptor α (ESR1) as a common transcription factor that correlated with both BMD and lean mass. We hypothesized that deficiency of estrogen signaling in fibroblast may attenuate musculoskeletal homeostasis. Therefore, we generated mice lacking Esr1 in PDGFRα (a fibroblast marker) + cells (Esr1ΔPα ). Although muscle mass and grip strength were not different between groups, distal femoral BMD and cortical thickness were significantly lower in Esr1ΔPα compared to control. Bone histomorphometry showed that cortical bone in Esr1ΔPα exhibited a high turnover bone phenotype. Bulk RNA-seq using PDGFRα+ cells revealed that insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 5 (Igfbp5) expression was significantly higher in Esr1ΔPα compared to control. Furthermore, serum IGFBP5 level was significantly higher in Esr1ΔPα . IGFBP5 treatment in vitro significantly suppressed osteoblast differentiation and facilitated osteoclast differentiation. These results suggest that estrogen signaling in PDGFRα+ cells suppresses Igfbp5 expression, then maintains bone mass, indicating that estrogen signaling in PDGFRα+ cells plays a significant role in bone metabolism.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Society for Bone and Mineral Research.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42352256 is a review article
Glaucoma is a leading cause of irreversible blindness worldwide. One hallmark of glaucoma is the degeneration of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs). In this study, a dual role for growth hormone-releasing hormone receptor (GHRHR) modulation under glaucoma-relevant conditions and complementary injury paradigms involving the RGCs is identified. Using acute IOP elevation (retinal ischemia-reperfusion), chronic ocular hypertension (microbead-induced), and traumatic axonal injury (optic nerve crush) models, we show that GHRHR deficiency preserves RGC survival and uniquely restores visual functions-contrasting with GHRHR activation, which solely promotes cellular survival. Single-cell transcriptomic analysis uncovers RGC-specific alterations in genes associated with ferroptosis, lipid metabolism, oxidative stress, and mitochondrial dynamics. At the mechanistic level, GHRHR deficiency prevents the pathological downregulation of key anti-ferroptotic mediators GPX4 and FTH1 while suppressing pro-ferroptotic factors ACSL4 caused by glaucomatous neurodegeneration. This multifaceted regulation attenuated iron accumulation, lipid peroxidation, and reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation, effects that are diminished by the ferroptosis inducer RSL3. Notably, in mitochondria damaged primary RGCs, pharmacological GHRHR inhibition replicates these benefits, reducing lipid peroxidation and mitochondrial ROS to bolster RGC survival. Collectively, these findings establish GHRHR inhibition as a potent therapeutic strategy for glaucomatous neurodegeneration, synergistically rescuing both structural and functional integrity of the retina.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41824769 is a review article
Selective breeding of broilers has significantly improved growth rates, muscle mass, and feed efficiency and may have influenced the neuroendocrine systems that regulate growth and metabolism. Embryonic development represents one-third of the life of a modern broiler. To assess the impact of genetic selection on the neuroendocrine regulation of growth and metabolism during embryonic development, we examined mRNA expression of growth-related genes in the hypothalamus and anterior pituitary of two chicken breeds: the modern Ross 708 broiler and the Athens Canadian Random Bred (ACRB) line, the oldest established strain for meat-type chickens. Hypothalami and pituitary glands were dissected from embryos at days 10, 12, 14, 16, and 18 of incubation (n = 4 for each combination of breed, age, and gender). Levels of mRNA for each target gene were quantified using reverse transcription-quantitative PCR. In the adrenocorticotropic axis, pituitary corticotropin-releasing hormone receptor 1 mRNA levels were influenced by the interaction of breed, age, and gender (P < 0.05). In the thyrotropic axis, pituitary thyroid-stimulating hormone β-subunit mRNA levels were affected by the interaction of breed, age, and gender (P < 0.05). In the somatotropic axis, mRNA levels of hypothalamic somatostatin were higher in ACRB than Ross, whereas overall pituitary growth hormone mRNA levels were greater in Ross than ACRB (P < 0.05). Pituitary growth hormone-releasing hormone receptor 2 and pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide receptor 1 were influenced by the interaction between breed and age (P < 0.05). In the gonadotropic axis, hypothalamic gonadotropin-releasing hormone 1 and gonadotropin-inhibiting hormone were influenced by breed, age, and gender, while mRNA levels of pituitary follicle-stimulating hormone β-subunit were affected by the interaction between breed and age (P < 0.05). Hypothalamic agouti-related peptide, neuropeptide Y, and proopiomelanocortin mRNA levels were higher in ACRB than Ross in females (P < 0.05). These findings indicate that genetic selection of broilers has altered the adrenocorticotropic, somatotropic, thyrotropic, and gonadotropic axes, as well as hypothalamic control of appetite and metabolism during embryonic development.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus (VMN) growth hormone-releasing hormone (Ghrh) neurotransmission governs counterregulatory hormone release. Recent studies document Ghrh control of hypoglycemia-sensitive counterregulatory neurotransmitter expression in dorsomedial VMN (VMNdm) Ghrh/steroidogenic factor-1 (SF-1) neurons. In this study, Ghrh receptor (Ghrh-R) gene silencing was implemented in vivo to determine if VMN Ghrh-R shapes counterregulation. Intra-VMN Ghrh-R siRNA augmented corticosterone secretion in vehicle or insulin-injected male rats, but this hormone was correspondingly refractory or inhibited in eu- versus hypoglycemic females. In each sex, gene knockdown up- or down-regulated baseline glucagon and growth hormone (GH) release, but hypoglycemia reversed the direction of Ghrh-R control of each hormone. Single-cell laser catapult-microdissected VMNdm Ghrh/SF-1 neuron multiplex qPCR analysis revealed contrary VMN Ghrh-R gene-silencing effects on eu- versus hypoglycemic SF-1 mRNA levels. In both sexes, Ghrh-R siRNA up-regulated mRNAs encoding counterregulation-repressive (γ-aminobutyric acid) or -enhancing (nitric oxide) transmitter protein markers, unrelated to plasma glycemic profiles. Ghrh-R regulation of Ghrh gene transcription was absent (euglycemic) or stimulatory (hypoglycemic) in females, and receptor control of glutaminase mRNA, a marker for the counterregulatory-augmenting neurochemical glutamate, was lost in hypoglycemic males. Ghrh-R gene silencing caused uniform up-regulation of 5'-AMP-activated protein kinase alpha-2 (AMPKα2) mRNA in each sex, independent of glucose status, but caused dissimilar changes in AMPKα1 transcription in eu- versus hypoglycemic females. The outcomes provide novel evidence that VMN Ghrh-R signaling imposes glucose-dependent control of counterregulatory hormone secretion and distinctive VMNdm neuron counterregulatory transmitter marker gene profiles. Data infer that this metabolic control may involve SF-1 (both sexes)- and AMPKα1 (female)-dependent mechanisms.
Estradiol shapes systemic glucose homeostasis by action on ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus (VMN) targets. The neuropeptide transmitter growth hormone-releasing hormone (Ghrh) governs counterregulatory neurochemical marker mRNA expression in dorsomedial VMN (VMNdm) Ghrh/steroidogenic factor-1 (SF-1/Nr5a1) neurons. The current research used tools for in vivo gene silencing and single-cell laser catapult microdissection/multiplex qPCR to determine if VMN Ghrh receptor (Ghrh-R) regulates nuclear and/or membrane estrogen receptor (ER) gene transcription in those neurons. Intra-VMN Ghrh-R siRNA correspondingly up- or down-regulated baseline VMNdm Ghrh/SF-1 neuron ER-alpha (ERα) or G protein-coupled estrogen receptor-1 (GPER) transcripts in male rats; neither mRNA was affected by gene silencing in females. In each sex, hypoglycemic repression of these ER gene profiles was averted by Ghrh-R gene knockdown. Both sexes exhibited diminished baseline VMNdm Ghrh/SF-1 neuron ER-beta (ERβ) gene expression following Ghrh-R gene knockdown. ERβ mRNA was diminished (male) or unaffected (female) by hypoglycemia; Ghrh-R siRNA pretreatment enhanced transcript levels in hypoglycemic rats of either sex. Aromatase gene expression is higher in male versus female VMNdm Ghrh/SF-1 neurons and is inhibited by hypoglycemia in male rats alone. Ghrh-R gene knockdown augmented aromatase mRNA levels in each sex irrespective of glucose status. Results document glucose-dependent Ghrh-R control of VMNdm Ghrh/SF-1 neuron ERα (female), ERβ (both sexes), and GPER (both sexes) gene expression. Ongoing studies aim to characterize mechanisms that cause a hypoglycemia-associated gain of regulatory control or switch in direction (stimulatory-to-inhibitory) of control. Outcomes identify VMNdm Ghrh/SF-1 neurons as a putative neuroestradiol source in each sex and implicate Ghrh-R in hypoglycemic repression of this neurosteroid profile in males.© 2025 the author(s), published by De Gruyter.
Isolated Growth Hormone Deficiency Type 2 (IGHD2) is caused by a heterozygous splice site variant in intron 3 of the GH1 gene. The resulting exon 3-skipped growth hormone (Δ3 GH), produced from the mutated allele, exerts a dominant-negative effect, leading to growth hormone (GH) deficiency. However, the precise molecular mechanisms underlying this effect remain poorly understood. While several model murine models expressing human Δ3 GH have been developed, no IGHD2 mouse models featuring variants in the endogenous Gh gene currently exist. We generated a mouse model (Gh+/Δ3) with a heterozygous deletion of exon 3 in the Gh gene using CRISPR/Cas9 system. The Gh+/Δ3 model exhibited GH deficiency caused by a dominant-negative effect at the mRNA level, characterized by reduced Gh mRNA expression. This mechanism parallels findings in our previous humanized IGHD2 mouse model, where the deficiency was driven by decreased Ghrhr mRNA expression. Transcriptome analysis of the pituitary revealed widespread downregulation of mRNAs encoding membrane and secretory proteins. The dominant-negative effect of Δ3 GH in IGHD2 is mediated by properties of Δ3 GH that are conserved across both humans and mice. This mechanism involves the downregulation of mRNAs, including those encoding membrane and secretory proteins, such as Ghrhr mRNA.
Skipped: PubMed ID 39934495 is a review article
Mutations in myogenesis regulating glycosidase (MYORG), result in autosomal recessive (AR) form of Primary Familial Brain Calcification (PFBC) which is a rare neurodegenerative disease. PFBC is characterized by symmetric brain calcifications, particularly in the thalami, cerebellum, basal ganglia, and subcortical white matter. To date, eight genes have been linked with PFBC, however, currently about half of people with PFBC remain without a genetic diagnosis. Among these genes, MYORG, JAM2, CMPK2, and NAA60 are associated with an AR-PFBC. Within AR-PFBCs, the frequency of mutations in MYORG and JAM2 is 13% and 2%, respectively. In this study, we present a comprehensive clinical and genetic analysis of a group of Iranian PFBC patients.Clinical and paraclinical assessments of all patients were done. Whole-exome sequencing was performed for all probands. Candidate variants were confirmed and checked in their family members.Four homozygous variants in MYORG across four families were identified: two novel variants, c.1727G > A;p.Arg576His and c.1687del;p.The563Glnfs*191, in two families and two known mutations, c.176G > A;p.Gly59Asp and c.1092_1097del;p.Phe365_Asp366del in the remaining two families. A potential SNV/CNV in the PFBC-related genes that causes disease was not detected in one proband.Our study expanded the clinical features and mutation spectrum of MYORG and emphasizes to genetic heterogeneity in different populations. While SLC20A2 mutations are the common cause of PFBC in other populations, MYORG and JAM2 mutations seem to be the main cause of this disease in Iran. This issue could prove to be advantageous in the process of gene prioritization for screening within this specific population.© 2025. Fondazione Società Italiana di Neurologia.
Primary familial brain calcification (PFBC) is a genetic neurological disorder characterized by symmetric brain calcifications that manifest with variable neurological symptoms. This study aimed to explore the genetic basis of PFBC and elucidate the underlying pathophysiological mechanisms. Six patients from four pedigrees with brain calcification were enrolled. Whole-exome sequencing identified two novel homozygous variants, c.488G > T (p.W163L) and c.2135G > A (p.W712*), within the myogenesis regulating glycosidase (MYORG) gene. Cerebellar ataxia (n = 5) and pyramidal signs (n = 4) were predominant symptoms, with significant clinical heterogeneity noted even within the same family. An autopsy of one patient revealed extensive brainstem calcifications, sparing the cerebral cortex, and marked by calcifications predominantly in capillaries and arterioles. The pathological study suggested morphological alterations characterized by shortened foot processes within astrocytes in regions with pronounced calcification and decreased immunoreactivity of AQP4. The morphology of astrocytes in regions without calcification remains preserved. Neuronal loss and gliosis were observed in the basal ganglia, thalamus, brainstem, cerebellum, and dentate nucleus. Notably, olivary hypertrophy, a previously undescribed feature in MYORG-PFBC, was discovered. Neuroimaging showed reduced blood flow in the cerebellum, highlighting the extent of cerebellar involvement. Among perivascular cells constituting the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and neurovascular unit, MYORG is most highly expressed in astrocytes. Astrocytes are integral components of the BBB, and their dysfunction can precipitate BBB disruption, potentially leading to brain calcification and subsequent neuronal loss. This study presents two novel homozygous variants in the MYORG gene and highlights the pivotal role of astrocytes in the development of brain calcifications, providing insights into the pathophysiological mechanisms underlying PFBC associated with MYORG variants.© 2024. The Author(s).
Calcification of the cerebral microvessels in the basal ganglia in the absence of systemic calcium and phosphate imbalance is a hallmark of primary familial brain calcification (PFBC), a rare neurodegenerative disorder. Mutation in genes encoding for sodium-dependent phosphate transporter 2 (SLC20A2), xenotropic and polytropic retrovirus receptor 1 (XPR1), platelet-derived growth factor B (PDGFB), platelet-derived growth factor receptor beta (PDGFRB), myogenesis regulating glycosidase (MYORG), and junctional adhesion molecule 2 (JAM2) are known to cause PFBC. Loss-of-function mutations in XPR1, the only known inorganic phosphate exporter in metazoans, causing dominantly inherited PFBC was first reported in 2015 but until now no studies in the brain have addressed whether loss of one functional allele leads to pathological alterations in mice, a commonly used organism to model human diseases. Here we show that mice heterozygous for Xpr1 (Xpr1WT/lacZ ) present with reduced inorganic phosphate levels in the cerebrospinal fluid and age- and sex-dependent growth of vascular calcifications in the thalamus. Vascular calcifications are surrounded by vascular basement membrane and are located at arterioles in the smooth muscle layer. Similar to previously characterized PFBC mouse models, vascular calcifications in Xpr1WT/lacZ mice contain bone matrix proteins and are surrounded by reactive astrocytes and microglia. However, microglial activation is not confined to calcified vessels but shows a widespread presence. In addition to vascular calcifications, we observed vessel tortuosity and transmission electron microscopy analysis revealed microangiopathy-endothelial swelling, phenotypic alterations in vascular smooth muscle cells, and thickening of the basement membrane.© 2023 The Authors. Brain Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of International Society of Neuropathology.
Glycoside hydrolase family 31 (GH31) contains α-glycoside hydrolases with different substrate specificities involved in various physiological functions. This family has recently been classified into 20 subfamilies using sequence similarity networks. An α-galactosidase from the gut bacterium Bacteroides salyersiae (BsGH31_19, which belongs to GH31 subfamily 19) was reported to have hydrolytic activity against the synthetic substrate p- nitrophenyl α-galactopyranoside, but its natural substrate remained unknown. BsGH31_19 shares low sequence identity (around 20%) with other reported GH31 α-galactosidases, PsGal31A from Pseudopedobacter saltans and human myogenesis-regulating glycosidase (MYORG), and was expected to have distinct specificity. Here, we characterized BsGH31_19 and its ortholog from a soil Bacteroidota bacterium, Flavihumibacter petaseus (FpGH31_19), and demonstrated that they showed high substrate specificity against α-(1→4)-linkages in α-(1→4)-galactobiose and globotriose [α-Gal-(1→4)-β-Gal-(1→4)-Glc], unlike PsGal31A and MYORG. The crystallographic analyses of BsGH31_19 and FpGH31_19 showed that their overall structures resemble those of MYORG and form a dimer with an interface different from that of PsGal31A and MYORG dimers. The structures of FpGH31_19 complexed with d-galactose and α-(1→4)-galactobiose revealed that amino acid residues that recognize a galactose residue at subsite +1 are not conserved between FpGH31_19 and BsGH31_19. The tryptophan (Trp153) that recognizes galactose at subsite -1 is homologous to the tryptophan residues in MYORG and α-galactosidases belonging to GH27, GH36, and GH97, but not in the bacterial GH31 member PsGal31A. Our results provide structural insights into molecular diversity and evolutionary relationships in the GH31 α-galactosidase subfamilies and the other α-galactosidase families.© 2023 Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
Primary familial brain calcification (PFBC) is characterised by abnormal deposits of calcium phosphate within various regions of the brain that are associated with severe cognitive impairments, psychiatric conditions, and movement disorders. Recent studies in diverse populations have shown a link between mutations in myogenesis-regulating glycosidase (MYORG) and the development of this disease. MYORG is a member of glycoside hydrolase (GH) family 31 (GH31) and, like the other mammalian GH31 enzyme α-glucosidase II, this enzyme is found in the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Though presumed to act as an α-glucosidase due to its localization and sequence relatedness to α-glucosidase II, MYORG has never been shown to exhibit catalytic activity. Here, we show that MYORG is an α-galactosidase and present the high-resolution crystal structure of MYORG in complex with substrate and inhibitor. Using these structures, we map detrimental mutations that are associated with MYORG-associated brain calcification and define how these mutations may drive disease progression through loss of enzymatic activity. Finally, we also detail the thermal stabilisation of MYORG afforded by a clinically approved small molecule ligand, opening the possibility of using pharmacological chaperones to enhance the activity of mutant forms of MYORG.
Skipped: PubMed ID 34432325 is a review article
Variants in the myogenesis-regulating glycosidase (MYORG) gene which is known as the first autosomal recessive gene that has been associated with primary familial brain calcification (AR-PFBC). Although adult patients have been reported, no pediatric case has been reported until now. Herein, we review the clinical and radiological features of all AR- PFBC patients with biallelic variants in the MYORG gene who were reported until now, and we report the youngest patient who has a novel homozygous variant. Since the first identification of the MYORG gene in 2018, 74cases of MYORG variants related to AR-PFBC were evaluated. The ages of symptom onset of the patients ranged between 7.5 and 87 years. The most frequent clinical courses were speech impairment, movement disorder and cerebellar signs. All patients showed basal ganglia calcification usually bilaterally with different severities. Conclusion; herein, we reported the first pediatric patient in the literature who had a novel homozygous variant in the MYORG gene with mild clinic findings.Copyright © 2021 The Japanese Society of Child Neurology. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Sepsis is a life-threatening condition that requires reliable biomarkers for appropriate clinical assessment. Histidine-rich glycoprotein (HRG) has emerged as a promising biomarker candidate associated with sepsis severity. We previously developed an ELISA method using monoclonal antibodies, 69-1 A and 75-2D for sensitive and specific quantification of plasma HRG. However, the assay required extensive sample dilution and further optimization to improve analytical robustness. In the present study, we developed an optimized ELISA by reducing sample dilution ratio and extending the measurable range toward higher HRG concentrations through a competitive reaction system incorporating a small amount of free 75-2D antibody. The optimized assay covered a plasma HRG range of 16-250 μg/mL and showed lower coefficients of variation than the previous method. The optimized method also showed good correlation with the previous ELISA. In addition, we evaluated recombinant single-isoform HRG protein as candidate calibrator material for this assay system. Because both isoforms showed comparable reactivity and dilution linearity, recombinant Form-1 HRG (an isoform bearing Pro at 204-position, 75 kDa) was selected as a practical candidate calibrator based on its simpler glycosylation-related characteristics and quantitative assignment by amino acid analysis. Our new findings support the optimization of ELISA system and a single-isoform recombinant calibrator for more reproducible HRG measurement. It is expected that analytical standardization and clinical validation will subsequently be performed to establish in vitro diagnostic application in actual clinical use.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Histidine-rich glycoprotein (HRG) is a 75-kDa plasma protein produced by the liver and circulating at about 2 µM, with an additional pool in platelets that is released upon activation. Previously, we demonstrated that HRG downregulates the contact system by binding polyanions and reducing their capacity to activate factor (F) XII. Although HRG localizes on the platelet surface, its role in platelet biology remains uncertain. Accordingly, we investigated whether HRG directly engages platelet receptors to regulate adhesion and aggregation. Using human and murine platelets, we show that HRG (a) binds to glycoprotein (GP)Ibα on resting and activated platelets and to GPIIb/IIIa on activated platelets, (b) competes with von Willebrand factor (VWF) for binding to GPIbα on resting platelets and with fibrinogen for binding to GPIIb/IIIa on activated platelets, and (c) attenuates platelet agglutination, aggregation, and platelet-mediated thrombus growth. Furthermore, in an endothelial-platelet flow system or a collagen-coated microperfusion chamber, HRG reduced VWF-mediated platelet string formation and attenuated platelet deposition under high-shear conditions. Plasma HRG levels in patients with sepsis or COVID-19 were about half those of healthy controls, and reducing HRG to these levels in vitro promoted a hyperreactive platelet phenotype. Therefore, HRG not only modulates coagulation but also platelet adhesion and aggregation by competing with VWF and fibrinogen for binding to GPIbα and GPIIb/IIIa.Copyright © 2026 American Society of Hematology.
Recurrent miscarriage (RM) is a major reproductive concern affecting a large number of women worldwide. Genetic factors are thought to play an important role in RM. Due to its potential function in angiogenesis, the histidine-rich glycoprotein (HRG) gene has become a focus of research. Therefore, the present study aimed to determine the association between the HRG A1043G single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) and RM.To meet the objectives of the study, 110 women with a history of RM were included. The control group consisted of 60 women who had delivered children and had no history of miscarriage. Blood samples were collected from all participants; genomic DNA was extracted and amplified using polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Sanger sequencing was performed to screen for the A1043G polymorphism in exon 7 of the HRG gene.The findings revealed a significant association between the HRG SNP and the risk of RM at both genotypic and allelic levels. Compared to the AA genotype, mutant genotypes (AG + GG) showed a significantly higher risk of RM (p = 0.041). The G allele was also significantly associated with RM, as indicated by the odds ratio (OR) analysis (p = 0.018).The present study demonstrated that genetic variation in the HRG gene may contribute to susceptibility to RM.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Acute myocardial infarction (AMI) triggers systemic biochemical responses, including dynamic changes in the phosphorylation status of circulating proteins. However, the phosphoproteomic profile of serum in the context of AMI remains insufficiently characterized. This study aimed to investigate serum phosphoproteomic alterations associated with AMI and to explore potential correlations with markers of cardiac injury.A comparative phosphoproteomic analysis was performed on serum samples obtained from eight patients with AMI and pooled healthy control samples. High-abundance serum proteins were depleted, and phosphopeptides were enriched using TiO2 phosphopeptide enrichment kit. Samples were analyzed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry using a Q Exactive HF-X Orbitrap mass spectrometer. Data were searched against the Homo sapiens database using Sequest HT with a 1% false discovery rate and were quantified by label-free quantification using Proteome Discoverer version 2.4.A total of 46 phosphoproteins were confidently identified, revealing distinct phosphorylation profiles between AMI and control samples. Increased phosphorylation levels were observed for solute carrier family 12 member 5, apolipoprotein L1, the low-molecular-weight isoform of kininogen-1, and osteopontin in AMI serum. Conversely, phosphorylated inter-alpha-trypsin inhibitor heavy chain H2, antithrombin III, histidine-rich glycoprotein, peroxiredoxin-4, GTPase ERas, and the 26S proteasome non-ATPase regulatory subunit 1 were reduced or undetectable. A strong negative correlation was found between apolipoprotein L1 phosphorylation and cardiac troponin I concentrations (r = -0.91; p = 0.0016).These findings demonstrate that serum phosphoproteomics can provide valuable insights into the molecular events associated with AMI. The inverse relationship between apolipoprotein L1 phosphorylation and cardiac troponin I levels suggests that phosphoproteomic profiling may aid in understanding myocardial injury mechanisms.© TÜBİTAK.
Endometrial cancer (EC) is a growing global healthcare concern. The diagnosis of EC involves invasive techniques. There is a pressing need for reliable, non-invasive screening methods utilizing biomarkers that diagnose these patients.We conducted a case-control study consists of 40 women including 20 EC (cancer group) and 20 controls (control group) recruited from King Khalid University Hospital, King Saud University. All participants include both cancer and control groups underwent histopathological examination for confirmation. Cancer group had a confirmed diagnosis of EC and control group confirmed benign tissue, verified by histopathological examination. Midstream urine samples were collected under standardized fasting conditions, and proteins extracted using methanol-chloroform precipitation. An untargeted label-free LC-MS/MS mass spectrometric approach combined with bioinformatics was used to determine changes in the proteomic profiles. Multivariate statistical analysis (PCA, OPLS-DA) using MetaboAnalyst v6.0. functional annotation and pathway enrichment were carried out using Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA) and PANTHER classification to identify key biological processes and canonical pathways associated with EC.The participants in this cohort were matched for age, with a mean of 59.50 ± 7.13 years in the EC group, and 54.15 ± 10.45 years, in the controls. The study found EC patients had significant differences in 193 proteins (117 upregulated and 76 downregulated) when compared to the controls. There was a clear separation seen between the EC and control groups in multivariate analyses using the PCA, PLS-DA, and OPLS-DA. Glutamate dehydrogenase 1 (GLUD1) and Iduronate 2-sulfatase, both of which were found to be downregulated, and histidine-rich glycoprotein, which was upregulated in EC patients with AUCs of 0.945, 0.965, and 0.875 in the receiver operating curve analysis. Pathway enrichment analysis and network analysis provided molecular insights into the activation of Fc gamma receptor-dependent phagocytosis, complement activation, TRIM21 signaling, and amino acid metabolism.The study identified three key biomarkers, GLUD1, Iduronate 2-sulfatase, and histidine-rich glycoprotein, that were significantly dysregulated in patients with EC. The findings highlight that there are systemic immune engagement and tumor-driven metabolic shifts in EC.Copyright © 2026 Akkour, Rafiullah, Masood, Alanazi, Alfadda, Joy, Bassi, Alhalal, Alshehri, Arafah, Nawaz and Benabdelkamel.
The aim of this study was to investigate whether genotypes of HRG may modify the effect of Se(selenium) on all-cause mortality and cancer risk. The study was conducted on 2782 initially unaffected women from families with familial breast cancers, all registered at the Hereditary Cancer Centre in Szczecin. Participants were aged 40 years or older and were recruited between September 2010 and March 2024. Women carrying a BRCA1 mutation and those with a diagnosed cancer were excluded from the study. Blood Se levels were measured using inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry, and molecular analyses of HRG (Histidine-rich glycoprotein) genotypes were performed using real-time PCR with TaqMan probes. After an average follow-up period of 6 years and 2 months, 89 deaths and 210 cases of cancer were identified. The study showed significant differences in the reference range of blood selenium levels, as well as its impact on all-cause mortality and cancer risk, depending on HRG genotype. The most striking finding regarding all-cause mortality risk was observed among women over 50 years of age, effect estimates are presented as hazard ratios (HRs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs). Regardless of genotype, women with blood selenium (Se) levels in the lowest quartile (Q1) had a significantly higher all-cause mortality risk compared with those in the highest quartile (Q4), (HR = 3.07; 95%CI: 1.53-6.16; p = 0.001). Among women with the HRG non-TT genotype, the risk was even more pronounced-those with Se levels in Q1 had a significantly increased mortality risk compared with women in the higher quartiles (Q2-Q4) (HR = 7.68; 95%CI: 2.31-25.47; p = 0.0008). In contrast, for carriers of the HRG TT genotype, increased all-cause mortality risk was observed only when blood Se levels were in Q1 compared with Q4 (HR = 2.40; 95%CI: 1.09-5.31; p = 0.029). Important findings for any cancer risk have emerged in women below 50 years of age. Among women with the HRG TT genotype, the cancer risk was significantly increased in Q1 compared with women in Q2 (HR = 4.15; 95%CI: 1.55-11.06; p = 0.004). In contrast, the results for HRG non-TT carriers, regardless of genotype, were statistically insignificant. In summary, mortality and cancer risk appeared to be dependent on HRG genotype and blood Se levels.
We report a thirty-six-year-old woman with intellectual disability who was referred for evaluation of suspected obstructive sleep apnea. The initial clinical impression suggested a syndromic case, so comprehensive genetic testing was undertaken. Overnight polysomnography revealed a severe rapid eye movement-predominant obstructive sleep apnea syndrome with an apnea-hypopnea index of 31.9 events per hour, rapid eye movement apnea-hypopnea index of 113.8 events per hour, and lowest oxygen saturation of 66%. Treatment with continuous positive airway pressure improved respiratory and sleep quality indices and was well tolerated. Whole-exome sequencing identified a de novo splice site variant in the pleckstrin homology domain interacting protein gene (c.41-1G > A), confirming a molecular diagnosis of Chung-Jansen Syndrome. Chung-Jansen syndrome is a rare neurodevelopmental disorder caused by heterozygous pathogenic variants in the pleckstrin homology domain interacting protein gene, marked by developmental delay, intellectual disability, behavioral abnormalities, dysmorphism, and progressive obesity. PHIP influences central and peripheral pathways controlling satiety, pancreatic function, and body weight. Despite frequent reports of sleep problems, systematic evaluation of sleep-disordered breathing has been limited. This adult case provides the first polysomnographic confirmation in the syndrome, supporting proactive screening for obstructive sleep apnea-especially in those with obesity. Integrating genetic assessment into sleep care can reduce diagnostic delays and better guide therapy and prognosis.
Children with complicated severe malnutrition (CSM) face high mortality after hospital discharge, yet the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. While early post-discharge mortality (< 2 months) has been linked to a sepsis-like inflammatory profile measured at discharge, it is unclear whether this relationship persists (later mortality; 2-6 months post-discharge). This study investigated whether immune, inflammatory, and endothelial dysfunction at 2 months post-discharge are associated with later mortality in children recovering from CSM.We conducted a case-control study nested within a randomised placebo-controlled trial of daily co-trimoxazole in HIV-negative children aged 2-59 months with CSM in four Kenyan hospitals. Cases were children who died between 2 and 6 months post-discharge; controls were survivors frequency-matched by sex, site, and trial arm. Plasma cytokines, chemokines, endothelial markers, and untargeted proteomics were measured at discharge and 2 months post-discharge. Conditional Cox regression, adjusted for age, sex, site, mid-upper arm circumference (MUAC), and randomisation arm, was used to identify biomarkers associated with later mortality.Cases were younger (had a median of 7 vs. 11 months), had longer hospital stays (14 vs. 10 days), and showed lower anthropometry (MUAC = 10.7 vs. 12.0 cm) and lower haemoglobin (9.7 vs. 10.6 g/dL) at 2 months post-discharge (all p < 0.05). Mortality 2-6 months post-discharge was associated with elevated inflammatory mediators (e.g. IL-10 [hazard ratio, HR: 1.47, 95% confidence interval, CI: 1.00-2.14], IL-15 [1.65, 95% CI: 1.08-2.51], IFN-α2 [1.51, 95% CI: 1.02-2.23]), acute phase proteins, apolipoproteins and coagulation markers, including fibrinogen, histidine-rich glycoprotein (1.40, 95% CI: 1.01-1.94), protein C inhibitor (SERPINA5, 1.50, 95% CI: 1.07-2.08), SERPINA10 (1.42, 95% CI: 1.02-1.99), and ADAMTS13 (0.41, 95% CI: 0.24-0.70). Additionally, cardiovascular and muscle-related proteins such as angiotensinogen (1.46, 95% CI: 1.03-2.08), α- and β-tropomyosin (0.68, 95% CI: 0.48-0.98), PI16 (0.72, 95% CI:0.54-0.97), and zyxin (0.61, 95% CI: 0.40-0.92) were elevated in cases.Later mortality in children recovering from CSM is associated with persistent immune activation, a sepsis-like phenotype involving multiple systems. These findings suggest that children at risk of later mortality may benefit from biomarker-guided interventions initiated at discharge.© 2026. The Author(s).
Histidine-rich glycoprotein (HRG) is a multifunctional plasma glycoprotein involved in the regulation of various biological processes. Decreased plasma levels of HRG at 72 h after lung transplantation have been shown to be associated with severe primary graft dysfunction and poor transplant outcomes. In this study, we examined the effect of HRG supplementation on lung ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI) in mice.The experimental mice were divided into a Sham group and three IRI groups (n=5 each) that received phosphate-buffered saline, human serum albumin, or HRG (HRG/IRI group), respectively. The lung function, lung injury, neutrophil infiltration, cellular apoptosis, inflammatory mediators, neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs), translocation status of high-mobility group box 1 (HMGB1), and hemolytic products in the injured tissue/plasma were compared among the groups.The HRG/IRI group showed significantly improved oxygenation capacity and a reduced severity of lung injury as compared with the other IRI groups. The HRG/IRI group also showed significantly less severe tissue inflammation in the reperfused lung, including a lower level of neutrophil infiltration, apoptotic cells, and neutrophil-associated inflammatory mediators than the other IRI groups. Moreover, formation of NETs and HMGB1 translocation were significantly suppressed in the HRG/IRI group as compared with the other IRI groups. A significantly greater degree of scavenging of hemolytic products was observed in the HRG/IRI group than the other IRI groups.HRG supplementation ameliorated lung IRI in mice by suppressing inflammatory responses triggered by neutrophil-associated factors, including formation of NETs, HMGB1 translocation, and accumulation of hemolytic products.© 2025 International Society for Heart and Lung Transplantation.
The ubiquitination system in hepatocytes and its direct role in antibacterial defense during sepsis remain poorly understood. This study investigated the mechanism by which the E3 ubiquitin ligase Midline 1 (Mid1) regulates the degradation of histidine-rich glycoprotein (HRG) during bacterial infection, and a proof-of-concept approach was proposed to block Mid1 and relieve hepatic sepsis.Transcriptomic analysis of livers from a mouse cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) model was used to reveal changes in the global ubiquitination and Mid1 level. Immunoprecipitation, coupled with mass spectrometry, and native PAGE, was used to assess the proteins that bind to Mid1. The therapeutic effects of Mid1 in vivo were evaluated through hepatocyte-specific siRNAs and inhibitors.Mid1 was significantly upregulated in hepatocytes from both CLP mice and patients with acute infection, accompanied by increased global ubiquitination. Inhibiting Mid1 in hepatocytes enhanced their antibacterial capacity and reduced infection-induced cellular damage in cellulo and in vivo experiments. Mid1 overexpression increased bacterial survival in AML12 hepatocyte cell lines. Mechanistically, Mid1 physically directly binds the HRG and targets it for ubiquitin-proteasomal degradation. Crucially, HRG, identified as a novel Mid1 substrate, is critical for antibacterial defense-blocking HRG abolished the protective effects of Mid1 knockdown. Hepatocyte-specific Mid1 siRNA and DPP4 inhibitors improved systemic outcomes and survival in septic mice.This study highlights that the Mid1-HRG ubiquitination axis is a critical regulator of sepsis progression, suggesting a novel therapeutic strategy to augment the liver's intrinsic antibacterial activity.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Osteoporosis (OP) occurs with decreased bone mass and deterioration of the bone microarchitecture. This can lead to an increased incidence of bone fractures. In traditional Chinese medicine, the herbal pair of Eucommia ulmoides and Achyranthes bidentata is used to tonify the liver and kidney in order to strengthen bones. This study examined the network pharmacology and molecular docking of the pair to investigate the pharmacological mechanisms of the drug pair against OP. Active compounds were retrieved from the Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology database if they had an oral bioavailability of 30% or greater and a drug-likeness score of 0.18 or greater. OP-associated targets were identified from the GeneCards and Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man databases. The compound-target-disease network and protein-protein interaction network were built using Cytoscape and the Search Tool for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes/Proteins, respectively. Key pathways were identified using the Database for Annotation, Visualization and Integrated Discovery functional enrichment analysis. To predict the potential binding interactions between the major compounds and the hub targets, molecular docking was used. In total, 49 active compounds (28 from E ulmoides and 21 from A bidentata) and 95 overlapping therapeutic targets were found. Quercetin, kaempferol, β-sitosterol, stigmasterol and wogonin were identified as key bioactive components within the network analysis. Fourteen hub targets, including interleukin-6, vascular endothelial growth factor A, tumor necrosis factor, tumor protein p53, and mitogen-activated protein kinase 1, were identified through protein-protein interaction analysis. Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment revealed involvement in tumor necrosis factor, mitogen-activated protein kinase, hypoxia-inducible factor 1, Toll-like receptor, and NOD-like receptor signaling pathways. Molecular docking demonstrated favorable binding affinities between the key compounds and core proteins, suggesting potential interactions consistent with the network pharmacology predictions. The Eucommia-Achyranthes herbal pair may exert potential therapeutic effects on OP through multicomponent, multi-target, and multi-pathway interactions. Its main bioactive compounds may potentially interact with inflammatory and osteogenic signaling pathways via key targets such as interleukin-6, vascular endothelial growth factor A, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, tumor protein p53, and mitogen-activated protein kinase 1, which may be associated with bone metabolism and structural integrity. These findings provide a theoretical foundation for future experimental and clinical validation.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Knee osteoarthritis (KOA) is the most common joint disorder and causes pain and functional limitation. Patients who are refractory to conservative treatment or unsuitable for surgery owing to advanced age or comorbidities have limited options. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is implicated in synovitis, angiogenesis and pain in KOA. microRNA (miRNA) based therapies have recently attracted attentions. This study aimed to investigate whether intra-articular delivery of VEGF-targeting miRNA can reduce synovitis and pain.Human synovial sarcoma cell line HS-SY-II was used for screening of VEGF-targeting miRNAs and primary synovial fibroblasts derived from KOA patients was used for confirmation of the efficacy. miRNA mimics were transfected and VEGF production was quantified. In vivo analyses, KOA was induced by anterior cruciate ligament transection and medial meniscectomy (ACLT model). Wistar rats were randomly allocated to 5 groups in 2 cohorts (n = 5 per group per cohort): normal (no ACLT), ACLT + negative control miRNA (NC), ACLT + miR-126-3p, ACLT + miR-140-5p, and ACLT + a combination of miR-126-3p and miR-140-5p (miR-Mix). miRNA mimics were injected intra-articularly. Hindlimb weight-bearing was assessed using incapacitance tester. Synovitis and cartilage degeneration were evaluated histologically. VEGF levels in synovial fluid, synovium and cartilage were quantified by Simple Western analysis. Non-parametric tests and repeated-measures analyses were performed, with p < 0.05 considered statistically significant.Combination of miR-126-3p and miR-140-5p suppressed VEGF production in HS-SY-II cells than either miRNA alone and the suppressive activity on VEGF production was confirmed in primary synovial fibroblasts from KOA patients. In ACLT rats, synovial VEGF levels were increased in NC group compared with normal rats and tended to be lower in all miRNA-treated groups. Hindlimb weight-bearing ratios were reduced to about 30% after ACLT and remained low in the NC group, whereas they gradually improved in the miR-126-3p and miR-140-5p monotherapy groups and almost recovered in the miR-Mix group. At final time point, weight-bearing ratio was significantly higher in miR-Mix group than NC group. Histologically, Krenn scores were tend to lower in miR-126-3p and miR-Mix groups than NC group, indicating amelioration of synovitis, whereas OARSI histopathology scores for femoral cartilage did not differ significantly among groups and tended to be higher in miR-treated groups. There was a strong negative correlation between Krenn synovitis score and hindlimb weight-bearing ratio (Spearman's ρ = -0.7, p < 0.001).Intra-articular administration of VEGF-suppressive miR-Mix ameliorated synovitis and pain-related behaviour. In highly unstable traumatic model, however, structural protection of articular cartilage was not observed and cartilage degeneration even tended to be worse in miR-treated groups, possibly due to increased weight-bearing following pain relief.These findings suggest intra-articular delivery of VEGF-suppresive miRNAs may represent novel analgesic strategies for KOA by reducing synovitis within joint. miRNA-based modulation of VEGF production could potentially be translated into future disease-modifying and analgesic treatments, however further studies using non-traumatic KOA models, safety evaluation and clarifying molecular mechanisms are required.© 2026 The Authors.
Pancreatic islet transplantation can restore insulin production in patients with severe diabetes, but donor material is scarce, and early engraftment is constrained by inflammatory and mechanical stress and a prolonged avascular phase, during which oxygen and nutrient delivery are limited by diffusion. Revascularization relies primarily on stress-induced vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A), prolonging metabolic compromise, increasing autophagic burden, and rendering grafts vulnerable to secondary stress. Accelerating vascular integration during this time window is therefore critical for graft health. We show that β-cell-targeted aptamer-VEGF-A small activating RNA (saRNA) chimeras selectively induce robust VEGF-A expression in mouse and human islets independently of hypoxia- or nutrient-stress pathways, without activating autophagy or stress-responsive genes. In vivo, chimera-primed islets transplanted into anterior chamber and kidney capsule models exhibited accelerated vascular migration, earlier perfusion, and faster resolution of LC3-dependent autophagic stress without altering endpoint vascular density. Functionally, marginal-mass mouse and human grafts restored glucose control more effectively, preserved intra-islet architecture, and delayed hyperglycemia following STZ-induced β-cell loss. The RNA chimera's modular architecture of RNA chimeras allows transient, tissue-adaptable transcriptional activation across species and cell sources. These findings establish that brief, ex vivo RNA-mediated priming preconditions islets to withstand early engraftment stress, enhancing vascular integration and functional outcomes. This scalable, stress-independent strategy may lower the minimum effective transplant mass and expand access to cellular therapies for diabetes.© 2026. The Author(s).
Bevacizumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody against vascular endothelial growth factor A. Its long half-life and low volume of distribution allow circulating drug to persist in the body for weeks, which becomes clinically relevant when urgent or emergent surgery is needed. Because bevacizumab is largely intravascular, therapeutic plasma exchange (TPE) is attractive, though published experience is limited. We describe four adults who underwent TPE to facilitate surgery or postoperative wound healing after bevacizumab exposure: two with glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) before craniotomy, one with GBM after bowel resection with primary anastomosis, and one with metastatic rectal adenocarcinoma before craniotomy for a hemorrhagic brain mass. Patients received one to three sessions with albumin replacement, with fresh frozen plasma added in one case. No postoperative hemorrhage or delayed wound healing occurred. These cases support a practical role for TPE when residual bevacizumab exposure remains relevant and awaiting spontaneous clearance is not feasible.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Cannabidiol (CBD), a major non-psychoactive phytocannabinoid derived from Cannabis sativa L., has shown therapeutic potential in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). However, the mechanisms by which CBD modulates synovial angiogenesis remain unclear.This study aimed to investigate whether CBD attenuates RA progression by suppressing synovial angiogenesis and to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms.An adjuvant-induced arthritis (AIA) rat model was established to evaluate the therapeutic effects of CBD in vivo using arthritis scoring, micro-CT, and histopathological, immunohistochemical, and immunofluorescence analyses. In vitro, cytotoxicity was determined using the CCK-8 assay, followed by evaluations of CBD's direct effects on the proliferation, migration, invasion, and inflammatory responses of RA fibroblast-like synoviocytes (RA-FLS) were evaluated, alongside Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) for cytotoxicity screening. Furthermore, the paracrine regulation of angiogenesis was assessed using a conditioned medium (CM) transfer system from hypoxia-stimulated RA-FLS applied to human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). Molecular mechanisms were analyzed via Western blotting, RT-qPCR, ELISA, co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP), molecular docking, and targeted proteasome inhibition (MG132).In vivo, CBD (5 and 10 mg/kg) treatment markedly alleviated joint inflammation, synovial angiogenesis, and structural bone destruction in AIA rats. In vitro, non-cytotoxic concentrations of CBD (2.4-4.8 μM) significantly suppressed aberrant RA-FLS proliferation, migration, invasion, and pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion. Mechanistically, CBD abrogated the hypoxia-induced accumulation of hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α) protein in RA-FLS without significantly altering HIF1A mRNA expression. This reduction was effectively reversed by MG132. Co-IP and molecular docking analyses revealed that CBD directly enhances the polyubiquitination of HIF-1α through stable structural interactions, driving a ubiquitin-proteasome-dependent degradation mechanism. Consequently, CBD dose-dependently decreased the extracellular secretion of vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA) and angiopoietin-2 (ANG-2) from RA-FLS. Functionally, CM from CBD-treated RA-FLS disrupted the pro-angiogenic paracrine crosstalk-independent of direct CBD carryover-significantly impairing HUVEC migration, capillary-like tube formation, and downstream VEGFR2 (Tyr1175) phosphorylation.CBD attenuates RA pathogenesis not only by directly suppressing RA-FLS hyperactivity but also by severing the pro-angiogenic paracrine crosstalk between RA-FLS and endothelial cells. These effects are driven by the ubiquitin-proteasome-dependent degradation of HIF-1α in RA-FLS via direct structural engagement, which depletes VEGFA/ANG-2 production and subsequent endothelial VEGFR2 activation. These findings highlight CBD as a promising disease-modifying anti-angiogenic therapeutic agent for RA.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Wet age-related macular degeneration (wAMD) is a leading cause of irreversible vision loss characterized by pathological choroidal neovascularization (CNV). While anti-VEGF therapies are the standard of care, limitations such as treatment resistance and side effects necessitate novel therapeutic agents. This study evaluates the therapeutic efficacy and mechanism of EV30, a novel pterostilbene derivative, in suppressing CNV. EV30 was synthesized based on the pterostilbene template. In vitro, the effects of EV30 on human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) proliferation, migration, and tube formation were assessed using Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), scratch wound, and tube formation assays, respectively. Mechanistic pathways were investigated via Western blotting and RT-qPCR. In vivo, a laser-induced CNV mouse model was treated with intravitreal EV30. Efficacy was evaluated utilizing fundus photography, fluorescein angiography (FFA), optical coherence tomography (OCT), and choroidal flat mounts (IB4 staining). Finally, biosafety was assessed through histology (H&E), electroretinography (ERG), and blood analysis. EV30 demonstrated potent anti-angiogenic properties in vitro, significantly inhibiting HUVEC proliferation, migration, and tube formation in a dose- and time-dependent manner. EV30 reduced vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA) expression and modulated the phosphorylation status of proteins associated with the mTOR/NF-κB/p38 MAPK signaling pathway. In the laser-induced CNV model, EV30 effectively reduced lesion area and vascular leakage comparable to bevacizumab. Furthermore, ERG analysis revealed that EV30 partially preserved retinal electrophysiological function, as indicated by improved scotopic a-wave amplitudes, suggesting functional protection of the retina in the CNV model. EV30 exerted anti-angiogenic effects and was associated with modulation of mTOR/NF-κB/p38 MAPK signaling activity. Together, these findings suggest that EV30 represents a potential therapeutic candidate for CNV by suppressing pathological angiogenesis and modulating inflammation-associated signaling pathways.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Chronic intrauterine hypoxia (IUH) is a cause not only of early postnatal mortality but also of delayed central nervous system (CNS) impairments in offspring, including increased risks of acute cerebrovascular disorders, epilepsy, and neurodegenerative diseases. The above necessitates the urgent development of targeted neuroprotective strategies for newborns following IUH. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the neuroprotective effects of the 70 kDa heat shock protein (HSP70) modulators (angiolin, thiotriazolin, cerebrocurin, tamoxifen, glutaredoxin, and heat shock factor 1 (HSF-1)), as well as reference drugs, based on their impact on molecular markers of endothelial dysfunction (vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A), endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS), inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), nitrotyrosine), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), nerve growth factor (NGF), and caspase-8 in the brains of offspring after IUH at 1 and 2 months of age.Chronic hemic IUH was modeled in pregnant rats by daily administration of sodium nitrite (50 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) on days 16-21 of pregnancy. The male offspring were treated with the study drugs for 30 days starting on P1. Brain homogenates of offspring at P30 and P60 were analyzed using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for VEGF-A, eNOS, iNOS, nitrotyrosine, BDNF, NGF, and caspase-8.IUH caused persistent endothelial dysfunction, characterized by decreased VEGF and eNOS levels, and nitrosative stress, associated with increased iNOS and nitrotyrosine levels. These changes were accompanied by decreased neurotrophin levels, including BDNF and NGF, and increased caspase-8 levels. Course administration of angiolin, cerebrocurin, HSF-1, thiotriazolin, and glutaredoxin improved the eNOS/iNOS balance, increased VEGF levels, and decreased nitrotyrosine levels, with the effect persisting until P60. Cerebrocurin and angiolin demonstrated the strongest recovery of neurotrophic factors (normalization or exceeding normal BDNF/NGF levels by P60) and effectively suppressed caspase-8 to near-normal levels. A positive correlation was established between BDNF, NGF, and HSP70 levels.Pharmacological modulators of HSP70 provide effective multimodal neuroprotection due to endothelioprotective and neurotrophic effects. Angiolin and Cerebrocurin demonstrate significant therapeutic potential, offering a promising strategy for mitigating the long-term neurological sequelae of IUH.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
The ocular surface, comprising the cornea, conjunctiva, and sclera, relies on a complex extracellular matrix (ECM) for structural support and functional integrity. Decorin (DCN), a small leucine-rich proteoglycan, a key ECM component involved in collagen fibrillogenesis, growth factor modulation, and cellular regulation, is essential for maintaining corneal transparency, wound healing, and preventing pathological fibrosis. DCN interacts with various target molecules, including transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), influencing critical processes, such as cell proliferation, inflammation, and angiogenesis. These interactions underscore DCN's therapeutic potential in ocular disorders like corneal scarring, pterygium, and keratoconus. This review explores the structure, expression, and functions of DCN in the ocular surface, emphasizing its regulatory mechanisms and therapeutic potential. Recent advancements include gene therapy approaches, sustained release systems, and topical applications, each demonstrating significant promise in treating ocular surface diseases. Additionally, the review highlights the importance of DCN in ocular disorders, including congenital stromal corneal dystrophy (CSCD), KC, and pterygium. This review aims to elucidate the multifaceted roles of DCN, paving the way for innovative therapeutic strategies in ocular surface therapy. Future directions for DCN research involve advanced delivery mechanisms, gene editing technologies, and expanded studies on other ocular surfaces.
To investigate the impact of VEGFA and EGF genetic polymorphisms on postoperative survival, susceptibility, transcriptomics, and systemic proteomic regulation in cholangiocarcinoma (CCA).Angiogenesis and growth factor signaling via vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA) and epidermal growth factor (EGF) are key drivers of CCA biology, yet the clinical relevance of their genetic variants remains poorly defined.A cohort of 221 patients undergoing curative-intent CCA resection at Charité-Berlin was analyzed. Patients were genotyped for 6 angiogenesis-related SNPs, including VEGFA rs3025039 and EGF rs4444903, and survival associations were assessed using Cox regression. The prognostic relevance of intratumoral VEGFA and EGF mRNA expression and pathway co-expression was evaluated in an independent transcriptomic cohort. Population-level associations with CCA susceptibility and serum proteomics were analyzed in the UK Biobank (n>500,000).The VEGFA rs3025039 T allele was associated with improved cancer-specific survival, particularly in intrahepatic CCA, while the EGF rs4444903 G allele was linked to improved survival in perihilar CCA. High intratumoral VEGFA or EGF expression correlated with poorer survival in external validation, but this association was lost for EGF after multivariable adjustment. VEGFA -high tumors showed increased proliferative and suppressed immune transcriptional signatures, whereas EGF -high tumors displayed limited changes. UK Biobank analysis revealed increased intrahepatic CCA susceptibility among VEGFA T allele carriers, while the EGF G allele was associated with elevated circulating EGF levels.VEGFA and EGF polymorphisms exert distinct effects on CCA, influencing disease susceptibility, postoperative outcomes, and systemic signaling, supporting their potential as biomarkers for clinical stratification.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42521061 is a review article
Post-COVID-19 syndrome is a major long-term sequela of severe SARS-CoV-2 infection, potentially involving persistent angiogenic and thromboinflammatory dysfunction, though long-term biomarker behavior remains unclear.To evaluate the evolution of angiogenic and thromboinflammatory biomarkers in post-COVID-19 syndrome patients.This ambispective cohort study was conducted at the National Institute of Respiratory Diseases in Mexico City. Thirty-two adults hospitalized for severe or critical COVID-19 in 2020 were followed for three and a half years. Paired plasma samples were collected during hospitalization and at long-term follow-up. Endothelial dysfunction markers included soluble P-selectin, vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2, vascular endothelial growth factor D, and angiopoietin-1. Hemostasis was assessed by prothrombin time. Acute-phase proteins alpha-2-macroglobulin and haptoglobin were measured via immunoassay. Persistent symptoms were documented at follow-up.At three and a half years, persistent symptoms were common: fatigue in sixty-five point 6%, dyspnea in sixty-two point 5%, and concentration difficulties in sixty-five point 6%. Vascular endothelial growth factor D and angiopoietin-1 remained elevated. Alpha-2-macroglobulin stayed high, and prothrombin time was prolonged in a subset of patients.Severe COVID-19 survivors show sustained angiogenic dysregulation and thromboinflammatory imbalance. Elevated vascular endothelial growth factor D and angiopoietin-1 indicate ongoing angiogenic perturbations, while increased alpha-2-macroglobulin and prolonged prothrombin time reflect persistent coagulation disturbances. These biomarkers may help identify long-term vascular alterations in post-COVID-19 syndrome.© 2026. The Author(s).
Platelet-Released Growth Factors (PRGF) are a standardized, cell- and fibrin-free platelet lysate with translational potential for tissue repair. PRGF enhance tissue regeneration, particularly in contexts where angiogenesis is critical for restoring perfusion in chronic and non-healing wounds. Here, we present the first in vitro study demonstrating that PRGF exert pro-angiogenic effects at a working concentration of 10%. The study employs an endothelial cell-based model integrating targeted gene expression analysis, array-based profiling of angiogenesis-related proteins, and functional endothelial tube formation assays. In this setting, screening-level transcriptional and proteomic profiling indicated higher transcript levels of angiogenesis-related genes and increased signals of representative angiogenesis-associated mediators (e.g., Platelet Factor 4, Angiopoietin-1, Angiogenin) following PRGF stimulation. Functional tube formation assays demonstrated significant enhancement of multiple pro-angiogenic parameters in response to PRGF, including number of pieces (P < 0.001), junctions (P < 0.01), and segments (P < 0.05). These findings suggest that 10% PRGF may support angiogenesis and tissue regeneration and provide a foundation for further validation in more complex multicellular systems and in vivo models.© 2026. The Author(s).
Individuals with the Normal Weight Obesity (NWO) phenotype are characterized by excessive body fat despite normal Body Mass Index (BMI), often leading to underestimated cardiovascular risk. The mechanisms linking this specific body composition to early vascular damage remain unclear. The aim of this study was to evaluate endothelial dysfunction biomarkers in young women with NWO, and to identify the main axes of vascular impairment. The study included 176 young women (median age 20) with normal BMI (18.5-24.9 kg/m²). Based on dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA), participants were classified into an NWO group (n = 88; percent body fat (PBF) ≥ 35.8%) and a healthy control group (NW; n = 88). Serum levels of tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPA), von Willebrand factor (vWF), Angiopoietin-1 (Ang-1), Nitric Oxide (NO), and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) were analyzed. Principal Component Analysis (PCA) was employed to identify latent patterns of endothelial function. Women with NWO exhibited significantly higher levels of tPA (1.86 vs. 1.48 ng/ml; p = 0.038), vWF (72.24 vs. 63.62 ng/ml; p = 0.038), and Ang-1 (515.3 vs. 491.63 pg/ml; p = 0.008) compared to controls. PCA identified three principal components explaining 71.68% of the total variance: Coagulation (tPA, vWF), Inflammation/Angiogenesis (hs-CRP, Ang-1), and Vasodilation (NO). Young women with NWO exhibit subclinical endothelial dysfunction, which is characterized primarily by a pro-thrombotic state and disturbed angio-inflammatory balance. These changes occur even before the onset of overt metabolic or cardiovascular disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a debilitating autoimmune disease of the central nervous system (CNS), characterized by demyelination, axonal loss, and neuronal injury. At present, effective treatment options remain limited. Prior research demonstrated the protective effects of a compound that consists of C16 peptide and angiopoietin-1 (C16-Ang-1) in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), a validated animal model of MS. This study aims to investigate the potential synergistic effects of probiotics with C16+Ang-1, and elucidate its underlying mechanisms in mice.C57/BL6 mice were randomly assigned to control, vehicle, probiotics, and C16+Ang-1+probiotics groups. Histological examinations, behavioral tests, and 16S rRNA gene sequencing of fecal samples, were conducted to determine the levels of CNS inflammation, demyelination and axonal loss, neuronal survival, and functional recovery.Compared to the probiotics group, the C16+Ang-1+probiotics group exhibited significant synergistic effects. Specifically, the combined treatment with C16+Ang-1+probiotics had significantly greater effects than probiotics alone in reducing inflammatory severity in the CNS and colon, improving the microenvironment, protecting the gut-blood barrier, and preserving blood-brain barrier integrity. These effects collectively led to the greater amelioration of functional disability in the mouse model of MS. Further mechanistic studies suggested that these effects involved the modulation of the brain-gut axis, and maintenance of gut microbiota homeostasis.These findings demonstrate that the combination of probiotics and C16-Ang-1 acts synergistically to ameliorate MS in mice, resulting in a greater effect. Therefore, this combination therapy warrants further investigation to explore its potential clinical benefits, ultimately improving the care for patients with MS.© 2026 Li et al.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42512278 is a review article
Background/Objectives: Angiogenesis in glioblastoma (GBM) is a multifactorial process, and blood-brain barrier disruption enables the detection of circulating mediators. The clinical relevance of circulating placental growth factor (PlGF) in GBM remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the role of PlGF in GBM and its association with disease characteristics and outcomes. Methods: We conducted a prospective observational study on 54 patients with IDH-wildtype GBM. Plasma samples collected at diagnosis and recurrence were analyzed using a multiplex panel of angiogenesis mediators. Associations with clinical, radiological, molecular, and treatment-related variables were assessed, along with survival outcomes. Statistical analysis was performed with R 4.5.0. Results: At baseline, PlGF correlated with multiple angiogenic mediators, including VEGF, IL-6, angiopoietin-1, EGF, FGF, IL-8, and TNF-α. Higher PlGF levels were associated with radiopathological features of tumor biology, including proliferation markers and the FLAIR/contrast enhancement ratio. In high-risk patients (RPA 3-4; n = 33), low baseline PlGF identified a subgroup with significantly longer overall survival (17.6 vs. 8.5 months; log-rank p = 0.031) and retained a protective association in multivariable models. In the overall cohort, this association was weaker and did not reach statistical significance. Exploratory longitudinal analyses suggested an increase in PlGF at recurrence in selected molecular and treatment-defined subgroups, while no association with bevacizumab exposure was observed. Conclusions: Circulating PlGF may reflect tumor biology in GBM and shows prognostic relevance in high-risk patients, where low baseline levels identify a subgroup with improved survival. These findings support PlGF as a candidate circulating biomarker and warrant validation in larger prospective cohorts.
Gastric cancer is a multifactorial disease characterized by complex interactions among transcriptional regulation, inflammation, metabolic adaptation, and angiogenesis. However, systemic molecular relationships linking these processes remain insufficiently understood. This study aimed to evaluate circulating levels of FOXA2 (Forkhead Box A2), Ang-1 (Angiopoietin-1), ApoE4 (Apolipoprotein E4), PEN-2 (Presenilin Enhancer-2), and NF-κB (Nuclear Factor kappa B) in gastric cancer patients and to explore their potential integrated role in disease biology. Serum samples were obtained from 40 patients with gastric cancer (20 preoperative and 20 postoperative) and 20 healthy controls. Protein levels were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), followed by statistical analysis. Serum levels of FOXA2, ApoE4, PEN-2, and NF-κB were significantly decreased in gastric cancer patients compared with healthy controls, whereas Ang-1 levels were significantly increased. No statistically significant differences were observed between preoperative and postoperative groups. These findings indicate coordinated dysregulation of transcriptional, inflammatory, metabolic, and angiogenic processes in gastric cancer. The identified FOXA2-NF-κB-PEN-2-ApoE4-Ang-1 axis may be considered an integrated circulating molecular profile reflecting tumor host interactions and may provide a potential foundation for future non-invasive biomarker development and translational research. This study proposes systems-level circulating molecular network model rather than isolated biomarker alterations.
Emerging evidence suggests that dysregulated angiogenesis may contribute to the pathogenesis of Behçet's disease (BD). This study primarily aimed to investigate serum angiopoietin-1 (Ang-1) and angiopoietin-2 (Ang-2) levels in Turkish patients with BD and compare them with healthy controls. The secondary aims were to compare angiopoietin levels based on clinical manifestations, disease activity, and medication use and to investigate their correlations with age, disease duration, and inflammatory markers.This cross-sectional study included 56 consecutive patients with BD, diagnosed according to International Study Group criteria, and 56 age- and sex-matched healthy controls. Physical characteristics, clinical manifestations, time since symptom onset, time since diagnosis, medications, erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), and C-reactive protein (CRP) levels were recorded. Serum Ang-1 and Ang-2 levels were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Comparisons between the two groups were analyzed using the Student t-test or Mann-Whitney U test, and correlations were assessed using Pearson or Spearman correlation coefficients, depending on the data distribution.Serum Ang-1 and Ang-2 levels were significantly higher in patients with BD compared to healthy controls (p < 0.001 and p = 0.031, respectively). Patients with genital ulcers had significantly lower serum Ang-1 levels compared to those without (p = 0.029). Additionally, Ang-2 levels showed moderate positive correlations with CRP (r = 0.518, p < 0.001) and ESR (r = 0.459, p < 0.001).The elevated expression of Ang-1 and Ang-2 in Turkish patients with BD supports the growing evidence of their possible roles in BD pathogenesis.© TÜBİTAK.
Youth-onset type 2 diabetes (T2D) is characterized by accelerated β-cell decline and early treatment failure, and there is an urgent need to improve the understanding of molecular drivers of loss of glycemic control (LOGC).To identify multiprotein signatures associated with loss of glycemic control (LOGC) in youth-onset T2D.Longitudinal observational study with a mean follow-up of 10.8 ± 3.8 years using data from the TODAY study, with external validation in three youth cohorts and one adult-onset T2D cohort.Multicenter clinical research study.Participants from the TODAY study (N = 374; age 14 ± 2 years; 37% male), of whom 72% experienced LOGC over 10.8 ± 3.8 years.None.LOGC, defined as HbA1c ≥ 8% for ≥6 months or inability to discontinue insulin after acute metabolic decompensation.Plasma proteomics quantified 7604 aptamers representing 6596 proteins using the SomaScan 7 K platform. Sixty-seven proteins were associated with LOGC after false discovery rate correction and multivariable adjustment. Key proteins included plexin-B2 (HR: 1.46 [95% CI: 1.29-1.66]) and semaphorin-6A (HR: 1.31 [1.18-1.47]), which were also associated with glycemic outcomes in independent youth and adult cohorts. Enrichment analyses implicated pathways related to axon guidance, immune response, inflammation, and metabolism.Novel proteins involved in axon guidance, immune response, inflammation, and metabolism associated with LOGC in youth-onset T2D with proteins demonstrating consistent associations across the lifespan and proteomic platforms.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Endocrine Society. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com. See the journal About page for additional terms.
Semaphorins (SEMAs) comprise a diverse family of membrane-associated proteins whose dysregulation is implicated in various cancers, influencing tumor progression and immune responses. However, the role of SEMAs in colorectal cancer (CRC) remains underexplored. This study demonstrates that Semaphorin 6A (SEMA6A) is downregulated in CRC tissues, with low SEMA6A expression correlating with increased tumor aggressiveness and poor prognosis in CRC patients. Functional assays illustrate that SEMA6A overexpression exerts anti-tumor effects both in vitro and in vivo, while integrated RNA-seq and proteomic analyses identify ISG15 as a key downstream effector negatively regulated by SEMA6A. Mechanistically, SEMA6A inhibits the JAK-STAT3 pathway, leading to decreased ISG15 expression, which in turn abrogates the ISGylation-dependent stabilization of TGF-β1 and promotes its degradation, as confirmed by molecular docking, co-immunoprecipitation, and cycloheximide chase assays. Consequently, in vitro co-culture assays and in vivo experiments reveal that SEMA6A overexpression in tumor cells enhances CD8+ T cell cytotoxicity via blocking the ISG15/TGFβ axis. Bioinformatics analyses indicate that patients with CRC exhibiting high SEMA6A and low ISG15 expression show improved responses to immunotherapy. Importantly, SEMA6A overexpression reshapes the tumor microenvironment, boosts anti-tumor immunity of CD8+ T cells and inhibits immune evasion, thereby potentiating anti-PD-1 immunotherapy in vivo. Collectively, these findings highlight the potential of SEMA6A as a dual therapeutic strategy in CRC: inhibiting cancer progression while enhancing anti-tumor immunity by targeting the ISG15/TGF-β1 axis. Thus, SEMA6A represents both a prognostic indicator and a promising target to improve immunotherapy efficacy and enable personalized treatment strategies in CRC.© 2026. The Author(s).
How endothelial cell-cell junctions integrate cytoskeletal, adhesive, and local signaling networks to maintain vascular barrier integrity remains incompletely defined. Here, we identify junctional cadherin 5-associated protein (JCAD) as a modular scaffold that organizes endothelial tight junction architecture by coupling junctional condensates to actin and RhoA signaling. Genetic deletion of Jcad in mice does not affect baseline vascular permeability but causes inflammation-dependent barrier hyperpermeability. JCAD depletion in primary human endothelial cells disrupts tight junction continuity and increases paracellular permeability. Mechanistically, JCAD localizes to ZO-1-positive tight junctions independently of VE-cadherin, directly binds filamentous actin, and forms dynamic actin-associated condensates at cell-cell contacts. Structure-function analysis reveals separable domains mediating tight junction targeting and actin binding, establishing a bipartite architecture that distinctly coordinates junctional signaling and cytoskeletal coupling. Together, these findings identify JCAD as a cell-cell adhesion scaffold that integrates the phase-separated tight junction plaque with actin and RhoA-dependent mechanics, enabling endothelial barrier adaptation to inflammatory stress.
Lung cancer is a high-mortality-rate malignant tumor. Radiotherapy combined with immunotherapy shows great potential in improving patient survival. This study aims to identify gene sets associated with radiotherapy effectiveness and immune infiltration in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD), construct a prognostic model, and preliminarily evaluate the effectiveness of the key gene TSPAN32 as a predictive diagnostic marker and therapeutic target for LUAD.Genomic datasets from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) were analyzed to develop a 12-gene risk score model. The prognostic value of TSPAN32 was assessed, and its correlation with immune infiltration was examined. In vitro and in vivo experiments were conducted to validate the biological functions of TSPAN32 in LUAD cell lines A549 and H1299.The 12-gene risk score model accurately predicts prognosis and correlates with immune infiltration. TSPAN32, with high weight in the model, can independently predict prognosis and is associated with immune infiltration. TSPAN32 is significantly downregulated in LUAD cells. Its overexpression significantly inhibits the proliferation and migration of A549 and H1299 cells, enhances radiosensitivity, and may exert biological effects through the TSPAN32-PTEN signaling axis.These findings suggest that TSPAN32 could serve as a predictive biomarker for LUAD patients who may benefit from combined radiotherapy and immunotherapy, providing a theoretical basis for optimizing treatment strategies and improving patient prognosis.Copyright © 2026 Huang, Hu, Guo, Xiao, Chen, Huang, Yang, Li, Li, Chen and Huang.
The maintenance of a healthy epithelial-endothelial juxtaposition requires crosstalk within glomerular cellular niches. Here, we sought to understand the spatially anchored regulation and transition of endothelial and mesangial cells from health to injury in DKD.From 132 human kidney samples, an integrated multiomics approach was leveraged to identify cellular niches, cell-cell communication, cell injury trajectories, and regulatory transcription factor networks in glomerular capillary endothelial (EC-GC) and mesangial cells. Data were culled from single nucleus RNA, ATAC-sequencing and four orthogonal spatial transcriptomic technologies for correlation with histopathological and clinical trial data.We identified a cellular niche in diabetic glomeruli enriched in a proliferative endothelial cell subtype (prEC) and altered vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs). Cellular communication within this niche maintained pro-angiogenic signaling with loss of anti-angiogenic factors. We identified a transcription factor network of MEF2C, MEF2A, and TRPS1 which regulated SEMA6A and PLXNA2, a receptor-ligand pair opposing angiogenesis. In silico knockout of the transcription factor network accelerated the transition from healthy EC-GCs toward a degenerative injured endothelial phenotype, with concomitant disruption of EC-GC and prEC expression patterns. Glomeruli enriched in the prEC niche had histologic evidence of neovascularization. MEF2C activity was increased in diabetic glomeruli with nodular mesangial sclerosis. The gene regulatory network (GRN) of MEF2C was dysregulated in EC-GCs of patients with DKD, but sodium glucose transporter-2 inhibitor (SGLT2i) treatment reversed the MEF2C GRN effects of DKD.The MEF2C, MEF2A, and TRPS1 transcription factor network carefully balances the fate of the EC-GC in DKD. When the transcription factor network is "on" or over-expressed in DKD, EC-GCs may progress to a prEC state, while transcription factor suppression leads to cell death. SGLT2i therapy may restore the balance of MEF2C activity.Copyright © 2026 International Society of Nephrology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Semaphorin 6A (SEMA6A) and Plexin A2 (PLXNA2) are interacting transmembrane proteins dually serving as both receptor and ligand. SEMA6A drives forward signaling through Plexin A2 while PLXNA2 drives reverse signaling through SEMA6A. We have shown in zebrafish that forward signaling is essential for proper retinal size and lamination, whereas reverse signaling is necessary for retinal maintenance. To further characterize reverse signaling, we performed mass spectrometry analysis of immunopurified murine SEMA6A co-expressed with ABL, a tyrosine kinase implicated in SEMA6A reverse signaling. ABL induced SEMA6A phosphorylation at three intracellular tyrosines, two of which are conserved across vertebrates. Expression of murine wild-type SEMA6A mRNA, but not a tyrosine-to-phenylalanine mutant at the three sites, rescued reverse signaling retinal defects observed in sema6a morphants.© 2026 Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
Patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) have a two- to fourfold higher risk of myocardial infarction (MI), yet genetic determinants of this excess risk remain incompletely defined. The JCAD (junctional cadherin 5 associated; formerly KIAA1462) locus has been implicated in coronary artery disease through genome-wide association studies, but data in diabetic populations are scarce.To assess whether the rs3739998 polymorphism of JCAD is associated with MI in Slovenian subjects with T2DM and to explore its relationship with coronary disease burden and coronary artery calcium (CAC).We performed a retrospective cross-sectional association study of 1471 Slovenian subjects with T2DM: 387 with prior MI and 1084 without clinical evidence of coronary artery disease. Genotyping for JCAD rs3739998 was performed using a fluorescence-based competitive allele-specific PCR (KASPar). A coronary computed tomographic angiography (CCTA) substudy (n = 146) evaluated the number of diseased coronary arteries, stenosis severity, and CAC score.The GG genotype was more frequently observed in MI cases compared to controls in unadjusted analysis (OR 1.37; p = 0.05) but association was lost with adjustment for confounders (GG vs. CC, aOR 1.63, p = 0.09). The G allele was also more prevalent among cases (OR 1.18; p = 0.05, unadjusted analysis). In the CCTA substudy, no significant associations were observed between rs3739998 and the number of diseased vessels, stenosis grade, or CAC.In a Slovenian T2DM cohort, the JCAD rs3739998 G allele and GG genotype showed a nominal association with prior MI that did not persist after multivariable adjustment. There was no clear relationship with anatomic disease burden or CAC, underscoring the need for replication in larger cohorts and functional studies to clarify the mechanism and clinical utility.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the fourth-leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide. Semaphorin 6A (SEMA6A) is a member of the semaphorin family, and its specific biological function in CRC progression remains unclear. Bioinformatics analysis revealed that SEMA6A expression was downregulated in CRC tissues and that low expression of SEMA6A was associated with a poor prognosis. Compared with those in normal colorectal epithelial cells, SEMA6A expression levels were lower in CRC cell lines. CACO2 and SW48 cells were chosen to construct stable SEMA6A-knockdown and SEMA6A-overexpressing cell lines. SEMA6A knockdown promoted CACO2 proliferation. Conversely, SEMA6A overexpression inhibited the proliferation and promoted the apoptosis of SW48 cells. Transwell and wound healing assays demonstrated that SEMA6A overexpression inhibited the invasion and migration ability of SW48 cells. SEMA6A overexpression might impede CRC cell migration and invasion by inhibiting the epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition, as evidenced by the downregulation of N-cadherin expression and the upregulation of E-cadherin expression in SW48 cells. To further validate the role of SEMA6A in CRC progression in vivo, transplanted tumor and liver metastasis mouse models were constructed in nude mice by injecting stable SEMA6A-overexpressing SW48 cell lines. SEMA6A overexpression inhibited tumor growth in SW48 tumor-bearing mice and the expression of Ki-67 in tumor tissues. In addition, SEMA6A overexpression resulted in a marked decrease in liver metastasis of CRC cells, with decreased numbers of hepatic metastatic nodules and infiltration of cancer cells. In summary, SEMA6A overexpression alleviated CRC progression by inhibiting tumor growth and metastasis both in vivo and in vitro.
The relationship between fatty acids and Alzheimer's Disease (AD) risk has been an area of growing interest but remains insufficiently understood. This study aimed to develop and validate a fatty acid score (FAS) derived from blood fatty acid levels and explore its association with AD risk. We analyzed 148,308 UK Biobank participants (age 37-73; mean 55.96 years) with a mean follow-up of 12.3 years (maximum 16), and 1193 ADNI subjects (age 55-90; mean 73.50 years) with a mean follow-up of 4.2 years (maximum 8). Lasso regression was used to construct the FAS based on UKB, and Cox regression and linear regression was employed to assess the relationships of FAS with AD risk, cognition, hippocampal volume, and/or cerebrospinal fluid markers in both cohorts. Stratified effects by APOE ε4 status were examined. Causal mediation, proteomic, and bioinformatic analyses were performed to reveal potential mechanisms. Higher FAS was associated with increased AD risk in both cohorts (UKB: HR = 1.298, 95% CI 1.183-1.423, P < 0.001; ADNI: HR = 1.413, 95% CI 1.105-1.808, P = 0.006). In UKB, higher FAS was linked to reduced hippocampal volume (P < 0.001), and in ADNI, it was associated with faster hippocampal atrophy (P = 0.002) and cognitive decline (P < 0.001). These associations were stronger in APOE ε4 carriers. Hippocampal volume partly mediated the link between FAS and cognitive decline. Proteomic analyses demonstrated that the protein expression levels of Adhesion G protein-coupled receptor G1 (ADGRG1), Chitinase-3-like protein 1 (CHI3L1), RNA-binding FOX-1 homolog 3 (RBFOX3), and Growth differentiation factor 15 (GDF15) could mediate the effect of FAS on AD risk. The enriched pathways include cytokine activity, neurotrophic signaling, and pathways related to nervous system development. Blood levels of fatty acid could aid in AD prediction, but further research is needed to confirm causality.© 2025. The Author(s).
Regulatory T cells (Tregs) from people (control, type 1 diabetes with and without albuminuria) were profiled for phenotypic and transcriptomic changes. Central memory Tregs were reduced, while Treg EMRA + cells were higher in type 1 diabetes with albuminuria. In silico findings suggest potential interactions between Treg ligand and kidney cell receptor at transcript level.Diabetic kidney disease (DKD) is a common complication of type 1 diabetes (T1D). T1D and some kidney disorders are often associated with abnormalities in regulatory T cells (Tregs). However, it is unknown if Treg subsets and their molecular architecture are altered during the onset and progression of DKD in T1D.We addressed this critical knowledge gap by characterizing changes in Tregs isolated from 31 participants (10 control, 13 with T1D, and eight T1D with albuminuria) using flow cytometry, RNA-sequencing, and microRNA profiling.We identified that the effector and central memory Tregs were significantly different between groups. Similarly, multiple gene transcripts were also significantly different between groups that also overlapped with other publicly available datasets. Machine learning-based data analyses discovered a set of important microRNAs associated with clinical eGFR values. Importantly, our analyses identified two differentially expressed Treg ligand genes (leucine rich repeat containing 4B, transglutaminase-2), which interacted with the receptors on kidney cells (protein tyrosine phosphatase receptor type D/F/S, Adhesion G Protein-Coupled Receptor G1; a.k.a GPR56) in silico , providing potential mechanistic insights into the role of Tregs in DKD progression.Together, our work supports the yet unappreciated role of Tregs in DKD and opens new research avenues to further consolidate their causal relationship.Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. on behalf of the American Society of Nephrology.
To investigate the cardioprotective effects of Wenyang Zhenshuai granules (WYZSG) against doxorubicin (DOX)-induced cardiotoxicity and elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms.Network pharmacology was performed to identify the potential therapeutic targets of WYZSG against doxorubicin (DOX)-induced cardiac injury. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) network construction, hub gene analysis, and molecular docking were conducted to identify key targets and validate the interactions between the major active compounds and core targets. In vivo, a rat model of DOX-induced cardiac injury was established to evaluate the effects of WYZSG on cardiac injury, histopathological changes, apoptosis, and serpin family E member 1 (SERPINE1) expression. The role of SERPINE1 in the protective effects of WYZSG was further validated through SERPINE1 overexpression experiments.A total of 65 bioactive compounds and 1,057 putative targets were identified, with 49 overlapping targets associated with cardiac injury. Network analysis highlighted genistein, L-phenylalanine, daidzein, nobiletin, and isoliquiritigenin as the major active constituents, while SERPINE1 emerged as a central hub gene. Molecular docking confirmed strong binding affinities between these core compounds and SERPINE1. In vivo, WYZSG attenuated DOX-induced cardiac injury, reduced serum creatine kinase-MB (CK-MB) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) levels, alleviated myocardial histopathological damage, inhibited cardiomyocyte apoptosis, and dose-dependently downregulated SERPINE1 expression in DOX-treated rats. Notably, SERPINE1 overexpression partially abolished the cardioprotective effects of WYZSG against DOX-induced cardiac injury.WYZSG protects against DOX-induced cardiac injury by suppressing SERPINE1 expression, providing mechanistic insight into its cardioprotective effects and supporting its potential therapeutic application in DOX-induced cardiac injury.© 2026. The Author(s).
Elevated soluble urokinase plasminogen activator receptor (suPAR) levels are associated with inflammation, immune activation, and major adverse cardiovascular events in coronary artery disease. Encoded by the PLAUR gene, suPAR levels are influenced by the rs4760 genetic variant. Whether proteomics-based suPAR levels predict adverse outcomes in the general population remains unknown.Proteomics-based suPAR levels were measured using the Olink Immunoassay in 33 963 UK Biobank participants without known coronary artery disease. Fine-Gray and Cox proportional hazards models assessed associations between suPAR and major adverse cardiovascular events (primary outcome: cardiovascular mortality, nonfatal myocardial infarction, or stroke), cardiovascular mortality, and all-cause mortality (secondary outcomes), after adjustment for demographic and clinical risk factors, hs-CRP (high-sensitivity C-reactive protein), and the rs4760 variant. Incremental discrimination was evaluated using C-statistics.Participants were aged 56.4 (SD, 8.2) years; 45% were men, and 93.4% were White. Over a median follow-up of 14 years (476 177 person-years), 10.7% experienced major adverse cardiovascular events, 2.6% experienced cardiovascular mortality, and 9.4% experienced all-cause mortality. Each 1-SD increment in proteomics-based suPAR was associated with significantly higher risk of major adverse cardiovascular events (hazard ratio [HR], 3.2 [95% CI, 2.9-4.5]), cardiovascular mortality (HR, 5.9 [95% CI, 5.1-6.9]), and all-cause mortality (HR, 5.0 [95% CI, 4.6-5.5]), independent of clinical risk factors and hs-CRP. Additional adjustment for rs4760 did not attenuate these associations. Proteomics-based suPAR significantly improved discrimination beyond clinical risk factors (C-statistic: 0.719 versus 0.732; P<0.001).Proteomics-based suPAR independently predicts adverse cardiovascular outcomes in the general population, beyond conventional risk factors, hs-CRP, and genetic predisposition to elevated suPAR levels.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42146949 is a review article
We examined gene expression profiles in abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) lesions vs. normal aortas by cDNA microarray and real-time quantitative reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR).Phosphorus (32P)-labeled cDNA from AAA specimens (mean AAA size 6.65 cm) and normal aortas were hybridized with a 588-gene microarray primarily of the cardiovascular system. The results were validated by qRT-PCR.A total of 35 out of the 588 genes were differentially expressed, with either log2 ratio of AAAs/controls ≥1 (upregulated; 20 genes) or ≤-1 (downregulated; 15 genes) in AAA lesions vs. normal aorta, and 25 of these were significantly different (71%). Expression of matrix metalloproteinase 9, TIMP metallopeptidase inhibitor 3, collagen type I α 1 chain (COL1A1), COL6A3, COL15A1, intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM1), ICAM2, decorin, endoglin, apolipoprotein D (APOD), APOE, phospholipid transfer protein, calcium and integrin binding 1 (CIB1), phospholipase A2 group IIA, von Willebrand factor, serpin family B member 6 (SERPINB6), urokinase-type plasminogen activator, H19, C-C motif chemokine ligand 2, and platelet-derived growth factor receptor beta was upregulated in AAA vs. normal aorta. Expression of collagen type IV α 4 chain (COL4A4), COL11A2, gap junction protein α 1 (GJA1), biglycan, integrin subunit α 8, galectin-1, low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 1, acetyl-CoA acyltransferase, serpin family E member 1, melanoma cellular adhesion molecule, sodium channel epithelial 1 subunit beta (SCNN1B), natriuretic peptide receptor 1 (NPR1), superoxide dismutase 3, actinin α 1 (ACTN1) and cardiac phospholamban (PLN) was downregulated.Eleven genes differentially expressed (p≤0.05) in AAA lesions vs. normal aortas were not reported previously: upregulated: COL6A3, COL15A1, ICAM2, APOD, CIB and SERPINB6; downregulated: GJA1, SCNN1B, NPR1, ACTN1 and PLN. Remaining results confirmed previous reports regarding 21 genes differentially expressed in AAA. qRT-PCR results were in general in agreement with microarray results.Copyright © 2026, International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
Intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) is a fatal complication of leukemia; however, mechanisms underlying its development, particularly central nervous system (CNS) involvement and vascular injury, remain unclear.We aimed to investigate the histopathologic features of cerebral vessels in leukemia and the expression of hemostasis-related factors in leukemia cells.We conducted an autopsy-based study including 37 leukemia cases and 20 matched controls. Histopathologic analysis of CNS tissues was performed to evaluate ICH, leukemia cell localization, and vascular injury. Immunohistochemistry was performed to assess expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), cathepsin G, tissue-type plasminogen activator, urokinase-type plasminogen activator, urokinase-type plasminogen activator receptor, and tissue factor in leukemia cells. Vascular integrity was evaluated using stains for smooth muscle actin, collagen, fibrin, and von Willebrand factor.ICH was identified in 68% of leukemia cases and was associated with fatal brain herniation in 40%. CNS involvement was observed in 54% of cases, often without a clinical diagnosis. The leukemia cell infiltration of meninges and vascular walls was frequently associated with changes in smooth muscle cells and adventitial collagen. CNS vascular injury was frequently associated with ICH in the presence of leukemia cell infiltration. VEGF and urokinase-type plasminogen activator were highly expressed in leukemia cells. VEGF was associated with meningeal invasion, while cathepsin G was predominantly expressed in myeloid leukemia and linked to vascular damage.VEGF and cathepsin G may serve as markers of meningeal invasion and cerebral vascular damage in leukemia, respectively.© 2026 The Authors.
Cardiometabolic and inflammatory pathways may play important roles in Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis contributing to neuronal dysfunction even in the absence of cognitive symptoms. Our objective is to characterize proteomic signatures of these pathways in AD.We perform CSF and plasma-targeted proteomics using Olink's highly sensitive proximity extension assay from 354 participants, of which 4.2% had preclinical AD, and 19.5% had prodromal AD. Using data-driven bioinformatic pipeline, we describe proteomic signatures based on various AD traits.The 276 measured proteins cluster into five modules that are associated with AD biomarkers and disease traits. We identify an AD signature in the CSF characterized by elevated levels of Hepatocyte Growth Factor (HGF), Intercellular and Vascular Cell Adhesion Molecules 1 (ICAM-1, VCAM-1), Neuropilin 1 and 2 (NRP-1, NRP-2), Scavenger Receptor Class B Member 2 (SCARB2), and Plasminogen Activator Urokinase (PLAU) that was detectable even in preclinical AD. This signature also predicts clinical disease progression. Independent validation (n = 75) suggests that CSF adhesion molecules showed significant positive correlation with CSF Aβ-42: (R2 ranged: 0.05-0.44) and pTau (R2 ranged: 0.15-0.70).Our results identify a signature centered around CSF vascular adhesion proteins that associates with AD pathology and disease progression, with elevation detectable even in the preclinical stage, warranting further mechanistic investigation.© 2026. The Author(s).
BACKGROUND: BRAF V600E mutation is insufficient for accurate diagnosis of thyroid neoplasms, although it has been widely used in clinical settings. We aimed to construct a messenger RNA (mRNA)-based model to identify thyroid cancer in indeterminate thyroid nodules in the absence of BRAF mutation. METHODS: Our cohort consisted of 88 papillary thyroid cancer (PTC) patients with BRAF V600E substitution, 103 BRAF mutation negative PTC cases, and 96 subjects with benign thyroid nodules. Based on the mRNA levels of MET proto-oncogene, receptor tyrosine kinase (MET), TIMP metallopeptidase inhibitor 1 (TIMP1), transforming growth factor alpha (TGFA), Cbp/p300 interacting transactivator with Glu/Asp rich carboxy-terminal domain 1 (CITED1), and fibronectin 1 (FN1) in thyroid specimens, model building was conducted to develop a gene expression-based classifier to differentiate benign from malignant thyroid nodules. In addition, external validation was performed using the thyroid carcinoma (THCA) dataset from the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). RESULTS: Dataset-based bioinformatic analysis confirmed the elevated expression levels of these five genes in PTC compared to normal thyroid tissue. Overall, the binary classified model correctly identified 84 of 88 BRAF-mutated PTC and 75 of 103 BRAF mutation negative PTC as malignant tumors, respectively. For PTC carrying BRAF V600E mutation, the sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (PPV), negative predictive value (NPV), and area under the curve (AUC) were 0.955, 0.969, 0.966, 0.959 and 0.987, respectively. More importantly, the diagnostic performance of the approach in determining PTC without BRAF mutation was presented as the sensitivity of 0.728, specificity of 0.969, PPV of 0.962, NPV of 0.769, and AUC of 0.871. CONCLUSION: We developed and validated a gene expression classifier to assist in the diagnosis of BRAF V600E-negative PTC cases. This tool is poised to become a useful adjunct to individualized management of thyroid cancer in clinical practice.
Postherpetic neuralgia (PHN) is a persistent neuropathic pain condition resulting from varicella-zoster virus reactivation, yet remains inadequately treated. Here, we elucidate a pathogenic function of Serpin Family E Member 1 (SERPINE1) in neuropathic pain using a resiniferatoxin (RTX)-induced neuropathic pain to simulate PHN. RTX administration triggered sustained mechanical allodynia and thermal hyposensitivity, accompanied by damage in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) and sciatic nerve. Transcriptomic analysis identified SERPINE1 as a prominently upregulated gene in DRG following RTX challenge. Pharmacological inhibition of SERPINE1 with TM5441 alleviated pain-related behaviors in a dose-dependent manner, restored vanilloid 1 (TRPV1)-positive neuronal populations, and mitigated ultrastructural nerve pathology. Mechanistically, SERPINE1 suppression attenuated neuronal apoptosis (lowered caspase‑3) in the DRG. This anti‑apoptotic effect was associated with inhibition of the AKT pathway, evidenced by decreased AKT phosphorylation in both DRG tissues from RTX‑treated rats and RTX‑stimulated SH‑SY5Y cells. Our findings demonstrate that SERPINE1 drives neuropathic pain in the RTX model and highlight its pharmacological inhibition as a promising therapeutic strategy.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Over the last 34 years, the Eilat Conference on New Antiepileptic Drugs and Devices has provided an interactive forum for stakeholders to discuss investigational and recently licensed treatments for seizures and epilepsy. The Eighteenth Eilat Conference on New Antiepileptic Drugs and Devices (EILAT XVIII) took place in Madrid, Spain, on May 3-6, 2026. This article provides summaries of eight treatments in preclinical and early clinical development that were presented at EILAT XVIII. These include AUT00206, a positive allosteric modulator of Kv3.1 and Kv3.2 voltage-gated potassium channels in development for the treatment of rare epilepsy syndromes as well as neurodevelopmental and neuropsychiatric disorders; ION283, an antisense oligonucleotide designed to suppress the expression of glycogen synthase 1, under investigation for the treatment of Lafora disease; MSCA-7136, a selective allosteric RAS/mitogen-activated protein kinase-extracellular signal regulated kinase (MEK) inhibitor being developed for the treatment of focal seizures associated with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy and seizures associated with tuberous sclerosis complex; OV329, a selective inhibitor of γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) aminotransferase, in development for the treatment of drug-resistant focal seizures; PTI5803 (probenecid), an uricosuric agent and a blocker of pannexin 1 channels, repurposed as a treatment for seizures associated with focal cortical dysplasia; simufilam, a filamin A modulator under investigation for the treatment of tuberous sclerosis complex-related epilepsy; SN-2000, a selective allosteric phosphodiesterase 4B inhibitor, in development for the treatment of focal seizures; and sodium selenate, a promoter of the dephosphorylation of pathological hyperphosphorylated tau in the brain, under investigation as a disease-modifying agent in mesial temporal lobe epilepsy. Treatments in more advanced clinical development are discussed in an accompanying article.© 2026 The Author(s). Epilepsia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International League Against Epilepsy.
Spatially confined β-adrenergic receptor-cAMP nanodomain signaling depends on scaffolded protein-protein interactions (PPIs), yet converting such nanointerfaces into cell-active disruptor peptides remains challenging. Here, we identify a previously unrecognized phosphodiesterase 4A (PDE4A)-filamin A complex in human cardiac tissue that is disrupted in dilated cardiomyopathy. To target this interaction, we developed a nanodomain-resolved AlphaFold3 workflow integrating interface-recurrence filtering, orthogonal docking, and peptide-binding site inference to define a tractable binding region. This approach identified a filamin A docking sequence spanning R2520-H2528, which was optimized to RLVSNHSLH and rendered cell-permeant by N-terminal polyarginine tagging. In ventricular cardiomyocytes, the peptide reduced PDE4A-filamin A proximity and selectively attenuated β-adrenergic cAMP signaling in cytosolic and sarcolemmal compartments, measured by FRET biosensors. This work establishes a potential transferable strategy for translating predicted scaffolded PPI nanointerfaces into functional disruptor peptides and highlights compartmentalized signaling complexes as actionable targets for selective cellular modulation.
Neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorders (NMOSDs) comprise rare autoimmune diseases of the CNS in which disabilities accrue with relapses. The ability to predict and prevent relapses could dramatically improve clinical outcomes, potentially reducing morbidity and quality-of-life declines. This proteomic study aimed to identify individual and composite candidate serum biomarkers predictive of NMOSD relapse.Patients with NMOSD previously enrolled in the Collaborative International Research in Clinical and Longitudinal Experience Study (CIRCLES) cohort were selected based on documented relapses simultaneous with retrievable banked cryopreserved serum. Longitudinal serum proteomic profiles were characterized using high-resolution mass spectrometry. We used linear models with logistic regression, Cox proportional hazards models with fixed-time intervals, and time-dependent Cox proportional hazards models to analyze individual proteins and proteomic profiles for their association with future relapses factoring demographics, clinical phenotype/course, and treatments.We characterized a total of 305 longitudinally collected serum samples (N = 126), using high-resolution mass spectrometry, and identified 265 proteins overall. There was a 10-protein signature with the highest average association coefficient consistently across at least 4 of the 6 modeling analyses, including factor XI, surfactant protein B, C1RL, filamin A, cholesteryl ester transfer protein, cathelicidin antimicrobial peptide, C4A, transferrin receptor, for consistency immunoglobulin kappa constant, and serum amyloid A2 protein. This signature could significantly stratify patients with higher vs lower risk of subsequent relapse. These proteins differed in their increasing or decreasing abundance trajectories in advance of relapse. Most belong to pathways plausibly related to the immunopathology of NMOSD.Collectively, these findings provide a basis for novel biomarker development to predict NMOSD relapses sufficiently in advance to enable preventive treatment.
Myxomatous mitral valve disease (MMVD) is a progressive cardiac disease characterized by extracellular matrix remodeling, leaflet thickening, and proteoglycan accumulation. Despite its significant contribution to cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, the underlying pathophysiological mechanisms involved in its development and progression remain unclear. Recent investigations have revealed a genetic component to the disease, such as mutations in the FLNA gene, and suggested potential involvement of immune cells in the pathogenesis of MMVD. In this study, we investigated the role of macrophages in MMVD using a large collection of human non-syndromic MMVD samples and a unique animal model, the Filamin-A knock-in (KI) rat.Transciptomic analysis of 78 human non-syndromic MMVD samples revealed significant enrichment of pathways associated with immune activation and macrophage recruitment. Comparative analyses between human and rat MMVD identified shared molecular signatures, validating the Filamin-A KI rat model for studying human MMVD pathophysiology. Analyses of wild-type (WT) and KI rat MVs demontrated a gradual activation of valvular cells from birth, which translated into phenotypic MV remodeling by postnatal day 7. These early events were associated with the development of a pro-inflammatory valvular environment, despite no initial increase in myeloid cells. The subsequent accumulation of macrophages in the already remodeled MV leaflets indicated the initiation of an active recruitment process, likely involved in the progression of non-syndromic MMVD.This study highlights the central role of chemotaxis and macrophage recruitment and activation in the pathophysiological processes leading to non-syndromic MMVD. Macrophage involvement emerges as a hallmark of non-syndromic MMVD, a disease previously described as non-inflammatory, and opens new avenues to identify potential therapeutic targets to mitigate disease progression.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
The epicardium provides essential cellular and molecular cues required for proper cardiogenesis and cardiac repair. Epicardial-derived cells (EPDCs) play a pivotal role in establishing cardiac structure, contributing to coronary vasculature formation, connective tissue organization, and post-ischemic cardiac remodeling. During EPDC emergence, the epicardium must preserve a precise balance between cellular motility and epithelial integrity. However, the mechanisms determining why some epicardial cells undergo epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition to become EPDCs while others retain an epithelial state remain unclear. We show that miR-200b is expressed in a subset of epicardial cells during embryonic EPDC formation. Gain-and loss-of-function experiments reveal that miR-200b regulates the overall number of EPDCs by modulating the proportion of symmetric and asymmetric cell divisions. RNA pull-down coupled with RNA-seq, together with in vitro and ex vivo functional assays, identified filamin A (FLNA)-a key regulator of spindle positioning during asymmetric division-as a direct miR-200b target in epicardial cells. FLNA loss reduced asymmetric divisions, supporting its role in promoting this division mode. Overall, our study defines a miR-200b-FLNA axis that governs symmetric versus asymmetric division to control epicardial tissue dynamics during cardiogenesis. Additionally, altered miR-200b expression after myocardial infarction in mice and humans suggests a potential role post-MI.© 2026. The Author(s).
A 10-year-old cachectic boy who was delivered at 29 weeks' gestation following an uneventful first pregnancy was diagnosed with laminin subunit alpha-2 (LAMA2)-related (merosin deficient) congenital muscular dystrophy at the age of 5 years. A week before his last hospitalization, he was treated with antibiotics for respiratory infection. A day before his death, he vomited and was visibly irritable. He collapsed during rehabilitation treatment and became unresponsive. He did not sustain any injuries. The patient presented to the hospital with tachycardia, elevated cardiac enzymes, and respiratory insufficiency. Computed tomography of the brain revealed irregular hypodense areas in the supratentorial region and the lungs showed ground glass opacity. He required mechanical ventilation and high doses of vasopressors. The patient died 12 h after admission due to circulatory collapse. Postmortem histologic examination revealed skeletal muscle and myocardial degeneration, and multiorgan fat embolism involving the lungs, heart, kidneys and brain. Death was attributed to cardiovascular collapse due to heart failure associated with a genetically determined muscle disease with unexplained fat embolism syndrome.© 2026. The Author(s).
Filamin A (FLNA) is an actin-binding protein that regulates mechanosensitivity and functions as an intracellular signaling scaffold in various cell types. It has also been implicated in tumor growth. We recently reported FLNA expression in human ovarian granulosa cells and in KGN cells, a granulosa cell tumor (GCT) line.Immunohistochemistry analysis of 51 GCT samples revealed heterogeneous FLNA expression, with approximately 20% showing weak, 18% strong, and the majority moderate expression. We therefore conducted functional studies in KGN cells using CRISPR/Cas9 gene editing. A proteomic approach revealed marked changes in protein abundance upon FLNA depletion: proteins with increased abundance were predominantly related to adhesion, cytoskeletal organization, regulation of cell shape, and lipid metabolic process, whereas those with decreased abundance were associated with DNA replication, cell division, and cell cycle regulation. FLNA-knockout cells showed enlarged cell sizes, reduced proliferation, and slightly affected steroidogenesis. Disruption of FLNA further reduced migration velocity, altered actin cytoskeletal alignment under flow, and modified expression of genes involved in cytoskeletal architecture, adhesion, and mechanosensing under shear stress.Our results identify crucial roles of FLNA in shaping the cellular architecture, motility, and proliferation of KGN cells. Consequently, alterations in FLNA expression may influence intracellular signaling, and responsiveness to mechanical cues in both physiological and pathological contexts.© 2026. The Author(s).
To report foveal hypoplasia and high myopia in siblings who harbored biallelic pathogenic variants in the gene LOXL3 (lysyl oxidase-like 3; biallelic) and highlight LOXL3 as a candidate gene for this phenotype.Retrospective case series.Two siblings, a 12-year-old boy and his 2-year-old sister, had foveal hypoplasia in the setting of high myopia. Whole exome sequencing revealed both to be homozygous for NM_032603.5: LOXL3 (lysyl oxidase-like 3) c.1036C>T; p.Arg346Trp and NM_000315.4: PTH (parathyroid hormone) c.128 G>A; p.Gly43Glu. The LOXL3 variant has previously been associated with Stickler syndrome; however, phenotypic reassessment did not reveal hearing loss, flat facies, palatal or skeletal abnormalities, or the vitreous phenotype of classic Stickler syndrome. The PTH variant was consistent with pseudohypoparathyroidism. The boy had been previously diagnosed with this by an endocrinologist, and phenotypic reassessment confirmed the same diagnosis in his sister.Biallelic LOXL3 pathogenic variants should be considered in the differential diagnosis of foveal hypoplasia with high myopia.
Kawasaki disease (KD) is a leading cause of acquired heart disease in children, with coronary artery lesions (CAL) as its most severe complication. This observational study aimed to investigate the expression of bone marrow stromal cell antigen-1 (BST1) in KD patients and its value for predicting CAL.Serum samples were collected from KD patients before intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) treatment and healthy controls (HC) in Xi'an Children's Hospital from July 2023 to August 2024. KD Patients were stratified into CAL and non-CAL (nCAL) groups based on echocardiography. In the discovery cohort (8 KD-CAL patients, 7 KD-nCAL patients, and 4 HC), Sera were analyzed via four-dimensional data-independent acquisition (4D-DIA) quantitative proteomics. Differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified and analyzed for bioinformatics. In the validation cohort (35 KD-CAL patients, 61 KD-nCAL patients, and 30 HC), serum BST1 was validated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve was constructed to assess the performance of BST1 in predicting CAL.A total of 2575 proteins were identified by 4D-DIA proteomics, with 807 DEPs in nCAL vs HC and 883 DEPs in CAL vs HC. Compared to nCAL, 213 DEPs were identified in CAL patients, among which BST1 was significantly upregulated only in the CAL group. Functional analyses revealed enrichment in innate immune response, cell adhesion, RNA processing pathways, complement and coagulation cascades, extracellular exosomes, and cellular metabolism. ELISA confirmation showed elevated BST1 levels in CAL patients, which positively correlated with Z-scores. ROC analysis demonstrated high prognostic accuracy for CAL (AUC=0.9052).Serum BST1 has the potential to be a predictive biomarker for CAL in KD patients.© 2026 Zhang et al.
The study investigates how sex and age influence treatment response in paediatric, adolescent and young adult (AYA) classical Hodgkin lymphoma (cHL), integrating clinical data, immune-gene profiling and metabolic imaging from the European Network for Paediatric Hodgkin Lymphoma (EuroNet-PHL-C2 trial). cHL patients treated in Italian Association of Pediatric Hematology & Oncology Research (AIEOP) centres (2018-2020) underwent fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) at baseline, after two chemotherapy cycles early response assessment (ERA) and post-chemotherapy (late response assessment, LRA). Responses were classified as early complete metabolic response (CMR) or as adequate response (AR), inadequate (IR) or progressive disease at LRA. Tumour samples were profiled for 730 immune-related genes, and clinical and quantitative positron emission tomography parameters were integrated to assess sex- and age-related patterns. Sixty-eight cases passed quality control. Early CMR occurred in 51.5% at ERA; 29.4% showed (AR) at LRA. Older age (≥13 years), especially in males, was associated with higher IR risk. runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) expression characterized CMR; a five-gene panel (Bone Marrow Stromal Cell Antigen-1/CD157 [BST1]; C-X-C Motif Chemokine Receptor 6 [CXCR6]; Inducible T-cell Co-stimulator/CD278 [ICOS], Ubiquitin Specific Peptidase 9 Y-Linked [USP9Y], and Single Ig IL-1-Related Receptor/IL-1R8 [SIGIRR]) predicted IR and reflected sex-related immune differences. USP9Y expression correlated with baseline tumour volume (total metabolic tumour volume, TMTV1). Combining TMTV1 with RUNX3 improved CMR discrimination, while TMTV1 with the five-gene panel increased sensitivity but reduced accuracy at LRA. Sex and age influence immune response in AYA cHL. RUNX3 and the five-gene panel show promise as biomarkers of early and late response.© 2026 The Author(s). British Journal of Haematology published by British Society for Haematology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most aggressive primary brain tumor, marked by molecular heterogeneity and poor clinical prognosis. Lysyl oxidase-like 3 (LOXL3) is frequently upregulated in GBM, but its mechanistic contribution remains insufficiently defined. Here, we investigated the functional role of LOXL3 in GBM using CRISPR-Cas9-mediated LOXL3 knockdown in two genetically distinct GBM cell lines: U87MG (wild-type TP53) and U251 (mutant TP53). Reduced LOXL3 expression markedly reduced α-tubulin acetylation, particularly in U87MG cells, and downregulated genes involved in cell cycle progression and proliferation. Both cell lines exhibited mitotic defects, including delayed cell cycle progression and spindle abnormalities; however, cell fate diverged according to TP53 status. U87MG cells, sustained spindle checkpoint activation triggered a p53-dependent spindle checkpoint response culminating in apoptosis, while U251 cells underwent mitotic slippage and senescence. Transcriptomic analyses confirmed differential regulation of apoptosis versus senescence pathways in accordance with TP53 functionality. Additionally, reduced LOXL3 expression markedly impaired adhesion and migration in U87MG cells, whereas U251 cells were minimally affected, consistent with more pronounced microtubule destabilization. Collectively, these findings identify that LOXL3 is a key regulator of microtubule homeostasis, mitotic fidelity, adhesion, and invasive behavior in GBM. Targeting LOXL3 may therefore provide a therapeutic opportunity for genotype-informed intervention in GBM.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41250755 is a review article
Lung cancer is one of the most devastating types of cancer, and the treatment of lung cancer has been facing great challenges. Antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs), a new type of targeted therapy, have been widely used in cancer therapy and have opened up a new perspective for the treatment of lung cancer. Here, using a tissue-microarray-based antibody library screening, we identified the FK002 antibody that specifically binds to the tumor cell membrane across various tumor types. We determined that FK002 targets epithelial membrane protein 2 (EMP2), a member of the tetraspanin superfamily of proteins. Subsequently, we developed the EMP2-directed ADC, FK002-exatecan, with a potent DNA topoisomerase I inhibitor (exatecan). In-depth in vitro and in vivo experiments have shown the efficacy and specificity of the EMP2-directed ADC. We validated that the FK002-exatecan ADC effectively eradicated tumors in various lung cancer cell lines and xenograft mouse models, including patient-derived xenograft (PDX) and patient-derived tumor-like cell cluster (PTC) models, as well as xenograft tumors. Mechanistically, FK002-exatecan specifically bound to EMP2 and was internalized into tumor cells, followed by intracellular trafficking to the lysosome and exatecan release, which induced cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. This study identifies EMP2 as a novel molecular target for lung cancer therapy and establishes a foundation for developing ADCs that selectively eradicate lung cancer cells.© 2025. The Author(s).
Epithelial membrane protein 2 (EMP2) plays crucial roles in cell proliferation, migration, and adhesion. Despite its importance, conventional EMP2 RNAi therapy shows limited efficacy in vivo. We therefore developed a novel RNA-delivery system utilizing self-assembling defense peptide-cholesterol conjugates for efficient EMP2-siRNA transfection. The engineered HH2-siEMP2 nanoparticles exhibited optimal size and positive surface charge, conferring excellent serum stability and enhanced cellular uptake in breast cancer cell lines. These nanoparticles effectively silenced EMP2 expression, leading to significant suppression of tumor migration and invasion in both in vitro and in vivo models. Beyond direct anti-tumor effects, the HH2-C conjugate demonstrated immunomodulatory properties by promoting Th1 cell expansion, reducing Th2 cells and immunosuppressive Tregs, and restoring Th17/Treg balance. These findings establish EMP2 as a promising therapeutic target in breast cancer and highlight the potential of HH2-C-based nanoparticles as a dual-function platform combining efficient siRNA delivery with immunostimulatory activity.© 2025 The Authors.
Genetic investigation in Mendelian skin disorders featuring generalized or localized skin scaling and redness, known as the ichthyoses, has revealed novel pathways relevant to epidermal integrity, barrier function, and desquamation. Here, we show that a recurrent de novo missense variant in EMP2 (epithelial membrane protein 2), which encodes a cell surface tetraspan protein in the growth-arrest specific 3 (GAS3)/peripheral myelin protein 22 (PMP22) family, is associated with a Mendelian skin disorder in the progressive symmetric erythrokeratoderma spectrum. The disorder features severely thickened, red, and scaly skin at sites of wound healing or repetitive movement including on the face, genitals, flexural areas, and the palms and soles. EMP2 has previously been shown to directly associate with focal adhesion kinase, which links cell junction forces to signaling pathways relevant to proliferation, migration, and wound healing. Using single-cell spatial transcriptomics in affected tissue, we found ectopic suprabasal activation of signaling pathways downstream of receptor tyrosine kinases including epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), which we confirmed with western blotting in affected cells, supporting a gain-of-function mechanism for mutant EMP2. Remarkably, treatment with erlotinib, an EGFR inhibitor, led to marked clinical improvement underscoring the key role of EMP2 in epidermal differentiation and proliferation.
Bone marrow stromal cell antigen-1 (BST-1)/CD157 and CD38 are ectoenzymes belonging to the mammalian ADP-ribosyl cyclase family. Previous analyses of BST-1-deficient mice (Bst1KO) in a 129×C57BL/6J(B6) mixed background revealed that BST-1 is a positive regulator of humoral immunity. Murine BST-1 has recently been known to be an enteroneuroimmune regulator. To further clarify the functions of the ADP-ribosyl cyclase family in vivo, in this study, we generated CD38 and BST-1 double knockout mice (Cd38Bst1DKO) and compared them with Cd38KO, Bst1KO, and wild-type (WT) mice in B6 backgrounds. Flow cytometry analyses of the spleen revealed a decrease in B cells in Cd38KO mice, an increase in marginal zone (MZ) B cells of Bst1KO, and a decrease in neutrophils in Cd38Bst1DKO mice. Compared with WT mice, Cd38Bst1DKO mice showed decreased basal serum immunoglobulins and antigen-specific antibodies in memory responses to a thymus-dependent antigen. Because BST-1 is selectively expressed on WT MZ B cells responsive to lipopolysaccharide, enhanced antibody production in Bst1KO and increased growth responses of Bst1KO B cells to lipopolysaccharide stimulation suggest a suppressive role for BST-1 in Toll-like receptor 4 signaling in MZ B cells. Additionally, aged Cd38Bst1DKO mice displayed enlarged mesenteric lymph nodes and elongated small intestine; these phenotypes appeared only in Cd38Bst1DKO and not in Cd38KO or Bst1KO mice, indicating a cooperative role of CD38 and BST-1 in intestinal homeostasis regulation. Overall, these findings indicate the involvement of ADP-ribosyl cyclases CD38 and BST-1 in regulating humoral immune responses and small intestine homeostasis.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists.
Bone marrow stromal cell antigen-1 (BST1) expression is elevated in a variety of human diseases, but its relationship with pediatric sepsis is unclear. This study aimed to investigate the expression of BST1 in pediatric sepsis patients and its value for diagnosing pediatric sepsis. Key neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs)-related genes that accurately diagnose pediatric sepsis patients were identified using various machine learning methods, including LASSO, RF, XGBoost, LightGBM, and Boruta algorithms. GSE13904, GSE26378, and GSE26440 datasets were used to examine BST1 expression in pediatric sepsis and to evaluate the suitability of BST1 for the diagnosis of pediatric sepsis using receiver operating characteristic curves. Additionally, the usefulness of diagnostic BST1 for identifying pediatric sepsis in actual clinical samples was evaluated by measuring serum BST1 levels using the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) on 30 normal samples and 35 pediatric sepsis samples. Furthermore, a more thorough analysis of the connection between immune cells and BST1 expression was conducted utilizing the CIBERSORT database. Finally, we used ELISA to quantify myeloperoxidase (MPO)-DNA complex levels to assess the establishment of NETs. Integrating machine learning approaches, we identified BST1 as the most robust NET-associated diagnostic biomarker for pediatric sepsis. Comparative analysis revealed a significant elevation of BST1 expression in septic patients versus healthy controls, with pronounced discriminative capacity in a 65 clinical samples cohort (AUC value = 0.873), outperforming the effects of conventional inflammatory indicators such as procalcitonin (PCT), white blood cell count (WBC), and C-reactive protein (CRP). Lastly, we discovered a substantial correlation between the BST1 level and the MPO-DNA complex level in the serum of pediatric sepsis children. Conclusion: Serum BST1 has the potential to be an effective diagnostic biomarker for pediatric sepsis. What is Known: • Pediatric sepsis is a major cause of morbidity, death, financial burden, and negative effects on health systems throughout the world. What is New: • Serum BST1 has the potential to be an effective diagnostic biomarker for pediatric sepsis.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
It is well established that the early stage of mechanical unloading in both humans and animals is characterized by a decline in the activity of the key cellular energy sensor, AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). This decline triggers signaling pathways that drive myosin phenotype remodeling and muscle atrophy. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the reduction in AMPK activity under these conditions remain poorly understood. We hypothesized that elevated activity of protein kinase D1 (PKD1) could contribute to the decline in AMPK activity during the initial stage of rat hindlimb unloading. The present study demonstrates that the suppression of upregulated PKD1 activity via a specific inhibitor (CRT0066101) during 24-hour unloading results in the restoration of AMPK activity in the rat soleus muscle. Thus, we have shown for the first time the contribution of PKD1 to the regulation of AMPK activity in the mammalian postural muscle during the initial stage of hindlimb unloading.© 2026. Pleiades Publishing, Ltd.
Heat stroke causes life-threatening systemic inflammation and multiorgan injury, but the intracellular mechanisms that sustain inflammatory amplification after heat exposure remain unclear. Here, using heat stroke mouse models, genetic NLRP3 deletion, pharmacological inhibition, myeloid-specific NLRP3 deficiency, macrophage depletion, and heat-stressed macrophage systems, we show that tissue macrophage NLRP3 inflammasome activation is a central driver of interleukin-1β/interleukin-18 release, organ injury, and mortality. Mechanistically, heat stroke enhances phospholipase C delta 4 signaling, promotes diacylglycerol accumulation at trans-Golgi network/Golgi-associated membranes, recruits protein kinase D1, and increases phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase β-dependent phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate production. This lipid remodeling supports NLRP3 recruitment, ASC speck formation, caspase-1 activation, and inflammatory cytokine release. Phospholipase C delta 4 knockdown preferentially suppresses NLRP3 activation induced by heat stroke, but not by canonical stimuli. These findings link heat stroke to membrane lipid remodeling and spatial inflammasome assembly, identifying a potential organ-protective pathway in heat stroke.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a neurodevelopmental condition characterized by social communication deficits, restricted interests, and repetitive behaviors. Emerging evidence links several autism susceptibility genes to the nonsense-mediated decay (NMD) pathway, which maintains the homeostasis of gene transcription and protein translation in the nervous system. However, the role of Suppressor with morphogenetic effect on genitalia 7 (Smg7), an essential NMD factor, in brain function and ASD remains largely unknown. Here, we generated an Emx1-Cre-mediated conditional Smg7 knockout (Smg7cko) mouse model to investigate its neurological consequences. We found that both male and female Smg7cko mice exhibited autism-like behaviors, including impaired social interaction and communication, repetitive behaviors, anxiety-like traits, and learning and memory deficits. These phenotypes were accompanied by neuronal hyperexcitability and increased dendritic spine density in layer II/III pyramidal neurons of the hippocampus and the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). Notably, Smg7 deletion led to pronounced upregulation of Protein Kinase D1 (PKD1) transcripts, an NMD target, in these brain regions. Strikingly, adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated PKD1 knockdown (AAVsh-PKD1) in the hippocampus and mPFC significantly rescued social deficits in Smg7-deficient mice. Together, these findings identify Smg7 as a key regulator of neuronal function and behavior, and reveal PKD1 upregulation as a pathogenic mechanism underlying ASD-like phenotypes, providing new insight into NMD deficiency in ASD pathophysiology and a potential therapeutic target.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Guarantors of Brain. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42186337
There are four FDA-approved poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase inhibitors (PARPi) for treating metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer. However, dose-limiting toxicities may reduce efficacy when treatment is de-escalated. Identifying modulators of PARPi sensitivity could enable combination strategies that enhance efficacy while minimizing toxicity. This study investigates whether Protein kinase D1 (PrKD1), recently discovered to modulate DNA repair, influences sensitivity to PARP inhibition.We used prostate cancer cell lines with altered PrKD1 expression to assess viability following olaparib and/or Compound-10, a selective PrKD1 inhibitor, treatment. Subcellular fractionation, immunoprecipitation, in silico modeling and Western blotting of lysates of cells and tumor samples harvested from patient-derived xenograft tumor engrafted mice treated with Compound-10 were used to evaluate protein expression, interaction, and localization.PrKD1-overexpressing C4-2 cells exhibited significantly increased sensitivity to growth inhibition by olaparib. Downregulation of PrKD1 in LNCaP cells conferred resistance. Biochemical inhibition of PrKD1 by Compound-10 also enhanced sensitivity. Co-immunoprecipitation experiments demonstrated that PrKD1 and PARP1 are present in the same immunocomplex, and PrKD1 transfection in C4-2 cells increased PARP1 membrane localization. Treatment of prostate cancer PDX models with Compound-10 increased PARP1 expression. In silico molecular modeling identified a site adjacent to the PARP1 WGR domain potentially binding to multiple PrKD1 domains.Our study identifies PrKD1 as a novel modulator of sensitivity to olaparib. Co-targeting PrKD1 using small molecular inhibitors may enhance olaparib efficacy at lower doses and improve PARPi tolerability and therapeutic index. The demonstration of PARP1 at the membrane is novel, introducing the possibility of targeting membranous PARP1 for theranostic applications.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Protein kinase D1 (PRKD1) is a serine threonine kinase with roles in the regulation of embryonic development, contractility, vesicle transport and cytoskeleton organization. Consequently, variants in PRKD1 that alter its kinase activity are associated with severe anomalies, manifesting as syndromic congenital defects in patients. To investigate the molecular pathomechanisms underlying PRKD1 genetic variants, the patient-derived PRKD1 p.G592R (c.1774 G > A) mutation was introduced in heterozygous and homozygous configuration into the human induced pluripotent stem cell line (AICS-0031-035:WTC-mTagRFPT-TUBA1B) with CRISPR/Cas9 technology and were thoroughly validated. These hiPSC lines constitute a valuable platform for dissecting the molecular consequences of impaired PRKD1 signaling.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Protein kinase D1 (PRKD1), a serine/threonine kinase of the PKD family, has been implicated in tumor biology, but its role in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains unclear. We explored PRKD1 expression and function using immunohistochemistry, bulk and single-cell RNA sequencing, and in vitro functional assays. PRKD1 protein levels were significantly elevated in 339 HCC tissues compared to corresponding adjacent non-tumorous samples (11.390 ± 1.560 vs. 6.277 ± 2.357, P < 0.0001). Multicenter bulk transcriptomic data confirmed consistent PRKD1 mRNA overexpression (SMD = 0.26, 95% CI = 0.14-0.39), with single-cell transcriptomic profiling indicating specific enrichment in endothelial cells, smooth muscle cells, and hepatocytes. High PRKD1 expression was associated with advanced tumor stages and worse overall survival. Functionally, PRKD1-associated genes were enriched in extracellular matrix and focal adhesion pathways. Immune profiling revealed positive correlations with M2 macrophages, regulatory T cells (Tregs), and myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs), and negative correlations with CD8+ T cells and CD4+ Th1 cells, suggesting an immunosuppressive role. Mechanistic experiments demonstrated that conditioned medium from PRKD1-knockdown HCC cells promoted M1 polarization and reduced M2 markers in THP-1 cells, while PRKD1 silencing increased PD-L1 and IDO1 expression. In contrast, IFN-γ treatment did not induce PRKD1 expression, indicating that PRKD1 actively contributes to, rather than responds to, immunosuppressive cues. PRKD1 knockdown markedly impaired HCC cell proliferation and migration. Pharmacologically, nitidine chloride significantly reduced PRKD1 expression in a dose-dependent manner, and molecular docking suggested a potential direct interaction. With respect to drug response, PRKD1-high HCC cases exhibited increased predicted sensitivity to multiple tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), while in vitro PRKD1 knockdown reduced sorafenib sensitivity, and sorafenib treatment suppressed both PRKD1 and p-ERK1/2 levels. Collectively, our findings identify PRKD1 as a multifaceted contributor to HCC progression, immune microenvironment modulation, and TKI responsiveness. These results highlight PRKD1 as a promising therapeutic target warranting further mechanistic and translational investigation.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Compromise in trabecular meshwork (TM) function due to extracellular matrix (ECM) accumulation contributes to increased intraocular pressure (IOP) in primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). Our previous study demonstrated the role of cathepsin K (CTSK), a potent collagenase, on ECM homeostasis, actin bundling in TM, and IOP regulation. This study was designed to understand the response of TM cells to the loss of CTSK function.Normal primary human TM (HTM) cells transfected with either small interfering RNA (siRNA) against CTSK (siCTSK) or scrambled siRNA (siScr) as a control were screened using mass spectrometry-based quantitative proteomics for changes in protein levels. Immunofluorescence imaging was used to identify changes in the distribution of differentially expressed proteins. Flow cytometry analysis provided evidence for the cell death mechanism resulting from the loss of CTSK function. Biochemical analysis was performed to quantify filamentous actin, assess BMP1 activity, and measure calcium levels.CTSK loss significantly disrupted collagen biogenesis and ECM remodeling and increased intracellular calcium levels and the expression of calcium-regulatory proteins. Actin polymerization was increased due to protein kinase D1 (PRKD1) activation through the slingshot phosphatase 1 (SSH1)/cofilin pathway, promoting focal adhesion maturation. Despite increased apoptotic markers (CASP3, CASP7, TRADD, PPM1F), caspase-3/-7 activation was not induced, suggesting apoptosis-independent cellular remodeling. Notably, RhoQ and myosin motor proteins were significantly downregulated, indicating altered mechanotransduction.Our findings underscore the multifaceted role of CTSK in maintaining critical cellular processes within the TM. Specifically, we have shown that CTSK is closely involved in regulating ECM homeostasis, influencing calcium signaling, and governing cytoskeletal dynamics and TM cellularity.
Cardiac hypertrophy is an important risk factor for heart failure and is often accompanied by contractile dysfunction. While hypertrophic growth contributes to disease progression, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain incompletely understood. A proposed contributor is a metabolic shift toward glucose uptake, suggesting that kinases regulating this process, such as protein kinase D1 (PKD1) and downstream target phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase IIIβ (PI4KIIIβ), might be effective targets to mitigate cardiac hypertrophy-induced contractile dysfunction. We investigated whether PI4KIIIβ inhibition downregulates enhanced glucose uptake in hypertrophic cardiomyocytes and thereby treats cardiac hypertrophy-induced contractile dysfunction. Hypertrophy was induced in cultured adult rat cardiomyocytes and human stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes using either phenylephrine (PE) or adenoviral PKD1 overexpression. PE-induced hypertrophy was associated with increased mRNA expression of BNP, activation of hypertrophic signaling, morphological alterations, enhanced protein synthesis and glucose uptake, and impaired contractile function. Treatment with the PI4KIIIβ inhibitor MI14 prevented and reversed PE-stimulated glucose uptake and contractile dysfunction, while hypertrophic signaling, cell size, and protein synthesis remained unaffected. Similar effects on glucose uptake were observed in the PKD1 overexpression model. These findings suggest that targeting myocardial substrate metabolism via the PI4KIIIβ pathway, rather than hypertrophic growth itself, could be a promising strategy to treat hypertrophy-induced contractile dysfunction.
The Polycomb group (PcG) protein chromobox 8 (CBX8) is the subunit of Polycomb repressive complex 1 (PRC1) and recognizes the trimethylation of histone H3 on Lysine 27 (H3K27me3), and coordinates with PRC2 complex to function as an epigenetic gene silencer. CBX8 plays a key role in cell proliferation, stem cell biology, cell senescence, and cancer development. However, the post-translational modifications of CBX8 remain poorly understood. Here, we report that protein kinase D1 (PKD1) interacts and phosphorylates CBX8 at Thr234 and Ser256 /311 residues. PKD1-mediated CBX8 phosphorylation at Thr234 reduced its expression level by promoting its ubiquitination-mediated degradation, whereas Ser256/311 phosphorylation decreased CBX8 binding to other PRC1 components BMI1 and RING1A. Overall, CBX8 phosphorylation by PKD1 impaired PRC1 complex integrity and activity, mitigated H2AK119ub1 level, caused the upregulation of multiple target genes repressed by CBX8, and decreased CBX8, H2AK119ub1, and H3K27me3 enrichment at INK4A/ARF locus, thereby derepressing p16INK4A and facilitating cellular senescence. Collectively, these results suggest that PKD1-mediated CBX8 phosphorylation at T234 and S256/311 is a key mechanism governing CBX8 function, including cell senescence.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
