The apolipoprotein E ε4 (APOE ε4) allele confers the greatest genetic risk for sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD).To identify APOE ε4-associated metabolic factors related to AD risk and to provide preliminary insights into their biological and nutritional context.We leveraged multi-omics analyses across two independent cohorts to characterize biomarkers associated with AD. The effects of metabolite × APOE ε4 interactions were tested on incident AD and the ε4-specific metabolic signatures were pinpointed. Multimodal analyses were used to test the underlying mechanisms, including neuroimaging, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), and PET biomarkers within the A/T/N framework, as well as plasma proteomics combined with bioinformatics enrichment analyses.Across both cohorts, valine emerged as the only metabolite associated with a reduced risk of incident AD specifically among APOE ε4 carriers (P < 0.005). Significant interaction effects between valine and APOE ε4 were detected in both cohorts (P for meta-analyses < 0.005). Higher levels of valine were associated with greater total white matter and posterior cingulate cortex volumes, as well as with lower levels of CSF tau proteins. Higher valine levels also predicted a slower decline in FDG-PET metabolism. No association was found between valine and Aβ. Mediation analyses of plasma proteomic data suggested statistically significant mediation effects involving GFAP, NEFL, and APOE (P < 2 × 10-16).Valine is a metabolite associated with lower AD risk in APOE ε4 carriers, with potential associations with tau pathology, neurodegeneration, and neuroinflammation-related processes. As this was an observational study, causality cannot be inferred.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Low-carbohydrate and low-fat diets (LCDs and LFDs) are promoted for cardiometabolic prevention.This study examined associations of LCDs and LFDs with incident dementia and evaluated modification by genetic susceptibility.We included 5301 dementia-free adults aged ≥55 years from the Health and Retirement Study. Overall LCD and LFD indices were constructed based on macronutrient composition rankings assessed using a food frequency questionnaire in 2013-2014. Plant-based, animal-based, healthy, and unhealthy sub-scores were derived to characterize macronutrient sources and quality. Incident dementia was defined using the Langa-Weir algorithm through 2022. Genetic susceptibility was assessed using APOE genotype and Alzheimer disease polygenic risk score (AD-PRS). Cox models estimated hazard ratios (HRs).During the 9-year follow-up, 506 participants developed dementia. Greater LCD score was associated with lower dementia risk (HR per SD increment 0.90, 95% CI, 0.82, 0.99), whereas an overall LFD was not (1.05, 95% CI, 0.96, 1.15). Plant-based and healthy LCDs showed stronger inverse associations (0.85, 95% CI, 0.78, 0.94 and 0.82, 95% CI, 0.74, 0.90), while higher animal-based (1.10; 95% CI, 1.00, 1.20) and unhealthy LFDs (1.13; 95% CI, 1.04, 1.24) were linked to higher dementia risk. Associations were consistent across APOE genotype and AD-PRS strata. Higher plant-based and healthy LCDs were also associated with better global and domain-specific cognitive performance.Adherence to LCDs, particularly plant-based and higher-quality LCDs, was associated with lower dementia risk, consistently across genetic susceptibility strata. These findings underscored the importance of macronutrient quality, in addition to quantity, in promoting cognitive health.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Tumor immune barriers (TIBs) are spatially organized stromal-immune niches that restrict lymphocyte entry. To explain persistent immune-checkpoint blockade (ICB) resistance in clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC), we mapped TIBs and defined a peritumoral variant built from POSTN+ cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) interlaced with APOE+ tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs). This niche excluded CD8+ T cells from tumor cores, and was enriched in poor-prognosis, ICB-refractory patients. Spatial transcriptomics and single-cell profiling showed TIB regions enriched for extracellular-matrix remodeling, immunosuppressive ligand-receptor circuits, and metabolic reprogramming. Mechanistically, tumor-derived TGF-β1 activated CAFs via SMAD signaling, inducing POSTN and recruiting APOE+TAMs through integrin and chemokine axes. TAMs secreted TGF-β1 and VEGFA, amplifying stromal programs and sustaining exclusion. Blocking POSTN reprogrammed macrophages, reduced matrix-mediated suppression, and restored CD8+ infiltration. In vivo, POSTN inhibition combined with ICB boosted antitumor immunity, reduced tumor burden, and reversed immunosuppressive infiltration, nominating POSTN-directed strategies to potentiate ICB.
Neuroimaging with [18F]FDG PET can support the diagnosis of Dementia with Lewy Bodies (DLB), but it remains unclear how genetic factors influence metabolic phenotypes.To determine whether GBA1 and APOE ε4 status are associated with diverging [18F]FDG PET metabolic patterns in DLB.We analyzed [18F]FDG PET scans from 43 patients with DLB stratified by GBA1 and APOE ε4 status, and 35 from healthy subjects. Analyses included the cingulate island sign (CIS), regions of interest, SSM/PCA disease patterns, and a machine learning multi-class model. We evaluated the similarity of the DLB patient scans in our cohort with respect to typical DLB, Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD)-like patterns.APOE ε4 status mainly influenced the CIS, with APOE ε4-negative patients showing greater preservation of the DLB-typical CIS pattern (p = 0.03) compared to APOE ε4 carriers. In contrast, GBA1 status influenced global metabolic phenotype. GBA1 carriers showed a more homogeneous PD/DLB-like metabolic pattern in the machine learning model (p = 0.003) compared to GBA1 non-carriers, whereas the latter group demonstrated greater heterogeneity and higher expression of the AD-related metabolic pattern (p = 0.004). These effects were observed along a metabolic spectrum rather than as distinct clusters.APOE ε4 and GBA1 modulate distinct aspects of the metabolic phenotype in DLB. GBA1 non-carriers and APOE ε4 carriers showed a higher rate of atypical metabolic signatures, which may contribute to biological heterogeneity and increase the risk of diagnostic misclassification.© 2026. The Author(s).
ABBV-916, an anti-amyloid immunotherapy, was evaluated in patients with early Alzheimer's disease (AD).This phase 1b/2, double-blind, placebo-controlled study consisted of two stages: multiple ascending dose (Stage A) and dose expansion (Stage B). In Stage A, patients were randomized to one of six planned cohorts to receive intravenous ABBV-916 (10 mg to 3000 mg) or placebo monthly through week 24. Assessments included amyloid PET, blood-based biomarkers, pharmacokinetics (PK), and safety. Dose selection for Stage B was to be based on results from Stage A.One hundred six patients were randomized to ABBV-916 or placebo. The 3000 mg dose was reduced to 2000 mg and subsequently to 900 mg after safety review. Dose-proportional PK were observed, and amyloid reduction was observed over 24 weeks at doses ≥300 mg. Most adverse events were non-serious amyloid-related imaging abnormalities. The program ended before dose expansion due to business considerations.Amyloid clearance rate and safety of ABBV-916 were generally comparable to approved anti-amyloid AD therapies.NCT05291234.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42564156 is a review article
Vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) are essential for maintaining vascular tone and participate in all stages of atherosclerosis. The transition of VSMCs into macrophage-like cells is a major source of plaque foam cells. Nevertheless, the mechanisms regulating this phenotypic transition remain elusive. RNA Binding Motif Protein 47 (RBM47) expression was increased by more than twofold in aortas of ApoE-/- mice and was markedly elevated in RBM47+α-SMA+ double-positive cells within atherosclerotic plaques. RBM47 knockdown significantly reduced plaque burden and vascular inflammation, and suppressed VSMC-to-macrophage-like transition. In POV-PC-treated VSMCs, RBM47 knockdown inhibited VSMC proliferation, migration, inflammation, and macrophage-like transition. Mechanistically, RBM47 was found to directly bind to two specific sequences within the 3'UTR of GALNT4 mRNA and enhance its stability. Functional rescue experiments confirmed that GALNT4 mediated the effects of RBM47 on VSMC-to-macrophage-like transition. These findings suggest that RBM47 contributes to atherosclerosis by stabilizing GALNT4 mRNA and promoting VSMC-to-macrophage-like transition.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
About one third of amyloid positive, cognitively normal individuals develop mild cognitive impairment or clinical Alzheimer dementia (AD) over 5 years of follow-up. Sensitive cognitive measures, in addition to biomarkers of amyloid pathology, add to the efficiency of secondary prevention trials by identifying cognitively normal individuals at greatest risk of clinical progression. The Stages of Objective Memory Impairment (SOMI) system, based on the picture version of the Free and Cued Selective Reminding Test with immediate recall (pFCSRT+IR), predicted clinical progression in two observational studies.Our objective was to extend SOMI's findings to clinical trials using participants from the Anti-Amyloid Treatment in Asymptomatic Alzheimer's(A4) study.Eligible participants were cognitively normal, had a Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR) =0, an elevated amyloid level, the pFCSRT+IR, pTau217, and longitudinal data on the CDR. Cox proportional hazards model was used to assess the association of baseline SOMI stage for clinical progression defined by time to the first of 2 consecutive CDRs > 0 or CDR>0 at last assessment. The sample was censored at 4.5 years of follow-up.Of the 911 eligible participants, mean age was 72 years, 59% were female, 62% were APOE ε4 carriers, and 37% progressed over 4.5 years. Hazard ratios (HR) for progression were estimated with follow-up time as the timescale and the SOMI 0 group as the reference. The HRs for progression across SOMI stage increased from 1.48(1.15-1.92 p=.003) for SOMI-1, to 1.83 (1.32-2.54, p ≤ 0.001) for SOMI-2, and to 3.04 (1.97-4.68, p ≤ 0.001) for SOMI 3/4. SOMI remained an independent and significant predictor when pTau217 was added to the model.SOMI's risk profile in A4 was similar to prior findings in observational cohorts. SOMI provides a low-cost, non-invasive enrichment tool for identifying individuals at risk for early cognitive decline in secondary prevention trials.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.
The apolipoprotein E (APOE) +4 allele is a major genetic risk factor for mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and is associated with hippocampal dysfunction. However, its effects on hippocampal subregional functional connectivity (FC) and clinical manifestations in MCI patients with subsyndromal depression (MCID) remain unclear.In this study, 88 patients with MCID were stratified into APOE+4 homozygotes (n = 12), heterozygotes (n = 31), and non-carriers (n = 45). Resting-state FC of the dorsal (dHIP) and ventral hippocampus (vHIP) was examined. Mediation analyses were conducted to investigate the effect of neurological biomarkers on APOE +4 gene dose, depressive symptoms with cognitive function in MCID.Compared with non-carriers, APOE +4 homozygotes showed decreased FC between the left vHIP and the left inferior temporal gyrus and right precentral gyrus, while heterozygotes showed decreased FC between the left vHIP and the right middle frontal gyrus and left cerebellum. In addition, APOE +4 homozygotes exhibited a gene dose-dependent reduction in FC between the vHIP and the left postcentral gyrus (PoCG) compared with heterozygotes. Importantly, vHIP-PoCG FC mediated the relationship between depressive symptoms and cognitive impairment, and between APOE +4 gene dose and cognitive impairment in MCID patients.These findings suggest that reduced vHIP-PoCG FC may represent a candidate neuroimaging correlate in MCID and may underlie APOE +4-related vulnerability to depressive and cognitive symptoms. Moreover, the mediating effect of vHIP-PoCG FC may partly account for the association among APOE +4 gene dose, depressive symptoms, and cognitive impairment in MCID.Copyright © 2026 Du, Li, Wen, Du and Jiang.
TRPC6 channels are expressed in endothelial cells, smooth muscle cells, and macrophages within the atherosclerotic segments of conduit blood vessels. Genetic or pharmacological inactivation of TRPC6 was variably associated with the development of atherosclerosis, a risk factor for myocardial infarction, ischemic stroke, and/or peripheral vascular disease.We used two genetically matched mouse strains, ApoE-/-;TRPC6-/- and ApoE-/-;TRPC6+/+, and investigated how genetic ablation of TRPC6 affects age-dependent progression of atherosclerosis in ApoE-/- mice. Aortas were isolated from the mice and subjected to histopathological investigation.We assessed atherosclerotic lesion progression in mouse aortas by measuring their area, fibrous cap thickness, and calcification. We found that one-year-old mature mice had similar aortic atherosclerosis. However, aged 1.5-year-old ApoE-/-;TRPC6-/- mice exhibited significantly greater atherosclerosis than ApoE-/-;TRPC6+/+ mice. Averaged fibrous cap thickness was also larger in atherosclerotic lesions from ApoE-/-;TRPC6-/- mice compared to ApoE-/-;TRPC6+/+ mice, whereas calcification was not different between the two mouse strains at any age.Age-dependent, spontaneous atherosclerosis progression was greater in aged but not mature ApoE-/-;TRPC6-/- mice compared to ApoE-/-;TRPC6+/+ mice. Thus, genetic ablation or chronic inhibition of TRPC6 may facilitate the development of spontaneous atherosclerosis in aged ApoE-/- mice.Copyright © 2026 Demaree, Munjuluri, Boyapalli, Beaty, Wilkerson, Sakthi Velavan, White and Obukhov.
Infection with Pseudorabies virus (PRV) triggers a state of oxidative distress in host cells, which consequently results in cellular damage. Although the normal butanol fraction of flavonoids derived from Polygonum hydropiper L. (FNB) is recognized for its strong antioxidant properties, it remains unclear whether FNB can mitigate PRV-induced oxidative damage and whether this protective effect involves long non-coding RNA (lncRNA)-mediated regulation during PRV infection. This study aimed to investigate the protective effect of FNB against oxidative stress in PRV-infected porcine alveolar macrophage cell line (3D4/2) and to elucidate the associated lncRNA regulatory network. The safe concentration of FNB was determined using the CCK-8 assay, and oxidative stress-related parameters were measured using commercial kits. The expression levels of key factors in oxidative stress signaling pathways were analyzed by qRT-PCR and Western blotting. Furthermore, transcriptome sequencing was performed to identify differentially expressed mRNAs and lncRNAs, followed by Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses to construct a lncRNA-mRNA interaction network. The results showed that treatment with 50 μg/mL FNB for 12 h significantly restored the PRV-suppressed activity of catalase (CAT) (p<0.05), whereas treatment with 12.5 μg/mL FNB for 12 h markedly increased the activities of glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) and heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) in PRV-infected cells (p<0.01). At the molecular level, treatment with 50 μg/mL FNB for 12 h significantly increased the mRNA and protein expression levels of HO-1 and NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1) (p<0.01). Transcriptomic analysis identified 6,948 differentially expressed messenger RNAs (mRNAs) after PRV infection and 4,400 differentially expressed mRNAs after FNB intervention compared with the PRV group, with these genes being mainly enriched in oxidative stress-related processes. By screening for key antioxidant-related mRNAs and their potentially interacting lncRNAs, a lncRNA-mRNA network was constructed. In conclusion, FNB may alleviate PRV infection-induced oxidative damage by activating the Nrf2/HO-1 signaling pathway and modulating specific lncRNA-mRNA networks. This study provides novel insights into the antioxidant effect of FNB against PRV infection-induced oxidative damage and the regulatory role of lncRNAs.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Long-term excessive fluoride intake accumulates in brain tissue, causing neuronal degeneration and nervous system dysfunction. This mechanism is closely related to elevated oxidative stress. α-Synuclein (α-Syn) is expressed in neuronal presynaptic terminals; under environmental toxin exposure or oxidative stress, its expression changes and it misfolds into oligomers and aggregates that are cytotoxic and induce oxidative cellular damage. Meanwhile, the nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2)-NAD(P)H: quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1)/heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) pathway is an important cellular system for regulating oxidative damage, and its core kinase is mainly expressed in brain astrocytes.The aim of this study is to investigate the effects of fluoride exposure on oxidative stress levels in astrocytes and the expression of α-Syn within the Nrf2-NQO1/HO-1 pathway. Primary astrocytes were treated with extracellular α-synuclein pre-formed fibrils (αSP) in conjunction with fluoride exposure. The results demonstrated that fluoride exposure induced reactive activation of primary astrocytes, increased levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS), decreased activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT), and up-regulated the protein expression within the Nrf2-NQO1/HO-1 pathway. αSP caused oxidative stress in primary astrocytes and exacerbated oxidative damage induced by fluoride exposure. These findings are significant for enhancing the understanding of the mechanisms underlying brain injury associated with chronic fluorosis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Considering the shared physiological mechanisms between Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD), it is plausible that certain compounds may exert therapeutic effects on both neurological disorders. This study aimed to employ in silico techniques to investigate the pharmacological mechanisms of huperzine A (HA) as an alternative treatment for PD and AD.Molecular targets of HA and genes associated with AD and PD were identified from public databases. Gene Ontology analysis, metabolic pathway analysis, and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network construction were performed to identify shared molecular targets. Molecular docking was performed to assess HA affinity for hub proteins and to compare it with that of drugs used to treat AD and PD.The results suggested that HA interacts with 77 molecular targets common to both diseases. Enrichment analysis revealed that proteins from these targets were involved in biological functions, such as serotonin and amine binding. Hub proteins (SRC, TP53, AKT1, and CASP3) were identified from the PPI network. Furthermore, molecular docking simulations showed favorable binding of HA to the hub proteins and adequate binding to the targets of standard drugs (MAOB and ACHE). On the other hand, molecular dynamics analyses were performed to compare the binding characteristics of HA with those of the control targets.HA may modulate SRC, CASP3, and AKT1, suggesting a pleiotropic mechanism underlying the association between AD and PD. These computational findings provide a rational basis for experimental validation by modulating signaling pathways implicated in inflammatory processes and inhibiting enzymes involved in neurotransmitter degradation.This study contributes to the understanding of the neuroprotective activity of HA in AD and PD. However, further in vitro and in vivo investigations are required to confirm the dual therapeutic potential of HA in the treatment of AD and PD.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Sickle cell disease (SCD) is a type of inherited disorder of hemoglobin characterized by recurring vaso-occlusive pain crises that affect many organ systems. Although it is uncommon, involvement of the orofacial region, such as the mandible area and jaw, can lead to a mandibular osteomyelitis, which can cause serious morbidity and diagnostic uncertainty. We describe a 17-year-old male Saudi patient with SCD who initially complained of bodily ache before developing fever, facial swelling, frontoparietal head swelling, and elevated inflammatory markers. The image resembled an odontogenic abscess along with frontoparietal head collection. However, the patient's clinical history, painful crises, elevated inflammatory markers, and high Hb S% along with further radiological study were all compatible with a mandibular osteomyelitis along with acute soft head syndrome. Vigorous supportive care with exchange transfusions to lower Hb S%, antibiotic support, and multidisciplinary consultation was all part of the management. The patient was steadily getting better, and after 1 month from starting management, all of the facial and head swelling had completely disappeared. In conclusion, this case highlights the presentation of two uncommon SCD manifestations: mandibular osteomyelitis and acute soft head syndrome in young SCD patient. Additionally, it demonstrated how crucial it is to keep mandibular crisis (osteomyelitis) as a differential diagnosis for orofacial pain in SCD patients and how lowering Hb S% is important for treating such instances.Copyright 2026 Authors.
Herein, a dual-channel electrochemical method is proposed to simultaneously detect monoamine oxidase B and acetylcholinesterase without cross-talk.
The ability to tightly regulate and maintain a warm core body temperature (Tb) is a defining characteristic of homeotherms. Moving to a thermally preferred place is an energetically efficient first-line thermoregulatory mechanism. We optimized a mouse binary thermal preference assay, selecting floor plate temperatures of 38°C vs 25°C for males and 39°C vs 30°C for females as having no baseline preference. Warm preference was increased in females, by fasting, and with age. Genetic manipulations that increased warm preference included ablation of uncoupling protein 1 (Ucp1) or of all four adenosine receptors (Adora1, Adora2a, Adora2b, Adora3). Ablation of estrogen receptor α (Esr1) reduced the preference for the warmer side in females but had no effect on preference in males. Mice treated with the β3 adrenergic receptor agonist CL-316243 or the adenosine receptor 3 agonist MRS5698 sought the cooler surface. Thermal preference assays complement the measurement of Tb, providing information about whether a change in Tb reflects a new target or setpoint Tb caused by the intervention, or if the mouse is trying to maintain an unchanged Tb. Thermal preference can be more sensitive than baseline Tb for detecting changes in thermal physiology.
The present study reports the isolation and characterization of secondary metabolites from the methanolic extract of Knema malayana leaves, including five polymethoxylated flavones 3',4',5,7-tetramethoxyflavone (1), 3',4',5',5,7-pentamethoxyflavone (2), 4'-hydroxy-3',5',5,7-tetramethoxyflavone (3), 3-hydroxy-3',4',5',5,7-pentamethoxyflavone (4), and 3,3',5',5,7-pentamethoxyflavone (5). Structural elucidation was performed using 1D and 2D nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR), IR, MS, and, in the case of compound (2), single-crystal X-ray diffraction. The isolated compounds were evaluated for their inhibitory activity against acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and 5-lipoxygenase (5-LOX). Among them, compound (2) exhibited the most notable dual inhibitory activity, with IC50 values of 10.2 μM (AChE) and 12.6 μM (5-LOX). Molecular docking supported these findings, with binding affinities of -10.5 kcal/mol (AChE) and -7.2 kcal/mol (5-LOX), revealing key hydrogen bonds and π-cation interactions within active site residues. Other flavonoids, particularly compounds (1) and (5), also displayed notable binding profiles. In silico absorption, distribution, metabolism, excretion, and toxicity (ADMET) evaluation using the Toxometris.ai platform indicated favorable drug-likeness and safety profiles, including non-mutagenic and non-cardiotoxic predictions, along with acceptable pharmacokinetic properties such as aqueous solubility, Caco-2 permeability, plasma protein binding, and microsomal stability. These findings were further supported by promising physicochemical and medicinal chemistry properties, including quantitative estimate of drug-likeness (QED) scores ranging from 0.65 to 0.75 and the absence of pan-assay interference compounds (PAINS) alerts, among other parameters. This study highlights the therapeutic relevance of K. malayana polymethoxylated flavones as promising dual-target AChE and LOX inhibitor with favorable safety and pharmacokinetic properties, supporting their potential development for neuroinflammatory disorders.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
Polyethylene microplastics (PE-MPs) are widespread in freshwater, and their toxicity may vary among particle-size groups; however, mass-equivalent groups also differ in particle-number concentration. This study compared biomarker responses in Far Eastern catfish, Silurus asotus, exposed to small (S-MPs; nominally 34 μm) and large (L-MPs; nominally 125 μm) PE-MPs at 0-1,600 mg/L for 5 or 10 days. Levels of heat shock protein 90 (HSP90), cortisol, lysozyme, immunoglobulin M (IgM), and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) were measured in gill, intestine, and liver. Exposure to PE-MPs generally increased HSP90 and cortisol levels and reduced lysozyme, IgM, and AChE levels. S-MPs treatments generally elicited significant responses at lower nominal mass concentrations than L-MPs treatments and showed descriptively higher integrated biomarker response version 2 (IBRv2) values at all concentrations. Principal component analysis (PCA) showed discernible but partially overlapping distributions of the two groups. Permutational multivariate analysis of variance (PERMANOVA) identified concentration as the dominant source of variation in the biomarker profile (R2 = 64.0%), with effects of particle-size group (R2 = 6.1%), exposure duration (R2 = 3.3%), and the particle-size group × concentration interaction (R2 = 4.9%). At equal nominal mass concentrations, S-MP treatments were estimated to contain approximately 17 times as many particles as L-MP treatments, and measured size distributions partially overlapped. Thus, responses should be interpreted as particle-size-group-associated under mass-equivalent conditions rather than attributable solely to particle diameter. Because the tested concentrations substantially exceeded reported freshwater abundances, this study provides short-term, high-concentration hazard-characterization data rather than evidence of effects at current environmental exposure levels.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
The pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is closely associated with cholinergic neuronal impairment, which is induced by excessive degradation of acetylcholine (ACh) mediated by acetylcholinesterase (AChE). In this study, a series of novel indole-fused polycyclic derivatives (1-28) were designed, synthesized, and assessed for their AChE inhibitory activities. The biological evaluation results demonstrated that most of the compounds exhibited moderate to excellent AChE inhibitory activities. Among them, compounds 8, 9, 21, and 26 showed leading AChE inhibitory activity with IC50 values of 0.29 μM, 1.5 μM, 1.2 μM, and 1 μM, respectively, which were superior to the positive control galantamine (IC50 = 2.2 μM). Furthermore, favorable drug-likeness profiles and optimal pharmacokinetic properties were confirmed for compound 8 through ADME analysis. Stable binding interactions between compound 8 and AChE were validated by the results of 100 ns molecular dynamics simulations. Overall, compound 8 was characterized as a potent and well-qualified AChE inhibitor, and further systematic investigations are warranted for its application in the treatment of AD-related diseases.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Anthyllis henoniana leaves and flowers were subjected to fractionated extraction using cyclohexane (CYHA), dichloromethane (DCM), ethyl acetate (EtOAc) and methanol (MeOH). The leaves-MeOH extract showed the highest yield and total polyphenol contents (TPC) compared to the flowers. The strongest antiradical activity (IC50 = 7.7 µg/mL) was recorded for the leaves compared to flowers (>50 µg/mL). The HPLC-DAD analysis showed the presence of eight and twelve bioactive compounds in the leaf and flower extracts, respectively. The flowers-CYHA extract exhibited the best anti-5-lipoxygenase (anti-5-LOX) activity (IC50 = 15 µg/mL) compared to the leaves (IC50 = 42 to 47 µg/mL). Anthyllis henoniana leaves showed greater anti-acetylcholinesterase (anti-AChE) activity than the flowers. The leaves-DCM fraction induced 60 and 70% cell growth inhibition against MCF-7 and HCT-116, respectively. Furthermore, the molecular docking investigations supported the in vitro antioxidant and anti-5-LOX patterns, revealing that the identified compounds exhibited low binding energies and interacted effectively within the novel human peroxidase (PDB:1PRX) and the crystal structure of soybean lipoxygenase-B (PDB: 2IUJ) enzymes, respectively. The obtained results indicated that the leaves-MeOH extract was the most enriched in polar compounds with high antioxidant and cytotoxic capacities, whereas the flowers-CYHA extracts accumulated nonpolar compounds of an effective anti-inflammatory capacity.© 2025 The Author(s). Chemistry & Biodiversity published by Wiley‐VHCA AG.
BackgroundDifferential expression of long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) in brain, serum, and blood show strong potential to distinguish Alzheimer's disease (AD) from healthy controls.ObjectiveTo explore whether lncRNA signatures delineate AD pathology and map to distinct, multidimensional cognitive domains, enhancing specificity in assessing AD severity and progression.MethodsWe profiled 29,603 lncRNAs transcripts in blood samples from 15 AD patients and 15 healthy controls, alongside comprehensive neuropsychological assessments. Generalized Linear Models and Predictive Power Score analyses, with statistical prioritization, identified lncRNAs associated to AD neuropsychological architecture.ResultsSeveral lncRNAs share strongly associated with cognitive performance and AD severity, mapping to genes involved in key AD-related molecular processes, including synaptic and neurotransmitter regulation (e.g., EPHB1, CHRNA4, TEAD1), protein homeostasis and Aβ pathology (e.g., FBXL2, FAM221A, APP), mitochondrial function and cellular stress (e.g., VDAC3, PPT2-EGFL8), neuroinflammation and immune regulation (e.g., TEAD1, EMX2OS, LY6E-DT), epigenetic and transcriptional control (e.g., PRDM2, DLEU1, FIRRE), neuronal excitability (e.g., KCNJ14), and neuroprotection and synaptic plasticity (e.g., SIL1). Novel associations included ferroptosis, DNA stability, microtubule dynamics, and dendritic orientation (e.g., BTB3, DICER1, GNG7, IBA57, NEAT1, POT1, SRD5A3).ConclusionsWe identify candidate lncRNA signatures that may serve as potential biomarkers and enhance our understanding of the molecular basis of the cognitive architecture in AD, opening new avenues for biomarker identification and targeted therapeutic strategies development. Validation in larger, diverse cohorts is essential to confirm their mechanistic contributions to AD.
This study investigated the effect of glutamine (Gln) on paralytic symptoms in rats poisoned by Bungarus multicinctus and explored the underlying mechanism, focusing on the Agrin-MuSK signaling pathway in neuromuscular transmission recovery.An ex vivo diaphragm tension assay assessed Gln's reversal of venom-induced neuromuscular blockade. A rat poisoning model was established with Bungarus multicinctus venom (0.15 mg/kg). Rats were divided into normal, venom, and venom + Gln groups. We evaluated survival, paralysis, blood gases (PaO2, PaCO2, PaSO2), diaphragm histopathology and ultrastructure, and oxidative stress markers (SOD, MDA). RT-qPCR and Western Blot analyzed key Agrin-MuSK pathway components (mRNA: Agrin, Chrne, Chrna, LRP4, MuSK, Rapsyn; protein: Agrin, p-MuSK/MuSK, α1- subunit of nAChR, ε- subunit of nAChR). Gln significantly reversed venom-induced diaphragm tension decline ex vivo (P < 0.05). In vivo, high-dose Gln (750 mg/kg) significantly improved survival (P < 0.05), alleviated paralysis and hypoxia (increased PaSO2, PaO2; decreased PaCO2, P < 0.05), reduced diaphragm ultrastructural damage, and enhanced antioxidant capacity (increased SOD, decreased MDA, P < 0.05). Venom significantly suppressed key Agrin-MuSK pathway elements (Agrin, p-MuSK/MuSK; P < 0.01). Gln intervention significantly upregulated the expression of pathway molecules (Agrin, Chrne, LRP4, MuSK, Rapsyn mRNA and Agrin, p-MuSK/MuSK protein; P < 0.05 or P < 0.01).Gln effectively alleviates paralysis and improves survival in Bungarus multicinctus-poisoned rats. This protection is associated with improved neuromuscular junction ultrastructure, reduced oxidative stress, and activation of the Agrin-MuSK signaling pathway, promoting neuromuscular transmission recovery. The study provides experimental evidence and potential therapeutic targets for Gln in treating Bungarus multicinctuspoisoning, especially respiratory paralysis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Fast-channel genetic myasthenic syndromes (FCGMSs) are caused by genetic variants in muscle nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) subunits that reduce channel open times and impair neuromuscular transmission. Among these, the CHRNE p.P141L variant (εP141L) is associated with particularly severe disease. Here, we characterized a knock-in mouse model harboring the homologous p.P141L variant in Chrne (εP141L)-C57BL/6J-Chrneem1H/H made by the MRC GEMM program. Homozygous mutant mice fail to thrive, with early lethality (median survival of 16 days), closely recapitulating the severity observed in patients. Despite a preserved neuromuscular junction (NMJ) morphology and robust AChR expression, electrophysiological analyses revealed marked reductions in miniature and evoked endplate potential amplitudes and areas, accompanied by prolonged depolarization kinetics (contrary to expectations for AChR with reduced open times) and increased quantal content, indicative of impaired post-synaptic function with compensatory pre-synaptic adaptation. Notably, disease severity exceeded that of Chrne null mice, likely through competition with more functional g-subunit-containing fetal AChRs. Consistent with this, crossing εP141L mice with CHRNG-expressing mice provided little survival benefit. These findings demonstrate that dysfunctional AChR incorporation is more deleterious than receptor absence and highlight the critical role of subunit composition in sustaining neuromuscular transmission. Pharmacological enhancement of pre-synaptic release with 3,4-diaminopyridine partially improved synaptic parameters. In addition, the AChR-positive allosteric modulator DC-98 modestly improved neurotransmission. Thus, this mouse model provides a faithful platform for mechanistic studies and therapeutic development in FCGMS.
Polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) and the hepatic cholinergic axis are critical regulators of lipid metabolism and inflammatory signaling; however, their time-dependent interplay in hepatocytes remains incompletely understood. Clarifying how n-6 and n-3 PUFAs interact with cholinergic pathways may provide mechanistic insight into metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD).HepG2 cells were used to examine the combined effects of butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) overexpression and PUFA exposure. Cells were treated with linoleic acid (LA; n-6) or α-linolenic acid (α-LA; n-3) for 24 or 48 h. Gene expression analyses were performed to assess pathways involved in de novo lipogenesis, β-oxidation, cholinergic signaling, and inflammatory responses. Cholinesterase activities were measured enzymatically, secreted cytokines were profiled, and molecular docking simulations were performed to evaluate potential α-LA interactions with the α7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (α7 nAChR) and M3 muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (M3 mAChR).An early antilipogenic profile and changes suggestive of increased fatty-acid oxidation (↓SREBP-1c, ↓ACC1, and ↑CPT1A) were induced by α-LA at 24 h and were partially attenuated by 48 h. LA exhibited a biphasic pattern characterized by modest early suppression followed by a pronounced proinflammatory profile at 48 h (↑TNF, ↑IL6, and ↑COX-2). BChE overexpression was associated with increased expression of lipogenic and triglyceride-related genes, whereas cotreatment with PUFAs resulted in time- and class-specific modulation. Cholinergic markers exhibited divergent expression patterns: BCHE + α-LA increased CHAT and CHRNA7 expression at 48 h, whereas ACHE mRNA expression increased under both BCHE + LA and BCHE + α-LA conditions. Enzymatic analyses demonstrated increased total cholinesterase activity in the BChE and α-LA groups, while molecular docking supported the potential accommodation of α-LA within the binding pockets of α7 nAChR and M3 mAChR.PUFA class and exposure duration jointly shape hepatocellular metabolic and inflammatory states, with cholinergic signaling acting as a modulatory node relevant to MASLD.© TÜBİTAK.
Congenital myasthenic syndromes (CMS) are rare genetic disorders caused by pathogenic variants in proteins expressed at the neuromuscular junction. Current literature surrounding adult CMS patients remains limited, primarily derived from Western cohorts.We present a Southeast Asian cohort of adult patients with a clinical diagnosis of CMS who were evaluated at a tertiary neuromuscular referral center. Patients with seronegative myasthenic syndrome who did not respond to immunotherapy were suspected of having CMS and underwent genetic testing. Patients with possible inherited myopathy also underwent comprehensive genetic testing which included genes for myopathies and CMS. Patient demographics and clinical features were recorded and analyzed retrospectively. Electrodiagnostic features, autoantibodies, and molecular testing (where available) were also reported.From a single-center neuromuscular disease cohort of 639 adult patients, we identified seven (1.1%) patients with a clinical diagnosis of CMS. Four (57%) had onset of symptoms in adulthood, of whom two manifested in late adulthood. Six were initially misdiagnosed with seronegative myasthenia gravis or congenital myopathy. A genetic diagnosis was achieved in five (71.4%) patients with a median diagnostic delay of 17.8 years (range 1-38 years). Three patients from two families were identified to have COLQ-CMS, one patient with CHRNE-CMS, and one patient with CHRNA1-CMS. Two patients with COLQ-CMS had a multiphasic clinical course; one had no clear precipitants for her exacerbations. We reclassified two variants, COLQ(NM_005677.4): c.1352G > A p.Cys451Tyr and CHRNA1(NM_000079.4):c.823G > A p.Val275Met as likely pathogenic based on the American College of Medical Genetics criteria. We present an algorithm, based on our institution's experience, which may be helpful to facilitate the diagnosis of CMS in clinical practice.CMS is rare and challenging to diagnose in the adult neurology setting. We present a Southeast Asian cohort of seven adult patients with CMS and discuss their clinical and genotypic features.© 2026. The Author(s).
Placenta previa is a major obstetric complication, yet its potential association with maternal microbiota-associated biological alterations remains largely unexplored. This study aimed to investigate microbiota-associated metabolic and transcriptomic alterations in placenta previa using an integrated multi-omics approach. A total of 72 third-trimester pregnant women (28 with complete placenta previa and 44 controls) were enrolled. Maternal gut, oral, and vaginal microbiota were profiled using 16S rRNA gene sequencing, while placental tissues underwent targeted short-chain fatty acid (SCFA) metabolomic profiling and RNA sequencing. Multi-omics integration, ecological network analysis, and pathway enrichment analyses were performed to identify microbiota-associated biological alterations linked to placenta previa. Global microbial diversity remained largely preserved across maternal body sites in placenta previa. However, gut microbiota demonstrated prominent ecological network remodeling and was associated with coordinated placental SCFA and transcriptomic alterations. Several placental SCFAs, including acetic acid, propionic acid, isobutyric acid, and isovaleric acid, exhibited increased abundance trends in placenta previa. Integrated metabolomic and transcriptomic analyses convergently identified cholinergic synapse signaling as a shared altered pathway. In addition, cholinergic signaling-related genes, including CHRNB4 and GNB5, demonstrated coordinated associations with altered placental SCFAs and specific gut microbial taxa. These findings suggest the existence of a potential gut microbiota-placental metabolite-transcriptome axis associated with placenta previa. Multi-omics convergence on cholinergic synapse signaling highlights a potential biological pathway linking gut microbiota-associated metabolic alterations with placental transcriptomic remodeling in placenta previa.Placenta previa is a major obstetric complication with poorly understood biological mechanisms beyond established anatomical and clinical risk factors. This study provides the first integrated multi-omics investigation linking maternal microbiota, placental short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), and placental transcriptomic alterations in placenta previa. Rather than identifying broad microbial ecosystem disruption, we observed coordinated ecological remodeling of gut microbiota together with altered placental SCFA profiles and transcriptomic pathways. Notably, metabolomic and transcriptomic analyses convergently implicated cholinergic synapse signaling as a shared altered pathway associated with placenta previa. These findings support the existence of a potential gut microbiota-placental metabolite-transcriptome axis and provide new biological insights into microbiota-associated signaling alterations in placenta previa.
Neuroblastoma is characterized by frequent involvement of bone marrow (BM) as a site of cell dissemination and spread. In this study, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was used to analyze the cellular heterogeneity of a subset of metastatic BM samples collected at initial diagnosis. Comparison of the single-cell data with bulk RNA sequencing further refined the analysis. An enrichment of regulatory T cells relative to a healthy control and activation of the CD24, CD47, and CD200 "don't eat me" signals were documented. Computational analyses highlighted communication between neuroblastoma and myeloid cells via the amyloid precursor protein (APP) and midkine (MK) signaling networks. Within neuroblastoma cells, mutually exclusive adrenergic and transitory cell states were identified, and ten sub-clusters were denoted. In addition, common and unique tumor cell antigens were investigated. CNTFR and CHRNA3, as high-ranking candidates, were validated, confirming their strong selectivity for neuroblastoma cells. Taken together, these findings support the existence of a significant tumor-dependent modulation of the BM ecosystem, which should be considered when introducing immunotherapy. Furthermore, they highlight the potential to investigate new antigens at the single-cell resolution.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42428962 is a review article
Rheumatoid arthritis-associated interstitial lung disease (RA-ILD) is a severe extra-articular manifestation with limited treatment options. Identifying anti-arthritic agents that concurrently protect against ILD is clinically significant. Sinomenine (SIN), a natural alkaloid used clinically to treat RA, shows potential anti-fibrotic activity, but its efficacy and mechanism in RA-ILD remain unclear. Here, integrative bioinformatic analyses identified ILD-associated signature characterized by upregulated CHRNA7 (encoding α7nAChR) and downregulated GLUL, specifically in pulmonary fibroblasts and myofibroblasts, and GLUL was a crucial mediator between RA and ILD. In the adjuvant-induced arthritis (AIA) model with pulmonary inflammatory and fibrotic remodeling, the phenotype that recapitulates early-stage RA-ILD, pulmonary ACh and α7nAChR expression were observed upregulated. SIN ameliorated arthritis and pulmonary lesions, suppressed pulmonary α7nAChR signaling, inhibited AKT/FOXO3 activation, restored GLUL expression and improved autophagy-related changes in this model. Microscale thermophoresis (MST), molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulation supported a direct binding between SIN and α7nAChR. In vitro, α7nAChR activation with PNU-282987 promoted fibroblast-to-myofibroblast transition (FMT), whereas its genetic knockdown inhibited FMT, suppressed AKT/FOXO3 activation, and restored GLUL expression in TGF-β-stimulated MRC-5 cells. We confirmed direct FOXO3 binding to the GLUL promoter by ChIP-qPCR. SIN inhibited FMT and regulated the AKT/FOXO3/GLUL axis in an α7nAChR-dependent manner. Pharmacological inhibition and siRNA-mediated knockdown of GLUL abolished SIN-mediated regulation of mTOR-autophagy signaling and FMT. Our findings identify the α7nAChR/AKT/FOXO3/GLUL axis as a novel fibrotic driver and highlight SIN as a potential therapeutic candidate to inhibit RA-ILD by targeting this axis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42383519 is a review article
Adverse historical conditions shape biodiversity by driving demographic shifts and genomic divergence through evolutionary mechanisms. Selective pressures foster adaptive strategies in response to extreme environments, with hibernation as a key example. The expression of torpor and its various forms exemplify such adaptations. However, the genomic basis of these processes and the influence of evolutionary forces, particularly natural selection, remain largely unexplored. The Monito del Monte (Dromiciops), a small marsupial considered a living fossil, exhibits torpor, hibernation, and aestivation as key survival strategies. In this study, we investigated genomic adaptations in Dromiciops and their potential relationship with the physiological state of torpor and hibernation. Historical climate change, along with varying expansions and bottlenecks, appears to have shaped the genetic diversity and local adaptation of Dromiciops. At the ancestral Dromiciops node, positive selection was detected in PFKFB2, LAMP3, OTX1, and RAPSN, alongside enrichment in the MAPK signaling and steroid hormone biosynthesis pathways-both previously implicated in hibernation physiology. Gene family expansions further converged on mitochondrial maintenance and redox regulation. At the species level, D. gliroides and D. bozinovici show no overlap in positively selected genes: D. gliroides presents additional signals in LSS and RASL11B, related to sterol and stress-response metabolism, while D. bozinovici shows signatures of broad thermal stress tolerance through HSPA2. These findings underscore unique adaptations possibly linked to hibernation in Dromiciops and species-specific differences.© 2026 The Author(s). Ecology and Evolution published by British Ecological Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), and Huntington's disease (HD), are progressive disorders with limited therapeutic options. Centella asiatica (C. asiatica), a medicinal and edible plant, has been reported to exert neuroprotective and anti-neuroinflammatory properties. Yet, the mechanisms underlying its effects against neurodegenerative diseases remain largely unclear.We employed an integrative strategy combining network pharmacology, transcriptomic analyses, machine learning and molecular docking to prioritize disease-associated molecular networks and candidate compound-target relationships in AD, PD and HD.Sixteen candidate constituents of C. asiatica met the predefined drug-likeness, gastrointestinal absorption and blood-brain barrier permeability criteria, yielding 370 unique predicted targets. Disease-gene mining identified 983 AD-associated genes, 1,103 PD-associated genes, and 3,316 HD-associated genes. Integration of compound targets, disease-associated genes, and transcriptomic profiles prioritized five hub genes in PD (CCKAR, MAPK8, PSEN2, SLC6A3, and TH), four in AD (APP, PGK1, PIK3CA, and TTR), and four in HD (CHRND, HSP90AA1, PRKCQ, and TH). Enrichment analyses highlighted disease-relevant processes involving neurotransmitter signalling, cAMP and calcium pathways, MAPK-related responses and inflammatory regulation. ROC analyses provided additional support for the discriminatory performance of the prioritized genes in independent datasets, whereas molecular docking identified favourable predicted Vina docking scores and structurally plausible interactions between selected compounds and hub targets.This integrative computational analysis prioritizes candidate C. asiatica constituents, putative disease-associated targets, and molecular pathways in AD, PD, and HD. The findings provide a foundation for subsequent biochemical, cellular, and in vivo validation.Copyright: © 2026 Xie et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Neuromuscular disorders (NMDs) affect approximately 1 in 1,000 individuals and are clinically and genetically heterogeneous. Despite advances in genomic diagnostics, many cases remain unsolved after initial sequencing. Bioinformatic reanalysis approaches provide opportunities to identify missed variants and establish novel disease genes.Preexisting next-generation sequencing datasets from 101 undiagnosed NMD families were reanalyzed using the RD-Connect Genome-Phenome Analysis Platform. The data comprised clinical exome sequencing (45 families), whole exome sequencing (31 families), and whole genome sequencing (25 families). Variant prioritization incorporated population frequency, Human Phenotype Ontology terms, in silico predictions, and genotype-phenotype correlation.Reanalysis identified causative variants in 17 out of 101 previously unsolved families (16.83% diagnostic yield). Eight cases harbored coding variants in known NMD genes (RYR1, AGRN, SCN4A, TTN, MYH2, GOLGA2) consistent with the observed phenotype. In five cases, intronic variants in known NMD genes (COL6A3, SGCA, DOK7, DYSF, CHRND) were considered causative following in silico predictions and careful correlation with the phenotype. One case had an extended phenotype (PTPN11), and one case had a dual diagnosis (MYH2, KIF21A). A novel ATP2A2 missense variant was identified in two unrelated families, establishing ATP2A2 as a new NMD gene.Research-based reanalysis of preexisting NGS data improved diagnostic yield of previously unsolved cases consistent with previous literature, reinforcing the utility of in-depth, phenotype-driven reanalysis with expert review. Our study provided 17 families with unsolved NMDs with a diagnosis after having waited for a decade. This supports the routine reanalysis of unsolved NGS data, highlighting its potential to reclassify variants of unknown significance and reveal novel genes and pathomechanisms in NMDs.© 2026. Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Electronic feeders record feeding behavior, enabling identification of feeder replacement events and application of social network analysis (SNA) to characterize individual roles within group dynamics. We estimated genetic parameters for SNA-related traits and performed a single-step weighted genome-wide association (ssWGWAS) in Nellore cattle. Data from 1367 young animals from 32 feed efficiency trials were used to quantify feeder replacement networks. Betweenness and closeness centrality, clustering coefficient, and degree centrality were analyzed using single-step GBLUP models integrating pedigree (n = 5069) and genomic (n = 3860) information. Heritability estimates were low for betweenness centrality (0.04 ± 0.03), closeness centrality (0.05 ± 0.03) clustering coefficient (0.14 ± 0.04) and degree centrality (0.18 ± 0.05). The strongest genetic correlation was observed between closeness and degree centrality (0.81 ± 0.20), whereas the remaining correlations were generally low to moderate, including weak negative associations of clustering coefficient with closeness (- 0.24 ± 0.49) and degree centrality (- 0.09 ± 0.21). The ssWGWAS identified regions harboring genes linked to neural plasticity, motivation, social regulation, and stress responsiveness, including GABRR1, RBFOX1, MET, COMT, CHRNA6, and FOXP2. SNA-related traits showed limited additive genetic variation and were associated with genomic regions involved in neural and behavioral regulation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Congenital myasthenic syndromes (CMS) are inherited disorders caused by defects of the neuromuscular junction. Both the definitive diagnosis and the treatment are structured in accordance with genetic analysis. We aimed to investigate the clinical and genetic characteristics of CMS in a pediatric cohort from Southeastern Türkiye, a region with high rates of consanguineous marriage. The clinical features and demographic data of fifteen patients (9 girls, 6 boys) with CMS were evaluated. Genetic analysis was performed using clinical exome sequencing. The mean age of patients was 7.4 ± 4.1 years, and the mean age at diagnosis was 5.8 ± 4 years. Symptoms were present from birth in most patients. The latest age at symptom onset was 11 years. The patients presented with ptosis, ophthalmoplegia, muscle weakness, frequent falls, collapse, respiratory distress, dysphagia, and laryngomalacia. Homozygous variants in COLQ (11/15, 73%), CHAT (1), DOK7 (1), RAPSN (1), and a compound heterozygous variant in MYO9A (1) were identified. The same variant, c.444G > A, was detected in all patients with COLQ variants except one, in whom the c.706C > T variant was identified. Epilepsy was observed in three patients (two with COLQ and one with CHAT variants). CMS in Southeastern Türkiye is predominantly caused by COLQ variants, particularly the recurrent c.444G > A nonsense variant, likely reflecting a founder effect in this region with a consanguineous marriage rate of 43%.Copyright © 2026 European Paediatric Neurology Society. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Accelerated CHRN/AChR/nicotinic acetylcholine receptor internalization induced by auto-antibodies impairs neuromuscular junction transmission and contributes to myasthenia gravis (MG), a typical autoimmune disease. Although CHRN internalization is well established in MG pathogenesis, the downstream cellular events, especially those related to autophagy, remain poorly described. Here, we report that RAPSN/rapsyn, an intracellular CHRN-binding protein essential for its clustering, accumulates as aggregates in experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (EAMG) mice. In CHRN antibody-treated myotubes, RAPSN dissociates from internalized CHRN and forms aggregates due to exposure of its hydrophobic domains. These aggregates in turn impair the trafficking and membrane incorporation of newly synthesized CHRN, thereby exacerbating CHRN loss. Notably, the accumulation of RAPSN aggregates facilitates formation of HSPA/HSP70-BAG3 complex, which recognizes and transports the aggregates along microtubules to form perinuclear aggresomes for subsequent lysosomal degradation. Accordingly, pharmacological inhibition or knockdown of HSPA-BAG3 complex increases RAPSN aggregation, which participates in enhanced CHRN loss and worsened muscle weakness in EAMG mice. This study identifies HSPA-BAG3 aggrephagy as a protective mechanism that clears RAPSN aggregates to maintain CHRN integrity and suggests a potential therapeutic strategy for MG.Abbreviation: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; AAV: adeno-associated virus; CASA: chaperone-assisted selective autophagy; CHRN/nicotinic acetylcholine receptor: cholinergic receptor nicotinic; CHRN-ab: CHRN antibodies; CHX: cycloheximide; CMAP: compound muscle action potential; CQ: chloroquine; EAMG: experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; GAS: gastrocnemius; MAP1LC3A/B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 alpha/beta; MG: myasthenia gravis; NMJ: neuromuscular junction; Rapa: rapamycin; RAPSN/rapsyn: receptor associated protein of the synapse; SQSTM1: sequestosome 1; TA: tibialis anterior; αBTX-A594: α-bungarotoxin-Alexa-594.
BACKGROUND Congenital myasthenic syndrome (CMS) is a clinically and genetically heterogeneous disorder of neuromuscular transmission, with more than 35 associated genes. Although CMS typically presents at birth or in early childhood, adult-onset forms are increasingly recognized and frequently mimic seronegative autoimmune myasthenia gravis, causing diagnostic delay. Its prevalence (2.8-14.8 per million) is probably underestimated, particularly for mild, late-onset, or atypical phenotypes. CASE REPORT A 42-year-old man with well-controlled seropositive rheumatoid arthritis presented with progressive fatigue, fluctuating proximal weakness (Medical Research Council grade 4/5 with fatigability), bilateral ptosis, and intermittent diplopia. Nerve conduction studies, repetitive nerve stimulation, and electromyography were normal, and a comprehensive autoimmune and myositis antibody panel was negative, prompting genetic testing. Whole-exome and whole-genome sequencing identified a heterozygous pathogenic CHRND variant; additional variants of uncertain or unrelated significance were also detected. Because CHRND-related CMS is classically autosomal recessive and single-fiber electromyography was not performed, a single heterozygous variant cannot be regarded as confirmatory, and the diagnosis is considered suspected rather than definitive. Pyridostigmine produced clinically meaningful improvement-reduced ptosis, resolved diplopia, and improved endurance-that was sustained at the 6-week follow-up. CONCLUSIONS CMS should be considered in adults with fatigable weakness and atypical neuromuscular features once autoimmune causes are excluded; however, a single heterozygous variant without confirmatory electrophysiology limits diagnostic certainty. To our knowledge, this is the first report of a suspected CHRND-associated adult-onset CMS with seropositive rheumatoid arthritis. Broad genetic testing is valuable when phenotype and serology diverge, but results must be interpreted cautiously alongside electrophysiological confirmation before a definitive diagnosis.
Congenital myasthenic syndromes represent a heterogenous group of rare genetic disorders that affect the neuromuscular junction. They present with variable combinations of extraocular, facial, bulbar, and limb muscle weakness with typical diurnal fluctuations of symptoms, with increased risk of sleep-related disorders. Due to the variable course, clinical diagnosis can be challenging and delayed, sometimes for decades.We present the case of a 5-year-old girl presumed to have benign infantile hypotonia, who exhibited head drop during intercurrent illnesses and increased evening fatigue. Intermittent bilateral ptosis, initially unreported by the family and not observed during early morning examinations, became evident during a late afternoon visit. Given the clinical suspicion of a congenital myasthenic syndrome, genetic testing was performed and identified a homozygous pathogenic variant in the RAPSN gene responsible for a post-synaptic form of congenital myasthenia. Due to the complaints of excessive night-time snoring, overnight polygraphies (PG) were performed, revealing obstructive sleep-apnoea secondary to oropharyngeal muscle weakness. Symptomatic treatment with pyridostigmine, including a night-time dose, was followed by drastic improvement and near-complete resolution of nocturnal symptoms.Congenital myasthenia may be more prevalent than recognised, with milder phenotypes still frequently overlooked or misdiagnosed. Sleep apnea is an important comorbidity that should be actively investigated. Optimised pyridostigmine therapy, including nocturnal dosing, can significantly alleviate symptoms and improve quality of life.© 2026. The Author(s).
Beige-adipocyte activity, mediated by CHRNA2, significantly influences adipose function and systemic metabolism. The CHRNB2 subunit forms a functional receptor with CHRNA2 and is essential for the response to nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonists in beige adipocytes. Deletion of Chrnb2 in mice compromises the adaptive response to cold in subcutaneous adipose tissue and renders exacerbated metabolic dysfunction due to diet-induced obesity. This cholinergic signaling within subcutaneous adipose tissue declines with aging. CHRNB2 partial agonists, a family of drugs clinically used for smoking cessation, activate both murine and human beige adipocytes.© 2026 by the American Diabetes Association.
Human-specific segmental duplications (HSDs) contain millions of base pairs of sequence unique to the human genome, including genes that shape neurodevelopment. Despite their young age (<6 million years), HSD genes exhibit widespread regulatory divergence, with paralog-specific expression patterns documented across a variety of tissues and cell types. Using long-read expression and epigenomic data, we show that human-specific paralogs tend to have lower activity than the shared, ancestral ones. To systematically characterize the cis-regulatory elements (CREs) within HSDs and understand patterns of regulatory change in recently evolved gene families, we conduct a massively parallel reporter assay of 7760 human duplicated and chimpanzee orthologous sequences in lymphoblastoid (GM12878) and neuroblastoma (SH-SY5Y) cell lines. A large proportion (14%-24%) of sequences exhibit differential activity relative to the chimpanzee ortholog (or between human paralogs), mostly with small fold-differences. Combining measured activity levels across all assayed sequences, predicted differences in cis-regulatory activity correlate with mRNA levels in SH-SY5Y. Differentially active CREs validated for CHRFAM7A, HYDIN2, and SRGAP2C may contribute to paralog-specific expression patterns and thereby to human-specific traits. Although we identify some changes in CRE activity within duplicated regions, consideration of adjacent, unique sequences suggests a larger contribution from genome positional effects. In all, this work shows that functional divergence of duplicated CREs contributes moderately to regulatory divergence of HSD genes and uncovers enhancers that are candidate drivers of human-specific regulatory patterns.© 2026 Shew et al.; Published by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press.
The CHRNA7 gene, located on chromosome 15q13.3, encodes the α7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (α7 nAChR) subunit and lies within a genomic region characterized by high recombination rates and associations with multiple neuropsychiatric disorders. Within this region, the human specific gene CHRFAM7A arose through partial duplication, rearrangement, and fusion between CHRNA7 and FAM7A. The direct CHRFAM7A allele has been shown to negatively regulate α7 nAChR function. The inverted allele (CHRFAM7AΔ2bp), harboring a two-base pair deletion in exon 6, is linked to schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and other psychiatric conditions. In this study, we investigated how the presence of the CHRFAM7AΔ2bp allele alters the cellular proteome. Using high-throughput proteomic analysis by liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-MS/MS), we characterized protein expression in neuronal progenitors differentiated from isogenic human induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) lines representing CHRFAM7AΔ2bp and CHRFAM7A-null genotypes. Comparative analysis identified 129 differentially expressed proteins enriched in pathways related to extracellular matrix organization, collagen biosynthesis, and cell adhesion. Functional assays further demonstrated differences in matrix adhesion between CHRFAM7A-null and CHRFAM7AΔ2bp-derived progenitors. These results suggest that the CHRFAM7AΔ2bp variant influences cellular structure through modulation of adhesion matrix-interaction proteins. This work provides insight into molecular mechanisms that may underlie increased neurodisease vulnerability associated with this genotype.© 2026. The Author(s).
CHRFAM7A is a biallelic uniquely human fusion gene present in 99.3% of humans. The direct and inverted alleles likely emerged independently in Africa and East Asia. We uncovered that the inverted allele regulates ULK4 expression through genetic epistasis. The increase in long to short ULK4 isoform ratio enhances α-tubulin acetylation leading to microtubule (MT) cytoskeleton phenotypes (cell body: microtubule rich projections; neurite: de-bundling; growth cone: fanning with MT invasion). The MT cytoskeleton gain of function enhances neuronal arborization and functional connectivity in the human brain. Considering that the previously reported direct allele leads to actin cytoskeleton gain of function, we propose that CHRFAM7A alleles represent binary human genetic background through divergent evolution of the cytoskeleton. In the human brain the two alleles represent distinct brain organization: the direct allele enhances microstructure as measured by diffusion tensor imaging while the inverted allele increases functional connectivity with increased small world propensity. The two types of brain organization likely represent different susceptibility to neuropsychiatric disease and may underlie the allelic disease associations.
Choline is an essential nutrient critical for cellular homeostasis across all domains of life. In humans, choline uptake in cholinergic neurons for its recycling into acetylcholine is mediated by the high-affinity Na+-dependent transporter SLC5A7 (CHT1). Prokaryotes also depend on choline as an osmo-protectant and as metabolite, raising the possibility that bacteria also have choline transporters akin to CHT1. Here, we identify and characterize a bacterial Na+-dependent choline transporter (sfCHT) with high sequence identity to CHT1. Cryo-EM structures of Na+- and choline-bound sfCHT reveal a LeuT-fold architecture with Na+ coordination geometry similar to CHT1. Captured in an inward-facing conformation, in sfCHT choline is found at a site near the cytoplasmic side. Computational analysis and transport assays of sfCHT and CHT1 variants reveal local conformational rearrangements in conserved residues along a defined pathway to the cytosolic site. These findings provide structural and mechanistic insights into intracellular choline transition, suggesting an evolutionarily conserved mechanism between the bacterial and human choline transporters.
Transfer RNA-derived fragments (tsRNAs) are critical regulators in tumorigenesis, yet their specific roles in colorectal cancer (CRC) metastasis remain poorly characterized. In vitro and in vivo functional experiments were conducted to explore the effects of tsRNA-10547 on the growth and metastasis of CRC. Transcriptome sequencing, RNA pull-down, RNA immunoprecipitation, and site-directed mutagenesis were performed to explore the molecular mechanism of tsRNA-10547.We found tsRNA-10547 was significantly upregulated in CRC tumors compared to control both in GSE140327 dataset and clinical samples. Overexpression of tsRNA-10547 significantly enhanced CRC cell proliferation, migration, and invasion in vitro, and promoted lung metastasis in vivo. The m1A methyltransferase TRMT10C, which modified tRNA-Arg-TCT to produce tsRNA-10547, was upregulated in CRC. Orthotopic xenograft experiments demonstrated that TRMT10C promotes CRC lung metastasis through tsRNA-10547. RNA sequencing identified CHRNA9 as a target gene of tsRNA-10547 and rescue experiments confirmed that tsRNA-10547 facilitates CRC growth and metastasis via inhibition of CHRNA9. Mechanistically, tsRNA-10547 related to Argonaute 2 (AGO2) within the RNA-induced silencing complex to directly target the 3'UTR of CHRNA9 mRNA, accelerating its degradation and thereby suppressing CHRNA9 expression. In conclusion, TRMT10C-mediated m1A modification promotes tsRNA-10547 biogenesis. tsRNA-10547 then degrades CHRNA9 mRNA by binding to AGO2, accelerating CRC growth and lung metastasis. This study provides crucial insights for preventing CRC metastasis and highlights the translational potential of tsRNAs.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Acute colitis is an inflammatory condition of the equine colon associated with high morbidity and mortality. In these horses, epithelial barrier function is critical but the mechanisms underlying large intestinal epithelial damage and recovery are incompletely understood.Our objectives were to (1) identify intestinal colitis-associated transcriptional pathways, and (2) determine the effect of in vitro choline supplementation on the epithelial barrier.We performed RNA-sequencing on rectal biopsies from healthy and colitis horses (n = 3/group). Downregulated SLC5A7, a gene encoding CHT1 (High-Affinity Choline Transporter 1), was confirmed using qRT-PCR and immunofluorescence on large intestinal (cecum, right ventral colon (RVC), right dorsal colon (RDC), and rectum) biopsies from additional healthy and colitis horses (n = 8-20/group). Primary monolayer epithelial cultures derived from healthy RDC (n = 4 horses) were treated with 0-250 µM choline and monitored for cellular proliferation and barrier permeability.We identified a colitis-associated transcriptome in rectal biopsies, including upregulated inflammatory response, cell cycle, and epithelial reorganization gene sets. There was decreased SLC5A7 expression throughout large intestinal biopsies of colitis horses (healthy cecum mean log2 fold change 1.8, 95% CI [1.12, 2.67] vs colitis cecum mean log2 fold change -0.5, 95% CI [-1.42, 0.42]). Apical epithelial CHT1 immunofluorescence was diminished in cecum, RVC, and RDC biopsies from colitis horses. Choline supplementation increased cellular proliferation and decreased time to confluency of epithelial monolayers, however no difference in barrier permeability post-confluency was observed.Acute equine colitis has a distinct transcriptomic signature. Our findings suggest that choline supplementation may encourage epithelial barrier recovery.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) shows tremendous heterogeneity in terms of morphology and gene expression. One of the diagnostically significant characteristics of GBM is the choline peak that can be found in patients’ NMR. Choline derivatives are distributed unevenly throughout the tumor and concentrated, in particular, at the leading edge and infiltrating GBM tumour zones as well as gene transcripts of α7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR), known for its ability to become activated upon choline binding. Since agonist-induced nAChR up-regulation in brain and cell lines has been described and several studies have highlighted the role of nAChR ligands in glioblastoma proliferation in vivo, here we hypothesize for the first time that the complex architecture of glioblastoma might develop partially through choline activation of calcium-permeable α7 nAChR that may contribute to changes in gene expression networks. Using the U87MG glioblastoma cell line, we demonstrated that selective α7 nAChR ligands – agonist (PNU282987) and positive allosteric modulator (PNU120596), and antagonist of α7 and α9 nAChRs (α-cobratoxin, α-CTX, from Naja naja venom) – dynamically regulate nAChR subunit mRNA expression (CHRNA4, CHRNA5, CHRNA6, CHRNA7, CHRNA9). α-CTX suppressed agonist-induced CHRNA7 up-regulation in U87MG cells and increased cell viability. Proteomic analysis revealed altered expression of cytoskeletal (ACTG1), metabolic (SHMT2, GLRX3), and endoplasmic reticulum-associated (GANAB) proteins, suggesting the involvement of calcium-dependent signaling downstream of α7 nAChR activation. Quantitative PCR, proteomics and cell viability data were integrated by cellular automata model imitating glioblastoma growth and exposed details of tumour progression, which supports a role for α7 nAChR as one of multiple factors that can help shape intratumoural heterogeneity. These results may have implications for the development of personalized treatment strategies. However, since these findings were obtained in a single cell line, further validation in additional GBM models and in vivo systems is needed before broader conclusions can be drawn.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) alleviates motor symptoms in Parkinson's disease (PD), but how it modulates whole-brain dynamics to drive therapeutic effects remains unclear. We hypothesized that STN-DBS restores signatures of cortical metastability-a dynamic balance between integration and segregation of neural networks-critical for adaptive behavior. Using a novel Weighted Eigenvector Dynamics Analysis (WEiDA) on resting-state fMRI data from PD patients, we identified four recurring probabilistic metastable substates (PMS). PD patients exhibited aberrantly low occupancy of a state characterized by decoupling between visual (VN) and somatomotor/ventral attention (SMN/VAN) networks (State V-VA/SM), which normalized with DBS and correlated with motor improvement. This rebalancing was mediated by decreased local metastability and enhanced functional segregation between VN and SMN/VAN modules, linked to cholinergic gene expression (CHRNA10). Notably, analogous normalization of metastable dynamics and symptom relief emerged during noninvasive STN-targeted temporal interference stimulation (tTIS), indicating converged network-level mechanisms across neuromodulation modalities. Our findings highlight cortical metastability signatures as a potential substrate for DBS efficacy in PD, bridging invasive and noninvasive therapeutic strategies through dynamic brain state modulation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) belong to the pentameric ligand-gated ion channel superfamily (pLGICs). Among them, the neuronal homomeric α7 nAChR is highly permeable to calcium and plays critical roles in synaptic transmission, cell signaling, and inflammation modulation. The biogenesis of α7 nAChRs is enhanced by the chaperone proteins RIC-3 and NACHO. Previously, we reported a motif in the 5-HT 3A receptor, another pLGIC, involved in RIC-3 modulation. Residues in this motif are conserved and also found within the L1-MX segment of the α7 nACh subunit. We therefore explored the regulatory roles of these conserved residues in the biogenesis of α7 nAChRs using multiple approaches, including heterologous expression in Xenopus laevis oocytes, mutagenesis, pull-down assays, cell-surface labeling, and two-electrode voltage-clamp (TEVC) recordings. We find that synthetic α7 L1-MX peptide interacts with both RIC-3 and NACHO. In particular, conserved residues W330, R332, and L336 in the L1-MX positively regulates the assembly of α7 oligomers and the biogenesis of α7nAChR. In presence of residues W330, R332, and L336, NACHO promotes an assembly of an α7 pentamer which is resistant to strong denaturing conditions. NACHO-promoted α7 pentamer is also resistant to Endo H enzyme. Sensitivity of the pentamer to moderate temperatures (37 °C, 45 °C, and 50 °C) suggests that NACHO stabilizes the pentamer via non-covalent interactions. In contrast, Ala replacements at these residues disrupt the biogenesis and abolish α7 current. NACHO and RIC-3 co-expression yields partial rescue of functional expression for some Ala replacement constructs.This work identifies regulatory roles of conserved residues W330, R332, and L336 in the biogenesis of α7 nAChR. This discovery positions MX subdomain as a promising target for future drug development that can minimize adverse effects.
Nicotinic acetylcholine receptor of α7 type (α7-nAChR) is a ligand-gated ion channel composed of five identical α7 subunits. Secreted lymphocyte antigen-6 urokinase-type plasminogen activator receptor (Ly6/uPAR)-related protein-1 (SLURP-1) controls carcinoma progression by negative modulation of oncogenic α7-nAChR. In this study, we observed dramatic decrease of SLURP-1 plasma level in patients with metastatic melanoma. We suggested usage of recombinant analog of human SLURP-1 (rSLURP-1) to compensate this deficiency for metastatic melanoma treatment. rSLURP-1 did not affect viability of different patient-derived metastatic melanoma cells, but reduced migration of some of them. Metastatic melanoma cells of other lines were resistant to rSLURP-1. Antimigratory rSLURP-1 effect was mediated by α7-nAChR, whereas resistance to rSLURP-1 correlated with overexpression of human-specific CHRFAM7A gene, which encodes the α7 subunit with truncated N-terminal region (dupα7) able to form hybrid α7/dupα7-nAChR channels. Electrophysiological study in Xenopus laevis oocytes showed that rSLURP-1 inhibits α7/dupα7-nAChR weaker than α7-nAChR. In contrast, "Oncotag" peptide, which mimics the loop I of SLURP-1, inhibited α7/dupα7- and α7-nAChRs with similar efficiency. Oncotag suppressed metastatic melanoma cell migration independently on dupα7 expression. Computer modeling provided rationale for altered activities of rSLURP-1 and Oncotag on α7/dupα7-nAChR. The Cancer Genome Atlas Program (TCGA) database analysis revealed correlation between CHRNΑ7 and CHRFAM7A gene expression and worse survival prognosis for patients with metastatic melanoma. Thus, 1) low plasma SLURP-1 level may be a specific marker of metastatic melanoma development, 2) metastatic melanoma progression can be controlled by α7-nAChR inhibition, and 3) dupα7 overexpression is a new molecular mechanism of melanoma resistance to internal cholinergic control and new target for melanoma treatment.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Metastatic melanoma is aggressive skin tumor often resistant to standard therapies. High α7-nAChR expression negatively correlates with survival of patients with metastatic melanoma, who are characterized by SLURP-1 drop in the plasma. Targeting α7-nAChR with recombinant SLURP-1 could significantly suppress metastatic melanoma cell migration; however, overexpression of human-specific dupα7 subunit forming hybrid α7/dupα7-nAChRs causes melanoma resistance to SLURP-1. This resistance can be overcome by the SLURP-1 mimicking peptide Oncotag, which exhibits activity against hybrid α7/dupα7-nAChRs.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42567903
Atrial fibrillation (AF), a common arrhythmia, is associated with impaired quality of life and increased stroke risk and mortality. Clinical guidelines recommend leveraging digital technologies to support patient education and AF self-management. Conversational artificial intelligence (AI) technologies may support patient engagement with self-management by enabling human-like conversations. This study aims to evaluate the effectiveness of a conversational AI intervention (Conversational artificial intelligence HeAlth supporT in Atrial Fibrillation Self-Management (CHAT-AF-S)) in improving quality of life in patients with AF.CHAT-AF-S is a 3-month randomised controlled trial with 1:1 allocation and embedded process evaluation. We will randomise 480 adults (aged 18 years and older) with documented AF to the CHAT-AF-S intervention or usual care. Primary outcome is the Atrial Fibrillation Effect on QualiTy-of-life overall score. We will follow the intention-to-treat principles and data analysts will be blinded. Intervention participants will be invited to complete a user experience survey and take part in an interview to explore the feasibility, acceptability, perceived use and barriers and enablers to implementing the intervention. Qualitative data will be analysed thematically.Ethics approval was obtained from the Western Sydney Local Health District Human Ethics Research Committee (2023/ETH00765). Written and informed consent will be obtained from all study participants before commencing any study procedures. Results will be disseminated via peer-reviewed publications and presentations at international conferences.Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry (registration number: ACTRN12623000850673).© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY. Published by BMJ Group.
This study evaluated the nutritional adequacy of dog diets formulated by four widely used Artificial Intelligence models (Manus, ChatGPT, DeepSeek, and Gemini) against the recommendations of the European Pet Food Industry Federation. This was a theoretical, in silico study, no animals were fed or clinically evaluated. Using a standardized prompt, complete and balanced diets (beef and chicken) for an 8 kg adult dog were requested. Eleven formulations were analyzed using SuperCracPet® software based on United States Department of Agriculture data. Overall, 61.3% of nutrients were below the minimum recommended levels. Nutrient levels below FEDIAF minimum requirements were identified across multiple categories: energy supply was insufficient in 81% of diets, calcium levels were below recommendations in 91% of formulations, calcium-to-phosphorus ratios were outside the recommended range in 63% of diets, chlorine was absent in all formulations, vitamin D levels were below requirements in 63.7% of diets, choline in 81.8%, and linoleic acid in 72%. Only 18% of the formulations included supplementation, which was provided in insufficient quantity. If implemented chronically, these nutritional inadequacies may pose risks to bone, dermatological, immune, and metabolic health. It is concluded that, in their current form, the evaluated language models are insufficient for the autonomous formulation of canine diets, as the generated prescriptions presented multiple nutritional inadequacies. Safe application requires hybrid systems with mandatory supervision by animal scientists and veterinarians, as well as regulation to prevent avoidable risks to animal health.© 2026 The Authors.
Erythromelalgia is a descriptive term for burning pain and erythema in distal extremities, often worsened by heat and improved by cold. Inherited erythromelalgia has been primarily linked to gain-of-function variants in SCN9A, encoding voltage-gated sodium channel NaV1.7. However, approximately 65% to 85% of patients with erythromelalgia do not have pathogenic SCN9A variants.The objective of this study was to uncover and assess gene variants potentially associated with pediatric-onset erythromelalgia.With IRB approval and informed consent, probands and families with erythromelalgia underwent next-generation sequencing. A list of genes of interest was produced based on Mendelian inheritance models. Selected gene candidates were assessed using the Sequence Kernel Association Test-Optimal (SKAT-O).Sixty-two probands with erythromelalgia and their relatives were included in Mendelian analysis, which identified variants in PR domain zinc finger protein 12 (PRDM12) and dihydropyrimidinase-like protein 2 (DPYSL2). In a targeted 12-gene rare-variant set analysis using SKAT-O, zinc finger homeobox protein 2 (ZFHX2) showed evidence of association (P = 6.9 × 10-4), surpassing Bonferroni correction for 12 tests (α = 4.17 × 10-3), whereas KIF1B showed only a nominal association signal (P = 0.03) that did not survive multiple-testing correction.Genes associated with both increased and decreased pain sensitivity are of considerable interest for elucidating pain mechanisms and analgesic development. As rare variants in PRDM12 and DPYSL2 were identified in a pediatric erythromelalgia cohort and a gene-based rare-variant association signal for ZFHX2 was identified, replication and functional validation are needed.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. on behalf of The International Association for the Study of Pain.
The dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus and perifornical area (DMH/PeF), historically identified as the hypothalamic defence area, plays a key role in orchestrating autonomic and respiratory adjustments during threat-related states. To investigate how activation of this region affects upper-airway and respiratory motor circuits, we examined its anatomical and functional interactions with laryngeal-related medullary nuclei using combined immunohistochemical mapping and physiological recordings in spontaneously breathing anaesthetised rats. Neuronal activation was assessed using c-Fos immunohistochemistry (c-Fos-ir) combined with ChAT and FoxP2 labelling to identify motoneurons and non-motoneuronal populations across the compact, semicompact and loose formations of the nucleus ambiguus (nA), as well as within the nucleus retroambiguus (nRA), during DMH/PeF electrical stimulation. Hypothalamic activation produced a clear subdivision-specific recruitment in the nA, with significant ipsilateral increases in c-Fos-ir within the semicompact (motoneurons, p < 0.001; non-motoneurons, p < 0.05) and compact formations (non-motoneurons, p < 0.05). The nRA also exhibited robust ipsilateral activation (non-motoneurons, p < 0.001). FoxP2-positive neurons remained stable across groups, indicating that FoxP2 reflects neuronal phenotype rather than acute activation. A second set of experiments evaluated the functional impact of electrical and chemical (glutamate) DMH/PeF activation on subglottic pressure, an index of laryngeal resistance. Both stimulation modalities produced a marked reduction in subglottic pressure (p < 0.001 and p < 0.01), accompanied by a reproducible autonomic-respiratory pattern characterised by tachypnoea, tachycardia and a pressor response. Overall, our results provide new insight into how hypothalamic circuits regulate subglottic pressure and laryngeal activity, suggesting that DMH/PeF activation is associated with the recruitment of specific nA and nRA domains, which may contribute to the adjustment of upper-airway patency during defensive responses.Copyright © 2026 Carrillo-Franco, González-García, Morales-Luque, Rivera, Gago, Ponce-Velasco, Dawid-Milner and López-González.
Healthcare providers contended with unique work challenges during the height of the COVID-19 pandemic by adapting to rapidly changing circumstances with limited knowledge and resources. One military treatment facility responded to these challenges by leveraging available technology to implement Operation Oasis, a communally developed and peer-led virtual resiliency program for healthcare providers. This paper aims to: (1) discuss the design and implementation of Operation Oasis, and (2) conduct a thematic analysis of 404 participant chat messages that participants voluntarily and anonymously provided across 2 years of a weekly Operation Oasis music-based offering, Human Jukebox. Key findings of the thematic analysis included that the "Music Appreciation" theme was in 43% of coded messages, making it the most common theme; "Positivity," "Gratitude," "Reminiscence/Nostalgia/Relating to Music," and "Social Connectedness" comprised the remaining top five themes. Participants' comments suggested they had experiences of positive emotions, personal reflection, and interpersonal connection, all of which are recognized as contributors to resilience and well-being. This paper offers workshop facilitators' reflections and lessons learned on the process of creating and implementing Operation Oasis, as well as a discussion of the potential need and impact of supporting similar programs in the future.Copyright © 2026 McLaughlan, Vaudreuil, Freeman, Jacobson Blumenfeld, Van Fossen and Walter.
As large-language-model-enhanced chatbots become increasingly expressive and socially responsive, many users begin forming companionship-like bonds with them. This study investigates how using AI companions relates to psychological well-being. We collected self-reported data from 1,131 US adults who use Character.AI, including survey responses and 4,664 chat sessions (464,687 messages) from 237 participants. By triangulating self-reported usage, relationship descriptions and real chat histories, we identify patterns of engagement and associated outcomes. Smaller social networks were associated with reporting companionship as the primary chatbot use (β = -0.03; 95% confidence interval (CI), (-0.05, -0.01)), which in turn was associated with lower well-being (β = -0.48; 95% CI, (-0.70, -0.25)). For self-reported companionship usage, this association was stronger when interactions were intensive (β = -0.31; 95% CI, (-0.56, -0.06)) and highly disclosive (β = -0.38; 95% CI, (-0.63, -0.14)). These results suggest that the association between AI companionship and well-being is not uniform and depends on users' offline social environments and how chatbots are used.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis is a chronic inflammatory disease of the central nervous system and the leading cause of disability in young adults. In Germany, 90% of relapses are treated with high-dose intravenous glucocorticoids, despite limited evidence for long-term benefit and international preference for oral administration. Time constraints often hinder informed decision-making. The multicentre Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT) POWER@MS2 (N = 160, 2020-2023), conducted at 18 German MS-centres, aimed to promote self-determined relapse management through a complex intervention (dialogue-based decision aid, nurse-led webinar, online-chat).While RCTs demonstrate effectiveness, process evaluations are essential to understand implementation, mechanisms of impact and contextual factors. This study explored healthcare professionals' experiences and attitudes toward implementing relapse self-management and self-medication in clinical practice.A mixed-methods process evaluation followed the UK Medical Research Council- framework. Quantitative data were collected via validated questionnaires at up to three time points and analysed descriptively. Interview guides were developed based on these results. Qualitative data from neurologist and study nurse interviews were thematically analysed. Results were triangulated using a joint display.Data were collected from 55 neurologists and 17 study nurses (quantitative) and from 7 neurologists and 4 nurses (qualitative) (2020-2024). Most neurologists opposed routine steroid use, reserving it for severe relapses. Some voiced concerns about self-management, but informed patients were generally viewed as capable of safe self-medication. Study nurses gave mixed feedback on the intervention, citing overload and improved guidance.Clinicians showed openness toward implementing the intervention. Enhancing accessibility and addressing specific concerns may support broader adoption.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This study evaluated the impact of guideline-based prompting on the performance of large language models (LLMs) in answering dental trauma-related questions. Sixteen multiple-choice questions (MCQs) and sixteen open-ended questions (OEQs) derived from the International Association of Dental Traumatology (IADT) guidelines were used. ChatGPT-4o, Gemini-2.5 Flash, and DeepSeek v3.2 were tested under two conditions: with and without guideline support. Questions were asked three times daily over three consecutive days using independent chat sessions. In the guideline-based condition, the dental trauma guideline was uploaded and models were instructed to answer according to the document. Responses were evaluated using predefined answer keys and a structured rubric. Statistical analyses were performed using the Shapiro-Wilk test, aligned rank transform (ART) analysis, and Bonferroni-adjusted multiple comparisons. Multiple-choice performance was consistently high across all models, with no significant effects of day, time, or AI model. Guideline-based prompting substantially improved performance and guideline concordance on open-ended questions. In the guideline-supported condition, DeepSeek achieved a median score of 32, while ChatGPT and Gemini achieved median scores of 30. Without guideline support, median scores decreased to 26, 20, and 23, respectively. All models achieved 100% accuracy on MCQs with guideline support, whereas accuracy ranged from 81.2% to 100% without guideline support. Significant differences between AI models were observed for OEQ scores (p < 0.001). Guideline-based prompting improved guideline concordance and overall performance, particularly for open-ended dental trauma questions. These findings support the use of guideline grounding to enhance the guideline concordance and reliability of LLM-generated responses while emphasizing the continued need for clinician oversight.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to The Society of The Nippon Dental University.
Dear Editor, A conversation with ChatGPT (Chat Generative Pre-trained Transformer) about pleural effusion.© Journal of the Association of Physicians of India 2026.
Accurate diagnosis of periprosthetic joint infection (PJI) is critical yet challenging. The role of autoantibodies in PJI remains largely unexplored. In this study, we employed phage display immunoprecipitation sequencing (PhIP-Seq) to profile PJI-associated autoantibodies and assess their diagnostic utility in PJI.We collected plasma samples from a cohort of 45 patients, including 25 with PJI, 9 with aseptic loosening, and 11 post-primary arthroplasty without complications. Initially, PhIP-Seq screening was performed on 10 samples (five PJI and five post-primary arthroplasty) to identify significantly differentially expressed autoantibodies. Subsequently, the immunoglobulin G (IgG) levels of these specific autoantibodies were quantified in the plasma of all participants via ELISA, and statistical analysis was performed to evaluate their diagnostic performance in PJI.PhIP-Seq identified IFT80 and VPS54 as PJI-associated autoantigens. ELISA confirmed significantly elevated levels of corresponding IgG antibodies in PJI patients compared to those with aseptic loosening or post-primary arthroplasty (p < 0.01). Both autoantibodies demonstrated preliminary diagnostic performance: IFT80 achieved an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.797 (sensitivity = 56.0%, specificity = 95.0%), while VPS54 yielded an AUC of 0.776 (sensitivity = 72.0%, specificity = 75.0%). A combined diagnostic model integrating both biomarkers further enhanced the diagnostic performance (AUC = 0.810, sensitivity = 68.0%, specificity = 80.0%).This study establishes IFT80 and VPS54 as novel autoantibodies in PJI. Their corresponding autoantibodies exhibit robust diagnostic potential, offering support for the development of serological assays to improve PJI diagnosis.Copyright © 2026 Chang, Ma and Xu.
STAC3 Disorder (STAC3D) is a rare genetic condition characterized by musculoskeletal abnormalities, myopathic facies, palatal anomalies, micrognathia, short stature, and an increased susceptibility to malignant hyperthermia. It was initially described in the Lumbee Native Americans of North Carolina, though it is now found globally. This study aims to characterize the musculoskeletal phenotype of STAC3D to aid in its diagnosis and clinical management.A retrospective cohort study of STAC3D patients from 2014 to 2025 at a single institution was conducted. Patients diagnosed with STAC3D were included. Data collected included demographics, genetic testing, musculoskeletal conditions, and their management. Descriptive and comparative statistics were utilized, with rates reported as percentages and variables expressed as median and means with standard deviation.A total of 26 patients met the selection criteria and were included; 23 patients had musculoskeletal data available for analysis. The median age at diagnosis and time of data collection was 22 days and 4 years (25 d to 55 y), respectively (n=26). The median height and weight percentiles are 1%. In all, 83% (n=19/23) of patients had scoliosis, 48% (n=11/23) had hyperkyphosis, 61% (n=14/23) had joint contractures (8 upper extremity, 3 lower extremity, 3 unspecified), and 61% (n=14/23) had a congenital foot deformity (13 clubfoot deformities, 1 bilateral vertical talus). In all, 57% (n=13/23) of all STAC3D patients required at least one orthopaedic procedure, 78% (n=18/23) underwent at least one non-orthopaedic surgery, and 87% (n=20/23) had at least one general anesthesia event.STAC3D is associated with many musculoskeletal problems, including spinal and congenital foot deformities, joint contractures, and other less frequent pathologies. This study is the first to assess the rates of all musculoskeletal conditions in STAC3D patients. Our cohort represents the largest North American cohort and the second largest global cohort of STAC3D patients in the current literature. The results of our study aim to facilitate early diagnosis and expectation management of STAC3D.This is a retrospective cohort study aimed at describing the musculoskeletal conditions associated with STAC3D.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Psoriasis is a chronic inflammatory autoimmune skin disease for which no standardised and reliable molecular biomarkers of disease course or activity are currently available. Here, we aimed to identify serum biomarkers of psoriasis. Serum samples from 40 patients with psoriasis and 40 healthy volunteers were analysed using ELISA and Proximity Extension Assay proteomics. ELISA revealed significantly increased serum levels of AGO2 and APOA1 in psoriatic patients versus controls, with a strong association between APOA1 and psoriasis (OR = 20.72, 95% CI of 4.57-93.87, p = 0.000137). Targeted serum proteomics additionally identified 35 differentially expressed proteins, including well-known psoriasis drivers (e.g., top upregulated IL17A and SERPINB4). The most downregulated was adrenomedullin (ADM, FC = -10.12). For 14 altered proteins, no previous direct associations with psoriasis were reported. Among them, DEFB103A_DEFB103B and DSG3 showed the best discrimination between psoriasis and control samples, while SERPINB4 correlated with psoriasis severity. APOA1, DEFB103A_DEFB103B, and DSG3 emerge as novel candidate circulating psoriasis biomarkers, and SERPINB4 as a biomarker of psoriasis severity. The functional role of DSG3 and other newly identified proteins (ACRV1, HAO1, ADH4, GPD1, GFER, PTGES2, DSG3, AFAP1L1, GALNT3, RASGRP2, MAP2K6, LXN, NBEAL2, and VPS54) in psoriasis requires further studies.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by progressive neurodegeneration in regionally vulnerable brain areas, yet molecular insights into early pathogenic mechanisms remain limited.We conducted a meta-analysis of transcriptomic datasets from brain regions affected in early-to-moderate AD - including entorhinal cortex, CA1 hippocampus, angular gyrus, and frontal cortex synaptoneurosomes - using data from seven mRNA and one microRNA (miRNA) microarray studies (GSE16759, GSE110226, GSE37264, GSE26972, GSE36980, GSE37263, GSE39420, and GSE157239). Preprocessing included background correction, log2 transformation, quantile normalization, and batch correction via ComBat. Differentially expressed features were defined as false discovery rate <0.05 and | logFC| ≥ 1.23 (genes) or ≥ 2 (miRNAs).We identified 172 differentially expressed genes (122 upregulated and 50 downregulated) and 82 significant miRNAs. Hub genes included Inositol-trisphosphate 3-kinase B (ITPKB), Synaptotagmin 1, Dystrobrevin alpha (DTNA), X Inactive Specific Transcript, and Regulator of G protein signaling 4 (RGS4). Functional enrichment highlighted calcium signaling, synaptic failure, and neuroinflammation. Notably, hsa-miR-30d-5p was predicted to target both ITPKB and DTNA, suggesting a regulatory axis linking miRNA dysregulation to calcium dyshomeostasis. Receiver operating characteristic analysis revealed that only RGS4 showed moderate discriminative capacity (area under the curve [AUC] =0.70), while other hub genes (e.g., ITPKB, AUC = 0.40) exhibited below-chance performance, underscoring the limitations of single-gene classifiers in postmortem tissue.This study provides mechanistic hypotheses - rather than diagnostic biomarkers - by uncovering region-specific, miRNA-mediated regulatory networks in AD-affected brain tissues. Future validation in accessible biofluids is essential before clinical translation.Copyright: © 2026 Journal of Medical Signals & Sensors.
The beneficial effects of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) have been linked to their secreted extracellular vesicles (EVs). These EVs can suppress cartilage degradation and prevent apoptosis in articular cells. We aimed to explore the therapeutic efficacy of engineered BMSCs-EVs in the treatment of osteoarthritis (OA).The isolation of BMSC-derived EVs was conducted via ultracentrifugation techniques, followed by characterization. Engineered EVs were obtained by transfecting chondrocyte-affinity peptide (CAP) and Pre-B-cell leukemia transcription factor 1 (PBX1) expression plasmids into BMSCs. OA injury was induced by the treatment of chondrocytes with IL-1β, and the OA mouse model was established by DMM surgery. The efficacy of different EVs was examined in vitro and in vivo. EVs treatment and combined genetic interventions were performed in vitro and in vivo.Both CAP modification and increased protein loading of PBX1 strengthened the protective effect of EVs on chondrocytes and ameliorated OA-induced cartilage damage. PBX1 promoted extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) signaling and the expression of the downstream molecule c-FOS in chondrocytes by activating the transcriptional expression of calcium channel voltage-dependent subunit beta 4 (CACNB4). The chondroprotective effect of engineered EVs was significantly attenuated by inhibiting CACNB4/ERK signaling in IL-1β-treated chondrocytes, as well as in the DMM-induced mouse model.Engineering (CAP modification and increased PBX1 protein loading) enhances the therapeutic efficacy of BMSCs-EVs on chondrocytes, which depends on the activation of the CACNB4/ERK signaling. Engineered EVs represent a promising treatment for OA cartilage damage.© 2026. The Author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42377142
Juvenile Polyposis Syndrome (JPS) is an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by multiple gastrointestinal polyps and an increased risk of cancer, most commonly associated with mutations in the tumor suppressor gene Smad4. However, substantial phenotypic variability exists among individuals carrying identical mutations, suggesting the presence of genetic modifiers. In this study, we used the genetically diverse Collaborative Cross (CC) mouse population crossed with Smad4 knockout mice to identify loci influencing intestinal polyp development. A cohort of 260 F1 mice derived from 14 CC lines was assessed for polyp number and size across intestinal segments. Quantitative trait locus (QTL) mapping revealed several significant loci, including regions on chromosomes 16, 14, and 12, which were designated Ipsl1, Ipsl2, and Ipsl3 for Intestinal Polyposis Susceptibility locus (Ipsl), respectively, in the full population, as well as additional sex-specific loci in male and female cohorts. Pathway enrichment analysis of genes within these regions highlighted functional associations with immune signaling, ubiquitin-proteasome degradation, and metabolic regulation. Candidate genes, including STAM2, PSMD6, NAMPT, and CACNB4, emerged as potential modifiers of polyp susceptibility. These findings highlight the complex genetic architecture underlying JPS phenotypes and provide candidate loci for future functional and translational investigations.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42189464 is a review article
Impaired glymphatic clearance has been implicated in Alzheimer's disease (AD) through reduced clearance of amyloid-β (Aβ) and other metabolites from the brain. Mislocalisation of aquaporin-4 (AQP4), a water channel protein anchored to astrocytic endfeet by the dystrophin-associated complex (DAC), has been linked to increased Aβ accumulation, neurodegeneration and cognitive impairment. In animal models, genetic ablation of DAC subunits, leading to AQP4 mislocalisation, increases Aβ accumulation. Genetic variation in AQP4 has been examined in the context of AD, but variation in key DAC genes has not been systematically investigated in humans. This study examined whether variation within glymphatic pathway genes is associated with AD-related phenotypes in individuals on the AD trajectory.Associations between genetic variation in glymphatic pathway-related genes (AQP4 and three DAC genes: DAG1, DTNA, and SNTA1) and brain Aβ burden, cognition and regional brain volumes were analysed in two longitudinal cohorts of cognitively unimpaired older adults who were Aβ-positive or demonstrated ongoing Aβ accumulation. Linear regression models assessed cross-sectional and longitudinal outcomes within each cohort, followed by a meta-analysis. Pathway-based glymphatic genetic risk scores (G-GRS) were constructed to assess cumulative genetic impact.At the single-variant level, AQP4, DTNA, and DAG1 showed significant associations with cognition, grey matter atrophy, and ventricular volume after correction for multiple testing. Variants in AQP4 (rs10502478 and rs10164026) were associated with differences in cross-sectional PACC scores. Whilst rs45556134 within DTNA was associated with grey matter atrophy. Further, six variants (rs13079082 DAG1, rs8092794, rs17642885, rs7233779, rs78837792 and rs79500711 DTNA) were associated with cross-sectional ventricular volumes. At the polygenic level, higher G-GRS were associated with lower grey matter volume, faster grey matter atrophy, larger ventricular volumes and lower cognitive composite scores.Variation within key glymphatic pathway genes is associated with early differences in cognition and neurodegeneration-related brain measures in cognitively unimpaired Aβ-positive older adults. These findings support a contributory role for glymphatic pathway dysfunction in early AD-related brain vulnerability and identify glymphatic pathway genetic risk as a potential marker for risk stratification. A limitation of this study is the absence of direct experimental measures of glymphatic clearance function, which will be required to confirm the functional impact of these genetic findings.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) is an important inducer of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). MicroRNAs are key regulators of tumorigenesis. Among these, miR-26a-5p is known to be associated with liver pathogenesis, yet its role in linking MASLD progression to HCC development remains incompletely understood.Hepatic miR-26a-5p expression was quantified in the C57BL/6 mice with a 3-month high-carbohydrate diet (HCD). Public transcriptomic datasets with MASLD and HCC samples were analyzed to identify predicted miR-26a-5p downstream candidates upregulated in the above-mentioned diseases. Associations with tumor features were examined, and protein expression of β-catenin, c-MYC and EpCAM were evaluated after miR-26a-5p modulation.Integrative bioinformatics identified miR-26a-5p as a candidate prognostic indicator for metabolic liver disease progression. In vivo, results confirmed that suppressed miR-26a-5p expression is a hallmark of diet-induced metabolic perturbation. Mechanistically, in vitro modulation of miR-26a-5p attenuated oncogenic signaling via the β-catenin/c-Myc/EpCAM axis, establishing its role as a tumor suppressor. Notably, in silico analysis of HCC tissues revealed that high miR-26a-5p levels correlate with enhanced antitumor immunity. Leveraging these insights, we constructed a transcriptional signature from miR-26a-5p downstream candidates and MASLD-HCC differentially expressed genes. This signature effectively stratifies MASLDpatients, discriminating molecular risk groups associated with progression to HCC.Integrating transcriptomic, clinical and experimental data suggests the role of miR-26a-5p, along with the MASLD-HCC gene signature (EpCAM, DTNA, and KPNA2), may serve as an early molecular indicator and mechanistic modulator of hepatocarcinogenesis, warranting further functional investigation.Copyright © 2026 Sorop, Ghionescu, Larisa Ancuța, Croitoru, Coman, Lixandru and Dima.
Bisphenol A (BPA) exposure is associated with gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM); however, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain elusive. This study aimed to identify key genes mediating BPA exposure-related GDM through integrative bioinformatics analysis. We integrated BPA-related targets from multiple databases with GDM-associated genes derived from GeneCards and the GSE103552 dataset. Functional enrichment analysis was performed on the intersecting genes. A protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was constructed, and hub genes were identified using four topological algorithms. Machine learning approaches were employed for feature selection. Immune infiltration was assessed, and core gene expression was validated via reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), additional GEO datasets, and single-cell RNA sequencing data. Thirty-four overlapping genes were identified and found to be enriched in the insulin signaling pathway, the AMPK pathway, and inflammatory responses. Following further screening, five core genes-HSPA8, NR3C1, ITGB1, NOTCH2, and POU5F1-were selected, demonstrating robust diagnostic performance. Immune analysis revealed significant correlations between hub genes and the infiltration levels of immune cells. Consistent expression patterns of ITGB1 and NOTCH2 were validated across additional GEO datasets. RT-qPCR confirmed the downregulation of HSPA8 and the upregulation of NR3C1 and NOTCH2 in GDM. Single-cell analysis corroborated cell-type-specific expression within the placenta. This study elucidates potential molecular links between BPA exposure and GDM, highlighting immune-metabolic dysregulation. The identified core genes may serve as biomarkers or therapeutic targets, thereby advancing precision environmental health strategies for pregnancy.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Society for Reproductive Investigation.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42539513 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42516635 is a review article
Background: Depression is a severe disorder associated with hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis dysregulation and neuroinflammation, and which restrains the efficacy of conventional antidepressants. Vortioxetine is a multimodal antidepressant with potential immunomodulatory properties. Glycyrrhizic acid (GA) is a natural compound derived from licorice root that exhibits anti-inflammatory activity and modulates glucocorticoid signaling. We hypothesized that a supramolecular complex of vortioxetine with GA (Vort:Na2GA) would exert synergistic effects on inflammatory and glucocorticoid pathways. Methods: Vortioxetine compositions with Na2GA were prepared using a mechanochemical method. Cytotoxicity, anti-inflammatory property, and glucocorticoid receptor (GR) signaling pathway modulation of the complex were evaluated in vitro using SIM-A9 microglial cells. Additionally, a 7-day oral administration study in intact female C57BL/6 mice was conducted to evaluate the effects on peripheral blood cells. Results: The Vort:Na2GA complex improves the solubility of the parent drug while increasing its stability and permeability. Furthermore, the resulting complex exhibits reduced cytotoxicity, particularly under glucocorticoid challenge. In SIM-A9 microglial cells, the Vort:Na2GA complex upregulated expression of Nr3c1 and Nr1d1 genes without activating canonical GR target genes (Fkbp5 and Gilz) and partially reversed dexamethasone-induced glucocorticoid resistance. In vivo, the complex reduced the percentage of inflammatory Ly6Chigh monocytes and preserved dexamethasone-induced Gilz expression in peripheral blood cells, indicating protection against stress-induced glucocorticoid resistance. Conclusions: The Vort:Na2GA supramolecular complex enhances the physicochemical and pharmacological profile of vortioxetine, reduces inflammation-associated myeloid cell populations, and preserves glucocorticoid sensitivity. These findings support its further evaluation as a potential therapeutic agent for depressive disorders with inflammatory and HPA axis-related components.
Background: The glucocorticoid receptor NR3C1 exhibits antiepileptic properties, but the mechanisms governing its stability during epileptogenesis remain elusive. This study investigated whether the E3 ubiquitin ligase TRIM8 regulates neuronal hyperexcitability and epileptic activity by modulating NR3C1. Methods: We established an in vivo epilepsy model via intrahippocampal kainic acid (KA) injection and an in vitro epileptiform model using Mg2+-free artificial cerebrospinal fluid in primary hippocampal neurons. The roles of TRIM8 and NR3C1 were assessed using in vivo and in vitro gain- and loss-of-function approaches, alongside co-immunoprecipitation, Western blotting, immunofluorescence and whole-cell patch-clamp recording. Results: TRIM8 is significantly upregulated in hippocampal and temporal lobe neurons in epileptic mice. TRIM8 was markedly upregulated in the hippocampal neurons of epileptic mice, inversely correlating with NR3C1 levels. Mechanistically, TRIM8 interacted with NR3C1, promoting its polyubiquitination and proteasomal degradation. This TRIM8-mediated NR3C1 reduction enhanced the phosphorylation of AMPA receptor (AMPAR) subunits GluR1 (Ser831) and GluR2 (Ser880) without affecting total receptor expression. In vitro, TRIM8 overexpression exacerbated calcium dysregulation, neuronal injury, and AMPAR phosphorylation; crucially, concurrent NR3C1 overexpression rescued these effects. In vivo, knockdown of TRIM8 significantly reduced seizure frequency, prolonged the latency to the first Stage III seizure, shortened average seizure duration, and decreased total seizure burden in KA-induced epileptic mice. Electrophysiologically, TRIM8 overexpression significantly increased the frequency of spontaneous action potentials and amplitudes of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents under Mg2+-free conditions. Furthermore, in vivo knockdown of TRIM8 attenuated KA-induced seizure severity, restored NR3C1 protein stability, and suppressed aberrant AMPAR phosphorylation in the hippocampus. Triple immunofluorescence staining showed that KA-induced epilepsy increased TRIM8 but decreased NR3C1 immunoreactivity in NeuN+ hippocampal neurons, and TRIM8 knockdown reversed these changes. Conclusions: TRIM8 acts as a critical driver of epileptiform activity by targeting NR3C1 for degradation, thereby disinhibiting AMPAR phosphorylation and enhancing network hyperexcitability. The TRIM8-NR3C1-AMPAR axis emerges as a previously unrecognized molecular pathway in epileptogenesis, highlighting its potential as a promising therapeutic target for epilepsy.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42511878 is a review article
Lactation and mammary involution and remodeling are complex biological processes that require the coordinate expression of thousands of genes. Differential expression analyses comparing lactating and dry goats have revealed extensive changes in the expression of protein-coding and non-coding RNAs in the mammary gland. Here, we hypothesize that lactation and mammary involution/remodeling may also involve changes in the abundance of transcripts differing in exon composition and functional properties. To test this hypothesis, we analyzed the mammary transcriptomes of 5 lactating and 4 dry goats by using a hybrid approach based on the integration of data from short-read Illumina and long-read Nanopore sequencing. After data filtering, we detected 21,598 transcripts derived from 12,300 genes (≈1.7 transcripts per locus) in the goat mammary gland. Among them, we found 14,092 annotated isoforms, 6,291 novel isoforms, and 1,215 novel loci. Around 39.3% of expressed genes generated multiple transcript variants. Overall, the goat mammary transcriptome showed exon skipping as the most frequent splicing event, followed by alternative use of initial exons, intron retention, and variations in 3' and 5' splicing sites. We also observed that a limited number of isoforms accounted for a very substantial fraction of the total expression output of the lactating mammary gland, with the top 10 and top 50 genes representing approximately 66% and 82% of total expression, respectively. This transcriptomic specialization is driven primarily by genes encoding caseins CSN1S1, CSN2, and CSN3, and major whey proteins such as progestagen associated endometrial protein (PAEP), α-lactalbumin (LALBA), and lactophorin (GLYCAM1), which are essential milk nutrients. Finally, differential transcript usage (DTU) analysis comparing lactating and dry goats revealed 443 isoform switches affecting 355 unique genes and 563 transcripts. Besides, 266 and 297 transcripts were upregulated and downregulated in lactating goats, respectively, and 413 DTU, affecting 248 genes, were predicted to have functional consequences. Among these functional consequences, the most important ones were protein domain gain, non-reference domain isoform gain, nonsense-mediated insensitivity and coding transcripts. Several of the genes showing DTU have important roles in lactation, being of particular relevance those encoding epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase, mitochondrial (GPAM), hydroxysteroid 11-β dehydrogenase 1 (HSD11B1), insulin receptor substrate 1 (IRS1), nuclear receptor subfamily 3 group C member 1 (NR3C1), and phosphoinositide-3-kinase regulatory subunit 1 (PIK3R1). Moreover, we also detected DTU for several genes integrated in the mitogen-activated protein kinase and Rho GTPase pathways. In summary, we provide a comprehensive catalog of RNA isoforms expressed in the goat mammary gland and demonstrate that mammary transcript splicing patterns differ substantially between lactating and dry goats.The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. on behalf of the American Dairy Science Association®. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a neurodevelopmental condition characterized by developmentally inappropriate inattention, hyperactivity-impulsivity, increased distractibility and impairments in executive functioning and behavioural self-regulation. Aggressive behaviours and anger dysregulation are frequently observed across a range of psychiatric conditions, including ADHD and disruptive behaviour disorders, and have been hypothesized to reflect, in part, shared biological and genetic mechanisms. In this study, we investigated whether genetic variation in COMT and NR3C1 is associated with aggression-related phenotypes in youth with ADHD, including physical aggression, verbal aggression and hostility/resentment.The case group comprised 69 children and adolescents with ADHD and comorbid aggression, and the control group comprised 111 children and adolescents with ADHD without comorbid aggression. Parents completed a sociodemographic form, the LEVEL 2-Anger Scale (ages 6-17), and the Turgay DSM-IV Disruptive Behaviour Disorders Rating Scale. To evaluate psychiatric comorbidity and cognitive functioning, participants were assessed using the Schedule for Affective Disorders and Schizophrenia for School-Age Children-Present and Lifetime Version and the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Revised. Peripheral blood samples were obtained and analysed for COMT and NR3C1 genotype and allele frequencies.Hostility/resentment was significantly associated with COMT genotypes (p = 0.037) and COMT allele distribution (p = 0.015). In addition, the presence of aggression was significantly associated with COMT allele distribution (p = 0.024). However, these statistically significant findings were no longer significant after advanced statistical analysis. In addition, no statistically significant associations were observed between NR3C1 variation and any aggression phenotype or hostility/resentment.These findings suggest that COMT-related genetic variation may be associated with aggression-related features in youth with ADHD, whereas no such association was observed for both COMT and NR3C1 in this sample with advanced statistical analysis. Further studies with larger samples and more refined phenotyping are warranted to clarify the genetic architecture underlying aggression in ADHD.© 2026 International Society for Developmental Neuroscience.
Glucocorticoid resistance syndrome (GRS) is a rare hereditary disorder caused by pathogenic variants in NR3C1, characterized by marked phenotypic heterogeneity and frequent misdiagnosis as primary aldosteronism or subclinical Cushing's syndrome. We report a family harboring a novel NR3C1 frameshift variant and provide an integrated characterization of its clinical and biochemical features. By combining structural prediction, tissue- and single-cell-level expression analyses, in silico virtual gene perturbation, and systematic literature review, we evaluated the potential functional impact and clinical relevance of this variant. Comprehensive clinical phenotyping, steroid metabolomic profiling, adrenal CT imaging, and segregation analysis were performed in the proband and his father. AlphaFold3 was used to predict the structures of wild-type and mutant GRα proteins. Variant pathogenicity was assessed following ACMG/AMP criteria. Cross-tissue and single-cell expression patterns of NR3C1 were analyzed, and in silico virtual knockout analysis was performed to generate exploratory hypotheses regarding potentially affected biological pathways. A systematic review was conducted to summarize previously reported GRS cases, their variants, and associated phenotypes. Two affected males across successive generations presented with refractory hypertension without Cushingoid features. Steroid profiling demonstrated mild hypercortisolemia with elevated ACTH, marked increases in 11-deoxycorticosterone and 11-deoxycortisol, suppressed renin, and low-to-normal aldosterone, consistent with ACTH-driven accumulation of mineralocorticoid precursors. Sequencing identified a novel NR3C1 frameshift variant, c.923dupG (p.Ala309Serfs*6), absent from population databases and co-segregating with the familial phenotype. Structural prediction indicated premature termination within the N-terminal transactivation domain, supporting loss of the downstream DNA-binding and ligand-binding domains. According to ACMG/AMP criteria, the variant was classified as pathogenic. In silico virtual perturbation analysis suggested that NR3C1 dysfunction may extend beyond a linear defect in glucocorticoid signaling, potentially influencing neuroendocrine communication, extracellular matrix regulation, protein translation, and developmental pathways. Literature review identified 66 reported GRS cases encompassing substantial phenotypic variability, with cardiovascular events documented in some carriers of N-terminal or truncating variants. We describe a novel exon 2 NR3C1 frameshift variant that co-segregates with a characteristic GRS hormonal profile and is supported by clinical, genetic, and structural evidence. This case expands the genotype-phenotype spectrum of NR3C1-related GRS. The potential relationship between N-terminal truncating variants and cardiovascular complications remains hypothesis-generating and requires validation in larger cohorts and functional studies. Our findings underscore the importance of considering NR3C1-related GRS in patients presenting with resistant hypertension accompanied by a distinctive steroid profile.© 2026 The Author(s). American Journal of Medical Genetics Part A published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Radioresistance in prostate cancer demands innovative sensitization strategies. We identified the glucocorticoid receptor nuclear receptor subfamily 3 group C member 1 (NR3C1) as a key negative regulator of radiosensitivity linked to poor prognosis. NR3C1 transcriptionally upregulates the lipid-metabolizing enzyme, acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 4 (ACSL4), thereby enhancing cell proliferation, migration, and radioresistance. High ACSL4 expression sensitizes cells to ferroptosis inducers that amplify lipid peroxidation and restore radiosensitivity. Using the clinically applicable ferroptosis inducer, dihydroartemisinin (DHA), we found that DHA synergizes with ACSL4 to trigger ferroptosis, sensitizing radioresistant cells and xenografts to radiation. This effect was characterized by elevated lipid peroxidation and was reversed by the ferroptosis inhibitor deferoxamine. Collectively, our study revealed that the NR3C1-ACSL4 axis regulates lipid peroxidation and promotes radioresistance. Targeting this axis with DHA and using ACSL4 as a biomarker represents a promising preclinical strategy to overcome radioresistance in prostate cancer, pending further clinical validation.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Science published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.
Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) have transformed the therapeutic landscape of advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), yet ~50% of lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) patients exhibit primary or acquired resistance, underscoring the urgent need for predictive biomarkers. Hypoxia and metabolic reprogramming (HMR) are intertwined oncogenic hallmarks that reshape the tumor microenvironment (TME) and drive immune evasion, representing promising targets for signature development. Herein, we constructed an integrated HMR gene signature to predict clinical outcomes and therapeutic vulnerabilities in LUAD.Transcriptomic data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) were analyzed. Hypoxia and energy metabolism pathways were scored via single-sample gene set enrichment analysis (ssGSEA), and subtypes were stratified. A 9-gene prognostic model was constructed using least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression and validated across cohorts. Single-cell RNA (scRNA) data and in-house experimental validation explored associations between gene expression, immune microenvironment, and treatment outcomes.We developed a 9-gene HMR signature (RHOV, CYP4B1, KRT6A, TNS4, HMGA2, FIGF, SFTPB, TMPRSS11E, GRIA1) incorporating hypoxia and energy metabolism pathway activity. This signature robustly stratified patients into high- and low-risk groups with distinct overall survival [OS; hazard ratio (HR) =2.24, P<0.001]. High-risk patients exhibited enhanced immune evasion, characterized by elevated Tumor Immune Dysfunction and Exclusion (TIDE) scores (P<0.001) and a suppressed antitumor immune landscape, whereas distinct immune checkpoint expression patterns and subtype-specific drug sensitivities were observed between risk groups. scRNA sequencing revealed RHOV and TNS4 co-expressed with exhaustion markers (e.g., FOXP3, BTLA) and were enriched in non-major pathological response (non-MPR) patients. Validation in 39 ICI-treated NSCLC patients via quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and immunofluorescence (IF) confirmed that RHOV+ regulatory T cells and TNS4+ exhausted T cells were more abundant in poor responders.Overall, our integrated HMR signature exhibits robust prognostic and predictive value, unravels TME-driven ICI resistance mechanisms, and identifies subtype-specific therapeutic vulnerabilities. This tool has potential for clinical application, as it links HMR to clinical outcomes and provides novel insights to guide precision treatment strategies for LUAD patients.© AME Publishing Company.
Schizophrenia is a complex mental disorder with an estimated heritability of 80%, yet its underlying pathophysiology remains poorly understood. Emerging evidence implicates the α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) glutamate receptor-a key player in fast excitatory synaptic transmission, encoded by Glutamate Ionotropic Receptor AMPA Type Subunits 1-4 (GRIA1-4)-in the disorder's pathophysiology. However, findings from postmortem brain samples regarding GRIA1-4 expression have been inconsistent. This study aimed to systematically evaluate the differential expression of GRIA1-4 genes in schizophrenia by integrating transcriptomic data from postmortem brain tissue and patient-derived cerebral organoids.We conducted a participant-level meta-analysis of seven postmortem brain sample datasets (n = 295; 151 schizophrenia, 144 controls) and analyzed an independent organoid dataset (n = 16). Expression differences between schizophrenia and control samples were quantified using Hedges' g under a random-effects model, with heterogeneity assessed using the I2 statistic.Our analysis revealed significant downregulation of all four GRIA genes (GRIA1-4) in postmortem brain tissue from individuals with schizophrenia, with the effect concentrated in a subgroup of patients. No substantial heterogeneity was attributable to differences in brain regions or measurement platforms. Consistent downregulation of GRIA1-3 was observed in patient-derived cerebral organoids, which model early neurodevelopmental stages.Our findings highlight AMPA receptor dysfunction as a potential contributor to schizophrenia pathophysiology in a subgroup of patients, consistent with the broader role of glutamatergic signaling disruption in this disorder. The convergent evidence from postmortem brain tissue and developmental models underscores the need for further investigation of GRIA genes as potential biomarkers for patient stratification and as therapeutic targets. While further study is needed to understand the functional consequences of our findings, such insights may inform the development of personalized treatment strategies targeting glutamatergic dysfunction in schizophrenia.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Previous studies indicate that dental anxiety (DA) is associated with increased salivary cortisol and alpha-amylase, biomarkers of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and sympathetic-adrenal-medullary (SAM) activation. However, underlying molecular mechanisms remain unclear. This study aimed to explore whether peripheral blood mRNA expression levels of glucocorticoid receptor (GR), GR transcripts containing exons 1B (GR-1B), glutamate ionotropic receptor AMPA type subunit 1 (GRIA1), oxytocin (OT), oxytocin receptor (OTR), and Poly ADP-Ribose Polymerase 1 (PARP1), together with salivary cortisol and alpha-amylase levels, are associated with dental anxiety.In this cross-sectional study, a total of 30 DA patients and 28 non-DA patients were included. The mRNA expression levels of GR, GR-1B, GRIA1, OT, OTR, and PARP1 in peripheral blood were determined by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction. Salivary cortisol and alpha-amylase concentrations were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.The expression levels of GR-1B mRNA were significantly higher in the DA group than in the non-DA group, whereas GRIA1 and OT mRNA expression levels were lower in the DA group. Concurrently, salivary cortisol and alpha-amylase levels were significantly higher in the DA group.Dental anxiety may be associated with altered stress-related molecular expression and salivary biomarkers. These findings provide preliminary evidence of peripheral molecular and salivary changes associated with dental anxiety and may contribute to understanding its biological correlates.© 2026. The Author(s).
Early-life environment may influence long-term neurodevelopment through epigenetic regulation. Serotonergic and glutamatergic pathways are central to brain development and have been implicated in DNA methylation changes following prenatal adversity. In this study, we examined whether preterm birth (PTB) in birthweight-discordant twins is associated with differential DNA methylation in the serotonin receptor signaling pathway and the glutamatergic synapse pathway in adult twins.Genome-wide DNA methylation data were obtained from whole blood samples of 288 individuals (144 monozygotic birthweight-discordant twin pairs), including a younger cohort (140 individuals; mean age 33 years) and an older cohort (148 individuals; mean age 63 years). DNA methylation was measured using the Illumina HumanMethylation450 BeadChip. Linear models were fitted for association testing, adjusting for leukocyte composition and twin pair correlation. Pathway-level differential methylation was assessed using Rotation Gene Set Testing.In the glutamatergic synapse pathway, no consistent directional enrichment of hypo- or hypermethylation was observed. However, gene-level analyses identified consistent hypomethylation of GRIA2 and GRIA4 across cohorts. In the serotonin receptor signaling pathway, the young cohort exhibited a mixed methylation pattern, whereas the old cohort showed significant enrichment of hypermethylation. At the gene level, HTR1A was hypomethylated in the young cohort but hypermethylated in the old cohort, indicating a cohort-dependent effect in the methylation patterns.These findings suggest that PTB is associated with long-term epigenetic variation in neurodevelopmentally relevant pathways, as reflected in blood cells. The results further indicate distinct methylation architectures across pathways, with more consistent pathway-level signals in the serotonergic system and more localized gene-level effects in the glutamatergic pathway.
Brain dysfunction is a primary symptom of Gulf War illness (GWI). The present study investigated the effects of an amorphous formula of curcumin (CUR) and α-glycosyl isoquercitrin (AGIQ) on neurobehaviors and adult neurogenesis and following synaptic plasticity of produced neurons in the hippocampal dentate gyrus (DG) in a rat GWI model. Ten-week-old rats received GWI-related chemicals and restraint stress for 28 days; thereafter, animals were fed either a diet without supplement or mixed with 0.1% CUR or 0.5% AGIQ for 126 days. GWI treatment adversely affected behavioral endpoints, including novel object recognition, sucrose preference, novelty-suppressed feeding, and contextual fear conditioning. CUR ameliorated all these effects, while AGIQ caused anxiety-like behavior and improved fear extinction learning. GWI treatment downregulated NRF2-KEAP1 pathway-related genes in the DG; both phytochemicals reversed most of these changes. GWI treatment increased CD68+ and CD163+ microglia populations in the DG hilus; both phytochemicals reversed the increase of CD68+ microglia. In the neurogenic niche, GWI treatment decreased GFAP+ neural stem cells but increased DCX+ and PCNA+ cells, decreased hilar SST+ and GAD67+ GABAergic interneurons, and downregulated Pvalb. CUR reversed decreases in GFAP+ cell and SST+ interneuron numbers. Both phytochemicals increased VGLUT1 immunoreactivity, restored the VGLUT1/VGAT ratio, and upregulated Bdnf, Gria1, Gria2, Gria3, Slc17a7, Ptgs2, and Mapk1. AGIQ further increased COX2+ cell numbers and upregulated Grin2a, Grin2b, and Mapk3. In summary, both phytochemicals may have exerted antioxidant effects and modulated excitatory/inhibitory balance via glutamatergic signaling in GWI animals; CUR was superior to AGIQ at normalizing aberrant neurobehaviors and neurogenesis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Spastic tetraplegia, thin corpus callosum, and progressive microcephaly (SPATCCM) is a rare autosomal recessive neurodevelopmental disorder linked to biallelic variants in the SLC1A4 gene, which encodes the ASCT1 amino acid transporter critical for neutral amino acid uptake in neurons. While SLC1A4 mutations are well established in SPATCCM, the potential impact of additional genetic factors on disease progression remains unexplored. We report a rare case of an 8-month-old male with severe global developmental delay and progressive microcephaly, identified with whole-exome sequencing to have a novel combination of homozygous SLC1A4 (p.Arg457Trp) and heterozygous APOE (p.Cys130Arg) mutations. Neuroimaging revealed severe hypomyelination and diffuse white matter abnormalities. This is the first reported case of SPATCCM with an APOE variant, implicating a potential interplay between amino acid transport deficiencies and lipid metabolism in brain development.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical Case Reports published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) initiates with subtle neuroimmune alterations that precede overt synaptic loss and neuronal death, yet the early sequence linking Aβ exposure to glial activation remains incompletely understood. To capture early neuroimmune dynamics with greater physiological relevance, we employed primary mixed neuron-glia cultures derived from the hippocampi of postnatal day 1 (P1) mice. Unlike conventional coculture systems, these hippocampal mixed cultures preserve intrinsic neuron-astrocyte-microglia communication and recapitulate key features of the in vivo hippocampal microenvironment. Using this model, we investigated whether cannabidiol (CBD) modulates the initial pathogenic events triggered by Aβ25-35 during a 24h simultaneous cotreatment in cell culture. Aβ exposure induced robust hippocampal glial activation, oxidative stress, and elevated levels of proinflammatory mediators, particularly IL-1β, IL-6, and TNF-α. Notably, hippocampal synaptic and neurogenic markers (5HT1A, Gria1, GRIN1, DCX, PSD-95) remained largely unaltered at this early stage, revealing a temporal dissociation in which glial-driven inflammation precedes synaptic dysfunction. CBD significantly attenuated inflammatory and oxidative responses and prevented Aβ-induced cellular damage, indicating engagement of endocannabinoid-related mechanisms that constrain early hippocampal glial reactivity. Although CBD did not fully normalize all glial alterations, it preserved hippocampal synaptic integrity and halted progression toward neuronal dysfunction. Together, these findings identify early hippocampal glial inflammation as a primary target of CBD and provide mechanistic insight into the temporal sequence linking Aβ exposure to neuroimmune activation. These results highlight early glial responses as a critical window for therapeutic intervention and support cannabinoid-based strategies to modulate the initial stages of Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis.© 2026 Federation of European Neuroscience Societies and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Primary liver cancer (PLC) is a leading cause of global cancer mortality. Yangzheng Xiaoji Decoction (YZXJD), a traditional Chinese medicine based on "Fuzheng Xiaoji" principles, is used as adjunctive PLC therapy, yet its underlying molecular mechanisms require further characterization.Active compounds from 13 herbs were retrieved via the Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology (TCMSP) database (OB ≥ 30%, DL ≥ 0.18). After identifying drug-disease target intersections, a compound-target-disease network was constructed using Cytoscape. PPI, GO, and KEGG analyses were performed. Concurrently, 40 patients with PLC were assigned, in a non-randomized prospective controlled design, to conventional therapy (control, n=20) or conventional therapy plus YZXJD (observation, n=20) for 4 weeks. Biochemical markers (AFP, AST, ALT, ALB, PT) and TCM syndrome scores were evaluated.Network pharmacology identified 195 active compounds and 135 potential therapeutic targets. PPI screening revealed 25 core targets, with GRM5, TRPA1, ADRA1D, GRIA2, and NPY2R showing the highest connectivity. GO analysis yielded 215 enriched terms, while KEGG analysis highlighted 14 pathways, notably neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction and cGMP-PKG signaling. Clinically, both groups showed within-group reductions in AST, ALT, and AFP, but under a Bonferroni-adjusted threshold (P < 0.01) the between-group advantage for the observation group was most clearly evident for prothrombin time (PT), which improved in the observation group while it worsened in the control group. TCM syndrome scores decreased significantly in the observation group (P < 0.001) but worsened in the control group (P = 0.004). The total effective rate was 80.0% in the observation group versus 65.0% in controls (P = 0.048).Network pharmacology suggests that YZXJD may act against PLC through multi-component, multi-pathway mechanisms. In this preliminary, non-randomized observation, the addition of YZXJD was associated with improvements in hepatic function markers, serum AFP, and symptom burden. These findings are hypothesis-generating; the computational predictions and clinical signals require confirmation in adequately powered, randomized, and experimentally validated studies before YZXJD can be recommended for routine integration into PLC management.© 2026 Yang et al.
Papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) is the most common subtype of thyroid cancer; however, indeterminate cytology in fine-needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) and the limited sensitivity of single-mutation-based biomarkers remain important clinical challenges. This study aimed to identify a robust multi-gene expression signature for diagnostic evaluation and exploratory prognostic assessment of PTC. An integrative bioinformatics framework was applied to TCGA-THCA RNA-sequencing data (505 tumors and 59 normal samples). Differentially expressed genes were subjected to LASSO regression to construct a diagnostic model, which was externally validated in two independent GEO cohorts (GSE33630 and GSE60542). A seven-gene signature consisting of four upregulated genes (GABRB2, SERINC2, PTCHD4, HAPLN1) and three downregulated genes (SLC6A15, UGT2B11, GRIA1) demonstrated excellent diagnostic performance in the discovery cohort (AUC = 0.995) and remained highly accurate in external validation datasets (AUC = 0.940 and 0.938). Kaplan-Meier analysis showed significant stratification for disease-free interval (p = 0.034), although this association did not remain independent in multivariable analysis. Exploratory analyses suggested potential epigenetic regulation of several genes and distinct patterns in immune microenvironments between risk groups. Overall, these findings reveal a robust seven-gene expression signature with strong diagnostic capacity and potential prognostic relevance in PTC, highlighting its value for molecular characterization. However, further biological validation and prospective evaluation in clinically relevant cohorts are required before translational applicability can be established.© 2026. The Author(s).
Pregabalin, a typical representative of pharmaceuticals and personal care products (PPCPs), has seen its environmental residue issue become increasingly prominent due to its widespread and high-volume clinical use. While its potential neurotoxic risks have attracted attention, the specific mechanisms underlying its induction of neurotoxicity have not yet been fully elucidated. This study investigated the neurotoxic effects of pregabalin using a zebrafish model: first, it predicted the potential mechanisms and key targets of pregabalin-induced neurotoxicity utilizing network toxicology techniques, followed by verification via experimental methods such as reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR). The results showed that pregabalin exposure binds to key receptors such as GRIA2, interferes with the glutamatergic synaptic pathway, thereby triggering neuronal apoptosis, and ultimately leading to neurodevelopmental impairment in zebrafish larvae - specifically a significant 8.8% reduction in neural axon length, accompanied by abnormal motor behavior, namely a significant 33.3% decrease in movement distance and a 33.4% decrease in movement speed, respectively. These findings not only provide key experimental evidence for the in-depth analysis of the neurotoxic effects and molecular mechanisms of environmental pregabalin exposure but also offer theoretical support for the systematic assessment of its eco-neurotoxic risks to ecosystems.© 2026. The Author(s).
Bioreduction of Cr(VI) by Shewanella through extracellular electron transmission (EET) attracts increasing interest due to cytochrome c (cyts c) system especially conductive flagella ("nanowire") structure. The responses of bioreduction efficiency, "nanowire" growth, cyts c synthesis, and e (electron) transmission intensity through CymA→MtrA→MtrB→MtrC→OmcA (Route 1) and CymA→NapA→NapB (Route 2) to iron ion (Fe3 +) and nitrate (NO3-) were evaluated. Results showed that Fe3+ and NO3- of 1-1.5 mM significantly (p < 0.01) enhanced bioreduction of Cr(VI) from 67% to 82% and 79%, respectively with promoted cyts c-mediated conductivity (Cp). Both Fe3+ and NO3- stimulated the growth of "nanowire" and synthesis of cyts c participating in EET with Fe3+ showing stronger stimulation on Routes 1 while NO3- on Routes 2. The genes expression of cyts c on inner membrane (CymA), periplasmic space (NapA/NapB), and "nanowire" (MtrA/MtrB/MtrC, OmcA) show synchronous responses to Fe3+ and NO3-. However, contents of mobile cyts c in extracellular polymeric substances (EPS) and structural cyts c in cell membrane showed inconsistent responses to Fe3+ and NO3-. Overall, this study illustrated the regulation mechanism of e acceptors on cyts c- electron transmission system of Shewanella, which help improving the electrochemical efficiency on Shewanella and provide novel idea in chromium remediation strategy.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Excessive nitrogen (N) loading in drinking-water reservoirs accelerates eutrophication and threatens water safety, yet aerobic denitrification (AD) in oxygenated, low-C/N waters is limited by insufficient electron donors and poor biofilm retention. Here, an immobilized, aerated, upflow fixed-bed bioreactor was developed for reservoir side-stream treatment using nZVI@SiO2-modified porous polyurethane (PU) sponges as a slow-release inorganic electron donor and biofilm carrier for aerobic denitrifying bacteria (ADB). At a hydraulic retention time (HRT) of 8 h and C/N ratio of 3.0, the reactor achieved 83.4% NO3--N and 55.7% total nitrogen (TN) removal. Under severe carbon limitation (C/N = 1.5), performance was sustained through electron-balance contributions of 11.06% from nZVI@SiO2 and 6.74% from ADB-associated biological enhancement. Treatment of real reservoir water (C/N = 1.1) achieved 33.4% NO3--N and 24.1% TN removal, representing increases of 24.5% and 19.0%, respectively, over the control. Mechanistically, the SiO2 shell moderated nZVI corrosion, sustaining Fe2+ release and potentially generating H2 to replenish reducing equivalents under aerobic, carbon-limited conditions. The interconnected PU pore structure retained microbial biomass, reduced washout, and created localized electron donor-oxygen gradients that promoted denitrification. These conditions increased protein-like extracellular polymeric substances (EPS), enriched denitrifying genera (Acinetobacter, Diaphorobacter, and Hydrogenophaga), and elevated the abundances of NapA, NirS, NirK, and NosZ. Overall, the immobilized nZVI@SiO2-ADB fixed-bed bioreactor provides an effective, low-carbon side-stream pretreatment strategy for nitrogen removal from oligotrophic reservoir water.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Otolithic vestibular receptors encode linear acceleration and head orientation relative to gravity, providing a fundamental reference signal for perception, action, and higher-order cognitive functions. However, the cerebral dynamics of otolithic information processing and their sensitivity to body orientation remain poorly characterized. Here, we used sound-induced vestibular stimulation combined with electroencephalography (EEG) in human participants to characterize vestibular-evoked potentials (vEPs) and to examine how body orientation relative to gravity modulates these responses. Otolithic activation was validated using cervical vestibular-evoked myogenic potentials, confirming activation of otolithic pathways by 105 dB and 500 Hz tone pips. Acoustic stimuli included a novel masked stimulus that reduced auditory perception while preserving vestibular activation. Sound-induced vestibular stimulation elicited reliable short- and middle-latency vEP components. Importantly, middle-latency components Na/Pa (peak latency: 20-30 ms) and N*/P* (41-54 ms) were modulated by body orientation, showing reduced amplitudes in the supine compared with the upright position, but only for otolithic-activating sounds and not for matched auditory control stimuli. This orientation-dependent modulation was stronger for Na/Pa and was specific to otolithic-activating sounds, supporting a vestibular rather than auditory origin and highlighting early integration processes. This pattern suggests that modulation of vEPs primarily reflects context-dependent cerebral processing of otolithic signals rather than peripheral sensory mechanisms. Together, our results establish Na/Pa and N*/P* as reliable cerebral markers of otolithic processing and demonstrate that early cerebral vestibular responses are dynamically shaped by body orientation according to gravity.
Gastric cancer remains a major cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide, highlighting the need for an improved understanding of its molecular mechanisms. Purinergic and glutamatergic signaling pathways, immune checkpoint molecules, and oxidative stress are thought to contribute to tumor biology; however, their combined evaluation in gastric cancer is limited.Gene expression levels of glutamate receptor ionotropic N-Methyl-D-aspartate 2A (GRIN2A), purinergic receptor P2X1 (P2RX1), and programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1/CD274) were analyzed using real-time PCR, while serum protein levels were determined by ELISA. Total antioxidant status (TAS) and total oxidant status (TOS) were also measured to assess systemic oxidative balance.Gene expression analysis revealed an increased expression trend for P2RX1 in the gastric cancer group compared with healthy controls, whereas GRIN2A and CD274 (PD-L1) expression levels showed numerical decreases. Serum concentrations of GRIN2A and PD-L1, as well as TAS and TOS levels, were numerically higher in patients with gastric cancer; however, none of these differences reached statistical significance (p > 0.05). Likewise, serum P2RX1 levels did not differ significantly between groups. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis demonstrated area under the curve (AUC) values close to 0.5 for all evaluated parameters, indicating limited discriminatory and diagnostic performance.These findings suggest that these molecular markers may reflect disease-related biological alterations rather than serve as independent circulating diagnostic biomarkers in gastric cancer.
We aim to elucidate the impact of endometriomas on oocyte developmental competence and identify genetic alterations that may influence ICSI success rates in women of different ages.In this retrospective study, two groups of patients have been analyzed: 108 women with a history of severe endometriosis (stages III and IV), who underwent OPU and ICSI after endometriosis surgery, and a control group, built out of 108 women with no endometriosis history. The Turku Endometriosis Database was used for differential gene expression analysis.The number of aspirated oocytes (endometrioma group: 2.75 ± 0.32 vs. control 10.32 ± 0.54) was significantly (p < 0.0001) lower in patients with endometrioma excision, and the number of generated blastocysts was significantly (p < 0.0001) lower when compared to patients without endometriosis (endometrioma group: 1.09 ± 0.13 vs. control group: 3.76 ± 0.23). Additionally, AMH levels were significantly lower (p < 0.001) in the endometriosis-affected group below the age of 35 years (1.65 ± 0.15) than in the unaffected control group (2.99 ± 0.27) within the same age group. The mRNA expression of the following genes related to oxidative stress was significantly (p < 0.05) upregulated in the endometriosis group compared with healthy controls: DES, P2RX1, FOS, SRF, RASD2, SLITRK3, and TEAD3. Gene Ontology and pathway enrichment analyses demonstrated a significant (p < 0.0001) enrichment of oxidative stress-associated biological processes and signaling pathways, including responses to reactive oxygen species and hypoxia, HIF-1, MAPK, PI3K-Akt, NF-κB, and apoptotic signaling, supporting oxidative stress as a central molecular mechanism underlying the observed transcriptomic alterations.In conclusion, this retrospective study provides a holistic perspective on the impact of endometrioma and its oxidative stress effect on oocyte developmental rates and ICSI outcomes across different age groups.
Febrile seizures (FS), the most common early-childhood neurological emergency, have a poorly understood impact on the maturing glutamatergic system. We present a detailed spatiotemporal analysis of transcriptional dynamics of key glutamatergic components during a critical postnatal window. Using a hyperthermia-induced FS model in rats at postnatal day 10, we measured mRNA levels of ionotropic (NMDA, AMPA) subunits, metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) groups I-III, glutamate transporters (Slc1a1-3), and glutamine synthetase (Glul) across the dorsal/ventral hippocampus, temporal and medial prefrontal cortices at P14, P21, and P50. For selected targets (GluN2A/2B, GluA1/2, EAAT2), protein abundance was analyzed by Western blotting to test how closely transcriptional changes are reflected at the protein level. We identified robust region- and age-specific developmental trajectories for all targets, including the expected maturational shift in NMDA receptor subunits. FS disrupted these programs, causing widespread downregulation of NMDA and AMPA receptor subunits, mGluRs, and astrocytic transporters in the dorsal hippocampus and temporal cortex at P14. Importantly, FS prevented the normal developmental increase in the Grin2a/Grin2b mRNA ratio in the dorsal hippocampus at P21. Notably, protein abundance for selected targets did not mirror transcriptional changes at the examined time points, suggesting post-transcriptional buffering or delayed translation. This mismatch suggests that transcriptional changes may precede detectable proteomic alterations during circuit maturation, although alternative explanations, such as delayed translation or post-translational regulation, cannot be excluded. Our findings identify candidate transcriptional correlates that may contribute to long-term neurocognitive vulnerability, and highlight the potential importance of timing when targeting glutamatergic pathways for neuroprotection.Copyright © 2026 International Brain Research Organization (IBRO). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Recirculating aquaculture systems (RAS) rely heavily on microbial processes to remove harmful nitrogenous compounds such as ammonia and nitrite. Microbial assemblages within these systems also contribute substantially to broader biogeochemical cycling. Gaining a detailed understanding of the functional potential and abundance of microorganisms responsible for nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) transformations is therefore crucial for evaluating nutrient remediation efficiency. In this study, we integrated high-throughput 16S rRNA sequencing with a GeoChip functional gene array to investigate how microbial community dynamics correspond to nutrient fluctuations in full-scale RAS. A suite of multivariate statistical approaches, including ordination and network-based analyses, was applied to characterize shifts in both taxonomic structure and functional gene profiles across operational phases. Our results revealed clear temporal patterns in functional gene abundance. Denitrification-related genes (nosZ, napA, nirK/S) became more prominent toward the later stages of operation, while nitrification genes (amoA/B) were most abundant early in the cycle and declined thereafter. Genes involved in ammonification (ureC) and several P-cycling genes (phnK, phoD, phoX) also increased notably during the final phase. These trends underscore the close relationship between bacterial community succession, species turnover, and nutrient cycling capacity. Overall, the study enhances current understanding of functional microbial dynamics in RAS and provides insights that could guide the development of improved nutrient management and bioremediation strategies for aquaculture systems.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of FEMS.
Cognitive flexibility-the ability to adapt behavior when contingencies change-is impaired in psychiatric disorders involving prefrontal dysfunction. The medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) relies on noradrenergic input from the locus ceruleus (LC), yet the molecular mechanisms enabling this neuromodulatory control remain unclear. Here we show that GluN2A-containing NMDA receptors are required for LC-mPFC regulation of network dynamics and reversal learning in male mice. Optogenetic activation of LC→mPFC projections enhanced reversal learning in wild-type (WT) and heterozygous mice but not in global Grin2a knock-outs, whereas LC inhibition impaired performance only in WT animals. In slices, norepinephrine (NE) and LC stimulation induced gamma and high-frequency oscillations in WT mPFC that were blocked by α2-adrenergic antagonism, but these oscillatory responses were undetectable in Grin2a mutants. Grin2a mutants also exhibited increased LC axonal density and elevated NE transporter expression in the prelimbic cortex, consistent with enhanced noradrenergic clearance capacity. Together, these findings identify GluN2A as a key determinant of LC-prefrontal circuit function supporting cognitive flexibility. They suggest that functional deficits in these mutants should be interpreted within the context of compensatory structural hyperinnervation resulting from global GluN2A deficiency, which may reflect a developmental adaptation rather than acute signaling loss. Furthermore, these results promote α2-adrenergic pathways as potential entry points for restoring prefrontal network coordination.Copyright © 2026 Hosseini et al.
Porcine Sertoli cells (SCs) treated by acute heat stress (HS) (43°C, 0.5 h) have significantly decreased taurine level. Taurine treatment of porcine SCs could promote proliferation, inhibit apoptosis, enhance mitochondrial function and modulate protein profile. However, whether taurine can alleviate damages of porcine SCs caused by acute HS is unknown. We here showed that treatment of porcine SCs using taurine (5.7 μM) for 12 h before acute HS (HS0.5-B12-Taurine) significantly rescued damages induced by acute HS (HS0.5-Control), including cell viability, proliferation, apoptosis, intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels, mitochondrial number, and lactate content. Transcriptome sequencing identified 18 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) (HS0.5-B12-Taurine vs. HS0.5-Control), mainly enriched in Gene Ontology (GO) terms of apoptosis, transmembrane transport, inward rectifier potassium channel activity, and 2 iron/2 sulfur cluster binding. RT-qPCR validated expression of 5 DEGs (GRIA4, KCNJ13, PTER, RAB44 and SLC12A8) and 7 other genes (AFF4, CXCL8, DENND5B, EPM2AIP1, SLC6A6, SSH2 and WNK3), most of them showing change trend consistent with RNA-seq results. Moreover, HDAC5 was confirmed to be significantly reduced in HS0.5-B12-Taurine (Western blotting: P < 0.05; Immunofluorescence: P < 0.01). Collectively, these findings suggest that taurine protects porcine SCs against damages induced by acute HS.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The widespread use of glyphosate, a broad-spectrum organophosphorus herbicide, has raised increasing concern due to its environmental persistence and potential health hazards. However, its high polarity and lack of chromophores make accurate detection challenging. Here, we report a naphthalimide-based fluorescent probe (NAPA-Al3+) for the rapid and sensitive detection of glyphosate. The probe is constructed by coordination between a pyridinamine-modified naphthalimide fluorophore and Al3+ ions, resulting in quenched fluorescence. Upon the introduction of glyphosate, Al3+ preferentially coordinates with glyphosate, releasing the fluorophore and restoring fluorescence. The NAPA-Al3+ probe detects glyphosate rapidly within 5 s and achieves a low detection limit of 57.5 nM, outperforming most reported glyphosate probes. Furthermore, portable test strips incorporating NAPA-Al3+ were fabricated, which display a distinct blue-to-green color change with increasing glyphosate concentration. Smartphone-assisted colorimetric analysis was further applied to achieve real-time, visual, and quantitative detection. This work demonstrates a simple, low-cost, and highly effective strategy for glyphosate monitoring, providing a promising platform for food safety regulation and environmental surveillance.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42534835 is a review article
Opioid use disorder (OUD) remains a critical global health challenge. The nucleus accumbens (NAc), a key region of the brain reward system, plays an essential role in opioid-induced neuroadaptations. Characterizing gene expression alterations in reward-system regions, such as the NAc, is essential for elucidating the molecular mechanisms underlying addiction. In recent years, bioinformatics has emerged as a rapidly advancing field and has played a pivotal role in elucidating molecular mechanisms and in advancing computational biology.This study aimed to characterize transcriptomic changes in the NAc of mice following chronic morphine administration using RNA sequencing and bioinformatic analysis.RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) data from morphine- and saline-treated mice were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus database via the Sequence Read Archive. Following quality control and alignment, differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified using the DESeq2 package in R. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses, as well as protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analyses, were performed to evaluate the functional implications of these genes.Principal component analysis (PCA) revealed distinct transcriptomic profiles between the morphine and control groups. A total of 143 DEGs were identified, including 125 up-regulated and 18 down-regulated genes. Enrichment analyses indicated significant involvement in synaptic signaling, ion transport, and neurodegenerative pathways. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis identified several hub genes, including fgf3 (fibroblast growth factor 3), mki67 (marker of proliferation Ki-67), grin2a/grin2b (glutamate receptor NMDA subunits 2A/2B), gli1 (GLI family zinc finger 1), and ago2 (argonaute RISC catalytic component 2), which are associated with synaptic plasticity, neurogenesis, and epigenetic regulation.Chronic morphine exposure induces widespread gene expression changes in the NAc, engaging pathways associated with synaptic remodeling, neuronal excitability, and addiction-related neuroplasticity. These findings provide a molecular framework for understanding opioid-induced adaptations and identify candidate targets, including N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subunits, fgf3, and ago2, for potential therapeutic intervention. Future studies should functionally validate these targets and evaluate their translational relevance in the context of OUD.Copyright © 2026, Pourmand et al.
Background Cognitive symptoms after SARS-CoV-2 infection, often described as "brain fog," remain difficult to measure objectively and are biologically heterogeneous. DNA methylation may provide a stable, blood-accessible layer of information linking post-COVID immune remodeling, biological aging, and neuropsychiatric vulnerability. We re-analyzed GSE247869, a whole-blood Illumina MethylationEPIC dataset from individuals sampled six months after COVID-19 infection, to identify age-associated methylation signals with translational relevance. The present analysis was designed to characterize age-associated methylation within this post-COVID cohort, not to establish a COVID-19-specific signature or biological age acceleration. Methodology This was a cross-sectional analysis of a single post-COVID cohort, with 94 samples included in the age models and no COVID-19-negative comparator included in the analyzed model. Processed beta values were aligned to metadata, converted to M-values, and modeled at each cytosine-phosphate-guanine (CpG) using ordinary least squares with age and sex as predictors. Differentially methylated positions were corrected by Benjamini-Hochberg false discovery rate (FDR). CpGs were mapped to genes using robust annotation and Illumina manifest fallback. Gene-level signals were integrated using a multi-evidence prioritization score that incorporated statistical strength, effect size, multi-CpG support, direction consistency, known epigenetic-clock membership, and curated pathway membership. Results Within this cohort, the analysis identified 3,467 age-associated CpGs at FDR < 0.05, with an overall hypomethylation bias but focal hypermethylation at canonical aging loci. In total, 11 of 12 reference clock CpGs were recovered, including ELOVL2, FHL2, TRIM59, EDARADD, ASPA, and PDE4C. The strongest exploratory signal was enrichment of glutamatergic/N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) genes, including GRIN1, GRIN2C, GRIN2D, GRM1, GRM5, and SLC17A7. GRIN1 and GRIN2C had high integrated evidence scores and showed age-associated hypermethylation. The prioritized genes mapped interpretively to glutamatergic synapse, calcium signaling, and cAMP signaling pathways, although these complete KEGG pathways were not tested as formal enrichment categories. Conclusions This re-analysis recovered established age-associated CpGs and identified age-associated methylation enrichment near glutamatergic/NMDA genes within this post-COVID cohort. It cannot determine whether these signals are specific to COVID-19 infection, reflect accelerated biological aging, or relate to cognitive symptoms because no COVID-19-negative comparator or symptom-level cognitive phenotyping was included in the present analysis. The glutamatergic finding is hypothesis-generating, particularly because the curated set was small and no independent replication cohort was analyzed. Future longitudinal and case-control studies integrating GRIN1/GRIN2C methylation with cognitive and inflammatory phenotyping are needed. Glutamatergic and calcium-signaling pathways may be evaluated in appropriately designed mechanistic and intervention studies, including but not limited to hypotheses related to the Cheung Glutamatergic Regimen, only after independent validation and careful safety evaluation.Copyright © 2026, Cheung et al.
Total RNA was isolated from sections of healthy testes and Leydig cell tumors of mixed-breed dogs using TMA Master II device. The RNA-seq libraries were sequenced on the Illumina platform. Following differential expression analysis, Gene Ontology (GO), Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG), and Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) were applied with quality control obtained using FastQC and Trimmomatic. This analysis revealed 1500 transcripts, including 982 upregulated and 168 downregulated genes. The results demonstrated that a significant proportion of these differentially expressed genes are directly involved in the control of sex steroid production (CYP11A1, STAR, and 3β-HSD3B1) or tube formation, angiogenesis, and extracellular matrix remodeling in interstitial cells (ESM1, FGG, and VEGFA). Moreover, we identified the upregulation of transcripts responsible for neurotransmitter or neuroendocrine signaling (SLC6A4, GRIN2C, GABRB3) and cholesterol metabolism and its regulation (GPX3, MSMO1, DHCR24). These genes were strongly associated with the phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3K)-Protein Kinase B (Akt) cascade and extracellular matrix interactions, features shared with various malignancies. Alterations in estrogen and relaxin signaling appear to be distinctive, understudied mechanisms specific to canine Leydig cell tumors. Concurrently, downregulated genes (e.g., DMRTC2, SEMA3C, ALOX12) were linked with cell differentiation, signaling and immunoregulatory pathway suppression involved in tumorigenesis. A complex transcriptomic profile of canine Leydig cell tumors was developed, revealing a conserved oncogenic core shared in some aspects with human malignancies alongside unique species-specific alterations. Findings seem to be useful for identifying novel diagnostic biomarkers and targeted therapies in veterinary oncology, establishing canine reproductive tissues as a valuable comparative biomedical model for research in human.
Treatment-induced neuroendocrine prostate cancer (t-NEPC) is the major form of resistance to androgen receptor signaling inhibitors (ARSI) in advanced prostate cancer, characterized by pronounced invasiveness and lineage plasticity. Through in-depth analysis of prostate cancer cohorts, we found that glutamate ionotropic receptor kainate (GRIK) family members, specifically GRIK2 and GRIK5, are highly expressed in neural lineage plastic prostate cancer cells, NEPC patient-derived xenografts (PDX), and NEPC patient samples. Their expression positively correlates with neuroendocrine markers and inversely correlates with androgen receptor (AR) activity. Additionally, functional analyses indicated that AR has a direct transcriptional inhibitory effect on GRIK2 and GRIK5, and the absence of AR signaling leads to the upregulation of GRIK2 and GRIK5. Further RNA sequencing analysis revealed that GRIK5 silencing reprograms the cellular transcriptome, resulting in significant downregulation of AR signaling and fatty acid metabolism, while simultaneously activating immune and inflammatory responses in enzalutamide-resistant prostate cancer cells. In both cell line and NEPC PDX organoid models, loss of GRIK5 impaired proliferation and clonogenic growth. Notably, GRIK5 also contributes to enzalutamide resistance. Pharmacological evaluation revealed that Pan-GRIK antagonists exhibit anti-tumor activity, although the required relatively high concentrations suggest that more potent therapeutic strategies should be developed. Collectively, this study establishes that GRIK family members play critical roles in enzalutamide resistance and NEPC progression, highlighting GRIK signaling as a potential therapeutic target for overcoming lineage plasticity in prostate cancer.
Since the introduction of second-generation antipsychotics, antipsychotics have been increasingly prescribed for children and adolescents, raising concerns about their long-term impact on neurodevelopment. Antipsychotics block dopaminergic and serotonergic receptors, potentially disrupting the maturation of neurocognitive processes, which is a public health concern. Previous studies have reported that adolescent antipsychotic treatment can cause persistent neurocognitive dysfunction in rodents, yet the neurobiological underpinnings remain unknown. To address this, we administered risperidone, a commonly used antipsychotic, to C57BL/6 mice during adolescence (3 to 6 weeks of age) and examined behavioral and neurobiological outcomes nine weeks post-treatment. Risperidone-treated mice exhibited subtle deficits in behavioral correlates of anxiety-like behavior. In vivo, two-photon calcium imaging of cortical neurons revealed a remarkable increase in the amplitude of calcium events with subtle sex-specific changes in the frequency, consistent with increased neuronal excitability. Single-nucleus RNA-sequencing (snRNA-seq) analyses showed widespread reductions in transcripts for voltage-sensitive and inwardly rectifying potassium channels in both pyramidal neurons and interneurons. Additionally, both cell types exhibited reduced Grin2a and Grin2b, as well as scaffolding proteins, indicative of weakened synaptic connectivity between excitatory and inhibitory neurons. Interestingly, we observed sex-dependent differences in the directionality of correlation between certain gene co-expression modules and risperidone treatment. Our results suggest that adolescent risperidone treatment induces lasting transcriptomic and functional changes associated with altered excitatory-inhibitory neuronal interactions that may underline cognitive and behavioral dysregulations.© 2026. The Author(s).
Cognitive decline is common after cancer, but little is known regarding the etiology of this adverse effect, especially in terms of molecular mechanisms.This prospective study obtained brain imaging and cognitive testing from 50 newly diagnosed women with primary breast cancer prior to any cancer treatment and 53 female controls. Participants completed up to seven assessments for a total time span of 9.7 ± 0.92 years. Imaging transcriptomics was used to measure the expression of genes in the brain involved in N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and calcium-mediated neurotransmission.GRIN2A, GRIN2B, and CACNA1C were significantly expressed in gray matter in both groups (R2 ≥ 0.092, p ≤ 0.015). GRIN2A (t = -2.72, p = 0.018) was significantly lower in the cancer group compared to controls across timepoints. GRIN2A declined over time in patients, and this was significantly different compared to controls (χ2 = 9.73, p = 0.005). Cognitive scores were significantly lower in patients compared to controls (p ≤ 0.004). In patients, GRIN2A was significantly associated with cognitive performance over time (p ≤ 0.009).These findings suggest that gene expression involved in neurotransmission is disrupted in the brain among patients with breast cancer and may contribute to cognitive changes. Our results provide novel molecular insights regarding the roles of non-CNS cancer pathology and treatments in the brain related to NMDA signaling and pro-survival/plasticity-related pathways. Our findings also point to potential treatments for cognitive effects of cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
Alpha-lipoic acid (ALA) is a natural compound present in plants, animals, and humans. It provides neuroprotection through its antioxidant action, reducing oxidative stress and inflammation via pathways such as the Nrf-2 signalling pathway. It has shown protective effect against neuronal damage in Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. The traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a major cause of cognitive and motor impairments. TBI primarily initiates a series of secondary injury pathways, with glutamate excitotoxicity being a critical factor in neuronal degeneration. In this study, we investigated the protective effects of ALA on TBI induced by controlled cortical impact (CCI) in the cerebral cortex (CC) and hippocampus (HC) regions of the Wistar rats. TBI parameters were analysed using behavioural assays, including the Barnes maze test (BMT), beam balance test, grip strength, and Y-maze test (YMT). In addition, we measured brain water content, and analyzed histological alterations by light microscopy, microglial changes by the immunofluorescence technique, and ultrastructural changes by the transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Expression of markers of glutaminergic and calcium (Ca2⁺) pathways was analysed by qRT-PCR and western blotting. ALA was administered following TBI induction in rats. It was shown that ALA downregulated S100B and the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subunit 2B (GRIN2B) mRNA expression. However, TBI-dependent alterations in excitatory amino acid transporter (EAAT) expression were downregulated in the CC region of adult rats with TBI. Protein expression of S100B, stromal interaction molecule (STIM), ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase L1 (UCHL1), nuclear factor kappa (NF-ƙB), and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) was increased in the TBI group, as analysed by immunoblotting. Furthermore, expression of Iba1+, a marker of microglial activation, was increased in TBI and mitigated by ALA. Overall, this study helps us understand the role of ALA as a mitigating compound in the TBI-induced rat model.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Clozapine is the preferred treatment for refractory schizophrenia. However, clozapine use is constrained by the risk of clozapine‑induced seizures (CISs). The molecular mechanisms behind CISs are complex and poorly understood. The objective of this study was to identify the core targets and signaling pathways contributing to CISs using network pharmacology and molecular docking. Potential targets for clozapine and seizures were screened using multiple databases, and overlapping targets were identified. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks were constructed using the STRING database and visualized in Cytoscape to identify core targets. Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses of the core targets were performed, and a disease-target-pathway-drug network was constructed. The docking of clozapine with the core targets was evaluated to determine the stability of their interactions. Of the 656 potential targets for clozapine and 1260 targets for seizure, 104 targets overlapped. PPI analysis of the overlapping targets yielded 12 core targets. KEGG pathway enrichment analysis demonstrated that glutamatergic, dopaminergic, and GABAergic synapses may be key pathways mediating CIS. The molecular docking results showed that clozapine had strong binding affinities for the core targets, BDNF, GRIN2B, GRIN2A, and GAD1. Thus, clozapine may interfere with the glutamatergic, dopaminergic, and GABAergic synaptic pathways by modulating BDNF, GRIN2B, GRIN2A, and GAD1. Modulation of these core targets may contribute to excitatory-inhibitory imbalance in the central nervous system, thereby potentially increasing seizure susceptibility. This study provides an integrative perspective on the potential pathophysiology of CIS and suggests directions for future experimental validation and risk intervention strategies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Opioid dependence is a complex disorder influenced by multiple factors, including aging and genetic factors. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain incompletely understood. This in silico study integrated transcriptomic profiling, transcriptomic aging clock modeling, and GWAS analysis of brain samples to investigate molecular mechanisms associated with opioid dependence. One-hundred sixty-one DEGs were identified, including 147 upregulated and 14 downregulated genes in individuals with opioid dependence, which are involved in immune and inflammatory pathways (TNF signaling pathway). Network centrality analysis highlighted CCL2, CD44, THBS1, TIMP1, CD163, IL6, IL1B, and MYC as potential hub genes. FAM174B was downregulated in older individuals with opioid dependence, whereas ZNF256 was upregulated in younger individuals. A transcriptomic aging clock showed moderate predictive performance (r=0.686, MAE=5.16) and revealed significant differences in age-prediction residuals between younger and older groups, suggesting altered age-related transcriptional states in opioid dependence. Two genes (PHYH and LUCAT1) were strongly associated with age-prediction residuals. An analysis of six GWAS studies identified 223 SNP associations, including genome-wide significant variants in ADGRV1, OPRM1, CNIH3, RGMA, GPRIN3, GAPDHP15, SRP72P1, and CTCF-DT genes implicated in neuronal signaling and opioid pharmacology. Together, these findings highlight immune pathways, neuronal signaling, and aging-related molecular processes as key components of opioid dependence.
Histone deacetylases (HDACs) correlate closely with tumor prognosis and serve as therapeutic targets for malignancies. This study aimed to explore esophageal carcinoma (ESCA) therapeutic strategies via identifying histone deacetylation-related prognostic genes. We analyzed The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA)-ESCA and GSE53622 datasets, along with 17 histone deacetylation-related genes (HDRGs). Differentially expressed genes (DEGs1) between tumor and normal TCGA-ESCA samples were identified; DEGs2 linked to HDRGs were screened via unsupervised clustering of TCGA-ESCA tumors. Candidate genes were defined as the intersection of DEGs1 and DEGs2, followed by functional enrichment analysis and regression analyses. TCGA-ESCA samples were stratified into high-/low-risk groups, with model validation. Independent prognostic analysis, gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), immune/gene mutation/drug sensitivity analyses, regulatory network construction, and RT-qPCR validation were performed. The intersection of 3556 DEGs1 and 1622 DEGs2 generated 694 candidates, yielding 7 prognostic genes (UNC13C, MAP7D2, SCARA5 downregulated; SLC35D3, HSPA6, IL31RA, CXCL8 upregulated in tumors). Risk score and pathologic M were independent prognostic factors for nomogram construction, with favorable predictive value. GSEA showed enrichment in pathways like ECM receptor interaction and oxidative phosphorylation; immune correlation, drug sensitivity (e.g., WH.4.023), and RT-qPCR validation of gene expression were confirmed. This study established and verified a novel HDRG-related ESCA prognostic model. The model may serve as a potential tool for risk stratification in ESCA patients and offer new perspectives for exploring the role of histone deacetylation modifications in ESCA progression. However, its clinical translational value, including guiding immunotherapy or targeted drug selection, requires further validation in large-scale prospective studies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Genetic, epigenetic, and transcriptomic analyses have stratified medulloblastoma (MB) into four canonical subgroups of Wingless Type (WNT), Sonic Hedgehog (SHH), and Group 3 and Group 4, with distinct patient profiles and prognoses. Recent classification strategies have also considered combining Group 3 and Group 4 tumors into a Non-WNT/Non-SHH subgroup to account for biological overlap and heterogeneity. Using high-dimensional gene expression data from 487 pediatric and young adult patients and over twenty-one thousand transcripts, this study explores which genes can improve prognostic accuracy for survival while accounting for molecular stratification, histological subtype, key oncogenic drivers (MYC and MYCN amplification), and established clinical covariates, including age group (< 3 vs. 3-21 years) and metastatic status. We then develop a multi-stage framework for identifying prognostic genes and evaluating modern survival modeling strategies. In the first stage, gene screening was performed using Benjamini-Hochberg adjusted Cox regression across false discovery rate (FDR) thresholds from 1% to 6%, with the number of retained genes increasing from 15 at 1% to 146 at 6% FDR. In the second stage, multiple survival models were evaluated, including LASSO, Elastic Net, Ridge regression, SCAD, MCP, PCA-Cox, and Random Survival Forests, using ten-fold cross-validation with the Integrated Brier Score as the primary calibration metric and the concordance index as a secondary discrimination measure. Although Ridge regression achieved the lowest prediction error at higher FDR thresholds, it did not perform variable selection and retained large gene sets, limiting interpretability. In contrast, the 6% FDR Elastic Net model provided an optimal balance between predictive accuracy and model sparsity while reducing the gene set from 146 to 49 genes, yielding an interpretable final multivariable model. Gene-level effects from the final Elastic Net-penalized Cox model revealed a clear prognostic gradient. Genes associated with poorer survival included FKBP4, CSNK2A2, GPC4, GATA3, NPY, LYPD1, CLCA4, and BNC2, which have been implicated in tumor progression, signaling pathways, and immune-related processes, whereas genes associated with improved survival included ZNF774, COX10, FBLIM1, and UNC13C, reflecting roles in cellular regulation and protective biological processes. These findings demonstrate that combining FDR-based screening with Elastic Net-penalized Cox modeling yields a robust, parsimonious, and biologically meaningful prognostic framework for medulloblastoma, achieving strong predictive performance while maintaining interpretability in high-dimensional genomic settings.© 2026. The Author(s).
Antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) were frequently employed in glioma patients, especially those with low-grade glioma (LGG), in which epilepsy manifested in roughly 70-90% of cases. It has been reported that some AEDs can improve the survival of glioma patients. However, the molecular mechanisms of AEDs through which affect LGG prognosis remained unclear. Therefore, this study integrated 105 targets of 10 AEDs, by using machine learning, molecular docking, a retrospective clinical cohort, and in vitro experiments to clarify the biological mechanisms through which AEDs affect LGG prognosis. Our study established a reliable 13-gene AEDs-related LGG prognostic model. Carbamazepine, Oxcarbazepine and Lacosamide were supposed to improve the OS by inhibiting the hazard factor SCN9A. Phenobarbital was supposed to restrict the OS by inhibiting the identified protectors GRIN2C and GRIN3A. Molecular docking visualized the strong affinities between the above drugs and targets. Retrospective cohort further verified our speculation about the effect of the above drugs on the prognosis of LGG. In vitro experiments demonstrated that inhibiting SCN9A, a common targets for most AEDs, could suppress LGG cells malignant behaviors; while the suppression of GRIN2C and GRIN3A enhanced the malignant behaviors of LGG cells. This study provided guidance for individualized AEDs selection for LGG patients, and provide new insights into the potential biological functions and molecular mechanisms of AEDs affecting LGG.© 2026. The Author(s).
Limbic-predominant age-related TDP-43 encephalopathy neuropathologic change is a common proteinopathy in the oldest old that is associated with cognitive decline. Although the genetic basis of limbic-predominant age-related TDP-43 encephalopathy neuropathologic change remains largely unknown, TMEM106B, GRN and APOE loci are frequently implicated. Here, we examined nine previously reported limbic-predominant age-related TDP-43 encephalopathy neuropathologic change risk loci (ARHGEF28, APOE, GRN, KAZN, LHX1, TPCN1, TMEM106B, UNC13C and WWOX) in a population cohort of 262 individuals from the Vantaa 85 + study. We also tested whether Alzheimer's disease polygenic risk score without APOE was associated with limbic-predominant age-related TDP-43 encephalopathy neuropathologic change. Using ordinal logistic regression models, GRN rs5848 (odds ratio = 2.45, 95% confidence interval: 1.71-3.52, adjusted P = 5.75 × 10-6), APOE ε4 dose (odds ratio = 1.73, 95% confidence interval: 1.07-2.80, adjusted P = 0.030) and KAZN rs72643142 (odds ratio = 2.38, 95% confidence interval: 1.38-4.11, adjusted P = 0.0048) were associated with higher limbic-predominant age-related TDP-43 encephalopathy neuropathologic change stage. Additionally, Alzheimer's disease polygenic risk score without APOE was associated with limbic-predominant age-related TDP-43 encephalopathy neuropathologic change after adjusting for age, sex, Alzheimer's disease pathology and APOE ε4 dose (odds ratio = 1.36, 95% confidence interval: 1.06-1.75, adjusted P = 0.027). Our findings contribute to the understanding of limbic-predominant age-related TDP-43 encephalopathy neuropathologic change genetics and suggest shared biological processes between limbic-predominant age-related TDP-43 encephalopathy neuropathologic change and Alzheimer's disease.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Guarantors of Brain.
The central nervous system responds to acute injury with plastic remodeling of its network. However, the temporal and structural dynamics of this response in the denervated dentate gyrus remain poorly understood. Therefore, we examined the transcriptional programs activated after perforant path transection, focusing on the outer molecular layer (OML) and the granule cell layer (GCL).Perforant path transections were performed, and tissue from the denervated OML and GCL was selectively isolated using laser microdissection at 1, 3, 7, 14, and 28 days post-lesion. Whole-genome expression analysis was performed to identify and characterize global transcriptome changes across time and layers.Denervation induced reactive astrogliosis and microgliosis primarily in the OML. Overall enrichment statistics from two complementary approaches highlighted early downregulations of neuroactive ligands, later downregulation of (mainly glutamatergic) neurotransmission factors, and late downregulations of respiratory factors, alongside early upregulations of debris degradation factors, subsequent upregulation of glial and inflammatory factors, and late upregulation of ribosomal translation. Entorhinal afferent loss was reflected by reductions of the axon repellent Sema3e (to 60% in OML), with sustained depletions of the reelin repressor Adamts3 (14% in OML, 33% in GCL) and its presumptive effector Ptpn3 (30% in OML), as well as delayed induction of the SEMA3E/reelin coreceptor Nrp1 (3-fold in OML, 7-fold in GCL). Secondary reductions in the GCL occurred for the CREB repressor Rgs13, Ntng1, and Epha5-Epha6-Epha7. Deficits were found in the OML for glutamatergic signaling factors (Neto1, Cnih2, Dlg2, Gria1, Grm7-Grm8-Grm3, Homer2, Trim32), in the GCL for GABAergic and glycinergic receptors (Gabra2-Gabra1, Gabrb2, Glra2), and overall for neuronal differentiation markers (Calb1, Pvalb, Gad1, Lrrc7, Ano3, Bdnf, Egfr, Igf2r, Nrep, Basp1, Scn1a) and synaptic adhesion mediators (Lingo2, Lrrtm1-Lrrtm3, Adam11-Adam23, Cadm2, Pcdhb16, Flrt3). Presumed compensatory upregulation efforts included postsynaptic and dendritic membrane remodeling by vesicle and actin regulators (Lyn, Gabarap, Cyfip1, Arf4, Arl4c, Rab8b, Cdk5rap2, Tmsb4x) in the OML, versus neurotrophic coreceptors Sorcs3-Sorcs2, axonal Smn1, and the neural progenitor modulator Nup210l in the GCL.These findings identify coordinated and temporally structured transcriptomic programs that reflect injury-induced remodeling in the dentate gyrus and highlight novel molecular mediators of synaptic reorganization, neuroinflammation, metabolic adaptation, and compensatory plasticity following entorhinal denervation.Copyright © 2026 Schlaudraff, Del Turco, Key, Deller and Auburger.
Medulloblastoma is one of the most common malignant pediatric brain tumors. There remain significant challenges in investigating oncogenic mechanisms and evaluating therapeutic efficacy due to the limited available models that accurately reflect tumor heterogeneity. To overcome this limitation, we established 10 patient-derived medulloblastoma organoids (MBOs) that retain the histological characteristics, and cellular diversity of the original tumors. These MBOs demonstrate strong infiltration capabilities, both in vitro through co-culture with human embryonic stem cell-derived cerebral organoids and in vivo following orthotopic or subcutaneous transplantation, establishing a potential platform for investigating interactions within the tumor microenvironment. Using integrated RNA sequencing, whole-exome sequencing, and DNA methylation profiling, we demonstrated that MBOs faithfully preserve the transcriptional, genomic, and epigenetic landscapes of their parental tumors. Single-cell transcriptomic analysis revealed conserved cellular subpopulation between MBOs and primary tumors. Our findings suggest that photoreceptor-related pathways may play an unprecedented role in the pathogenesis of Group 4 medulloblastoma and may be associated with interactions within the tumor microenvironment. Furthermore, we developed a prognostic nomogram based on IMPG2, BNC2, PAPPA2, ITGBL1and UNC13C expression levels in tumor cells to predict survival outcomes. Notably, tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) expanded from patient specimens exhibited significant cytotoxic activity against autologous MBOs co-cultured in vitro and effectively suppressed the growth of subcutaneous MBO xenografts in vivo. These findings demonstrate the potential of TIL-based immunotherapy for medulloblastoma treatment. Collectively, our MBO system faithfully recapitulates critical tumor characteristics and serves as a valuable platform for investigating tumorigenic mechanisms and assessing therapeutic responses. This study not only promotes fundamental biological research but also accelerates clinical translation in medulloblastoma.© The author(s).
Callosal projections connect both cortical hemispheres via the corpus callosum, allowing bilateral integration of sensory information. Callosal axons originate mainly from layer (L)2/3 pyramidal neurons in primary sensory areas and project to homotopic contralateral regions. The projections display a stereotyped layer-specific pattern, targeting distinct dendritic domains of contralateral L2/3 neurons. In mouse somatosensory cortex, such precise innervation emerges in an activity-dependent manner during the second and third postnatal weeks but the molecular determinants are largely unknown. Using in utero electroporation of fluorescent reporters to label axonal and dendritic arbors of L2/3 neurons through postnatal development, we show that loss-of-function of Grin3a (gene encoding the nonconventional NMDA receptor GluN3A subunit) disrupts region- and layer-specific contralateral targeting by callosal axons without affecting early axonal navigation or midline crossing. Rather than concentrating at the border between primary/secondary somatosensory cortex (S1/S2), callosal axons in male and female GluN3A knockout mice form a second column laterally in S2. Within the S1/S2 border, axonal arbors fail to innervate their normal destinations in L1 and outer L2/3 and shift toward inner L2/3 regions. Analysis of dendritic architecture revealed that GluN3A deletion drives proximal bifurcation and premature branching of apical dendrites of L2/3 neurons, with inward expansion of recipient dendritic trees matching callosal axon profiles in Grin3a knockouts. Together with conditional loss of function experiments, our results suggest that the dendritic patterning of postsynaptic L2/3 neurons directs the position of callosal axons within their target fields and implicate GluN3A in the postnatal timing and specificity of this process.Copyright © 2026 the authors.
Prostate cancer resistance to androgen deprivation therapy often involves neuroendocrine transformation. Using single-cell RNA sequencing of transgenic adenocarcinoma of the mouse prostate (TRAMP) mice across pathological stages (early adenocarcinoma to late neuroendocrine prostate cancer [NEPC]), we find an early neuroendocrine-initiating cluster marked by elevated HOXD11, conserved in human NEPC. Genetic suppression of HOXD11 blocks neuroendocrine differentiation and restores androgen receptor (AR) signaling. Mechanistically, HOXD11 directly activates FOXA2 and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) subunits (GRIN1/GRIN3A), pathways upregulated in NEPC and linked to poor prognosis. Pharmacological NMDAR inhibition with memantine suppresses NEPC progression preclinically. Notably, a preliminary clinical observation in one evaluable patient with chemotherapy-failed NEPC shows radiographic regression of primary and metastatic lesions after memantine treatment. These findings establish HOXD11 as a driver of neuroendocrine transformation and support further investigation of memantine as a candidate therapeutic strategy for NEPC.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Chronic exposure to mid-band radiofrequency (RF) electromagnetic fields at 3.5 GHz is increasingly relevant to modern wireless environments; however, its effects on hippocampal circuit stability under non-thermal conditions remain unclear. We investigated whether prolonged 3.5-GHz RF exposure is associated with anxiety-like behavior and hippocampal transcript-level changes consistent with excitatory-inhibitory (E/I) imbalance, and whether thymoquinone (TQ) or taurine (TAU) are associated with modulation of these responses.Adult male Wistar rats (n = 28) were assigned to Sham, RF, RF + TQ (20 mg/kg), or RF + TAU (20 mg/kg) groups (n = 7/group). Animals were exposed to a GSM-like 3.5-GHz RF signal (2 W; 2 h/day; 5 days/week; 10 weeks). Anxiety-like behavior and spatial learning were assessed using the Elevated Plus Maze (EPM) and Morris Water Maze (MWM). Hippocampal gene expression (bdnf, creb1, camk2a, th, tph2, gad1, slc17a7) was quantified by RT-qPCR, and histopathology by H&E staining.Dosimetry indicated whole-body SAR of 0.0383 W/kg and brain gray matter SAR of 0.3411 W/kg. RF exposure was associated with reduced open-arm time in the EPM. Expression of slc17a7 increased in the RF group, suggesting a shift toward excitation. Under RF co-exposure conditions, TQ and TAU were associated with changes in slc17a7 expression and with increases in bdnf, creb1, and camk2a, along with inhibitory and monoaminergic markers. RF-exposed hippocampi showed neuronal degeneration, less pronounced in antioxidant-treated groups.Chronic non-thermal 3.5-GHz RF exposure is associated with anxiety-like behavior and a hippocampal molecular-structural profile consistent with E/I imbalance and tissue stress. TQ and TAU were associated with context-dependent changes under RF co-exposure conditions; however, due to the absence of antioxidant-only control groups, independent effects cannot be determined. These findings suggest that synaptic homeostasis may represent a potential target of prolonged mid-band RF exposure.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42541567 is a review article
This study reports the synthesis of low-defect Prussian blue analogues (PBAs) using a single iron-source method and systematically investigates the influence of atmospheric components, particularly water and oxygen, on their oxidative decomposition. Our findings demonstrate that the oxidative degradation of PBAs is governed synergistically by moisture and oxygen, with ambient humidity identified as the primary factor determining both the extent and kinetics of their decomposition. Notably, a pure oxygen environment by itself does not trigger material degradation, while oxygen markedly accelerates the decomposition only in the presence of moisture. As a result of the oxidation, enhanced Coulombic interaction between sodium ions and cyano groups induces structural modifications in the lattice framework, driving a phase transformation from monoclinic to cubic symmetry, accompanied by changes in its unit cell volume. Furthermore, in high-humidity environments, atmospheric moisture promotes the gradual deintercalation of sodium ions from the Prussian blue framework, resulting in the conversion of sodium-rich Prussian blue to the sodium-deficient form. Concurrently, an increase in lattice defect density leads to partial structural collapse, inducing the release of free ferrocyanide ions, which may subsequently react with the deintercalated sodium ions to form the sodium ferrocyanide impurity phase. We also find that the preferential decomposition of low-spin iron over high-spin iron within the framework leads to a further reduction in its electrochemical capacity. In contrast, potassium Prussian blue exhibits minimal interaction with water molecules and can effectively repel them through steric hindrance. Therefore, partial substitution of sodium with potassium ions is proposed as a viable strategy to enhance the structural stability of the Prussian blue framework, improve the storage performance of sodium Prussian blue (NaPB), and mitigate water ingress. This work offers fundamental insights into the storage characteristics and oxidative degradation mechanisms of PBAs.
Optimal co-fertilization of nitrogen (N) and zinc (Zn) offers a promising approach for promoting the growth of tea plant (Camellia sinensis (L.) O. Kuntze), sustaining stable yield, and improving tea quality. However, the specific roles of rhizosphere microorganisms in mediating the tea yield and quality after N-Zn co-fertilization remain unclear. Here, a field experiment was carried out to assess the influence of N-Zn co-fertilization on the growth of tea plant, as well as the structure and functions of rhizosphere microbial communities in tea plantations. Results showed that N application contributed more to the increment of tea yield than Zn fertilization, whereas Zn supply significantly promoted the synthesis of free amino acids and reduced tea polyphenol contents as well as TP/AA at moderate N level. Zn addition decreased the level of soil NO3--N but increased NH4+-N concentrations at both moderate and high N levels. Soil metagenomic sequencing indicated that Zn supply significantly increased the relative abundances of microbial taxa involved in denitrification, such as Arthrobacter, Bacillus, Terrabacter and Burkholderia, as well as up-regulated the relative abundances of narH, nasA, nasB, napB, nirB, nirD and norB genes at high N level, which are related to some metabolic potential pathways like denitrification and nitrate reductase. Partial least squares path models showed that fertilization initially altered soil properties and enzyme activities, thereby affecting rhizosphere microbial communities and functional gene profiles, which sequentially contributed to the nutrient accumulation in tea plants and ultimately influenced tea yield. Random forest analysis further identified soil properties such as pH, OM, AP, NH4+-N, NO3--N and AZn as the most influential factors affecting tea yield and quality. Overall, our results highlight the relationship between tea yield and quality with rhizosphere microbial communities and functional gene profiles under different N-Zn co-fertilizations. All these findings provide new perspective for nutrient use and management in tea plantations.Copyright © 2026 Lu, Qi, Wang, Sun, Shi, Zhang, Feng, Yang, Song, Dong and Yuan.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42403099 is a review article
Soil N-cycling functional genes are easily modified by environmental changes, but insufficient information is available regarding the response of their elaborate associations to nitrogen (N) enrichment in estuarine marsh ecosystem. In this study, a field experiment with four N enrichment levels (NN, 0.0 g N m-2 yr-1; NL, 37.5 g N m-2 yr-1; NM, 50.0 g N m-2 yr-1; and NH, 100.0 g N m-2 yr-1) was conducted in a typical Cyperus malaccensis marsh in the Min River estuary of southeastern China. After 28 and 40 months of sustained N additions (represented by T28 and T40 periods, respectively), the potential impacts of N enrichment on soil N-cycling functional genes and their associations were investigated by metagenomic sequencing. Results showed that although the composition of functional microbial communities showed causality with N enrichment levels, its variation was primarily driven by N-enriched duration as evidenced by the higher interpretability (64.7%). With prolonged the experiment, the diversity of soil N-cycling microbial communities dropped markedly while their richness showed no statistically significant alteration. Within each sampling period, the relative abundances of functional genes involved in organic N metabolism (ONM, glnB, GDH2 and GLT1), assimilatory nitrate reduction (ANRA, narB, nirA, NR and NIT-6), denitrification (nirS, norC and napB), N fixation (nifK/D, vnfH/K/G and anfG), dissimilatory nitrate reduction (DNRA, nrfA and nirB/D), N transport (nrtC/B) and nitrification (pmoB/C-amoB/C) significantly increased with increasing N additions. Compared with the T28 period, the relative abundances of genes involved in ONM (GDH2 and K00261_gdhA), denitrification (narI and nirS), N fixation (nifD/H and vnf/H/K) and N transport (NRT2 and nrtA/C) elevated significantly at T40 period, while those participated in DNRA (nrfH), nitrification (hao) and anammox (hzsB/C) declined markedly. Under N-enriched conditions, the network complexity of functional genes displayed decreases in the LN and MN treatments, followed by a significant increase in the HN treatment. With prolonged the experiment, the positive correlations among functional genes were weakened and the succession of functional microbial communities was driven in a more functionally specialized direction by a few dominant species. This paper found that sustained N enrichment drove the phased reconstruction of gene networks with a continuous weakening of positive associations among functional genes. The findings can guide the policymaking of targeted N load control and estuarine marsh conservation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Pathogenic UNC13A variants are increasingly recognized in pediatric neurodevelopmental disorders, but epilepsy phenotypes and antiseizure medication (ASM) responses remain poorly characterized. This study aimed to define the epileptic spectrum of UNC13A-related disorders in children and identify effective ASM strategies.We retrospectively analyzed 10 children with pathogenic/likely pathogenic UNC13A variants. Clinical data, seizure phenotypes, electroencephalogram (EEG), brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and ASM outcomes were systematically evaluated.We identified 10 patients, including eight with de novo heterozygous variants and two with biallelic variants. Most missense variants were localized within the critical hinge regions of Munc13-1, with p.Pro814Leu identified as a recurrent variant in three individuals. Six patients (60%) presented with developmental and epileptic encephalopathy, with a median seizure onset of 19 months (range: 5 months-7 years). Focal seizures were the predominant seizure type, and all affected patients experienced status epilepticus. Febrile seizures occurred in half of these patients. While seizures were largely refractory, levetiracetam (LEV) was observed effective in three out of four treated patients. Genotype-phenotype analysis revealed distinct clinical trajectories: biallelic variants resulted in catastrophic early-onset symptoms and early mortality, whereas heterozygous variants were characterized by drug-resistant epilepsy, tremor and ataxia.UNC13A variants represent an underrecognized cause of developmental and epileptic encephalopathy in children, characterized by refractory seizures, a high incidence of status epilepticus, and increased susceptibility to febrile seizures. Preliminary observations noted favorable clinical outcomes in a small subset of patients treated with LEV.Copyright © 2026 British Epilepsy Association. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Common forms of migraine are complex disorders characterized by significant clinical diversity. Their genetic basis has been extensively studied but remains unclear. This study represents the first pilot genome-wide association study (GWAS) integrating a polygenic risk score (PRS) in the Portuguese population, designed to identify migraine susceptibility loci through a case-control study and unravel population-specific variants. Genotyping data was acquired with Applied Biosystems Axiom™ PMDA array, producing 12,035,248 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) post-imputation, providing a comprehensive scope for GWAS analysis. PRS models were created and tested using a k-folds cross-validation framework and the optimal significance threshold was assessed. We detected 12 potential risk loci corresponding to 12 lead SNPs (RP11-204N11.2, CTA-481E9.4/CTA-481E9.3, RAP1A, TIGD4, CADPS2, RP11-46E17.6, RP4-569D19.5, RP11-398K14.1, PCBP1-AS1, TCF15, IL6R and UNC13A). The top three variants (RP11-204N11.2, CTA-481E9.4/CTA-481E9.3 and RAP1A) were also supported by the PRS model. We highlight that several variants present putative biological relevance to migraine pathophysiology, reinforcing the importance of neurotransmitter release, synaptic transmission and the involvement of vascular components in migraine pathophysiology.
To investigate the clinical features, natural course, and genetic landscape of bestrophinopathies.Retrospective case series.A total of 134 patients from 115 families with disease-causing variants in the BEST1 gene.Medical recordings, retinal imaging (color fundus photography, fundus autofluorescence, spectral-domain OCT), and genetic findings were assessed.Ophthalmic characteristics, best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), and BEST1 variants.The 134 recruited patients included 60 patients from 48 families with best vitelliform macular dystrophy (BVMD) and 74 patients from 67 families with autosomal recessive bestrophinopathy (ARB). For the BVMD patients, 58 showed typical vitelliform or atrophic changes, and 2 displayed pattern dystrophy-like or irregular retinal pigment epithelium changes. For the ARB patients, 67 showed common scattered vitelliform lesions, and 5 demonstrated severe retinal detachment. Choroidal neovascularization (CNV) developed in 35.0% of the BVMD and 25.5% of the ARB eyes; these eyes exhibited significantly worse BCVA (P < 0.0001 in BVMD; P = 0.0102 in ARB). For the patients with ARB, 47.3% developed angle-closure glaucoma (ACG) and had worse BCVAs than the patients without ACG (P < 0.0001), with a median age of 32.1 years. In total, 43 patients (21 BVMD and 22 ARB) were followed up with a mean follow-up duration of 4.6 ± 2.3 years (range, 0.6-11.1 years). The mean rates of change in BCVA were 0.01 and 0.04 logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution/year for the patients with BVMD and ARB, respectively. Ninety-two distinct BEST1 variants were detected. The hotspot regions for the 2 diseases were different.Our study delineated broad phenotypes, the natural disease course, and the genetic profile in bestrophinopathies. Patients with either BVMD or ARB showed a slow rate of BCVA decline, especially in the absence of CNV/ACG. These findings may facilitate the implementation of gene therapy in China.The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest in any materials discussed in this article.Copyright © 2025 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Taste perception is a major determinant of food intake and is dynamically modulated by hunger and satiety signals across species. While the peripheral and cortical representations of taste sensory stimuli are well characterized, far less is known about how metabolic state shapes taste processing in subcortical structures such as the brainstem. The rostral nucleus of the solitary tract (rNTS) is the first central relay for gustatory input, yet how fasting remodels transcriptional programs in rNTS neurons remains poorly defined. To address this gap, we performed cell-type-specific bulk nuclear RNA sequencing of molecularly defined excitatory (Vglut2+ ) and inhibitory (Vgat+ ) rNTS neurons. We combined Cre-dependent Sun1-sfGFP nuclear tagging with fluorescence-activated nuclear sorting to profile each population in ad libitum-fed and 24-hour-fasted mice. The two populations were transcriptionally distinct and differed in their baseline complement of hunger- and metabolic-sensing genes. Fasting elicited a transcriptional response that was largely restricted to excitatory, Vglut2+ , rNTS neurons, while the inhibitory population was minimally affected. In excitatory neurons, fasting reduced the expression of Gabrd, the δ subunit of the GABAA receptor that mediates extrasynaptic tonic inhibition, while leaving synaptic GABAA subunits and the glutamatergic or GABAergic neurotransmission machinery unchanged. RNAscope in situ hybridization confirmed Gabrd expression in Vglut2+ rNTS neurons and showed that Gabrd is also expressed in the non-Vglut2+ population; the cell-type specificity of the fasting response therefore reflects differential regulation of a shared gene rather than its restricted expression. Our results identify a cell-type-specific, state-dependent transcriptional signature in which fasting downregulates a mediator of tonic GABAergic inhibition in excitatory rNTS neurons, providing a candidate substrate for the metabolic modulation of taste processing within the brainstem.
Purpose: To describe the morphological and functional features of two patients phenotypically and genotypically diagnosed with Best disease and autosomal dominant drusen (BD-ADD) using multimodal imaging. It is hypothesized that the concurrent presence of pathogenic mutations in both BEST1 and EFEMP1 genes is associated with a phenotype that may exhibit characteristic features of both diseases potentially revealing further additive effects on retinal function or structure. The data are compared with those from a patient with genetically confirmed ADD. Methods: The patients received a full ophthalmological investigation, including fundus autofluorescence (FAF) imaging, spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) and polarization-sensitive optical coherence tomography (PS-OCT). Genetic analysis of DNA samples was performed by targeted whole-exome sequencing. Results: Macular SD-OCT demonstrated a thickened retinal pigment epithelium (RPE)-Bruch's membrane complex corresponding to macular drusen-like deposits in both ADD and BD-ADD cases. In contrast to isolated ADD, BD-ADD showed small hyperautofluorescent dots originating in hyperreflective photoreceptor debris at or above the RPE on FAF imaging. FAF further showed large hyperautofluorescent spots corresponding to sub-RPE drusen in both ADD and BD-ADD. The tissue-specific contrast of PS-OCT imaging allowed identification of the RPE within the macular lesion, structural changes of the subretinal material and incipient scar formation. Genetic analysis identified pathogenic mutations in both the BEST1 and the EFEMP1 gene in both BD-ADD cases. Conclusions: The characteristic morphological and functional features of both diseases are evident in the patients with the BD-ADD dual genotype. The coexistence of two independent autosomal dominant disorders provides an illustrative opportunity to inform our understanding of BEST1- and EFEMP1-mediated retinal disease.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a multifactorial neurodevelopmental disorder with complex molecular etiology. Since genetic causes account for less than 50% of ASD cases, novel approaches are required to overcome the challenges of characterizing genes and molecular pathways linking risk alleles to phenotype. Here we use RNA-sequencing, 3-dimensional protein-centric chromatin conformation (Hi-ChIP), and whole genome DNA methylation sequencing approaches to investigate hippocampal tissue from an ASD mouse model (Cntnap2 knockout [Cntnap2 KO]) to determine if multi-omic data integration improves the resolution of key molecular pathways contributing to the complex ASD phenotype. Each -omic dataset individually identified disruptions in numerous genes and pathways, providing broad ASD-related insights, such as 1) 699 downregulated genes with an enrichment of neuronal ontological terms; 2) unique chromatin interactions in Cntnap2 KO mice; and 3) that most differentially methylated genes (1220/1659) have a neuronal function. The multi-omic data integration reduced the heterogeneity and refined the data to 43 genes with links to ASD (e.g., Zbtb18, Cttnbp2, Gabbr2). A pathways analysis of these 43 genes identified one gene ontological term: regulation of neuronal synaptic plasticity. These findings are consistent with large scale gene expression studies of human ASD postmortem brain tissue, suggesting that multi-omic data integration can be used to achieve a greater resolution of the heterogeneous ASD molecular etiology.© 2026. The Author(s).
Genetic eye diseases (GED) are among the top ten leading causes of global blindness. Ophthalmic genetics has emerged as a dedicated subspecialty, integrating clinical and genetic diagnosis with genetic counseling.We conducted an electronic and physical medical records search for the patients attending the clinics. Clinical data included patient demographics, presenting complaint, physical exam findings, best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), available ophthalmic and diagnostic radiology imaging, and genetic testing results.Electronic medical records of 499 patients were examined; 472 patients were diagnosed with GED. The mean age was 22.7 years. Males represented 57.1% of the patients. The most common diagnosis was isolated retinitis pigmentosa (32.2%), followed by Stargardt disease (11.0%), early-onset severe retinal dystrophy (10.3%), cone dystrophy (7.1%), cone-rod dystrophy (4.7%), autosomal recessive bestrophinopathy (3.6%), and enhanced S-cone syndrome (3.1%). The mean BCVA was 6/48, where 42% exhibited moderate to severe visual impairment, and 24% were classified as blind. Genetic tests were done for 28.8% of the GED patients with a molecular solving rate of 87.5%. Positive cases encompassed 47 genes; the most common were ABCA4 (11.8%), CRB1 (10.1%), BEST1 (8.4%), and NR2E3 (5.9%). Systemic associations were reported by 12.7%. Within this group hearing loss was the most common association encountered (45%), followed by intellectual disability (16.7%), and polydactyly (15%).This study provides a comprehensive overview of the encountered GEDs spectrum. The data are valuable for refining clinical diagnoses, establishing accurate inheritance patterns, informing family planning, and assessing patient eligibility for emerging gene-targeted therapies.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Sensory neurons express extrasynaptic GABAA receptors in their soma and axon, tonically activated by ambient GABA, modulating their excitability. However, the specific glial or neuronal origin of endogenous GABA that modulates this excitability has yet to be identified. We investigated the expression and function of enzymes involved in GABA synthesis via the ornithine-putrescine and glutamic acid pathways, and the effects of inhibiting these enzymes on the compound action potential (cAP) of primary afferent fibers. PCR analysis revealed that the dorsal root ganglia (DRG) express transcripts for ornithine decarboxylase (ODC), monoamine oxidase B (MAOB), diamine oxidase (DAO), and GAD65/67. Immunofluorescence assays confirmed the expression of ODC, MAOB, DAO, and GAT-3 proteins, as well as GABA in satellite glial cells (SGC). In contrast, neurons express DAO and ODC. However, despite the presence of GAD65 and GAD67 mRNAs, their corresponding proteins were not detected. Inhibition of ODC and MAOB, but not DAO or GAD, prevented the accumulation of GABA induced by the GABA transaminase (GABA-T) inhibitor aminooxy acetic acid in SGC cultures. Additionally, the Best1 channel blocker CaCCinh suppressed the K+-induced release of [3H]GABA in DRG and SGC cultures. Blocking GABAA receptors with picrotoxin, inhibiting MAOB, and blocking Best1 all increased cAP. However, allylglycine, a GAD inhibitor, failed to elicit this effect. Likewise, the use of selegiline and CaCCinh on cAP occluded the effects of picrotoxin. These results support that GABA synthesized and released by satellite glial cells activates extrasynaptic GABAA receptors, thereby modulating the excitability of sensory neurons.© 2026 The Author(s). GLIA published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Astrocytes, known for their support roles, are emerging as active participants in synaptic plasticity and cognitive functions. Astrocytes actively regulate synaptic plasticity and memory through dynamic volume transients. Our previous research identified several key molecules, including TREK-1, TRPA1, and Best1 ion channels, as well as the gliotransmitter BDNF, as critical components of astrocytic volume transients. However, the precise mechanisms by which these volume transients influence synaptic plasticity and memory remain poorly understood. In this study, we investigate the roles of TREK-1 and TRPA1 in astrocytic volume dynamics and their downstream effects. Our findings, based on intrinsic optical signal imaging, electrophysiology, and behavioral assays, support a model in which neuronal stimulation induces astrocytic swelling, initiated by K+ uptake through TREK-1 channels and regulated by Ca2+ influx via TRPA1 channels. This swelling is closely associated with short- and long-term potentiation (LTP), and exogenous BDNF restores LTP under conditions of calcium sequestration during astrocytic calcium clamping experiments. Disruption of ion channels associated with astrocytic volume transients leads to significant impairments in spatial memory, as demonstrated by deficits in object-place recognition and passive avoidance tasks. Moreover, these channels contribute to the regulation of synaptic plasticity. These findings implicate astrocytic volume transients and BDNF as pivotal modulators of synaptic plasticity and memory, as well as potential therapeutic targets for addressing memory dysfunctions.© 2026 The Author(s). GLIA published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
To treat patients affected with bestrophinopathies caused by mutations in the BEST1 gene, a recombinant adeno-associated virus vector (OPGx-BEST1 or rAAV2/2-VMD2-BEST1) is being developed. The vector construct includes the human BEST1 cDNA under control of the VMD2/BEST1 promoter and is packaged in an AAV2 capsid. This study evaluated the efficacy and toxicity of OPGx-BEST1 administered by subretinal injection in dogs that were homozygous mutant or compound heterozygotes for 3 naturally occurring mutations in BEST1. Twelve BEST1-mutant dogs were divided into 4 groups of 3 animals each, and they received in their left eye a subretinal injection of 0.15 mL of OPGx-BEST1 at 1 of 3 concentrations (9.5 × 109 vector genome [vg]/mL; 3.0 × 1010 vg/mL; or 3.0 × 1011 vg/mL) of OPGx-BEST1, resulting, respectively, in a low (1.4 × 109 vg), high (4.5 × 109 vg), and highest (4.5 × 1010 vg) dose or vehicle control. The right eyes were not injected. Subretinal injections were well tolerated and were not associated with any systemic or ocular toxicity. Electroretinography showed improved rod- and cone-mediated responses in eyes treated with OPGx-BEST1. Noninvasive retinal imaging by optical coherence tomography showed improved structural integrity with a reduction or prevention of appearance of vitelliform lesions and reversal of microdetachments in the retinal areas treated with OPGx-BEST1. These results support the use of OPGx-BEST1 in clinical studies with patients affected with bestrophinopathies and define the no-observed-adverse-effect level at 4.5 × 1010 vg/eye (0.15 mL, 3.0 × 1011 vg/mL).
Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is an inherited retinal disease (IRD), whereby each affected individual typically harbours pathogenic variants in a single causative gene, yet the disorder exhibits marked genetic heterogeneity, with more than 100 genes reported to underlie RP. Dual-gene defect constellations are rare but may modify disease presentation, complicating diagnosis, prognosis and therapeutic decision-making. This study aimed to characterize the clinical and genetic effects of dual-gene variants in patients with RP as the lead diagnosis.We retrospectively analysed 10 affected individuals and their parents from eight families with confirmed dual-genotype constellations in RP-associated genes. Ophthalmic evaluation included best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), visual fields, multimodal imaging, electroretinography (ERG) and full-field stimulus threshold testing (FST). Genetic analyses comprised whole genome sequencing and targeted segregation studies; for the latter, long-read sequencing was used to clarify cis/trans variant configuration.Genes involved were CEP290, RCBTB1, ABCA4, PDE6A, CRB1, EYS, PRPH2, MYO7A, RS1, USH2A, MT-TL1, RHO and BEST1, in various genotype constellations. Phenotypes ranged from early-onset severe rod-cone dystrophy to late-onset mild RP, largely reflecting gene-specific effects (e.g. EYS > CRB1 > PRPH2) and their interactions. Long-read sequencing revealed ABCA4 variants in cis, explaining asymptomatic carriers and informing gene therapy eligibility. Functional retinal testing highlighted gene-specific patterns, including macular preservation in EYS-driven RP and Best disease-associated macular changes.Dual-gene variant constellations contribute to heterogeneous RP phenotypes. Integrating comprehensive genetic analysis with detailed clinical assessment is critical to define gene-specific contributions, inform prognosis, guide clinical management and determine eligibility for emerging gene-based therapies.© 2026 The Author(s). Acta Ophthalmologica published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica Foundation.
To identify clinical and demographic predictors of genetic testing completion and diagnostic yield among patients with genetic eye disorders (GEDs) at a large US tertiary academic center.A retrospective cohort study.Patients with clinically diagnosed GEDs evaluated at the Wilmer Eye Institute's Genetic Eye Disease Center between 2002 and 2025.Demographic, clinical, and genetic testing data were extracted. Bivariate analyses and multivariable logistic regression identified factors associated with genetic testing completion and molecular diagnosis. Subgroup analyses examined racial disparities between Black, non-Hispanic White, and Other race participants.Proportion of patients completing genetic testing, molecular diagnostic yield, and clinical/demographic predictors of each.Of 1466 participants (median age at presentation 44 years, symptom onset 28 years; median follow-up 6 years), 74% (1088) completed genetic testing, with a likely molecular diagnosis achieved in 62%, inconclusive results in 22%, and no diagnosis in 16%. Genetic testing completion was more likely among younger participants with earlier symptom onset and longer follow-up. Likely molecular diagnosis was more likely in participants with earlier symptom onset, worse visual acuity, male sex, and syndromic or X-linked phenotypes. Black and Other race participants had significantly lower odds of completing genetic testing (Black: odds ratio [95% confidence interval] 0.40 [0.30-0.53]; Other: 0.57 [0.36-0.92]) and receiving a likely molecular diagnosis (Black: 0.37 [0.26-0.51]; Other: 0.58 [0.35-0.98]), and consistently exhibited worse visual acuity at both baseline and follow-up. Notably, among Black and Other race participants, disparities in genetic testing completion and visual outcomes persisted despite equivalent or shorter time from presentation to genetic testing completion, suggesting barriers arise independently of delays in care engagement. We identified 118 causative genes among participants with likely molecular diagnoses, with ABCA4, USH2A, PRPH2, RHO, and BEST1 accounting for 47% of cases.This is the largest single-center GED genetic testing cohort reported in the United States and reveals significant disparities in genetic testing completion and yield by race, age, sex, and disease-level factors. Our findings underscore the need to expand early access to genetic testing, diversify genomic databases, and address systemic barriers to ensure equity in GED diagnosis, clinical trial access, and delivery of emerging therapies.Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found in the Footnotes and Disclosures at the end of this article.© 2026 American Academy of Ophthalmology, Inc. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Missense variants in genes encoding GABAA receptors are involved in the pathophysiology of common and rare epilepsies. Variant effects on channel biophysical function are associated with key clinical characteristics and treatment response. Predicting variant effects is therefore key to improving care for individuals with GABAA receptor-related disorders.We collected data from 505 affected individuals with 272 (likely) pathogenic GABAA receptor missense variants (GABRA1, GABRB2, GABRB3, GABRG2). All variants were evaluated with in-vitro electrophysiology. Variants were annotated with features based on sequence, structure, and phenotype. Model performance was estimated using cross-validation and external validation on a further 197 individuals with 138 (likely) pathogenic variants.Our models enable highly accurate prediction of missense variant effects in GABAA (AU-ROC 0.862-0.946), outperforming state-of-the-art models (AU-ROC 0.495-0.756) and clinical decision-making. Model scores correlated with GABA sensitivity and were consistent with expert-based structure-function hypotheses, supporting plausibility. Predictions on population variants were similar to functionally neutral variants, while cases from ClinVar were similar to GOF/LOF variants. Our model may provide additional evidence for 5-25% of variants in ClinVar. Lastly, we show that we can predict likely clinical characteristics from variant information alone (median Lin similarity 0.754 IQR 0.161).We demonstrate accurate missense variant effect prediction in GABAA receptors with rigorous validation across a large dataset of functionally tested variants. These predictions may facilitate timely diagnosis and precision treatment of individuals with GABAA receptor-related disorders, pending prospective clinical validation. A web interface, precomputed scores, and calibrated score thresholds for all possible variants are openly available.Else Kröner-Fresenius-Stiftung; German Federal Ministry of Research, Technology and Space; German Research Foundation; Medical Faculty University of Tübingen; Lundbeck Foundation; Novo Nordisk Foundation.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42534783 is a review article
Midazolam is a sedative that acts on γ-aminobutyric acid type A receptors, but whether its effects are region-specific, especially in the neocortex, and the mechanisms underlying these effects remain unclear.Using microendoscopic Ca2+ imaging and whole-cell recording in brain slices, we systematically investigated the effects of midazolam on excitatory pyramidal neurons and inhibitory parvalbumin-positive interneurons (PV+) in the mouse auditory cortex (AC) and anterior cingulate cortex (ACC).Midazolam dose-dependently suppressed pyramidal neurons more potently in the AC than in the ACC (Evoked: pyramidal neurons: 0.65 ± 0.30 vs. 1.36 ± 0.34, p < 0.0001; Spontaneous: pyramidal neurons: 1.49 ± 0.48 vs. 2.25 ± 0.42, p = 0.0006). In slices, midazolam reduced the action potential firing of pyramidal neurons in a concentration-dependent manner, with greater sensitivity in the AC. In contrast, PV+ neurons showed little change in intrinsic excitability in either region. Functional assays suggested that midazolam responsiveness was associated with GABRA1 expression, which was higher in AC pyramidal neurons than in those of the ACC (1.77 ± 0.55 vs. 1.01 ± 0.36, p = 0.002), while PV+ neurons showed no significant regional difference in GABRA1 expression.Midazolam suppresses cortical excitatory neurons in a region- and cell-type-dependent manner that is associated with differential expression of GABRA1.© 2026 The Author(s). CNS Neuroscience & Therapeutics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42473914
Dibutyl phthalate (DBP) and dibutyl adipate (DBA) are commonly used plasticizers that may pose risks to aquatic organisms. This study investigated whether DBP and DBA disrupt larval growth through neuroendocrine pathways using zebrafish (Danio rerio) as an in vivo model. Embryos were continuously exposed to DBP or DBA for 96 h, and growth-related morphological, transcriptional, and protein-level endpoints were assessed. DBP significantly reduced larval body length and increased locomotor activity, accompanied by decreased growth hormone (GH), insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1), and gamma-aminobutyric acid-A (GABA) receptor alpha 2 protein levels, as well as marked suppression of gh1, igf1, gad2, gabrb2, and gabrg2 expression. DBA produced qualitatively similar but consistently weaker effects, primarily affecting growth endpoints and selected neuroendocrine markers. Continuous co-exposure with the GABAA receptor antagonist bicuculline or the IGF-1 receptor inhibitor picropodophyllin did not further exacerbate growth inhibition or IGF signaling suppression compared with DBP or DBA exposure alone, revealing a non-additive interaction pattern. These findings suggest that DBP and DBA may impair larval growth through disruption of GABAergic and GH/IGF-related neuroendocrine regulation. Together, the results provide insight into the potential neuroendocrine mechanisms underlying plasticizer-induced developmental toxicity.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Synaptic transmission can be tuned through plasticity mechanisms that regulate synaptic strength, structure, and number. In vivo measurements demonstrate remarkable spine dynamics, with subsets of synapses persisting for months. This correlates with the longevity of certain memories, which can persist for an organism's lifetime. The molecular basis supporting the long-term stability of specific synapses and the long-term durability of memories remains unknown. At the protein level, most proteins persist for a relatively short amount of time before they are degraded and replaced with new molecules. However, recent work has identified a population of proteins, including those present at the synapse, that are exceptionally long-lived. It has been speculated that long-lived proteins (LLPs) could contribute to long-term synapse stability, function, and memory. Here, we used stable isotope labeling in mammals to first identify LLPs in the post synaptic density (PSD) of the hippocampus and subsequently determine if protein turnover rates varied by sex or following learning. We identified synaptic LLPs and found that both sex and experience can regulate synaptic protein turnover rates. We identified sex-dependent changes in protein turnover rates in autism spectrum disorder risk genes, including increased stability of Gabrg2, a GABA-A receptor subunit, in male mice. Furthermore, we observed stabilization of a subset of PSD proteins, such as Shank3, following contextual fear conditioning. We propose that sex- and experience-dependent changes in protein turnover rates could help explain sex-differences in psychiatric risk and aid our understanding of the molecular mechanisms that support learning and memory.
The clinical comorbidity of diabetes mellitus (DM) and gastric cancer (GC) presents a significant healthcare challenge, as these two conditions often synergistically promote disease progression. Although Epimedium is known for its anti-tumor and metabolic regulatory properties, the precise molecular mechanism by which it intervenes in the DM-GC comorbidity remains poorly understood.We integrated transcriptomic datasets of DM and GC to identify common differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Machine learning algorithms, enhanced by SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) analysis, were utilized to isolate core genes within both disease contexts. These candidates were then intersected with the predicted targets of Epimedium. To refine the targets, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) analysis was performed to evaluate cell-specific expression patterns. Additionally, CCK-8, Western blot, and qPCR assays were conducted in human HGC-27 cells to validate the therapeutic efficacy of Epimedium in vitro.Eight common DEGs were identified, leading to the selection of GABRA1 and IGHG1 as primary hub genes. scRNA-seq analysis revealed that IGHG1 was significantly overexpressed in GC tissues compared to normal tissues, particularly within the B-cell population, whereas GABRA1 showed insufficient expression levels for further analysis. In cellular verification, HGC-27 cell viability was significantly inhibited by Epimedium in a dose-dependent manner, with a half-maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50) of 632.3 μg/ml. Furthermore, the expression of IGHG1 was markedly downregulated at both the transcriptional and translational levels following Epimedium treatment.Our findings identify IGHG1 as a critical molecular bridge in the DM-GC comorbidity. Epimedium exerts potent anti-tumor effects by targeting and downregulating IGHG1 expression. This study provides a novel therapeutic strategy and a robust theoretical basis for the treatment of patients suffering from concurrent diabetes and gastric cancer.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Alcohol use disorder (AUD) is influenced by genetic factors that affect key neurobiological systems, including dopaminergic and GABAergic pathways, which regulate neurobehavioral functions and are modulated by brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). Variations in these genes contribute to individual vulnerability to AUD. In this study, we investigated single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and haplotypic associations in GABRA1, GABRA2, and GABRA6, along with the dopaminergic pathway genes DRD2/ANKK1 and BDNF, in a Spanish cohort. Peripheral blood-derived genomic DNA was genotyped, and haplotype analyses were conducted. Individual SNPs in GABRA1, GABRA2, BDNF, and DRD2/ANKK1 showed no significant associations with AUD. In GABRA6, the rs3219151 T allele was more frequent in AUD patients than in controls (57.9% vs. 49.3%; p = 0.03), while the C allele appeared to show a potential protective association. In addition, the GAC haplotype of GABRA6 (rs2197414, rs1992647, rs3219151) was less frequent in AUD than in controls (0.071 vs. 0.122) and showed a protective association (OR = 0.58; 95% CI = 0.34-0.99; p = 0.045). Our findings provide exploratory evidence suggesting that specific genetic variants and haplotypes may contribute to AUD susceptibility and support the relevance of multigenic and haplotypic approaches for exploring the neurobiological mechanisms underlying AUD.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42514192 is a review article
Early childhood exposure to bisphenol A (BPA) is closely associated with autism spectrum disorder (ASD), though the precise molecular mechanisms remain unclear. To investigate this, we employed an integrated computational approach combining network toxicology, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics simulation. Potential targets of BPA and ASD-related genes were collected from multiple databases, identifying 57 overlapping targets. Protein-protein interaction network analysis highlighted 16 core targets among them. Gene Ontology and KEGG pathway enrichment analyses indicated these targets are primarily involved in synaptic transmission, GABAergic signaling, and neuroactive ligand-receptor interactions. Molecular docking demonstrated potential binding between BPA and several core targets, including estrogen receptor 1 (ESR1), gamma-aminobutyric acid type A receptor subunit beta-2 (GABRB2), and amyloid precursor protein (APP), with binding energies below -5 kcal/mol. The stability of the BPA-ESR1 complex was further supported through 100 ns molecular dynamics simulation. These results suggest that BPA may contribute to ASD by disrupting neuroendocrine pathways and synaptic function via interactions with key targets such as ESR1.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a highly heritable neurodevelopmental condition with a well-characterised genetic architecture, yet how ASD-associated genes map onto discrete brain regions remains poorly understood. This study applied a recently validated analysis pipeline (ATLANTE) to discover regions of the human brain enriched for high expression of 234 high-confidence ASD-associated genes. Eleven discrete brain regions were identified, spanning cortical, limbic and cerebellar systems including the anterior orbitofrontal gyrus, cerebellar cortex, flocculonodular lobe, vermis, posterior cingulate cortex, temporo-occipital transitional zone, hippocampal subfields CA1 and CA3, postcentral gyrus, occipital cortex and perirhinal gyrus. Notably, the anterior orbitofrontal gyrus exhibited significant enrichment for syndromic ASD genes, suggesting a core role in the neuropsychiatric features of syndromic presentations. Network and community clustering analyses revealed three major gene communities corresponding to distinct biological processes: synaptic dysfunction in limbic regions, histone modification in cerebellar regions and axonal ion channel regulation in cortical regions. Nodal analysis identified eight high-priority genes with broad relevance across multiple brain regions, including NR3C2, GABRB2 and NBEA. These findings provide a refined neuroanatomical framework for ASD pathophysiology, identify understudied brain regional targets and imply that ASD-associated genes exert primary effects in specific brain regions.© 2026 The Author(s). European Journal of Neuroscience published by Federation of European Neuroscience Societies and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (CP/CPPS), characterized by persistent pain, is significantly associated with sexual dysfunction, yet the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood.This study sought to elucidate the underlying central mechanisms linking autoimmune prostatitis to sexual dysfunction by employing an integrated multi-omics approach in a well-established rodent model.An experimental autoimmune prostatitis (EAP) model was induced by injecting a mixture of rat prostate protein and Freund's adjuvant. Comprehensive assessments were conducted, including histopathological evaluation of prostate and penile tissues via H&E and Masson's trichrome staining, quantification of serum cytokines and neurochemicals using ELISA, functional assessment of erectile capability by measuring intracavernous pressure/mean arterial pressure (ICP/MAP) ratio, and detailed mating behavior analysis. Brain tissues from rats were collected for comprehensive transcriptomic profiling and non-targeted metabolomic analyses.Primary outcomes included brain transcriptomic and metabolomic alterations, mating behavior parameters, erectile function assessed by ICP/MAP measurement, histological changes in prostate and penile tissues, and serum inflammatory cytokine and neurochemical levels.The EAP model demonstrated significant prostatic inflammation, elevated serum pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-8, IL-6, IL-1β), impaired erectile function (reduced ICP/MAP ratio), increased penile fibrosis, and disturbed ejaculatory behavior with shorter ejaculation latency. Serum analyses revealed altered neurochemical levels, including reduced 5-HT and elevated norepinephrine and leptin. Transcriptomic analysis identified 557 differentially expressed genes with enrichment in cGMP-PKG, calcium, oxytocin, RAP1, and MAPK signaling pathways. Besides, metabolomic analysis detected 45 differentially abundant metabolites, including key molecules such as N-acetyl-DL-aspartic acid, aspartic acid, threonine, and the nitric oxide pathway intermediate argininosuccinic acid. Integrated pathway analysis highlighted significant alterations in neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction, GABAergic synapse, and glutathione metabolism pathways. Immunofluorescence validation confirmed substantial downregulation of GABAergic proteins (GABRA5, GAD65, VGAT) in the paraventricular nucleus. Furthermore, integrated multi-omics analysis revealed coordinated alterations between gene expression and metabolic profiles.The identified central GABAergic dysregulation presents a promising therapeutic target for managing CP/CPPS-related sexual dysfunction.The novel application of integrated brain multi-omics represents a key strength, while limited translational applicability to humans remains a constraint.Autoimmune prostatitis induces significant central genetic and metabolic alterations that contribute to sexual dysfunction, providing new mechanistic insights and potential therapeutic avenues for this challenging condition.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The International Society for Sexual Medicine. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Anxiety is a highly prevalent and disabling comorbidity in autism spectrum disorder (ASD), but its neurobiological mechanisms remain poorly understood. The basolateral amygdala (BLA) is critically involved in anxiety processing, yet the synaptic substrates linking ASD gene mutations to BLA dysfunction are not fully defined. Here, we evaluated anxiety-like behaviors in male Shank3b knockout (Shank3b-/-) mice using open field, elevated plus maze, and light-dark transition tests. Molecular alterations in the BLA were assessed by qPCR and Western blotting, and whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were performed to examine synaptic transmission and intrinsic excitability of BLA pyramidal neurons. Shank3b-/- mice exhibited robust anxiety-like behaviors across multiple behavioral paradigms. In the BLA, expression of the GABAA receptor α2 subunit (GABRA2) was significantly reduced, accompanied by decreased levels of NMDA receptor subunits (GluN2A and GluN2B). Electrophysiological recordings revealed a marked reduction in inhibitory synaptic transmission, as evidenced by decreased frequency and amplitude of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents, whereas excitatory transmission remained largely unchanged, resulting in a significantly elevated excitation/inhibition (E/I) ratio. In addition, BLA pyramidal neurons displayed increased intrinsic excitability, characterized by a depolarized resting membrane potential and enhanced action potential firing. Collectively, these findings identify impaired GABAergic transmission associated with reduced GABRA2 expression as a key mechanism underlying E/I imbalance and heightened neuronal excitability in the BLA of Shank3b-deficient mice, which likely contributes to ASD-related anxiety-like behaviors. These results identify GABAA receptor signaling as a promising therapeutic target for pharmacological intervention in ASD-related anxiety.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Cancer cells can acquire neuron-like characteristics ("neural mimicry") to promote progression. However, the role of specific ion channel genes in Papillary Thyroid Carcinoma (PTC) and their clinical significance remains unclear.We included transcriptomic data from 521 PTC patients in the TCGA cohort. A neuron-specific gene set was used to screen for potential targets. We constructed a prognostic model using LASSO logistic regression. To verify the cellular origin of the signature, we performed single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) analysis on the GSE184362 dataset.We established an 8-gene signature involving KCNN4, KCNN1, KCNT2, SNAP25, KCNK16, GABRG1, GABRG2, and GABRB2. The model demonstrated good predictive performance for lymph node metastasis, with an AUC of 0.721 (95% CI 0.677-0.765). Single-cell analysis of seven integrated tumor samples (N = 65,744 cells) confirmed that GABRB2 was specifically enriched in malignant thyrocytes (EPCAM+/KRT18+) at 200-fold higher detection rates than immune cells (20.0% vs. 0.1%, P ≈ 0), supporting tumor-intrinsic neural mimicry. High-risk patients showed immunosuppressive features with altered immune cell infiltration patterns.This study identifies a malignant cell-intrinsic signature for predicting PTC prognosis. Validated by single-cell data, our findings suggest that targeting ion channels may represent a potential therapeutic strategy for modulating neuro-immune interactions in thyroid cancer, pending experimental validation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (EZH2) is a key epigenetic regulator implicated in tumor progression; however, its expression pattern and subcellular localization across different stages of endometrial carcinogenesis remain incompletely characterized. This study evaluated EZH2 expression in two biologically distinct endometrial carcinoma cell lines (Ishikawa and MFE-319) and in archived human endometrial tissues representing proliferative and secretory endometrium, hyperplasia, and Type I and Type II endometrial carcinomas. Histopathological evaluation was performed using hematoxylin and eosin staining. EZH2 expression was assessed by immunocytochemistry and Western blot analysis in the cell lines and by immunohistochemistry in tissue specimens, while apoptosis was evaluated by TUNEL assay in tissue samples. MFE-319 cells demonstrated significantly higher EZH2 expression than Ishikawa cells (H-score: 352.9 ± 78.9 vs. 137.6 ± 31.5, p < 0.0001), and Western blot analysis confirmed the same direction of change. Among tissue specimens, the highest EZH2 immunoreactivity was observed in Type II endometrial carcinoma (366.0 ± 63.7), with significantly higher expression than proliferative endometrium (231.5 ± 59.3), secretory endometrium (190.5 ± 52.4), and hyperplasia without atypia (261.0 ± 56.9), whereas no significant differences were detected among several intermediate histopathological groups. Nuclear localization of EZH2 became more prominent in atypical hyperplasia and carcinoma tissues. Apoptotic indices were significantly higher in both Type I and Type II carcinomas than in normal endometrium and hyperplasia groups, representing an association with increased EZH2 expression rather than evidence of a direct mechanistic relationship. These findings demonstrate that EZH2 expression differs across histopathological categories of endometrial lesions, with the highest expression observed in Type II endometrial carcinoma. The observed predominance of nuclear EZH2 in atypical hyperplasia and carcinoma further supports its association with aggressive tumor biology, although additional functional and clinicopathological studies are required to establish its clinical and biological significance.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
This study aims to investigate the expression and function of DNA methyltransferases (DNMTs) and histone methyltransferase EZH2 in regulating the expression of thyroid-stimulating hormone receptor (TSHR) and fibrotic markers by orbital fibroblasts from Graves' ophthalmopathy (GO) patients.DNMTs mRNA levels were measured in orbital fibroblasts from healthy controls (control orbital fibroblasts), active GO fibroblasts, and inactive GO fibroblasts (iGOFs). TSHR and other fibrotic markers were measured in iGOFs treated with platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF)-BB and decitabine (a DNMT inhibitor) or DZNep (an EZH2 inhibitor) or small interfering RNA by RT-qPCR or Western blotting.DNMT1 and DNMT3A mRNA expressions were significantly higher in active GOFs compared with iGOFs and control orbital fibroblasts. Among all DNMTs, DNMT1 expression was at the highest levels. Upon PDGF-BB stimulation, DNMT1 and DNMT3A mRNA levels in iGOFs were significantly induced. Decitabine significantly inhibited PDGF-BB-induced cell viability and TSHR mRNA levels in iGOFs, whereas DNMT1 silencing partly reduced TSHR protein. Because a positive correlation between DNMT1 and EZH2 expression in iGOF was observed, the regulatory role of EZH2 on TSHR expression was also investigated. DZNep slightly decreased TSHR mRNA expression in iGOFs and iGO orbital tissue, whereas EZH2 silencing partly affects TSHR expression.This study demonstrates that DNMT1 is the major DNMT during the active stage of GO. Moreover, DNMT1 is inducible upon PDGF-BB stimulation in iGOFs, suggesting an important role of PDGF-BB and DNMT1 during an active stage of GO. Our findings also highlighted that the inhibition of DNMT or EZH2 potentially suppressed TSHR mRNA expression, suggesting potential therapies targeting DNMT/EZH2 in controlling GO progression.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42561611 is a review article
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42557096
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42555104
A significant proportion of gastric diffuse large B-cell lymphoma with mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue [DLBCL(MALT)] and without MALT ('pure' DLBCL) can be resolved by Helicobacter pylori eradication (HPE). Gastric MALT lymphoma is an indolent lymphoma derived from memory B cells in the marginal zone. In the present study, we aimed to explore the origin of large cells in HPE-responsive gastric DLBCLs (complete remission after HPE). We investigated gastric lymphoma biopsies from 31 patients with HPE-responsive DLBCLs [15 'pure' DLBCLs, 16 DLBCL(MALT)s]. We used the Hans algorithm (CD10, BCL-6, and MUM1) to define the origins of germinal center B cell (GCB) and non-GCB. To further ascertain the cellular origin, 11 'pure' DLBCLs were examined using an Agilent whole-human genome microarray. Eleven DLBCLs [eight with 'pure' DLBCL and three with DLBCL(MALT)] were also assessed using Lymph2Cx. Specific GCB markers, including BACH2, AID, and BCL2 rearrangement and enhancer of zeste 2 polycomb repressive complex 2 subunit (EZH2) codon 641 mutations, were evaluated in 31 patients with HPE-responsive gastric DLBCLs. According to the Hans algorithm, 53% (8/15) of gastric 'pure' DLBCLs and 50% (8/16) of DLBCL(MALT)s were of the GCB phenotype. Gene expression assays revealed that five of six patients with 'Hans' GCB had GCB genetic signatures, whereas four of five patients with 'Hans' non-GCB had activated B-cell genetic signatures. The Lymph2Cx assay revealed the GCB subtype in seven of eight patients with 'Hans' GCB. The expression patterns of BACH2 (p = 0.005) and AID (p = 0.038) closely correlated with the 'Hans' GCB phenotype. BCL2 rearrangements and EZH2 codon 641 mutations were detected in 44% (7/16) and 13% (2/16) of patients with 'Hans' GCB, respectively. In another cohort of 29 HPE-unresponsive gastric DLBCLs [19 'pure' DLBCLs and 10 DLBCL(MALT)s], we found a close association between the 'Hans' GCB subtype and the GCB subtype as determined by the Agilent whole-human genome microarray and Lymph2Cx in lymphoma cells of these patients. In conclusion, more than half of HPE-responsive large cell lymphoma cases in the stomach were of GCB origin. © 2026 The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.© 2026 The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42552079 is a review article
Myeloid/lymphoid neoplasms with tyrosine kinase fusions are rare but important because many are highly sensitive to targeted therapy. PDGFRB rearrangements are well-established drivers, whereas TPM3 is an exceptionally rare fusion partner.We performed longitudinal analysis of an elderly patient with hypereosinophilia, integrating morphology, cytogenetics, PDGFRB break-apart FISH, whole-transcriptome RNA sequencing, optical genome mapping, targeted myeloid DNA sequencing and exploratory fusion-specific RT-qPCR.A balanced t(1;5)(q21;q33) with PDGFRB rearrangement in 70% of nuclei was identified at diagnosis. RNA sequencing detected an in-frame TPM3 exon 8-PDGFRB exon 11 fusion, and optical genome mapping confirmed the balanced rearrangement. Low-dose imatinib induced durable haematologic and cytogenetic remission of the fusion-driven eosinophilic component. Serial DNA sequencing identified diagnostic ASXL1, EZH2 and low-level SRSF2 abnormalities that persisted during remission, followed by acquisition or expansion of SETBP1, CSF3R, ETNK1 and a distinct SRSF2 variant during late neutrophilic progression, without re-emergence of the PDGFRB rearrangement.TPM3::PDGFRB is a rare but actionable PDGFRB fusion. Durable suppression of the fusion-positive eosinophilic component was followed by a late CNL-like neutrophilic phase. The clonal relationship between these phases remains unresolved. Integrated longitudinal fusion testing and myeloid mutational profiling are therefore essential to characterize disease complexity.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Recurrent mutations in splicing factors (SFs) have been established as crucial drivers of tumorigenesis in several types of blood cancer and are also common in a variety of solid tumors. Mutations change the RNA-binding preferences of SFs, promote global splicing alterations, and often generate erroneous mRNAs that are then degraded by nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD). Consequently, several critical genes linked to hematopoiesis are dysregulated, leading to blood cancer. Although the field has progressed considerably in identifying aberrant genes and affected pathways, effective therapies have not yet emerged. To address this key gap, we instigated a gene-specific targeted strategy by unlocking the regulatory network. As a proof of concept, we scrutinized a tumor suppressor gene, EZH2, which is a bona fide target in SRSF2 mutated cancer. We precisely defined splicing cis-elements in EZH2 transcripts and illustrated the dynamic choreography of regulatory proteins in the entire splicing and NMD catalytic pathways. We then designed antisense oligonucleotides (ASOs) targeting important regulatory sites. Our lead ASO successfully corrects aberrant splicing and NMD, restores the expression and function of EZH2, and partially rescues hematopoietic defects and cellular properties. Our study demonstrates that ASO pharmacology is an actionable strategy for clinical development, challenging the existing paradigms in SF mutated cancers.© 2026 Islam et al.; Published by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42546407 is a review article
Adolescent social isolation is a known risk factor for anxiety and depression related disorders, yet its effects on brain-gut communication and potential sex differences remain unclear. We hypothesised that isolation would heighten anxiety- and depression-related behaviors and consequently impair memory in both sexes. To investigate this we exposed male (M) and female (F) rats to four weeks of social isolation beginning at 3 weeks of age and assessed behavior, brain and gut gene expression and microbiota, in single- (S) or pair-housed (P) animals. Contrary to our hypothesis, the results showed higher novel object recognition memory in socially-isolated females (FS vs FP). No isolation-induced changes in anxiety-related behaviours were detected in either sex. Social isolation in females (FS vs FP) increased expression of hippocampal Grik5 (glutamate receptor/memory/learning), and decreased expression of prefrontal cortex genes: Mbp, Mobp, Plp1 (neuroplasticity), Cnp (neuroprotection) and Tph2 (serotonin synthesis). There was a trend toward lower microbial diversity in socially-isolated females (FS vs FP). Although no behaviour change was detected in isolated males, amygdala c-Fos (neuronal activity) and prefrontal cortex Gabbr1 (inhibitory) expression were decreased. Il6r, Tgfb1, Tlr9 (immune-related) were increased in the colon (MS vs MP). In both sexes, social isolation increased Tph1 expression in the colon (FS vs FP; MS vs MP). These findings indicate sex-specific responses to adolescent social isolation, with females showing enhanced novel object recognition memory performance alongside changes in genes linked to neuroplasticity and memory, while males showed altered brain and gut gene expression linked to brain neuro-activity and gut-immune function.© 2026 The Authors.
Lung cancer has the highest mortality rate globally, yet the effective treatment options remain limited. Although short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) like acetate, propionate, and butyrate are known to modulate immune response and improve the efficacy of cancer therapy, the role of valerate in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) remains unexplored. This study identifies valerate as a biased ligand for GABAB receptor, which specifically binds the GABBR1 subunit, upregulates its expression, and thereby mediates CD8+ T cell anti-tumor immunity in NSCLC. It is demonstrated that GABBR1 overexpression in lung cancer cells suppresses tumor growth both in vitro and in vivo. Single-cell RNA sequencing analysis of public datasets indicates that GABBR1 expression is associated with CXCL13. Mechanically, in vitro and in vivo experiments validate that valerate-induced upregulation of GABBR1 stimulates the secretion of CXCL13, which in turn promotes robust infiltration and activation of CD8+ T cells within the tumor microenvironment. Furthermore, enrichment analysis pinpoints that CXCL13 secretion is negatively transcriptionally regulated by NRF2 and its co-factor ATF4. Analysis of patient samples further confirms that high GABBR1 expression correlates with a longer patient survival rate, underscoring its prognostic value. Overall, these findings identify valerate as a novel immunomodulatory metabolite and propose targeting GABBR1 as a promising strategy to potentiate cancer immunotherapy in lung cancer.© The author(s).
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is a master regulator of neuronal differentiation and inhibitory circuit maturation in the mammalian brain. Yet, its downstream mediators in distinct neuronal populations remain incompletely defined. Here, we identify mitogen- and stress-activated kinase 1 (MSK1) as a critical mediator of BDNF signalling during postnatal striatal development. MSK1 expression predominates in GABAergic neurons across the cortex and striatum, with region-specific dynamics: MSK1 expression in cortical GABAergic interneurons declines from postnatal day 5 (P5) to day 30 (P30), while expression in striatal GABAergic medium spiny neurons (MSNs) persists into adulthood. Using a novel Msk1IV KO mouse model, generated by deleting exon IV of Msk1, we find that striatal volume and MSN dendritic complexity decrease by P60, without cortical neuron alterations, underscoring MSK1´s striatal-specific role. Mechanistically, MSK1 drives BDNF-induced MeCP2 phosphorylation at serine 421 in MSNs via MAPK/ERK, independently of CaMKII, forming a nuclear complex with MeCP2, thus amplifying MSK1´s role in transcriptional regulation. This MSK1-MeCP2 signalling is also involved in BDNF-dependent and independent morphological developmental processes of cultured striatal neurons. Accordingly, Msk1IV KO striatum shows dysregulated GABAergic (Gad1, Gabrg3) and dopaminergic (Drd1, Drd2, Drd3) gene expression, mirroring profiles in MeCP2 deficient models. Behaviourally, Msk1IV KO mice display hypersociability, impaired nest-building, and increased depressive-like behaviour in the forced swimming test, contributing to striatal circuit dysfunction. These findings link MSK1-mediated molecular disruptions to inhibitory circuit imbalances and behaviours reminiscent of psychiatric disorders, positioning MSK1 as a potential therapeutic target for neurodevelopmental and psychiatric disorders, including those associated with MeCP2 dysfunction.© 2026. The Author(s).
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains a major malignancy with high incidence and mortality, in part due to its diverse etiology and intratumoral heterogeneity, which contributes to drug resistance and frequent recurrence. SALL1 (Spalt-Like Transcription Factor 1), a zinc-finger transcription factor, was reported to function as a tumor suppressor in several cancers, including breast cancer and glioma, and accumulating evidence support its involvement in tumor biology. In this study, the role of SALL1 in HCC was examined.Public RNA and protein databases derived from human HCC were interrogated. Western blotting quantification of clinical HCC for SALL1 levels was carried out. Cell culture and xenograft studies were performed using genetically modified HCC tumor cells.As revealed by pubic RNA and protein database analysis and further western blotting quantification of clinical samples of HCC, SALL1 is decreased in human HCC. The effect of reduced SALL1 expression on the tumorigenic properties and transcriptional regulation in HCC was then examined. Knockdown of SALL1 in the HCC cell lines Huh7 and Hep3B, enhanced cell proliferation in vitro and accelerated tumor growth in a xenograft mouse model, suggesting that lower SALL1 expression increases cell proliferation and tumorigenesis in HCC. RNA-seq and ChIP analyses further identified three novel candidate target genes (SLC6A14, GABRG1, and AKR1B10), suggesting that SALL1 may exert a tumor-suppressive effect, at least in part, through negative regulation of these genes.These findings establish SALL1 as a possible tumor suppressor and provide new insights into the biological significance of SALL1 downregulation in HCC. SALL1 could be a candidate prognostic marker and a potential therapeutic target.
Bipolar disorder (BD) is a major mood disorder influenced by both genetic and environmental factors. While DNA methylation from peripheral tissues can reflect both genetic and environmental influences and reveal insights into disease biology, it remains understudied in BD. DNA methylation signatures may complement polygenic scores (PGS) and hold potential as biomarkers. Here, we conducted the largest epigenome-wide association study (EWAS) of BD to date and evaluated the predictive value of polymethylation scores (PMS) in classifying case-control status.DNA methylation from peripheral blood of 1729 cases and 1747 controls, comprising twelve cohorts, was obtained. We performed meta-analyses for the total sample, male-only, and female-only analyses. Differentially methylated regions (DMRs) were identified using the comb-p method. Polymethylation scores for BD (BD-PMS) were tested for association with BD, and in combination with PGS.We identified 47 differentially methylated CpG positions (DMPs) in the total and four in the female-only analysis. Ninety, fourteen and six DMRs were identified in the total sample, female-only, and male-only analyses, respectively. Genes annotated to the top DMPs were enriched for immune activation and phosphorylation pathways. DMRs were annotated to genes relevant to neurotransmission, including GABBR1 and CACNA2D4. BD-PMS explained 2% of the variance in BD case-control status, and improved the variance explained from 7.9 to 8.5% when combined with PGS. For bipolar I disorder, BD-PMS explained 4.9% of the variance, and improved the variance explained by PGS from 15.9 to 18.5%. Association of BD with PMS for schizophrenia and major depression suggests pleiotropic epigenetic effects.DNA methylation signatures of BD are detectable in blood using adequately powered data and may reveal novel BD biology that is not captured by genetic studies. PMS from large cohorts have the potential to facilitate the development of prediction tools to aid clinical decision-making.This investigation was primarily funded by the Research Council of Norway (RCN #250299, #273446, #223273) and the University of Bergen. A complete list of funding organisations is provided in the Acknowledgements.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Alcohol use disorder (AUD) is a chronic and progressive disease that affects individuals worldwide. AUD individuals exhibit epigenetic alterations across tissues, mainly in the brain. Despite advances in the field, there is a gap in epigenome-wide association studies (EWAS) conducted in a Brazilian cohort that is genetically and culturally diverse. This study aimed to describe an exploratory EWAS conducted in Brazilian males with AUD and to identify DNA methylation signatures associated with brain-related biological pathways. Peripheral blood samples were collected from 54 patients with AUD in the early stages of withdrawal (AUD group) and 70 control individuals (CON group) (Brazil, São Paulo). Genome-wide DNA methylation was assessed using the Infinium MethylationEPIC BeadChip v2.0. We identified four differentially methylated loci in genes involved in intracellular signalling and cellular stress responses. Focusing on the nervous system, enrichment analyses revealed pathways related to neuronal/axon development and synaptic organization hypomethylated in the AUD group (p. adjust < 0.05). Differentially methylated regions (DMRs) showed hypomethylation in regulatory and exonic regions of ABAT, DLX5, PHGDH, TRPM2 and GABBR1 genes, which are within the enriched pathways. In conclusion, to the best of our knowledge, this is the first EWAS in a Brazilian cohort with AUD to identify alterations in DNA methylation, highlighting genes and pathways involved in neurogenesis, synaptic and GABAergic signalling. These epigenetic modifications suggest an impact of chronic alcohol consumption on critical biological processes of the CNS, potentially contributing to the cognitive and behavioural impairments observed in AUD. The results reinforce the importance of epigenetic studies in mixed-race populations.© 2026 The Author(s). Addiction Biology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Society for the Study of Addiction.
Neurodegenerative disorders are characterized by imbalances in synaptic signaling, often driven by dysregulation of the γ-aminobutyric acid B receptor 1 (GABBR1). Its dysregulation has been identified as a key pathophysiological mechanism contributing to the synaptic failure and neural network instability observed in major neurodegenerative disorders. Therapeutic strategies that target GABBR1 activation offer a promising approach to restoring excitatory-inhibitory homeostasis in the central nervous system. This study employed an integrated computational workflow to identify potent GABBR1 modulators by repurposing an FDA-approved drug library. Structure-based virtual screening, PASS analysis, and binding site interaction analysis identified Cinacalcet and Trifluperidol as top candidates, exhibiting binding affinities of -10.2 and -9.0 kcal/mol, respectively, which are higher than that of the reference antagonist (-6.0 kcal/mol). Density functional theory calculations confirmed the favorable electronic properties and reactivity for both compounds. The molecular dynamics (MD) simulations of 500 ns validated the structural stability of GBARR1-ligand complexes, revealing that Cinacalcet induces a compact, rigid GABBR1 conformation. MM/PBSA analysis demonstrated robust binding free energies of -21.50 kcal/mol for Cinacalcet and -13.13 kcal/mol for Trifluperidol. These findings suggest that Cinacalcet and Trifluperidol are promising candidates for drug repurposing in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases caused by the dysregulation of GABBR1. This study contributes to public health research and aligns with Sustainable Development Goal 3 (Good Health and Well-being) by supporting the development of novel therapeutic strategies for neurodegenerative diseases.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Alterations of GABAA receptors (GABAARs) following chronic alcohol are thought to be related to deficits in GABAergic signaling in individuals with alcohol use disorder (AUD). Whether those modifications affect the function of synaptic GABAARs is not clear, as the electrophysiological characterization of native synaptic receptors from AUD individuals had not been done. To obtain this information, we microtransplanted synaptic membranes from postmortem dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) samples of AUD and non-AUD subjects to determine functional traits of GABAARs. To follow the path from transcription to function of potential changes of GABAARs in AUD, GABAARs currents and GABA pEC50 values were integrated with RNA-Seq and label-free proteomics datasets of bulk tissue and isolated synaptosomes from the same subjects. Our results outline significant reconfigurations in transcriptomic organization of GABAARs in AUD, higher levels of GABRG1 and significant decrease of mitochondrial transcripts in AUD individuals. Notably, transcriptional differences were gradually lost as the analysis moved from transcription to protein and function within our cohort. This suggests post-translational buffering in AUD resulting in unchanged GABA receptor synaptic activity. Our novel findings establish a proof of concept for reactivating AUD post-synaptic receptors and integrating this information with multiple levels of multi-omic analyses, as well as outline hypothesis-generating insights into this multifaceted disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skeletal muscle loss is associated with cognitive decline, but whether neuroimaging-derived muscle characteristics predict incident dementia remains unclear.We evaluated associations of deep learning-derived temporalis muscle (TM) cross-sectional area (CSA) and radiomic texture features from baseline T1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with incident dementia in dementia-free participants from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) (n = 750) and the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) study (n = 532). TM was segmented using a convolutional neural network trained in ADNI and externally validated in ARIC. Radiomic features were reduced using least absolute shrinkage and selection operator-penalized Cox models to generate a composite score. Multivariable Cox regression adjusted for demographics, apolipoprotein E ε4, baseline cognition, body mass index, and physical performance.Higher TM radiomic scores were associated with increased dementia risk in ADNI (hazard ratio per SD, 1.32) and ARIC (1.64). Smaller TM CSA predicted dementia in ADNI but not ARIC.TM texture patterns from routine brain MRI are associated with dementia risk, supporting TM phenotyping as a scalable marker of systemic biological vulnerability.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42559224 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42556482 is a review article
To investigate the association between apolipoprotein E (APOE) gene polymorphisms and coronary heart disease (CHD) risk within a localized Mongolian clinical cohort.This hospital-based case-control study recruited 63 patients with angiographically confirmed CHD and 61 sex-matched healthy controls. Anthropometric measurements and lipid profiles and pathways for APOE genotypes were strictly assessed. This exploratory hospital-based case-control study was not designed as a nationally representative population-based survey, and participant recruitment was limited to a single tertiary referral center in Mongolia.High-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels were significantly higher in the case group than in the control group (1.56 ± 0.14 vs. 1.33 ± 0.18 mmol/L, P < .001), while total cholesterol was significantly lower in cases than in controls (3.91 ± 0.60 vs. 5.34 ± 0.80 mmol/L, P < .001). The distribution of APOE genotypes (ε2/ε3, ε3/ε3, ε3/ε4, and ε4/ε4) differed significantly between the case and control groups (P = .009). Both systolic and diastolic blood pressure significantly correlated with waist circumference (P = .026). Multivariable logistic regression revealed that the ε2/ε3 genotype was associated with significantly lower odds of disease (odds ratio [OR] = 0.29, P = .007, 95% CI: 0.12-0.71), whereas ε4-related findings were highly imprecise due to sparse genotype counts and lacked statistical significance (OR = 1.07, P = .930, 95% CI: 0.23-5.02).This study showed a significant association between the APOE genotype and CHD in a Mongolian population. These findings highlight the importance of considering qualitative aspects of lipid metabolism, rather than total cholesterol alone, and suggest that genetic factors, including APOE polymorphisms, may contribute to CHD risk independently of absolute cholesterol levels, underscoring the need for population-specific cardiovascular risk assessment.
African Americans (AAs) face a higher risk of Alzheimer's disease and related dementias (ADRD) than European Americans (EUs), yet the utility of polygenic risk scores (PRS) in AAs remains underexplored.A standardized dementia PRS was evaluated in the Chicago Health and Aging Project (n = 4336; 61% AA) for associations with ADRD and cognitive trajectories over 8.4 years.PRS predicted ADRD more strongly in EUs (c-index 0.86) than AAs (0.77); however, it conferred higher risk in AAs (hazard ratio [HR] = 1.36, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.04-1.78) compared to EU (HR = 1.13, 95% CI: 0.88-1.44). The PRS remained predictive among AAs after apolipoprotein E (APOE) ε4 adjustment (HR = 1.53, 95% CI: 1.03-2.27). Higher PRS associated with lower baseline cognition and faster decline (p < 0.05).PRS conferred greater ADRD risk in AAs and comparable rates of cognitive decline, despite stronger discrimination in EUs, adding to the limited knowledge of genetic contributions to ADRD risk among AAs beyond APOE ε4 alleles.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Although immunotherapy has revolutionized cancer treatment, hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) continues to demonstrate limited clinical responses, highlighting the urgent need for novel immunomodulatory strategies. Trained immunity, an emerging paradigm wherein innate immune cells develop a memory-like phenotype through epigenetic and metabolic reprogramming, offers a promising avenue to remodel the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment. This study investigated whether β-glucan-induced trained immunity could potentiate antitumor immunity against HCC.We established orthotopic HCC mouse models to investigate the role of trained immunity induced by whole β-glucan particle (WGP) in the HCC microenvironment, particularly in modulating hepatic apolipoprotein E (APOE)-positive monocytes/macrophages. Transcriptional changes in trained monocytes/macrophages were identified by analyzing single-cell RNA sequencing and bulk RNA-sequencing data from the livers of WGP-treated and control mice. Mechanistic studies were performed using Apoe -/- mice and in situ monocyte/macrophage engineering. Flow cytometry was performed to assess immune cell phenotypes and phagocytosis, while luminescence-based assays were used to evaluate cytotoxic activity. The translational potential was assessed using human monocyte training assays.This study demonstrated that preconditioning with WGP, a trained immunity inducer, increased the accumulation of trained monocytes/macrophages in the liver and suppressed tumor progression in HCC mouse models. Mechanistically, WGP-trained APOE+ monocytes/macrophages exhibited a decrease in lipid accumulation and endoplasmic reticulum stress, thereby enhancing their antitumor function. Genetic deletion of Apoe in monocytes/macrophages abrogated the antitumor effects of WGP, demonstrating that APOE+ monocytes/macrophages are essential mediators of WGP-induced trained immunity. Adoptive transfer of WGP-trained bone marrow-derived macrophages suppressed the growth of HCC in recipient mice. Furthermore, WGP induced trained immunity in human monocytes, leading to enhanced killing of HCC cells. Notably, combination therapy with WGP and anti-programmed death-ligand 1 antibody achieved superior tumor control compared with either monotherapy.These findings identify a critical role for trained APOE+ monocytes/macrophages in WGP-mediated antitumor immunity in the liver. Harnessing WGP-induced peripheral trained immunity represents a novel therapeutic strategy for HCC.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Brain injury after hypoxia-ischemia (HI) is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in term and near-term neonates worldwide. The ferret is a promising translational model to study HI due to its gyrified brain and white-to-gray matter ratio that more closely resembles humans compared to rodents. Caffeine, an adenosine A2A receptor (A2AR) antagonist, shows neuroprotective potential after HI, but its effects have not been fully characterized. We sought to evaluate caffeine's effect on neuronal cell death, cytotoxicity, and inflammatory and oxidative stress markers in a term-equivalent ferret organotypic brain slice model of HI. Slices were cultured for 72 h, exposed to two hours of oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD), and randomized to OGD alone, OGD with caffeine (20 or 50 mg/L), or OGD with caffeine and an A2AR agonist. Healthy slices served as controls. Outcomes included global cell death, regional cell death, microglial morphology, and expression of inflammatory and oxidative stress genes (46-48 slices/group for cell death assays and 18 slices/group for imaging, balanced by sex). Caffeine 50 mg/L significantly reduced global cell death compared to OGD (p = 0.02), and this effect persisted despite co-administration of an A2AR agonist (p = 0.01), suggesting that protection was not primarily mediated through A2AR signaling. Caffeine also did not change regional pyknotic nuclei counts (p > 0.05). Caffeine altered microglial morphology, increasing the proportion of microglia with features characteristic of control conditions. OGD significantly increased expression of inflammatory and oxidative stress-related genes (p < 0.05) compared with control slices, whereas caffeine did not significantly alter gene expression. In summary, caffeine partially reversed global cell death after OGD and altered microglial morphology. Larger, higher-powered studies are needed to further investigate caffeine's effects on neonatal HI.
G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) heteromerization represents a key organizational mechanism in cell signaling, but it remains difficult to determine, in native cells, how receptor-associated signals are distributed between non-interacting and heteromer-associated states. Here, we address this limitation by combining proximity ligation assay (PLA) with the newly applied MolBoolean methodology, enabling in situ quantification of the partitioning of adenosine A2A and cannabinoid CB2 receptor-associated signals between non-interacting fractions and A2A-CB2 heteromeric complexes in primary microglia. We show that resting microglia contain detectable A2A-CB2 heteromers together with a substantial non-interacting A2A-associated signal fraction. Selective activation of either receptor promotes redistribution of the detectable receptor-associated signal toward the heteromer-associated fraction. Ligand-induced redistribution also occurred in HEK-293T cells expressing the two receptors. In contrast, pro-inflammatory activation of primary microglia with LPS/IFN-γ markedly changes the basal organization of the receptor system, increasing the proportion of MolBoolean-detectable signal associated with A2A-CB2 complexes, with approximately 70% of the detectable receptor-associated signal corresponding to heteromeric complexes. In this inflammatory context, further agonist-induced repartitioning is strongly limited compared with that observed in resting microglia. These findings identify inflammation-dependent receptor partitioning as a quantitatively measurable feature of microglial A2A and CB2 receptor organization and provide a framework for interpreting how receptor context may influence future studies of A2A-CB2 pharmacology under neuroinflammatory conditions.© 2026 The Author(s). GLIA published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Understanding the immunological mechanisms underlying chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection-induced immune tolerance is critical for developing effective therapeutic strategies, yet the mechanisms by which natural killer (NK)-cell subsets regulate dendritic cell (DC)-mediated antiviral immunity during chronic HBV infection remain unclear. Here, we demonstrated that chronic HBV infection disrupted intrahepatic DCs accumulation and activation by suppressing CC chemokine ligand 5 (CCL5) production from hepatic NK cells. Importantly, chronic HBV infection reduced the number of hepatic conventional NK (cNK) cells, the main source of hepatic CCL5, whereas liver-resident NK (LrNK) cells increased and exhibited lower CCL5 expression and immunosuppressive features. Adoptive transfer of CCL5-competent hepatic cNK cells promoted DCs accumulation and activation, enhanced HBV-specific CD8+ T-cell responses, and facilitated viral clearance. Mechanistically, chronic HBV infection promoted the activation of adenosine A2a receptor (ADORA2A)/nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB) pathway in hepatic NK cells, thereby antagonizing NF-κB activation, reducing the proportion of cNK cells, suppressing CCL5 production, and ultimately impairing hepatic aggregation and activation of DCs, leading to defective anti-HBV immune responses. This study revealed a novel mechanism involved in chronic HBV infection-induced immune tolerance and indicated that targeting the ADORA2A/NFκB/CCL5 axis in cNK cells may represent a potential therapeutic strategy for chronic HBV infection.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
ADCY5-related dyskinesia is an autosomal dominant movement disorder with limited treatment options because many standard medications are ineffective. Caffeine has shown efficacy in ADCY5-related dyskinesia as an adenosine A2A receptor antagonist, but optimal dosing remains uncertain.We report a 24-year-old woman with paroxysmal dyskinesia since early childhood, consisting of chorea, dystonia, and myoclonus upon waking. More than 15 medications failed. Whole-exome sequencing identified a mosaic ADCY5 variant (p.R418Q, 7% variant allele frequency). Caffeine escalation from 100 to 600 mg worsened symptoms. Four months later, she found that unsweetened canned coffee containing approximately 100 mg of caffeine per can, taken 1-3 times daily, reduced her symptoms and helped her maintain daily employment. In a self-controlled analysis of 39 coffee-intake events, dyskinesia episodes during the 6 h after coffee intake were significantly fewer than during the preceding 6 h (p = 0.002).This case demonstrates successful symptom control in ADCY5-related dyskinesia using patient-directed, low-dose caffeine therapy. The striking response suggests a narrow therapeutic window for caffeine in this condition and that patient self-titration may be valuable in optimizing treatment response.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Adenosine rapidly suppresses antitumor immunity through the adenosine A2A receptor (A2AR). Immunogenic cell death (ICD) releases extracellular ATP, which can be rapidly converted into immunosuppressive adenosine. We therefore designed BSCS@PHY to synchronize ICD induction with local A2AR blockade in the same spatiotemporal window, aiming to protect antigen priming from adenosine-mediated suppression. BSCS@PHY integrates a bismuth-copper diselenide core for photothermal heating, glutathione depletion, and chemodynamic hydroxyl-radical generation; hyaluronic-acid-modified phase-change materials for on-site activation; the A2AR antagonist SCH442416 for local A2AR blockade; and yeast cell wall (YCW) components for innate adjuvanticity. Thermography-guided irradiation confines activation within a controlled window, melts the phase-change shell to expose the catalytic surface, and coordinates ICD amplification with co-localized A2AR blockade and dendritic-cell activation. In 4T1 tumors, BSCS@PHY enables image-guided activation, enhances ICD hallmarks, lowers adenosine signaling, promotes dendritic-cell maturation and T-cell priming, and improves tumor control, with additional benefit when combined with anti-PD-L1. Loss-of-function comparisons support nonredundant contributions of A2AR blockade and YCW-mediated adjuvanticity. This material-encoded strategy aligns danger-signal generation with local A2AR blockade in the same tumor niche and offers a framework for pairing ICD induction with metabolic-checkpoint control in cold tumors.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Background/Objectives: Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a type of inflammatory bowel disease characterized by abdominal pain, diarrhea, and bleeding. Polydeoxyribonucleotide (PDRN), an adenosine A2A receptor (A2AR) agonist, exhibits anti-inflammatory properties. In the present study, we evaluated the therapeutic effects of PDRN in a dextran sodium sulfate (DSS)-induced murine model of UC. Methods: UC was induced by administering 2% DSS in drinking water for 7 days. One day after DSS administration, mice received intraperitoneal injections of PDRN (8 mg/kg) for 7 days. To investigate the involvement of A2AR, the selective antagonist 3,7-dimethyl-1-propargylxanthine (DMPX, 8 mg/kg) was co-administered with PDRN. Results: DSS administration induced colonic tissue damage and increased disease activity index (DAI) and histological scores. DSS also elevated pro-inflammatory cytokines while reducing anti-inflammatory cytokine levels. PDRN treatment reduced histological damage, restored body weight, colon weight, and colon length, and decreased DAI scores. Furthermore, PDRN treatment inhibited nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) activation through suppression of NF-κB inhibitor-α phosphorylation and was associated with activation of the cAMP/PKA/CREB signaling pathway. PDRN treatment attenuated inflammation and was associated with increased expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in colonic tissues. Given the context-dependent role of VEGF in inflammatory bowel disease, this increase is interpreted as contributing to mucosal repair rather than exacerbating inflammation. Co-administration of DMPX abolished these effects, suggesting the involvement of A2AR-dependent signaling pathways. Conclusions: PDRN attenuated colonic inflammation and improved disease outcomes in DSS-induced UC, potentially through modulation of the PKA/CREB/NF-κB signaling pathway and VEGF-mediated tissue repair mechanisms.
Biomacromolecular therapeutics face critical size-dependent transdermal delivery limitations that restrict their clinical effectiveness. To overcome this constraint, a conformation-altering strategy using controlled mechanical stress is reported to achieve substantial structural compaction of polydeoxyribonucleotide (PDRN) without chemical intervention. By applying mild vacuum conditions that force PDRN molecules to pass through a silica particle media, a 1.8-fold size reduction of the radius of gyration was achieved, from 52.92 nm to 29.36 nm. The characterization of these molecules through SAXS and gel electrophoresis confirms the spatial conformational alteration without damage to the molecule structure or biofunctionality. Clinical trials validated the therapeutic superiority of conformationally modified PDRN, supported by enhanced cellular uptake, superior procollagen synthesis, accelerated wound healing kinetics, and upregulated extracellular matrix remodeling while preserving native adenosine A2A receptor-mediated signaling pathways. This conformational control methodology transcends traditional structure-function paradigms, establishing a platform for enhancing biomacromolecule bioavailability in dermatological therapeutics and regenerative medicine, allowing deepened tissue penetration without compromising biological activity.
Adult neurogenesis is a tightly regulated process affected by both cannabinoid receptors (CB1 and CB2) and adenosine 2A (A2A) receptors, both of which modulate neural progenitor cell activity. While emerging evidence suggests an interaction between these neuromodulatory systems, the extent and mechanism of their interplay in regulating neurogenesis remain unclear.Using a combination of in vivo and in vitro approaches together with pharmacological and receptor/binding assays, we investigated the crosstalk between A2A and CB receptors in regulating hippocampal neurogenesis.In vivo administration of WIN55212-2, a non-selective cannabinoid receptor agonist, increased hippocampal cell proliferation and immature neuron formation, an effect abolished by istradefylline, a selective A2A receptor antagonist. In vitro, activation of CB2 or A2A receptors promoted self-renewing divisions of hippocampal-derived neural progenitor cells. A2A receptor antagonism impaired CB2 receptor-mediated effects, whereas CB1/CB2 antagonism blocked A2A-mediated effects. Co-activation of CB1 or CB2 receptors with A2A receptors promoted a significant increase in cell proliferation. Notably, the proneurogenic effects mediated by CB1 or CB2 receptor agonists were blocked by A2A receptor antagonism, while A2A receptor-mediated actions on neuronal differentiation were blocked by CB1 or CB2 receptor antagonists. Finally, receptor-binding assays showed that A2A and CB1 receptors form heteromers in the mouse hippocampus, suggesting that their functional interaction may involve direct receptor-receptor crosstalk.Taken together, these findings suggest a crosstalk between the adenosinergic and cannabinergic systems responsible for regulating hippocampal progenitor dynamics. The identification of CB1-A2A receptor heteromerization provides new insights into the molecular basis of neurogenic modulation and highlights a promising avenue for the development of novel proneurogenic therapeutic strategies.© 2026 The Author(s). British Journal of Pharmacology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of British Pharmacological Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42299173 is a review article
Background/Objectives: Insomnia is a prevalent clinical sleep disorder, with existing hypnotic therapies limited by safety concerns. There is an urgent clinical need for new safe, effective sleep-promoting candidates derived from natural products. Spinosin is one of the main active components of Semen Ziziphi Spinosae that exerts sedative and hypnotic effects. The adenosine receptor (AR) has been reported as a potential therapeutic target for insomnia; however, the hypnotic effect of spinosin through the A2AR remains to be elucidated. Methods: In the study, the involvement of A2ARs in spinosin's hypnotic effect was investigated using caffeine and further elucidated in A2AR-knockout (KO) mice. Diazepam was used as a positive control drug to validate the experimental model and evaluate the hypnotic effect of spinosin. Molecular docking and molecular dynamics (MDs) simulations were performed to validate the interaction of spinosin with the A2AR. Results: The hypnotic effects of spinosin were effectively antagonized by caffeine. Compared with A2AR-wild-type (WT) mice, spinosin-induced non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep and locomotor activity diminution were significantly reduced in A2AR-KO mice. Spinosin significantly increased the activity of γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic medium spiny neurons (MSNs) in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) and significantly decreased the activity of orexin neurons in the lateral hypothalamus (LH), as revealed by c-Fos immunostaining. These effects were significantly reversed by caffeine pretreatment or in A2AR-KO mice. Finally, the results of molecular docking showed that spinosin had a good binding potential with the A2AR. MD simulations further demonstrated that spinosin had strong binding stability with the A2AR. Conclusions: Our findings strongly suggest that spinosin exerts the hypnotic effects through the A2AR, and thus may have therapeutic potential for insomnia. Our identification of spinosin's direct molecular target supports its translational potential as a novel natural-origin candidate for clinical insomnia drug development.
Tick-borne encephalitis virus (TBEV), the most medically relevant tick-transmitted flavivirus in Eurasia, targets the host central nervous system and frequently causes severe encephalitis. The severity of TBEV-induced neuropathogenesis is highly cell-type specific and the exact mechanism responsible for such differences has not been fully described yet. Thus, we performed a comprehensive analysis of alterations in host poly-(A)/miRNA/lncRNA expression upon TBEV infection in vitro in human primary neurons (high cytopathic effect) and astrocytes (low cytopathic effect). Infection with severe but not mild TBEV strain resulted in a high neuronal death rate. In comparison, infection with either of TBEV strains in human astrocytes did not. Differential expression and splicing analyses with an in silico prediction of miRNA/mRNA/lncRNA/vd-sRNA networks found significant changes in inflammatory and immune response pathways, nervous system development and regulation of mitosis in TBEV Hypr-infected neurons. Candidate mechanisms responsible for the aforementioned phenomena include specific regulation of host mRNA levels via differentially expressed miRNAs/lncRNAs or vd-sRNAs mimicking endogenous miRNAs and virus-driven modulation of host pre-mRNA splicing. We suggest that these factors are responsible for the observed differences in the virulence manifestation of both TBEV strains in different cell lines. This work brings the first complex overview of alterations in the transcriptome of human astrocytes and neurons during the infection by two TBEV strains of different virulence. The resulting data could serve as a starting point for further studies dealing with the mechanism of TBEV-host interactions and the related processes of TBEV pathogenesis.© 2022 The Authors.
The apolipoprotein E allele ε4 is the most well-known predisposing genetic risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD).To identify AD genes in apolipoprotein E-/- (ApoE-/-) mice brains with confirmed entry of Porphyromonas gingivalis.TaqMan™ Mouse AD arrays were performed on orally infected ApoE-/- mice with confirmed P. gingivalis entry and compared with sham infected mice brains (N = 4) at 12- and 24-weeks post infection.Gene expression by qPCR demonstrated that in the P. gingivalis 12-weeks post oral infection, two genes were statistically significantly changed in their expression. These were cyclin dependent kinase 5 regulatory subunit 1 (Cdk5r1, 0.15 logfold change, p = 0.05) and Interleukin 1 alpha, (IL1a, -0.10 log fold change, p = 0.012). In the P. gingivalis 24-weeks post oral infection, three genes were statistically significantly changed in their expression. These were cholinergic receptor nicotinic alpha 7 subunit or Chrna7 (0.10 log fold change, p = 0.02), mitogen-activated protein kinase 1 or Mapk1 (0.10 log fold change, p = 0.05) and visinin like 1 or Vnsl1 (0.01 log fold change, p = 0.04). 87 out of 92 AD target genes demonstrated no difference between infected and sham mice brains.Five genes, from a recognized AD panel had statistically significantly altered expression in the ApoE-/- mouse AD model following P. gingivalis entry into the brain. This suggests the ApoE-/- genetic variation may control the biological activity of specific genes relevant to inflammation and neuronal plasticity following P. gingivalis infection.© The Author(s) 2025.
We conducted a case-control study to investigate the effects of genetics and gene-environment interactions on major depressive disorders (MDD) in the Chinese population. Using targeted-exome sequencing, we included 984 patients with MDD and 508 healthy controls in our study. A logistic regression model was employed to analyze the association between single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and MDD. Additionally, a linear regression model was utilized to examine the associations between (1) gene-environment interaction and the 17-item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale, (2) SNPs and the Beck Scale for Suicide Ideation-Chinese version, and gene-environment interaction and the Beck scale for suicide ideation-Chinese version. The association analysis between SNPs and MDD revealed that the following loci reached genome-wide significance: rs2305554 of the cholinergic receptor nicotinic alpha 7 subunit, rs9459173 of synaptojanin 2, rs372369000 of beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase 6, rs866666526 of dopa decarboxylase, rs1254882194 of calcium/calmodulin dependent protein kinase ID, rs199880487 of reelin, rs1167948188 of reelin, rs1390140186 of QKI, KH domain containing RNA binding, and rs1776342 of period circadian regulator 3. The association analysis between SNPs and the Beck Scale for Suicide Ideation-Chinese version indicated that rs264272 and rs1774784888 of piezo type mechanosensitive ion channel component 2 reached genome-wide significance. These findings may enhance our understanding of MDD and contribute to the development of new potential targets for its diagnosis and treatment.© 2024 The Authors.
Migraine is a neurological disease characterized by severe headache attacks. Combinations of different genetic variations such as copy number variation (CNV) in a gene and microRNA (miRNA) expression can provide a holistic approach to the disease as a pathophysiological, diagnostic, and therapeutic target. CNVs, the Cholinergic Receptor Nicotinic Alpha 7 Subunit (CHRNA7) gene, and expression of gene-targeting miRNAs (hsa-miR-548e-5p and hsa-miR-3158-5p) in migraineurs (n = 102; with aura, n = 43; without aura, n = 59) and non-migraines (n = 120) aged 15-60 years, comparative, case-control study was conducted. Genetic markers were compared with biochemical parameters (BMI, WBC, Urea, GFR, ESR, CRP, HBG). All analyzes were performed by quantitative Real-Time PCR (q-PCR) and fold change was calculated with the 2-ΔΔCT method. The diagnostic power of the CHRNA7 gene, CNV, and miRNAs were analyzed with the receiver operating curve (ROC). CHRNA7 gene and hsa-miR-3158-5p are down-regulated in migraineurs and the gene is controlled by this miRNA via CNVs (p < .05). Both deletion and duplication were detected in patients with migraine for CVN numbers (p = .05). The number of CNV deletions was higher than duplications. When CHRNA7-CNV-hsa-miR-3158-5p was modeled together in the ROC analysis, the area under the curve (AUC) was 0.805, and the diagnostic power was "good". In migraineurs, the CHRNA7 gene can be controlled by hsa-miR-3158-5p via CNVs to modulate the mechanism of pain. These three genetic markers have diagnostic potential and may be used in antimigraine treatments.
Aims: Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death worldwide, and tobacco smoking is a recognized major risk factor for lung tumor development. We analyzed the effect of tobacco-specific nitrosamines (TSNAs) on human lung adenocarcinoma metabolic reprogramming, an emergent hallmark of carcinogenesis. Results: A series of in vitro and in vivo bioenergetic, proteomic, metabolomic, and tumor biology studies were performed to analyze changes in lung cancer cell metabolism and the consequences for hallmarks of cancer, including tumor growth, cancer cell invasion, and redox signaling. The findings revealed that nicotine-derived nitrosamine ketone (NNK) stimulates mitochondrial function and promotes lung tumor growth in vivo. These malignant properties were acquired from the induction of mitochondrial biogenesis induced by the upregulation and activation of the beta-2 adrenergic receptors (β2-AR)-cholinergic receptor nicotinic alpha 7 subunit (CHRNAα7)-dependent nitrosamine canonical signaling pathway. The observed NNK metabolic effects were mediated by TFAM overexpression and revealed a key role for mitochondrial reactive oxygen species and Annexin A1 in tumor growth promotion. Conversely, ectopic expression of the mitochondrial antioxidant enzyme manganese superoxide dismutase rescued the reprogramming and malignant metabolic effects of exposure to NNK and overexpression of TFAM, underlining the link between NNK and mitochondrial redox signaling in lung cancer. Innovation: Our findings describe the metabolic changes caused by NNK in a mechanistic framework for understanding how cigarette smoking causes lung cancer. Conclusion: Mitochondria play a role in the promotion of lung cancer induced by tobacco-specific nitrosamines. Antioxid. Redox Signal. 36, 525-549.
a migraine is a neurological disease. Copy number variation (CNV) is a phenomenon in which parts of the genome are repeated. We investigated the effects of the CNV and gene expression at the location 15q13.3 in the Cholinergic Receptor Nicotinic Alpha 7 Subunit (CHRNA7) gene, which we believe to be effective in the migraine clinic.we evaluated changes in CHRNA7 gene expression levels and CNV of 15q13.3 in patients with migraine (n = 102, with aura, n = 43; without aura, n = 59) according to healthy controls (n = 120) by q-PCR. The data obtained were analyzed against the reference telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) gene with the double copy number by standard curve analysis. Copy numbers were graded as a normal copy (2), gain (2>), and loss (<2).we analyzed using the 2-ΔΔCT calculation method. The CHRNA7 gene was significantly downregulated in patients (p < 0.05). The analysis of CNV in the CHRNA7 gene was statistically significant in the patient group, according to healthy controls (p < 0.05). A decreased copy number indicates a dosage loss. However, no significant difference was observed among gain, normal, and loss copy numbers and expression values in patients (p > 0.05). The change in CNV was not associated with the downregulation of the CHRNA7 gene.Downregulation of the CHRNA7 gene may contribute to the formation of migraine by inactivation of the alpha-7 nicotinic receptor (α7nAChR). The association of CNV gains and losses with migraines will lead to better understanding of the molecular mechanisms and pathogenesis, to better define the disease, to be used as a treatment target.
Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is the most common malignant brain tumour in adults. The poor prognosis and short median overall survival of patients with GBM is associated with resistance to therapy after surgical and adjuvant treatment. The expression of various acetylcholine receptors (AChR) in GBM has been widely reported. The present study aimed to investigate the expression of cholinergic system-related genes in primary GBM and to explore the antiproliferative effect of 3-(2,4-dimethoxybenzylidene) anabaseine (GTS-21) in GBM cell lines. Therefore, the expression of 28 genes associated with the cholinergic system was detected using a customized RT2 Profiler PCR Array in 44 GBM and 5 healthy control brain tissue samples. In addition, the activity of GTS-21, an alpha 7 subunit nicotinic AChR (α7 nAChR) agonist, and that of α-bungarotoxin (α-BTX), an α7 nAChR antagonist, was determined in primary and established GBM cells. Therefore, the A172, U87 and G28 cell lines and primary GBM cells were treated with GTS-21, ACh or nicotine. Cell viability was evaluated using MTT assay at 24, 48 and 72 h following cell treatment with the corresponding compounds. The results revealed that the expression of cholinergic system-related components was notably downregulated, except that of cholinergic receptor nicotinic alpha 7 subunit (CHRNA7), in primary GBM and U87 cells. However, the dominant-negative duplicate form of CHRNA7 was also downregulated. Furthermore, A172 and G28 cells exhibited a heterogeneous gene expression pattern. Additionally, GTS-21 inhibited the proliferation of GBM cells in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Interestingly, treatment with α-BTX restored the proliferation of U87 cells, but not that of A172 and G28 cells. Collectively, the findings of the present study suggested that GTS-21 may inhibit the proliferation of GBM cells and may therefore serve as a novel therapeutic approach to the treatment of GBM, which warrants further investigation.Copyright © 2021, Spandidos Publications.
Chromosome 15q13.3 microduplications are associated with a wide spectrum of clinical presentations ranging from normal to different neuropsychiatric conditions, such as developmental delay (DD), intellectual disability (ID), epilepsy, hypotonia, autism spectrum disorders (ASD), attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, and schizophrenia. The smallest region of overlap for 15q13.3 duplications encompasses the Cholinergic Receptor Nicotinic Alpha 7 Subunit (CHRNA7) gene, a strong candidate for the behavioral abnormalities. We report on a series of five patients with 15q13.3 duplications detected by chromosomal microarray. The size of the duplications ranged from 378 to 537 kb, and involved the CHRNA7 gene in all patients. The most common clinical features, present in all patients, were speech delay, autistic behavior, and muscle hypotonia; DD/ID was present in three patients. One patient presented epileptic seizures; EEG anomalies were observed in three patients. No consistent dysmorphic features were noted. Neuroimaging studies revealed anomalies in two patients: Dandy-Walker malformation and a right temporal cyst. 15q13.3 duplications are associated with various neuropsychiatric features, including speech delay, hypotonia, ASD, and ID, also present in our patient group. Our study brings detailed clinical and molecular data from five ASD patients with 15q13.3 microduplications involving the CHRNA7 gene, contributing to the existing knowledge about the association of 15q13.3 duplications with neuropsychiatric phenotypes.
Smoking is one of the most impactful lifestyle-related risk factors in many cancer types including esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC). As the major component of tobacco and e-cigarettes, nicotine is not only responsible for addiction to smoking but also a carcinogen. Here we report that nicotine enhances ESCC cancer malignancy and tumor-initiating capacity by interacting with cholinergic receptor nicotinic alpha 7 subunit (CHRNA7) and subsequently activating the JAK2/STAT3 signaling pathway. We found that aberrant CHRNA7 expression can serve as an independent prognostic factor for ESCC patients. In multiple ESCC mouse models, dextromethorphan and metformin synergistically repressed nicotine-enhanced cancer-initiating cells (CIC) properties and inhibited ESCC progression. Mechanistically, dextromethorphan non-competitively inhibited nicotine binding to CHRNA7 while metformin downregulated CHRNA7 expression by antagonizing nicotine-induced promoter DNA hypomethylation of CHRNA7. Since dextromethorphan and metformin are two safe FDA-approved drugs with minimal undesirable side-effects, the combination of these drugs has a high potential as either a preventive and/or a therapeutic strategy against nicotine-promoted ESCC and perhaps other nicotine-sensitive cancer types as well.
Skipped: PubMed ID 38832364 is a review article
Cholinergic receptor nicotinic epsilon (CHRNE) subunit mutations cause postsynaptic type of congenital myasthenic syndrome either as a primary acetylcholine-receptor deficiency or abnormal channel kinetics in the receptor. We report a novel homozygous variant (c.322C > T, p.Pro108Ser) in the epsilon subunit causing primary acetylcholine-receptor deficiency in two siblings. Two siblings presented with fatigable weakness. Both siblings had whole exome sequencing showing a homozygous variant (c.322C > T, p.Pro108Ser) of unknown significance in the epsilon subunit. Electromyography/nerve conduction study with repetitive nerve stimulation on one sibling showed a defect in neuromuscular junction transmission. Pseudoephedrine and fluoxetine for suspected slow-channel congenital myasthenic syndrome yielded no improvement. A trial of pyridostigmine led to clinical improvement. Given the clinical presentation, consanguinity, homozygous genetic variant, and response to pyridostigmine, we rationalize the homozygous variant (c.322C > T, p.Pro108Ser) in cholinergic receptor nicotinic epsilon subunit causes the primary acetylcholine-receptor deficiency congenital myasthenic syndrome.© The Author(s) 2023.
Congenital myasthenic syndromes (CMSs) are rare inherited diseases characterized by muscle weakness and fatigability on exertion resulting from defects in the neuromuscular junctions. Mutations in 32 genes have been reported as the underlying causes of CMS, with mutations in the cholinergic receptor nicotinic epsilon subunit (CHRNE) being the most common cause of the disease. Methodology and Materials: This study investigated a large consanguineous family with multiple individuals suffering from abnormal fatigue and muscle weakness in the ocular and limb regions. Moreover, the affected individuals were followed up for 18 years to observe the clinical course of the disease.High-quality exome sequencing followed by bidirectional Sanger sequencing revealed a homozygous duplication variant (NM_000080.4: c.1220-8_1227dup) in the splice acceptor site of exon 11 of the CHRNE gene. This variant is predicted to cause frameshift and premature termination (p.Cys410ProfsTer51). Both parents had heterozygous duplication variants with no clinical symptoms. The personalized treatment of the affected individuals resulted in a marked improvement in the clinical symptoms. More than 80% of the disease symptoms in the affected individuals subsided after the use of pyridostigmine and salbutamol (4 mg).This is the first report of long-term follow up of cases with homozygous insertion (c.1220-8_1227dup) in the CHRNE gene. Furthermore, this report expands the phenotypic symptoms associated with the CHRNE mutation.
Background: The Qingyuan partridge chicken is a high-quality local chicken breed in China. Its weight gain directly affects breeding efficiency. This study used RNA sequencing to analyze gene expression dynamics in the breast muscle tissue of Qingyuan partridge chickens at 1, 35, 70, and 105 days of age. Methods: This study employed RNA-sequencing, integrated with differential expression analysis, weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), and short time-series expression miner (STEM) analysis, to systematically investigate the transcriptomic dynamics in breast muscle tissue across four developmental stages. Results: Phenotypic analysis revealed a significant increase in both body weight (BW) and breast muscle weight with age (p < 0.05). Transcriptomic analysis identified 3521 genes specifically expressed at the age of one day compared with the other 3 ages. These were significantly enriched in pathways related to ribosomal biosynthesis, cytoskeletal regulation, and cell proliferation (p < 0.05). Turquoise and black modules were identified by WGCNA, containing 1563 hub genes, which significantly correlated with BW. Integration of differentially expressed genes and STEM analysis selected 26 BW-related key genes closely associated with muscle growth, including calmodulin 2 (CALM2), heat shock protein 90 alpha family class A member 1 (HSP90AA1), and cholinergic receptor nicotinic delta subunit (CHRND). Protein-protein interaction analysis revealed two functional networks centered around these genes. Enrichment analysis of the STEM profiles indicated that upregulated genes were significantly enriched in autophagy and the ErbB, FoxO, mTOR, and insulin signaling pathways, while genes related to the ribosome, cell cycle, and PPAR signaling pathways were downregulated. Conclusions: This study identified BW-related key genes and pathways, enriching our knowledge of the functional maintenance of chicken BW.
Prostate cancer (PRAD/PCa) is a leading malignancy in men, with high incidence and mortality rates globally. Although treatments like androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) and chemotherapy have advanced, the prognosis for advanced or metastatic PCa remains unfavorable. Post-translational modifications (PTMs), particularly protein palmitoylation, have emerged as critical regulators of cancer progression and potential therapeutic targets. This study investigates the features of palmitoylation-related genes (PRGs) in PRAD, their links to immune infiltration, and potential therapeutic applications.RNA-seq data and clinical information for PRAD were sourced from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), Deutsches Krebsforschungszentrum (DKFZ), Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center (MSKCC), Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO), ArrayExpress, PCaProfiler, and PCaDB. Palmitoylation scores were calculated using the single-sample gene set enrichment analysis (ssGSEA) method. A prognostic model was developed based on characteristic genes from single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and validated in multiple external datasets. An integrative machine learning approach combining ten algorithms was used to construct a PRG signature. Potential drug sensitivity was analyzed using the oncoPredict R package, and experimental validation was performed on human prostate samples and PRAD cell lines.Significant variations in palmitoylation scores were observed across different PRAD patient types and cell populations. Higher palmitoylation scores were associated with poorer biochemical recurrence (BCR)-free survival in the TCGA dataset. The developed prognostic signature demonstrated significant differences in BCR among patients stratified by risk score. Patients with elevated risk scores demonstrated advanced clinical features such as increased age, advanced tumor stage, lymph node metastasis, elevated prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels, higher Gleason scores, and BCR. Transcriptomic analysis identified unique gene expression profiles and pathway activities between high- and low-risk groups, with the high-risk group exhibiting heightened activation of oncogenic and immune-related pathways. PRG risk scores significantly impacted the immune landscape, with the high-risk group showing elevated immune checkpoint expression [e.g., programmed death 1 (PD-1) and programmed death ligand-1 (PD-L1)] and a more immunosuppressive microenvironment. Drug response analysis indicated that patients with different risk scores may respond differently to chemotherapy, with significant differences in the half-maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50) values for common chemotherapeutic agents. Functional importance and validation of hub genes, including cholinergic receptor nicotinic alpha 2 subunit (CHRNA2), supported their potential as therapeutic targets. Experimental validation of CHRNA2 knockdown in PRAD cells demonstrated significant inhibition of cell growth, migration, and invasion.This study underscores the prognostic importance of PRG expression in PRAD, linking it to tumor biology, immune infiltration, and treatment response. Targeting palmitoylation pathways may offer novel therapeutic opportunities for improving patient outcomes in PRAD. Future research should aim to clarify the molecular mechanisms of palmitoylation in PRAD and investigate its therapeutic potential through preclinical and clinical studies.© AME Publishing Company.
Significant research interest has been focused on beige adipocytes, the activation of which improves glucose and lipid homeostasis, therefore representing new therapeutic opportunities for metabolic diseases. Various Cre/Lox-based strategies have been used to investigate the developmental history of beige adipocytes and how these cells adapt to environmental changes. Despite the significant advancement of our understanding of beige adipocyte biology, much of the molecular insights of the beige adipocyte, including its origin and cell type-specific function, remain to be further illustrated. It has previously been shown that Chrna2 (cholinergic receptor nicotinic alpha 2 subunit) has selective functionality in beige adipocytes. In this study, we explore the Chrna2-Cre-driven reporter expression in mouse beige adipocytes in vivo and in vitro. Our findings indicate that Chrna2-Cre expression is present selectively in multiple locular beige adipocytes in subcutaneous inguinal white adipose tissue (iWAT) and differentiated stromal vascular fraction from iWAT. Chrna2-Cre expression was detected in iWAT of young pups and mice after cold exposure where a significant number of beige adipocytes are present. Chrna2-Cre-driven reporter expression is permanent in iWAT postlabeling and can be detected in the iWAT of adult mice or mice that have been housed extensively at thermoneutrality after cold exposure, even though only "inactive dormant" beige adipocytes are present in these mice. Chrna2-Cre expression can also be increased by rosiglitazone treatment and β-adrenergic activation. This research, therefore, introduces the Chrna2-Cre line as a valuable tool for tracking the development of beige adipocytes and investigating beige fat function.© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Endocrine Society. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com. See the journal About page for additional terms.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH) is the progressive form of liver steatosis, the most common liver disease, and substantially increases the mortality rate. However, limited therapies are currently available to prevent MASH development. Identifying potential pharmacological treatments for the condition has been hampered by its heterogeneous and complex nature. Here, we identified a hepatic nonneuronal cholinergic signaling pathway required for metabolic adaptation to caloric overload. We found that cholinergic receptor nicotinic alpha 2 subunit (CHRNA2) is highly expressed in hepatocytes of mice and humans. Further, CHRNA2 is activated by a subpopulation of local acetylcholine-producing macrophages during MASH development. The activation of CHRNA2 coordinates defensive programs against a broad spectrum of MASH-related pathogenesis, including steatosis, inflammation, and fibrosis. Hepatocyte-specific loss of CHRNA2 signaling accelerates the disease onset in different MASH mouse models. Activation of this pathway via pharmacological inhibition of acetylcholine degradation protects against MASH development. Our study uncovers a hepatic nicotinic cholinergic receptor pathway that constitutes a cell-autonomous self-defense route against prolonged metabolic stress and holds therapeutic potential for combatting human MASH.Copyright: © 2024 Jun et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 20301607
Kidney renal clear-cell carcinoma (KIRC) is a malignant tumor. At an early stage, KIRC patients may experience only mild fever and fatigue or even no symptoms, and these early nonspecific indications can delay treatment. Neurotransmitters and their receptors may be very useful in determining tumorigenesis and predicting metastasis.The study intended to investigate the predictive value of neurotransmitter receptor-related genes (NRRGs) using public KIRC data, by determining the biological processes that implicate the prognostic NRRGs and establishing a predictive NR-related risk model, to provide an empirical basis for identifying and treating KIRC patients.The research team performed a genetic case-control study.The study took place at Research Center of Health, Big Data Mining and Applications, Wannan Medical College, Wuhu, China.The research team: (1) obtained the transcriptome data related to KIRC from the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and ArrayExpress databases; (2) developed the differentially expressed NRRGs (DENRRGs) by identifying the NRRGs that intersected with DEGs in KIRC and normal samples; (3) carried out functional enrichment analyses of the DENRRGs; (4) screened the characteristic genes of the DENRRGs using machine learning; (5) created a predictive model using multivariate Cox analyses of the distinctive genes; (6) obtained independent prognostic factors for KIRC patients and established a nomograph model; (7) investigated the sensitivity of KIRC patients to therapeutic agents to examine the variations in immunological features between high-risk and low-risk individuals.Differential analysis found that 115 NRRGs intersected with 5275 DEGs to provide 52 DENRRGs. Functional enrichment showed that DENRRGs were mainly involved in signal transduction in the nervous system. The machine learning on the 52 DENRRGs filtered out nine characteristic genes. Subsequently, the research team found eight prognostic biomarkers-histamine receptor H2 (HRH2), gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptor subunit epsilon (GABRE), cholinergic receptor nicotinic delta subunit (CHRND), glutamate receptor ionotropic subunit 2D (GRIN2D), glutamate metabotropic receptor 4 (GRM4), glycine receptor alpha 3 (GLRA3), cholinergic receptor nicotinic beta 4 subunit (CHRNB4), and cholinergic receptor muscarinic-1 (CHRM1)-and established a predictive model. Furthermore, the team precisely predicted the KIRC patients' prognoses using a nomogram that combined their ages, risk scores, and M stages. The infiltration levels of 21 immune cells also significantly differed between the high-risk and low-risk groups, with neutrophils having a significant positive correlation with GABRE and HRH2 and a significant negative correlation with CHRNB4 and GRM4. Finally, the 50% inhibitory concentration (IC50) values for various drugs, such as 5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide-1-β-D-ribofuranoside (AICAR), 8-hydroxy-7-(6-sulfonaphthalen-2-yl)diazenyl-quinoline-5-sulfonic acid (NSC-87877), Sunitinib, c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) inhibitor VIII, and tanespimyci (X17.AAG) were significantly lower for high-risk group.By studying the relevance of biomarkers to the immunological microenvironment of KIRC, the current research team was able to propose a new predictive model for KIRC based on NRRGs, to offer a novel viewpoint for investigating KIRC. The study's results suggest new avenues for research into the pathophysiology and therapy of KIRC. Determining the precise molecular processes by which predictive biomarkers regulate KIRC requires further evidence and analysis.
Loud noise-exposure can generate noise-induced tinnitus in both humans and animals. Imaging and in vivo studies show that noise exposure affects the auditory cortex; however, cellular mechanisms of tinnitus generation are unclear.Here we compare membrane properties of layer 5 (L5) pyramidal cells (PCs) and Martinotti cells expressing the cholinergic receptor nicotinic alpha 2 subunit gene (Chrna2) of the primary auditory cortex (A1) from control and noise-exposed (4-18 kHz, 90 dB, 1.5 h, followed by 1.5 h silence) 5-8 week old mice. PCs were furthermore classified in type A or type B based on electrophysiological membrane properties, and a logistic regression model predicting that afterhyperpolarization (AHP) and afterdepolarization (ADP) are sufficient to predict cell type, and these features are preserved after noise trauma.One week after a loud noise-exposure no passive membrane properties of type A or B PCs were altered but principal component analysis showed greater separation between type A PCs from control and noise-exposed mice. When comparing individual firing properties, noise exposure differentially affected type A and B PC firing frequency in response to depolarizing current steps. Specifically, type A PCs decreased initial firing frequency in response to +200 pA steps (p = 0.020) as well as decreased steady state firing frequency (p = 0.050) while type B PCs, on the contrary, significantly increased steady state firing frequency (p = 0.048) in response to a + 150 pA step 1 week after noise exposure. In addition, L5 Martinotti cells showed a more hyperpolarized resting membrane potential (p = 0.04), higher rheobase (p = 0.008) and an increased initial (p = 8.5 × 10-5) and steady state firing frequency (p = 6.3 × 10-5) in slices from noise-exposed mice compared to control.These results show that loud noise can cause distinct effects on type A and B L5 PCs and inhibitory Martinotti cells of the primary auditory cortex 1 week following noise exposure. As the L5 comprises PCs that send feedback to other areas, loud noise exposure appears to alter levels of activity of the descending and contralateral auditory system.Copyright © 2023 Nogueira, Lima, Malfatti and Leao.
Hypertension is a modifiable cardiovascular risk factor and cause of death worldwide. Lotusine, an alkaloid extracted from a plant used in traditional Chinese Medicine, has shown anti-hypertensive effects. However, its therapeutic efficacy requires further investigation. We adopted integrated network pharmacology and molecular docking approaches with the aim of investigating lotusine's antihypertensive effects and mechanisms of action in rat models. After identifying the optimal intravenous dosage, we observed the effects of lotusine administration on two-kidney, one-clip (2K1C) rats and spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs). Based on network pharmacology and molecular docking analyses, we measured renal sympathetic nerve activity (RSNA) to evaluate lotusine's effect. Finally, an abdominal aortic coarctation (AAC) model was established to evaluate lotusine's long-term effects. The network pharmacology analysis identified 21 intersection targets; of these, 17 were also implicated by the neuroactive live receiver interaction. Further integrated analysis showed high lotusine affinity for the cholinergic receptor nicotinic alpha 2 subunit, adrenoceptor beta 2, and adrenoceptor alpha 1B. Blood pressure of the 2K1C rats and SHRs decreased after treatment with 2.0 and 4.0 mg/kg of lotusine (P < 0.001 versus saline control). We also observed RSNA decreases consistent with the network pharmacology and molecular docking analysis results. Results from the AAC rat model indicated that myocardial hypertrophy was decreased with lotusine administration, demonstrated by echocardiography and hematoxylin and eosin and Masson staining. This study provides insights into the antihypertensive effects and underlying mechanisms of lotusine; lotusine may exert long-term protective effects against myocardial hypertrophy caused by elevated blood pressure.Copyright © 2023 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 35931611 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 34952750 is a review article
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the leading causes of cancer-associated death. Emerging evidence suggests that autophagy plays a critical role in HCC tumorigenesis, metastasis, and prognosis. Choline is an essential nutrient related to prolonged survival and reduced risk of HCC. However, it remains unclear whether this phenomenon is mediated by autophagy.Two HCC cell lines (HUH-7 and Hep3B) were used in the present study. Cell growth was evaluated by cell counting kit 8 (CCK-8), colony formation, and in vivo mouse xenografts assays. Cell motility was calculated by wound healing and transwell assays. Autophagosomes were measured by transmission electron microscope (TEM), and autophagy flux was detected by mRFP-GFP-labeled LC3 protein. The mRNA level of genes was measured by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). The protein levels were detected by Western blotting (WB).We found that choline inhibited the proliferation, migration, and invasion of HCC cells by downregulating autophagy in vitro and in vivo. Upregulated expression of the solute carrier family 5 member 7 (SLC5A7), a specific choline transporter, correlated with better HCC prognosis. We further discovered that choline could promote SLC5A7 expression, upregulate cytoplasm p53 expression to impair the AMPK/mTOR pathway, and attenuate autophagy. Finally, we found that choline acted synergistically with sorafenib to attenuate HCC development in vitro and in vivo.Our findings provide novel insights into choline-mediated autophagy in HCC, providing the foothold for its future application in HCC treatment.2024 Hepatobiliary Surgery and Nutrition. All rights reserved.
Clonorchis sinensis is commonly found in East Asian countries. Clonorchiasis is prevalent in these countries and can lead to various clinical symptoms. In this study, we used overlap extension polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and the Xenopus laevis oocyte expression system to isolate a cDNA encoding the choline transporter of C. sinensis (CsChT). We subsequently characterized recombinant CsChT. Expression of CsChT in X. laevis oocytes enabled efficient transport of radiolabeled choline, with no detectable uptake of arginine, α-ketoglutarate, p-aminohippurate, taurocholate, and estrone sulfate. Influx and efflux experiments showed that CsChT-mediated choline uptake was time- and sodium-dependent, with no exchange properties. Concentration-dependent analyses of revealed saturable kinetics consistent with the Michaelis-Menten equation, while nonlinear regression analyses revealed a Km value of 8.3 μM and a Vmax of 61.0 pmol/oocyte/h. These findings contribute to widen our understanding of CsChT transport properties and the cascade of choline metabolisms within C. sinensis.
SLC5A7 (solute carrier family 5 member 7), also known as choline transporter 1 (CHT1), is downregulated in colorectal cancer (CRC) and functions as a tumor suppressor. However, the mechanisms underlying the inactivation of SLC5A7 in CRC remain to be elucidated.In the present study, two broad-spectrum demethylation agents (azacitidine and decitabine) employed to treat CRC cells significantly upregulated SLC5A7 expression. Further results based on the CRC cohort and TCGA database indicated that SLC5A7 promoter methylation inversely correlated with SLC5A7 expression, and the status of SLC5A7 promotor methylation showed a promising prognostic value for patients with CRC. Next, the dCas9-multiGCN4/scFv-TET1CD-based precision demethylation system was constructed, which could significantly and specifically promote SLC5A7 expression in CRC cells through sgRNA targeting the SLC5A7 promoter. Both in vitro and in vivo experiments demonstrated that targeted demethylation of SLC5A7 by dCas9-multiGCN4/scFv-TET1CD-sgSLC5A7 inhibited tumor growth by stabilizing p53 and regulating downstream targets.Collectively, DNA promoter methylation caused inactivation of SLC5A7 in CRC, and targeted demethylation of SLC5A7 might be a therapeutic target for CRC and other cancers.© 2022. The Author(s).
Egg production is the most important trait of laying hens. To identify molecular markers and candidate genes associated with egg production and quality, such as body weight at first oviposition (BWF), the number of eggs produced in 500 days (EN500), egg weight (EW), egg shell thickness (EST), egg shell strength (ESS), and Haugh unit (HU), a genome-wide analysis was performed in 266 LingKun Chickens. The results showed that thirty-seven single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were associated with all traits (p < 9.47 × 10-8, Bonferroni correction). These SNPs were located in close proximity to or within the sequence of the thirteen candidate genes, such as Galanin And GMAP Prepropeptide (GAL), Centromere Protein (CENPF), Glypican 2 (GPC2), Phosphatidylethanolamine N-Methyltransferase (PEMT), Transcription Factor AP-2 Delta (TFAP2D), and Carboxypeptidase Q (CPQ) gene related to egg-laying and Solute Carrier Family 5 Member 7 (SLC5A7), Neurocalcin Delta (NCALD), Proteasome 20S Subunit Beta 2 (PSMB2), Slit Guidance Ligand 3 (SLIT3), and Tubulin Tyrosine Ligase Like 7 (TTLL7) genes related to egg quality. Interestingly, one of the genes involved in bone formation (SLIT3) was identified as a candidate gene for ESS. Our candidate genes and SNPs associated with egg-laying traits were significant for molecular breeding of egg-laying traits and egg quality in LingKun chickens.Copyright © 2022 Gao, Xu, Zeng, Tian, Wu, Liu, Zhao, Zhou, Lin, Cao and Lu.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is associated with coiled-coil-helix-coiled-coilhelix domain containing 2 (CHCHD2) downregulation, which has been linked to reduced cyclocytase activity and increased levels of oxygen free radicals, leading to mitochondrial fragmentation and apoptosis. Little is known about how CHCHD2 normally functions in the cell and, therefore, how its downregulation may contribute to PD.This study aimed to identify such target genes using chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing from SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells treated with neurotoxin 1-methyl-4- phenylpyridinium (MPP+) as a PD model.In this study, we established a MPP+ -related SH-SY5Y cell model and evaluated the effects of CHCHD2 overexpression on cell proliferation and apoptosis. At the same time, we used high-throughput chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing to identify its downstream target gene in SH-SY5Y cells. In addition, we verified the possible downstream target genes and discussed their mechanisms.The expression level of α-synuclein increased in SH-SY5Y cells treated with MPP+, while the protein expression level of CHCHD2 decreased significantly, especially after 24 h of treatment. Chip-IP results showed that CHCHD2 might regulate potential target genes such as HDX, ACP1, RAVER2, C1orf229, RN7SL130, GNPTG, erythroid 2 Like 2 (NFE2L2), required for cell differentiation 1 homologue (RQCD1), solute carrier family 5 member 7 (SLA5A7), and NAcetyltransferase 8 Like (NAT8L). NFE2L2 and RQCD1 were validated as targets using PCR and western blotting of immunoprecipitates, and these two genes together with SLA5A7 and NAT8L were upregulated in SH-SY5Y cells overexpressing CHCHD2. Downregulation of CHCHD2 may contribute to PD by leading to inadequate expression of NFE2L2 and RQCD1 as well as, potentially, SLA5A7 and NAT8L.Our results suggest that CHCHD2 plays a protective role by maintaining mitochondrial homeostasis and promoting proliferation in neurons. In this study, the changes of CHCHD2 and downstream target genes such as NFE2L2/RQCD1 may have potential application prospects in the future. These findings provide leads to explore PD pathogenesis and potential treatments.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Gastric adenocarcinoma (GAC), a common type of gastric cancer, poses a significant public health threat worldwide. This study aimed to determine the transcriptional regulatory mechanisms of GAC.HTSeq-FPKM raw data were obtained from The Cancer Genome Atlas Stomach Adenocarcinoma data collection. Subsequently, the limma package in R was used to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Differentially methylated genes (DMGs), DEGs, and differentially expressed microRNAs (miRNAs) in normal, and tumor tissues of the same patients were screened and compared using R software tools. A functional enrichment analysis was performed using Gene Ontology (GO) and the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) for various DEGs, DMGs, promoter methylation, and miRNAs. DEG-specific methylation and transcription factors were analyzed using ENCODE ChIP-seq.DEGs were centrally modified by the histone trimethylation of lysine 27 on histone H3 (H3K27me3). Upstream transcription factors of DEGs were enriched in different ChIP-seq clusters, such as Forkhead Box M1, E2F Transcription Factor 4, and suppressor of zest 12. Integrated regulatory networks of DEGs, promoter methylation, and miRNAs were constructed. Two miRNAs (hsa-mir-1 and hsa-mir-133a) and four DEGs (A disintegrin and metalloproteinase domain 12, transcription factor AP-2 alpha, solute carrier family 5 member 7, and cadherin 19) separately played important roles in the integrated regulatory network. Therefore, these DEGs, DMGs, promoter methylation, and miRNAs may play an important role in GAC pathogenesis.In summary, the present study results provide insights into the oncogenesis and progression of GAC, thus accelerating the development of novel targeted GAC therapies.2021 Annals of Translational Medicine. All rights reserved.
Choline O-acetyltransferase (ChAT) catalyzes the biosynthesis of acetylcholine and is a cysteine-rich enzyme that has been investigated using a range of biochemical, biophysical and structural approaches. Existing ChAT ligands rely on electrophilic or unstable scaffolds that limit their suitability for biological systems. Prior work established that arylvinylpyridiniums (AVPs) are substrate mimics that undergo ChAT-catalyzed hydrothiolation with CoA to form covalent AVP-CoA adducts. Here, we applied a structure-guided strategy to design nonreactive ligands intended to mimic key features of the AVP-CoA binding pose while avoiding covalent reactivity. Nineteen analogs were synthesized and evaluated across complementary biochemical, structural, and biophysical assays. X-ray crystallography confirmed that the new ligands bind within the ChAT tunnel similar to AVP-CoAs. Importantly, the high cysteine content of ChAT, especially within a reactive CXCXXC motif, rendered the enzyme susceptible to modification by the widely used 7-diethylamino-3-(4'-maleimidylphenyl)-4-methylcoumarin (CPM) reagent used for measuring ChAT activity, leading to confounding results in thiol-dependent activity assays. Enzyme-free counter-screens demonstrated that all apparent inhibitory activity arose from interference with assay readout rather than true enzymatic inhibition. Surface plasmon resonance measurements established that none of the designed ligands display detectable reversible affinity for ChAT, despite their crystallographically validated poses, and no selectivity over the related enzyme carnitine O-acetyltransferase (CrAT) was observed. These findings demonstrate that confirmed binding with X-ray crystallography is insufficient to establish functional interaction with ChAT and highlight the susceptibility of this enzyme to thiol-reactive assay artefacts. More broadly, this work underscores the necessity of integrating orthogonal biophysical validation when studying ligand binding to cysteine-rich enzymes.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Diabetic nephropathy (DN), a major contributor to end-stage renal disease, remains poorly understood at the molecular level. While the roles of TRIM proteins in metabolic diseases are emerging, the specific function of Tripartite Motif Containing 14 (TRIM14) in DN and its novel interaction with Kinesin Family Member 1B (KIF1B) have not been explored. This study aims to investigate this uncharted mechanistic axis.A rat DN model was established using a high-fat diet and streptozotocin injection. Transcriptome sequencing, functional enrichment, and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analyses were performed to identify key regulatory genes and novel interactions. In vitro, high-glucose-exposed HK-2 cells were used for functional assays. The interaction between TRIM14 and KIF1B was validated by co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) and immunofluorescence. TRIM14 expression was also assessed in DN patient blood samples via qPCR.Transcriptomic profiling revealed significant enrichment of immune and metabolic pathways in DN, with TRIM14 emerging as a central regulatory gene. TRIM14 expression was markedly elevated in DN rat kidneys (approximately 2-fold increase, p < 0.001), high-glucose-stimulated HK-2 cells (2-fold increase, p < 0.01), and DN patient blood. Knockdown of TRIM14 significantly mitigated high-glucose-induced apoptosis, oxidative stress, and inflammation in HK-2 cells, partially by suppressing the TLR4/NF-κB pathway. Crucially, PPI analysis and Co-IP confirmed KIF1B as a novel and direct TRIM14 interactor, with TRIM14 positively regulating KIF1B expression and co-localizing in HK-2 cells.We report for the first time that the TRIM14-KIF1B axis acts as a key driver of renal injury in DN. TRIM14 exacerbates tubular epithelial cell damage via KIF1B modulation and TLR4/NF-κB activation. TRIM14 represents a promising diagnostic biomarker and therapeutic target for DN.© 2026 Chen et al.
Asthma is a chronic inflammatory respiratory disorder triggered by allergens or environmental pollutants, characterised by airway obstruction, increased airway resistance and breathing difficulties. Although substantial progress has been made in elucidating its pathophysiology, the molecular mechanisms underlying asthma progression remain incompletely understood, and no curative therapies are currently available. The present study explored the role of KIF1B (kinesin family member 1B) in asthma pathogenesis using integrated approaches involving human cohort datasets, in vitro airway epithelial cell models and an in vivo ovalbumin (OVA)-induced asthma mouse model. KIF1B knockdown and NLRP3 (NLR family pyrin domain-containing 3) overexpression assays were performed to delineate the molecular mechanisms by which KIF1B modulates pyroptosis. Results showed that KIF1B expression was markedly elevated in bronchial biopsies from asthma patients, OVA-challenged mouse lungs and IL-13-stimulated BEAS-2B cells. Silencing KIF1B significantly attenuated OVA- and IL-13-induced oxidative stress, proinflammatory cytokine release and pulmonary injury. Specifically, KIF1B knockdown reduced the expression of pyroptosis-associated proteins-NLRP3, cleaved caspase-1 and cleaved gasdermin D (GSDMD)-while decreasing TNF-α, IL-1β and IL-18 levels and restoring the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10. Mechanistically, NLRP3 overexpression abolished the anti-inflammatory and cytoprotective effects of KIF1B silencing, confirming that KIF1B promotes asthmatic inflammation through activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome. In conclusion, these findings identify KIF1B as a key regulator of airway inflammation and pyroptosis in asthma via NLRP3-dependent signalling. Targeting KIF1B may therefore represent a promising therapeutic strategy for controlling asthma progression.© 2025 The Author(s). Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Our previous genome-wide association study (GWAS) identified that chromosome 1p36.22 locus contributes to the risk of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).We aimed to identify the functional causative variant(s) and target gene(s) at this locus.Two independent HCC case-control populations, totally consisting of 1934 cases and 1446 controls, were used to validate the association between 1p36.22 locus and HCC risk. The expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL) and eQTL-GWAS co-localisation analyses were used to identify the target gene at 1p36.22. The effects of the target gene on tumourigenesis were assessed in HCC cells, nude mouse models and conditional knockout mouse models.We confirmed the association between 1p36.22 locus and HCC risk (p=4.99×10-24), and revealed that this locus is an eQTL of the kinesin family member 1B isoform β (KIF1Bβ) gene. Further, we demonstrated that KIF1Bβ plays a tumour suppressive role in HCC in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, KIF1Bβ interacts with the cargo Fibulin-5 and mediates its intracellular anterograde transport and extracellular secretion, therefore, reducing the activation of the integrin pathway. We further identified the functional causative variant rs61784580 at 1p36.22, which is located in the promoter of KIF1Bβ and regulates its expression in an allele-specific manner. Finally, we observed that downregulation of KIF1Bβ sensitises HCC cells to integrin αv inhibitor cilengitide.Our findings shed light on the genetic and molecular mechanisms of the HCC-associated susceptibility locus at 1p36.22 and provide potential new strategies for the treatment of HCC.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Congenital myasthenic syndromes (CMS) represent a heterogeneous group of inherited disorders resulting from mutations in genes that encode proteins essential for neuromuscular transmission. Among these, mutations in the collagen-like tail subunit of asymmetric acetylcholinesterase (COLQ) define a distinct subtype of CMS, necessitating specialized diagnostic and therapeutic strategies to improve patient outcomes. Herein, we analyzed five COLQ-CMS patients, focusing on their clinical features, electrophysiologic findings, genetic characteristics, and therapeutic responses. All five patients exhibited limb-girdle weakness, and two experienced acute respiratory insufficiency. The age of symptom onset ranged from 2 to 33 years, with an average diagnostic delay of 14 years. All patients exhibited a decremental response to repetitive nerve stimulation and myopathic features on electromyography. Using whole exome sequencing (WES), complemented by PCR-based screening and reverse transcription-PCR (RT-PCR) to clarify deletion and splicing mutations, five variants of the COLQ gene were identified. These included two novel splicing mutations, c.393 + 3A>G and c.814_814 + 2dup, which caused aberrant splicing and premature truncation. Additionally, we found the deletion of exon 14-15 of the COLQ gene in three patients. All patients received salbutamol, leading to significant alleviation of primary symptoms during treatment. In conclusion, our findings offer critical insights into the clinical diagnosis and management of COLQ-CMS and highlight the importance of recognizing clinical heterogeneity, diagnostic delays, and early genetic diagnosis, which may ultimately assist clinicians in accurately identifying and effectively treating such conditions.© 2025 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
This experimental study aimed to investigate the role of SOX2OT in NT2 cell neuronal differentiation to elucidate its specific function in this process, which remains unclear despite previous research highlighting its importance in central nervous system development.We utilized the NT2 cell line to create a constitutive SOX2OT knocked-down cell clone (SNT2) and a control clone (LNT2) through lentivirus-mediated shRNA delivery. All cell types underwent 3 weeks of neuronal differentiation induced by retinoic acid. Assessment involved morphological changes, Tubulin BIII immunofluorescence staining, and qRT-PCR for gene expression, including SOX2OT and neuronal markers (Nestin, CHAT, GFAP), compared to the control.We demonstrated that stable SOX2OT inhibition did not hinder NT2 cell neuronal differentiation. SNT2 cells maintained their ability to morphologically differentiate into neurons, expressing Tubulin IIIB protein. Before differentiation, SNT2 cells showed a significant increase in CHAT expression (p-value = 0.01), persisting after 21 days (p-value = 0.037). While differentiation triggered a mild early decrease in SOX2OT expression in control cells, it increased in all cells during the third week. The neural differentiation lead to a general decrease in the gene expression of Nestin, and elevating trends in CHAT, and GFAP neuronal markers. By day 21, the expression of all genes in SNT2 cells significantly differed from NT2 controls (p-value = 0.037), suggesting SOX2OT's potential role in NT2 cell neuronal differentiation.The results of this study showed that SOX2OT constitutive knocked down NT2 cells are still capable of differentiating into neuronal cells. However, SOX2OT inhibition can affect the expression of neuronal markers including choline O-Acetyltransferase which suggests its importance in the process of neuronal differentiation.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
This study aims to explore the medication rules and mechanisms of treating chronic renal failure(CRF) by Jinling medical school based on data mining, network pharmacology, and experimental validation systematically and deeply. Firstly, the study selected the papers published by the inherited clinicians in Jinling medical school in Chinese journals using the subject headings named &quot;traditional Chinese medicine(TCM) + chronic renal failure&quot;, &quot;TCM + chronic renal inefficiency&quot;, or &quot;TCM + consumptive disease&quot; in China National Knowledge Infrastructure, Wanfang, and VIP Chinese Science and Technology Periodical Database and screened TCM formulas for treating CRF according to inclusion and exclusion criteria. The study analyzed the frequency of use of single TCM and the four properties, five tastes, channel tropism, and efficacy of TCM used with high frequency and performed association rule and clustering analysis, respectively. As a result, a total of 215 TCM formulas and 235 different single TCM were screened, respectively. The TCM used with high frequency included Astragali Radix, Rhei Radix et Rhizoma, Salviae Miltiorrhizae Radix et Rhizoma, Poria, and Atractylodis Macrocephalae Rhizoma(top 5). The single TCM characterized by &quot;cold properties, sweet flavor, and restoring spleen channel&quot; and the TCM with the efficacy of tonifying deficiency had the highest frequency of use, respectively. Then, the TCM with the rules of &quot;blood-activating and stasis-removing&quot; and &quot;diuretic and dampness-penetrating&quot; appeared. In addition, the core combination of TCM [(Hexin Formula, HXF)] included &quot;Astragali Radix, Rhei Radix et Rhizoma, Poria, Salviae Miltiorrhizae Radix, and Angelicae Sinensis Radix&quot;. The network pharmacology analysis showed that HXF had 91 active compounds and 250 corresponding protein targets including prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthase 2(PTGS2), PTGS1, sodium voltage-gated channel alpha subunit 5(SCN5A), cholinergic receptor muscarinic 1(CHRM1), and heat shock protein 90 alpha family class A member 1(HSP90AA1)(top 5). Gene Ontology(GO) function analysis revealed that the core targets of HXF predominantly affected biological processes, cellular components, and molecular functions such as positive regulation of transcription by ribonucleic acid polymerase Ⅱ and DNA template transcription, formation of cytosol, nucleus, and plasma membrane, and identical protein binding and enzyme binding. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes(KEGG) analysis revealed that CRF-related genes were involved in a variety of signaling pathways and cellular metabolic pathways, primarily involving &quot;phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase(PI3K)-protein kinase B(Akt) pathway&quot; and &quot;advanced glycation end products-receptor for advanced glycation end products&quot;. Molecular docking results showed that the active components in HXF such as isomucronulatol 7-O-glucoside, betulinic acid, sitosterol, and przewaquinone B might be crucial in the treatment of CRF. Finally, a modified rat model with renal failure induced by adenine was used, and the in vivo experimental confirmation was performed based on the above-mentioned predictions. The results verify that HXF can regulate mitochondrial autophagy in the kidneys and the PI3K-Akt-mammalian target of rapamycin(mTOR) signaling pathway activation at upstream, so as to alleviate renal tubulointerstitial fibrosis and then delay the progression of CRF.
To explore the changes of CKLF-like MARVEL transmembrane domain-containing 6 (CMTM6) and programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression in gastric mucosal epithelial cells after Helicobacter pylori infection and the regulation of CMTM6 on PD-L1, and to analyze the mRNA expression differences before and after CMTM6 gene knock-out in helicobacter pylori infected gastric epithelial cells by microarray analysis.The standard Helicobacter pylori strain ATCC 26695 was co-cultured with human gastric epithelial cell GES-1 for 6, 24 and 48 hours, and the mRNA and protein levels of CMTM6 and PD-L1 were detected by real-time quantitative PCR and Western blot. Using CRISPR/Cas9 to construct CMTM6 gene knockout plasmid and knockout CMTM6 gene of GES-1 cells. Helicobacter pylori was co-cultured with CMTM6 gene knockout and wild type GES-1 cells for 48 hours to detect PD-L1 transcription and protein level changes, and CMTM6 gene knockout GES-1 cells were treated with the proteasome inhibitor MG-132 to detect the changes in PD-L1 protein levels. Agilent Human ceRNA Microarray 2019 was used to detect the differentially expressed genes in CMTM6 gene knockout and wild-type GES-1 cells co-cultured with Hp for 48 hours, and the signal pathway of differentially expressed genes enrichment was analyzed by Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) database.The mRNA and protein levels of CMTM6 and PD-L1 in GES-1 cells were significantly up-regulated after Helicobacter pylori infection, and CMTM6 mRNA was most significantly up-regulated 48 hours after infection. After CMTM6 gene knockout, the CD274 gene transcription level of Helicobacter pylori infected GES-1 cells did not change significantly, but PD-L1 protein level was significantly down-regulated, and the PD-L1 level increased after the application of proteasome inhibitor MG-132. After CMTM6 gene knockout, 67 genes had more than two times of differential expression. The transcription levels of TMEM68, FERMT3, GPR142, ATP6V1FNB, NOV, UBE2S and other genes were significantly down-regulated. The transcription levels of PCDHGA6, CAMKMT, PDIA2, NTRK3, SPOCK1 and other genes were significantly up-regulated. After CMTM6 gene knockout, ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme E2S (UBE2S) gene expression was significantly down-regulated, which might affect protein ubiquitination degradation. After CMTM6 gene knockout, adrenoceptor alpha 1B (ADRA1B), cholinergic receptor muscarinic 1 (M1), CHRM1, platelet activating factor receptor (PTAFR) gene expression was significantly up-regulated.Helicobacter pylori infection up-regulates the expression level of CMTM6 in gastric mucosa cells, and CMTM6 can stabilize PD-L1 and maintain the protein level of PD-L1. CMTM6 gene knockout may affect biological behaviors such as protein ubiquitination and cell surface receptor expression.
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is a kind of malignant tumor with high metastasis. Circular RNAs (circRNAs) are involved in tumor progression, but their functions and mechanisms are not well understood. Vasculogenic mimicry (VM) has been discovered as an alternative way to supply tumor nutrition and accelerate tumor progression, including NPC. We previously found that circCCNB1 (derived from cyclin B1) could inhibit the migration and invasion of NPC cells by binding to nuclear factor 90 (NF90), however, whether circCCNB1 has additional biological functions is still unclear. In this study, the effects of circCCNB1 binding to NF90 on the generation of miR-15b-5p and miR-7-1-3p were detected using qRT-PCR, western blotting, RNA pulldown, ribonucleoprotein immunoprecipitation and truncated experiments. VM formation assays were used to assess their biological functions. We found that circCCNB1 promoted the processing and generation of miR-15b-5p and miR-7-1-3p through competitive binding to NF90, thereby inhibiting the expression of calumenin (CALU), kinesin family member 1B (KIF1B), RNA polymerase III subunit G (POLR3G), ultimately decreasing the VM of NPC cells. This study not only reveals a new function of circCCNB1 in NPC, but also provides new insights for targeting angiogenesis therapy.© 2025 The Author(s). Molecular Oncology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
The five members of the mammalian muscarinic acetylcholine receptor family are encoded by the cholinergic receptor, muscarinic, 1-5 (CHRM1-5) genes. CHRM genes are incriminated in formation of various cancer types, but their roles in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) are improperly understood. Aberrant epigenetic modifications of specific tumor-suppressor genes and oncogenes are known to promote cancer development. We aimed to analyze the connection between methylation of CHRM genes and HNSCC recurrence, with specific reference to human papillomavirus (HPV)-positive oropharyngeal carcinoma.We investigated the methylation state of CHRM1-CHRM5 genes expressed in 305 samples of primary HNSCCs by quantitative methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction. We explored associations between methylation of these genes and the clinicopathological characteristics of HNSCC (location of the tumor as well as recurrence) Results: We found 1.08±0.94 methylated genes per sample (range=0-5), with promoters of CHRM1-5 genes methylated in 85.9%, 47.5%, 10.2%, 17.7%, and 19.3%, respectively, of the evaluated samples. Methylation levels of CHRM2 were significantly raised in HNSCC samples compared to corresponding normal tissues (p<0.001). Although there was no significance of tumor location, analysis by Kaplan-Meier estimate and multivariate Cox proportional hazard methods showed that methylated CHRM2 was significantly associated with increased recurrence of HNSCC with HPV-positive oropharyngeal cancer.CHRM methylation status is associated with HNSCC pathogenesis.Copyright © 2025 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
Dystrophin links the actin cytoskeleton to the extracellular matrix through the dystrophin-glycoprotein complex (DGC), providing structural stability to muscle fibers. In mdx mice, which lack dystrophin, neuromuscular junctions (NMJs) remain largely structurally and functionally intact despite extensive muscle pathology. Here, using single- and double-mutant mice deficient in dystrophin and α-syntrophin (α-syn), we investigated how utrophin upregulation contributes to NMJ maintenance in dystrophic muscle. During early postnatal development, when dystrophic muscles are transiently resistant to degeneration, the DGC proteins α-dystrobrevin, α-syn, and β-dystroglycan are broadly distributed along both synaptic and extra-synaptic regions of the sarcolemma, although their overall levels are reduced compared with wild-type (WT) muscle. In contrast, in WT mice, utrophin is restricted to NMJs, whereas in dystrophic muscles from both mutants, it is distributed along both synaptic and extra-synaptic regions of the sarcolemma, particularly within the innervated zone of muscle fibers. As muscles mature and degeneration begins, these DGC components become highly restricted to NMJs while being markedly reduced or absent from the extra-synaptic sarcolemma in many muscle cells. Although utrophin remains highly enriched at synaptic sites in mdx:α-syn-/- muscles, their NMJs display severe structural abnormalities compared with those of mdx mice. These include a dramatic reduction in synaptic fold depth and density, a decrease in presynaptic vesicle density, retraction of nerve terminals, and axonal thinning. These findings demonstrate that utrophin localization at the NMJ is not sufficient to preserve synaptic integrity and that functional interactions between utrophin and α-syn are required to maintain the NMJ in dystrophic muscle.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved.
Chronic sleep restriction (SR) impairs the glymphatic clearance of macromolecular toxic metabolites, which is associated with the loss of perivascular polarization of aquaporin-4 (AQP4). Melatonin (Mel) has been shown to maintain the circadian rhythm of AQP4 polarization. However, the role of AQP4 polarization in Mel's protective effects against SR-induced brain dysfunction remains unclear. In the present study, using a modified rotating rod SR mouse model, we demonstrated the time-dependent effect of SR on short-term memory deficits and AQP4 mislocalization in the hippocampus. Subsequent experiments characterized the dose-dependent pattern of Mel ameliorating SR-induced impairments of cognitive function and AQP4 polarity. Mel's treatment enhanced glymphatic transport in SR mice, as revealed by cerebrospinal tracer experiments, and reduced hippocampal amyloid-beta and phosphorylated tau levels. Additionally, Mel significantly decreased glial cell activation, pro-inflammatory cytokine production, and synaptic protein loss in the hippocampus of SR mice. However, in AQP4 knockout mice, Mel's protective effects against SR-induced pathophysiological alterations described above were largely abolished. Mechanistically, Mel activated the vitamin D receptor and then upregulated expression of DTNA (Dystrobrevin Alpha), a key component of the dystrophin-associated complex, which in turn restored AQP4 polarization during chronic SR conditions. This finding indicates that AQP4-mediated lymphatic clearance is necessary for Mel to combat chronic SR-induced brain impairment.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Understanding the early stages of human congenital myopathies is critical for proposing strategies for improving musculoskeletal muscle performance, such as restoring the functional integrity of the cytoskeleton. SH3 and cysteine-rich domain 3 (STAC3) are proteins involved in nutrient regulation and are an essential component of the excitation-contraction (EC) coupling machinery for Ca2+ releasing. A mutation in STAC3 causes debilitating Native American Myopathy (NAM) in humans, while loss of this gene in mice and zebrafish (ZF) results in premature death. Clinically, NAM patients demonstrated increased lipids in skeletal muscle, but it is unclear if neutral lipids are associated with altered muscle function in NAM. Using a CRISPR/Cas9 induced stac3-/- knockout (KO) zebrafish model, we determined that loss of stac3 leads to delayed larval hatching which corresponds with muscle weakness and decreased whole-body Ca2+ level during early skeletal development. Specifically, we observed defects in the cytoskeleton in F-actin and slow muscle fibers at 5 and 7 days post-fertilizations (dpf). Myogenesis regulators such as myoD and myf5, mstnb were significantly altered in stac3-/- larvae. These muscle alterations were associated with elevated neutral lipid levels starting at 5 dpf and persisting beyond 7 dpf. Larva lacking stac3 had reduced viability with no larva knockouts surviving past 11 dpf. This data suggests that our stac3-/- zebrafish serve as an alternative model to study the diminished muscle function seen in NAM patients. The data gathered from this new model over time supports a mechanistic view of lipotoxicity as a critical part of the pathology of NAM and the associated loss of function in muscle.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
α-Dystrobrevin (α-DB) is a major component of the dystrophin-associated protein complex (DAPC). Knockout (KO) of α-DB in the brain is associated with astrocytic abnormalities and loss of neuronal GABA receptor clustering. Mutations in DAPC proteins are associated with altered dopamine signaling and cognitive and psychiatric disorders, including schizophrenia. This study tested the hypothesis that motivation and associated underlying biological pathways are altered in the absence of α-DB expression. Male wildtype and α-DB KO mice were tested for measures of motivation, executive function and extinction in the rodent touchscreen apparatus. Subsequently, brain tissues were evaluated for mRNA and/or protein levels of dysbindin-1, dopamine transporter and receptor 1 and 2, mu opioid receptor 1 (mOR1) and cannabinoid receptor 1 (CB1). α-DB KO mice had significantly increased motivation for the appetitive reward, while measures of executive function and extinction were unaffected. No differences were observed between wildtype and KO animals on mRNA levels of dysbindin-1 or any of the dopamine markers. mRNA levels of mOR1were significantly decreased in the caudate-putamen and nucleus accumbens of α-DB KO compared to WT animals, but protein levels were unaltered. However, CB1 protein levels were significantly increased in the prefrontal cortex and decreased in the nucleus accumbens of α-DB KO mice. Triple-labelling immunohistochemistry confirmed that changes in CB1 were not specific to astrocytes. These results highlight a novel role for α-DB in the regulation of appetitive motivation that may have implications for other behaviours that involve the dopaminergic and endocannabinoid systems.© 2022. The Author(s).
Porto-sinusoidal vascular disorder (PSVD) is a group of liver vascular diseases featuring lesions encompassing the portal venules and sinusoids unaccompanied by cirrhosis, irrespective of the presence/absence of portal hypertension. It can occur secondary to coagulation disorders or insult by toxic agents. However, the cause of PSVD remains unknown in most cases. Hereditary cases of PSVD are exceptionally rare, but they are of particular interest and may unveil genetic alterations and molecular mechanisms associated with the disease.We performed genome sequencing of four patients and two healthy individuals of a large multigenerational Lebanese family with PSVD and identified a heterozygous deleterious variant (c.547C>T, p.R183W) of FCH and double SH3 domains 1 ( FCHSD1 ), an uncharacterized gene, in patients. This variant segregated with the disease, and its pattern of inheritance was suggestive of autosomal dominant with variable expressivity. RNA structural modelling of human FCHSD1 suggests that the C-to-T substitution at position 547, corresponding to FCHSD1R183W , may increase both messenger RNA (mRNA) and protein stability and its interaction with MTOR-associated protein, LST8 homolog, a key protein of the mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR pathway). These predictions were substantiated by biochemical analyses, which showed that FCHSD1R183W induced high FCHSD1 mRNA stability, overexpression of FCHSD1 protein, and an increase in mTORC1 activation. This human FCHSD1 variant was introduced into mice through CRISPR/Cas9 genome editing. Nine out of the 15 mice carrying the human FCHSD1R183W variant mimicked the phenotype of human PSVD, including splenomegaly and enlarged portal vein.Aberrant FCHSD1 structure and function leads to mTOR pathway overactivation and may cause PSVD.Copyright © 2023 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. on behalf of American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.
The disruption of excitation-contraction (EC) coupling and subsequent reduction in Ca2+ release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) have been shown to account for muscle weakness seen in patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). Here, we examined the mechanisms underlying EC uncoupling in skeletal muscles from mdx52 and DMD-null/NSG mice, animal models for DMD, focusing on the SH3 and cysteine-rich domain 3 (STAC3) and junctophilin 1 (JP1), which link the dihydropyridine receptor (DHPR) in the transverse tubule and the ryanodine receptor 1 in the SR. The isometric plantarflexion torque normalized to muscle weight of whole plantar flexor muscles was depressed in mdx52 and DMD-null/NSG mice compared with their control mice. This was accompanied by increased autolysis of calpain-1, decreased levels of STAC3 and JP1 content, and dissociation of STAC3 and JP1 from DHPR-α1s in gastrocnemius muscles. Moreover, in vitro mechanistic experiments demonstrated that STAC3 and JP1 underwent Ca2+-dependent proteolysis that was less pronounced in dystrophin-deficient muscles where calpastatin, the endogenous calpain inhibitor, was upregulated. Eccentric contractions further enhanced autolysis of calpain-1 and proteolysis of STAC3 and JP1 that were associated with severe torque depression in gastrocnemius muscles from DMD-null/NSG mice. These data suggest that Ca2+-dependent proteolysis of STAC3 and JP1 may be an essential factor causing muscle weakness due to EC coupling failure in dystrophin-deficient muscles.NEW & NOTEWORTHY The mechanisms underlying the disruption of excitation-contraction (EC) coupling in dystrophin-deficient muscles are not well understood. Here, using animal models for Duchenne muscular dystrophies (DMD), we show a Ca2+-dependent protease (calpain-1)-mediated proteolysis of SH3 and cysteine-rich domain 3 (STAC3) and junctophilin 1 (JP1), essential EC coupling proteins, in dystrophin-deficient muscle, and highlighting the dissociation of STAC3 and JP1 from dihydropyridine receptor as a causative factor in EC uncoupling of dystrophic muscles.
α-syntrophin (α-syn) and α-dystrobrevin (α-dbn), two components of the dystrophin-glycoprotein complex, are essential for the maturation and maintenance of the neuromuscular junction (NMJ) and mice deficient in either α-syn or α-dbn exhibit similar synaptic defects. However, the functional link between these two proteins and whether they exert distinct or redundant functions in the postsynaptic organization of the NMJ remain largely unknown. We generated and analyzed the synaptic phenotype of double heterozygote (α-dbn+/-, α-syn+/-), and double homozygote knockout (α-dbn-/-; α-syn-/-) mice and examined the ability of individual molecules to restore their defects in the synaptic phenotype. We showed that in double heterozygote mice, NMJs have normal synaptic phenotypes and no signs of muscular dystrophy. However, in double knockout mice (α-dbn-/-; α-syn-/-), the synaptic phenotype (the density, the turnover and the distribution of AChRs within synaptic branches) is more severely impaired than in single α-dbn-/- or α-syn-/- mutants. Furthermore, double mutant and single α-dbn-/- mutant mice showed more severe exercise-induced fatigue and more significant reductions in grip strength than single α-syn-/- mutant and wild-type. Finally, we showed that the overexpression of the transgene α-syn-GFP in muscles of double mutant restores primarily the abnormal extensions of membrane containing AChRs that extend beyond synaptic gutters and lack synaptic folds, whereas the overexpression of α-dbn essentially restores the abnormal dispersion of patchy AChR aggregates in the crests of synaptic folds. Altogether, these data suggest that α-syn and α-dbn act in parallel pathways and exert distinct functions on the postsynaptic structural organization of NMJs.© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.
The extracellular matrix (ECM) of the cerebral vasculature provides a pathway for the flow of interstitial fluid (ISF) and solutes out of the brain by intramural periarterial drainage (IPAD). Failure of IPAD leads to protein elimination failure arteriopathies such as cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA). The ECM consists of a complex network of glycoproteins and proteoglycans that form distinct basement membranes (BM) around different vascular cell types. Astrocyte endfeet that are localised against the walls of blood vessels are tethered to these BMs by dystrophin associated protein complex (DPC). Alpha-dystrobrevin (α-DB) is a key dystrophin associated protein within perivascular astrocyte endfeet; its deficiency leads to a reduction in other dystrophin associated proteins, loss of AQP4 and altered ECM. In human dementia cohorts there is a positive correlation between dystrobrevin gene expression and CAA. In the present study, we test the hypotheses that (a) the positive correlation between dystrobrevin gene expression and CAA is associated with elevated expression of α-DB at glial-vascular endfeet and (b) a deficiency in α-DB results in changes to the ECM and failure of IPAD. We used human post-mortem brain tissue with different severities of CAA and transgenic α-DB deficient mice. In human post-mortem tissue we observed a significant increase in vascular α-DB with CAA (CAA vrs. Old p < 0.005, CAA vrs. Young p < 0.005). In the mouse model of α-DB deficiency, there was early modifications to vascular ECM (collagen IV and BM thickening) that translated into reduced IPAD efficiency. Our findings highlight the important role of α-DB in maintaining structure and function of ECM, particularly as a pathway for the flow of ISF and solutes out of the brain by IPAD.© 2021. The Author(s).
Preconditioning contractions (PCs) have been shown to markedly improve recovery from eccentric contractions (ECCs)-induced force depression. We here examined the mechanism behind the effects of PCs with focusing on the SH3 and cysteine-rich domain 3 (STAC3) that is essential for coupling membrane depolarization to Ca2+ release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum. Rat medial gastrocnemius (MG) muscles were excised immediately (REC0), 1 day (REC1), and 4 days (REC4) after exposure to 100 repeated damaging ECCs in vivo. PCs with 10 repeated nondamaging ECCs were applied 2 days before the damaging ECCs. Damaging ECCs induced in vivo isometric torque depression at 50 and 100 Hz stimulation frequencies, which was accompanied by a significant decrease in the amount of full-length STAC3, an activation of calpain 1, and an increased number of Evans Blue dye-positive fibers in MG muscles at REC1 and REC4. Interestingly, PCs attenuated all these deleterious alterations induced by damaging ECCs. Moreover, mechanistic experiments performed on normal muscle samples exposed to various concentration of Ca2+ showed a Ca2+-dependent proteolysis of STAC3, which was prevented by calpain inhibitor MDL-28170. In conclusion, PCs may improve recovery from force depression after damaging ECCs, in part by inhibiting the loss of STAC3 due to the increased permeability of cell membrane and subsequent activation of calpain 1.NEW & NOTEWORTHY The SH3 and cysteine-rich domain 3 (STAC3) is a skeletal muscle-specific protein that couples membrane depolarization to sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ release. No studies, however, examined the role of STAC3 in protective effects of preconditioning contractions (PCs) against damaging eccentric contractions (ECCs). Here, we demonstrate that PCs may improve recovery from damaging ECCs-induced force depression, in part by an inhibition of Ca2+-dependent proteolysis of STAC3 due to increased membrane permeability and subsequent calpain 1 activation.
Metabolic syndrome (MetS) is a complex, multifactorial, systemic disease characterized by the coexistence of metabolic abnormalities and is clinically defined by the presence of at least three important risk factors: excess abdominal fat, a low serum concentration of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, high serum triglyceride levels, high blood pressure, and high serum glucose levels. Understanding the role of epigenetics in MetS remains challenging because of the complexity of its multifactorial mechanisms. Thus, this study aimed to evaluate the factors associated with MetS and their association with methylation in the nuclear receptor subfamily 3 group C member 1 (NR3C1) gene.This cross-sectional study included 353 volunteers who were patients of the primary care service of the Brazilian Public Health System. Socioeconomic status, lifestyle, and health conditions were assessed, along with anthropometric measurements, blood pressure readings, and the collection of blood samples for biochemical and molecular analyses. The methylation levels of the promoter region (1F) of the NR3C1 gene were specifically analyzed via DNA pyrosequencing.The prevalence of MetS was 40.5% in the present study, and factors associated with MetS in the multivariate Poisson regression were age, excess body fat, serum very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) cholesterol levels, and methylation at CpGs 40 and 46 of the NR3C1 gene.In summary, these findings demonstrate a site-specific association between NR3C1 DNA methylation and MetS and highlight a molecular profile that coexists with established clinical risk factors. These results suggest a potential epigenetic role of the NR3C1 gene in MetS, contributing to a better understanding of its etiology.Copyright © 2026 Olinda, Borçoi, Mendes, Moreno, Dos Santos Vieira, Quaioto, de Souza, Corrêa, da Mota, Fernandes, Cunha, Freitas, de Assis Pinheiro, dos Santos, Sorroche, Arantes, Casali-da-Rocha, Graceli and Alvares-da-Silva.
Background and Objectives: Non-traumatic osteonecrosis of the femoral head (ONFH) is a multifactorial disorder influenced by both environmental and genetic factors. The nuclear receptor subfamily 3 group C member 1 (NR3C1) gene encodes the glucocorticoid receptor, which plays a key role in bone metabolism, vascular regulation, and stress response. This study aimed to investigate the association between NR3C1 polymorphisms and susceptibility to ONFH, with particular emphasis on age-related genetic effects. Materials and Methods: A hospital-based case-control study was conducted using genotyping data from the Taiwan Biobank version 2 (TWBv2) custom array. A total of 609 patients with ONFH and 2436 age- and sex-matched controls were included. Forty-nine single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) within or near the NR3C1 gene with a minor allele frequency greater than 5% were analyzed. Logistic regression models were applied to estimate odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) under multiple genetic inheritance models. Age-stratified analyses were also performed. Results: Among the analyzed SNPs, rs28593206 and rs315199 demonstrated nominally significant differences in allele distributions between cases and controls (p = 0.024 and p = 0.009, respectively), with minor alleles showing nominal associations with increased odds of ONFH. Additional exploratory analyses under different genetic models identified several SNPs with nominal associations with ONFH susceptibility, while rs7709864 showed a possible nominal protective association. In age-stratified analyses, several SNPs showed nominal associations with ONFH risk among individuals older than 40 years, whereas no nominally significant associations were observed in younger individuals. Conclusions: This exploratory study suggests that NR3C1 polymorphisms may be nominally associated with susceptibility to ONFH, particularly among individuals older than 40 years. However, because no formal correction for multiple comparisons was performed and detailed etiological data were unavailable, these findings should be interpreted cautiously and regarded as hypothesis-generating rather than clinically applicable evidence. Further studies incorporating larger cohorts, etiological stratification, multiple-testing correction, replication analyses, and functional validation are required to confirm these observations and clarify the underlying biological mechanisms.
Zingerone (Zin) exhibits multiple pharmacological properties, including anti-inflammatory, immunomodulatory, anxiolytic, anti-thrombotic, radioprotective, and antimicrobial activities. However, the therapeutic potential of Zin in coronary artery atherosclerotic heart disease (CHD) remains unexplored. This study aims to elucidate the role and underlying molecular mechanisms of Zin in CHD treatment. Putative Zin targets associated with CHD were identified through online database screening followed by functional enrichment analysis. Core target genes were screened using Protein-protein interaction (PPI) Network analysis, machine learning algorithms, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics simulations. Protein expression was examined using western blot. The levels of interleukin (IL)-6 and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) were detected using detection kits. The senescence of cells was analyzed using senescence-associated β-galactosidase (SA-β-gal) staining kits. Zin was predicted to target several core genes, including v-akt murine thymoma viral oncogene homolog 2 (AKT2), heat shock protein 90α family class B member 1 (HSP90AB1), nuclear receptor subfamily 3 group C member 1 (NR3C1), forkhead box O1 (FOXO1), and toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), potentially contributing to the alleviation of CHD. Furthermore, molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulation predicted a stable binding interaction between Zin and HSP90AB1. Zin ameliorated ox-LDL-stimulated inflammation, an effect that was associated with downregulation of HSP90AB1. Furthermore, Zin alleviated ox-LDL-induced senescence and apoptosis in a manner correlated with reduced HSP90AB1 levels in vitro. Zin suppresses inflammation, senescence, and apoptosis of oxidized low-density lipoprotein-induced primary human coronary artery endothelial cells in a manner associated with HSP90AB1 silencing. These findings provide a foundation for the further development of Zin-based treatment strategies for CHD.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Pathologic myopia (PM) is a severe form of myopia associated with structural changes in the eye, leading to vision impairment. Identifying genetic factors that contribute to PM can enhance the treatment of the condition. This study aimed to investigate the association between the GPR97 and PM and to evaluate the impact of glucocorticoid treatment on PM.A cohort of 412 sporadic PM patients underwent Sanger sequencing and genotyping for GPR97 gene variants. Thirty-one PM patients with various GPR97 genotypes received glucocorticoid and brinzolamide treatment over 24 months. Real-time PCR was employed to examine the target gene mRNA expression. A scratch assay was performed to detect cell migration ability.A significant association was identified between GPR97 rs76688596 genotypes and PM occurrence. The CC genotype was linked to elevated intraocular pressure (IOP). In human scleral fibroblasts, overexpression of GPR97 Arg396 resulted in upregulation of IOP-related genes serine/arginine-rich splicing factor 3, peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase 4, peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase 5, and nuclear receptor subfamily 3 group C member 1. The GPR97 Arg396 mutation inhibited the glucocorticoid-GPR97 axis and reduced cell migration ability. Clinically, CC genotype carriers exhibited significant improvements in axial length, spherical equivalent, IOP, best-corrected visual acuity, and visual field mean sensitivity with glucocorticoid treatment.The study revealed that the GPR97 rs76688596 G > C variant is associated with PM pathogenesis, influencing gene expression related to IOP. The differential response to glucocorticoid treatment among GPR97 genotypes suggests personalized therapeutic potential.Copyright: © 2026 Research in Pharmaceutical Sciences.
The purpose of this study was to describe a novel heterozygous missense variant in the nuclear receptor subfamily 3 group C member 1 ligand-binding domain causing primary generalized glucocorticoid resistance and highlight diagnostic pitfalls that can mimic Cushing's disease.A 22-year-old woman was evaluated for suspected Cushing's disease after elevated cortisol levels and pituitary imaging findings. She underwent three transsphenoidal surgeries, but hypercortisolism and clinical symptoms including hirsutism, acne, menstrual irregularities, and weight gain persisted. The absence of classical Cushing's stigmata prompted genetic evaluation, which led to the diagnosis of primary generalized glucocorticoid resistance.Whole-exome sequencing was performed in the index case. The identified variant was validated by Sanger sequencing and segregation analysis was carried out in her sister.A novel heterozygous, likely pathogenic missense variant (NM_000176.3:c.1940T>C, p.(Leu647Pro)) in the nuclear receptor subfamily 3 group C member 1 gene was detected in two siblings.We describe a novel nuclear receptor subfamily 3 group C member 1 variant associated with primary generalized glucocorticoid resistance, expanding the mutational spectrum of glucocorticoid receptor defects. This case underscores the importance of considering primary generalized glucocorticoid resistance in patients with adrenocorticotropic hormone-dependent hypercortisolism lacking typical Cushing's features to prevent unnecessary invasive procedures and guide appropriate genetic counseling.Thieme. All rights reserved.
Early brain injury (EBI) following subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) is critical for patient prognosis, and neuroinflammation and pyroptosis play core roles in its pathological process. Immunity-related GTPase 1 (IRGM1) is downregulated after SAH. Nuclear Receptor Subfamily 3, Group C, Member 1 (NR3C1) is closely associated with inflammatory responses and cellular injury in central nervous system injury. However, the interaction between the two and their mechanism of action in SAH lacks experimental verification. This study aimed to explore the regulatory mehcanism of the NRC31/IRGM1 axis in EBI after SAH.An in vitro SAH model was established using hemin-treated BV2 microglial cells. Hemin is hemoglobin's main degradation product post-SAH; its accumulation drives SAH-induced EBI, so hemin-stimulated BV2 cells are a validated model for SAH-related microglial injury. Gene and protein expressions were detected via quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction and Western blot, respectively; cell viability was assessed by cell counting kit-8 assay, apoptosis by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) staining, oxidative stress indicators (reactive oxygen species, malondialdehyde, and superoxide dismutase) by corresponding kits, and inflammatory cytokines (interleukin-1 beta and interleukin-18) by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. NR3C1 was identified as a potential upstream transcription factor of IRGM1 via bioinformatics prediction (JASPAR), and its binding to the IRGM1 promoter was verified by chromatin immunoprecipitation and dual-luciferase reporter assays. An in vivo SAH model was established, with neuronal injury observed by Nissl staining; SAH grade, neurological function scores, and brain water content were also measured.SAH induction significantly downregulated IRGM1 mRNA and protein. IRGM1 overexpression in SAH-modeled BV2 cells increased cell viability, reduced TUNEL-positive cells, upregulated Bcl-2 and downregulated Bax, decreased reactive oxygen species and malondialdehyde levels, increased superoxide dismutase activity, and suppressed interleukin-1 beta/interleukin-18 release as well as cleaved gasdermin D (GSDMD-N), NOD-like receptor family pyrin domain-containing 3, and caspase-1 expression. NR3C1 mRNA and protein were decreased in SAH-induced BV2 cells; it bound to the IRGM1 promoter and regulated its transcriptional activity. NR3C1 overexpression upregulated IRGM1, ameliorated SAH-induced cell viability loss, apoptosis, oxidative stress, and inflammation/pyroptosis activation, whereas IRGM1 silencing reversed these protective effects. In vivo , NR3C1 overexpression alleviated neuronal injury, improved neurological scores, and reduced brain water content, with no significant difference in SAH grade among groups.NR3C1 transcriptionally activated IRGM1 to inhibit inflammation, pyroptosis, and oxidative stress, thereby alleviating EBI after SAH, and targeting the NR3C1/IRGM1 axis might provide a novel therapeutic strategy for SAH.Copyright © 2026 by the Shock Society.
Pancreatic cancer remains highly lethal, largely due to late diagnosis and limited efficacy of treatments. Improving first-line treatment selection and patient monitoring requires novel, non-invasive biomarkers beyond carbohydrate antigen 19-9 (CA19-9) and imaging. This study investigates epigenetic biomarkers from liquid biopsy with prognostic and predictive potential in metastatic pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC; mPDAC). Genome-wide methylation profiling of cell-free DNA (cfDNA) from healthy individuals and stage IV mPDAC patients identified 13 gene-associated CpG sites with significantly altered methylation patterns. ddPCR validation confirmed consistent methylation differences in lymphocyte transmembrane adaptor 1 (LAX1), nuclear receptor subfamily 3 group C member 1 (NR3C1), and RCAN3 between healthy and patient groups. Elevated LAX1 and RCAN3 methylation and reduced NR3C1 methylation at diagnosis were associated with poor prognosis and correlated with high-risk circulating biomarker profiles, including CA19-9 levels, RAS MAF (mutant allele fraction), cfDNA concentration, and cfDNA fragmentation. Notably, baseline NR3C1 methylation levels predicted response to first-line FOLFIRINOX-based treatment with an acceptable 75% sensitivity and a high specificity of 92.86%. These findings highlight the clinical significance of cfDNA methylation as a minimally invasive biomarker source, emphasizing LAX1, NR3C1, and RCAN3 as prognostic biomarkers in mPDAC. Specifically, baseline NR3C1 methylation emerges as a promising predictor of treatment response, supporting personalized therapeutic strategies in mPDAC.© 2026 The Author(s). MedComm published by Sichuan International Medical Exchange & Promotion Association (SCIMEA) and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Pituitary adenomas (PAs) are common intracranial tumours, and invasiveness in nonfunctioning invasive pituitary adenomas (NIPAs) predicts poor prognosis. The molecular mechanisms driving this phenotype remain unclear. This study explored the role of nuclear receptor subfamily 3 group C member 1 (NR3C1) in NIPA invasiveness and its regulation of Wnt signalling. mRNA expression profiles of 32 PA samples were generated by RNA-seq, and proteomic data from 19 samples were obtained by mass spectrometry. Immune-related differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were retrieved from GeneCards. Weighted gene coexpression network analysis identified modules and hub genes linked to invasiveness, while machine learning methods (support vector machine, LASSO, random forest) prioritised key genes. Gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) assessed pathways associated with candidate gene expression. NR3C1 expression and function were validated by immunohistochemistry, Western blotting and invasion assays. Integration of transcriptomic, proteomic and immune-related datasets yielded 11 overlapping genes, with NR3C1 emerging as the top candidate. NR3C1 was significantly upregulated in NIPAs and demonstrated good discriminatory power by ROC analysis. GSEA associated high NR3C1 expression with Wnt pathway activation. Functional experiments confirmed that NR3C1 overexpression enhances the invasive capacity of PA cells. NR3C1 promotes the invasive phenotype of NIPAs by activating Wnt signalling. These findings suggest NR3C1 as a potential biomarker and therapeutic target for invasive pituitary adenomas.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Chronic fluorosis can cause injury to the central nervous system. Because fat mass and obesity-associated protein (FTO) connected with demethylation of N6-methyladenosine (m6A) plays a crucial role in maintaining brain function, we examined whether FTO might help resist the neurotoxicity of fluoride. Sprague-Dawley rats with chronic fluorosis and cultured nerve cells exposed to fluoride with overexpression or knockdown of FTO were employed. The Morris water maze test was employed to assess learning and memory. Expressions of FTO, m6A, postsynaptic density protein 95 (PSD95) and α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid receptors (AMPARs) and its subunit GluR2 mRNA stability, apoptosis, and reactive oxygen species (ROS) were determined by Western blotting, RT-PCR, and biochemical methods, respectively. The results showed that the impaired learning and memory of rats with chronic fluorosis, the decreased FTO, PSD95 and AMPARs, the elevated m6A, and the disrupted synapse morphology as well as apoptosis in their brains were determined. Similar abnormal changes were further confirmed in primary neurons and SH-SY5Y cells exposed to fluoride, accompanied by a significant decline of GluR2 and high ROS. Notably, overexpression of FTO reduced m6A, enhanced GluR2, and attenuated neurotoxicity induced by fluoride, whereas knockdown had the opposite effects. FTO can alleviate the neurotoxicity induced by fluoride, in which the mechanism may be involved in its regulating m6A to enhance expression of GluR2.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society of Toxicology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Abnormal expression of glutamate receptors is believed to be associated with myopia. However, it is currently unclear which genes contribute to the occurrence of such diseases. This study aims to investigate the effects of glutamate receptor-related genes family on ocular growth and development in zebrafish.Morpholino oligonucleotide injection, CRISPR/Cas9 genome editing, quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction, eye parameter measurements, visual motor responses, optokinetic responses, immunofluorescent staining, TUNEL assays, and Haematoxylin-Eosin staining were utilized to evaluate the alterations in the eyes following the deletion of grik1, gria4a, gria4b, grm5a, and grm5b.It was observed that, after silencing gria4a, gria4b, and grm5a, the eyes were smaller, but the axial length to equatorial axis ratio increased significantly, indicating impaired eye growth and a tendency toward myopia. Furthermore, a reduction in choroidal vascular endothelial fluorescence and a decrease in eye movement frequency were consistent with the previously mentioned results. Additionally, the deletion of grik1, gria4a, gria4b, grm5a, and grm5b led to reduced fluorescence in bipolar cells, amacrine cells, and RPE cells, as well as diminished ON and OFF responses in the visual motor responses.Glutamate receptor-related genes, especially gria4a, gria4b, and grm5a, are likely involved in the onset of myopia and the regulation of visual development. The role of glutamate receptors in the onset and progression of myopia warrants further investigation.
This study aims to investigate the mechanism of Qingrun Decoction in alleviating hepatic insulin resistance in type 2 diabetes mellitus(T2DM) rats through the reprogramming of amino acid metabolism. A T2DM rat model was established by inducing insulin resistance through a high-fat diet combined with intraperitoneal injection of streptozotocin. The model rats were randomly divided into five groups: model group, high-, medium-, and low-dose Qingrun Decoction groups, and metformin group. A normal control group was also established. The rats in the normal and model groups received 10 mL·kg~(-1) distilled water daily by gavage. The metformin group received 150 mg·kg~(-1) metformin suspension by gavage, and the Qingrun Decoction groups received 11.2, 5.6, and 2.8 g·kg~(-1) Qingrun Decoction by gavage for 8 weeks. Blood lipid levels were measured in different groups of rats. Pathological damage in rat liver tissue was assessed by hematoxylin-eosin(HE) staining and oil red O staining. Transcriptome sequencing and untargeted metabolomics were performed on rat liver and serum samples, integrated with bioinformatics analyses. Key metabolites(branched-chain amino acids, BCAAs), amino acid transporters, amino acid metabolites, critical enzymes for amino acid metabolism, resistin, adiponectin(ADPN), and mammalian target of rapamycin(mTOR) pathway-related molecules were quantified using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction(qRT-PCR), Western blot, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay(ELISA). The results showed that compared with the normal group, the model group had significantly increased serum levels of total cholesterol(TC), triglycerides(TG), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol(LDL-C), and resistin and significantly decreased ADPN levels. Hepatocytes in the model group exhibited loose arrangement, significant lipid accumulation, fatty degeneration, and pronounced inflammatory cell infiltration. In liver tissue, the mRNA transcriptional levels of solute carrier family 7 member 2(Slc7a2), solute carrier family 38 member 2(Slc38a2), solute carrier family 38 member 4(Slc38a4), and arginase(ARG) were significantly downregulated, while the mRNA transcriptional levels of solute carrier family 1 member 4(Slc1a4), solute carrier family 16 member 1(Slc16a1), and methionine adenosyltransferase(MAT) were upregulated. Furthermore, the mRNA transcription and protein expression levels of branched-chain α-keto acid dehydrogenase E1α(BCKDHA) and DEP domain-containing mTOR-interacting protein(DEPTOR) were downregulated, while mRNA transcription and protein expression levels of mTOR, as well as ribosomal protein S6 kinase 1(S6K1), were upregulated. The levels of BCAAs and S-adenosyl-L-methionine(SAM) were elevated. The serum level of 6-hydroxymelatonin was significantly reduced, while imidazole-4-one-5-propionic acid and N-(5-phospho-D-ribosyl)anthranilic acid levels were significantly increased. Compared with the model group, Qingrun Decoction significantly reduced blood lipid and resistin levels while increasing ADPN levels. Hepatocytes had improved morphology with reduced inflammatory cells, and fatty degeneration and lipid deposition were alleviated. Differentially expressed genes and differential metabolites were mainly enriched in amino acid metabolic pathways. The expression levels of Slc7a2, Slc38a2, Slc38a4, and ARG in the liver tissue were significantly upregulated, while Slc1a4, Slc16a1, and MAT expression levels were significantly downregulated. BCKDHA and DEPTOR expression levels were upregulated, while mTOR and S6K1 expression levels were downregulated. Additionally, the levels of BCAAs and SAM were significantly decreased. The serum level of 6-hydroxymelatonin was increased, while those of imidazole-4-one-5-propionic acid and N-(5-phospho-D-ribosyl)anthranilic acid were decreased. In summary, Qingrun Decoction may improve amino acid metabolism reprogramming, inhibit mTOR pathway activation, alleviate insulin resistance in the liver, and mitigate pathological damage of liver tissue in T2DM rats by downregulating hepatic BCAAs and SAM and regulating key enzymes involved in amino acid metabolism, such as BCKDHA, ARG, and MAT, as well as amino acid metabolites and transporters.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40076728 is a review article
This study was conducted to investigate the effect of dietary multi-enzyme (MCPC) supplementation on synergistically enhancing the functions of both the foregut and hindgut, ultimately improving the nutrient digestion and utilization throughout the gastrointestinal tract. In vitro results demonstrated that MCPC increased the phosphorus and reducing sugar levels in the supernatant during enzymatic hydrolysis. Furthermore, during the fermentation of the enzymatic hydrolysis products, MCPC significantly increased the FRD0 value of the enzymatic hydrolysis products from both the positive control (PC) and negative control 1 (NC1) diets (p < 0.05). MCPC reduced the T1/2 value of in vitro fermentation products from the PC diet (p < 0.01), and decreased the VF (p = 0.082) and K (p < 0.05) values for the NC1 diet. Additionally, 72 crossbred barrows [Duroc × (Landrace × Yorkshire)], weighing 25 kg, were fed one of six diets until their live weight approached 50 kg. The basal diets consisted of PC, NC1 and negative control 2 (NC2), while the remaining three diets were prepared by adding 100 mg/kg MCPC to the respective basal diets. The results showed that MCPC supplementation significantly upregulated the expression of solute carrier family 17 member 4 (SLC17A4) and vitamin D receptor (VDR) genes in the duodenum (p < 0.05), while downregulating the expression of Calbindin-D28k (CaBP-D28K) and solute carrier family 1 member 4 (SLC1A4) genes (p < 0.05) in growing pigs. Moreover, MCPC supplementation significantly upregulated the expression of VDR, glucose transporter 2 (GLUT2) and intestinal fatty acid binding protein (FABP2) genes in the jejunum of growing pigs. Furthermore, MCPC supplementation significantly increased the relative abundances of Bacteroidota, Prevotella and Phascolarctobacterium (p < 0.05), while reducing the relative abundances of Verrucomicrobiota and Clostridium_sensu_stricto_1 (p < 0.05) in the colon of growing pigs. In conclusion, MCPC enhances nutrient digestion and absorption in the foregut, provides fermentable substrates for hindgut microbial fermentation, and improves gut microbiota composition. This improves hindgut fermentation and supports the synergistic interaction between the foregut and hindgut, ultimately improving nutrient utilization and benefiting animal health.Copyright © 2025 Chen, Zhao, Huang, Zhuo, Xu, Lin, Che, Feng, Wu and Fang.
Real-time and non-invasive monitoring of neuronal differentiation will help increase our understanding of neuronal development and help develop regenerative stem cell therapies for neurodegenerative diseases. Traditionally, reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), western blotting, and immunofluorescence (IF) staining have been widely used to investigate stem cell differentiation; however, their limitations include endpoint analysis, invasive nature of monitoring, and lack of single-cell-level resolution. Several limitations hamper current approaches to studying neural stem cell (NSC) differentiation. In particular, fixation and staining procedures can introduce artificial changes in cellular morphology, hindering our ability to accurately monitor the progression of the process and fully understand its functional aspects, particularly those related to cellular connectivity and neural network formation. Herein, we report a novel approach to monitor neuronal differentiation of NSCs non-invasively in real-time using cell-based biosensors (CBBs). Our research efforts focused on utilizing intein-mediated protein engineering to design and construct a highly sensitive biosensor capable of detecting a biomarker of neuronal differentiation, hippocalcin. Hippocalcin is a critical protein involved in neurogenesis, and the CBB functions by translocating a fluorescence signal to report the presence of hippocalcin externally. To construct the hippocalcin sensor proteins, hippocalcin bioreceptors, AP2 and glutamate ionotropic receptor AMPA-type subunit 2 (GRIA2), were fused to each split-intein carrying split-nuclear localization signal (NLS) peptides, respectively, and a fluorescent protein was introduced as a reporter. Protein splicing (PS) was triggered in the presence of hippocalcin to generate functional signal peptides, which promptly translocated the fluorescence signal to the nucleus. The stem cell-based biosensor showed fluorescence signal translocation only upon neuronal differentiation. Undifferentiated stem cells or cells that had differentiated into astrocytes or oligodendrocytes did not show fluorescence signal translocation. The number of differentiated neurons was consistent with that measured by conventional IF staining. Furthermore, this approach allowed for the monitoring of neuronal differentiation at an earlier stage than that detected using conventional approaches, and the translocation of fluorescence signal was monitored before the noticeable expression of class III β-tubulin (TuJ1), an early neuronal differentiation marker. We believe that these novel CBBs offer an alternative to current techniques by capturing the dynamics of differentiation progress at the single-cell level and by providing a tool to evaluate how NSCs efficiently differentiate into specific cell types, particularly neurons.
Solute carrier family 1 member 4 (SLC1A4), also referred to as Alanine/Serine/Cysteine/Threonine-preferring Transporter 1 (ASCT1), is a sodium-dependent neutral amino acid transporter. It is expressed in many tissues, including the brain, where it is expressed primarily on astrocytes and plays key roles in neuronal differentiation and development, maintaining neurotransmitter homeostasis, and N-methyl-D-aspartate neurotransmission, through regulation of L- and D-serine. Mutations in SLC1A4 are associated with the rare autosomal recessive neurodevelopmental disorder spastic tetraplegia, thin corpus callosum, and progressive microcephaly (SPATCCM, OMIM 616657). Psychomotor development and speech are significantly impaired in these patients, and many develop seizures. We generated and characterized a knock-in mouse model for the most common mutant allele, which results in a single amino acid change (p.Glu256Lys, or E256K). Homozygous mutants had increased D-serine uptake in the brain, microcephaly, and thin corpus callosum and cortex layer 1. While p.E256K homozygotes showed some significant differences in exploratory behavior relative to wildtype mice, their performance in assays for motor coordination, endurance, learning, and memory was normal, and they showed no significant differences in long-term potentiation. Taken together, these results indicate that the impact of the p.E256K mutation on cognition and motor function is minimal in mice, but other aspects of SLC1A4 function in the brain are conserved. Mice homozygous for p.E256K may be a good model for understanding the developmental basis of the corpus callosum and microcephaly phenotypes observed in SPATCCM patients and assessing whether they are rescued by serine supplementation.© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
The ketamine metabolite (2R,6R)-hydroxynorketamine ([2R,6R]-HNK) has analgesic efficacy in murine models of acute, neuropathic, and chronic pain. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the α-amino-3-hydroxyl-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionate (AMPA) dependence of (2R,6R)-HNK analgesia and protein changes in the hippocampus in murine pain models administered (2R,6R)-HNK or saline.All mice were CD-1 IGS outbred mice. Male and female mice underwent plantar incision (PI) (n = 60), spared nerve injury (SNI) (n = 64), or tibial fracture (TF) (n = 40) surgery on the left hind limb. Mechanical allodynia was assessed using calibrated von Frey filaments. Mice were randomized to receive saline, naloxone, or the brain-penetrating AMPA blocker (1,2,3,4-Tetrahydro-6-nitro-2,3-dioxobenzo [f]quinoxaline-7-sulfonamide [NBQX]) before (2R,6R)-HNK 10 mg/kg, and this was repeated for 3 consecutive days. The area under the paw withdrawal threshold by time curve for days 0 to 3 (AUC 0-3d ) was calculated using trapezoidal integration. The AUC 0-3d was converted to percent antiallodynic effect using the baseline and pretreatment values as 0% and 100%. In separate experiments, a single dose of (2R,6R)-HNK 10 mg/kg or saline was administered to naive mice (n = 20) and 2 doses to PI (n = 40), SNI injury (n = 40), or TF (n = 40) mice. Naive mice were tested for ambulation, rearing, and motor strength. Immunoblot studies of the right hippocampal tissue were performed to evaluate the ratios of glutamate ionotropic receptor (AMPA) type subunit 1 (GluA1), glutamate ionotropic receptor (AMPA) type subunit 2 (GluA2), phosphorylated voltage-gated potassium channel 2.1 (p-Kv2.1), phosphorylated-calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (p-CaMKII), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), phosphorylated protein kinase B (p-AKT), phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase (p-ERK), CXC chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4), phosphorylated eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2 subunit 1 (p-EIF2SI), and phosphorylated eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E (p-EIF4E) to glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH).No model-specific gender difference in antiallodynic responses before (2R,6R)-HNK administration was observed. The antiallodynic AUC 0-3d of (2R,6R)-HNK was decreased by NBQX but not with pretreatment with naloxone or saline. The adjusted mean (95% confidence interval [CI]) antiallodynic effect of (2R,6R)-HNK in the PI, SNI, and TF models was 40.7% (34.1%-47.3%), 55.1% (48.7%-61.5%), and 54.7% (46.5%-63.0%), greater in the SNI, difference 14.3% (95% CI, 3.1-25.6; P = .007) and TF, difference 13.9% (95% CI, 1.9-26.0; P = .019) compared to the PI model. No effect of (2R,6R)-HNK on ambulation, rearing, or motor coordination was observed. Administration of (2R,6R)-HNK was associated with increased GluA1, GluA2, p-Kv2.1, and p-CaMKII and decreased BDNF ratios in the hippocampus, with model-specific variations in proteins involved in other pain pathways.(2R,6R)-HNK analgesia is AMPA-dependent, and (2R,6R)-HNK affected glutamate, potassium, calcium, and BDNF pathways in the hippocampus. At 10 mg/kg, (2R,6R)-HNK demonstrated a greater antiallodynic effect in models of chronic compared with acute pain. Protein analysis in the hippocampus suggests that AMPA-dependent alterations in BDNF-TrkB and Kv2.1 pathways may be involved in the antiallodynic effect of (2R,6R)-HNK.Copyright © 2023 International Anesthesia Research Society.
SLC1A4 (solute carrier family 1 member 4, also referred to as ASCT1, Alanine/Serine/Cysteine/Threonine-preferring Transporter 1) is a sodium-dependent neutral amino acid transporter. It is highly expressed in many tissues, including the brain, where it is expressed primarily on astrocytes and plays key roles in neuronal differentiation and development, maintaining neurotransmitter homeostasis, and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) neurotransmission, through regulation of L- and D-serine. Mutations in SLC1A4 are associated with the rare autosomal recessive neurodevelopmental disorder spastic tetraplegia, thin corpus callosum, and progressive microcephaly (SPATCCM, OMIM 616657). Psychomotor development and speech are significantly impaired in these patients, and many develop seizures. We generated and characterized a knock-in mouse model for the most common mutant allele, which results in a single amino acid change (p.Glu256Lys, or E256K). Homozygous mutants had increased D-serine uptake in the brain, microcephaly, and thin corpus callosum and cortex layer 1. While p.E256K homozygotes showed some significant differences in exploratory behavior relative to wildtype mice, their performance in assays for motor coordination, endurance, learning, and memory was normal, and they showed no significant differences in long-term potentiation. Taken together, these results indicate that some aspects of SLC1A4 function in brain development are conserved between mice and humans, but the impact of the p.E256K mutation on cognition and motor function is minimal in mice.
2-Arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG), the most abundant endocannabinoid, displays anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective properties. Inhibition of 2-AG degradation by inactivation of monoacylglycerol lipase (MAGL), a key enzyme degrading 2-AG in the brain, alleviates neuropathology and improves synaptic and cognitive functions in animal models of neurodegenerative diseases. In particular, global inactivation of MAGL by genetic deletion of mgll enhances hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) and hippocampus-dependent learning and memory. However, our understanding of the molecular mechanisms by which chronic inactivation of MAGL enhances synaptic activity is still limited. Here, we provide evidence that pharmacological inactivation of MAGL suppresses hippocampal expression of miR-30b, a small non-coding microRNA, and upregulates expression of its targets, including ephrin type-B receptor 2 (ephB2), sirtuin1 (sirt1), and glutamate ionotropic receptor AMPA type subunit 2 (GluA2). Importantly, suppression of miR-30b and increase of its targets by inactivation of MAGL result primarily from inhibition of 2-AG metabolism in astrocytes, rather than in neurons. Inactivation of MAGL in astrocytes prevents miR-30b overexpression-induced impairments in synaptic transmission and long-term potentiation (LTP) in the hippocampus. Suppression of miR-30b expression by inactivation of MAGL is apparently associated with augmentation of 2-AG signaling, as 2-AG induces a dose-dependent decrease in expression of miR-30b. 2-AG- or MAGL inactivation-suppressed expression of miR-30b is not mediated via CB1R, but by peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPARγ). This is further supported by the results showing that MAGL inactivation-induced downregulation of miR-30b and upregulation of its targets are attenuated by antagonism of PPARγ, but mimicked by PPARγ agonists. In addition, we observed that 2-AG-induced reduction of miR-30b expression is mediated via NF-kB signaling. Our study provides evidence that 2-AG signaling in astrocytes plays an important role in maintaining the functional integrity of synapses in the hippocampus by regulation of miR-30b expression.Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Fibromyalgia (FM) is a chronic pain syndrome characterized by central sensitization, in which glutamatergic and purinergic signaling pathways are thought to play critical roles. This study aimed to evaluate the diagnostic potential of serum glutamate ionotropic receptor N-methyl-D-aspartate type subunit 1 (GRIN1), purinergic receptor P2X 1 (P2RX1), and purinergic receptor P2Y 2 (P2RY2) levels in patients with FM. A total of 93 newly diagnosed FM patients and 93 age- and sex-matched healthy controls were included in the study. Serum levels of GRIN1, P2RX1, and P2RY2 were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis was performed to assess the diagnostic performance of these biomarkers. ROC analysis demonstrated good diagnostic accuracy for all three biomarkers. The area under the curve (AUC) values were 0.817 for GRIN1, 0.778 for P2RX1, and 0.842 for P2RY2 (p < 0.001 for all). At optimal cut-off values, GRIN1, P2RX1, and P2RY2 showed sensitivities of 91.4%, 78.5%, and 92.5%, and specificities of 72.00%, 75.3%, and 80.6%, respectively. Serum GRIN1, P2RX1, and P2RY2 levels exhibit strong diagnostic performance in FM and may serve as promising biomarkers reflecting altered glutamatergic and purinergic signaling in disease pathophysiology.
Soybean (Glycine max) plants counteract soybean cyst nematode (SCN, Heterodera glycines Ichinohe) infection through an impairment of soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor (NSF) attachment protein (α-SNAP) - NSF interactions and vesicular trafficking leading to cellular toxicity in response to nematode feeding. Through the use of a bi-parental mapping population from a cross between the SCN-resistant soybean cultivars Pickett × Peking, a major QTL on chromosome 14 was mapped to a confidence interval containing the GmSNAP14 gene. SCN-resistant genotypes were found to carry one of two variant GmSNAP14 alleles harboring either a deletion or an insertion in GmSNAP14. Expression of full-length transcripts was absent or markedly lower in plants carrying these alleles when compared to susceptible plants. Additionally, the generation of deleted and/or alternatively spliced isoforms coding for GmSNAP14 C-terminal variant proteins was pronounced in resistant plants, suggesting that SCN resistance may result from a combination of diminished GmSNAP14 expression and GmSNAP14 protein variants. CRISPR/Cas9-mediated knockout of GmSNAP14 enhanced resistance to SCN, consistent with susceptibility gene behavior indicating GmSNAP14 as a potential nematode virulence target. Our findings can be leveraged through the use of genome editing and conventional breeding techniques utilizing native alleles to develop resistant soybean cultivars.© 2026 The Author(s). New Phytologist © 2026 New Phytologist Foundation. This article has been contributed to by U.S. Government employees and their work is in the public domain in the USA.
Addressing the concurrent repair of cartilage and subchondral bone presents a significant challenge yet is crucial for the effective treatment of severe joint injuries. This study introduces a novel biodegradable composite scaffold, integrating piezoelectric poly-l-lactic acid (pPLLA) with strontium-enriched silicate bioceramic (SrSiO3). This innovative scaffold continually releases bioactive Sr2+ and SiO32- ions while generating an electrical charge under low-intensity pulsed ultrasound (LIPUS) stimulation, a clinically recognized method. The scaffold's unique dual action, emanating both chemical and electrical signals, activates the purinergic receptor P2X 1 (P2RX1) calcium ion channel, promoting an influx of intracellular calcium ions. This process results in a synergistic enhancement of both chondrogenic activities of rat chondrocytes (rCCs) and osteogenic activities of rat bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (rBMSCs). Furthermore, the scaffold's effectiveness in integrating articular cartilage and subchondral bone repair is confirmed in a rat model of joint osteochondral injury. This study thereby offers a groundbreaking approach for treating severe osteoarticular cartilage defects.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Hepatic macrophages and regulatory T cells (Tregs) play an important role in the maintenance of liver immune homeostasis, but the mechanism by which hepatic macrophages regulate Tregs in acute liver injury remains largely unknown. Here, we found that the hepatic Treg proportion and β-catenin expression in hepatic macrophages were associated with acetaminophen- and d-galactosamine/LPS-induced acute liver injury. Interestingly, β-catenin was markedly upregulated only in infiltrating macrophages but not in resident Kupffer cells. Myeloid-specific β-catenin-knockout mice showed an increased inflammatory cell infiltration and hepatocyte apoptosis. Moreover, myeloid β-catenin deficiency decreased the hepatic Treg proportion in the injured liver. Mechanistically, in vitro coculture experiments revealed that macrophage β-catenin modulated its exosome composition and influenced Treg differentiation. Using mass spectrometry-based proteomics, we identified that macrophage β-catenin activation increased the level of exosomal alpha soluble NSF attachment protein (α-SNAP), which in turn promoted Treg differentiation. Overall, our findings demonstrated a molecular mechanism that macrophage β-catenin regulated the Treg proportion in the liver by enhancing the expression of exosomal α-SNAP, providing insights into the pathophysiology of acute liver injury.
This study aims at  screening and validation of prospective genetic signature for lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) prognosis and treatment.The immune-related genes (IRGs) were obtained from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) dataset where a total of 535 LUAD and 59 control samples were included. A risk model was then developed for the risk stratification of LUAD patients.  The immune cell infiltration, clinical outcomes, and the therapeutic efficacy of programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) and its ligand (PD-L1) blockade were compared between high and low-risk groups. Gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) and gene set variation analysis (GSVA) were used to explore the biological processes and signalling pathways associated with the IRGs. Finally, IRGs mRNA levels were assayed by reverse transcription quantitative real-time PCR (RT-qPCR) in LUAD and relevant cell lines.Two IRGs, P2RX1 (purinergic receptor P2X 1) and PCP4 (Purkinje cell protein 4), were screened from a module that possesses the highest correlation with plasma cells. RT-qPCR verified the expression of the two IRGs in plasmacytoma cell RPMI 8226 but not in LUAD cells. A higher risk score is associated with a lower infiltration of immune cells. Kaplan-Meier and nomogram analysis showed that the high-risk group has a lower survival rate than the low-risk cohort. Furthermore, the high-risk group had a worse response rate to PD-L1/PD-1 blockade. GSVA and GSEA-GO results indicated that a lower risk score is linked to signalling pathways and biological functions promoting immune response and inflammation. In contrast, a higher risk score is associated with signalling cascades promoting tumour growth.The immune-related prognostic model based on P2RX1 and PCP4 is conducive to predicting the therapeutic response of PD-L1/PD-1 blockade and clinical outcomes of LUAD.© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Purinergic signaling-mediated mitochondria dysfunction and innate immune-mediated inflammation act as triggers during acetaminophen (APAP)-induced liver injury (AILI). However, the underlying mechanisms by which purinoceptor regulates mitochondria function and inflammation response in the progression of AILI remains unclear.First, the hepatic level of purinergic receptor P2X 1 (P2RX1) was identified in the DILI patients and APAP-induced WT mice. P2rx1 knockout (KO) mice (P2rx1-/-) with 300 mg/kg APAP challenge were used for the analysis of the potential role of P2RX1 in the progression of AILI. Administration of DMX, the activator of stimulator of interferon genes (STING), was performed to investigate the effects of the STING-related pathway on APAP-treated P2rx1-/- mice.The elevated hepatic P2RX1 levels were found in DILI patients and the AILI mice. P2rx1 depletion offered protection against the initial stages of AILI, mainly by inhibiting cell death and promoting inflammation resolution, which was associated with alleviating mitochondria dysfunction. Mechanistically, P2rx1 depletion could inhibit STING-TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1)-P65 signaling pathways in vivo. We then showed that DMX-mediated STING activation could greatly aggravate the liver injury of P2rx1-/- mice treated with APAP.Our data confirmed that P2RX1 was inducted during AILI, identified P2RX1 as a novel regulator in mitochondria dysfunction and STING pathways, and suggested a promising therapeutic approach for AILI involving the blockade of P2RX1. 1. It first demonstrated the protective effects of P2rx1 deficiency on acetaminophen-induced liver injury (AILI). 2. P2rx1 knockout alleviates mitochondria function and promotes inflammation resolution after APAP treatment. 3. It first reported the regulation of P2RX1 on the STING signaling pathway in the progress of AILI. 4. P2RX1 blockade is a promising therapeutic strategy for AILI.© 2023. The Author(s).
Loss of the furin cleavage motif in the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein reduces the virulence and transmission of SARS-CoV-2, suggesting that furin is an attractive antiviral drug target. However, lack of understanding of the regulation of furin activity has largely limited the development of furin-based therapeutic strategies. Here, we find that alpha-soluble NSF attachment protein (α-SNAP), an indispensable component of vesicle trafficking machinery, inhibits the cleavage of SARS-CoV-2 spike protein and other furin-dependent virus glycoproteins. SARS-CoV-2 infection increases the expression of α-SNAP, and overexpression of α-SNAP reduces SARS-CoV-2 infection in cells. We further reveal that α-SNAP is an interferon-upregulated furin inhibitor that inhibits furin function by interacting with its P domain. Our study demonstrates that α-SNAP, in addition to its role in vesicle trafficking, plays an important role in the host defense against furin-dependent virus infection and therefore could be a target for the development of therapeutic options for COVID-19. IMPORTANCE Some key mutations of SARS-CoV-2 spike protein, such as D614G and P681R mutations, increase the transmission or pathogenicity by enhancing the cleavage efficacy of spike protein by furin. Loss of the furin cleavage motif of SARS-CoV-2 spike protein reduces the virulence and transmission, suggesting that furin is an attractive antiviral drug target. However, lack of understanding of the regulation of furin activity has largely limited the development of furin-based therapeutic strategies. Here, we found that in addition to its canonical role in vesicle trafficking, alpha-soluble NSF attachment protein (α-SNAP) plays an important role in the host defense against furin-dependent virus infection. we identified that α-SNAP is a novel interferon-upregulated furin inhibitor and inhibits the cleavage of SARS-CoV-2 spike protein and other furin-dependent virus glycoproteins by interacting with P domain of furin. Our study demonstrates that α-SNAP could be a target for the development of therapeutic options for COVID-19.
Broflanilide is a novel pesticide that can antagonize ion channels and disrupt neurotransmitter systems in the brain. Zebrafish larvae were exposed to either 0, 1 or 10- µg/L broflanilide in the water for a period of 7 days during early development. RNA extraction was conducted on larval zebrafish for RNA-seq analysis using the Illumina NovoSeq 6000. Raw sequence data were processed through fastp and clean reads obtained by removing adapter and poly-N sequences. Alignment and differential gene expression analysis was conducted using HISAT2, StringTie assembler, and FPKM (Fragments Per Kilobase of transcript sequence per Millions base pairs sequenced). Subnetwork enrichment analysis (SNEA) revealed that exposure to 1 µg/L broflanilide altered gene networks associated with axonal injury, depression, neuroinflammation, and traumatic brain injury while exposure to 10- µg/L broflanilide resulted in changes in gene networks associated with brain infarction and ischemia, excitotoxicity, and neurogenic inflammation. In addition, genes related to MPTP-induced neurotoxicity were altered by broflanilide which has relevance for Parkinson's disease. Several transcripts were identified as being associated with a disease network link to neurodegeneration and included phospholipase A2 activating protein, calpain 1, ATPase Na+/K+ transporting subunit alpha 2, glia maturation factor beta, sphingomyelin phosphodiesterase 1, leucine rich repeat kinase 2, glutamate ionotropic receptor NMDA type subunit 2C, lysosomal associated membrane protein, and calcium/calmodulin dependent protein kinase II alpha among others. Data presented here include disease biomarkers for a novel pesticide and can be reused to refine models that describe adverse outcome pathways for neurotoxicity.© 2023 The Author(s).
Prostate cancer is one of the most common cancers in men and poses a significant threat to global male health. Traditional prostate cancer assessment methods have certain limitations, necessitating the identification of new prognostic factors and treatment targets. Our study revealed that low expression of the cornichon family AMPA receptor auxiliary protein 2 (CNIH2) gene was associated with a better progression-free survival rate in prostate cancer patients. The area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve (AUC) showed that the prognostic ability of the CNIH2 gene was high at 1, 3, and 5 years. The gene was an independent prognostic factor according to multivariate analysis. Functional verification experiments showed that knocking down the CNIH2 gene could inhibit the proliferation, migration and invasion of prostate cancer cells and could also inhibit tumor growth in nude mice. Our study is the first to reveal the important role of the CNIH2 gene in prostate cancer. This discovery provides a new research direction for individualized treatment and prognostic evaluation of prostate cancer.© 2024. The Author(s).
Alternative polyadenylation (APA), an important post-transcriptional regulatory mechanism, is aberrantly activated in cancer，but how APA functions in tumorigenesis remains elusive. We analyzed APA events in RNA-seq data in TCGA and reported 3'UTR alterations associated with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) patient prognosis and gene expression changes involving loss of tumor-suppressive miRNA binding sites. Moreover, we investigated the expression and function of cleavage and polyadenylation specific factor 3 (CPSF3), a key APA regulator in ESCC. By immunohistochemistry and qRT-PCR, we found that CPSF3 was highly expressed in ESCC tissues and associated with poor patient prognosis. Overexpression of CPSF3 enhanced, while knockdown of CPSF3 inhibited ESCC cell proliferation and migration in vitro and in vivo, as determined by colony formation, transwell assays and animal experiments. Iso-Seq and RNA-seq data analysis indicated that knockdown of CPSF3 favored use of the distal poly (A) site in the 3'UTR of Cornichon family AMPA receptor auxiliary protein 2 (CNIH2), resulting in a long-3'UTR CNIH2 isoform that produced less CNIH2 protein due to miR-125a-5p targeting and downregulating CNIH2 mRNA through a miR-125a-5p binding site in the long CNIH2 mRNA 3'UTR. Moreover, CPSF3-induced ESCC tumorigenicity was mediated by CNIH2. Taken together, CPSF3 promotes ESCC progression by upregulating CNIH2 expression through loss of miR-125a-5p-mediated CNIH2 repression through alternative splicing and polyadenylation of the CNIH2 mRNA 3'UTR.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Aberrant expression of UNC13C (Unc-13 Homolog C) has been observed during the progression of oral squamous cell carcinoma. However, the expression pattern and clinical relevance of UNC13C in Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remain to be elucidated. The purpose of this study is to examine UNC13C expression in HCC and explore its role in clinicopathological factor or prognosis in HCC. Two hundred and sixty-five patients diagnosed with HCC were included in the present study. The expression of UNC13C in HCC tissues was analyzed by immunohistochemistry analysis. The relationship between UNC13C protein and clinicopathological characteristics in HCC was investigated. Moreover, the high expression of UNC13C was significantly correlated with T stage, AJCC stage and overall survival rates. Cox regression analysis identified UNC13C as an independent prognostic indicator for HCC patients. UNC13C might be a prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target in HCC. Further studies with larger sample sets are needed to understand the clinical implications of UNC13C in hepatocellular carcinoma.© The author(s).
The objective of the current study was to analyze expression levels of synapse differentiation inducing 1-like (SYNDIG1L) and unc-13 homolog C (UNC13C) genes in different tissues, while single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of two genes were associated with multiple thoracic vertebrae traits in both Small-tailed Han sheep (STH) and Sunite sheep (SNT). The expression levels of SYNDIG1L and UNC13C were analyzed in the brain, cerebellum, heart, liver, spleen, lung, kidney, adrenal gland, uterine horn, longissimus muscle, and abdominal adipose tissues of two sheep breeds with different thoracic vertebral number (TVN) sheep (T13 groups and T14 groups) by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR). Meanwhile, the polymorphisms of UNC13C gene g.52919279C > T and SYNDIG1L gene g.82573325C > A in T14 and T13 were genotyped by the Sequenom MassARRAY® SNP assay, and association analysis was performed with the TVN. The results demonstrated that UNC13C gene was extensively expressed in 11 tissues. The expression of UNC13C gene in longissimus muscle of T14 groups of STH was significantly higher than that of T13 groups ( P<0.05 ). SYNDIG1L gene was overexpressed in brain and cerebellum tissues, and the expression level of UNC13C gene in the brain and cerebellum of T13 groups in SNT was significantly higher than that of T14 groups ( P<0.01 ). Association analysis showed that SNPs found in the UNC13C gene had no significant effects on TVN for both two genes. The polymorphism of SYNDIG1L g.82573325C > A was significantly correlated with the TVN in both STH ( P<0.05 ) and SNT ( P<0.01 ). Taken together, the SYNDIG1L gene was related to thoracic vertebral development, and this variation may be potentially used as a molecular marker to select the multiple thoracic vertebrae in sheep.Copyright: © 2021 Ying-Jie Zhong et al.
Circular RNA (circRNA) plays an important role in regulating cell biological function and has been shown to be involved in cancer progression, including oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC). Circ-KIAA0907 has been found to play an anti-cancer role in OSCC, so it is worth exploring more functions and new mechanisms of circ-KIAA0907 in OSCC progression.Quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) was used to detect the expression of circ-KIAA0907, microRNA (miR)-96-5p, and unc-13 homolog C (UNC13C). Transwell assay, flow cytometry, and colony formation assay were employed to measure the migration, invasion, apoptosis, and radiosensitivity of cells. Besides, glucose uptake, lactate production, and extracellular acidification rate (ECAR) were determined to evaluate the glycolysis ability of cells. Dual-luciferase reporter assay and RIP assay were performed to confirm the interactions among circ-KIAA0907, miR-96-5p, and UNC13C. And RNA pull-down assay was used to verify the binding degree of miR-96-5p to its targets. Moreover, UNC13C protein level was examined using western blot (WB) analysis. OSCC xenograft models were constructed to perform in vivo experiments.Circ-KIAA0907 was a stability circRNA with lowly expression in OSCC. Overexpressed circ-KIAA0907 could inhibit migration, invasion, and glycolysis, while promoting apoptosis and radiosensitivity in OSCC cells. In the terms of mechanism, circ-KIAA0907 could sponge miR-96-5p to regulate UNC13C expression. MiR-96-5p overexpression could reverse the inhibitory effect of circ-KIAA0907 on OSCC progression, and UNC13C knockdown also could overturn the suppressive effect of miR-96-5p inhibitor on OSCC progression. Animal experiments revealed that circ-KIAA0907 could reduce the tumor growth of OSCC by regulating the miR-96-5p/UNC13C axis.Our study suggests that circ-KIAA0907 restrains OSCC progression via the miR-96-5p/UNC13C axis, indicating that it may be a potential target for OSCC treatment.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41996987 is a review article
Central amygdala (CeA) is a component of the spino-parabrachio-amygdala nociceptive pathway. Neuroplasticity in this pathway, such as increased cellular excitability and excitatory neurotransmission, play a key role in the development and persistence of chronic pain. However, the underlying mechanisms of neuroplastic changes in the CeA remain poorly understood. We recently demonstrated that GRID1/GluD1 (glutamate ionotropic receptor delta type subunit 1) and its binding partner CBLN1 (cerebellin 1 precursor) are downregulated in models of inflammatory and neuropathic pain. Furthermore, we have shown that GRID1-CBLN1 signaling regulates autophagy in multiple brain regions. Here, we tested the causal relationship between GRID1-CBLN1 downregulation, macroautophagy impairment, and subsequent hyperalgesia, using models of inflammatory and neuropathic pain. During pain, the downregulation of GRID1 and CBLN1 was accompanied by neuroplastic changes, as evidenced by an increase in excitatory neurotransmission and AMPA receptor (AMPAR) expression. In addition, significant downregulation of BECN1 and upregulation of SQSTM1 and MAP1LC3B, demonstrating impaired autophagic flux, were observed in the pain state. These changes appear to be cell type-specific, as observed by the higher localization of BECN1 and LAMP1, a marker for autolysosomes, to PRKCD+ neurons, in which GRID1 is preferentially expressed. Using a GRID1 C-terminal-derived peptide (Tat-HRSPN), we demonstrate that GRID1 directly facilitates autophagy and subsequently reduces AMPAR expression in normal animals. This effect may be attributable to the direct interaction of GRID1 with mediators of autophagy, such as neuronal (n)GOPC/nPIST, BECN1 and LAMP1. Together, these results identified a novel GRID1/GluD1-dependent trans-synaptic autophagy mechanism, the deficit of which drives chronic pain.Abbreviations: aCSF: artificial cerebro spinal fluid; AMPARs: α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptors; ATG: autophagy related; BAPTA: 1,2-bis(o-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid; BECN1: beclin 1; CBLN1: cerebellin 1 precursor; CeA: central amygdala; CFA: complete Freund's adjuvant; CRH/CRF: corticotropin releasing hormone; CTD: carboxy-terminal domain; DHPG: dihydroxy phenyl glycine; GOPC/PIST: golgi associated PDZ and coiled-coil motif containing; GRID1/GluD1: glutamate ionotropic receptor delta type subunit 1; GRIN/NMDAR: glutamate ionotropic receptor NMDA type; iGluRs: ionotropic glutamate receptors; KO: knockout; LA/BLA; lateral amygdala/baso-lateral amygdala; LAMP1: lysosomal associated membrane protein 1; LTD: long-term depression; MAP1LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; mEPSCs: miniature excitatory post-synaptic currents; GRM: glutamate metabotropic receptor; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; nGOPC/nPIST: neuronal GOPC/PIST; NRXN1a: neurexin 1 alpha; PB: parabrachial nucleus; PBS: phosphate-buffered saline; PB-CeLC: parabrachio-central laterocapsular amygdala; PI3K: phosphoinositide 3-kinase; PRKCD+: protein kinase C delta positive; rCBLN1: recombinant CBLN1; SDS-PAGE: sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis; SQSTM1: sequestosome 1; SNL: spinal nerve ligation; SST+: somatostatin positive; TBD11: Tat-beclin 1 D11; TBST: Tris-buffered saline with Tween 20; WT: wild type.
Hematoma clearance is crucial for treating intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). Currently, there is a lack of pharmacological therapy aimed at promoting hematoma absorption. Meningeal lymphatic system, as a drain of brain, is a potential therapeutic approach in ICH. Panax Notoginseng Saponins (PNS), proven to promote lymphangiogenesis in periphery, effectively reduces hematoma in ICH patients. However, the potential pharmacological effect of PNS on meningeal lymphatic vessels (MLVs) remains unknown.In this study, we aimed to investigate the impact of PNS on the meningeal lymphatic system and ICH.The collagenase-ICH model was conducted to investigate the effect of PNS. Behavioral tests, including modified neurological severity score (mNSS) and foot-fault test, and hematoma volume were used to estimate the neurological function and curative effect. The structure and drainage function of MLVs was detected by immunohistochemical staining. Visudyne intracisternal magna injection combined with red laser photoconversion was performed to ablate MLVs. RNA-sequencing was used to obtain mRNA profiles for mechanistic investigation.The meningeal lymphatic drainage function was enhanced after ICH on day 14 without obvious lymphangiogenesis. Additionally, PNS further facilitated the process of drain with simultaneously inducing lymphangiogenesis. Moreover, ablation of MLVs by photoconverting of visudyne significantly blocked the benefits of neurological deficits improvement and hematoma absorption conducted by PNS. Furthermore, RNA-sequencing revealed that PNS regulated axonogenesis and inflammation, relying on the intact MLVs. In which, solute carrier family 17 member 7 (Slc17a7) and tumor necrosis factor (Tnf) were identified as bottleneck and hub nodes of the protein-protein interaction network of target genes, respectively.PNS might be effective for ICH treatment by enhancing lymphangiogenesis and the meningeal lymphatic drainage function, thereby attenuating inflammation and promoting neurological recovery. The role of PNS in regulation of MLVs was investigated for the first time. This study provides a novel insight for PNS in the medical therapy of ICH.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
A growing number of studies link dysfunction of macroautophagy/autophagy to the pathogenesis of diseases such as Alzheimer disease (AD). Given the global importance of autophagy for homeostasis, how its dysfunction can lead to specific neurological changes is puzzling. To examine this further, we compared the global deactivation of autophagy in the adult mouse using the atg7iKO with the impact of AD-associated pathogenic changes in autophagic processing of synaptic proteins. Isolated forebrain synaptosomes, rather than total homogenates, from atg7iKO mice demonstrated accumulation of synaptic proteins, suggesting that the synapse might be a vulnerable site for protein homeostasis disruption. Moreover, the deactivation of autophagy resulted in impaired cognitive performance over time, whereas gross locomotor skills remained intact. Despite deactivation of autophagy for 6.5 weeks, changes in cognition were in the absence of cell death or synapse loss. In the symptomatic APP PSEN1 double-transgenic mouse model of AD, we found that the impairment in autophagosome maturation coupled with diminished presence of discrete synaptic proteins in autophagosomes isolated from these mice, leading to the accumulation of one of these proteins in the detergent insoluble protein fraction. This protein, SLC17A7/Vglut, also accumulated in atg7iKO mouse synaptosomes. Taken together, we conclude that synaptic autophagy plays a role in maintaining protein homeostasis, and that while decreasing autophagy interrupts normal cognitive function, the preservation of locomotion suggests that not all circuits are affected similarly. Our data suggest that the disruption of autophagic activity in AD may have relevance for the cognitive impairment in this adult-onset neurodegenerative disease. Abbreviations: 2dRAWM: 2-day radial arm water maze; AD: Alzheimer disease; Aβ: amyloid-beta; AIF1/Iba1: allograft inflammatory factor 1; APP: amyloid beta precursor protein; ATG7: autophagy related 7; AV: autophagic vacuole; CCV: cargo capture value; Ctrl: control; DLG4/PSD-95: discs large MAGUK scaffold protein 4; GFAP: glial fibrillary acidic protein; GRIN2B/NMDAR2b: glutamate ionotropic receptor NMDA type subunit 2B; LTD: long-term depression; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; m/o: months-old; PNS: post-nuclear supernatant; PSEN1/PS1: presenilin 1; SHB: sucrose homogenization buffer; SLC32A1/Vgat: solute carrier family 32 member 1; SLC17A7/Vglut1: solute carrier family 17 member 7; SNAP25: synaptosome associated protein 25; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; SYN1: synapsin I; SYP: synaptophysin ; SYT1: synaptotagmin 1; Tam: tamoxifen; VAMP2: vesicle associated membrane protein 2; VCL: vinculin; wks: weeks.
The study aimed to investigate the effect of Grid1, encoding the glutamate ionotropic receptor delta type subunit 1 (GluD1), on puberty onset in female rats. Grid1 mRNA and protein expression was detected in the hypothalamus of female rats at prepuberty and puberty. The levels of Grid1 mRNA in the hypothalamus, the fluorescence intensity in the arcuate nucleus and paraventricular nucleus of the prepubertal rats was significantly lower than pubertal. Additionally, the expression of Grid1 was suppressed in primary hypothalamus cells and prepubertal rat. Finally, investigated the effect of Grid1 knockdown on puberty onset and reproductive performance. Treatment of hypothalamic neurons with LV-Grid1 decreased the level of Grid1 and Rfrp-3 (encoding RFamide-related peptide 3) mRNA expression, but increased the Gnrh (encoding gonadotropin-releasing hormone) mRNA levels. After an ICV injection, the time for the rat vaginal opening occurred earlier. Moreover, Gnrh mRNA expression was increased, whereas Rfrp-3 mRNA expression was decreased in the hypothalamus. The concentration of progesterone (P4) in the serum was significantly decreased compare with control group. Ovary hematoxylin-eosin staining revealed that the LV-Grid1 group mainly contained primary and secondary follicles. The reproductive performance of the rats was not affected by the Grid1 knockdown. Therefore, Grid1 may aﬀect the onset of puberty in female rats by regulating the levels of Gnrh, and Rfrp-3 in the hypothalamus, as well as the concentrations of P4, but not reproduction performance.
Despite recent advances, it is not clear whether the various genes/genetic variants related to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) interact in modifying patients' phenotype. The aim of this study was to determine whether the copresence of genetic variants related to ALS has interactive effects on the course of the disease.The study population includes 1,245 patients with ALS identified through the Piemonte Register for ALS between 2007 and 2016 and not carrying superoxide dismutase type 1, TAR DNA binding protein, and fused in sarcoma pathogenic variants. Controls were 766 Italian participants age-matched, sex-matched, and geographically matched to cases. We considered Unc-13 homolog A (UNC13A) (rs12608932), calmodulin binding transcription activator 1 (CAMTA1) (rs2412208), solute carrier family 11 member 2 (SLC11A2) (rs407135), and zinc finger protein 512B (ZNF512B) (rs2275294) variants, as well as ataxin-2 (ATXN2) polyQ intermediate repeats (≥31) and chromosome 9 open reading frame 72 (C9orf72) GGGGCC intronic expansions (≥30).The median survival time of the whole cohort was 2.67 years (interquartile range [IQR] 1.67-5.25). In univariate analysis, only C9orf72 (2.51 years, IQR 1.74-3.82; p = 0.016), ATXN2 (1.82 years, IQR 1.08-2.33; p < 0.001), and UNC13A C/C (2.3 years, IQR 1.3-3.9; p < 0.001) significantly reduced survival. In Cox multivariable analysis, CAMTA1 also emerged to be independently related to survival (hazard ratio 1.13, 95% CI 1.001-1.30, p = 0.048). The copresence of 2 detrimental alleles/expansions was correlated with shorter survival. In particular, the median survival of patients with CAMTA1 G/G+G/T and UNC13A C/C alleles was 1.67 years (1.16-3.08) compared with 2.75 years (1.67-5.26) of the patients not carrying these variants (p < 0.001); the survival of patients with CAMTA1 G/G+G/T alleles and ATXN2 ≥31 intermediate polyQ repeats was 1.75 years (0.84-2.18) (p < 0.001); the survival of patients with ATXN2 ≥31 polyQ repeats and UNC13A C/C allele was 1.33 years (0.84-1.75) (p < 0.001); the survival of patients with C9ORF72 ≥30 and UNC13A C/C allele was 1.66 years (1.41-2.16). Each pair of detrimental alleles/expansions was associated to specific clinical phenotypes.We showed that gene variants acting as modifiers of ALS survival or phenotype can act on their own or in unison. Overall, 54% of patients carried at least 1 detrimental common variant or repeat expansion, emphasizing the clinical impact of our findings. In addition, the identification of the interactive effects of modifier genes represents a crucial clue for explaining ALS clinical heterogeneity and should be considered when designing and interpreting clinical trials results.Written work prepared by employees of the Federal Government as part of their official duties is, under the U.S. Copyright Act, a “work of the United States Government” for which copyright protection under Title 17 of the United States Code is not available. As such, copyright does not extend to the contributions of employees of the Federal Government.
Cognitive impairment caused by systemic chemotherapy is a critical question that perplexes the effective implementation of clinical treatment, but related molecular events are poorly understood. Herein, we show that bortezomib exposure leads to microglia activation and cognitive impairment, this occurs along with decreased nuclear translocation of TFEB (transcription factor EB), which is linked to macroautophagy/autophagy disorder, STAT3 (signal transducer and activator of transcription 3) phosphorylation and IL23A (interleukin 23 subunit alpha) expression. Pharmacological enhancement of TFEB nuclear translocation by digoxin restores lysosomal function and reduces STAT3-dependent endothelial IL23A secretion. As a consequence, we found that brain endothelial-specific ablation of Il23a ameliorated both microglia activation and cognitive dysfunction. Thus, the endothelial TFEB-STAT3-IL23A axis in the brain represents a critical cellular event for initiating bortezomib-mediated aberrant microglial activation and synapse engulfment. Our results suggest the reversal of TFEB nuclear translocation may provide a novel therapeutic approach to prevent symptoms of cognitive dysfunction during clinical use of bortezomib.Abbreviations: AAV: adeno-associated virus; BBB: blood-brain barrier; BTZ: bortezomib; DG: digoxin; DGs: dentate gyrus; DLG4/PSD95: discs large MAGUK scaffold protein 4; HBMECs: human brain microvascular endothelial cells; HP: hippocampus; IL23A: interleukin 23 subunit alpha; MBVECs: mouse brain vascular endothelial cells; mPFC: medial prefrontal cortex; NORT: novel object recognition test; OLT: object location test; PLX5622: 6-fluoro-N-([5-fluoro-2-methoxypyridin-3-yl]methyl)-5-(5-methyl-1H-pyrrolo[2,3-b]pyridin-3- yl)methyl; PPP3/calcineurin: protein phosphatase 3; SBEs: STAT3 binding elements; shRNA: small hairpin RNA; SLC17A7/VGLUT1: solute carrier family 17 member 7; SLC32A1/VGAT: solute carrier family 32 member 1; STAT3: signal transducer and activator of transcription 3, TFEB: transcription factor EB; Ub: ubiquitin.
Many lines of evidence have highlighted the role played by heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoproteins in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. In this study, we have aimed to identify transcripts co-regulated by TAR DNA-binding protein 43 kDa and highly conserved heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoproteins which have been previously shown to regulate TAR DNA-binding protein 43 kDa toxicity (deleted in azoospermia-associated protein 1, heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein -Q, -D, -K and -U). Using the transcriptome analyses, we have uncovered that Nitric Oxide Synthase 1 Adaptor Protein mRNA is a direct TAR DNA-binding protein 43 kDa target, and in flies, its modulation alone can rescue TAR DNA-binding protein 43 kDa pathology. In primary mouse cortical neurons, we show that TAR DNA-binding protein 43 kDa mediated downregulation of Nitric Oxide Synthase 1 Adaptor Protein expression strongly affects the NMDA-receptor signalling pathway. In human patients, the downregulation of Nitric Oxide Synthase 1 Adaptor Protein mRNA strongly correlates with TAR DNA-binding protein 43 kDa proteinopathy as measured by cryptic Stathmin-2 and Unc-13 homolog A cryptic exon inclusion. Overall, our results demonstrate that Nitric Oxide Synthase 1 Adaptor Protein may represent a novel disease-relevant gene, potentially suitable for the development of new therapeutic strategies.© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Guarantors of Brain.
Serrated polyposis syndrome (SPS) is a relatively rare disease that is characterized by multiple serrated lesions/polyps. Very little is known regarding the extracolonic cancers associated with SPS. The genetic basis of the process remains unknown.A 67-year-old male patient initially presented with belching and abdominal distension for a year as well as diarrhea for over 2 mo. The patient underwent colonoscopy and was diagnosed with serrated polyposis syndrome. Half a year later, a gastroscopy was performed during the postoperative re-examination to screen for other lesions of the upper gastrointestinal tract. An elevated lesion was detected in the anterior wall of the gastric antrum. Curative en bloc resection of the lesion was achieved via endoscopic submucosal dissection. The pathological result was high-grade dysplasia with focal intramucosal carcinoma. Exome sequencing was performed for the patient and five gastric cancer-associated variants (methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase, metaxin 1, coiled-coil domain containing 6, glutamate ionotropic receptor delta type subunit 1, and aldehyde dehydrogenase 1) were identified.This paper reports a case that presented with both SPS and early gastric cancer. Genetic mutations that were potentially responsible for this condition were sought by exome sequencing.©The Author(s) 2022. Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42222334 is a review article
Colorectal cancer (CRC) remains a significant global health challenge, marked by high incidence and mortality rates, as well as ongoing limitations in current diagnostic and therapeutic strategies. Accurate prognostic evaluation and the customization of treatment to meet the individual requirements of patients are of paramount importance. gamma-aminobutyric acid type A receptor subunit delta (GABRD) plays a role in the progression of a number of different cancers, such as glioma, breast cancer, and stomach cancer. However, its function in CRC was rarely reported. In this study, we aimed to evaluate the diagnostic, prognostic and immune infiltration value of GABRD in CRC.Transcriptomic data and clinical records of CRC patients were retrieved from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). A prognostic signature based on neurotransmitter receptor-associated genes (NRGs) was developed using the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) Cox regression model. Functional enrichment analyses were performed. Immune cell infiltration was assessed via single-sample Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (ssGSEA). The correlation between GABRD expression and clinicopathological characteristics was analyzed, and prognostic significance was evaluated using univariate and multivariate Cox regression models, supplemented by Kaplan-Meier survival analysis. Immunohistochemical (IHC) validation of GABRD protein expression was performed on 115 CRC tissue samples. In vitro validation was conducted using reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), Western blotting, and functional assays in CRC cell lines.GABRD was significantly overexpressed in CRC tissues, with elevated levels correlating with advanced disease stages and poorer survival outcomes. Further analysis revealed that GABRD contributes to the establishment of an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment. Functional assays highlighted GABRD's involvement in key signaling pathways, including Hedgehog, Wnt/β-catenin, and TGF-β, which are pivotal in CRC progression. Knockdown of GABRD significantly inhibited CRC cell proliferation and migration. Molecular docking simulations suggested promising drug repurposing avenues, particularly with afatinib and crizotinib, for GABRD inhibition.GABRD gene may serve as a novel biomarker in the diagnosis, prognosis and immune infiltrates of CRC patients.© AME Publishing Company.
As the clinical applications of dexmedetomidine expand, advances in neuroscientific research have provided further insights into its mechanisms of action. We provide a focused overview of the role that astrocytes play in the changes in neurotransmission that accompany the sedative action of dexmedetomidine. After activation of astrocytic α2A-adrenergic receptors, the subsequent rise in cytosolic calcium increases the permeability of bestrophin-1 channels, facilitating the release of γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) that stimulates extrasynaptic GABAA receptors on glutamatergic neurones. This signalling cascade, involving multiple receptor systems, reduces neuronal excitability.Copyright © 2026 British Journal of Anaesthesia. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
BEST1 mutations are associated with a spectrum of ocular disorders collectively termed Bestrophinopathies, including autosomal dominant Best vitelliform macular dystrophy (BVMD), adult-onset vitelliform macular dystrophy (AVMD), autosomal dominant vitreoretinochoroidopathy (ADVIRC), retinitis pigmentosa type 50 (RP50), and autosomal recessive bestrophinopathy (ARB). The molecular mechanisms underlying their distinct retinal phenotypes remain largely unknown. In this study, we characterized disease subtypes, causative genes, and mutation sites through comprehensive ophthalmic evaluations, whole-genome sequencing, and Sanger sequencing validation. Cellular immunofluorescence assays were performed to assess the impact of BEST1 mutations on the subcellular localization of Bestrophin-1. Protein stability of wild-type and mutant Bestrophin-1 was investigated in transiently transfected MDCK II cells treated with proteasome or lysosome inhibitors. We identified BEST1 c.1037C>A (p.P346H) and BEST1 c.698C>T (p.P233L) mutations in two families diagnosed with RP50 and BVMD, respectively. These mutations induced protein destabilization and subsequent degradation via the ubiquitin-proteasome-dependent pathway. Additionally, both p.P346H and p.P233L caused cytoplasmic mislocalization of the mutant Bestrophin-1 protein. Our findings suggest that the pathogenic mechanisms associated with p.P233L and p.P346H likely involve mislocalization of the mutant protein, protein instability and its targeted degradation via ubiquitin-proteasome-dependent pathway.
Dexmedetomidine (Dex) is a selective α2-adrenergic receptor (α2-AR) agonist widely used for sedation, but its underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood. We aimed to identify novel brain regions and cellular pathways mediating Dex-induced sedation in mice.Brain-wide α2A-ARs expression was mapped in adult male C57BL/6 mice using RNAscope in situ hybridisation with immunofluorescence. Functional expression was confirmed by intracellular Ca2+ imaging in astrocytes. Sedation was assessed by rotarod, open-field tests, and electroencephalography (EEG). Astrocyte-specific gene knockdown, chemogenetics, and electrophysiology were used to explore underlying mechanisms.Expression of α2A-ARs was enriched in hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVH) astrocytes, where Dex triggered α2A-AR-dependent Ca2+ elevations. Knockdown of astrocyte α2A-ARs reduced Dex-induced sedation, evidenced by increased rotarod fall latency (mean [standard deviation] 228 [52] vs 166 [62] s, P=0.026), increased open-field distance (3640 [950] vs 2680 [850] cm, P=0.029) and decreased EEG delta power (54.2 [11.0] vs 62.0 [5.9]%, P=0.024). Inhibition of astrocyte Ca2+ signalling produced similar effects. Mechanistically, Dex enhanced tonic gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) currents in local Vglut2+ neurones (15.5 [9.6] vs 7.8 [6.6] pA, P=0.035) and suppressed neuronal firing (0.5 [0.5] vs 1.8 [1.3] Hz, P<0.001); both effects were attenuated by inhibition of astrocyte Ca2+ levels. Furthermore, knockdown of the Ca2+-activated anion channel bestrophin-1 (BEST1) in PVH astrocytes reduced tonic GABA currents (3.5 [3.4] vs 7.5 [7.2] pA, P=0.024) and diminished sedation.An astrocytic α2A-AR-Ca2+-BEST1 pathway in hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus neurones mediates Dex-induced sedation, which identifies a critical role for astrocytes in pharmacologically induced sedation.Copyright © 2026 British Journal of Anaesthesia. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Treating autosomal dominant gene mutations remains challenging, particularly when mutations convey a gain-of-function or a dominant-negative effect, as standard gene supplementation strategies often fail to counteract the pathogenic allele.In this study, we employed human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived retinal pigment epithelium (hiPSC-RPE) to investigate allele-specific CRISPR/Cas9 genome editing as a potential treatment for Best disease (BD), an autosomal dominant macular dystrophy caused by over 250 distinct mutations in the bestrophin-1 (BEST1) gene. We designed and evaluated single guide RNAs (sgRNA) targeting three known BEST1 mutations (p.(R218C), p.(A243V), and p.(I295del)), assessing their impact on BD-associated hiPSC-RPE phenotypes and BEST1 channel function. Computationally predicted sgRNAs were rigorously tested for on-target efficiency, allele specificity and genome-wide off-target activities.We found that shortening sgRNA length improved specificity in some cases, while introducing an additional mismatch generally compromised editing efficiency. Notably, only one of the three mutations yielded an sgRNA with both high cleavage efficiency and undetectable off-target effects in hiPSC-RPE cells. We then explored the consequences of allele-specific editing on BEST1 expression and function in clonal BD hiPSC-RPE lines. Eliminating the mutant BEST1 transcript led to enhanced BEST1 localization, improved protein stability and restoration of anion transport function.Taken together, our findings support allele-specific gene editing as a viable therapeutic strategy for selected BEST1 mutations, while underscoring the necessity for rigorous testing of computationally designed sgRNAs, given their mutation- and context-dependent variability.© 2026. The Author(s).
Autosomal dominant vitreoretinochoroidopathy (ADVIRC) is associated with gain-of-function in bestrophin-1 instead of loss-of-function or dominant-negative mechanisms in other bestrophinopathies. We aimed to characterize photoreceptor (PR) changes in ADVIRC compared to Best vitelliform macular dystrophy (BVMD) and controls.A retrospective case series of 8 ADVIRC, 10 BVMD, and 10 control eyes was conducted. Outer segment and PR layer (OPL/ONL junction to RPE) thicknesses were measured on horizontal optical-coherence-tomography line scans at -2.5 (nasal) to +2.5 (temporal) mm from the fovea and compared using the Kruskal-Wallis H test and Mann-Whitney U test.Median age of ADVIRC, BVMD, and control patients was 51.0, 38.0, and 50.0 years, respectively, visual acuity (logMAR) was 0.20, 0.02, and 0.00; axial length was 24.7, 23.6, and 23.7 mm; and spherical refraction was -0.63, 0.00, and 0.00 diopters, respectively. The ADVIRC outer segment layer was significantly thinner than BVMD eyes at all locations from the fovea, and the ADVIRC PR layer was significantly thinner than BVMD and control eyes at perifoveal locations. Systematic review of published ADVIRC cases showed increased prevalence of myopia vs. hyperopia.This study found that gain-of-function in ADVIRC may cause increased prevalence of myopia, PR layer thinning, and outer segment shortening.
Anxiety disorder is a common mental comorbidity of chronic pain, but how chronic pain induces anxiety symptoms remains incompletely understood. Here, using a mouse model of neuropathic pain, we demonstrate the combined contributions of α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptor (AMPAR) trafficking onto synaptic membrane and ambient glutamate-mediated tonic excitation in contralateral ventromedial prefrontal cortex. The results indicate that enhanced AMPAR trafficking is required but not sufficient for chronic pain-induced anxiety-like behaviors. Aberrant tonic excitation potentiates AMPAR-mediated synaptic transmission after AMPAR trafficking and consequently causes anxiety-like behaviors. Furthermore, we find neuronal bestrophin 1 (BEST1)-mediated glutamate release as the source of aberrant tonic excitation. Neuron-specific BEST1 knockout does not relieve chronic pain but alleviates comorbid anxiety-like behaviors and even displays anxiolytic-like effects when chronic pain is relieved by analgesic treatment. Alogether, this study indicates a dual mechanism underlying chronic pain-induced anxiety and proposes BEST1 as an efficacious target for the therapy of comorbid anxiety during chronic pain.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41900986 is a review article
The mechanisms leading to the onset of a focal seizure are still not understood. Experimental data in animal models and patients suggest that both interneurons and principal cells contribute to focal seizure generation. We investigate here whether neurons are driven by non-synaptic γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) release during seizures generated in models of focal ictogenesis.We used the well-established 4-aminopyridine (4AP) seizure model to analyze epileptiform discharges in naïve mouse entorhinal cortex slices and in guinea pig brains maintained in vitro. Pharmacological dissection of epileptiform events was performed during simultaneous field potential and patch-clamp recordings.4AP (100 μM) elicited periodic and large chloride currents in both principal neurons and GABAergic interneurons that steadily matched simultaneously recorded interictal population spikes. These population spike-associated chloride currents (PSACC) (i) survived glutamate receptor blockade, (ii) were abolished by GABAA antagonists and by blocking the synaptic neurotransmitters release, (iii) were reduced by excitatory amino acid transporter antagonist, and (iv) were enhanced by GABA transporter 1 antagonist. Application of the antagonist of bestrophin-1 (BEST-1) channels inhibited both PSACCs and the associated spikes and prevented the occurrence of seizure-like events in entorhinal cortex mouse slices and in the isolated guinea pig brain.We propose that GABA released via bestrophin-1 channels induces large and synchronous chloride currents in principal cells and interneurons, and establishes the conditions for the generation of seizure-like events. We propose that neuronal epileptiform discharges are generated by fast transmembrane ion changes imposed by non-vesicular GABA release, possibly sustained by astrocytes.© 2026 International League Against Epilepsy.
DBI/ACBP (diazepam binding inhibitor, acyl-CoA binding protein), which is a major macroautophagy/autophagy-repressive protein, is emerging as a key player in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) pathogenesis through multifaceted roles that encompass both cell-intrinsic and -extrinsic mechanisms. Beyond promoting cancer cell proliferation, DBI/ACBP contributes to a pro-tumorigenic microenvironment by sustaining inflammation and impairing immunosurveillance. Experimental models of HCC, whether induced by oncogenes, hepatotoxins, or diet, consistently reveal that hepatocyte-specific knockout of DBI, systemic mutation of the DBI/ACBP receptor, which is GABRG2 (gamma-aminobutyric acid type A receptor subunit gamma2), or antibody-mediated neutralization of DBI/ACBP attenuates tumor growth. Mechanistically, DBI/ACBP inhibition reduces fibrogenesis, and the accumulation of immunosuppressive T-cell subtypes while enhancing antitumor immune responses in the context of PDCD1/PD-1 blockade. Simultaneously, DBI/ACBP inhibition increases the expression of pro-ferroptotic genes and proteins while decreasing those that are anti-ferroptotic in the liver, thereby sensitizing HCC cells to ferroptosis- a form of cell death associated with autophagy. Clinically, elevated DBI mRNA expression in tumors and circulating DBI/ACBP protein correlate with poor prognosis in HCC patients. Hence, targeting DBI/ACBP offers a promising strategy to disrupt the metabolic, inflammatory, and immunosuppressive networks driving HCC progression.
DBI/ACBP is a phylogenetically ancient hormone that stimulates appetite and lipo-anabolism. In response to starvation, DBI/ACBP is secreted through a noncanonical, macroautophagy/autophagy-dependent pathway. The physiological hunger reflex involves starvation-induced secretion of DBI/ACBP from multiple cell types. DBI/ACBP concentrations subsequently increase in extracellular fluids to stimulate food intake. Recently, we observed that glucocorticoids, which are endogenous stress hormones as well as anti-inflammatory drugs, upregulate DBI/ACBP expression at the transcriptional level and stimulate autophagy in hepatocytes, thereby causing a surge in circulating DBI/ACBP levels. Prolonged increase in glucocorticoid concentrations causes an extreme form of metabolic syndrome, dubbed "Cushing syndrome", which is characterized by clinical features including hyperphagia, hyperdipsia, dyslipidemia, hyperinsulinemia, insulin resistance, lipodystrophy, visceral adiposity, steatosis, sarcopenia and osteoporosis. Mice and patients with Cushing syndrome exhibit supraphysiological DBI/ACBP plasma levels. Of note, neutralization of extracellular DBI/ACBP protein with antibodies or mutation of the DBI/ACBP receptor (i.e. the GABRG2 subunit of GABR [gamma-aminobutyric acid type A receptor]) renders mice resistant to the induction of Cushing syndrome. Similarly, knockout of Dbi/Acbp in hepatocytes suppresses the corticotherapy-induced surge in plasma DBI/ACBP concentrations and prevents the manifestation of most of the characteristics of Cushing syndrome. We conclude that autophagy-mediated secretion of DBI/ACBP by hepatocytes constitutes a critical step of the pathomechanism of Cushing syndrome. It is tempting to speculate that stress-induced chronic elevations of endogenous glucocorticoids also compromise human health due to the protracted augmentation of circulating DBI/ACBP concentrations.Abbreviations: DBI/ACBP: diazepam binding inhibitor, acyl-CoA binding protein; GABA: gamma-aminobutyric acid; GABAR: gamma-aminobutyric acid type A receptor; GABRG2: gamma-aminobutyric acid type A receptor subunit gamma2.
Idiopathic generalized epilepsy (IGE) is the most prevalent type of epilepsy with genetic origin. Mutations in ion channel genes have been identified as a common cause of IGE. Several studies have reported various epilepsy risk variants of GABRG2 (gamma-aminobutyric acid type A receptor subunit gamma2 subunit) gene in different ethnic groups, but the results are inconsistent. The purpose of this case-control research is to determine if GABRG2 polymorphisms contribute to IGE susceptibility and antiepileptic drug resistance in Pakistani population. For this purpose, we genotyped exon2, exon5 (C540T and C588T), exon7 (T813C), exon8 (K289M), and exon9 of GABRG2 gene by restriction fragment length polymorphism and Sanger's sequencing in 87 drug-responsive idiopathic generalized epilepsy patients, 55 drug-resistant epilepsy patients, and 83 healthy controls. Restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) and sequencing results indicated only C588T polymorphism in the studied subjects. The comparison of genotypic and allelic frequencies showed significant differences between IGE patients and control groups (P = 0.008 and odds ratio = 4.2) and nonsignificant association of C588T polymorphism in antiseizure medication-resistant patients (P = 0.9). Our findings showed that C588T polymorphism of GABRG2 is a risk variant for IGE in Pakistani population. Further studies are required to validate the results.Copyright © 2022 Tayyaba Saleem et al.
Lymphoma is one of the most common neoplastic diseases in dogs, and T-cell lymphoma in particular has frequently been reported to show limited sensitivity to conventional chemotherapy from the onset of treatment when compared with B-cell lymphoma. Owing to its high-grade and aggressive clinical behavior, there is a strong need to explore novel therapeutic approaches for canine T-cell lymphoma, including strategies targeting aberrant gene regulation. In this study, we focused on the epigenetic enzyme enhancer of zeste 2 polycomb repressive complex 2 subunit (EZH2) and investigated its functional role in canine T-cell lymphoma. The EZH2 gene was ectopically introduced into canine T-cell lymphoma cell lines using a lentiviral vector system, and colony-forming ability, and apoptosis rate were evaluated. EZH2 overexpression significantly enhanced colony-forming capacity, suppressed apoptosis, and increased the number of viable cells compared with control cells. These findings indicate that elevated EZH2 expression confers a survival advantage to canine T-cell lymphoma cells. The present study provides novel evidence that overexpression of EZH2 itself promotes tumor cell survival and aggressiveness. Our results suggest that EZH2 may play a functional role in the maintenance and progression of at least a subset of canine T-cell lymphoma and may represent a potential driver of tumor malignancy. These findings contribute to a deeper understanding of lymphomagenesis and support the potential of EZH2 as a therapeutic target in canine T-cell lymphoma.Copyright © 2026 Kawamura, Ishikawa-Shinohara, Okamura, Kohno, Gonzalez-Astudillo, Wakabayashi, Aikawa, Kitabayashi, Mizuno, Gotoh, Michishita and Machida.
Bovine leukemia virus (BLV) is a cell-associated retrovirus of cattle transmitted mainly through the transfer of infected lymphocytes, but the possible role of hematophagous insects in its epidemiology remains incompletely understood. This study investigated BLV DNA in field-collected Culicoides biting midges and Stomoxys calcitrans from cattle farms in Poland. Insects were collected on four farms in northeastern Poland. Culicoides spp. were identified morphologically, classified by gonotrophic status, and pooled by species and status, whereas S. calcitrans were analyzed individually. DNA quality was verified by PCR targeting insect markers. Bovine host DNA was detected by PCR targeting mitochondrial cytochrome b in Culicoides and prepronociceptin (PNOC) in S. calcitrans. BLV proviral DNA was detected by TaqMan real-time PCR targeting the pol gene, followed by nested PCR and sequencing of a 400 bp fragment of the env gene. BLV DNA was detected in 20 of 138 Culicoides pools (14.5%). BLV copy numbers ranged from 2 to 19,000 copies per 500 ng of total DNA. All BLV-positive Culicoides pools were also positive for bovine cytochrome b DNA. Among the pol-positive pools, 18 were positive in nested env PCR, and 15 yielded high-quality sequences. One S. calcitrans specimen was also positive in both BLV assays. Sequences obtained from insects were identical to those from infected cattle, and phylogenetic analysis assigned them to genotypes G4 and G7, the predominant BLV genotypes circulating in Poland. These findings provide field-based molecular evidence that Culicoides biting midges and S. calcitrans can carry bovine blood and BLV DNA under natural farm conditions, supporting their possible role in the mechanical transfer of BLV between cattle.Copyright © 2026 Aneta Pluta et al. Transboundary and Emerging Diseases published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The arcuate nucleus (ARC) and ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH) are highly specialized hypothalamic nuclei controlling appetite and energy expenditure. Here, we demonstrate that human VMH and ARC neurons can be generated from pluripotent stem cells by fine-tuned timing and duration of bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) exposure. We identified SHH-/NKX2.1+/FGF10+/RAX+/TBX3+ posterior tuberal progenitors as the source of ARC cell types, including agouti-related peptide (AGRP)-, prepronociceptin (PNOC)-, growth-hormone-releasing hormone (GHRH)-, and thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH)-expressing neurons and β2-tanycytes. Differentiated ARC cultures showed high transcriptomic similarity to human ARC and responded to energy homeostasis-regulatory peptides including leptin, glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1), ghrelin, and fibroblast growth factor 1 (FGF1). In contrast, anterior tuberal TBX3- progenitors generated VMH-associated neurons expressing NR5A1, SOX14, and GPR149. Strikingly, two transcriptionally distinct pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) subpopulations emerged from these lineages, mapping spatially to either the ARC (POMC+/TBX3+/NR5A2+) or the VMH (POMC+/SOX14+/NR5A1+). This model provides a cellular platform to study human hypothalamic subtype specification and pathways involved in central appetite regulation.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Vascular restenosis is a common complication following vascular interventions, driven by abnormal proliferation and phenotypic switching of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs). Ferroptosis, an iron-dependent regulated cell death, has been implicated in VSMC dysfunction and vascular remodeling. However, the epitranscriptomic regulation of ferroptosis in VSMCs remains unclear.This study investigates the role of Wilms tumor suppressor gene WT1-associated protein (WTAP), a key N6-methyladenosine (m6A) RNA methylation regulator, in controlling ferroptosis of VSMCs during vascular restenosis.A balloon injury rat model and platelet-derived growth factor-BB-stimulated VSMCs were used to mimic vascular restenosis. WTAP expression and global m6A levels were assessed. Functional assays evaluated the effects of WTAP overexpression on ferroptosis markers, reactive oxygen species (ROS), lipid peroxidation, and VSMC proliferation. Mechanistic studies explored WTAP-mediated m6A modification of the long non-coding RNA growth arrest specific 5 (GAS5), its interaction with enhancer of zeste 2 polycomb repressive complex 2 subunit (EZH2), and downstream regulation of interferon regulatory factor 4 (IRF4) and ferritin heavy chain 1 (FTH1).WTAP expression and global m6A levels were significantly reduced in restenotic tissues and cells. WTAP overexpression restored m6A modification on GAS5, enhancing its stability via YTH domain family member 1. GAS5 inhibited EZH2-mediated H3K27me3 repression of IRF4, which transcriptionally activated FTH1, suppressing ferroptosis. WTAP overexpression decreased ROS, lipid peroxidation, and VSMC proliferation, while knockdown of GAS5 or IRF4 partially reversed these effects.Our study is the first to identify that the WTAP/GAS5/IRF4 axis suppresses PDGF-BB-induced cell proliferation by inhibiting ferroptosis in VSMCs, and alleviates vascular restenosis caused by balloon injury.WTAP epitranscriptomically regulates VSMC ferroptosis via the GAS5/EZH2/IRF4/FTH1 axis, revealing a novel mechanism in vascular restenosis pathogenesis and a potential therapeutic target. Antioxid. Redox Signal. 44, 726-747.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41680284 is a review article
Breast cancer is the most common malignancy among women worldwide, with environmental chemical exposure increasingly implicated in its development. Parabens (PBs) are widely used preservatives with endocrine-disrupting properties, but their role in breast carcinogenesis remains unclear. This study integrated epidemiological analyses of the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES), network toxicology, machine learning, transcriptomic profiling, molecular docking, and in vitro assays to investigate associations between PBs exposure and breast cancer risk and to explore potential mechanisms. NHANES analysis (2005-2016, n = 9615) revealed significant associations between higher urinary concentrations of ethyl paraben (EPB), methyl paraben (MPB), and propyl paraben (PPB) and breast cancer prevalence. Network toxicology identified 14 candidate molecular targets, with estrogen receptor 1 (ESR1), enhancer of zeste 2 polycomb repressive complex 2 subunit (EZH2), and platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha (PDGFRA) prioritized through machine learning and SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP), highlighting EZH2 as the most influential predictor. Transcriptomic analyses indicated these hub targets influence immune cell infiltration and exhibit distinct expression patterns within the tumor microenvironment. Molecular docking simulations suggested strong interactions between PBs and these hub proteins. In vitro assays demonstrated that PBs upregulated ESR1 and EZH2, induced DNA damage in normal breast epithelial cells, and enhanced proliferation and migration in breast cancer cells-effects reversed by ESR1 and EZH2 inhibitors. Together, these findings suggest that PBs may affect pathways relevant to breast cancer progression and act as potential environmental contributors.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The present study aimed to identify novel clinical biomarkers for breast cancer (BRCA) through bioinformatics analyses and cellular experiments, due to the ongoing need for improved diagnosis and prognosis in BRCA. The GSE21422 and The Cancer Genome Atlas-BRCA (TCGA-BRCA) datasets were utilized to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in BRCA. Common DEGs were subjected to comprehensive analyses, including risk score modeling, expression profiling, receiver operating characteristic curve evaluation, survival analysis and the development of a prognostic nomogram, to pinpoint clinically significant genes. Cellular assays were subsequently performed to investigate the functional roles of these key genes in BRCA. Through bioinformatics analyses, 5 genes with diagnostic value were identified: Aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 family member A1 (ALDH1A1), Rac/Cdc42 guanine nucleotide exchange factor 6 (ARHGEF6), enhancer of zeste 2 polycomb repressive complex 2 subunit, integrin α1 (ITGA1) and PIK3R1, as well as 3 genes with prognostic value: ALDH1A1, ARHGEF6 and ITGA1. Among them, ARHGEF6 was recognized as the key gene in BRCA. Overexpression of ARHGEF6 was shown to suppress cell proliferation, invasion and migration, while promoting apoptosis in BRCA. In conclusion, by bioinformatics analysis, new diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers for patients with BRCA have been identified and the key gene, ARHGEF6, is a suppressor gene in BRCA progression. These findings provide new directions for BRCA clinical application.Copyright: © 2025 Zhang et al.
Dysregulation in neural circuits that encode arousal responses to aversive stimuli is thought to contribute to changes in motivated behaviors associated with neuropsychiatric disorders. However, the relationship between arousal and motivation remains poorly understood. We previously identified that prepronociceptin-expressing neurons in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (Pnoc BNST neurons) modulate rapid physiological arousal responses to a motivationally salient aversive odor. However, whether Pnoc BNST neurons also signal behavioral actions triggered by an aversive odor is still unknown.In this study, we investigated the role of Pnoc BNST neurons in signaling behavioral responses to an aversive odor. We leveraged miniaturized head-mounted microscopes to monitor the calcium activity of Pnoc BNST neurons in vivo while freely behaving mice performed an odor preference test.We found that the bulk activity of Pnoc BNST neurons increased as mice approached an aversive odor. Single-cell analyses revealed heterogeneity in response dynamics within the Pnoc BNST neuronal population upon initial exposure to the odor. Subsequent analysis revealed that the response dynamics of Pnoc BNST neurons that showed excitation when mice were in close proximity to the aversive odor were due to the initiation of darting away from the odor.These results highlight a novel role of Pnoc BNST neurons to signal escape behavior in response to an aversive stimulus. This, in combination with our previous findings that Pnoc BNST neurons encode arousal responses, supports a neurobiological relationship of arousal and motivation within extended amygdala circuits.© 2025 The Authors.
Nociceptin (N/OFQ) and its receptor OPRL1 play crucial roles in emotional processing, reward-related behaviors, learning, and neurotransmitter regulation, but their involvement in Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology remains poorly understood. This study investigated possible relationships between prepronociceptin ( PNOC ) and OPRL1 expression and psychiatric symptoms in AD, utilizing Natural Language Processing (NLP) to assess Research Domain Criteria (RDoC) domains.Post-mortem brain tissue from the dorsal anterior cingulate gyrus (BA32) was analyzed in 61 donors across different Braak and Braak (B&B) stages. RNA expression of PNOC and OPRL1 was quantified and correlated with RDoC scores derived from medical records using NLP. Sex-stratified analyses, circadian rhythmicity analysis, and cell-type specific expression patterns were examined.Both genes showed significant downregulation in AD cases ( PNOC : p = 0.024; OPRL1 : p < 0.001), with notable sex differences. Men displayed higher post-mortem PNOC (Cohen's d = -0.482) and OPRL1 (Cohen's d = -0.237) expression compared to women. In adjusted models controlling for B&B stage and post-mortem interval, PNOC expression significantly correlated with dimensional scores of positive valence (β = -0.38, p = 0.035) and arousal regulatory systems (β = -0.43, p = 0.015) derived from a text classification algorithm applied to medical records. OPRL1 showed disrupted circadian rhythmicity in AD cases (p = 0.151 vs. p = 0.020 in controls).These findings suggest distinct roles for PNOC and OPRL1 in AD pathology, with PNOC primarily associated with psychiatric symptoms and OPRL1 showing disrupted circadian regulation. Sex-specific expression patterns further indicate the need for personalized therapeutic approaches targeting the nociceptin system.
This study investigated how Sirtuin 1 (Sirt1) protects against sevoflurane-induced postoperative cognitive dysfunction (POCD) in aged rats by targeting N-acetyltransferase 10 (NAT10)-mediated mRNA acetylation and mitochondrial homeostasis.Aged rats received sevoflurane exposure and AAV-mediated Sirt1/Nat10 manipulation. We assessed autophagy (WB, LC3/TOM20 colocalization), energy metabolism (ROS/ATP, JC-1), and Gababr1 expression (RT-qPCR, immunofluorescence). Cognitive function was evaluated using Y-maze, NORT, and MWM. scRNA-seq identified neuronal subpopulations, while RIP-qPCR/dot blot analyzed Nat10-Gababr1 mRNA interactions. Patch-clamp recordings measured IPSC_slow amplitudes.Sevoflurane increased NAT10 expression and Gababr1 mRNA ac4C acetylation. Sirt1 overexpression deacetylated NAT10, restoring autophagy (↑LC3-II), reducing ROS, and improving cognition. scRNA-seq revealed SIRT1 enrichment in high-autophagy neurons. Nat10 knockdown decreased Gababr1 expression and cognitive deficits. Electrophysiology confirmed SIRT1-mediated reduction of Baclofen-induced IPSC_slow via NAT10 deacetylation.SIRT1 alleviates POCD by deacetylating NAT10 to reduce Gababr1 mRNA acetylation, thereby normalizing synaptic inhibition and restoring metabolic-autophagic balance. The SIRT1-NAT10-GABABR1 axis represents a novel therapeutic target for anesthesia-related neurotoxicity.© 2026 The Author(s). CNS Neuroscience & Therapeutics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Major depressive disorder (MDD) has been characterized by widespread functional network alterations. However, previous neuroimaging studies have predominantly focused on inter-regional functional connectivity, overlooking intrinsic temporal hierarchies that reflect fundamental neural processing properties.We quantified intrinsic neural timescales (INT), a measure of temporal autocorrelation in intrinsic neural activity, across cortical and subcortical structures using resting-state functional MRI in patients with MDD and controls. We also assessed the associations between the INT alterations and depressive symptom and age effects. To elucidate neurobiological substrates of the INT alterations, we examined spatial associations with transcriptomic and neurotransmitters profiles.Patients with MDD exhibited widespread INT reductions across bilateral cingulate, insular, and frontoparietal cortices and subcortical structures. The association between age and INT differed between groups, with patients showing age-related INT increases in the posterior cingulate cortex. Transcriptomic analyses identified gene signatures enriched for synaptic transmission, glutamatergic pathways, and ion channel regulation, showing significant overlap with astrocyte- and excitatory-neuron-specific markers. Neurotransmitter mapping revealed associations spanning serotonergic, GABAergic, glutamatergic, and cholinergic receptor systems.These findings reveal widespread INT reductions in MDD and their spatial correspondence with normative transcriptomic and neurotransmitter profiles. The co-localization of INT alterations with normative gene expression enriched for synaptic and glutamatergic pathways provides insights into the molecular context of intrinsic temporal processing abnormalities in MDD.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Lethal-wasting (lew) is a spontaneous null mutation in the Syb1/Vamp1 gene encoding the vesicular SNARE protein synaptobrevin 1 (SYB1/VAMP1). Homozygous Syb1 lew/lew mice exhibit profound impairment in neuromuscular transmission and die around three weeks after birth. Pathogenic variants in human SYB1 are associated with a variety of disorders such as hereditary spastic ataxia and congenital myasthenic syndrome. Although Syb1 expression is highly enriched in neurons, it has also been reported in non-neuronal tissues, raising the possibility that non-neuronal defects contribute to the lethal phenotype. Here, we tested whether neuronal dysfunction is the primary cause of death in Syb1 lew/lew mice and whether the closely related isoform synaptobrevin 2 (Syb2/VAMP2) can substitute for Syb1functin in vivo . We show that neuron-specific expression of ECFP-Syb2 in Syb1 lew/lew mice fully rescues lethality in Syb1 lew/lew mice, restoring normal growth and motor function. Electrophysiological analyses demonstrate complete recovery of neuromuscular synaptic transmission, including spontaneous and evoked release as well as short-term plasticity. These findings establish that neuronal expression of ECFP-Syb2 is sufficient to prevent the lethal phenotype associated with Syb1 deficiency and demonstrate that Syb2 can functionally replace Syb1 at motor nerve terminals in vivo .Neuron-specific expression of Syb2 fully rescues survival, motor function, and neuromuscular transmission in Syb1 lew/lew mice. These findings establish presynaptic Syb1 dysfunction as the primary cause of the lethal phenotype and demonstrate that Syb2 can fully substitute for Syb1 in vivo .
Differences in working memory (WM) may serve to distinguish bipolar disorder depression (BDD) from major depressive disorder (MDD). This work aims to utilize degree centrality (DC), a metric of graph theory, to explore whole-brain dynamic functional connectivity alterations related to WM in the two disorders.We calculated the coefficient variation of dynamic DC (CVDC) and utilized clustering analysis to identify persistent meta-stable states of DC configuration in BDD, MDD, and healthy controls (HC) during n-back tasks. We further tested associations of the altered DC and clinical symptoms. Meanwhile, imaging transcriptomic analysis was used to explore the genetic mechanisms underlying the differences in DC between BDD and MDD.No significant difference was observed in CVDC among the three groups. In the meta-stable state 1 under the '2-back vs. 0-back' contrast, there showed a ladder-like pattern across BDD, MDD, and HC in bilateral parahippocampal gyri, left anterior cingulate cortex, left Heschl gyrus, right precentral gyrus, right precuneus, bilateral middle temporal gyrius, right inferior frontal gyrus, and right superior frontal gyrus. Significant DC differences between BDD and MDD in the right superior frontal gyrus and right middle temporal gyrus were primarily associated with gene enrichment in the chemical synaptic transmission, glutamatergic synapse, calcium ion binding, and pathways of neurodegeneration-multiple diseases pathway.BDD and MDD showed highly similar aberrant dynamic characteristics of brain functional connectivity when facing increased cognitive demands, but BDD showed a relatively greater magnitude than MDD.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41972535 is a review article
Scaffold attachment factor B (SAFB) proteins are evolutionarily conserved DNA/RNA binding proteins that are involved in multiple processes of gene expression. These proteins are broadly expressed with particular high expression observed in the nervous system. However, their physiological roles in neurons are largely unclear. Here we show that PHM-2, the sole SAFB ortholog in C. elegans, regulates synaptic transmission at the neuromuscular junctions through an effect on SLO-2 potassium channel. We found that phm-2 mutants suppress a sluggish phenotype of worms expressing a hyperactive SLO-2 channel, greatly reduces SLO-2-mediated neuronal whole-cell currents, and enhances neuromuscular synaptic transmission. In addition, we found that PHM-2 genetically interacts with another DNA/RNA binding protein, HRPU-2/hnRNP U, to control SLO-2 expression through a posttranscriptional mechanism. These results reveal a novel function of a SAFB protein in regulating neuronal activity, and may help understand the physiological roles of SAFB proteins in the nervous system of other species.Copyright: © 2026 Niu et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
To investigate abnormal patterns of intrinsic neural timescales (INT) in first-episode schizophrenia across different ages of onset, with a focus on differences in neural temporal-dynamic characteristics between early-onset and adult-onset patients.We collected resting-state fMRI data from 231 first-episode schizophrenia patients (early-onset, n = 122; adult-onset, n = 109) and 153 healthy controls (younger controls, n = 61; older controls, n = 92). INT was computed from the autocorrelation function of the fMRI signal. A two-way ANOVA tested the Diagnosis × Age-of-onset interaction. Further analyses included between-group comparisons, correlation analyses, and imaging transcriptomic analysis.Fourteen region of interests (ROIs) showed significant interaction effects (P < 0.05/264), predominantly located within the default mode network (DMN, 9 ROIs), with additional involvement of sensorimotor, frontoparietal, memory retrieval, and dorsal attention networks. Group comparisons indicated that early-onset patients exhibited more widespread INT reductions across multiple regions relative to age-matched controls, whereas INT abnormalities in adult-onset patients were more restricted and primarily centered on the DMN. Interaction effects on INT were possibly associated with gene enrichment related to chemical synaptic transmission, glutamatergic signaling, and calcium/calmodulin-dependent kinase activity.INT abnormalities in first-episode schizophrenia are dependent on age of onset: the early-onset subtype shows widespread shortening of timescales across multiple brain networks, suggesting broad neurodevelopmental compromise, whereas the adult-onset subtype exhibits more focal abnormalities centered on the DMN. These findings suggested that INT may serve as a potential neuroimaging biomarker for distinguishing onset-age subtypes, aiding precise stratification and mechanistic studies of schizophrenia.© 2026 The Author(s). Psychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences © 2026 Japanese Society of Psychiatry and Neurology.
Scaffold attachment factor B (SAFB) proteins are evolutionarily conserved DNA/RNA binding proteins that are involved in multiple processes of gene expression. These proteins are broadly expressed with particular high expression observed in the nervous system. However, their physiological roles in neurons are largely unclear. Here we show that PHM-2, the sole SAFB ortholog in C. elegans, regulates synaptic transmission at the neuromuscular junctions through an effect on SLO-2 potassium channel. We found that phm-2 knockout suppresses a sluggish phenotype of worms expressing a hyperactive SLO-2 channel, greatly reduces SLO-2-mediated neuronal whole-cell currents, and enhances neuromuscular synaptic transmission. In addition, we found that PHM-2 genetically interacts with another DNA/RNA binding protein, HRPU-2/hnRNP U, to control SLO-2 expression through a posttranscriptional mechanism. These results reveal a novel function of a SAFB protein in regulating neuronal activity, and may help understand the physiological roles of SAFB proteins in the nervous system of other species.
Myasthenia gravis (MG) is an autoimmune disease characterized by disrupted neuromuscular synaptic transmission. Efgartigimod, a human Fc receptor antagonist, has been approved for patients with MG. Its potential use for other IgG-mediated neurological autoimmune diseases is unclear. This study aimed to retrospectively evaluate the efficacy and safety of efgartigimod in patients with neurological autoimmune diseases.This retrospective study investigated patients with neurological autoimmune diseases who were treated with efgartigimod in the Henan Provincial People's Hospital. The efficacy of the medication was analyzed using the quality-of-life improvement score and the IgG level pre- and post-efgartigimod treatment. The safety of the medication was assessed by considering adverse events and blood parameters. The blood parameters, including routine blood parameters, coagulation, liver, kidney, and immune function.Seventeen patients received efgartigimod in the Henan Provincial People's Hospital from September 1, 2023, to January 31, 2024. In MG patients, myasthenia gravis activities of daily living (MG-ADL) reduced after efgartigimod treatment for 4 weeks compared with baseline (P < 0.05). Autoimmune encephalitis (AE) is a group of inflammatory disease with antibodies against neuronal synaptic and cell surface antigens. Similarly, patients with AE had a statistically significant reduction in modified Rankin scale (mRS) after efgartigimod treatment for 4 weeks compared with baseline (P < 0.05). Guillain Barre syndrome (GBS) is an immune-mediated disease of the peripheral nerves and nerve roots. However, the inflammatory neuropathy cause and treatment (INCAT) scale score didn't statistically differ in GBS patients before and after efgartigimod treatment (P > 0.05). The IgG levels significantly reduced after the first infusion and gradually decreased after multiple infusions (P < 0.05). Most subjects did not have increased IgG serum levels before treatment. IgA, IgM, and complement levels didn't differ significantly with efgartigimod treatment (P > 0.05). There were no changes in blood parameters during the treatment (P > 0.05).Efgartigimod was effective and safe in neurological IgG-mediated autoimmune diseases, even in patients without increased IgG serum levels.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.
DNA methylation forms 5-methylcytosine and its regulation in the hippocampus is critical for learning and memory. Indeed, dysregulation of DNA methylation is associated with neurological diseases. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the predominant of dementia and a neurodegenerative disorder.We examined the learning and memory function in 3- and 9-month-old wild-type and 5xfamiliar Alzheimer's disease (5xFAD) transgenic mice by performing the object recognition memory and Y-maze tests, and identified the hippocampal amyloid beta burden. To investigate the epigenetically regulated genes involved in the development or neuropathology of AD, we performed genome-wide DNA methylation sequencing and RNA sequencing analyses in the hippocampus of 9-month-old wild-type and 5xFAD tg mice. To validate the genes inversely regulated by epigenetics, we confirmed their methylation status and mRNA levels.At 9 months of age, 5xFAD tg mice showed significant cognitive impairment and amyloid-beta plaques in the hippocampus. DNA methylation sequencing identified a total of 13,777 differentially methylated regions, including 4484 of hyper- and 9293 of hypomethylated regions, that are associated with several gene ontology (GO) terms including 'nervous system development' and 'axon guidance'. In RNA sequencing analysis, we confirmed a total of 101 differentially expressed genes, including 52 up- and 49 downregulated genes, associated with GO functions such as 'positive regulation of synaptic transmission, glutamatergic' and 'actin filament organization'. Through further integrated analysis of DNA methylation and RNA sequencing, three epigenetically regulated genes were selected: thymus cell antigen 1, theta (Thy1), myosin VI (Myo6), and filamin A-interacting protein 1-like (Filip1l). The methylation level of Thy1 decreased and its mRNA levels increased, whereas that of Myo6 and Filip1l increased and their mRNA levels decreased. The common functions of these three genes may be associated with the neural cytoskeleton and synaptic plasticity.We suggest that the candidate genes epigenetically play a role in AD-associated neuropathology (i.e., amyloid-beta plaques) and memory deficit by influencing neural structure and synaptic plasticity. Furthermore, counteracting dysregulated epigenetic changes may delay or ameliorate AD onset or symptoms.© 2024 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Myasthenia gravis is a chronic antibody-mediated autoimmune disease disrupting neuromuscular synaptic transmission. Informative biomarkers remain an unmet need to stratify patients with active disease requiring intensified monitoring and therapy; their identification is the primary objective of this study. We applied mass spectrometry-based proteomic serum profiling for biomarker discovery. We studied an exploration and a prospective validation cohort consisting of 114 and 140 anti-acetylcholine receptor antibody (AChR-Ab)-positive myasthenia gravis patients, respectively. For downstream analysis, we applied a machine learning approach. Protein expression levels were confirmed by ELISA and compared to other myasthenic cohorts, in addition to myositis and neuropathy patients. Anti-AChR-Ab levels were determined by a radio receptor assay. Immunohistochemistry and immunofluorescence of intercostal muscle biopsies were employed for validation in addition to interactome studies of inter-alpha-trypsin inhibitor heavy chain H3 (ITIH3). Machine learning identified ITIH3 as potential serum biomarker reflective of disease activity. Serum levels correlated with disease activity scores in the exploration and validation cohort and were confirmed by ELISA. Lack of correlation between anti-AChR-Ab levels and clinical scores underlined the need for biomarkers. In a subgroup analysis, ITIH3 was indicative of treatment responses. Immunostaining of muscle specimens from these patients demonstrated ITIH3 localization at the neuromuscular endplates in myasthenia gravis but not in controls, thus providing a structural equivalent for our serological findings. Immunoprecipitation of ITIH3 and subsequent proteomics lead to identification of its interaction partners playing crucial roles in neuromuscular transmission. This study provides data on ITIH3 as a potential pathophysiological-relevant biomarker of disease activity in myasthenia gravis. Future studies are required to facilitate translation into clinical practice.© 2024. The Author(s).
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 20301623
