Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is a major cause of severe acute lower respiratory tract infections (ALRI), with incomplete elucidation of its pathogenesis and intricate host-virus crosstalk constraining the development of effective therapies. The post-transcriptional interplay among microRNAs (miRNAs), RNA-binding proteins (RBPs), and alternative splicing (AS) is a critical, yet underexplored host response layer.We integrated and analyzed three public datasets (GSE231784, GSE231788, and GSE155151) of RSV-infected A549 cells, screened differentially expressed miRNAs, identified conserved differentially expressed RBPs, used SUVA to detect AS events, and constructed a miRNA-RBP-AS network to find core axis. This integrated bioinformatics approach enabled systematic dissection of multi-layered post-transcriptional regulation during RSV infection.Our analysis revealed that RSV infection substantially alters host post-transcriptional regulation, with 86 conserved differentially expressed RBPs and 94 conserved AS events identified. A potential miRNA-RBP-AS axis was uncovered via regulatory network construction. Crucially, this axis suggests that the downregulation of let-7 family miRNAs (e.g., let-7f-2-3p, let-7a-3p) is strongly associated with the upregulation of the RBP genes SAMD4A and ENOX1. The expression of these RBPs, in turn, correlates with the AS of host genes that are implicated in viral replication and immunity, such as TNIP1 and NR5A2.These findings propose that RSV may exploit this post-transcriptional crosstalk to modulate host immunity and facilitate viral replication. Through bioinformatics analysis, this study provides a novel, system-level map of RSV-host interactions and identifies the let-7-SAMD4A/ENOX1-TNIP1/NR5A2 axis as a promising new target for future antiviral strategies, though this requires further experimental validation.Copyright (c) 2026 Mingzhen Cheng, Hongtao Xu, Fang Yuan, Shuangshuang Li.
IDH-wildtype glioblastoma exhibits substantial biological heterogeneity despite current molecular classification. Although dynamic malignant cell states have been described, molecular features that position tumors along these states remain incompletely defined. We investigated whether ZIC3 expression identifies a transcriptional state associated with clinical outcome in IDH-wildtype glioblastoma.RNA sequencing and clinical data from The Cancer Genome Atlas glioblastoma cohort were analyzed after restriction to genomically confirmed IDH-wildtype tumors (n = 167). Survival analyses were performed in patients with available survival data (n = 161) using Cox proportional hazards regression and Kaplan-Meier analysis. Associations with MGMT promoter methylation, tumor microenvironment scores, differential expression, gene set enrichment, and single-cell RNA sequencing data were evaluated to characterize transcriptional programs associated with ZIC3 expression.Higher ZIC3 expression was associated with longer overall and progression-free survival and remained associated with a more favorable survival profile after adjustment for age, sex, radiotherapy, and temozolomide treatment. ZIC3 expression was not associated with MGMT promoter methylation or with ESTIMATE-derived stromal, immune, or composite scores. In the single-cell dataset, ZIC3-positive cells were more frequent in malignant tumor cells than in non-malignant cells. ZIC3-high tumors showed enrichment of neural lineage-associated and blood-brain barrier-related programs, whereas ZIC3-low tumors showed enrichment of hypoxia-related, glycolytic, and metabolic stress programs. Ordered heatmap analysis showed that lineage-associated genes and hypoxia-related genes varied inversely across tumors ordered by ZIC3 expression.ZIC3 expression appears to mark a developmental transcriptional axis in IDH-wildtype glioblastoma that links neural lineage-associated programs to hypoxia-adaptive tumor states.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.
Dentinogenesis, a process essential for tooth function, relies on the precise differentiation of dental papilla cells into odontoblasts. This lineage commitment is governed by complex transcription factor networks. RUNX2 and KLF4, known key TFs co-expressed in this process, were proven to operate synergistically, but the specific cofactors coordinating their activity at the chromatin level remain unknown. Here, we identify the chromatin remodeller BRD9 as a novel interactor of both RUNX2 and KLF4 during odontoblastic differentiation. To probe their shared function, we generated neural crest-specific conditional knockout mice. Wnt1-Cre; Brd9fl/fl mice exhibited a disordered odontoblast layer with reduced secretion of extracellular matrix proteins (DMP1 and DSPP), strikingly phenocopying the compound Wnt1-Cre; Runx2fl/wt; Klf4fl/fl mutants. In vitro, chemical BRD9 degradation suppressed odontoblastic differentiation and mineral deposition. Integrative analyses of RNA-seq and ATAC-seq revealed that BRD9 maintained chromatin accessibility at odontogenesis-associated regions enriched with RUNX2 and KLF4 motifs, specifically at the Fam20c enhancer, thereby facilitating RUNX2 and KLF4 binding for transcriptional activation. Crucially, exogenous supplementation of FAM20C protein partially rescued the odontoblastic differentiation defects upon BRD9 loss. These findings establish BRD9 as a critical epigenetic orchestrator that coordinates RUNX2-KLF4 synergy to activate key odontogenic genes like Fam20c, thus affecting odontoblastic differentiation and dentinogenesis.© 2026 The Author(s). Cell Proliferation published by Beijing Institute for Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
TRIB3 is upregulated in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and associates with worse survival, yet targeted therapeutics remain lacking. Calcium phosphate (CaP) nanoparticles offer biocompatible, serum-stable delivery for siRNA therapy. Here, we developed CaP nanoparticles loading siRNA targeting TRIB3 (NPCaP/siTrib3) and evaluated antitumor efficacy and mechanisms in vitro and in vivo.NPCaP/siTrib3 was synthesized via biomineralization, and RNase resistance was verified by PAGE. Mouse KP-1 NSCLC cells were used for transfection, apoptosis (Annexin V/7-AAD), migration (scratch), invasion (Matrigel Transwell), qRT-PCR, and Western blot of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and stemness markers. C57BL/6 subcutaneous tumor models received tail-vein injections for efficacy and biosafety assessment.TRIB3 was significantly upregulated in NSCLC tissues compared with normal lung tissues and was associated with poorer overall survival. NPCaP/siTrib3 formed nanosheets with an average size of approximately 159.4 nm and exhibited a more negative zeta potential than bare CaP, indicating successful siRNA loading. The CaP shell effectively protected siTrib3 from RNase degradation. NPCaP/siTrib3 efficiently silenced TRIB3 protein expression in KP-1 cells, with gene knockdown efficacy comparable to Lipo8000 but with lower cytotoxicity. Functionally, NPCaP/siTrib3 significantly promoted apoptosis and inhibited cell migration and invasion. In vivo, intravenously administered NPCaP/siTrib3, which primarily accumulated in tumors through the enhanced permeability and retention (EPR) effect, markedly suppressed tumor growth without affecting body weight. Mechanistically, NPCaP/siTrib3 reversed EMT by upregulating E-cadherin and downregulating N-cadherin and Snail, and reduced cancer stemness by decreasing the expression of Sox2, Nanog, Pou5f1, Klf4, and c-Myc. Biosafety evaluations demonstrated negligible hemolysis, normal serum biochemistry and hematology, and no histopathological damage in major organs.NPCaP/siTrib3 is an effective and biocompatible siRNA nanoplatform that suppresses NSCLC progression through dual inhibition of EMT and cancer stemness, supporting TRIB3 as a promising therapeutic target.© 2026 Wu et al.
RNA 5-methylcytosine (m5C) methylation has emerged as an important epitranscriptomic regulator of gene expression, yet its role in stem cell maintenance remains not well understood. Here we identify a previously unrecognized function of the m5C methyltransferase NSUN2 in protecting stem cells from ferroptosis and promoting tissue regeneration. NSUN2 deletion reduced GPX4 expression, decreased intracellular GSH levels, increased Fe2+ accumulation, and enhanced lipid peroxidation in stem cells, leading to ferroptotic cell death, loss of tissue stem cells and impaired tissue regeneration across multiple organs. Mechanistically, NSUN2 catalyzed m5C methylation of Klf4 mRNA, thereby increasing KLF4 expression and transcriptionally promoting GPX4 to suppress ferroptosis in stem cells. Importantly, KLF4 restoration in vivo rescued NSUN2 deficiency-induced stem cell defects and impaired tissue regeneration. Furthermore, NSUN2 gene therapy significantly bolstered tissue stem cells with superior tissue regeneration and repair in multiple tissues. These findings highlight the NSUN2/KLF4/GPX4 axis in safeguarding stem cells against ferroptosis for tissue repair and a promising therapeutic value of NSUN2 in regenerative medicine.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The heterogeneity and complex tumor microenvironment of lung adenocarcinoma lead to poor prognosis. Autophagy, as a key cellular process, interacts with tumor immune infiltration and jointly affects the progression of lung adenocarcinoma, but its core regulatory genes and mechanisms are still unclear.This study integrated three lung adenocarcinoma transcriptome datasets from the GEO database and performed cross-analysis with the human autophagy gene set to screen for differentially expressed autophagy-related genes. Identify core prognostic genes by constructing protein interaction networks and combining them with machine learning algorithms (Cox regression, SHAP analysis). Use the independent dataset GSE68465 to validate the model through a combination of 100 algorithms. Further elucidate the function, cellular localization, and association with smoking risk of core genes through enrichment analysis, immune infiltration assessment, single-cell transcriptome analysis, and network toxicology.A total of 276 shared autophagy‑related differentially expressed genes were identified. Using machine learning, five core genes-ENG, CDH1, KLF4, IL6, and MMP9-were selected. In the independent validation cohort, the prognostic model based on these genes demonstrated strong diagnostic performance (AUC > 0.9). Enrichment analysis revealed that the core genes were significantly enriched in pathways such as cellular senescence, autophagy, and FoxO signaling. Immune infiltration analysis showed that M1 macrophages and naïve B cells were significantly upregulated in tumor tissues, whereas resting dendritic cells were downregulated. Single‑cell analysis identified specific expression of genes including CDH1 and TGFB1 in type II alveolar cells and immune cells. Network toxicology and molecular docking confirmed that nicotine, a major component of cigarette smoke, exhibits high‑affinity binding to the core genes CDH1, HIF1A, KLF4, TGFB1, and BCL2.This study successfully identified and validated a robust prognostic feature consisting of five autophagy-related genes. These genes play a key role in the development of lung adenocarcinoma by regulating the tumor immune microenvironment, cell communication, and responding to external risk factors, providing new potential targets for prognosis prediction and targeted therapy.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Does NR5A2 (nuclear receptor subfamily 5 group A member 2) play a role in the dysregulation of granulosa cells in polyendocrine metabolic ovarian syndrome (PMOS), which is a common endocrine disorder and a leading cause of anovulatory infertility, and what are its underlying regulatory mechanisms?The mRNA expression levels of NR5A2 and related genes were assessed in human granulosa cells (HGCs) isolated from patients with or without PMOS. To investigate the effects of NR5A2 on inflammation and proliferation of granulosa cells, as well as the underlying molecular mechanisms, in-vitro experiments were conducted using the KGN human granulosa-like cell line.Overexpression of NR5A2 promoted cell proliferation and induced G1-to-S phase transition in KGN cells, at least in part by upregulating cyclin D1 (CCND1) expression. NR5A2 acted as a co-activator of NF-κB p65 (also known as RelA) by increasing its phosphorylation and nuclear localization, thereby increasing CCND1 expression through transcriptional regulation. Furthermore, NR5A2 regulated the IL-1β positive self-regulatory loop via the NF-κB p65 signalling pathway.Up-regulated NR5A2 may contribute to chronic inflammation and aberrant proliferation of granulosa cells by increasing NF-κB p65 activity. These findings highlight NR5A2 as a potential therapeutic target for ameliorating ovarian dysfunction in patients with PMOS.Copyright © 2026 Reproductive Healthcare Ltd. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
This study investigated the role of Krüppel-like factor 4 (KLF4) in macrophage-mediated inflammation in type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) with psoriasis. KLF4, tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases 3 (TIMP3)/a disintegrin and a metalloproteinase domain 17 (ADAM17) levels were measured in skin samples from patients. A diabetic psoriasis-like dermatitis mouse model was established using imiquimod (IMQ) and treated with KLF4-overexpressing lentivirus. Glucose/lipid metabolism, skin pathology, mast cell counts, and inflammatory markers were assessed. Macrophage status was evaluated by F4/80 staining. KLF4 was downregulated in patients with T2DM with psoriasis. In mice with diabetic psoriasis-like dermatitis. KLF4 overexpression improved glucose/lipid metabolism and reduced skin erythema, scaling, thickening, psoriasis area severity index, and mast cell infiltration. KLF4 also decreased inflammation and modulated the TIMP3/ADAM17 pathway. These findings indicate that KLF4 ameliorates IMQ-induced inflammation via the TIMP3/ADAM17 pathway in diabetic psoriasis-like dermatitis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Avian limbs have evolved precise digit lengths and shapes that are optimized for flight and locomotion, but the transcriptional regulators that regulate this architecture remain poorly defined. Although anteriorly biased Zic3 expression constrains digit outgrowth, whether other zinc finger of the cerebellum (Zic) factors-particularly Zic5-shape avian distal limb morphology remains unknown. Here, we define the spatiotemporal dynamics and developmental function of Zic5 expression in the chicken limb and evaluate its role in shaping avian limb and digit morphogenesis. Whole-mount in situ hybridization reveals that Zic5 shows a dynamic, stage-dependent shift from broad distal mesenchymal expression to digit-base-restricted domains in the chicken limb, consistent with a role in constraining digit elongation to shape fore-hind limb morphology. Overexpression of Zic5 in the chicken limb buds resulted in shortened digits and impaired limb ossification. These phenotypes were accompanied with altered expression of skeletal marker genes, including Sox9, Runx2, Col9a1, Col9a3, Ptch2 and Hhip, suggesting that elevated Zic5 expression is sufficient to impair skeletal maturation during limb development. Together, our results indicate that elevated Zic5 expression can impair limb skeletal growth and maturation, with effects on distal digit development that result in digit shortening or loss and suggest that Zic5 may contribute to the regulation of digit architecture during avian morphological diversification.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Methods: To assess the impact of TBX1 on the proliferation and colony-forming capacity of colorectal cancer cells, in vitro functional investigations were carried out. Concurrently, a subcutaneous xenograft mouse model was established to determine the influence of TBX1 on tumor growth in vivo. Through a series of molecular and biochemical experiments, the underlying mechanism through which TBX1 exerts its effects in colorectal cancer cells was elucidated.Our findings revealed that TBX1 was significantly downregulated in colorectal cancers as compared to non-cancerous tissues. We showed that the ectopic expression of TBX1 potently inhibited cell proliferation, colony-forming ability, cell apoptosis, cell migration, cell invasion in colorectal cancer cells, and tumor growth in nude mice. This suppressive effect was achieved via the suppression of the MAPK/ERK and PI3K/AKT signaling pathways. Subsequent investigations indicated that TBX1 exerted its inhibitory influence on these two pathways by transcriptionally activating protein phosphatase 2 regulatory subunit B (PPP2R2B) directly, thereby fulfilling TBX1's tumor-suppressor functions. As anticipated, the knockdown of PPP2R2B remarkably alleviated the inhibitory impact of TBX1 on cell proliferation and colony formation. Moreover, it also significantly mitigated the inhibitory effects on the activities of the MAPK/ERK and PI3K/AKT pathways.The current investigation demonstrates that TBX1 acts as a potential tumor suppressor in colorectal cancer cells by inhibiting the MAPK/ERK and PI3K/AKT signaling cascades depending on PPP2R2B.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Pulmonary hypertension is a malignant cardiovascular disease characterized by pulmonary vascular remodeling, with core pathological features including pulmonary arterial wall thickening and elevated pulmonary vascular remodeling due to aberrant proliferation of pulmonary arterial smooth muscle cells (PASMCs). The molecular regulatory mechanisms underlying pulmonary vascular remodeling remain incompletely understood.Transcriptome sequencing was employed to screen for differentially expressed genes in lung artery tissues of control and Sugen5416 combined hypoxia-induced rat models. A series of in vitro and in vivo experiments, including scratch assays, EdU staining, Cell Counting Kit-8cell proliferation assays, immunofluorescence, immunoblotting, and overexpression/knockdown techniques, were performed to investigate the molecular mechanism by which KRT17 (keratin 17) induces PASMCs proliferation and promotes pulmonary hypertension vascular remodeling.KRT17 was found to be highly expressed in lung tissues of patients with pulmonary hypertension, as well as in pulmonary arterial tissue and hypoxic PASMCs models. Both in vivo and in vitro experiments demonstrated that KRT17 was a critical regulator of PASMCs proliferation. METTL14 (methyltransferasean14, an m6A methyltransferase complex subunit) was identified as a potential modulator of KRT17 RNA methylation, enhancing its RNA stability and protein expression. Furthermore, KRT17 promoted PASMCs proliferation through upregulation of LCN2 (lipocalin-2).Our study reveals a novel molecular mechanism by which KRT17 expression is regulated via METTL14-mediated m6A methylation, and further elucidates the role of KRT17 in inducing PASMCs proliferation through the LCN2 signaling pathway. These findings provide significant theoretical insights for the development of innovative therapeutic targets for pulmonary hypertension.
Out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA) is a global health issue with low survival rates, for which bystander cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) is crucial. In China, bystander CPR rates and public proficiency remain low. Children-an important future first-responder group-also lack adequate training. Gamification and virtual reality (VR) technologies show potential in enhancing training effectiveness, but research on the needs, acceptability, and functional requirements of gamified CPR training kits from children's and parents' dual perspectives is insufficient, providing a realistic basis for this study.This study aimed to investigate children's and parents' needs, acceptability, and functional requirements for the development of gamified CPR training kits.A cross-sectional qualitative design was adopted. Inclusion criteria were children aged 6 to 12 years, their parents, adequate communication skills, and voluntary informed consent, with purposive sampling to recruit 13 parent-child dyads from a primary school in Changsha, Hunan Province. The participants included children aged 6 to 12 years (average age 9.50, SD 1.50 y, 6 boys and 7 girls) and their parents (average age 38.50, SD 2.50 y, 6 female and 7 male individuals). Semistructured interviews were conducted separately for children and parents, with audio recording and verbatim transcription. The NVivo 12.0 (QSR International Pty Ltd) software was used for thematic coding and analysis, and dual independent coding (by 2 researchers) was performed to ensure rigor, with discrepancies resolved through team discussion. Thematic saturation, defined as codebook stabilization and no new themes across 3 consecutive interviews, was achieved after 13 dyads. The study followed the COREQ (Consolidated Criteria for Reporting Qualitative Research) guidelines, and all procedures were approved by the ethics committee.Four main themes and 9 subthemes emerged from the data: (1) children's approaches to acquiring CPR-related knowledge and skills (through school-organized first aid activities, family members, or social media platforms), (2) attitudes toward gamified training kits (children's receptiveness and parental preferences regarding such tools), (3) expectations for gamified CPR training kits (child-friendly design, effective skill training, personalized feedback, and scientifically grounded content), and (4) challenges in gamified science education (ensuring product safety and professionalism and contextualizing game scenarios to everyday life).As children are an important reserve force for future first responders, cultivating their first aid awareness is crucial for improving public emergency response capabilities. Effective gamified CPR training kit development requires integrating children's and parents' perceptions to balance entertainment, education, and practicality. This study innovatively explores dual user needs, differing from prior research focused on training outcomes rather than predevelopment requirements. It addresses gaps in pediatric first aid tool design and provides evidence-based references for the development of child-friendly, professional, gamified training resources-laying a foundation for gradually enhancing CPR literacy and emergency response awareness among children in China.© Pan Wang, Zeya Shi, Furong Xu, Ying Huang, Yu Tian. Originally published in JMIR Serious Games (https://games.jmir.org).
Allergen immunotherapy (AIT) remains the only disease-modifying treatment for respiratory allergic diseases and the only intervention capable of preventing systemic sting reactions in patients with venom allergy (VA)﻿. This review summarizes recent real-world evidence on the safety of AIT.Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) have consistently established the safety of licensed AIT products; however, real-world data are needed to comprehensively evaluate the frequency and severity of adverse events (AEs)﻿ and identify risk factors in routine practice. Safety data collection through registries and prospective or retrospective cohorts has confirmed that AIT is generally well tolerated across larger and heterogeneous populations, healthcare settings, and AIT practices. However, rare systemic reactions (SRs)﻿ and exceptionally fatal reactions (FRs)﻿ continue to occur. Careful pretreatment evaluation and close monitoring remain crucial, particularly during subcutaneous immunotherapy due to the higher risk of systemic reactions. Data on sublingual immunotherapy support a more favourable safety profile, with infrequent systemic reactions and no fatal reactions reported to date. In venom allergy, new evidence on clonal mast cell disorders, hereditary α-tryptasemia and detection of KIT p. D816V in peripheral blood is refining risk stratification.Systemic and severe adverse events associated with AIT are infrequent. Careful risk stratification and evaluation before initiating immunotherapy can help identify high-risk patients and optimize the benefit-risk balance.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Osteosarcoma (OS) is a malignant bone tumor that predominantly affects adolescents. Due to its early metastatic tendency and chemoresistance, long-term survival rates in patients have not shown significant improvement over time, highlighting the urgent need for novel molecular targets and therapeutic strategies. Ferroptosis, a form of programmed cell death driven by iron-dependent lipid peroxidation, offers a promising avenue for overcoming drug-resistant tumors. ATP-binding cassette subfamily B member 6 (ABCB6) belongs to the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter superfamily and is mainly localised to the outer mitochondrial membrane, where it participates in haem synthesis and intracellular iron transport. Recent studies have indicated that ABCB6 is aberrantly expressed in various malignancies and regulates tumor progression, yet its role and mechanism in OS remain unexplored. The present study aims to systematically characterise the expression pattern, clinical prognostic significance, and biological functions of ABCB6 in OS, and to dissect the molecular mechanism by which ABCB6 governs ferroptosis in OS cells, thereby providing a theoretical foundation for ABCB6-targeted therapy.Human OS cell lines (HOS and 143B) and human bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) were used as research subjects. Stable ABCB6-knockdown OS cell lines were established via lentivirus-mediated RNA interference, and rescue experiments were performed using lentiviral overexpression of hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha (HIF1A). Cell proliferation was assessed by cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) and colony formation assays; migration was evaluated by Transwell and scratch wound-healing assays; apoptosis was detected by flow cytometry. Ferroptosis-related phenotypic assays were employed to determine the impact of ABCB6 expression on ferroptosis. Transcriptome sequencing was conducted to analyse differentially expressed genes and enriched pathways; chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and dual-luciferase reporter assays were applied to verify the direct binding of HIF1A to the promoter of glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) and its transcriptional regulation. Iron chelator and proteasome inhibitor interventions were used to validate the regulation of HIF1A protein stability by Fe2+. In vivo, ABCB6-knockdown and control 143B cells were injected subcutaneously into nude mice to establish a xenograft tumor model, and tumor growth was monitored.Both messenger RNA (mRNA) and protein levels of ABCB6 were significantly higher in OS cell lines than in BMSCs (both P<0.05), and analysis of the Therapeutically Applicable Research to Generate Effective Treatments (TARGET)-OS cohort revealed that patients with high ABCB6 expression had markedly worse overall survival than those with low expression [hazard ratio (HR)=2.94, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.36 to 6.36, P<0.05]. ABCB6 knockdown significantly suppressed OS cell proliferation and colony formation, reduced migratory capacity, and increased the apoptosis rate, accompanied by downregulation of N-cadherin and upregulation of E-cadherin and cleaved caspase-3 (all P<0.05). ABCB6 silencing markedly elevated the proportion of Liperfluo-positive cells and dihydroethidium (DHE) oxidation levels, increased intracellular Fe2+ concentration, decreased the glutathione (GSH)/oxidized glutathione (GSSG) ratio, reduced mitochondrial membrane potential, and induced typical ferroptotic mitochondrial morphological changes (shrinkage and cristae reduction) as observed by transmission electron microscope (all P<0.05); these oxidative alterations were reversed by the ferroptosis inhibitors. ABCB6 knockdown downregulated GPX4 at both protein and mRNA levels, whereas solute carrier family 7 member 11 (SLC7A11) expression remained unchanged (P>0.05). Transcriptome sequencing and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analysis showed significant enrichment of the HIF-1 signalling pathway in the control group (P<0.001); ABCB6 knockdown decreased HIF1A protein expression, and treatment with an iron chelator or a proteasome inhibitor reversed this degradation through Fe2+ chelation or inhibition of the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway, respectively (all P<0.05). Chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (ChIP-qPCR) and dual-luciferase reporter assays confirmed that HIF1A directly binds to the GPX4 promoter and activates its transcription. Overexpression of HIF1A in ABCB6-knockdown cells restored GPX4 expression and significantly rescued the proliferation inhibition, migration impairment, and apoptosis increase caused by ABCB6 silencing, while also restoring mitochondrial membrane potential (all P<0.05). In the xenograft model, tumors from the ABCB6-knockdown group exhibited significantly reduced volume and weight compared with the control group (all P<0.05); immunohistochemistry confirmed downregulation of HIF1A and GPX4, reduced Ki-67 and N-cadherin positivity, and increased cleaved caspase-3 and E-cadherin positivity in the knockdown group (all P<0.05).This study systematically uncovers, for the first time, the oncogenic role and prognostic value of ABCB6 in OS, and delineates the complete "ABCB6/Fe2+/HIF1A/GPX4" axis that governs ferroptosis in OS cells. These findings not only provide a novel biomarker for molecular subtyping and prognostic evaluation of OS, but also establish a theoretical basis for therapeutic strategies that target the ABCB6/HIF1A/GPX4 axis to induce ferroptosis. Future investigations may explore the upstream regulators of ABCB6 and its potential utility in reversing chemoresistance in OS.
Research has found that paraoxonase 1 (PON1) is closely related to cardiovascular disease, but the relationship between circulating PON1 levels and coronary artery stenosis (CAS) in patients with diabetes remains unclear.This study is a single-center, retrospective cross-sectional study that includes 34 patients with diabetes mellitus (DM) and 118 patients with DM and CAS (DM+CAS). All study participants were from Beijing Luhe Hospital, affiliated with Capital Medical University. In this study, data regarding demographic characteristics, medication history, and key laboratory parameters were collected. The concentration of plasma PON1 was quantified using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) kit. Multiple logistic regression models were employed to evaluate the connection between PON1 levels and the presence of CAS among patients with diabetes. Additionally, the diagnostic performance of PON1 levels for diabetes combined with CAS was evaluated utilizing the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve and the area under the curve (AUC).Compared with patients in the diabetes group, plasma PON1 levels were significantly lower in diabetic patients with CAS. To evaluate the correlation between PON1 levels and CAS among individuals with diabetes, three logistic regression models were developed. As a continuous variable, higher PON1 levels were found to be inversely related to CAS risk in all models. In tertile-stratified analyses, compared with T1, all other tertiles exhibited significantly reduced risk of CAS. The ROC curve demonstrated that the unadjusted AUC of PON1 levels was 0.662 (95% CI 0.561-0.762, p = 0.004), while the fully adjusted model yielded an AUC of 0.833 (95% CI: 0.758-0.908, p < 0.001).Plasma PON1 levels were significantly decreased and independently associated with CAS in diabetic patients. Circulating PON1 alone showed moderate diagnostic efficiency, whereas its predictive accuracy was greatly improved when combined with clinical covariates. The findings are limited by single-center enrollment, a small sample size, and a lack of subgroup analysis for stenosis severity. Moreover, only PON1 protein levels were examined, with no detection of PON1 enzymatic activity. Further large-scale multicenter prospective studies are needed to validate these results and clarify the clinical utility of PON1.Circulating PON1 levels are negatively correlated with CAS in diabetic patients. While PON1 alone has limited diagnostic value, its combination with clinical covariates significantly improves risk discrimination.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
To assess the association between different tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) and the risk of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE).PubMed, the Cochrane Library, Embase, WanFang Data, and CNKI were searched for randomized controlled trials (RCTs) from inception to June 2026.A total of 25 RCTs met the inclusion criteria, encompassing 9,068 patients. The risk of MACE was significantly higher in the TKI-treated group than in the control group (odds ratio [OR] = 2.13; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.11-4.07; P = 0.02). The ORs for QT prolongation, hypertension, and arrhythmias were 6.05 (95% CI, 3.70-9.89; P < 0.00001), 4.18 (95% CI, 2.19-7.95; P < 0.0001), and 5.40 (95% CI, 3.43-8.50; P < 0.00001), respectively. Subgroup analysis indicated that epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs) were associated with the highest risk of cardiovascular adverse events, followed by vascular endothelial growth factor receptor inhibitors (VEGFR-TKIs), platelet-derived growth factor receptor inhibitors (PDGFR-TKIs), and stem cell factor receptor inhibitors (c-Kit TKIs).TKI therapy significantly prolongs progression-free survival. However, the incidence of cardiovascular adverse events, including QT prolongation, hypertension, and arrhythmias, is notably higher with TKI use. EGFR-TKIs show the highest cardiovascular risk, followed by VEGFR-TKIs, PDGFR-TKIs, and c-Kit TKIs. Clinicians should be aware of these risks and ensure regular cardiovascular monitoring during treatment.https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/PROSPERO/view/CRD420251084805, identifier CRD420251084805.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Cheng, Zheng, Liu, Zhang, Gao and Li.
Clinical laboratories face increasing demand for testing while operating within constrained budgets, necessitating efficient resource utilisation. Test kit efficiency, a key parameter in automated laboratories, refers to the appropriate use of reagent kits in a manner that minimises non-billable tests per kit.Manufacturer-supplied monthly test kit efficiency data for 96 chemistry analytes, collected between 01 April and 30 September 2023, were assessed retrospectively and compared with their respective benchmark efficiencies. The findings were further compared to those from a previous audit to assess for an improvement or decline in efficiency. Under-performing analytes identified included total protein in cerebrospinal fluid, alkaline phosphatase, glucose, ferritin, direct bilirubin and vancomycin. Root cause analysis and targeted interventions led to improvements in test kit efficiency of 12.6% - 37.7% for each analyte.Auditing test kit efficiency data revealed inefficiencies, allowing targeted interventions to optimise kit use and reduce costs without compromising quality. Efficiency was influenced by analytical performance, test kit size and batching practices, underscoring the importance of data-driven decision-making for workflow optimisation and resource management. The audit revealed challenges with inherently inefficient tests, highlighting the need for tailored solutions based on the population served, reagent stability and sample stability.We recommend regular test kit efficiency audits to reduce wastage, optimise workflow and drive quality improvement. Efficiency data can support identification of problematic assays and guide kit size adjustment and batching strategies, while ensuring initiatives remain patient-centred. However, the lack of standardised regulatory guidelines on test kit utilisation remains a key limitation that requires attention.There is limited published evidence on the use of test kit efficiency data to drive quality improvement in clinical chemistry laboratories. This study demonstrates how systematic auditing can identify modifiable inefficiencies and support evidence-based resource optimisation.© 2026. The Authors.
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the most common subtype of lung cancer, characterized by high invasiveness, poor prognosis, and limited therapeutic options. Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), as a core component of the tumor microenvironment (TME), have been shown to promote the malignant progression of NSCLC, but the specific regulatory mechanisms remain incompletely understood. This study aims to investigate the role of CAFs and their metabolic products, particularly lactate, in the progression of NSCLC. CAFs and normal fibroblasts (NFs) were cultured, and the conditioned media (CM) were collected and used to treat NSCLC cells. Cell proliferation was assessed using CCK-8 and EdU assays, while cell migration was evaluated through transwell assays. The expression of E-cadherin and N-cadherin was detected by immunofluorescence (IF). Additionally, lactate levels, gene expression, and lactylation levels were assessed using a lactate detection kit, RT-qPCR, Western blot (WB), and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP). The CM from CAFs enhanced the proliferation, migration, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) of NSCLC cells. Our experiments revealed that the metabolites from CAFs, particularly lactate, had a promoting effect on NSCLC. In lactate-treated NSCLC cells, the expression levels of stemness genes were significantly upregulated, accompanied by increased lactylation levels of H3K18. In in vivo experiments, tumors from the lactate treatment group exhibited higher growth rates and increased expression of stemness genes. Furthermore, human NSCLC tumor tissues showed significant upregulation of stemness genes. This study demonstrates that lactate derived from CAFs promotes the expression of stemness genes by mediating H3K18 lactylation in the promoters of these genes in NSCLC cells, thereby accelerating the malignant phenotype formation of NSCLC cells. These findings provide new insights into the role of CAFs in the TME and identify potential therapeutic targets for NSCLC.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Basal cell carcinoma (BCC) and cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC) are the most prevalent cutaneous malignancies. C-Kit plays a role in tumor initiation, progress, recurrence, and metastasis. Several medicinal treatments target the c-Kit pathway. The aim of the study was to assess the expression of c-Kit in BCC and cSCC. Furthermore, the study aimed to correlate c-Kit expression with available pathological data of the tumor and clinical data of the patients. A total of 62 excision specimens from patients with BCC (n = 41) and cSCC (n = 21) were histopathologically and immunohistochemically evaluated using anti-c-Kit, a rabbit monoclonal antibody clone IHC526. More than half of BCC cases (63.4%) showed positive c-Kit expression. C-Kit expression was significantly correlated with age (p-value = 0.011). The intensity of positive c-Kit staining was statistically related to tumor size (p-value = 0.028). All cSCC cases (100%) showed negative c-Kit expression. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis demonstrated an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.817 (95% confidence interval: 0.714-0.920, p-value < 0.001), with a sensitivity of 63.4% and a specificity of 100% in differentiating BCC from cSCC. Assessment of c-Kit expression may be beneficial in the diagnosis of BCC and in distinguishing it from cSCC. Its high specificity supports its diagnostic utility; however, due to its moderate sensitivity, it should be interpreted in conjunction with routine histopathological findings. While this study was a diagnostic, it suggested that c-Kit inhibitors may have therapeutic effects in BCC cases that express c-Kit; however, more research is needed to validate this.© 2026. The Author(s).
Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST) are the most common mesenchymal tumors of the gastrointestinal tract. Current tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) targeting oncogenic KIT and PDGFRA have improved patient outcomes, yet off-target toxicities and drug resistance mutations remain major clinical challenges. Many approved TKIs, often repurposed from other cancer indications, harbor diverse hinge-binding motifs that limit activity against resistance mutations clustering in the ATP-binding pocket of the kinase domain. Here, we describe a structure-based scaffold-hopping strategy to design kinase inhibitors with selectivity for mutant KIT/PDGFRA. Using structure-activity relationship (SAR) studies and 14 determined co-crystal structures, including a structure of the PDGFRA-G680R solvent-front mutation, we define key molecular interactions underlying resistance and inhibitor selectivity. Our lead 6,7-quinazoline-based inhibitors show high potency against clinically relevant KIT/PDGFRA mutations and effectively suppress downstream signaling. These compounds provide selective chemical tools to interrogate resistance mechanisms, and the PDGFRA-G680R structure shows the molecular basis for targeting solvent-front mutations across oncogenic kinases.© 2026. The Author(s).
Gastric adenocarcinoma (GAC) remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality, particularly in patients with peritoneal carcinomatosis, for whom effective therapies are limited. We investigated the therapeutic efficacy and molecular mechanism of CYD-4-61, a BAX activator, using human GAC cell lines, patient-derived xenograft models, genetically engineered mouse models, and a syngeneic mouse model. CYD-4-61 potently inhibited tumor cell proliferation, induced apoptosis, and suppressed cancer stem cell-like properties, with enhanced activity in radiation-resistant GAC cells. Mechanistically, CYD-4-61 activated the BAX-caspase pathway, leading to SOX9 protein reduction. Integrated bulk and single-cell transcriptomic analyses identified SOX9-dependent transcriptional programs as major targets of CYD-4-61. Functional rescue experiments together with chromatin immunoprecipitation and CUT&RUN analyses supported CDK4 as a SOX9-regulated gene and demonstrated suppression of the SOX9-CDK4 regulatory axis following CYD-4-61 treatment. In multiple preclinical models, CYD-4-61 significantly inhibited tumor growth and improved the therapeutic response to anti-programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) therapy while modulating the tumor immune microenvironment. Clinically, co-expression of SOX9 and CDK4 was associated with diffuse-type GAC and poor patient outcomes. These findings identify the BAX-SOX9-CDK4 axis as an important mechanism contributing to the antitumor activity of CYD-4-61 and provide a strong preclinical rationale for its further development as a therapeutic strategy for aggressive GAC.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
To evaluate the effects of melatonin on chondrogenic and osteogenic differentiation, chondro-osteogenic transdifferentiation, and inflammatory responses in equine mesenchymal stem cells (eMSCs) in vitro.This in vitro experimental study was conducted from October 2023 through June 2024. The eMSCs were cultured under chondrogenic, osteogenic, and chondro-osteogenic transdifferentiation conditions with or without melatonin and exposed to proinflammatory cytokines (IL-1β and tumor necrosis factor-α [TNF-α]). Expression of chondrogenic and osteogenic markers was measured by quantitative reverse-transcription PCR. Concentrations of IL-1β, TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-8 in culture supernatants were quantified by multiplex immunoassay.In chondrogenic cultures, melatonin was associated with increased collagen type II (COLII) and sex-determining region Y-box transcription factor 9 (SOX9) expression and was associated with higher COLII-to-collagen type I (COLI) and SOX9-to-runt-related transcription factor 2 (RUNX2) ratios, consistent with preservation of chondrogenic phenotype. During chondro-osteogenic transdifferentiation, melatonin increased RUNX2 and ALP expression and decreased COLII:COLI and SOX9:RUNX2 ratios, suggesting promotion of an early osteogenic or hypertrophic shift. In contrast, in osteogenic cultures, melatonin decreased RUNX2, ALP, and COLI expression, indicating context-dependent effects on osteogenic differentiation. Across culture conditions, melatonin significantly reduced IL-1β, TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-8 concentrations in culture supernatants.Melatonin differentially modulated lineage behavior in eMSCs, preserving chondrogenic characteristics in some settings, promoting early osteogenic transition during transdifferentiation, and suppressing proinflammatory mediator production.These findings support further investigation of melatonin as a potential adjunct for modulating proinflammatory responses during equine cartilage repair and other inflammatory musculoskeletal disorders.
This study aimed to identify a candidate immune-related biomarker for lumbar disc herniation (LDH) and examine the functional relevance of ARG1 in intervertebral disc degeneration. Bioinformatics analysis was performed using the GSE146904 transcriptomic dataset to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and determine the core target. A puncture-induced rat disc degeneration model was then established, followed by in vivo ARG1 gain- and loss-of-function interventions. In vitro assays were used to evaluate the effects of ARG1 on chondrocyte biological behavior, extracellular matrix metabolism, inflammatory responses, and arginine metabolism. In addition, 57 patients with LDH and 68 healthy controls were retrospectively enrolled to assess the diagnostic value of serum ARG1. After multidimensional screening of the high-effect candidate DEGs, ARG1 was the only gene that met the prespecified immune-process, immune-pathway, and skeletal-system annotation criteria and was therefore prioritized for experimental validation. ARG1 was expressed at a low level in degenerated intervertebral disc tissues. ARG1 up-regulation attenuated puncture-induced disc injury and pain sensitization, promoted chondrocyte proliferation, inhibited apoptosis, increased SOX9 and COL2A1 expression, and reduced MMP13 and ADAMTS5 expression. Clinical testing showed that serum ARG1 levels were reduced in patients with LDH and were negatively correlated with Pfirrmann grade and VAS pain score. The area under the curve of serum ARG1 for distinguishing patients with LDH from healthy controls was 0.818. ARG1 was associated with attenuation of puncture-induced disc injury and early degenerative changes and may serve as a candidate auxiliary serum biomarker for LDH assessment and a potential target for future studies of immune-metabolic regulation.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
The precise etiology and molecular mechanisms underlying pterygium pathogenesis remain poorly understood, and the expression pattern of pluripotency-associated transcription factor SOX2 in human ocular surface has not been fully characterized. Therefore, we aimed to investigate the expression profile of SOX2 and its potential role in pterygium formation.We thoroughly investigated the expression of SOX2 in the cornea, limbus, healthy conjunctiva and pteyrigium by immunohistochemistry, immunocytochemistry and RT-PCR.We found that SOX2 is aberrantly expressed in different cellular layers of cornea, limbus and conjunctiva in human ocular surface tissues. Comparative analysis further revealed a sustained elevated SOX2 expression in the pterygium tissues compared with healthy conjunctiva. This increased SOX2 expression was accompanied by upregulation of Ki67 but not CK15.Our results suggest that SOX2 is expressed at varying levels in human ocular surface tissues. Also, we report, for the first time, that SOX2 may play a regulatory role in the development of pterygium by promoting cellular proliferation during the abnormal extension of conjunctival tissue onto the corneal surface.© The Author(s) 2026.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42564203 is a review article
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is heterogeneous, and hepatocyte plasticity is linked to poorer patient outcomes. A subset of human HCC harboring Tuberous Sclerosis Complex 1 (TSC1) mutations exhibits more aggressive behavior. TFEB is a master regulator of lysosomal biogenesis and cell fate. We analyzed human normal and HCC tissue arrays for TFEB and CK19 expression, as well as bulk and single-cell RNA-seq datasets from mouse and human HCC, to define TFEB-associated transcriptional programs. We performed biochemical, histological, metabolomic, and transcriptomic analyses in liver-specific Tsc1 knockout (L-Tsc1 KO) and L-Tsc1,Tfeb double KO (DKO) mice. Loss of hepatic Tsc1 led to increased phosphorylation of S6 and 4EBP1, with paradoxical increases in TFEB nuclear translocation and activation. L-Tsc1 KO mice showed increased hepatocyte plasticity, decreased HFN4α, increased YAP1 activation, and spontaneous HCC with increased SOX9 and CK19-positive biliary epithelial cell (BEC)-like cells at 8-12 months. Deletion of Tfeb dampened hepatic metabolic reprogramming and hepatocyte fate changes and inhibited tumor progression in L-Tsc1 KO mice. Increased TFEB activity was associated with increased YAP and SOX9 gene expression and high-grade malignant HCC in humans. These findings indicate that loss of hepatic TSC1 leads to non-canonical TFEB activation, promoting hepatocyte plasticity and tumor heterogeneity associated with high-grade malignancy in both mouse and human HCC. .
We evaluated the clinical significance of plasma autoantibodies against cancer stem cell-associated antigens in breast cancer, with diagnostic performance as the primary endpoint and clinicopathological and prognostic relevance as secondary endpoints.In this single-center observational study, autoantibodies against SOX2, survivin, and DNAJB8 were measured using ELISA. The diagnostic performance of anti-DNAJB8 autoantibodies was evaluated in 292 patients with breast cancer and 24 benign controls. Clinicopathological and postoperative analyses were exploratory in a preoperative cohort (175 patients).Only DNAJB8 showed a distinct high-titer subset in the breast cancer group. The primary endpoint was not met, as plasma anti-DNAJB8 autoantibodies showed a non-significant diagnostic performance (AUC, 0.602; 95% CI, 0.488-0.715; P = 0.080). In the preoperative cohort, with six deaths and 11 recurrences, anti-DNAJB8 autoantibody positivity was associated with a worse overall and recurrence-free survival in age-adjusted analyses using Firth's penalized likelihood Cox regression (overall survival: hazard ratio, 10.607; 95% CI, 2.280-61.840; P = 0.003; recurrence-free survival: hazard ratio, 4.329; 95% CI, 1.247-13.082; P = 0.023).The primary diagnostic endpoint was not achieved for plasma anti-DNAJB8 autoantibodies. However, anti-DNAJB8 autoantibody positivity was associated with poorer postoperative outcomes, suggesting a hypothesis-generating prognostic relevance.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd.
DLL4-NOTCH1 signaling mediates juxtacrine communication between tip- and stalk-like endothelial cells during vascular sprouting, contributing to complementary aspects of endothelial function. Thus, simultaneous modulation of DLL4 and NOTCH1 may provide a strategy to broadly interfere with the endothelial functions involved in tumor angiogenesis. Accordingly, this study aimed to identify a novel natural compound capable of modulating DLL4-NOTCH1-mediated endothelial communication and to investigate how such modulation influences tumor angiogenesis and growth.We screened 66 natural compounds to identify those that suppress DLL4 and NOTCH1 signaling in endothelial cells. Using a dual-reporter system that combines a DLL4 promoter-driven reporter and a CSL luciferase reporter, we simultaneously assessed ligand-associated activity and downstream transcriptional output of the DLL4-NOTCH1 axis. We confirmed VEGF-induced target gene expression via Western blotting and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. We further performed in vitro angiogenesis assays and in vivo Lewis lung carcinoma (LLC) allograft tumor experiments.Among the 66 screened natural compounds, para-coumaric acid (p-CA) dose-dependently suppressed DLL4 transcription and NOTCH1 signaling activity in endothelial cells, with IC50 values of 4.57 and 8.34 µm, respectively. Furthermore, p-CA significantly suppressed VEGF-induced endothelial cell proliferation, migration, and tube formation. In the LLC allograft model, p-CA treatment suppressed tumor growth and vascular density, increased pericyte coverage, reduced tumor hypoxia, and enhanced CD3+ T-cell infiltration and tumor cell apoptosis.In summary, p-CA is a natural compound that functionally suppresses VEGF-driven DLL4-NOTCH1 signaling in endothelial cells, exhibiting strong anti-angiogenic effects and promoting functional vascular normalization, resulting in marked tumor suppression and enhanced antitumor immunity in vivo. These findings suggest that p-CA warrants further investigation as an anti-angiogenic compound for cancer therapy.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Kashin-Beck disease (KBD) is an endemic osteochondropathy caused by T-2 toxin, however, the molecular mechanism underlying T-2 toxin-induced chondrocyte damage remains unclear. This study aimed to elucidate the pathogenic role of T-2 toxin in KBD and develop an EMF-augmented nanotherapy for KBD-related cartilage damage.This study investigated T-2 toxin-induced chondrocyte damage by evaluating protein acetylation, primary cilia integrity and the levels of chondrogenic markers (Sox9, Col2a1). In vitro experiments were performed via pharmacological and genetic SIRT3 inhibition. To protect chondrocytes, si-SIRT3@SPIONs were fabricated, and EMF was applied to improve cell transfection and silencing efficiency. A KBD model in SD rats was used to validate the in vivo therapeutic effect; immunohistochemical staining and micro-CT scanning and reconstruction were performed to comprehensively evaluate in vivo treatment efficacy.Pathological SIRT3 overexpression induced by T-2 toxin disrupted chondrocyte protein acetylation, impaired primary cilia integrity, and suppressed the gene expression of chondrogenic markers. SIRT3 inhibition efficiently protected T-2 toxin-induced chondrocyte cytotoxicity in vitro. Furthermore, EMF-augmented si-SIRT3@SPIONs treatment ameliorated cartilage damage, preserved matrix composition and restored normal chondrocyte phenotype in KBD model rats.T-2 toxin induces chondrocyte injury and promotes KBD progression mainly by disrupting primary cilia integrity and protein acetylation, with SIRT3 overexpression acting as a mediating factor. The EMF-augmented si-SIRT3@SPIONs therapy can effectively protect T-2 toxin-induced primary cilia damage and cartilage degeneration, thus providing a promising therapeutic modality for KBD.© The author(s).
Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a prevalent functional gastrointestinal disorder with an elusive pathophysiology. Although immune dysregulation and mild mucosal inflammation are recognized as important factors in IBS, the specific contribution of immunosenescence remains unclear. Prior MR studies on IBS focused on single molecular traits; however, an integrated multi-omics framework for aging-immune genes has not been applied. Here, we integrate cis-eQTL/pQTL/mQTL with machine learning and in vivo validation to identify putatively causal biomarkers and unravel the aging-immune axis.Aging- and immune-related genes were curated from published databases and analyzed using genome-wide cis-expression quantitative trait loci (cis-eQTL), cis-protein quantitative trait loci (cis-pQTL), and cis-methylation quantitative trait loci (cis-mQTL) datasets. All QTL data were derived from blood or plasma samples. Candidate genes were identified through integrative multi-omics analysis, followed by functional annotation, machine learning-based feature selection, immune infiltration profiling, and drug-target prediction. The expression of key biomarkers was validated using reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) in colonic tissues from a rat model of diarrhea-predominant IBS (IBS-D).Integrative multi-omics analysis initially identified 34 high-confidence candidate genes. Through multi-algorithm machine learning such as least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO), support vector machine recursive feature elimination (SVM-RFE), and random forest, these candidates were refined to a core panel of five biomarkers: the antioxidant enzyme catalase (CAT), acyl-CoA dehydrogenase very long chain (ACADVL), chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 4 (CCL4), cyclin E1 (CCNE1), and Jagged canonical Notch ligand 1 (JAG1). These biomarkers demonstrated strong diagnostic performance for CAT, CCNE1, and JAG1 in the validation cohort (AUC: 0.935-0.951), while ACADVL and CCL4 showed only moderate diagnostic potential (AUC: 0.645-0.649). The combined AUC range in the training cohort was 0.898-0.959. However, in the IBS-D rat model, only JAG1 was significantly upregulated in colonic tissue, whereas CAT, ACADVL, CCL4, and CCNE1 showed no significant changes. Among the five markers, only JAG1 was significantly upregulated in the IBS-D rat colon, confirming its local gut relevance. CAT and CCNE1 showed strong diagnostic performance (AUC >0.9), whereas ACADVL and CCL4 performed modestly (AUC <0.7). Given the blood-derived QTL data and colonic validation, cross-tissue heterogeneity is a key caveat: JAG1 is robustly validated in colon, while the remaining four markers-especially ACADVL and CCL4-require further evaluation in blood, PBMCs, or other relevant tissues. Functional enrichment analysis revealed their involvement in critical biological processes, including oxidative stress, fatty acid metabolism, immune cell recruitment, cell cycle progression, and epithelial-immune crosstalk via Notch signaling. Immune infiltration analysis uncovered a distinct immune landscape in IBS, with significant correlations between biomarker expression and immune cell populations. Notably, only JAG1 was significantly upregulated in the colonic tissues of the IBS-D rat model, confirming its relevance to gut pathophysiology. No significant changes were detected for CAT, ACADVL, CCL4, or CCNE1 in the same tissue samples, highlighting the tissue-specific nature of these candidate biomarkers. The SMR analysis demonstrated consistent causal directions between genetically predicted expression and disease risk for these five markers, with no discordance relative to their upregulation in IBS patients. All biomarker validation was performed at the transcriptomic level (RT-qPCR); no protein-level assays (e.g., Western blot, IHC, or ELISA) were conducted.This study delineates the genetic architecture linking aging and immunity to IBS through an integrative multi-omics and machine learning approach, providing novel putatively causal evidence and identifying JAG1 as a robustly validated biomarker with diagnostic and therapeutic potential. The remaining candidates warrant further investigation in appropriate biological contexts.Copyright © 2026 Yao, Li, Zhang, Li, Linghu, Li and Zhao.
Transcription factors (TFs) are key players in eukaryotic gene regulation, but the DNA binding specificity of many TFs remains unknown. Here, we assay 284 mostly uncharacterized putative human TFs using selective microfluidics-based ligand enrichment followed by sequencing (SMiLE-seq), revealing 74 new DNA binding motifs. To investigate whether TFs lacking detectable motifs preferably bind epigenetically modified DNA, we develop methylation-sensitive SMiLE-seq (meSMiLE-seq), a microfluidic assay that simultaneously probes binding to methylated and unmethylated DNA. Using meSMiLE-seq, we assay 114 TFs and identify DNA-binding models for 48 proteins, including known methylation-sensitive binding modes for POU5F1 and RFX5. 11 TFs prefer methylated DNA or display alternative methylation-dependent motifs (e.g. PRDM13), while 13 show aversion to methylated sequences (e.g. USF3). Finally, we identify ZHX2 as a putative Z-DNA binder. Altogether, our study significantly expands the human TF codebook, while providing a versatile platform to quantitatively assay the impact of DNA modifications on TF binding.© 2026. The Author(s).
Bisphenol A (BPA) exposure is associated with gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM); however, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain elusive. This study aimed to identify key genes mediating BPA exposure-related GDM through integrative bioinformatics analysis. We integrated BPA-related targets from multiple databases with GDM-associated genes derived from GeneCards and the GSE103552 dataset. Functional enrichment analysis was performed on the intersecting genes. A protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was constructed, and hub genes were identified using four topological algorithms. Machine learning approaches were employed for feature selection. Immune infiltration was assessed, and core gene expression was validated via reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), additional GEO datasets, and single-cell RNA sequencing data. Thirty-four overlapping genes were identified and found to be enriched in the insulin signaling pathway, the AMPK pathway, and inflammatory responses. Following further screening, five core genes-HSPA8, NR3C1, ITGB1, NOTCH2, and POU5F1-were selected, demonstrating robust diagnostic performance. Immune analysis revealed significant correlations between hub genes and the infiltration levels of immune cells. Consistent expression patterns of ITGB1 and NOTCH2 were validated across additional GEO datasets. RT-qPCR confirmed the downregulation of HSPA8 and the upregulation of NR3C1 and NOTCH2 in GDM. Single-cell analysis corroborated cell-type-specific expression within the placenta. This study elucidates potential molecular links between BPA exposure and GDM, highlighting immune-metabolic dysregulation. The identified core genes may serve as biomarkers or therapeutic targets, thereby advancing precision environmental health strategies for pregnancy.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Society for Reproductive Investigation.
Ischemic tissue perfusion remains a major clinical challenge despite VEGF's central role in angiogenesis. Limited success of VEGF-based therapies underscores the need to understand endothelial heterogeneity, as distinct subsets exhibit differential responsiveness. This study explores conserved endothelial states that govern VEGF-driven angiogenesis across human organs and evaluates their functional significance.We performed single-cell and single-nucleus RNA-sequencing (scRNA-seq/snRNA-seq) analysis of endothelial cells (ECs) from eight human tissues using GTEx data, validated findings in independent skin and heart datasets, and conducted CRISPR-mediated PLCγ2 knockout in cultured ECs followed by scRNA-seq.Analysis of 209,126 nuclei revealed a universal arterial-like endothelial subset (cluster 2) enriched across all organs, characterized by high expression of PLCγ2, a critical VEGF signaling effector. PLCγ2high cells exhibited robust angiogenic and lymphangiogenic programs, including upregulation of VEGFC, NOTCH4, and JAG1, and enrichment of pathways for vasculature development and endothelial differentiation. Cell-cell communication analysis demonstrated exclusive BMP6, IGF2, and CXCL12 signaling from PLCγ2high cells to fibroblasts, pericytes, and immune cells, positioning this subset as a central angiogenic hub. Functional validation showed that PLCγ2 knockout depleted PLCγ2high clusters, suppressed VEGF signaling, and diminished BMP6 ligand secretion, confirming its role in maintaining proangiogenic endothelial states.Ineffective targeting of the appropriate EC state may limit current therapeutic VEGF strategies, positioning PLCγ2high ECs as a clinically relevant target.We identify PLCγ2high arterial ECs as a conserved pan-organ population critical for VEGF responsiveness and vascular regeneration. These findings reimagine VEGF therapy by highlighting PLCγ2 as a critical regulator of a proangiogenic arterial-like endothelial state and a promising combinatorial target to overcome limitations of current angiogenic strategies.
The Jagged1 (JAG1) gene is essential for cardiac development, yet its tissue-specific transcriptional regulation remains poorly understood. In this study we used an integrative screening approach to identify 19 candidate enhancers within the ±100 kb region flanking the JAG1 locus, among which R7 exhibited the highest activity in dual-luciferase assays. CRISPR/Cas9-mediated deletion of R7 in AC16 cells significantly reduced JAG1 expression, decreased proliferative and migratory capacities, and increased apoptosis. Mechanistically, R7 deletion altered local chromatin contacts and reduced accessibility at CTCF-bound regions near the JAG1 promoter, accompanied by decreased H3K27ac, H3K4me3, RNA polymerase II, and SRF occupancy. These findings identify R7 as a cardiac-associated promoter-proximal regulatory element with enhancer-like activity that contributes to local chromatin organization and transcriptional activity at the JAG1 locus.© 2026 Zhuang et al.
Introduction Alagille syndrome (ALGS) is a rare autosomal dominant multisystem condition. This study focuses on the prenatal sonographic findings observed in cases confirmed to have ALGS through the molecular detection of JAG1 variants, either prenatally or postnatally. Methods This retrospective study enrolled thirteen cases of ALGS, diagnosed either prenatally or postnatally. Comprehensive medical records were systematically reviewed, with emphasis on pregnancy-related data, including serial fetal ultrasound examinations throughout gestation, molecular genetic test results, and pregnancy outcomes. Results Among the thirteen cases, ten demonstrated abnormal sonographic findings during the second trimester: unilateral multicystic dysplastic kidney (MCDK) in two (2/13), left MCDK with concomitant right renal agenesis in one (1/13), left MCDK associated with butterfly vertebrae in one (1/13), isolated butterfly vertebrae in three (3/13), non-visualized gallbladder in two (2/13), and supravalvular aortic stenosis with persistent left superior vena cava in one (1/13). The remaining three cases exhibited normal second-trimester ultrasound examinations but developed abnormal sonographic features in the third trimester: intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) was identified in two cases (2/13), and one case showed co-occurring pulmonary artery stenosis and butterfly vertebrae (1/13).Conclusion This study demonstrates that individuals with ALGS lack definitive prenatal ultrasound markers. When abnormalities are present, they are often subtle and nonspecific, which may not prompt clinicians to pursue genetic testing.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by S. Karger AG.
The RNA-binding protein NANOS2 plays a crucial role in male gonocyte development and the maintenance of spermatogonial stem cells. In the absence of the Nanos2 gene (Nanos2-KO), germ cells fail to enter G0 arrest and initiate the male differentiation program (including DNA methylation and the piRNA pathway), ultimately undergoing apoptosis before birth. Nanos2 transcription begins at embryonic day 12.5 (E12.5) and terminates at E15.5. However, as the NANOS2 protein continues to be stably expressed beyond E15.5, it is important to elucidate the function of NANOS2 during this post-E15.5 period in germ cell fate determination. To address the functional significance of sustained NANOS2 protein expression, we employed an auxin-inducible degron (AID2) system to achieve rapid degradation of NANOS2 after E15.5. Within 24 h of 5-Ph-IAA administration, NANOS2 protein was efficiently depleted. As a result, germ cells resumed the cell cycle, exhibited aberrant gene expression patterns similar to Nanos2-KO gonocytes, and underwent apoptosis if NANOS2 depletion occurred at E15.5 or E16.5. Although some surviving cells expressed undifferentiated spermatogonial markers PLZF and GFRA1 after birth, and entered meiotic division, most germ cells disappeared before completing meiosis. These findings reveal that sustained NANOS2 protein expression during the embryonic stage is essential for establishing functional spermatogonial stem cells, highlighting a previously unrecognized regulatory mechanism in male germ cell development.© 2026 The Author(s). Development, Growth & Differentiation published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Society of Developmental Biologists.
Highly conserved vertebrate molecular markers, such as Gfra1, Pou5f3, Notch1, Plzf, and Nanos2, represent important candidates for evaluating spermatogonial stem cells (SSCs) physiology and preferential location in the fish testis. In tilapia, germ cell cysts are distributed within seminiferous tubules oriented along the dorso-ventral axis, while the adult testis continues to grow along both the longitudinal (cranio-caudal) and dorso-ventral axes. Herein we investigated the spatial distribution of undifferentiated spermatogonia (Aund) expressing established SSC-associated markers in the testes of sexually mature Nile tilapia. Topographical analysis along the longitudinal axis showed that Aund were predominantly located in regions of the seminiferous tubules adjacent to the interstitial compartment, with approximately 53% of Aund in the caudal region and 18% in the cranial region of the testis. Accordingly, most Aund positive for Gfra1, Plzf, and Nanos2 (>70%; p<0.05) were preferentially detected in the caudal region. Analysis along the dorso-ventral axis showed that Aund positive for Plzf, Gfrα1, Nanos2, Nanos1, Notch1, and Notch3 were more frequently observed in areas closer to the tunica albuginea compared with regions adjacent to the efferent ducts. Together, these findings demonstrate pronounced regional differences in the distribution of Aund along both the cranio-caudal and dorso-ventral axes of the Nile tilapia testis, highlighting a spatially organized germinal architecture that may be relevant for the maintenance of the germinal epithelium and post-pubertal testicular growth. To our knowledge, this is the first study to systematically describe the spatial distribution of Aund-associated markers in a teleost species.Copyright © The Author(s).
Glioblastoma (GBM), the deadliest primary brain malignancy, resists treatment because of the blood‒brain barrier (BBB) and intrinsic resistance mechanisms. Fluorescein (FL), a clinically approved fluorophore, shows promise as a sonosensitizer for sonodynamic therapy (SDT), but faces challenges in tumor delivery and incomplete mechanistic understanding beyond ROS-mediated damage. We developed a bioinspired platelet-based delivery platform exploiting the natural tumor-homing properties of platelets for targeted FL delivery. Platelets were loaded with fluorescein diacetate (FDA), a lipophilic prodrug that is converted intracellularly to active FL, combined with probenecid to inhibit MRP1-mediated efflux, generating the ultrasound-responsive FL@plt. In vitro, FL demonstrated sonocytotoxicity; upon low-intensity ultrasound, FL@plt rapidly released FL into GBM cells, producing significant cytotoxicity enhanced by probenecid-mediated retention. In subcutaneous and orthotopic mouse models, intravenous FL@plt with probenecid and sequential ultrasound achieved extensive tumor FL accumulation, massive necrosis, significant growth inhibition, and prolonged survival. Mechanistically, FL-SDT induces DNA damage while promoting HIF-1α degradation via the ubiquitin‒proteasome and autophagy‒lysosome pathways, thus suppressing downstream DNA repair enzymes (SMUG1 and LIG4). This dual mechanism combines direct genotoxicity with impaired DNA repair capacity, underlying the potent anti-GBM efficacy. Our platelet-based FL delivery represents a practical, safe, translational therapy for overcoming BBB limitations by disabling HIF-1α-regulated DNA repair.
Balloon pulmonary angioplasty (BPA) improves haemodynamics and outcomes in patients with inoperable chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH). Riociguat is frequently initiated before BPA to reduce procedural risks. However, evidence supporting continuation after successful BPA is lacking and current guidelines provide no criteria for treatment discontinuation. Consequently, many patients remain on long-term riociguat despite uncertain benefit, potential adverse effects and high costs.STOP-RIO is a multicentre, open-label, randomised, non-inferiority (NI) trial conducted in the two Dutch CTEPH expert centres. Seventy-four adult CTEPH patients treated with riociguat monotherapy with a mean pulmonary artery pressure (mPAP) <30 mmHg post-BPA will be randomised (1:1) to stop or continue the medication. The primary endpoint is the between-group difference in baseline-adjusted mPAP at rest measured by right heart catheterisation at 16 weeks. NI will be tested for the primary endpoint and for the two secondary endpoints highest in hierarchy N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide and 6-min walk distance. Additional secondary endpoints include haemodynamic parameters, safety outcomes, patient-reported outcomes and healthcare use. The primary analysis will be performed in a per-protocol population with secondary intention-to-treat and exploratory analyses. A prospective health economic evaluation will be conducted from a societal perspective.The study is conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki and Good Clinical Practice and has received ethical approval. Written informed consent will be obtained from all participants. Results will be disseminated through peer-reviewed publication and shared with patient organisations and scientific congress.EU Clinical Trials Register: 2024-5 19 225-38-00.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY. Published by BMJ Group.
Criteria for arrhythmia classification in horses are insufficient, particularly when differentiating atrial premature complexes (APCs) from sinus arrhythmia (SA). This study investigated RR and PP interval changes between SA, APCs, and ventricular premature complexes (VPCs).30 resting ECGs were reviewed: 10 each containing SA, APC, and VPC. Sequences of 10 RR and PP intervals were recorded for each arrhythmia (20 events/ECG). Percent RR and PP deviations were calculated (1) between sequential intervals (%ΔSEQPP and %ΔSEQRR, respectively) and (2) compared to averaged baseline intervals 1 to 3 (%ΔAVGPP and %ΔAVGRR, respectively). Percent RR and PP deviations were compared between arrhythmias with 2-way ANOVA and receiver operator characteristic curve analysis.Cycle length variation differentiated SA from APCs and VPCs in the degree of prematurity and return cycle length by use of both RR and PP intervals. The %ΔAVGRR, %ΔSEQPP, and %ΔAVGPP performed better than %ΔSEQRR for differentiating SA from APCs in degree of prematurity, while return cycle length was differentiated clearly with all 4 methods. Using %ΔSEQPP, the degree of prematurity and return cycle length of APCs differed from both SA and VPCs. Using %ΔAVGRR and %ΔAVGPP removed the influence of the degree of prematurity on the return cycle length variation. Variability of the sinus cycle lengths (PP7 to 10) following VPCs and SA was noted.The addition of PP intervals to cycle length variation analyses provided additional discriminatory capacity, particularly between APCs and SA. Classification bias was a limitation.Evaluation of cycle length variation was a useful adjunct tool for resting ECG classification of SA, APCs, and VPCs.
We conducted a phase II study of fludarabine, thiotepa, reduced dose melphalan conditioning for allogeneic transplantation using alternate donors. Thirty-eight patients with hematological malignancies were enrolled. Conditioning included fludarabine 160 mg/m2, thiotepa 10 mg/kg (dose adjusted to 5 mg/kg for age >60 years) and melphalan 100 mg/m2. Sixteen patients (42%) received reduced intensity thiotepa (5 mg/kg). Twenty-one patients (55%) had acute myeloid leukemia, rest had acute lymphoblastic leukemia, myelodysplastic syndrome, myelofibrosis and relapsed high-risk lymphomas. Twenty-eight (74%) underwent haplo-identical transplants-rest received double cord blood grafts. With median follow up of 38 months, Day +100 marrow demonstrated morphologic complete remission in 34/38 evaluable patients. Progression-free survival at 1-, 2- and 3-year was 68%, 63% and 63%, respectively. Overall survival at 1-, 2- and 3-year was 76%, 71% and 64%, respectively. One-year non-relapse mortality was 21% and relapse rate was 11%. Twelve patients received post-transplant maintenance therapy. We conclude that fludarabine/thiotepa/low dose melphalan can induce durable long-term remissions in patients with advanced disease.
Heart rate variability biofeedback (HRV biofeedback) is a promising treatment for improving autonomic regulation and health outcomes. Although HRV biofeedback has demonstrated benefits in younger adults, its efficacy in older adult samples remains unclear. Given age-related declines in heart rate variability (HRV) and corresponding risk for heart disease, stress-related difficulties, and cognitive decline, HRV biofeedback could be an intervention to enhance HRV and improve emotional functioning, sleep, and cognitive performance in older adults. We conducted a randomized, sham-controlled trial wherein 53 healthy older adults were randomized to active HRV biofeedback treatment or sham. Participants completed a five-week HRV biofeedback intervention with assessments measuring HRV at rest, during stress recovery, along with measures of emotional functioning, sleep, and cognitive performance and completed pre- and post-testing along with a 5-week intervention. No significant differences were detected in resting HRV between groups. However, the HRV biofeedback group showed a significant increase in LF during recovery from an acute laboratory stressor (Paced Auditory Serial Addition Test), suggesting potential modulation of HRV during recovery, particularly in low frequency oscillatory ranges. Both HRV biofeedback and sham conditions reported improved sleep quality as well as improvements in HF, RMSSD, and SDNN HRV measures, but no significant differences were present for measures of emotional functioning or cognitive performance. High adherence rates in both conditions did not moderate HRV outcomes. Findings suggest HRV biofeedback may enhance aspects of HRV during stress recovery in older adults but there were not specific improvements in resting HRV, emotional health, or cognition.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
The aim is to provide an overview of our early experience in pediatric surgeon-directed management of abdominal trauma presenting to a University Hospital.Retrospective analysis of the data from all children presented with abdominal trauma (<14 years of age) who needed hospital admission and were listed on the trauma registry between May 2021 and May 2022.One hundred and twenty children, 88 (73.3%) males and 32 (26.7%) females, were identified. The median age was 6 years. Out of the 120 patients, 8 (6.66%) presented with penetrating abdominal injury and 112 (93.33%) presented with blunt abdominal injuries. The principal mechanism of blunt injury was road traffic accidents (RTAs) (44.6%). The most frequently affected abdominal organ was the spleen (33.8%). Twenty patients (16.6%) underwent surgery, and the rest (83.4%) were managed conservatively. The overall in-hospital mortality rate was 5%, with a median length of stay of 5 days. The highest mortality was among patients with bowel injury (66.7%).The patterns of injury in the pediatric trauma population are comparable to those in other African pediatric trauma centres. RTAs remain the most common cause of injury. Operative management is similar to international standards. Mortality is high compared to high-income countries and some low-medium income countries as well.Copyright: © 2026 Journal of Indian Association of Pediatric Surgeons.
Omental cysts are rare intra-abdominal lymphatic malformations in children, accounting for approximately 2% of all intra-abdominal lymphatic lesions. Their embryological origin remains uncertain, and preoperative diagnosis is often challenging due to their nonspecific clinical and radiological features. This study aims to present our institutional experience with omental cysts in children and review current literature on their presentation, evaluation, and management.A retrospective review was conducted in our department between 2015 and 2024. Medical records of children who underwent surgery for omental cysts were analyzed for demographic data, presentation, imaging findings, operative details, histopathology, and outcomes.Nine children (eight boys, one girl; median age 4 years) underwent omentectomy for omental cysts. Abdominal pain or distension were the most common presentations. Preoperative imaging was suggestive of omental origin in only one child, with others reported as mesenteric cysts or lymphatic malformations. The mean cyst diameter was 14 cm, with laparoscopy attempted in two children, while the rest underwent laparotomy. Histopathology confirmed benign lymphatic malformation in all patients. Postoperative recovery was uneventful, with no recurrence on follow-up for a minimum of 5 years.Omental cysts should be considered in the differential diagnosis of cystic abdominal lesions in children. Misdiagnosis as ascites or mesenteric cysts is common. Complete surgical excision through omentectomy remains the treatment of choice, offering excellent outcomes with minimal morbidity and negligible recurrence.Copyright: © 2026 Journal of Indian Association of Pediatric Surgeons.
The taxonomy of the Auriculariaceae (Auriculariales, Basidiomycota) is revised based on morphological data and four- and three-marker datasets, with special emphasis on the Exidia clade. We argue in favor of retaining Exidia as a large genus, encompassing most species previously relegated to it, with an addition of four effused (Exidiopsis-like) species. Phylogenetic data allow us to justify two segregates from Exidia s. lato, namely the reinstated Ulocolla (Exidia saccharina complex) and a newly erected genus Descidia, encompassing Exidia repanda and E. thuretiana. At large, morphological data corroborate this splitting. Exidiopsis effusa, the generic type of Exidiopsis, is typified and redescribed; together with a newly described E. perflua, it constitutes the genus Exidiopsis s. str. The rest of Exidiopsis s. lato species studied by us are redistributed among the redefined genera Adustochaete, Leiostroma, Proterochaete, and Ulocolla, as well as a newly introduced genus, Tegmenticium. Amphistereum is placed among the synonyms of Eichleriella and the single representative of Sclerotrema, Exidiopsis griseobrunnea, is moved into Ulocolla. In total, 52 species are properly redescribed or introduced below, of them twenty are new to science, and twenty new combinations are proposed. Additionally, we detected two single-species lineages: Pholiobasidion senex gen. nov. et sp. nov., from North America, which is recovered as the sister group to all other members of the Auriculariaceae sampled, and Scrupulispora perparvula gen. nov. et sp. nov., from Europe.Viacheslav Spirin, Vera Malysheva, Nathan Schoutteten, Anton Savchenko, Bernard Rivoire, Jan Olsson, Thomas Læssøe, Leif Ryvarden, Django Grootmyers, Matti Kulju, Josef Vlasák, María Victoria Vignale, Ilya Viner.
Antineutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibody (ANCA)-associated vasculitis (AAV) is a relatively uncommon autoimmune disease, predominantly causing kidney or lung injury. Pituitary dysfunction is exceedingly rare in microscopic polyangiitis (MPA). Rupture or hemorrhage of renal artery aneurysms is also scarcely reported in AAV, especially in MPA. In this study, we describe a 68-year-old woman who presented with shortness of breath at rest, polydipsia, and polyuria. In addition to an increased p-ANCA titer (1:10) and the presence of anti-myeloperoxidase antibodies, T1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging of the head revealed pituitary injury. A diagnosis of MPA accompanied by pulmonary intestinal disease, central diabetes insipidus, and hypophysitis was confirmed. The patient responded to intravenous methylprednisolone and immunoglobulin. However, 1 week after admission, she complained of a sudden onset of sharp pain in her right waist area, accompanied by weakness, nausea, syncope, and hypotension. The hemoglobin level decreased from 95 to 47 g/L and abdominal computed tomography revealed a large perirenal hematoma surrounding the right kidney. The patient was immediately administered methylprednisolone pulse therapy (500 mg/day for 3 days) and cyclophosphamide (CTX; 0.6 g), followed by fluid resuscitation, blood transfusion, hemostatic therapy, and infusion of fresh frozen plasma. Arterial angiography demonstrated active bleeding of the interlobular artery of the right kidney, and selective arterial embolization was performed. Fortunately, she responded well to glucocorticoid and CTX therapy and did not relapse during the 5-year follow-up. Pituitary involvement accompanied by spontaneous rupture of a renal aneurysm is an extremely rare complication of MPA and has not been reported before.Copyright 2026 Authors.
Continuous vital sign monitoring is critical but often labor-intensive. Fiberoptic technologies, like the SMART MAT, offer non-invasive assessment. Adapting this for a seated posture addresses clinical needs by promoting safe patient mobilization and reducing complications associated with prolonged bed rest.To validate the accuracy of the sitting SMART MAT for respiratory rate (RR), heart rate (HR), oxygen saturation (SpO2), and systolic and diastolic blood pressure (SBP/DBP) against established clinical reference standards.This cross-sectional study compared sitting SMART MAT readings with clinical reference measurements under stationary and mobile wheelchair conditions. Accuracy was assessed using Mean Absolute Error (MAE), Mean Absolute Percentage Error (MAPE), Bland-Altman Limits of Agreement (LoA), repeated-measures ANOVA, and effect size.Data from 130 participants were analyzed. HR readings demonstrated high accuracy (MAE = 3.67-4.81 bpm) with tight LoA. RR error was minimal (MAE = 2.85-2.86 breaths/min) statically but increased during motion (MAE = 5.03-5.21 breaths/min). SpO2 remained highly stable (MAE = 1.08-1.21%), well within standard clinical tolerance. SBP showed solid central accuracy (MAE = 6.48-7.51 mmHg) but wider LoA occasionally exceeded the ±5 mmHg threshold, functioning best as a continuous trend monitor. DBP variance was negligible (MAE = 4.65-5.46 mmHg).The current SMART MAT is a viable, integrated multimodal platform. HR, RR, and DBP are comparable to clinical reference standards, while SBP requires careful interpretation. By accommodating a functional sitting posture, the contactless system reduces immobility-related complications and demonstrates high feasibility for continuous, real-world monitoring.Copyright © 2026 Sim, Chan, Phang, Liem and Yeung.
Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) complicated by Pneumocystis pneumonia (PCP) is characterized by an insidious onset, rapid progression, and a critical clinical course. Severe complications, such as respiratory failure and pneumothorax, may occur in the absence of timely and effective intervention, resulting in increased mortality. Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) can serve as a salvage therapy by temporarily and effectively replacing cardiopulmonary function.We aimed to summarize the clinical experience of veno-venous extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (V-V ECMO) support in four patients with AIDS complicated by PCP.Clinical data from four patients with AIDS who were complicated by PCP and received ECMO support at Beijing Ditan Hospital, Capital Medical University, were retrospectively analyzed. The timing of ECMO initiation, mode selection, mechanical ventilation (MV) management, sedation and analgesia strategies, prognosis, and clinical experience were evaluated, and treatment experience was summarized.All four patients were definitively diagnosed with AIDS complicated by PCP and respiratory failure. All patients received ventilatory support and developed barotrauma. Pneumothorax occurred in cases 1, 2, and 4, whereas pneumomediastinum was detected in case 3. All patients received V-V ECMO support, which improved clinical conditions in all cases. Finally, cases 1 and 2 died, whereas cases 3 and 4 recovered and were discharged. Among them, awake ECMO was successfully implemented in case 3.For patients with AIDS complicated by PCP, particularly for those with concomitant barotrauma, early initiation of ECMO support may rapidly improve systemic oxygenation and lower the intensity of MV. This approach may decrease ventilator-induced lung injury (VILI), facilitate lung rest and lung protection, and provide a therapeutic window for treating the underlying disease. Clinicians should comprehensively evaluate disease reversibility, immune recovery potential, and the severity of lung injury. Withholding ECMO therapy solely due to HIV infection status should be avoided.Copyright © 2026 Sun, Hao, Liu, Zhong, Wang, Pu and Liu.
Defective small nuclear (sn)RNAs are produced from hundreds of human snRNA pseudogenes and mutant snRNA genes associated with human developmental disorders. Machineries that prevent defective snRNAs from disrupting pre-mRNA splicing remain poorly defined. Here, we identify multiple checkpoints in snRNA biogenesis monitored by quality control machineries that subject defective snRNAs to degradation and prevent their assembly into spliceosomes. We show that variant U1 snRNAs produced from human pseudogenes, some at rates approaching canonical snRNAs, are impaired in 3' cleavage and targeted for degradation by the NEXT-exosome while failures in subsequent protein assembly steps promote NEXT-exosome- or terminal uridylyl transferase 4/7-mediated degradation. These pathways also repress mutant snRNAs associated with human developmental disorders. Impeding snRNA quality control causes formation of aberrant spliceosomes and altered pre-mRNA splicing. These findings define checkpoints in snRNA biogenesis that safeguard pre-mRNA splicing and represent potential therapeutic targets for human disorders associated with snRNA mutations.© 2026 Ma et al.; Published by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42526972 is a review article
Eggshell quality is a critical trait in poultry production, as it directly influences economic outcomes. The genetic architecture underlying this trait remains poorly characterized. In this study, we conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) on Chinese Wenshang Barred chickens at 43 weeks of age to identify genomic loci and candidate genes associated with eggshell quality. This analysis revealed 87 significant SNPs and 14 candidate genes. Genes including MC2R, CDC73, LYSMD2, TNFAIP8L3, and CYP19A1 were associated with eggshell weight; PHEX, ATM, STXBP6, SLIT3, and RALY with eggshell thickness; and SOCS5 and ATG4C with eggshell strength. Notably, three SNPs emerged as the most promising markers for eggshell quality, though their functional roles in laying hens require further investigation. This study advances our understanding of the genetic basis of eggshell quality and holds significant practical implications for improving this trait through targeted breeding strategies.
Parathyroid carcinoma (PC) is an extremely rare endocrine malignancy with limited treatment options for unresectable or recurrent cases. With the increasing use of comprehensive genomic profiling (CGP), treatment based on genomic findings is becoming more common. However, the frequency and clinical significance of elevated tumor mutational burden (TMB) in PC remain unclear because previous studies have been limited by small sample sizes.We retrospectively analyzed genomic and clinical data of patients with PC registered in the Center for Cancer Genomics and Advanced Therapeutics database in Japan between June 2019 and March 2025. TMB values were obtained as reported by each CGP assay. TMB-H was defined as TMB ≥ 10 mut/Mb for descriptive analyses. We also assessed genomic alterations, microsatellite instability (MSI) status, and clinicogenomic characteristics.Twenty-five patients with PC were included. The median assay-reported TMB was 4.0 mut/Mb (range, 0-35). Seven tumors (28.0%) had assay-reported TMB values of ≥ 10 mut/Mb, including three (12.0%) with TMB ≥ 20 mut/Mb. The most frequently altered genes were CDC73 (40%), TP53 (32%), and MEN1 (24%). No co-alterations were observed between CDC73 and MEN1 or between CDC73 and TP53. One tumor was MSI-high and was included in the TMB-H group. POLE alterations were detected in three cases, including two tumors in the TMB-H group.This nationwide, real-world study demonstrated that a subset of PCs showed elevated assay-reported TMB values and genomic features potentially related to abnormalities in DNA replication or repair pathways. These findings support the clinical relevance of comprehensive genomic profiling in identifying the molecular heterogeneity and potential therapeutic opportunities for this rare malignancy.© 2026. The Author(s).
This report describes a rare case of recurrent hyperparathyroidism due to ectopic parathyroid hyperplasia in a 35-year-old woman with a CDC73 c.271C > T mutation. This case highlights the importance of multimodal imaging, intraoperative monitoring, and genetic evaluation in the management of recurrent primary hyperparathyroidism.
Parathyroid carcinoma (PC) is a rare but clinically aggressive endocrine malignancy with limited treatment options and a poorly defined tumor microenvironment (TME). To elucidate its cellular heterogeneity and spatial architecture, we integrated single-cell and spatial transcriptomic profiling with whole-exome sequencing and multiplex immunohistochemistry on eight parathyroid neoplasm specimens, including PC, parathyroid adenoma, and atypical parathyroid tumor. We identified a distinct progenitor-like endocrine subpopulation (Ca-1) enriched in CDC73-mutant PC, exhibiting stem-like properties, elevated cell cycle activity, and pronounced genomic instability. Spatial mapping revealed that Ca-1 cells preferentially localize at the leading edge, forming a fibroinflammatory niche characterized by the enrichment of inflammatory cancer-associated fibroblasts (iCAFs) and SPP1+ macrophages. Within this niche, the dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP4) is selectively expressed in Ca-1 cells and iCAFs, implicating a potential paracrine axis driving stromal remodeling and immunosuppression. These findings suggest that a spatially organized ecosystem may promote PC progression through TME remodeling and highlight the DPP4-CXCL2 axis as a candidate pathway for future investigation in aggressive parathyroid neoplasms.© the author(s).
Protein degradation systems have profound effects on signaling pathways and molecular networks that regulate organogenesis. Chaperone Mediated Autophagy (CMA) has been linked to neurodegenerative and neurodevelopmental diseases, however, its role in mammalian brain development remains poorly understood. Here, we identify a regulatory role of CMA pathway in neural stem cell (NSC) differentiation. We show that CMA is active in NSCs, while expression of LAMP2A, the principal limiting component of CMA, is associated with the induction of neurogenesis. Most importantly, overexpression and loss-of-function experiments of LAMP2A in NSCs suggest an inductive role of CMA in neuronal differentiation. Moreover, we demonstrate that LAMP2A is involved in NSC fate decisions by interfering with NOTCH1 signaling pathway. Our data support a model in which LAMP2A-dependent CMA contributes to neuronal fate acquisition through suppression of NOTCH1 signaling, and provide a mechanistic framework that may help explain the reported genetic involvement of LAMP2 gene and CMA in neurodevelopmental disorders.© 2026. The Author(s).
Parathyroid carcinoma (PC) is a rare malignancy accounting for <1% of primary hyperparathyroidism cases. This review summarizes current knowledge on its molecular pathogenesis, diagnosis, imaging, management and prognosis. PC is driven primarily by CDC73 mutations with loss of parafibromin expression, with emerging roles for PI3 K/AKT/mTOR and Wnt pathway alterations. Its diagnosis remains challenging. Clinical suspicion should arise with marked hypercalcemia, elevated PTH, palpable neck mass or recurrent laryngeal nerve palsy. Imaging modalities including cervical ultrasound, 99ᵐTc-sestamibi, 4D-CT, and [18F]fluorocholine PET/CT aid localization and metastasis detection. En bloc resection with ipsilateral thyroid lobectomy is the standard approach. Traditional medical therapies are helpful in reducing serum calcium level. Radiotherapy and chemotherapy have limited efficacy. Targeted therapies and immunotherapy show promise in advanced disease, however, the such evidence is weak. Recurrence rates of 23-65% mandate lifelong follow-up. Prognostic factors include surgical approach, postoperative remission, Ki-67 index, as well as parafibromin status and mTOR activation. Multidisciplinary management in specialized centers is critical for optimizing outcomes.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Endocrine Society. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com. See the journal About page for additional terms.
The human RNA polymerase II-associated factor 1 complex (PAF1c) functions in transcriptional elongation and mRNA maturation. PAF1c is composed of several subunits: PAF1, CDC73, LEO1, CTR9, RTF1, and SKIC8. Besides its role in transcription, PAF1c subunits have been reported to be associated with tumorigenesis through maintaining cancer genome stability. In this study, we show that depletion of PAF1c leads to a pronounced accumulation of R-loops, which in turn results in an increase in DNA damage. Moreover, we confirmed that PAF1c deficiency increases the cytotoxicity of several DNA-damaging agents, including hydroxyurea (HU), cisplatin (CDDP), methyl methanesulfonate (MMS), and bleomycin (BLM). Unexpectedly, PAF1c depletion confers tolerance specifically to topoisomerase inhibitors, such as camptothecin (CPT), etoposide (ETOP), and doxorubicin (DOX). Further investigation revealed that the resistance to topoisomerase inhibitors induced by PAF1c depletion occurred specifically in G1-but not S-phase cells. Mechanistically, PAF1c depletion paradoxically decreases CPT-induced accumulation of R-loops by impeding mRNA elongation in G1-phase cells, thereby reducing CPT-induced cell death. Collectively, our findings demonstrate that loss of PAF1c subunits not only promotes genomic instability through R-loop accumulation but also alters cellular responses to DNA-damaging agents, conferring resistance particularly to topoisomerase inhibitors. This study underscores the critical role of PAF1c in maintaining genome stability and provides a rationale for developing new therapeutic strategies in cancer treatment.© 2026 The Authors.
The Notch signaling pathway is essential for the self-renewal, differentiation, and maintenance of neural stem cells (NSCs). While genetic studies in Drosophila have implicated Strawberry Notch in Notch signaling, the role of its vertebrate homologue, Sbno1, in mammalian NSCs remains largely unexplored. Here we show that Sbno1 interacts with Rbpj, the central transcriptional mediator of Notch, as well as with the deubiquitinating enzyme Usp8. Promoter analyses revealed that Sbno1 and Usp8 synergistically enhance expression of Hes5, a well-known Notch target in NSCs. Using in utero electroporation to overexpress or knock out Usp8 in embryonic cortical NSCs, we demonstrate that Usp8 is essential for NSC maintenance whereas loss of Sbno1 leads to NSC depletion and premature neuronal differentiation. Mechanistically, our results suggest that Sbno1 facilitates Usp8-mediated stabilization of the Notch intracellular domain and resolves R-loops at the Hes5 promoter, thereby promoting target gene expression. Together, these findings identify Sbno1 and Usp8 as critical, previously unrecognized regulators of Notch signaling in NSCs and provide the first in vivo evidence of their physiological roles in mammalian cortical development.© 2026 Japanese Society of Developmental Biologists.
Disulfidptosis is a form of regulated cell death triggered by disulfide stress resulting from glucose starvation. The capacity to evade disulfidptosis is crucial for tumour cells to withstand glucose-limited environments. Here we demonstrate that OGDH, a rate-limiting enzyme in citric acid cycle, is critical for conferring resistance to disulfidptosis. High expression of HSPA9 in melanoma protects OGDH from glucose deprivation-induced oxidative inactivation, thereby ensuring OGDH-generated succinyl-CoA for METTL3 succinylation. Succinylated METTL3 recognizes m6A modification on NRF2 mRNA to license NRF2 translation, TrxR1 expression and subsequent evasion of disulfidptosis. Combined suppression of HSPA9 and glucose uptake inhibits melanoma growth in mouse models. In patients with melanoma, expressions of HSPA9 and OGDH negatively correlate with the disulfidptosis signature and are associated with an unfavourable clinical prognosis. Therefore, our findings not only highlight the dependence of melanoma cells on the HSPA9-OGDH-METTL3-NRF2 axis for disulfidptosis evasion, but also propose a combined intervention strategy for melanoma therapy.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Lactiplantibacillus plantarum (L. plantarum) is a well-characterized probiotic with a long history of safe application, exhibiting prominent potential in improving skeletal muscle function. As the most prevalent and plentiful mRNA modification in eukaryotes, extensive research has highlighted the non-negligible role of N6-methyladenosine (m6A) in regulating various aspects of skeletal muscle biology. However, the underlying mechanisms through which L. plantarum-derived signals regulate host myogenic programs, as well as whether m6A modification is involved in this process, remain unclear.To explore the microbe-host regulatory axis through which L. plantarum promotes skeletal muscle regeneration and whether m6A modification is involved in this process.The cardiotoxin-induced muscle injury mouse model was constructed to investigate the impact of L. plantarum WY2401 on skeletal muscle regeneration. Untargeted metabolomics analysis was used to screen out L. plantarum WY2401-derived key metabolite. The changes in m6A modification were determined using dot blot and MeRIP-qPCR.We identified L. plantarum WY2401 as a pro-myogenic probiotic that promotes skeletal muscle regeneration. Specifically, L. plantarum WY2401 strongly alters circulating metabolomic profiles, particularly elevating the production of microbiota-derived riboflavin. Upregulated riboflavin is transported to skeletal muscle through the bloodstream, where it modulates the expression of the m6A methyltransferase METTL3 in a stage-dependent manner during myogenesis. This modulation promotes myoblast proliferation by enhancing the stability of Cdk2 and Ccnd1 mRNAs through the METTL3-m6A-YTHDF1 pathway. It also facilitates myoblast differentiation by increasing Mef2a mRNA stability through the METTL3-m6A-YTHDF2 pathway.Our findings reveal a novel microbe-host regulatory axis through which L. plantarum WY2401 promotes skeletal muscle regeneration via stage-specific epigenetic modulation of myogenesis. This work highlights the potential of L. plantarum as a functional probiotic supplement for improving skeletal muscle development and provides new insights into probiotic-mediated regulation of muscle regeneration.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
N6-methyladenosine (m6A) methylation modification plays an essential role in cancer development. This study focused on the mechanism exploration of m6A methyltransferase 3 (METTL3) and its downstream target gene nuclear protein-1 (NUPR1) in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Detection of mRNA and protein was completed using real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction and Western blot. Cellular behaviors were evaluated by CCK-8, EdU, flow cytometry and transwell assay. Ferroptosis was analyzed via Fe2+ level and oxidative indicators. Methylated RNA immunoprecipitation (MeRIP) was performed for validating m6A modification. RIP and dual-luciferase reporter assay were used to confirm METTL3 and NUPR1 combination. Animal research was implemented for METTL3 and NUPR1 analysis in vivo. METTL3 was overexpressed in HCC. METTL3 silencing suppressed HCC cell proliferation and invasion, while enhancing apoptosis and partially inducing ferroptosis. METTL3 downregulation reduced NUPR1 level. METTL3 induced m6A modification of NUPR1 in an IGF2BP2-dependent manner. Tumor-inhibitory effects of METTL3 knockdown were counteracted by NUPR1 overexpression. METTL3 promoted HCC tumor growth and suppressed ferroptosis in vivo by regulating NUPR1. These findings suggested that METTL3 facilitated cell invasion and partially inhibited ferroptosis through catalyzing m6A methylation modification of NUPR1, validating the specific regulatory axis METTL3/NUPR1 in HCC progression.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Pancreatic acinar cell carcinoma (ACC) is a rare and aggressive malignancy whose molecular basis remains poorly understood. N6-methyladenosine (m⁶A) RNA modification, mediated particularly through methyltransferase 3 (METTL3), has emerged as a critical regulator in various cancers. Here, we investigated the role of METTL3-mediated RNA methylation in ACC development and progression. We used transgenic mouse models overexpressing Mettl3 and SV40 large T antigen under the pancreatic elastase I promoter. Comprehensive analyses included m⁶A-methylated RNA immunoprecipitation sequencing (MeRIP-seq), single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), functional studies using the METTL3 inhibitor STM2457, and S-adenosylmethionine (SAM)-binding domain deletion mutants to assess functional requirements. Mettl3 overexpression significantly accelerated ACC development and increased tumor aggressiveness. The SAM-binding domain was essential for tumor formation, as deletion mutants failed to promote carcinogenesis. MeRIP-seq revealed preferential methylation of cell cycle and DNA replication genes in Mettl3-overexpressing tumors. scRNA-seq analysis demonstrated enhanced malignancy signatures, including epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition and transforming growth factor-β signaling. METTL3 also promoted PRSS1-mediated signaling from ACC cells to inflammatory cancer-associated fibroblasts, creating a feed-forward loop involving IGF1 that amplifies tumor growth. Conditional Mettl3 deletion induced rapid tumor apoptosis. Pharmacological inhibition with STM2457 similarly triggered caspase-3/7-dependent apoptosis in pancreatic tumors. METTL3-mediated RNA methylation drives ACC pathogenesis through tumor-intrinsic cell cycle regulation and tumor-extrinsic stromal interactions. These findings establish METTL3 as a promising therapeutic target and provide mechanistic insights supporting the clinical development of METTL3 inhibitors for ACC treatment.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42559138 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42554848 is a review article
Chronic stress contributes to hippocampal neuronal apoptosis and neural circuit dysfunction in major depressive disorder (MDD), but the epitranscriptomic mechanisms regulating stress-responsive microRNAs remain unclear. This study investigated whether methyltransferase-like 3 (METTL3)-mediated N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification promotes miR-140-3p maturation and neuronal apoptosis through the OTX2/Wnt/β-catenin axis under chronic stress.A chronic unpredictable mild stress rat model and a corticosterone-induced primary hippocampal neuron injury model were established. Behavioral assays, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) staining, flow cytometry, western blotting, qRT-PCR, proteomic and transcriptomic analyses, methylated RNA immunoprecipitation (MeRIP), DiGeorge syndrome critical region gene 8 (DGCR8) RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP), and dual-luciferase reporter assays were performed. Serum miR-140-3p expression was also assessed in patients with MDD and healthy controls. miR-140-3p was upregulated in the hippocampus of stressed rats and in the serum of patients with MDD. Hippocampal miR-140-3p knockdown alleviated depressive-like behaviors and reduced neuronal apoptosis, whereas miR-140-3p inhibition protected primary hippocampal neurons from corticosterone-induced apoptosis. Mechanistically, chronic stress increased METTL3 expression and global m6A levels. METTL3 enhanced m6A modification of pri-miR-140-3p, promoted DGCR8-dependent processing, and increased mature miR-140-3p expression. miR-140-3p directly targeted OTX2 and modulated Wnt/β-catenin signaling, while OTX2 silencing attenuated the antiapoptotic effect of miR-140-3p inhibition.METTL3-dependent m6A maturation of miR-140-3p may contribute to stress-induced hippocampal neuronal apoptosis through the OTX2/Wnt/β-catenin axis, providing potential molecular targets for further investigation in MDD.© 2026. The Author(s).
N6-methyladenosine (m6A) RNA modification plays critical roles in physiological and pathological processes. Our prior study demonstrated that IGFBP5 expression is upregulated in the ischemic limb, whereas endothelial-specific IGFBP5 knockout (Igfbp5EKO) protects against hind limb ischemia by enhancing angiogenesis. Here, we show that IGFBP5 deficiency elevates global m6A levels and upregulates the expression of m6A methyltransferase complex components METTL3, METTL14 and WTAP in endothelial cells. We further identified a direct interaction between IGFBP5 and the MT-A70 domain of METTL14. Knockdown of METTL14, METTL3 or WTAP attenuated the pro-angiogenic effects of IGFBP5 deficiency in vitro. In vivo, endothelial knockdown of METTL14 abolished the improved hind-limb ischemia recovery in Igfbp5EKO mice. Methylated RNA immunoprecipitation sequencing revealed that IGFBP5 depletion in endothelial cells increases both m6A modification and mRNA abundance of FGF16. Notably, METTL14 or METTL3 silencing suppressed IGFBP5-dependent FGF16 upregulation. Enhanced translational efficiency of FGF16 in IGFBP5-deficient cells was reversed by METTL14 knockdown, indicating that IGFBP5 regulates FGF16 translation via m6A modification. Mechanistically, IGFBP5 modulates FGF16 m6A modification via interaction with the m6A reader protein IGF2BP2, targeting the m6A site at position 255 of FGF16 mRNA. In summary, our study establishes METTL14-mediated m6A modification of FGF16 as a key mechanism underlying IGFBP5-driven angiogenesis. Targeting the IGFBP5-METTL14-m6A-FGF16 axis may offer novel therapeutic strategies for ischemic disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
A vital question in transcription regulation is how and to what extent transcription of different DNA species, including viral DNA, episomal DNA and endogenous retroelements, is differentially regulated to transcription of host genes. RPRD2 has previously been characterized as an HIV restriction factor that blocks reverse transcription. However, RPRD2 has also been characterized as a regulator of global transcription of host genes. Therefore, we hypothesized that RPRD2 may also regulate nascent transcription from HIV provirus and endogenous retroelements. First, we used a combination of experimental and computational methods to characterize the binding of RPRD2 to RNA and DNA:RNA hybrids. Using immunoprecipitation, we identified that RPRD2 interacts with both the transcription regulator PAF1 and the HUSH complex member TASOR, independently. Immunofluorescence revealed that GFP-RPRD2 localizes to foci in the nucleus, and these foci overlap with nuclear speckles. To measure the effect of RPRD2 on transcription, we used plasmid-borne HIV LTR-driven reporter constructs and observed that RPRD2 depletion increased transcription of constructs both with and without an intron. We next investigated transcription from integrated proviruses and found no effect of RPRD2 depletion using several different systems. Lastly, we measured transcription of endogenous retroelements and found that RPRD2 depletion did not affect transcription of LINE-1 or HERV-K. Finally, we investigated whether RPRD2 regulates production of IFN in response to nucleic acid species or affects transcription of IFN-stimulated genes. We found that depletion of RPRD2 had no effect on IFN production or ISG expression. Together, our findings demonstrate how regulation of transcription is not universal for host genes, integrated provirus, unintegrated plasmid and endogenous retroviruses, and confirmed that although RPRD2 governs cellular transcription, it does not regulate transcription of HIV-1 provirus or of endogenous retroelements.
Fragile X syndrome (FXS), the leading genetic cause of intellectual disability, arises from FMR1 gene silencing and the subsequent loss of the RNA-binding protein FMRP. N6-methyladenosine (m6A) is a prevalent mRNA modification essential for post-transcriptional regulation. FMRP binds and regulates the stability of m6A-containing transcripts. However, how FMRP deficiency impacts transcriptome-wide m6A modifications in FXS remains unknown. To address this, we generated cortical neurons from induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) derived from healthy individuals and FXS patients. Electrophysiology recordings revealed synaptic and neuronal network defects in FXS iPSC-derived neurons. Transcriptome-wide analysis revealed striking m6A hypermethylation predominantly affecting synapse-associated transcripts. Mechanistically, we demonstrated that FMRP deficiency drives the aberrant translational upregulation of core m6A writers, a causal relationship definitively validated using CGG-corrected isogenic control lines. Targeted genetic knockdown of the m6A writer METTL3 successfully rescued synaptic phenotypes in FXS neurons, whereas its overexpression in control neurons phenocopied these synaptic defects, confirming the causal role of m6A dysregulation in FXS pathology. Notably, pharmacological intervention with the METTL3 inhibitor STM-2457 normalized methylation on synapse-associated transcripts and restored synaptic transmission in FXS neurons. Together, our findings uncover an FMRP-dependent epitranscriptomic mechanism contributing to FXS pathogenesis and suggest a promising avenue for m6A-targeted therapies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Circadian clocks underlie daily rhythms in physiology by coordinating temporal patterns of gene expression and protein function throughout the body. At the core of this system in mammals is CLOCK/BMAL1, a ubiquitously expressed heterodimeric transcription factor complex that orchestrates tissue-specific circadian gene expression. The basis for this specificity remains unclear, but tissue-specific interactions at chromatin could provide one. Here we used chromatin immunoprecipitation coupled to mass spectrometry to map CLOCK/BMAL1-associated protein complexes on chromatin in mouse liver, kidney and lung. We detected 1,510 associated proteins, most of which were tissue-specific and not explained by protein abundance. Among these, we identified the homeodomain transcription factors PROX1, HNF1B and HOXA5 as tissue-enriched interactors that bind BMAL1, co-occupy most BMAL1 genomic sites and establish organ-restricted circadian transcription. Our findings demonstrate that tissue-specific transcription factors confer cellular identity on the core clock, thereby contributing to organ-specific patterns of rhythmic gene expression.© 2026. The Author(s).
Mitochondrial dysfunction and abnormal energy metabolism are important pathological features of Alzheimer's disease (AD). This study investigates how mitochondrial protease YME1L1 affects mitochondrial function and its upstream regulation in the pathogenesis of AD. The AD model was established by using APP/PS1 transgenic mice, primary neurons treated with Aβ1-42, and HT22 cells. The silencing of YME1L1 was achieved to evaluate its effects on mitochondrial function and OPA1 protein hydrolysis. RIP-qPCR and RNA pull-down test were used to evaluate the interaction between HNRNPC and YME1L1 mRNA. The protein succinylation level was detected by proteomic analysis of succinylation, and co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) was used to verify the succinylation of HNRNPC. Cognitive ability was tested by behavioral tests, including the Morris water maze, Y-maze, object recognition test, and olfactory test. Finally, the therapeutic potential of SIRT5 was studied by an overexpression experiment in an AD model. YME1L1 was significantly upregulated in the AD model, which promoted mitochondrial dysfunction and neuronal damage through OPA1 hydrolysis. HNRNPC enhances the stability of YME1L1 mRNA through an m6A-dependent mechanism, while its own K50 succinylation enhances the stability of HNRNPC by competitively inhibiting TRIM25-mediated ubiquitination, further amplifying the expression of YME1L1. SIRT5 downregulation in AD elevated HNRNPC succinylation levels. SIRT5 overexpression promoted HNRNPC desuccinylation, reduced YME1L1 expression, restored mitochondrial function, and ameliorated Aβ deposition and cognitive deficits in AD mice. The SIRT5-HNRNPC-YME1L1 axis contributes to AD pathogenesis by disrupting OPA1 proteolysis and mitochondrial dynamics. Targeting HNRNPC succinylation represents a promising therapeutic strategy for AD.© 2026 The Author(s). Aging Cell published by the Anatomical Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Gastric cancer remains a major global health burden, ranking fifth worldwide in both incidence and mortality. While Helicobacter pylori is a well-established Group I carcinogen, increasing evidence suggests that non-H. pylori bacteria, including Streptococcus anginosus, may also contribute to gastric carcinogenesis. However, their comparative pathogenic roles and interactions remain poorly defined. In this study, public databases showed stage-dependent abundance changes of H. pylori and S. anginosus but no significant correlation during gastric cancer progression. We further quantified both bacteria in gastric fluid samples collected from 500 individuals using a non-invasive gastric string test and in fecal samples from an independent cohort of 500 individuals by qPCR. In the two cohorts, no significant correlations were observed between the two bacterial pathogens, suggesting distinct colonization and pathogenic patterns. To evaluate functional differences, AGS cell co-culture models were established to explore their pro-tumorigenic effects. H. pylori predominantly exerted tumor-promoting effects through bacterial cell-associated mechanisms, whereas S. anginosus exerted stronger pro-tumorigenic effects via its metabolites. In particular, transcriptomic analysis revealed that proliferation-associated genes, including DEK and RTF1, were significantly upregulated by 21.9-fold and 19.2-fold, respectively, in cells treated with Streptococcus anginosus metabolite (SAM). Metabolomic profiling of SAM identified increased levels of spermidine and polyamine-related metabolites. Among these, N-acetylcadaverine, N-acetyltyrosine, N-acetyltryptophan, and urocanic acid were experimentally validated to significantly promote AGS cell proliferation. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that H. pylori and S. anginosus drive gastric tumorigenesis through contact-dependent and metabolite-mediated mechanisms, respectively, highlighting bacterial metabolites as emerging contributors to gastric cancer progression.IMPORTANCEThe gastric microbiota plays a critical role in gastrointestinal health and disease. However, the ecological interactions between Helicobacter pylori and non-H. pylori bacteria remain poorly understood. Among established bacterial pathogens linked to gastric carcinogenesis, H. pylori and Streptococcus anginosus are recognized as major contributors. In this study, we systematically evaluated infection patterns and potential associations between these two pathogens using public metagenomic data sets and qPCR analysis of clinical samples (feces and gastric fluid) from multicenter cohorts. We found no significant association between their infection statuses (P > 0.05), indicating independent colonization patterns and likely differences in their pathogenic mechanisms within the human host. Complementary in vitro and cellular analyses further showed that H. pylori primarily acts through direct mucosal colonization and virulence factors, whereas S. anginosus influences host responses mainly via its metabolic products. These findings demonstrate that H. pylori and S. anginosus operate through distinct colonization strategies and pathogenic pathways. They underscore the importance of accounting for mechanistic heterogeneity in gastric microbiome research and provide a conceptual framework for future investigations into microbe-driven pathogenesis of gastric disease.
Secondary lymphedema, characterized by localized tissue swelling caused by lymphatic damage or dysfunction, remains a major clinical challenge that compromises quality of life. Current physical therapies provide only temporary relief, underscoring the need for effective regenerative strategies. Here, we report the fabrication of a micropatterned, small-diameter fibrous artificial lymphatic vessel incorporating hyaluronic acid (HA) via electrospinning to enhance lymphatic fluid transport. The engineered scaffold exhibits optimized mechanical properties and elicits favorable cellular responses through HA-mediated biochemical cues. Lymphatic endothelial cells (LEC) cultured on the scaffold show increased expression of lymphangiogenesis-related markers, including Prox1 and LYVE-1, accompanied by AKT activation and increased VEGF-C/VEGFR3-associated marker expression. The topographical features of the scaffold were also associated with altered YAP localization and increased lymphatic endothelial marker expression. In vivo implantation of the scaffold in a rat lymphedema model reduced ankle swelling and lymphatic retention across the surgically disrupted region toward an anatomically preserved drainage basin. Collectively, these findings suggest that HA-integrated fibrous lymphatic scaffolds represent a promising strategy for lymphedema treatment by synergistically engaging biochemical and biomechanical pathways associated with lymphatic repair and functional fluid transport.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Lacteal motion can be visualized in vivo, but quantitative analysis remains difficult because intravital intestinal imaging is affected by motion, focal instability, and baseline fluorescence variability.We developed an intravital imaging workflow for quantitative analysis of lacteal contractility in Prox1-EGFP rats. Lacteals were segmented by region-of-interest analysis, and fluorescence signals were extracted frame by frame. Signals were normalized as percent deviation from mean clip intensity. Contractility was assessed from normalized traces, with acetylcholine used as a positive control. Matched 30 and 10 s analysis windows were compared.Mean-normalized signals provided a more comparable readout than raw intensity across clips acquired under variable intravital conditions. The workflow detected the expected increase in lacteal contractile behavior after acetylcholine in paired experiments and resolved progressive augmentation in a serial time-course experiment. Compared with 10 s analysis, 30 s recordings yielded a more coherent and interpretable amplitude-based readout.This study establishes a practical intravital workflow for quantifying lacteal contractility in vivo and defines key analytical considerations for live intestinal imaging, including normalization strategy, window selection, and image-quality control.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2 (VEGFR2) is a key target for regulating the endothelial cell lineage and angiogenesis. It is also expressed by lymphatic endothelial cells (LECs) while its participation in lymphangiogenesis remains inadequately characterized. We demonstrate in this study that VEGFR2 is highly expressed in dermal initial lymphatic vessels and valves. The induced deletion of pan-endothelial Vegfr2 at the neonatal stage produced a potent suppression of dermal lymphatic growth, characterized by a thinner lymphatic diameter, a decreased number of LECs and lymphatic valves. Mechanistically, VEGFR2 insufficiency led to a dramatic decrease in lymphatic VEGFR3, a key regulator mediating signals for lymphatic growth and remodeling. RNA sequencing analysis revealed that GO terms enriched for downregulated genes included biological processes related to EC development while pathways related to hematopoiesis and immune responses were upregulated in the skin of Vegfr2 mutants compared with littermate controls. This was further confirmed by RNA-seq analysis of dermal tissues 48 h after endothelial Vegfr2 deletion. Consistently, targeting Vegfr2 in PROX1+ cells produced an inhibitory effect on dermal lymphatic growth and recapitulated a similar altered transcriptomic signature. The alteration of lymphatic gene expression was further validated by siRNA-mediated Vegfr2 knockdown in primary LECs, showing a transcriptional trend toward a hematopoietic fate. Findings from this study imply that VEGFR2 is required for the maintenance of endothelial identity, and its insufficiency triggers a transcriptional reprogramming that diminishes VEGFR3-mediated lymphangiogenesis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Bladder cancer is a common and aggressive disease with limited treatment options, highlighting the urgent need for new therapeutic strategies. Although mitochondrial proteins have been implicated in cancer progression, their role in bladder cancer remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the function of the mitochondrial protease YME1L1 and its regulation by the E3 ubiquitin ligase TRIM21. By analyzing patient tissue samples, single-cell RNA data and performing experiments manipulating YME1L1 and TRIM21 levels in bladder cancer cells, we found that YME1L1 promotes cancer cell proliferation, invasion and mitochondrial energy production. Mechanistically, TRIM21 interacts with YME1L1 through its SPRY domain, facilitating K63-linked polyubiquitination of YME1L1 and accelerating its degradation. Furthermore, the K237 residue of YME1L1 is critical for TRIM21-mediated ubiquitination. These findings suggest that targeting the TRIM21-YME1L1 pathway could offer a novel strategy to inhibit bladder cancer progression.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Thyrotropin-releasing hormone receptor 1 (TRHR1, encoded by Trhr, also referred to as Trhr1 in rodents) is a key component of the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis and has also been implicated in emotion, cognition, and stress-related regulation. However, the brain-wide distribution and cellular characteristics of Trhr1 reporter-labeled cells in the central nervous system remain incompletely understood. In this study, we generated Trhr-P2A-iCre; R26-tdTomato mice to genetically label Trhr1 reporter-labeled cells and combined this strategy with tissue clearing and volumetric imaging with synchronized on-the-fly scan and readout (VISoR) to construct a high-resolution brain-wide map. Quantitative analysis revealed that Trhr1 reporter-labeled cells were broadly distributed throughout the adult mouse brain, with marked regional heterogeneity. Higher densities were observed in the olfactory bulb, prefrontal cortex, striatum, hypothalamus, and amygdala, whereas lower densities were found in the hippocampus, thalamus, midbrain/brainstem, and cerebellum. Further immunofluorescence analysis indicated that Trhr1 reporter-labeled cells were predominantly neuronal in the examined regions, showing frequent co-localization with NeuN but not with Iba1 or GFAP. Many tdTomato-positive cells in selected cortical, amygdalar, and striatal regions co-localized with CaMKII, whereas overlap with PV or SST was limited; in the dentate gyrus, many co-localized with Prox1, indicating a granule-cell identity. Together, these findings provide a brain-wide anatomical map and region-specific cellular profile of Trhr1 reporter-labeled cells and establish a structural foundation for future studies of TRHR1-related neural circuits and functions.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
To identify, map, and characterize a posterior ocular lymphatic outflow (POLO) pathway from the suprachoroidal space and assess its drainage dynamics and cervical nodal uptake using time-resolved imaging.Albumin-based tracers (galbumin and CF770/BSA) were delivered into the suprachoroidal space of adult mice under general anesthesia. In vivo imaging included magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and near-infrared fluorescence imaging using confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscopy (cSLO) of the ocular surface and orbital soft tissues. Ex vivo assessments included in situ head and neck fluorescence imaging 20 minutes after tracer injection and hyperspectral microscopy of ocular and orbital sections. Lymphatic identity was assessed by immunofluorescence staining (podoplanin and vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-3 [VEGFR-3]) in Prox1-tdTomato reporter mice.Following suprachoroidal tracer injection, in vivo MRI and cSLO fluorescence imaging showed preferential drainage toward the nasal orbit. Hyperspectral microscopy showed higher tracer signal in the ipsilateral sclera and orbit than contralateral tissues, and in situ fluorescence imaging detected near-infrared tracer in the ipsilateral cervical lymph node at 20 minutes. Confocal microscopy of the choroid showed co-localization of podoplanin with VEGFR-3 and Prox1 and demonstrated tracer within podoplanin-positive choroidal lymphatic vessels, consistent with a posterior drainage route from the suprachoroidal space to cervical lymph nodes.This study identifies a previously unrecognized POLO pathway and expands ocular drainage physiology beyond the anterior segment to include a posterior lymphatic route through choroidal lymphatic vessels.Identification of a POLO pathway reveals a measurable route for fluid clearance, intraocular pressure regulation, and drug delivery, offering new strategies to preserve vision in retinal and posterior segment diseases characterized by fluid accumulation, impaired clearance, or inflammation.
Non-obstructive azoospermia (NOA) is a severe male-infertility phenotype characterized by intrinsic testicular failure and impaired spermatogenesis. This study compared retinoic acid (RA)- and transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1)-preconditioned human bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (hBM-MSCs) in a busulfan-induced mouse model of testicular injury. hBM-MSCs were characterized by plastic adherence, spindle-shaped morphology, immunophenotyping, and adipogenic/osteogenic differentiation, then preconditioned with RA (2, 5, or 10 µM) or TGF-β1 (5, 10, or 20 ng/mL) for 21 days. Busulfan-treated BALB/c mice were assigned to eight groups (n = 5/group), and preconditioned cells were transplanted four weeks after injury. Histology, modified Johnsen score, spermatogenic indices, seminiferous morphometry, testicular cell counts, epididymal sperm parameters, human-specific Alu-qPCR, and C-Kit, DAZL, OCT4, Tex18, Piwil2, and Mvh transcript expression were evaluated eight weeks after transplantation. Busulfan induced tubular atrophy, germ-cell depletion, impaired sperm-related endpoints, and downregulation of spermatogenesis-associated transcripts. Both preconditioned hBM-MSC products partially attenuated these abnormalities compared with busulfan-only injury. RA-preconditioned hBM-MSCs, particularly at 10 µM, showed the strongest pro-spermatogenic profile, whereas TGF-β1-preconditioned hBM-MSCs showed a comparatively niche-oriented epithelial and luminal recovery pattern. Human Alu-qPCR indicated donor-derived DNA persistence within testes but not viable donor-cell integration or donor-derived spermatogenesis. Because a naïve, non-preconditioned hBM-MSC group was not included, whether unprimed hBM-MSCs would produce similar, lesser, or different effects remains unknown. These findings define distinct reparative profiles, not validated molecular pathways or proven fertility restoration.© 2026. The Author(s).
Achaete-scute homolog 2 (ASCL2), as a transcription factor, is overexpressed in various tumors and considered to be associated with malignant progression and poor prognosis of tumors. However, whether ASCL2 affects head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) progression has not been studied. We reported that ASCL2 was up-regulated in HNSCC tumor tissues compared to normal tissues, and that this increase was associated with adverse clinical outcomes. Cell-based characteristics revealed the pro-oncogenic effect of ASCL2 overexpression in cell proliferation, colony formation, sphere growth and migration/invasion through facilitating epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Knocking down ASCL2 resulted in growth arrest of HNSCC cells and the inhibition of malignant behaviors. The xenograft tumor model of ASCL2-expressing cells was larger, more prone to lymph node metastasis (LNM), and exhibited more significant characteristics of cancer stem cells (CSCs) (upregulated CD44, OCT4, and NANOG and increased stem cell frequency). Analysis between mRNA-seq and ChIP-seq showed that ASCL2 regulated the function of SNF2 histone-linker PHD-finger RING-finger helicase (SHPRH). SHPRH was inhibited in ASCL2-expressed HNSCC cells. Mechanistically, ASCL2 suppressed the transcriptional activity of SHPRH, subsequently leading to a weakened ability of SHPRH in inhibiting the proliferation, migration, invasion. Overexpressing SHPRH in ASCL2-expressed HNSCC cells alleviated the malignant behavior of tumor cells. In conclusion, our research revealed that ASCL2 promoted the proliferation, EMT and CSC characteristics of HNSCC cells by transcriptionally inhibiting the expression of SHPRH. Targeting this process might be a promising approach for HNSCC therapy.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Stem cell based approaches are increasingly studied as models for understanding neurodegenerative diseases. Despite progress, a unified mechanistic understanding of human iPSCs to neural commitment remains incomplete, due to variability in methodologies and experimental conditions, highlighting the need for a more standardized mechanistic framework. This study investigates the transcriptional landscape and regulatory mechanisms underlying the differentiation of induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) towards neural commitment using three orthogonal methodologies across four scRNA seq datasets. In brief, each dataset was processed through a standard Seurat pipeline followed by identification of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) via the Wilcoxon rank-sum test. The significant transcription factors (TFs) were cross validated against the human TF catalogue and ranked accordingly. We identified 15 TFs up-regulated across datasets, and 54 TFs upregulated in three out of four datasets. Among these, ASCL1 emerged as the top candidate. The downregulation of LIN28A and SOX2 is consistent with silencing of the pluripotency network. The second part of the study involved the construction of a co -expression network through a consensus of the four datasets. The network yielded 24 co-expression modules which prioritised hub transcription factors of neural commitment. Module trait correlations were computed with WGCNA, identifying NCAM1 module as top hub. RTN regulon interference and master regulator analysis was applied as a third analysis method. The intersection resulted in identification of LCOR, MEIS3 and EBF1 as the top intramodular hub genes regulators. Current study offers a comprehensive map of key transcriptional dynamics and regulatory nodes involved in iPSC-to-NSC differentiation. This study offers insights into neural development and identifies prioritised candidates for experimental follow-up.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
This study aims to elucidate the role of suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 (SOCS3) in glioma stem cells (GSCs) via single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), focusing on its regulation of STAT3-mediated self-renewal, apoptosis resistance, and tumor microenvironment (TME) remodeling. ScRNA-seq data from 19 high-grade glioma patients were analyzed using Seurat, Harmony, and SingleR for clustering, annotation, and SOCS3 stratification (SOCS3-High: n = 4; SOCS3-Low: n = 15). Differential gene analysis, pathway enrichment, and CellChat were employed for TME characterization. In vitro, SOCS3-overexpressing/silenced GSC11 models were tested via MTT, TUNEL, neurosphere assays, and STAT3 pathway modulation (IL-6). In vivo, intracranial xenografts in nude mice evaluated tumor growth and survival. SOCS3 was downregulated in GSCs and neurons. SOCS3-Low GSCs exhibited 777 differentially expressed genes enriched in T-cell receptor, p53, and JAK-STAT axis, suppressed T-cell/microglia infiltration, and promoted oligodendrocyte precursor cell/astrocyte survival. SOCS3 overexpression reduced GSC proliferation, induced apoptosis, inhibited neurosphere formation, and suppressed STAT3 phosphorylation and stemness markers (OCT4/SOX2/NANOG). IL-6 reactivated STAT3, reversing SOCS3-mediated tumor suppression. In vivo, SOCS3 overexpression attenuated tumor growth and prolonged survival, counteracted by IL-6. Low SOCS3 expression contributes to glioma progression by promoting STAT3 activation and an immunosuppressive TME. Targeting the SOCS3-STAT3 axis may offer therapeutic potential.© 2025 The Author(s). Journal of Cell Communication and Signaling published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Interspecific hybridisation has been demonstrated to produce offspring that exhibit advantageous traits; however, these offspring frequently exhibit reduced viability or infertility. The cattle-yak, a hybrid animal, is a natural model with which to study hybrid male sterility. The mechanism of male sterility in this species has not yet been fully elucidated. 79.88% of the differentially expressed genes were found to be significantly downregulated during the transition from gonocytes to spermatogonia in the cattle-yak. This resulted in an imbalance of proliferation and differentiation of spermatogonial stem cells in the cattle-yak, leading to a decrease in the number of spermatogonial stem cells. Over-expression of LIN28A has been demonstrated to promote the proliferation of undifferentiated spermatogonia in cattle-yak, primarily by means of up-regulating proliferation-related genes and down-regulating differentiation-related genes. Furthermore, the spermatogenic arrest in the cattle-yak was aggravated at the pachytene primary spermatocyte stage. During this stage, the chromosomes of primary spermatocytes exhibited excessive agglutination and subsequently underwent apoptosis, which ultimately resulted in the atypical configuration of the spermatogenic epithelium of the cattle-yak. The arrest of spermatogenesis in cattle-yak was originated from the transition from gonocytes to spermatogonia, resulting in the destruction of the balance of proliferation and differentiation of spermatogonial stem cells, and aggravated at the primary spermatocyte stage of pachytene, resulting in an absence of sperm in the spermatogenic epithelium.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Glioblastoma cells strongly express the tryptophan-metabolizing enzyme indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase 1 (IDO1), which is important in enabling immune evasion. Notably, glioma stem-like cells (GSCs) express higher levels of IDO1 than differentiated glioblastoma cells (DGCs); therefore, it was hypothesized that IDO1 inhibition in GSCs may induce differentiation. The present study used the glioblastoma cell line U-87MG, and newly established GSC lines 0125-GSC and 0222-GSC. A model GSC line, Rev-U-87MG, was created by culturing U-87MG in serum-free medium. Rev-U-87MG-IDO(-) was generated by continuous treatment with an IDO1 inhibitor. The DGC lines 0125-DGC and 0222-DGC were derived by culturing 0125-GSC and 0222-GSC in serum-containing medium. IDO1-inhibited GSC lines 0125-GSC-IDO(-) and 0222-GSC-IDO(-) were generated by continuous IDO1 inhibitor exposure. The expression levels of IDO1 and stem cell markers (Nestin, Nanog and Sox2) were measured by western blotting, and temozolomide sensitivity was evaluated by cell counting. Notably, U-87MG, 0125-DGC and 0222-DGC adhered without sphere formation. By contrast, Rev-U-87MG, 0125-GSC and 0222-GSC formed spheres, whereas IDO1-inhibited cells showed partial adhesion with reduced sphere formation. IDO1 and stem cell marker expression were reduced in all IDO1-inhibited cell lines. Rev-U-87MG exhibited decreased temozolomide sensitivity compared with U-87MG, whereas Rev-U-87MG-IDO(-) showed increased sensitivity. Similarly, 0125-DGC and 0222-DGC were more sensitive than their parent GSC lines, and 0125-GSC-IDO(-) and 0222-GSC-IDO(-) also exhibited enhanced drug sensitivity compared with their parent GSC lines at multiple concentrations. These findings suggest that IDO1 inhibition may induce the differentiation of GSCs and reduce their resistance to temozolomide.Copyright: © 2026 Nishide et al.
Nanog, a transcription factor, is involved in cancer initiation and progression.To explore the potential regulatory mechanism of Nanog in gastric cancer.Immunohistochemistry (IHC) was used to examine E-cadherin, N-cadherin, Nanog, and KDM5B in gastric cancer (Ca), metastatic lymph node cancer (L), and adjacent normal tissues (N). MTT, migration, and invasion assays were used to evaluate cell viability, migration, and invasion of gastric cancer cells SGC-7901 induced by transforming growth factor (TGF)-β1, or with Nanog overexpression/knockdown. Western blot was used to examine the relative protein expression of E-cadherin, N-cadherin, Nanog, and lysine-specific demethylase 5B (KDM5B) in cells. KDM5B was silenced by siRNA in cells, and E-cadherin, N-cadherin, and H3K4me3 were examined with western blot, while the interaction between Nanog and KDM5B was examined using a co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) assay. Furthermore, H3K4me3 protein expression was validated in N, Ca, and L tissues using IHC.E-cadherin was hypoexpressed, while N-cadherin, Nanog, and KDM5B were hyperexpressed in the Ca and L groups compared with the N group. TGF-β1 and Nanog enhanced cell viability, migration, and invasion by promoting epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). KDM5B was identified to bind to Nanog and was positively regulated by Nanog, and functioned as a negative regulator of histone H3 Lys4 trimethylation (H3K4me3) in SGC-7901 cells. KDM5B knockdown inhibited cell invasion and EMT. The Nanog/KDM5B/H3K4me3 pathway contributes to the proliferation, migration, and invasion of SGC-7901 cells by inhibiting E-cadherin and enhancing N-cadherin.This study provides new insights into the regulatory role and mechanism of Nanog/KDM5B/H3K4me3 in gastric cancer, which might be potential biomarkers in the diagnosis and prognosis of gastric cancer.
Acral melanoma (AM) is a non-ultraviolet (non-UV)-derived subtype of cutaneous melanoma that is associated with worse survival outcomes compared to UV-driven melanomas. AM tumors exhibit distinct molecular characteristics and poor responses to immune checkpoint blockade. Hitherto, the role of transposable elements (TEs), particularly human endogenous retroviruses (HERVs), in AM progression remains incompletely characterized.We quantified locus-specific TE expression from RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) of 36 AM samples from 33 patients and integrated the results with clinical outcomes, a pathologist-reviewed purity covariate, and immune cell deconvolution.A three-locus HERV signature, composed of ERV316A3_6p25.1d, HERVH_6q21a, and ERVLE_9q21.32c, stratified AM tumors by overall survival with a leave-one-patient-out C-index of 0.778 (bootstrap 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.614-0.914, permutation p = 0.015) and a Kaplan-Meier log-rank of p = 0.003 across risk tertiles. In a multivariable Cox model adjusted for primary site, tumor cellularity pathology, sex, ulceration, and Breslow depth, with patient-clustered robust standard errors, the signature remained strongly prognostic (HR: 2.19 per 1-standard deviation [s.d.] increase in risk score, 95% CI: 1.38-3.47, p = 0.001). High-risk tumors were natural killer (NK)-cell-depleted (Spearman ρ = -0.58, false discovery rate [FDR] p = 0.004) and showed coordinated elevation of LIN28A and HMGA2 (ρ = +0.55 and +0.45), consistent with reactivation of the LIN28A/let-7/HMGA2 oncofetal axis rather than a full pluripotency program. High-risk tumors were also associated with reduced odds ratio of response to immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) therapy (OR: 0.20 per 1-s.d. increase, p = 0.075), whereas reported mutation burden was not (OR: 1.02, p = 0.80), consistent with the unexplained low-TMB checkpoint responders previously reported in this cohort. A single locus, HML6_20p11.21, retained a full 9.14 kb proviral structure and a 333-aa open reading frame (ORF) with intact integrase, protease, and gag motifs. Peptide-human leukocyte antigen (HLA) binding predictions identified strong HML6-derived binders for every HLA class I allele in the typed cohort, and at least one strong binder in all 25 typed patients.Our findings reframe AM as a transcriptomically stratifiable disease, define a locus-specific HERV signature of aggressive, checkpoint-refractory AM, and nominate a structurally intact, pan-HLA-presentable HERV-K antigen candidate for further evaluation.Copyright © 2026 Marston, Fei, Reyes-Gopar, Bendall and Nixon.
Lin28a and Lin28b serve as crucial regulators in gametogenesis. However, it remains unclear whether the two genes are expressed in goat ovarian tissues. In the present study, we examined the distribution of Lin28a proteins in the ovarian tissues of juvenile and pubertal Jining Grey (JG) goats. Additionally, we investigated the mutations in Lin28a and Lin28b and their association with litter size in JG goats. Lin28a proteins were predominantly expressed in the oocytes and granulosa cells of the follicles at different stages of development. Lin28a was also expressed in the corpus luteum, and its expression level declined as the corpus luteum formed and degenerated into the corpus albicans. A mutation (12298T>C) was identified in intron 2 of Lin28a, and there was no significant difference ( P>0.05 ) in terms of the kidding number among the three genotypes of JG goats. For Lin28b, a mutation (718A>T) in exon 4 was found, presenting three genotypes. The frequency of genotypes AA, AT, and TT was 0.466, 0.504, and 0.03, respectively. The A allele was the dominant allele in JG goats, with an allele frequency of 0.718. At this locus, JG female goats with genotypes TT and AT had 0.83 ( P<0.01 ) and 0.48 ( P<0.05 ) more kids than the goats with genotype AA, and no significant difference ( P>0.05 ) was observed in terms of litter size between the TT and AT genotypes. The present study preliminarily indicated an association between the T allele at the 718 locus in Lin28b and a larger litter size in JG goats. Moreover, Lin28a was widely expressed in follicles. These results suggest a potential DNA marker for improving the kidding number in goats and hold significance for goat breeding.Copyright: © 2025 Huili Liang et al.
Small intestinal adenocarcinoma (SIAC) is a rare malignancy with a rising incidence and poor prognosis. Although exportin-7 (XPO7) is typically characterized as a tumor suppressor, recent evidence suggests context-dependent oncogenic functions, yet its role in SIAC remains unexplored. This study evaluated the clinicopathological significance of XPO7 expression and its association with KRAS status, autophagy, and cancer stemness in 191 surgically resected primary SIAC cases using immunohistochemistry and automated digital quantification. XPO7 was significantly upregulated in SIAC compared to normal mucosa (p < 0.001). High XPO7 expression, observed in 27.2% of cases, correlated with higher histological grade (p = 0.023) and was identified as an independent predictor of poor overall survival (hazard ratio = 1.703; p = 0.008). Subgroup analysis revealed that high XPO7 levels were associated with significantly shorter median overall survival specifically in cases featuring lymphovascular invasion, nodal metastasis, and KRAS mutations. Furthermore, XPO7 expression demonstrated a significant positive correlation with autophagy markers (LC3B and p62) but not with stemness markers (Sox2, Oct4, and Nanog). In conclusion, XPO7 serves as a significant independent prognostic biomarker for SIAC, and its correlation with autophagy markers in aggressive subgroups highlights its potential as a promising therapeutic target.
N6-methyladenosine (m6A) is the most common RNA modification and plays a key role in the initiation, progression, and relapse of multiple cancers, including hematologic malignancies. However, the role of m6A and m6A regulatory genes in myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) remains unclear. This study aims to elucidate the function and molecular mechanism of methyltransferase METTL14 in MDS.RT-qPCR was used to assess the expression of multiple m6A regulators, focusing on METTL14 in MDS patients and cell lines. METTL14 overexpressing and knockdown cell lines were established, and CCK-8, EdU, and flow cytometry assays were performed to explore the biological functions of METTL14.Dot blot, MeRIP-Seq, MeRIP-qPCR, RT-qPCR, and Western blot were employed to investigate the underlying molecular mechanism.Dysregulation of multiple m6A regulators was observed in MDS, among which METTL14 was upregulated. Elevated METTL14 expression increases MDS risk and adverse prognosis, emerging as a biomarker for poor prognosis. METTL14 promoted proliferation and cell-cycle progression of MDS cells while inhibiting apoptosis; corresponding changes were observed in cell cycle and apoptosis markers. METTL14 regulated cellular m6A levels. Downstream target of METTL14 enriched in cell cycle-related pathways, with CCNE1 identified as a critical target. Knockdown of METTL14, actinomycin D, or S-adenosylhomocysteine treatment reduced CCNE1 mRNA and protein levels. Furthermore, METTL14 activated MAPK-ERK and PI3K-AKT signaling via CCNE1 in an m6A-dependent manner, thereby promoting proliferative MDS cells' capacity.This study delineates a METTL14/m6A/CCNE1 signaling axis in MDS progression and suggests that METTL14-mediated m6A modification may be a potential therapeutic target for MDS.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) remains a leading cause of cancer mortality, with its molecular heterogeneity posing a therapeutic challenge. This study investigates the pharmacologically targetable METTL14-mediated pathway in modulating cancer stemness and response to combined radiotherapy and PD-1 blockade. We performed single-cell RNA sequencing and m6A methylation sequencing on matched untreated and radiotherapy/anti-PD-1-treated NSCLC samples. ANALYSIS: of 21,019 cells revealed that combined treatment reduced cancer stem cells (CSCs) and exhausted CD8+ T cells, while increasing naïve CD8+ T cells. m6A sequencing identified METTL14 as a key regulator enhancing Wnt9a mRNA stability via m6A modification. In CSCs, Wnt9a activation stabilizes β-catenin by inhibiting its phosphorylation and degradation, promoting nuclear translocation and transcriptional activity through TCF/LEF, thereby driving malignancy. Pharmacologically, targeting METTL14 disrupts this axis and suppresses CSC stemness. Our findings establish METTL14 as a central pharmacological target whose inhibition suppresses the Wnt9a/β-catenin pathway, enhances radiotherapy and anti-PD-1 efficacy, and reduces CSC-driven progression in NSCLC.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558535 is a review article
The Polycomb repressive complexes can be considered a paradigm of chromatin-based gene regulation in animals. Two of the proteins involved in such complexes are the Ring finger protein 1 (RING1) and the intrinsically disordered protein RING1A and YY1 binding protein (RYBP), which binds to RING1 in some of the Polycomb complexes. Peptidyl arginine iminohydrolases (PADIs) are enzymes involved in the post-translational modification of arginine to citrulline. PADI4, one of the five isoforms of PADI in humans, citrullinates RING1B and RYBP at specific arginines at their C-terminal (Arg231) and N-terminal (Arg53) regions, respectively. In this work, we studied in vitro and in silico whether isolated peptides from each protein, encompassing those wild-type arginines and their citrulline-modified counterparts, were capable of binding to PADI4. The isolated peptides, either in wild-type or modified form, were monomeric and disordered as indicated by far-UV CD and NMR. The affinity constants of peptides for PADI4, as measured by fluorescence, biolayer interferometry (BLI) and isothermal titration calorimetry (ITC), were in the low micromolar range (dissociation constants around 10-20 μM), and the affinities were smaller for the citrullinated variants. Molecular docking simulations showed that the isolated peptides from each protein, either in wild-type form or modified variants, targeted the active site of PADI4, corresponding to the catalytic residue Cys645. These findings suggest that the isolated peptides were capable of binding to the enzyme with affinities similar to those of intact RING1B or RYBP, and that citrullination of the arginines diminished the affinity for the enzyme.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42534835 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42534149 is a review article
Kashin-Beck disease (KBD) is a chronic, endemic osteoarticular disorder associated with T-2 toxin exposure, which is rapidly metabolized to HT-2 toxin in vivo. However, the role of zinc transporter ZIP6 in HT-2 toxin-induced extracellular matrix metabolic disturbance in chondrocytes remains unclear. This study established HT-2 toxin intervention and ZIP6 knockdown chondrocyte models, combined with quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and transcriptome sequencing, to investigate the regulatory mechanisms of ZIP6 in chondrocyte injury. Following HT-2 toxin exposure, altered chondrocyte morphology and reduced cell viability were observed; ZIP6, COL2A1, MTF1, and MTF2 expression were significantly downregulated, whereas MMP1, MMP13, and COL10A1 were upregulated. ZIP6 knockdown significantly upregulated COL2A1, MTF1, and MTF2, downregulated MMP1 and COL10A1, but did not alter MMP13 expression. Differentially expressed genes following ZIP6 knockdown were predominantly enriched in FoxO, cAMP, and TNF signaling pathways. qRT-PCR validation confirmed consistent expression changes in FOXO4, TNFSF10, COLEC10, UCA1, and LRRC17 with transcriptome sequencing results. Collectively, HT-2 toxin suppresses ZIP6, MTF1, and MTF2 expression, disrupting chondrocyte extracellular matrix metabolism; conversely, ZIP6 knockdown ameliorates matrix metabolic abnormalities through modulation of relevant signaling pathways. These findings reveal differential regulatory effects of HT-2 toxin and ZIP6 on cartilage matrix metabolism, providing experimental evidence for elucidating molecular mechanisms underlying cartilage injury-related diseases.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Biochemical and Molecular Toxicology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Molar root-incisor malformation (MRIM) is characterized by abnormalities in the root and pulpal floor, which may lead to dental complications. However, research on MRIM remains limited and is largely confined to case-based observations. Therefore, this study aimed to characterize the morphology and proteomic profile of the cervical mineralized diaphragm (CMD) in MRIM. Extracted MRIM-affected teeth (n = 11) from 6 patients and extracted third molars as controls (n = 11) were collected. Two MRIM-affected teeth and two control teeth were subjected to micro-computed tomography and scanning electron microscopy. CMD tissues adjacent to the pulpal floor and control pulpal-floor dentin were harvested for protein extraction and analyzed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Label-free quantification and bioinformatics analyses (gene set enrichment and protein-protein interaction network analysis) were performed, and proteins with >2-fold change were considered differentially expressed. Micro-computed tomography demonstrated a highly radiopaque CMD at the pulpal floor that occluded pulp-root canal communication, with a radiodensity between that of the enamel and dentin and a dense/porous internal architecture. Scanning electron microscopy revealed columnar and crystal-like structures. Proteomic profiles differed between MRIM and controls, with reduced epithelial-mesenchymal transition signaling in MRIM (normalized enrichment score = 1.47, false discovery rate = 0.116; control vs. MRIM). A total of 116 proteins showed >2-fold change (62 upregulated and 54 downregulated). Upregulated proteins included keratinization-associated proteins (KRT75, KRT82, EVPL, and KRT6B) with enrichment of keratinization- and epidermis-related terms, whereas downregulated proteins included SPP1, AMBN, and ECM1, which were associated with biomineral tissue development. Within the limits of this study, the CMD in MRIM exhibits a distinctive mineralized microarchitecture and a proteomic signature implicating altered epithelial-associated and extracellular matrix/mineralization processes. These findings provide candidate targets for tissue-level validation and mechanistic studies of MRIM.
The aim was to determine the transcriptomic features of tumor and stromal cells in direct contact within tumor nodules in luminal and triple-negative breast cancer.Spatial transcriptomic profiling was performed using the Visium 10x platform on FFPE tumor tissue sections from 10 patients with luminal breast cancer and 9 patients with triple-negative breast cancer. Manual morphological annotation of spots and evaluation of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in identified spot clusters were performed using Loupe Browser v8.0.0 (10X Genomics, USA). Activated biological processes were assessed using the Enrichr online resource and the GO Biological Process 2025 database. Ligand-receptor pairs were identified using the CellChat package (v2.0) in R (v4.4.2).In luminal breast cancer, mixed cluster (tumor cells colocalized with stromal cells) was characterized by overexpression of genes encoding S100A family Ca2+-binding proteins (S100A4, S100A8, S100A9), matrix metalloproteinases (MMP2, MMP7, MMP14), cytokeratins (KRT5, KRT7, KRT15, KRT23, KRT81), the mesenchymal marker VIM, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT)-associated genes (ICAM1, PRRX1) compared to tumor-only cluster. In triple-negative breast cancer, mixed cluster showed overexpression of S100A2, S100A8, S100A9, the epithelial gene KRT6B, the cancer stem cell marker CD44, and NOTCH2, which is associated with negative regulation of EMT. In both breast cancer subtypes, mixed cluster showed transcriptomic enrichment of gene sets associated with regulation of the ERK/MAPK cascade, apoptosis, and cell adhesion and migration. Ligand-receptor pairs associated with cell-cell contact, EMT, and immune response were also detected in colocalized cells, with a broader spectrum of these pairs observed in luminal breast cancer.This study assessed the transcriptomic characteristics of directly contacting tumor and stromal cells and identified the spectrum of ligand-receptor pairs mediating their interactions. Characterizing the properties of cells at the tumor-stroma interface helps unravel mechanisms of breast cancer progression and identify novel diagnostic markers and therapeutic targets.© The Author(s) 2026.
Disulfidptosis is a recently described cell-death-related process associated with intracellular disulfide stress and may be relevant to tumor progression and immune regulation. However, its prognostic significance and broader biological relevance in colorectal cancer (CRC) remain unclear.Transcriptomic and clinical data from TCGA and GEO cohorts were systematically integrated to characterize disulfidptosis-related molecular patterns in CRC. A four-gene prognostic signature was developed in a randomly assigned training cohort and evaluated in the corresponding internal test cohort. Public datasets were further used for gene-level expression analysis, and survival associations were assessed in the GSE39582 cohort. Immune infiltration, tumor mutation burden, microsatellite instability, and estimated drug-sensitivity analyses were performed to explore the biological correlates and therapeutic-response-related patterns associated with the model. The four model genes were further examined using single-cell RNA-seq data and public immunohistochemical images from the Human Protein Atlas, and were preliminarily assessed in 11 paired CRC tissues and matched adjacent normal tissues by RT-qPCR and western blotting.A four-gene signature consisting of SPINK1, GPRASP1, TIMP1, and KRT6A stratified patients into prognostically distinct risk groups. The high-risk group showed poorer survival, higher tumor mutation burden, higher TIDE scores, and elevated stromal, immune, and ESTIMATE scores, suggesting a more immune-evasive tumor microenvironment. Enrichment analyses indicated that high-risk tumors were associated with extracellular matrix remodeling and PI3K-Akt-related pathways, whereas low-risk tumors were enriched in metabolic processes. Estimated drug-sensitivity analyses indicated agent-specific differences between the two risk groups. The high-risk group showed lower estimated IC50 values for several cytotoxic and targeted agents, including cisplatin, docetaxel, doxorubicin, etoposide, vinorelbine, nilotinib, and gefitinib, whereas the low-risk group showed lower estimated IC50 values for AKT inhibitor VIII, sorafenib, lapatinib, erlotinib, and BIBW2992.This study identified a four-gene prognostic signature associated with disulfidptosis-related molecular heterogeneity in CRC. The signature was associated with survival differences, distinct tumor microenvironmental features, and divergent biological programs across risk groups, while KRT6A showed the most consistent pattern across public-dataset analyses and tissue-level analyses. These findings support the potential relevance of this subtype-guided signature to prognostic stratification in CRC and identify related genes for further biological investigation and independent validation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) have transformed the therapeutic landscape of advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), yet ~50% of lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) patients exhibit primary or acquired resistance, underscoring the urgent need for predictive biomarkers. Hypoxia and metabolic reprogramming (HMR) are intertwined oncogenic hallmarks that reshape the tumor microenvironment (TME) and drive immune evasion, representing promising targets for signature development. Herein, we constructed an integrated HMR gene signature to predict clinical outcomes and therapeutic vulnerabilities in LUAD.Transcriptomic data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) were analyzed. Hypoxia and energy metabolism pathways were scored via single-sample gene set enrichment analysis (ssGSEA), and subtypes were stratified. A 9-gene prognostic model was constructed using least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression and validated across cohorts. Single-cell RNA (scRNA) data and in-house experimental validation explored associations between gene expression, immune microenvironment, and treatment outcomes.We developed a 9-gene HMR signature (RHOV, CYP4B1, KRT6A, TNS4, HMGA2, FIGF, SFTPB, TMPRSS11E, GRIA1) incorporating hypoxia and energy metabolism pathway activity. This signature robustly stratified patients into high- and low-risk groups with distinct overall survival [OS; hazard ratio (HR) =2.24, P<0.001]. High-risk patients exhibited enhanced immune evasion, characterized by elevated Tumor Immune Dysfunction and Exclusion (TIDE) scores (P<0.001) and a suppressed antitumor immune landscape, whereas distinct immune checkpoint expression patterns and subtype-specific drug sensitivities were observed between risk groups. scRNA sequencing revealed RHOV and TNS4 co-expressed with exhaustion markers (e.g., FOXP3, BTLA) and were enriched in non-major pathological response (non-MPR) patients. Validation in 39 ICI-treated NSCLC patients via quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and immunofluorescence (IF) confirmed that RHOV+ regulatory T cells and TNS4+ exhausted T cells were more abundant in poor responders.Overall, our integrated HMR signature exhibits robust prognostic and predictive value, unravels TME-driven ICI resistance mechanisms, and identifies subtype-specific therapeutic vulnerabilities. This tool has potential for clinical application, as it links HMR to clinical outcomes and provides novel insights to guide precision treatment strategies for LUAD patients.© AME Publishing Company.
Placenta Accreta Spectrum (PAS) is a severe obstetric disorder characterized by excessive trophoblast invasion into the uterine myometrium, leading to life-threatening hemorrhage at delivery. While closely monitored, the molecular drivers of its progression remain poorly defined, hindering predictive and therapeutic strategies. Here, we employed longitudinal quantitative proteomics on maternal plasma from five PAS patients across gestation. We identified Keratin 6A (KRT6A) as a key biomarker whose plasma levels increase with PAS progression. Immunohistochemistry confirmed the specific upregulation of KRT6A in trophoblasts at the maternal-fetal interface in PAS. Functional studies demonstrated that KRT6A overexpression significantly enhances the migration and invasion capabilities of trophoblast cell lines in vitro, without affecting proliferation or apoptosis. Integrative bioinformatics analysis linked KRT6A to the activation of the MYC signaling pathway, a known driver of invasiveness. Our data establish KRT6A as a plasma biomarker correlating with PAS severity and a functional regulator of trophoblast invasiveness. These findings suggest a novel mechanism wherein KRT6A-mediated enhancement of trophoblast invasion, potentially via MYC signaling, contributes to PAS pathogenesis. This work provides a potential circulating biomarker for monitoring PAS progression and implicates KRT6A as a candidate therapeutic target for mitigating excessive placental invasion.
Cervical squamous cell carcinoma (CESC), a subtype of cervical cancer, is an aggressive cancer. Radiotherapy is a key treatment for locally advanced cases, but its success is often limited by radioresistance. Therefore, this study explores whether the intermediate filament protein KRT6A increases the radioresistance of CESC cells by regulating lipid metabolism. The expression profile of KRT6A was analyzed using the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx) datasets via the University of California Santa Clara UCSC Xena platform, while associated signaling pathways were identified through gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) based on the GSE44001 dataset. Radioresistant SiHa cells (SiHa-R) were developed from the parental human CESC SiHa cell line. KRT6A mRNA levels were measured by qRT-PCR. Protein expression of KRT6A, γH2AX, and key lipogenic enzymes fatty acid synthase (FASN) and acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC1) was detected through Western blotting. Cell viability and proliferation were assessed using CCK-8 and colony formation assays, respectively. Apoptosis was evaluated with Annexin V-FITC/PI staining. Lipogenesis was examined by BODIPY staining and Acetyl-CoA measurement. Fatty acid composition was analyzed using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS). KRT6A was found to be upregulated in CESC tissues compared to normal tissues and was further increased in radioresistant cells compared to radiosensitive cells. Its knockdown in radioresistant SiHa cells reduced cell viability and proliferation, increased apoptosis, and enhanced radiation-induced DNA damage. GSEA indicated KRT6A's involvement in fatty acid metabolism. LC-MS analysis showed that reducing KRT6A expression led to the overall decrease in multiple fatty acids. Overexpression of KRT6A increased FASN and ACC1 levels, promoted lipid droplet formation, and decreased radiation damage. These resistance effects were effectively reversed by the lipogenesis inhibitor C75. Therefore, KRT6A promotes radioresistance in CESC by activating lipogenesis.
Palmoplantar keratoderma (PPK) is a heterogeneous group of skin diseases, characterised by excessive keratinization and hyperplasia of the palms and soles. However, accurate molecular diagnosis remains challenging due to the low prevalence of hereditary forms. This study analysed the phenotype and genotype distribution in a large cohort of Chinese patients with PPK, aiming to clarify the genetic aetiology and genotype-phenotype correlations. We further validated the pathogenicity of biallelic SERPINA12 variants identified in four patients. A total of 424 patients with PPK were enrolled from 2010 to 2023. Of these, 97.6% (414/424) presented with diffuse PPK, predominantly Nagashima-type PPK (NPPK), with rare cases of Olmsted, Meleda and Bothnia types. Focal PPK accounted for 1.4%, with less than 1% for striate and punctate types, respectively. Genetic testing was performed in 380 patients. Overall, 328 patients harboured pathogenic or likely pathogenic (P/LP) variants to achieve definite molecular diagnosis; none carried only variants of uncertain significance (VUS) and the remaining 52 patients had no candidate disease-associated variants identified. All patients underwent testing with an in-house customised SERPINB7 gene hotspot panel test for c.796C>T, c.522_523insT, c.806_818delinsT and c.650_653delCTGT variants. In 80% (304/380) patients, hotspot variants in SERPINB7 were identified, with c.796C>T (77%) and c.522_523insT (16%) being the most frequent. Patients not diagnosed with a hotspot variant further underwent whole-exome sequencing (WES), which identified confirmed pathogenic (P) or likely pathogenic (LP) variants in TRPV3 (c.1246C>T, c.1703G>A, c.1247G>A), AQP5 (c.530 T>A, c.367A>T), SLURP1 (c.154A>G), KRT9 (c.1373 T>C), KRT6A (c.947G>C) and KRT16 (c.379C>T). In addition, three recurrent SERPINA12 variants were identified, enriching the gene spectrum of diffuse PPK. This study established the largest cohort of patients with SERPINB7 variants reported to date, identifying that NPPK is the predominant subtype among Chinese populations. Variants in SERPINA12 are likely correlated with diffuse palmoplantar keratoderma, consistent with the clinical manifestations of NPPK. Additionally, a diagnostic panel targeting ancestral SERPINB7 founder variants would markedly improve the molecular diagnostic yield in Chinese patients.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Atopic dermatitis (AD) is caused by a combination of epidermal barrier defect and immune imbalance. However, the molecular networks between these structural abnormalities and metabolic variations are unclear. This study aim of this research was to examine the concurrent molecular alterations in skin barrier damage and metabolic disorders in an AD-like mouse model by a multi-omics strategy. A 2,4-dinitrochlorobenzene (DNCB)-induced AD-like mouse model was established and the skin tissues were examined through the combination of transcriptomic, quantitative proteomic, and metabolomic analyses. Cross-omics correlation and network analyses were performed to identify consistently abnormal molecular pathways and crucial regulatory molecules. DNCB treatment caused severe epidermal hyperplasia, and prominent infiltration of CD3⁺ T cells, F4/80⁺ macrophages, and mast cells. Transcriptomic and proteomic analysis indicated significant disruption in keratinocyte differentiation, extracellular matrix organization, and cornified envelope formation pathways. Combined analysis detected 171 molecules which were simultaneously altered at both mRNA and protein levels, and network analysis identified FLG2 and KRT6B as central barrier-related molecules. Pathway enrichment analysis consistently showed the participation of AMPK and PPAR signaling pathways. Metabolomic analysis also revealed coordinated changes in lipid and amino acid metabolism which were closely associated with cornified envelope-associated genes and collagen-modifying enzymes. These findings indicate a close relationship between barrier, immune and metabolic regulation in DNCB-induced dermatitis and provide a multi-omics resource for future mechanistic studies of atopic skin inflammation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Background/Objectives: The Indian star tortoise (Geochelone elegans) is a protected species for which physiological and molecular health indicators remain poorly characterized. This study aimed to monitor and analyze plasma proteome profiles and biochemical parameters in captive adult Indian star tortoises and to identify potential diagnostic biomarkers. Methods: Plasma samples from nine clinically healthy adult Indian star tortoises (four males and five females) maintained in captivity were subjected to biochemical profiling and proteomic analysis. Sex-related differences in biochemical parameters were evaluated, and differentially expressed proteins were mapped to Homo sapiens Reactome pathways to identify significantly enriched biological processes. Results: Plasma biochemical profiling established baseline reference values, indicating stable hepatic and metabolic function in captive tortoises. Creatinine and urea concentrations were significantly higher in females than in males (p < 0.05), suggesting sex-related differences in protein metabolism or renal function. No significant sex-related differences were observed in hepatic enzymes (ALP, ALT, AST, and GGT), muscle-associated enzymes (CK and LDH), glucose, cholesterol, triglycerides, total proteins, albumin, or electrolyte concentrations (Na, K, Ca, Mg, Cl, P, and Fe). Proteomic analysis identified 12 differentially expressed proteins, including nine upregulated and three downregulated proteins. Functional pathway analysis revealed 90 significantly enriched Reactome pathways (FDR < 0.05). Upregulated proteins were primarily associated with cytoskeletal organization (KRT75, KRT5, and KRT17), lipid transport and remodeling (APOB), coagulation (F10), extracellular transport (TTR), immune response (WFDC3), transmembrane signaling (KCP), and gamete interaction (ZAN). Downregulated proteins (C7, SERPING1, and PZP) were linked to complement activation and acute-phase response pathways. Conclusions: Captive Indian star tortoises exhibited increased cytoskeletal remodeling and coagulation activity together with reduced complement activation. These findings provide novel insights into the plasma proteome of this species and identify candidate biomarkers that may support future health assessment, physiological monitoring, and diagnostic applications in Indian star tortoises.
Plumage color is an economically important trait in chickens, and barred chickens are characterized by a distinct feather pattern in which variation in pigmentation (yellow-barred vs. white-barred) is frequently observed. Although the genetic basis of barred patterning has been partially elucidated, the mechanisms underlying pigmentation differences within barred feathers remain unclear. In this study, genome-wide association study (GWAS) and selection signature (FST) analyses based on 47 individuals (20 yellow-barred and 27 white-barred) identified several candidate genomic regions and genes, including BRINP2, SLC22A4, SLC22A5, and ACTN1, potentially associated with pigment variation. Transcriptomic analysis of feather follicles further revealed substantial gene expression divergence between the two phenotypes, with 739 differentially expressed genes identified, among which SLC45A2, BCO2, EDAR, KRT75, and KRT14 were notable candidates. Functional enrichment analysis indicated that these genes are primarily involved in skin development, epidermal differentiation, keratinization, and intermediate filament organization. Integrated analyses suggest that coordinated regulation of melanin synthesis, carotenoid metabolism, and feather follicle structural development contributes to the observed pigmentation differences. Overall, this study provides genomic and transcriptomic insights into the molecular basis of pigmentation variation in barred chickens and offers a foundation for future functional validation and molecular breeding.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Intermuscular bones (IBs) are ossified structures within the myoseptal connective tissues of cyprinid fishes and negatively affect eating quality and processing suitability. Although runx2b has been shown to be essential for IB formation, the molecular changes associated with runx2b-mediated IB reduction or loss remain poorly understood. In this study, runx2b-edited Culter alburnus F1 individuals were generated and classified into wild-type, heterozygous mutant, and homozygous mutant groups. Skeletal staining revealed a clear genotype-associated phenotypic gradient, with normal IBs in wild-type individuals, markedly reduced IBs in heterozygous mutants, and complete IB absence in homozygous mutants. Integrated transcriptomic and proteomic analyses were then performed using matched muscle/myoseptal tissues to characterize molecular changes associated with this phenotypic gradient. Global mRNA-protein correlations were weak and DEG-DEP overlaps were limited, suggesting that transcriptomic changes alone cannot fully explain protein-level remodeling after runx2b mutation. Functional enrichment and integrated omics analysis highlighted coordinated changes in cytoskeletal organization, extracellular matrix remodeling, cell adhesion, calcium-related signaling, muscle-associated processes, and ossification-related pathways. Representative candidate molecules, including MYH1s, CDH26, PLIN5, PAH, HBA/HBB, GPX4, KRT1, GSN, LGALS9, and ANXA3, were mainly associated with structural, metabolic, and microenvironmental remodeling rather than being interpreted as direct downstream osteogenic targets of runx2b. Overall, these findings suggest that runx2b-associated IB reduction and loss may involve coordinated remodeling of the myoseptal osteogenic microenvironment rather than disruption of a single ossification pathway. This study provides a discovery-oriented multi-omics resource and a hypothesis-generating molecular model for future functional validation of IB development in cyprinid fishes.
Jinfeng pills (JFP), a well-known traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) consisted of 9 herbs, benefit Qi, nourish the blood, effectively regulate the menstrual cycle, promote ovulation and improve endometrial thickness and blood flow. Previous studies have shown that JFP has certain effect on premature ovarian insufficiency (POI). In this prospective cohort study, the effect and mechanisms of JFP on the outcomes of in vitro fertilization and embryo transfer (IVF-ET) in poor ovarian response(POR) was investigated.Patients diagnosed with POR based on the Bologna criteria were prospectively randomized into two groups: the JFP group and the POR group. Young patients with normal ovarian reserve were included in the Control (Con) group. The live birth rate (LBR), levels of estradiol (E2), progesterone, total testosterone (TT), and insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) in the follicular fluid (FF) and outcomes of IVF-ET were compared. Network pharmacology, combined with transcriptomics and proteomics, was used to identify core targets and signaling pathways. Molecular docking was performed to evaluate the interactions between the core components of JFP and the identified targets.Compared with the Con group, the POR group presented significantly lower levels of E2 [1302.00 (985.50, 1464.50) ng/mL vs. 2561.00 (2190.50, 3084.00) ng/mL] and TT [2.41 (1.45, 3.15) ng/mL vs. 5.12 (4.00, 6.79) ng/mL] in FF (P < 0.017). These levels were greater in the JFP group [E2: 2450.00 (1603.00, 2842.00) ng/mL; TT: 2.85 (2.08, 4.55) ng/mL] than in the POR group (P < 0.017). IGF-1 levels in FF [79.60 (64.00, 88.50) ng/mL vs. 87.90 (78.80, 112.00) ng/mL], the implantation rate, and the LBR per treatment were significantly lower in the POR group than in the Con group (P < 0.017), while there was no significant difference compared with those in the JFP group (P > 0.05). The birth weight and height of the infants did not differ significantly among the three groups (P > 0.05). Transcriptomic and proteomic analyses revealed seven core genes (ALPL, HPSE, KRT1, LDLR, METTL7B, TGFBI, and TMOD1) and one key pathway (glycosaminoglycan degradation). Molecular docking confirmed strong binding activity between the core components of JFP and these genes.JFP enhances the ovarian levels of steroid hormones in poor ovarian responders undergoing IVF-ET. The therapeutic effects of JFP may involve the regulation of ALPL, HPSE, KRT1, LDLR, METTL7B, TGFBI, TMOD1, and the glycosaminoglycan degradation pathway.© 2026. The Author(s).
Donkey chestnuts are hairless, darkly pigmented keratinized structures located on the medial forelimbs, anatomically distinct from surrounding skin. Despite their unique morphology, the molecular mechanisms underlying their formation and function remain poorly understood.An integrated multi-omics approach was applied to chestnut and skin tissues collected from four Dezhou donkeys. Bulk RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) was performed on six samples to assess transcriptomic differences, followed by single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) to resolve cellular composition, and proteomics to characterize protein expression patterns.Chestnut tissue displayed exceptionally high keratin expression, including KRT1, KRT5, KRT10, and KRT14 (TPM > 13,000), and was enriched in endothelial cells, pericytes, T cells, and mast cells. Proteomic analysis revealed significant upregulation of collagen I (COL1A1/COL1A2), indicative of active extracellular matrix remodeling. Pathway analysis identified enrichment in peroxisome activity, fatty acid metabolism, PPAR signaling, and PI3K-Akt networks.These findings collectively demonstrate that donkey chestnut is a metabolically active, specialized barrier tissue with a distinctive cellular and molecular profile. Its unique signatures related to keratinization, pigmentation, and immune cell enrichment suggest potential roles in barrier defense and anti-inflammatory regulation, providing a foundation for further investigation into the biological significance of this understudied structure.© 2026. The Author(s).
Type XVII collagen (COL17) is crucial for skin integrity but difficult to produce. To achieve high-level secretory expression, a human COL17 segment was designed and cloned into the pPIC9K vector with six different α-mating factor signal peptides and integrated into Komagataella phaffii GS115. Fed-batch fermentation in a 5 L bioreactor yielded 4.7 g/L of recombinant COL17. Functional assays showed that it promoted the proliferation of human skin fibroblast (HFF) and immortalized keratinocytes (HaCaT), upregulated COL1A1, COL3A1, and TIMP1 in HFF cells, and enhanced skin barrier-related genes (KRT1, KRT5, KRT10, KRT14, IVL, LOR, FLG) in HaCaT cells. In a UVB-induced photoaging model, COL17 reduced reactive oxygen species (ROS) and matrix metalloproteinase 3 (MMP3) activity. This recombinant collagen exhibits photoprotective, regenerative, and barrier-enhancing activities, offering potential for skincare and tissue engineering.
Proteomic profiling offers thorough insights into protein structure and function, as well as it acts as an essential approach for analyzing molecular changes at the tissue level. However, because of the proteome's diversity and dynamic nature, biomarker discovery remains challenging. By combining proteomics with bioinformatics, the level of understanding in relation to molecular interactions and disease processes can be improved. Through an integrative approach, few limitations can be addressed, thereby promoting proteomic profiling for the discovery of new therapeutic targets and novel biomarkers for a variety of disorders.To identify differentially expressed protein markers and their key molecular pathways associated with Oral Potentially Malignant Disorders.Systematic Review was conducted following the PRISMA guidelines and the protocol registered in the International Prospective Register of Systematic Reviews (PROSPERO) with the registration ID number CRD42024557545. A comprehensive literature review was performed using electronic databases, yielding 12,797, studies from which 15 eligible articles were selected. The Newcastle-Ottawa Scale was used to assess the risk of bias. Vote counting was performed to identify proteins reported in more than one study. A bipartite network was constructed using Cytoscape to identify shared and disease-specific protein markers. Lesion-wise protein-protein interaction networks were generated using STRING and analysed in Cytoscape to identify highly interconnected hub proteins, and pathway enrichment analysis for these hubs was performed using Reactome.A total of fifteen studies (Leukoplakia (LK) - n = 1, Proliferative Verrucous Leukoplakia (PVL) - n = 2, Oral Submucous Fibrosis (OSMF) - n = 7, and Oral Lichen Planus (OLP) - n = 5) were included. The Newcastle-Ottawa Scale was used to evaluate methodological quality and the quality of studies included in this systematic review was high for 4 articles and moderate in the remaining 11. The most commonly employed technique was mass spectrometry. A total of 318 candidate proteins (LK - 14, PVL - 82, OSMF - 172, and OLP - 50) were identified across the oral potentially malignant disorders. Key markers identified through vote counting included ERO1A, NUCB1, RHOA, and IL36A for PVL; LUM, KRT1, KRT9, ALB, and VIM for OSMF; and ALB, LYZ, HP, HBB, and AMY1A for OLP. The bipartite network showed that OSMF and OLP shared the highest number of proteins, indicating the strongest overlap among lesions. Network analysis further highlighted distinct hub proteins for each lesion: for LK- AMY1A, AMY1B and APOA1; for PVL- CFL1, RHOA and CDC42; for OSMF- HSP90AA1, ENO1 and SERPINA1; and for OLP- HP, B2M, and ORM1. Lesion-specific pathway enrichment revealed that LK was associated with epithelial differentiation, PVL with oncogenic signaling, OSMF with stress-driven fibrosis, and OLP with immune-mediated inflammation.Proteomic expression offers insights into disease pathogenesis by identifying important molecular changes across OPMDs. However, the majority of biomarkers are still in the exploratory stage due to the considerable variation in lesion types, sample sources, proteomic techniques, and reporting systems. In order to create reliable and clinically applicable biomarkers, future studies should concentrate on combining multi-omics techniques with large-scale, standardized cohorts.© 2026. The Author(s).
Collagen, a key extracellular matrix protein, regulates cell adhesion, proliferation, and tissue integrity for skin health. In this study, a novel human-like type III collagen was engineered by substituting hydrophobic GXY triplets in the core fragment (Gly201-Asn498) of the human α1(III)type chain with hydrophilic motifs (GSP, GQP, GEP, and GSQ) and incorporating integrin-binding sequences (GER and RGD) at the C-terminus of the two consecutive sequence units. The codon-optimized gene was cloned into the pPIC9K vector, and transformed into Komagataella phaffii (Pichia pastoris) GS115. Multicopy transformants were selected by various G418 concentrations. Furthermore, a high yield of recombinant collagen at 19.4 g/L was achieved by fed-batch fermentation in a 5-L bioreactor. The purified protein exhibited excellent thermostability, remaining fully soluble after heating at 121 °C for 30 min. The collagen migrated on 10% SDS-PAGE with an apparent molecular weight approximately 2.18-fold greater than its theoretical mass, suggesting extensive hydration. Functionally, it significantly promoted the proliferation of human skin fibroblasts (HSF) and immortalized keratinocytes (HaCaT). In HSF cells, it upregulated the expression of COL1A1, COL3A1, and TIMP1, while in HaCaT cells, it enhanced transcription of skin barrier-related genes, including KRT1, KRT5, KRT10, KRT14, IVL, LOR, and FLG. This designed collagen integrates high-yield production, thermostability, and dual bioactivity for dermal regeneration and epidermal barrier reinforcement, showing a promising application for skincare and tissue engineering.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibitors and other targeted therapies frequently cause cutaneous toxicities, impairing patient quality of life and treatment adherence. This study investigated the molecular mechanisms underlying the protective effects of Xiao Zhen Fang (XZF), a traditional Chinese medicine formula, against EGFR inhibitor-induced dermatotoxicity.An erlotinib-induced mouse model of cutaneous toxicity was established. Transcriptomic and serum metabolomic profiles were collected and integrated to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs), metabolites, and pathways. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks, machine learning algorithms, and enrichment analyses were applied, with selected biomarkers validated by Western blotting. To explore the role of PANoptosis, in vivo experiments with the caspase inhibitor Z-VAD-FMK were conducted, and skin barrier-related proteins were examined.XZF reduced the incidence of rash, alleviated erythema and swelling, improved body weight, and decreased epidermal thickness in the cutaneous toxicity model. Multi-omics analysis revealed significant alterations in inflammatory and lipid metabolism pathways. Key preventive and therapeutic biomarkers, including cytokine signaling and stem cell-related genes, were identified. PANoptosis-related proteins such as Caspase-1, Gasdermin D, IL-1β,RIPK1,ZBP1,ASC and MLKL were markedly upregulated in the model but suppressed by XZF pretreatment. Furthermore, XZF modulated expression of TGM3, STAT6, P65, P53, KRT1, and KRT14 to restore skin barrier function. Co-treatment with Z-VAD-FMK weakened these regulatory effects, confirming PANoptosis as a critical mechanism.XZF alleviates EGFR inhibitor-induced cutaneous toxicity by modulating inflammatory signaling pathways, lipid metabolism, stem cell regulatory mechanisms, and PANoptosis. This integrative multi-omics study systematically elucidates the therapeutic potential of XZF and highlights PANoptosis as a novel target for the prevention and treatment of drug-induced skin toxicity.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Accurate distinction between pulmonary metastases of oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) and primary lung squamous cell carcinoma (LSCC) is critical for clinical management, but practical immunohistochemical markers remain limited in routine practice. We screened three public mRNA expression datasets, GSE84846 for OSCC and The Cancer Genome Atlas and Clinical Proteomic Tumor Analysis Consortium for LSCC, and selected six candidate markers for immunohistochemical evaluation in 39 OSCC and 92 LSCC specimens. Among them, keratin 1 (K1; encoded by KRT1) and keratin 18 (K18; encoded by KRT18) showed the most significant differential expression between OSCC and LSCC (both p < 0.0001). K1 was predominantly expressed in OSCC and rarely in LSCC, whereas K18 showed the opposite pattern. K1 showed high specificity (0.989) and an odds ratio of 117.8, while K18 showed a specificity of 0.974 and an odds ratio of 59.1. Receiver operating characteristic analysis confirmed strong discriminatory performance for K1 (AUC, 0.865) and K18 (AUC, 0.872). In four whole-exome sequencing-confirmed pairs of primary OSCC and lung metastases, staining patterns for both markers were concordant between the primary oral tumors and pulmonary lesions. These findings support K1 and K18 as practical markers for distinguishing pulmonary metastases of OSCC from primary LSCC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Alectinib serves as an indispensable treatment for ALK (ALK receptor tyrosine kinase)-positive non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), yet its hepatotoxicity and dermatotoxicity pose significant clinical concerns due to poorly understood mechanisms. This study demonstrated that alectinib-induced dermatotoxicity was secondary to hepatotoxicity. Integrated multi-omics analysis revealed that alectinib triggered excessive macroautophagic/autophagic degradation of hepatic BTD (biotinidase), causing systemic biotin deficiency that drove both hepatocyte apoptosis and skin barrier dysfunction. Mechanistically, we discovered increased phosphorylation of NBR1 at Ser656, a previously uncharacterized site, which conferred protein stability and contributed to selective BTD degradation. Importantly, exogenous biotin supplementation concurrently mitigated alectinib-induced hepatotoxicity and dermatotoxicity, providing a strategy for safer clinical application. These results uncovered a novel paradigm in drug-induced multi-organ toxicity, in which dysregulated inter-organ crosstalk served as a central mechanistic element.Abbreviations: AAV: adeno-associated virus; ALK: ALK receptor tyrosine kinase; BTD: biotinidase; c-CASP3: cleaved CASP3; c-PARP: cleaved poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase; CQ: chloroquine; DAPI: 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole; DHE: dihydroethidium; ELISA: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; GOT1/AST: glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase 1; GPT/ALT: glutamic--pyruvic transaminase; GSEA: gene set enrichment analysis; H&E: hematoxylin and eosin; HPH: human primary hepatocyte; HRP: horseradish peroxidase; KEGG: Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes; KRT1: keratin 1; KRT5: keratin 5; KRT10: keratin 10; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MPHs: mouse primary hepatocytes; MSEA: metabolite set enrichment analysis; OCR: oxygen consumption rates; PBS: phosphate-buffered saline; PCA: principal component analysis; PLS-DA: partial least squares discriminant analysis; PTMs: post-translational modifications; ROS: reactive oxygen species; RSD: relative standard deviation; SD: standard deviation; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; SRB: sulforhodamine B; TBIL: total bilirubin; TUNEL: terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42047210
Skipped: PubMed ID 42562226 is a review article
Although intravascular lithotripsy (IVL) has proven effective in facilitating luminal expansion through calcification modification, its effectiveness in luminal expansion across different coronary morphologies remains poorly understood.The authors sought to identify predictive lumen and calcium morphologies for luminal expansion following IVL through artificial intelligence-enhanced image analysis.A total of 134 patients with varying degrees of coronary artery calcification were included. Optical coherence tomography before IVL and after stent deployment were analyzed. Using a deep-learning approach, the predictive value of pre-IVL lumen and calcium morphologies that capture structural complexity beyond basic geometric dimensions for predicting poststenting luminal expansion was comprehensively evaluated. The impact of morphological predictors was analyzed using linear regression.The prediction performance for luminal expansion following IVL was significantly improved above conventional geometric dimensions by incorporating comprehensive morphological features at both frame (adjusted R2 = 0.717 ± 0.008 vs 0.581 ± 0.016, P < 0.001; root mean square error = 0.095 ± 0.004 vs 0.133 ± 0.007, P < 0.001) and lesion levels (adjusted R2 = 0.721 ± 0.010 vs 0.582 ± 0.018, P < 0.001; root mean square error = 0.093 ± 0.009 vs 0.135 ± 0.021, P < 0.001). Morphological descriptors that capture intricate anatomical structural variations, including lumen and calcium circularity, eccentricity of vessel wall, and balance of calcium to lumen area, were identified as significant predictors for poststenting luminal expansion (P < 0.001). Procedural parameters including maximum stent diameter and IVL catheter size were associated with poststenting luminal expansion (P < 0.001).A deep learning-based approach enhances the predictability of IVL effectiveness in luminal expansion by capturing preprocedural morphological complexities beyond conventional dimensions, supporting personalized procedural planning. Further prospective validation is warranted to confirm its generalizability and clinical impact.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42559651 is a review article
Severely calcified coronary lesions complicate percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) by impairing device delivery and stent expansion, often necessitating advanced plaque-modification strategies.Three patients with calcified left anterior descending artery disease underwent intravascular ultrasound (IVUS)-guided PCI with orbital atherectomy (OA), intravascular lithotripsy (IVL), and balloon dilation. In patient 1, a balloon-uncrossable lesion was treated with OA, followed by IVL when balloon dog-boning suggested residual deep calcium. In patient 2, OA-related dissection and slow flow were managed with provisional stenting, followed by IVL for persistent proximal calcium-related resistance. In patient 3, Ellis type III coronary perforation during postatherectomy balloon dilation was sealed with a covered stent, followed by IVL for proximal lesion preparation. Angiographic and IVUS assessments showed stent expansion and apposition in patients, with no adverse events during the 5-month follow-up.These cases illustrate the feasibility of an IVUS-guided escalation strategy for resistant calcified coronary lesions.This case series suggests that a stepwise, IVUS-guided multimodality strategy may facilitate successful outcomes and aid optimal stent deployment in complex calcified PCI.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Repetin (RPTN) is a member of the fusion S100 protein family encoded within the epidermal differentiation complex. Although genetic studies have revealed that RPTN is a susceptibility gene for atopic dermatitis (AD), its biological function remains poorly understood. In this study, we investigated the role of RPTN in epidermal homeostasis and inflammatory skin diseases. We examined RPTN expression in normal skin, inflammatory skin diseases, and differentiated normal human keratinocytes (NHKs). Functional analyses were performed using RPTN knockdown (KD) NHK and three-dimensional (3D) skin-equivalent models. Epidermal barrier function was assessed using a lucifer yellow permeability assay, and cytokine-mediated regulation of RPTN expression was evaluated using 3D atopic dermatitis (AD) and psoriasis models. RPTN was primarily expressed in the granular layer of the normal epidermis and increased with keratinocyte differentiation. In the 3D skin-equivalent model, RPTN deficiency impaired epidermal barrier function and induced the expression of differentiation-related genes, including FLG, IVL, TGM1, CLDN1, KLK7, ALOX12, and TCHHL1. Notably, RPTN knockdown significantly increased IL-25 expression. RPTN expression was elevated in chronic atopic dermatitis (AD) lesions and in hypergranular epithelia of psoriasis vulgaris, lichen planus, and epidermolytic ichthyosis. In a 3D AD model, IL-4 and IL-13 significantly induced RPTN expression. These findings indicate that RPTN contributes to maintaining epidermal barrier homeostasis and suggest that it may be associated with regulating inflammatory responses.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Intravascular lithotripsy (IVL) is an emerging calcium modification technique designed to optimize stent expansion in patients with severely calcified coronary artery disease. While clinical trials support its efficacy, real-world data from Asia remain limited.To evaluate the procedural success, safety, and 1-year clinical outcomes of IVL in a single-center Taiwanese cohort.This retrospective single-center cohort study enrolled patients undergoing IVL for complex calcified coronary lesions between November 2022 and October 2024.The 1-year MACE rate was 13.6% (raw proportion), driven by cardiac death (1.5%), myocardial infarction (4.5%), ischemia-driven target vessel revascularization (7.6%), and prior in-stent restenosis requiring repeat revascularization (3.0%). The Kaplan-Meier-estimated 1-year cumulative incidence of MACEs was 14.9%. Subgroup analyses showed significantly higher MACE and revascularization rates in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) (p = 0.004, 0.012) and in non-bifurcation lesions (p = 0.014). Multivariable analysis identified ESRD as an independent predictor of MACEs (hazard ratio [HR]: 5.790, p = 0.004) and revascularization (HR: 7.233, p = 0.015); stent under-expansion was also independently associated with revascularization (HR: 7.030, p = 0.010). These findings highlight the clinical performance of IVL and key predictors of adverse outcomes.IVL appears to be safe and effective for managing complex calcified coronary lesions. Outcomes in this study were influenced by renal dysfunction and stent expansion.
Inflammation is a primary driver of skin ageing. Mussel mucin, a naturally occurring anti-inflammatory protein, suffers from inefficient extraction from its natural source. To overcome the yield limitation of natural sources and to verify the biological activity of the recombinant protein, this study employed synthetic biology techniques to efficiently produce and purify the recombinant mussel mucin Mfp151 and subsequently evaluated its anti-inflammatory and skin barrier repair functions. Using human immortalized keratinocytes (HaCaT), human foreskin fibroblasts (HFF-1), and human monocyte leukemia cells (THP-1) as models, we assessed the skin-repairing, antioxidant, and anti-inflammatory effects of Mfp151 via the CCK-8 assay, qPCR, transmembrane resistance measurement, scratch assay, ELISA, and free radical scavenging assays. In vivo validation was conducted with a zebrafish sunburn model. The results demonstrated that Mfp151 significantly promoted cell proliferation (80 μg/mL treatment increased HaCaT cell proliferation by approximately 32%) and migration, while upregulating the expression of key skin barrier genes IVL, OVOL1, and AQP3 by 2.14-3.88 folds. Mfp151 effectively scavenged DPPH and ABTS free radicals while enhancing cellular antioxidant capacity by activating the Nrf2 pathway. Regarding anti-inflammatory effects, Mfp151 significantly suppressed lipopolysaccharide-induced production of pro-inflammatory factors IL-6, TNF-α, and IL-1β (80 μg/mL treatment reduced expression levels to 59.87%-79.12% of that in the model group), while significantly downregulating the expression of key inflammatory mediators COX-2 and iNOS and their downstream product PGE2 (80 μg/mL treatment reduced COX-2, iNOS expression and PGE2 secretion to 48.91%-67.30% those in the model group.) Zebrafish experiments confirmed the significant promotion of Mfp151 on caudal fin repair following sunburn. The data indicate that the recombinant Mfp151 obtained through synthetic biology techniques possesses skin-repairing functions alongside antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities, thus demonstrating promising application prospects in fields such as anti-ageing cosmetic ingredients and wound dressings.
Calcified plaque (CP) detachment (CD) and calcium fracture (CF) can occur following coronary intravascular lithotripsy (IVL). The extent to which CF alone facilitates stent expansion during CP modification with IVL remains unclear.This study aimed to investigate the clinical implications of IVL-induced CD.Optical coherence tomography was performed to assess coronary CP immediately after IVL in 45 consecutive patients for whom images were available. CD was defined as partial or complete separation of the CP from either the coronary artery intima or media. The study population was divided into CD and non-CD groups.CD was observed in 22 patients (49%) without associated major dissection, intramural hematoma, or slow flow, whereas CF was observed in 35 patients (78%). No significant differences were found in baseline characteristics between the groups. The stent expansion index was not significantly different between the groups (77.6% vs. 83.2%, p = 0.17). Across increasing calcium arc grades, CD frequency decreased significantly (p = 0.01), whereas CF frequency increased (p = 0.02).CD frequently occurs in patients undergoing coronary IVL, with CP separation from the vessel wall proceeding safely and without coronary flow impairment. In addition to CF, CD may contribute to CP modification, facilitating lumen enlargement and successful stent deployment.© 2026 The Author(s). Catheterization and Cardiovascular Interventions published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
The gut-skin axis is an integrated biological communication network linking gut microbial metabolites, immune regulation, oxidative stress responses and skin barrier function. Dysregulation of inflammatory and metabolic pathways has been associated with dermatological disorders including psoriasis, eczema and atopic dermatitis. Postbiotic metabolites derived from probiotics are increasingly recognized for their anti-inflammatory, antioxidant and immunomodulatory activities that may contribute to skin homeostasis. Here, we aimed to investigate the multi-omics effects of probiotic metabolite extracts (PMEs) in an in vitro inflammatory keratinocyte model relevant to gut-skin axis-associated signaling pathways.HaCaT keratinocytes and Human Dermal Fibroblast (HDF) cells were employed as complementary in vitro skin models and stimulated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to induce an inflammatory microenvironment. The inclusion of HDF cells enabled assessment of probiotic metabolite effects on both epidermal and dermal cellular responses relevant to skin homeostasis and repair. For each experiment, triplicate biological replicates (n = 3) were used. The multi-omics profiling included LC-MS/MS-based metabolomics, RNA-seq transcriptomics, qRT-PCR validation, ELISA-based cytokine quantification, oxidative stress assays and integrated correlation network analysis using weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA).After PME treatment, keratinocyte viability was significantly higher (95.4%) compared with the inflammatory control group (62.4%). Pro-inflammatory cytokine levels were significantly decreased (TNF-α: 86.7 to 28.9 pg/mL; IL-6: 79.5 to 25.7 pg/mL), intracellular ROS decreased from 248 RFU to 116 RFU, and antioxidant enzyme activities were restored. Metabolomic profiling showed increased levels of short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) such as butyrate (1.24 to 3.02 µmol/g), which are beneficial to the skin. Transcriptomic and qRT-PCR analyses showed upregulation of genes associated with the skin barrier, such as FLG (1.28-fold), LOR (1.31-fold) and IVL (1.29-fold).Integrated multi-omics analysis suggested that PMEs may modulate inflammatory signaling and enhance epidermal barrier-related gene expression through coordinated metabolic and transcriptional regulation, which may validate the therapeutic potential of probiotic-derived metabolites as candidate adjunctive strategies for inflammatory skin disorders.Copyright © 2026 Zhang, Zhang, Wang, Pan, Xu, Tian and Li.
Saphenous vein graft (SVG) lesions occurring in the chronic phase after coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery are typically characterized by friable atherosclerotic plaques, whereas stenosis due to calcified nodules (CNs) is rare. Intravascular lithotripsy (IVL) is an effective treatment for severely calcified coronary artery lesions, but its application in SVG lesions remains limited.An 84-year-old man with a history of two prior CABG procedures was referred to our hospital with angina pectoris. Coronary angiography revealed severe stenosis in the proximal segment of the SVG to the left anterior descending artery. Intravascular ultrasound demonstrated that a large CN was responsible for severe stenosis at the lesion site. Initial treatment consisted of drug-coated balloon (DCB) therapy following predilatation with a cutting balloon. Because restenosis occurred 9 months later, repeat DCB therapy following more aggressive lesion preparation with high-pressure non-compliant balloon dilatation was performed. Despite repeated DCB treatments, angiographic restenosis recurred 17 months after the initial intervention. Optical coherence tomography (OCT) confirmed a persistent CN, and IVL was performed using a 3.0 × 12 mm 'Shockwave' IVL balloon to modify the CN, followed by scoring balloon dilatation and implantation of a 3.5 × 28 mm drug-eluting stent. Final OCT demonstrated improved lumen expansion compared with previous interventions, with a favourable procedural outcome.This case highlights the rarity of CNs in SVG lesions and suggests that IVL may be a reasonable treatment option for CNs in this setting.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology.
Renal cysts in autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) frequently harbor small intracystic epithelial proliferations that arise in continuity with the cyst lining and are distinct from other recognized proliferative lesions or well-defined renal tumors and lack a formal designation. We aim to provide the histomorphologic, immunohistochemical (IHC), and molecular characteristics of these lesions, determine their incidence, and employ the term papillary hyperplasia (PH), consistent with the recent International Society of Urological Pathology (ISUP) consensus meeting report on precursor lesions of the kidney. A multi-institutional retrospective study of nephrectomies affected by ADPKD was reviewed for PH, histomorphologic features, and clinicopathologic data. PH was defined by intracystic tufted or papillary epithelial proliferations composed of a single layer of bland cuboidal epithelial cells with minimal amphophilic to eosinophilic cytoplasm. IHC stains and molecular analysis using whole-genome sequencing were performed on a subset of cases. Eighty-five nephrectomies from 48 patients demonstrated PH in 88% (75/85) of kidneys. Predominant architectural patterns were tufting (97%), papillary (72%), hobnail (72%), and micropapillary (51%). All PH exhibited low-grade nuclei without atypia, with amphophilic (95%) and/or eosinophilic cytoplasm (63%). The most well-developed PH per case measured 0.3 by 3.1 mm (mean height by width) and occurred within small cysts with an average diameter of 3 mm. PH were positive for KRT7, GATA3, L1CAM, variably positive for AMACR, and negative for CA9 and showed no definitive molecular alterations. PH are common microscopic findings in kidneys affected by ADPKD. PH show a distinct combined histomorphologic, IHC, and molecular profile.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Imbalance of intestinal mucosal immune regulation is a key mechanism in diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome (IBS-D). We aimed to characterize this dysregulation in the intestinal mucosa at single-cell resolution. Intestinal mucosal cells from control and neonatal maternal separation-induced IBS-D rats were isolated and subjected to single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq). Bioinformatics analyses included clustering, differential expression, trajectory inference, and cell-cell communication assessment. We obtained transcriptomes from 4572 high-quality cells, identifying epithelial, stromal, immune, and endothelial lineages. In IBS-D rats, we observed a significant remodeling of the immune compartment, characterized by an increase in monocytes, mast cells, and cycling immune cells, alongside a decrease in T and B lymphocyte subsets. Epithelial cells showed upregulated expression of Krt7 and Foxa3, and downregulated expression of Cst6, Elapor1, and Kcnma1. Cell-cell communication analysis revealed enhanced interactions between epithelial and innate immune cells, involving ligands such as TIGIT. Regulon activity analysis highlighted key transcription factors, including Pax5 in B cells and Mafb in monocytes. Single-cell RNA sequencing reveals that immune barrier dysregulation in the intestinal mucosa of rats with IBS-D is associated with altered immune cell composition, dysregulated expression of epithelial function-related genes, and disrupted intercellular communication, providing novel insights into the pathogenesis of IBS-D. Our high-resolution scRNA-seq atlas delineates the cellular and molecular landscape of intestinal mucosal immune barrier dysfunction in IBS-D, pinpointing novel potential therapeutic targets for this disorder.© 2026. The Author(s).
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic autoimmune disease characterized by persistent synovial inflammation, for which effective therapeutic strategies remain limited. AdipoRon, a synthetic adiponectin receptor agonist, has been reported to possess anti-inflammatory properties. In this study, we evaluated the therapeutic potential and underlying mechanisms of AdipoRon in alleviating RA-related synovial inflammatory lesions. In an adjuvant-induced arthritis (AIA) rat model, AdipoRon treatment markedly improved clinical scores and reduced ankle swelling. Histological and micro-CT evaluations demonstrated AdipoRon alleviated synovial inflammatory lesions, cartilage degradation, and bone erosion. In vitro, AdipoRon dose-dependently suppressed TNF-α-induced proliferation, migration, and invasion of fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLSs). RNA sequencing identified Keratin 7 (Krt7) as a key gene responsive to AdipoRon. Immunofluorescence analysis confirmed upregulated Krt7 expression in RA patient samples. Functional studies demonstrated that Krt7 overexpression promoted synovial inflammation and FLSs migration and invasion, whereas AdipoRon alleviated these pathological processes by downregulating Krt7. Collectively, these results demonstrate that AdipoRon ameliorates synovial inflammation and abnormal FLSs activation by modulating Krt7, therefore supporting its further development as a therapeutic candidate for RA.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Mitochondrial function is essential for biology, particularly in cancer. However, cell-type-specific expression patterns of conserved mitochondrial genes in gastric cancer (GC) remain unclear. We herein raised and tested a novel hypothesis of "mitochondrial conserved gene expression homeostasis imbalance" in GC cohorts with single-cell resolution.This work analyzed an open-accessed scRNA-seq dataset (GSE206785, 24 GC patients, 48 samples) with Seurat and defined 43 clusters grouped into 15 cell subtypes. In parallel, Pseudobulk profiles were generated to simulate bulk RNA-seq. A mitochondrial conserved gene score was computed by Seurat AddModuleScore, GSVA, and AUCell. Mitochondria-related biomarkers were also screened, validated, and incorporated into a mitochondria-dependent prognostic model that was further evaluated.Without considering cell-type-specific expression patterns, Pseudobulk analysis showed no significant differences in mitochondrial conserved gene expression between GC and control samples. In contracst, single-cell analysis found a cell-type-specific imbalance, under which tumor-associated epithelial cells displayed relatively elevated mitochondrial conserved gene expression, while non-epithelial cells showed reduced. Notably, survival analyses identified gene KRT7 and KLRC1 as robust prognostic biomarkers for early GC.Our findings support a mitochondrial conserved gene expression homeostasis imbalance in GC, which is characterized by compartment-specific mtGene expression imbalance. Also, KRT7 and KLRC1 emerge as prognostic markers for therapies aimed at restoring mitochondrial homeostasis in GC.Copyright © 2026 Chang, Hou, Li, Liu, Feng, Li, Qiu, Zheng, Xue and Mi.
Perianal fistulas remain a major complication in Crohn's disease, profoundly impacting quality of life. Although often therapy refractory, strong heterogeneity exists between patients, both in clinical behavior and therapy response. In this study, we aimed to identify biological factors involved in the clinical behavior of perianal fistulas, allowing better stratification.Forty-nine patients were included (Crohn's n = 36, cryptoglandular n = 13). Gene expression was analyzed in internal fistula openings and tracts by RNA sequencing. Data were verified using spatial transcriptomics and functionally in human adult organoid cultures. A gene-module score for keratinization activity was calculated and correlated to the Crohn's TOpClass classification as well as to long-term fistula outcomes.Perianal fistulas were associated with the development of stratified squamous epithelium, expressing specific keratins (KRT5, KRT7, and KRT13). In human organoid models, exposing intestinal mucosa to a pro-inflammatory cytokine mixture partially induced similar changes, supporting rectal mucosal redifferentiation in response to perianal wounding. A gene-module score based on the keratinization-associated markers showed a decreasing gradient from cryptoglandular to mild Crohn-related to severe Crohn-related fistula (0.448 vs. -0.125 vs. -0.448, P = .018). Interestingly, the score was also predictive of long-term outcomes: Patients with low keratinization often showed progressive disease (14/20 patients), whereas this was not seen in the high keratinization group (0/16, P < .001).We identify an epithelial redifferentiation process characterized by a keratinization-associated gene module as part of the healing process in perianal fistula. The extent of the keratinization not only distinguished Crohn-related from cryptoglandular fistulas but also aligned with disease severity and healing potential.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of European Crohn’s and Colitis Organisation.
Here, we describe a protocol for generating Cell Line-Derived Tumor Organoids (CDTOs) from the A549 human lung adenocarcinoma cell line. The protocol involves embedding 2D-expanded A549 cells in Matrigel and maintaining them in 3D culture medium for long-term culture. Recommended seeding density of 500 cells/µL was determined to support consistent organoid formation. The resulting CDTOs were characterized by hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining and immunofluorescence (IF). The organoids maintained high expression of the lung adenocarcinoma markers Thyroid Transcription Factor 1 (TTF-1), adhesion protein E-Cadherin (ECAD), and cytoskeleton protein Keratin 7 (KRT7). Furthermore, tight junction protein Zona Occludens 1 (ZO-1) expression showed dysregulated polarity of tumor organoids. This protocol offers a technically straightforward, cost-effective, and purely tumorous organoid platform for lung adenocarcinoma research. Its simplicity and reproducibility also make it suitable for undergraduate laboratory teaching, where it can help students acquire fundamental 3D tumor organoid culture techniques within a limited lab schedule.
Cribriform morular thyroid carcinoma (CMTC) is a rare neoplasm more common in young euthyroid females, usually associated with familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) syndrome, but also presenting as sporadic cases. These tumors result from the activation of the WNT/β-catenin signaling pathway, usually through germline APC gene mutations in FAP-associated disease, while sporadic cases may exhibit somatic mutations in APC, CTNNB1, and AXIN1. Additional possible molecular events include somatic mutations in KRAS, PIK3CA, KMT2C, KMT2D, TERT promoter or RET rearrangements. BRAF mutations do not occur. We describe a sporadic case of high-grade CMTC presented in a 44-year-old female with a large multilobulated, unifocal mass in the right thyroid lobe. The tumor showed the typical cribriform and morular patterns, high grade features (Ki-67 proliferative index of 20% and foci of necrosis), marked vascular invasion and regional lymph node metastases. The tumor cells were immunoreactive for keratin (KRT) clone CKAE1/AE3, KRT7, and TTF1/NKX2, with aberrant (nuclear and cytoplasmic) expression of β-catenin, but negative for thyroglobulin and calcitonin. CDX2 was detected exclusively in the morular structures. The somatic APC p.(Thr621Leufs*9) oncogenic variant and the somatic TERT promoter - 124 (C228T) oncogenic variant were found, in line with the tumor type and tumor grade respectively; but, for the first time, EWSR1 gene rearrangement was also detected, expanding the molecular spectrum of this uncommon entity.© 2026. The Author(s).
Hypertrophic scars are characterized by excessive collagen deposition, fibrotic remodeling, and functional impairment. However, the ability of current models is limited in recapitulating human pathology. This study presents a novel approach using induced pluripotent stem cell-derived scar organoids to model hypertrophic scar characteristics in vitro. Following established protocols, human pluripotent stem cells were differentiated into skin organoids and induced fibrotic transformation by treatment with TGF-β1 (10 ng/mL) and hypoxia (5% O2) from day 45 onward. Scar organoids exhibited significant contraction and increased collagen I deposition compared with skin organoids. Immunofluorescence analysis showed reduced LHX2 expression, indicating loss of hair follicle development, while collagen I expression was significantly elevated. Dark-field imaging revealed marked morphological divergence between skin and scar organoids. RNA sequencing revealed distinct transcriptomic profiles. Expression of hair follicle-associated gene families (KRT and KRTAP) was upregulated in scar organoids, whereas epidermal structure-related genes (KRT4, KRT7, CLDN7, and WNT7) were downregulated. These findings demonstrate that iPSC-derived scar organoids successfully recapitulate key features of human hypertrophic scars, including excessive collagen production, loss of skin appendage development, and contractile behavior. This platform offers potential for future applications in drug screening, precision medicine, and understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying scar formation.
Papillary architecture is rare in FLCN-mutated renal epithelial neoplasms in Birt-Hogg-Dubé syndrome. We report a papillary-predominant FLCN-mutated renal epithelial neoplasm in a 79-year-old woman with known Birt-Hogg-Dubé syndrome and a pathogenic germline FLCN frameshift mutation, who presented with bilateral renal masses and underwent right partial nephrectomy. Gross examination revealed a 2.5 cm well-circumscribed yellow mass confined to the kidney (pT1a). Histologically, the tumor demonstrated predominantly papillary architecture with focal cystic change and rare nested oncocytic cells at the periphery. Fibrovascular cores were lined by oncocytic cells admixed with clear cells, the latter more prominent along the apical surface. Tumor cells showed round to oval nuclei with prominent nucleoli, focal coarse eosinophilic cytoplasmic granules, multifocal nuclear palisading, and rare multinucleated cells. The background renal parenchyma contained cysts lined by hobnail oncocytic cells with focal clear cell change. The tumor was positive for PAX8, AMACR, GPNMB, and cathepsin K, and negative for KIT, KRT7, and CA9, with diffuse weak-to-moderate TFE3 staining. The clinical history, morphology, and immunophenotype support a diagnosis of FLCN-mutated renal epithelial neoplasm with papillary features. This report highlights potential diagnostic pitfalls and the morphological heterogeneity of FLCN-mutated tumors.
Keratins (KRTs) are intermediate filament proteins expressed in epithelial cells and serve as diagnostic cancer biomarkers. They serve pivotal roles in tumor progression and metastasis, but their prognostic value in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) and relationship with the tumor immune microenvironment remain unclear. Gene expression of KRTs in The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA)-LUAD was analyzed; candidate genes were selected using LASSO and random forest. An XGBoost classifier with SHAP interpretation distinguished tumor from normal tissues. Prognostic models were developed using 101 algorithms with 10-fold cross-validation and validated in two independent GEO cohorts. Immune cell composition and pathway activity were assessed by CIBERSORT, MCP-counter, ssGSEA and GSEA; the TIDE score estimated potential immunotherapy response. Functional validation of KRT81 was performed via shRNA knockdown in LUAD cell lines, followed by proliferation, apoptosis and migration assays. A KRT-based diagnostic and prognostic signature was established. The XGBoost model achieved high accuracy (TCGA AUC=0.996; GSE31210 AUC=0.860); SHAP identified KRT81 as a key contributor. A four-gene prognostic model (KRT27, KRT80, KRT16, KRT81) stratified patients into high- and low-risk groups. The risk score was associated with advanced tumor stage and independently predicted overall survival (multivariate HR=2.16, 95% CI 1.43-3.28, P=2.0×10-4). High-risk tumors enriched proliferation/stroma pathways (cell cycle, DNA repair, ECM-receptor interaction, focal adhesion, p53 signaling); low-risk tumors enriched immune pathways. Immune profiling revealed reduced T/B cell infiltration, increased endothelial cells and higher T-cell exclusion scores in high-risk patients, indicating an immunosuppressive microenvironment. Higher risk scores also associated with chemotherapy resistance. Functional validation confirmed that shRNA-mediated KRT81 knockdown reduced LUAD cell proliferation, migration and invasion, while promoting apoptosis. These findings link KRT expression to clinical outcomes, the tumor microenvironment and therapeutic response in LUAD, suggesting roles for KRTs in cancer progression, chemotherapy resistance and predictive potential for immunotherapy response. This study provides new insights for prognostic evaluation and therapeutic decision-making in LUAD.Copyright: © 2026 Chen et al.
Type 2 (T2) immune cells dominate the airways of mild-moderate asthma (MMA) patients with a more complex Type 1 (T1)-T2 mixed immune response evident in treatment-refractory severe asthma (SA). We hypothesized that comparing the transcriptomes of the airway epithelium of SA and MMA patients would reveal molecular signatures associated with more severe disease in the context of a complex immune response. Using our novel interpretable machine learning tool, SLIDE, meaningful latent factors (context-specific gene co-expression networks) were revealed that distinguished SA from MMA. Unexpectedly, an aberrant high expression of normally host-protective, membrane-tethered and IFN-inducible mucins, MUC1 and MUC4, was identified in SA. Gene networks in the significant latent factors discriminating SA from MMA corresponded to enrichment of a keratinization program in SA airways. Keratinization was marked by increased expression of the stress keratin KRT16, signifying squamous metaplasia suggesting adaptive reprogramming of the airway epithelium in response to chronic stress. These mucins and KRT16 were inversely associated with lung function in two separate asthma cohorts. Imaging of endobronchial biopsies revealed significantly higher KRT16 protein expression in SA compared to MMA that strongly correlated with MUC1 protein expression. Our study identifies dysregulated host-protective and maladaptive repair responses in SA distinguishing from MMA.
A recent study by Cohen et al. identified stress-induced keratin 16 (KRT16) as an active regulator of skin innate immunity. By sequestering 14-3-3ε, KRT16 suppresses retinoic acid-inducible gene I-mediated type I interferon (IFN) signalling. KRT16 loss in pachyonychia congenita amplifies inflammatory IFN signalling, highlighting the KRT16-IFN signalling axis as a potential therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Palmoplantar epidermal differentiation disorders (pEDDs) comprise a heterogeneous group of disorders characterized by hyperkeratotic thickening of the palms and soles due to pathogenic variants in genes that regulate palmoplantar epidermal differentiation and keratinization. Among these, KRT16-pEDD is caused by heterozygous mutations in the KRT16 gene and may present clinically either as isolated palmoplantar keratoderma (PPK) or as part of the broader phenotype of pachyonychia congenita. This report describes a rare bi-allelic pattern of inheritance involving a presumed loss-of-function variant in KRT16, thereby extending the clinical and genetic spectrum of KRT16-related disorders, and highlighting important implications for variant interpretation and genetic counseling.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42347149 is a review article
The cytidine deaminase APOBEC3A is a major endogenous mutagen in human cancer, yet is rarely captured in bulk tumor RNA or protein profiles despite the prominent mutational scars it leaves in cancer genomes. The origin of these episodic mutational bursts has remained unclear, with prevailing models emphasizing sustained inflammatory signaling. Here, we show that APOBEC3A is induced in a rare subpopulation of cancer cells engaging a transient squamous differentiation program, linking APOBEC3A mutagenesis to lineage-state plasticity rather than persistent inflammatory signaling. Across breast and lung cancer cell lines and patient tumors, keratinocyte differentiation markers, including the stress keratins KRT6A and KRT16, are the strongest correlates of endogenous APOBEC3A expression. These days-long squamous-state excursions explain how APOBEC3A can leave durable mutational scars while remaining largely invisible to bulk tumor RNA and protein profiling. APOBEC3A catalytic activity reinforces selected components of this program through uracil excision and JNK-AP-1 signaling. The squamous differentiation transcription factor ZNF750 promotes APOBEC3A induction during squamous-state engagement in breast and lung cancer models. In established human squamous tumors, however, ZNF750 loss-of-function is associated with elevated APOBEC3A expression and APOBEC mutagenesis, revealing lineage-context-dependent regulation. These findings identify a transient differentiation state as a mutagenic intermediate, coupling cell-state plasticity to cancer genome evolution.
To test the hypothesis that basal epithelial keratin 14 (KRT14) expression and superficial KRT6a and KRT16 expression are increased in urethral stricture disease (USD) compared to non-strictured urethra (NU), and are positively associated with the severity of immune cell infiltration.We used multiplexed fluorescent immunohistochemistry to identify KRT5 (a basal epithelial marker), KRT14, KRT6a, KRT16, and CD45 (an inflammatory cell marker) in NU obtained from autopsy decedents and USD specimens with and without lichen sclerosus (LS-USD) obtained from urethral biopsy and urethroplasty. The relative abundance of positively staining cells was compared with respect to tissue/stricture types and immune cell infiltration using Mann-Whitney U tests and linear regression.We analyzed 15 patients (3 Normal, 6 USD, 6 LS-USD). Expression of KRT14, 6a, and 16 was significantly higher in both USD and LS-USD compared to NU (P < .05 for all). KRT 14 expression was not associated with histologic inflammation in either (P = .995) or LS-USD (P = .672).We identified increased expression of epithelial KRT14, 6a, and 16 in USD and LS-USD compared with NU. This pattern of altered epithelial differentiation in the setting of chronic inflammation mirrors changes seen in response to acute epithelial injury and subsequent chronic inflammation in other organ systems. These hypothesis-generating results suggest further study of the downstream effects of these changes, including increased epithelial permeability due to compromised barrier function.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Dysfunction of vascular endothelial cells (VECs) is a common feature of both psoriasis and diabetes. Comorbidity of these two conditions increases the risk of diabetic foot ulcer (DFU), yet the shared mechanisms remain unclear.This study aimed to systematically elucidate the shared pathological mechanisms of the two diseases from the perspective of VECs and explore their association with the pathogenesis of DFU.We integrated and analysed single-cell transcriptomic data from skin samples of healthy controls, psoriasis patients, diabetes patients, and DFU patients. VECs were clustered and annotated, followed by application of differential expression analysis, weighted gene co-expression network analysis, and protein-protein interaction network analysis.VECs could be classified into five distinct subclusters. We identified 561 co-upregulated genes in VECs from both psoriasis and diabetes, and 12 core shared genes (e.g., CEBPB, ABL2) were further pinpointed, which were highly expressed in clusters A and P and showed upregulation under in vitro stimulation. Additionally, DFU and psoriasis shared upregulated genes (e.g., S100A7, KRT16), primarily enriched in subclusters A and C2, suggesting their roles in sustained inflammation and tissue remodelling.This study provides an explanation for the comorbidity mechanism of psoriasis and diabetes as well as the risk of vascular complications, laying a foundation for developing cross-disease therapeutic strategies targeting VECs.Copyright: © 2026 Termedia Sp. z o. o.
Silk sericin, a hydrophilic protein extracted from Bombyx mori cocoons, has emerged as a promising biomaterial for wound healing applications due to its bioactivity and cost-effective production. In this study, isolated sericin was characterized by Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy and mass spectrometry, confirming high purity with minimal fibroin contamination. Endotoxin contamination was excluded by LAL gel clot assay (<0.03 EU/ml). In vitro studies using human keratinocytes (HaCaT) and rat fibroblasts demonstrated that sericin at 600 μg/ml significantly enhanced cell viability (30% increase, p < 0.01) and accelerated in vitro wound healing (p < 0.001). Real-time PCR and Western blot analyses revealed modulation of cytokeratins 16 and 17 (KRT16/17) and up-regulation of junctional adhesion molecule A (JAM-A), suggesting enhanced epithelial activation and cell-cell adhesion. This response coincided with increased NF-κB and IL-17 expression. In fibroblasts, sericin significantly increased the expression of matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP9) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) (p < 0.01), suggesting pro-remodeling and pro-angiogenic potential. In HaCaT cells, sericin induced a transient increase in IL-1β (p < 0.01) followed by a reduction in tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α) (p < 0.05) and an increase in IL-10 at 48 h. In THP-1-derived macrophages, sericin reduced IL-1β and TNF-α (p < 0.001), increased IL-10 (p < 0.05), and shifted polarization toward the M2 phenotype, as indicated by upregulation of CD163 and downregulation of CD86 (p < 0.001). Sericin showed no antibacterial activity against Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Staphylococcus aureus. Its accessibility, cytocompatibility, and ability to modulate epithelial activation, matrix-remodeling responses, and inflammation position sericin as a promising candidate for advanced wound care strategies.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Background/Objectives: Keratoconus is a corneal disorder that causes thinning and bulging of the cornea, resulting in astigmatism and other refractive errors. Mechanical effects and environmental factors are known to exacerbate the disease, and genetic predisposition plays a significant role in its development. Methods: This study investigated the presence of genetic variants in 32 keratoconus patients. We used a next-generation sequencing-based method, and variant interpretation was performed according to the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics (ACMG) guidelines. Variants were prioritized based on multiple criteria, including population frequency data from the Genome Aggregation Database (gnomAD) (minor allele frequency < 1%), variant type and predicted functional effect, gene-disease association, inheritance pattern, phenotypic relevance, and in silico prediction tools. Results: Thirteen variants were identified in 11 patients (34.3%). Two patients carried variants in two different genes, raising the possibility of oligogenic contributions. Ten variants (76.9%) were novel. The variants were detected in 12 genes, namely ADAMTS18, BEST1, CHST6, COL17A1, CYP1B1, KRT3, PAX6, SLC4A11, TACSTD2, UBIAD1, VSX1, and ZNF469. No association was observed between detected variants and patient age. Conclusions: Our findings demonstrate a substantial proportion of novel variants and support the genetic heterogeneity of keratoconus, while also raising the possibility of oligogenic contributions in a subset of patients.
While Wilms tumor (WT) is primarily associated with mutations in WT1, CTNNB1 and WTX genes, these alterations account for only ~30% of cases, suggesting a broader, unexplored genetic landscape.The objective of this study was to comprehensively characterize novel genetic variants in WT through whole-genome sequencing analysis of paired tumor and normal renal tissues.Somatic exonic variants (paired, malignant, and normal renal tissues) in the whole genome of the study cohort were filtered for exonic regions, annotated using multiple prediction tools (SIFT, MutationTaster, Combined Annotation Dependent Depletion [CADD]), and analyzed for functional relevance using cBioPortal and STRING databases.Seventy-one variants in 16 genes were consistently present across the study cohort. Statistically, KRT18, CNN2, MUC16, MUC19, and FCGBP harbor 74.6% (53/71) of the variations identified. Six genes (MAST2, MUC19, KRT3, MUC16, FCGBP, and ANKRD36) were predicted to have a "high" likelihood of being involved in cancer. Twenty-three variants pertaining to KRT18, CNN2, WDR89, MTCH2, DDX11, GXYLT1, and ANKRD36 had a CADD score >20, with 10 KRT18 variants having DANN scores ≥0.75. Significant clustering of variants in "hotspot-exons" pertaining to KRT18 (exon 1), CNN2 (exon 7), and MUC16 (exons 23 and 56) was observed. The implicated genes were found to interact with multiple pathways involved in cell cycle regulation, apoptosis, immune signaling, and developmental processes.This study significantly expands WT's genetic landscape by identifying 71 variants across 16 genes, including several genes with established roles in other cancers (MUC16, KRT18, FCGBP) that have not been previously implicated in WT, as well as genes with limited prior cancer associations. The identification of mutation hotspots and WT-specific gene associations provides new insights into WT development and potential therapeutic targets. These findings warrant further functional studies to validate their role in WT pathogenesis and potential as diagnostic or therapeutic targets.Copyright: © 2026 Journal of Indian Association of Pediatric Surgeons.
Congenital aniridia, a rare disorder caused by PAX6 haploinsufficiency, is characterized by progressive, vision-threatening aniridia-associated keratopathy (AAK) with limbal epithelial dysfunction and chronic inflammation. Downregulation of fatty acid binding protein 5 (FABP5) has been reported in conjunctival cells of congenital aniridia patients and in limbal epithelial cells (LECs) of the PAX6 siRNA knockdown model. We aimed to investigate the effects of FABP5 deficiency on LECs gene expression, without or with inflammatory stimuli. To achieve FABP5 knockdown, human primary LECs were transfected with FABP5 siRNA, using Lipofectamine 2000. Inflammation was induced 48 hours after transfection by incubating cells with 2 µg/mL lipopolysaccharides (LPS) or 1 ng/ml IL-1β. Thereafter, gene and protein levels were examined using qPCR, Western blot and ELISA. Significant downregulation of PAX6, KRT3 and MMP2 and upregulation of KRT12 mRNA level was observed upon FABP5 knockdown (p ≤ 0.022). Under inflammatory conditions (IL-1β or LPS treatment), FABP5 knockdown led to reduced PAX6, FOSL2, IL-6, PTGES2, KRT3, MAPK3 and MMP2 (p ≤ 0.048) and increased VEGFα and CRABP2 mRNA expression levels compared to control LECs (p ≤ 0.034). Following FABP5 knockdown, reduced PAX6, IL-6 and KRT3 protein levels were confirmed in absence of inflammatory stimuli and in cells treated with IL-1β (p ≤ 0.034). Our results suggest a novel role of FABP5 protein in AAK progression by controlling expression levels of genes and proteins involved in LEC differentiation. In addition, under inflammatory conditions, FABP5 deficiency affects key transcription factors (PAX6, FOSL2), genes regulating LEC migration, differentiation and cell maintenance (KRT3, VEGFα, MAPK3, CRABP2), and genes involved in inflammation (IL-6, PTGES2).Copyright: © 2026 Amini et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Purpose: To study the time course of the differentiation process and its regulatory networks in primary limbal epithelial cells (pLECs) using serum-free, low calcium Keratocyte growth medium 3 (KGM3) and CnT-2D differentiation medium. Methods: pLECs were isolated from corneoscleral rims from healthy donors and cultured in serum-free low calcium (0.06 mM Ca2+) KGM3. Differentiation was induced by supplementation with CnT-2D differentiation medium, while control cells were maintained in low-calcium KGM3 medium. Gene and protein expression analyses were performed using qPCR and Western blotting, respectively, at 72 h and at 5, 7, 10, and 14 days post-supplementation to determine the optimal time course of differentiation induction. Results: CnT-2D differentiation medium supplementation resulted in a significant upregulation of differentiation-associated markers, including desmoglein 1 (DSG1), paired box domain 6 (PAX6), keratin 3 (KRT3), fatty acid binding protein 5 (FABP5), cellular retinoic acid binding protein 2 (CRABP2), alcohol dehydrogenase 7 (ADH7), aldehyde dehydrogenase 1A1 (ALDH1A1), with the most pronounced changes observed at day 10 post-supplementation (p ≤ 0.05). Conclusions: CnT-2D differentiation medium effectively initiates differentiation of limbal epithelial cells in vitro. The gradual increase in the expression of key differentiation markers, including DSG1, KRT3, and PAX6, indicates that CnT-2D medium successfully induces differentiation in 2D cultured primary limbal epithelial cells. However, subcellular localization of these markers, epithelial barrier function, and differentiation in 3D models were not assessed and remain to be investigated.
This study aimed to evaluate FOXC1-mediated regulatory mechanisms on gene and protein expression profiles in primary human limbal epithelial cells (pLECs) using siRNA-mediated FOXC1 knockdown under basal conditions and following lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and interleukin-1β (IL-1β)-induced inflammatory conditions. The gene expression related to inflammation, epithelial differentiation, cell proliferation and remodeling, and retinoic acid metabolism was analyzed using qPCR. Corresponding protein levels were assessed through Western blotting and ELISA. FOXC1 silencing significantly downregulated epithelial differentiation markers KRT12 and KRT13 at the mRNA and protein levels (p ≤ 0.045), whereas KRT3 and KRT19 were unaffected. Inflammatory signaling was markedly altered, with a reduced IL-6 and IL-8 mRNA expression (p ≤ 0.029), increased IL-1α expression (p ≤ 0.015), and condition-dependent changes in IL-6 and IL-8 protein secretion. CCL2 was increased at the mRNA level only (p = 0.007). VEGFA mRNA was consistently reduced (p ≤ 0.022) without corresponding protein changes, while TGF-β protein was increased under non-inflammatory and LPS conditions (p ≤ 0.011). Genes involved in retinoid metabolism, including CYP1B1, FABP5, CRABP2, RDH10, STRA6, and ALDH3A1, were significantly downregulated (p ≤ 0.037), with reduced CRABP2 and RDH10 protein levels (p ≤ 0.017) and a decreased FABP5/CRABP2 ratio under IL-1β stimulation (p = 0.006). FOXC1 knockdown affected proliferation-related genes, with decreased FOSL2 (p = 0.048) and increased MKi67 (p = 0.006). FOXC1 silencing disrupts epithelial differentiation, inflammatory signaling, retinoid metabolism, and selected proliferation-related pathways at the transcriptional level, with more selective effects on protein levels. Such changes may potentially predispose the ocular surface to lineage instability, fibrosis, and impaired regenerative capacity.
This study describes the clinical and genetic features of Meesmann epithelial corneal dystrophy (MECD) in two unrelated families and reports new genotype-phenotype associations. Ten patients from a Lebanese family (n = 4) (Family 1) and a Spanish family (n = 6) (Family 2) underwent ophthalmologic evaluation, in vivo confocal microscopy (IVCM), anterior segment optical coherence tomography (AS-OCT) with epithelial thickness mapping (ET-map), and targeted next-generation sequencing (NGS) using a custom-designed 133-gene panel associated with anterior segment dystrophies. In Family 1, a novel homozygous KRT12 c.1181T>C (p.Leu394Pro) variant was identified in the symptomatic proband and his clinically asymptomatic brother, while both parents, who were first cousins, were heterozygous for this nucleotide variant. The proband also carried the heterozygous KRT3 c.250C>T (p.Arg84Trp) variant, which has been previously reported but, to our knowledge, has not been described in co-occurrence until now. In addition, the proband showed a complex phenotype with signs of MECD and epithelial basal membrane alterations consistent with epithelial basement membrane dystrophy (EBMD). In Family 2, four affected members carried the KRT3 c.1492G>A (p.Glu498Lys) variant in heterozygosity, which has been previously described. The elderly members affected showed typical signs of MECD and EBMD. To our knowledge, these concomitant alterations have not been previously described with genetical confirmation. In conclusion, this study provides the first evidence that the co-occurrence of variants in two Meesmann corneal dystrophy-associated genes (KRT3 and KRT12) can jointly account for the disease phenotype. We also highlight the association of MECD with EBMD in both families. Characterization using IVCM and AS-OCT ET-Map provides a deeper understanding of the morphological changes and phenotypic variability in MECD, confirming the utility of this multimodal imaging approach for diagnosis and management.
The differential diagnosis between Tuberculosis (TB) and Non-tuberculous Mycobacteria (NTM) has historically been constrained by the inadequate sensitivity and specificity of current diagnostic methods. Furthermore, distinguishing between Active Tuberculosis (ATB) and Latent Tuberculosis Infection (LTBI) poses significant challenges. This study aims to develop a molecular differentiation system for ATB, LTBI, and NTM by integrating plasma proteomics with multi-dimensional analytical techniques, while also exploring key biomarkers associated with disease progression and treatment response.Using label-free quantitative technology, we conducted a plasma proteomics analysis across five groups: ATB, LTBI, NTM, Cured Patients (CPs), and Healthy Donors (HD). Differentially Expressed Proteins (DEPs) were identified through screening (FC > 1.5 or <0.67, P < 0.05), followed by Gene Ontology/KEGG pathway enrichment, STRING interaction network, and Mfuzz dynamic clustering analysis to systematically elucidate molecular characteristics. Experimental data were validated through a multidimensional quality control system (Pearson correlation coefficient, peptide distribution, molecular weight distribution, etc.). Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was employed to detect the plasma expression levels of target proteins across the groups and to facilitate comparisons.This study identified 1,338 non-redundant proteins across five cohorts. Comparative analysis revealed 142 DEPs across the three comparative groups (ATB, LTBI, and NTM), which were primarily localized in the extracellular domain. Key findings include: 27 DEPs in the ATB-LTBI group, primarily enriched in inflammatory responses (such as A2M, IL-1R2) and epithelial barrier functions (TGM3, KRT3); 69 DEPs in the ATB-NTM group, characterized by significant changes in immunoglobulin light chains (IGLV2-11) and innate immune effector molecules (S100A8); 46 DEPs in the NTM-LTBI group, closely related to lipid metabolism (APOC3) and extracellular matrix remodeling (FN1). KEGG pathway analysis revealed that DEPs in the ATB-LTBI group were enriched in nitrogen metabolism pathways, those in the ATB-NTM group were associated with thyroid hormone synthesis, and the NTM-LTBI group was involved in phagosome function. Dynamic clustering results showed six treatment response modules: Cluster 1/2 (riboflavin metabolism, complement coagulation pathway) were activated post-treatment, Cluster 3/4 (proteasome, cardiac signaling pathway) exhibited partial reversal in expression, and Cluster 5/6 (platelet activation, cytoskeleton) showed delayed regression. Research confirmed 10 differential proteins between the ATB-CPs and ATB-HD groups, including S100A8, LTA4H, and DEFA1B, which constitute a molecular fingerprint specific to ATB. ELISA validation confirmed significantly elevated S100A8 and GPX3 in ATB group, while NTM group showed higher FGB and lower ATRN levels.This study systematically reveals the plasma proteomic characteristics under infection statuses caused by different mycobacteria. A discrimination framework for ATB/LTBI/NTM was constructed based on disease-specific differential proteins, overcoming the limitations of traditional diagnostic techniques in distinguishing infection states. Through dynamic analysis of six temporal therapeutic modules, the reprogramming patterns of the host protein network during tuberculosis treatment were elucidated. This research lays a multidimensional molecular foundation for the precise typing, personalized treatment, and prognostic evaluation of mycobacterial infections.Copyright: © 2025 Hu et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Progressive aniridia associated keratopathy is worsening visual acuity of congenital aniridia subjects lifelong. Restoration of PAX6 expression in PAX6 haploinsufficient limbal epithelial cells could be one therapeutic option. In a previous study using aniridia-like CRISPR/Cas9 genome-edited corneal epithelial cells, the antipsychotic drugs duloxetine and ritanserin increased PAX6 mRNA and protein expression. Our purpose was to investigate the effect of duloxetine and ritanserin on cultured primary limbal epithelial cells (pLECs) without and with PAX6 knockdown. pLECs were isolated from 11 aniridia patients and corneoscleral rims of 8 healthy human donors and were treated with 5 µM duloxetine or ritanserin for 24 hours. In addition, pLECs were transfected with small interfering RNA (siRNA) (PAX6 knockdown) in the siRNA-based aniridia cell model and were also treated by 5 µM duloxetine or ritanserin for 24 hours. Gene and protein expression were analyzed using qPCR and Western blot. In both primary aniridia limbal epithelial cells and the siRNA-based aniridia cell model, the expression of PAX6 at the transcriptional or translational level did not show significant changes through duloxetine or ritanserin treatment (p > 0.5). The target genes of PAX6 such as KRT3, KRT12, DSG1, ALDH1A1, ADH7, FABP5, ABCG2 also did not change significantly (p ≥ 0.2). Our study shows that primary cultures of limbal epithelial cells from both aniridia patients and healthy donors were unresponsive to drug treatment. Therefore, our data suggest that different aniridia cell models or cell culture conditions exhibit varying responses to duloxetine and ritanserin. The use of in vivo models could further enhance our understanding of duloxetine and ritanserin treatment in aniridia-associated keratopathy.Copyright: © 2025 Suiwal et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Aniridia-associated keratopathy (AAK) is a progressive condition characterized by conjunctivalization of the cornea, yet its molecular mechanisms remain largely unknown. This study aims to elucidate the transcriptional landscape of AAK by characterizing the gene expression profiles of corneal epithelial cells in a patient with congenital aniridia.Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was performed on epithelial tissues collected from the clear central corneal region and limbus of a 48-year-old female patient with congenital aniridia. The transcriptomic profiles were compared with those of healthy control samples.scRNA-seq analysis revealed that a subpopulation of cells from the clear central corneal region expressed the cornea-specific keratins KRT3 and KRT12 despite a significant reduction in PAX6 expression. These cells exhibited corneal, conjunctival, or mixed gene signatures. Genes associated with wound healing and apoptosis were upregulated in the cornea-like cells from the aniridic cornea, indicating a chronic wound healing state. Elevated KLF4 expression and regulon activity were observed in these cornea-like cells. Most limbal epithelial cells exhibited conjunctiva-like characteristics, reflecting a loss of limbal cell identity.While acknowledging the limitations of a single case study, this study provides deeper insights into the transcriptional signatures associated with AAK using scRNA-seq. We identified transcriptional alterations reflecting AAK progression and highlighted potential transcription factors that may contribute to corneal identity maintenance despite PAX6 deficiency. These findings enhance our understanding of AAK and suggest potential therapeutic strategies to slow its progression.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Studies have shown that keratin 3 (KRT3) expression is reduced in paired box 6 (PAX6) haploinsufficient primary limbal epithelial cells (LECs). The downregulation of KRT3 expression due to PAX6 haploinsufficiency is likely a critical factor in the development and progression of aniridia associated keratopathy (AAK). In addition, the ocular surface of congenital aniridia patients exhibits an inflammatory environment. The objective of this study was to investigate the isolated effect of KRT3 knockdown, achieved via siRNA silencing in healthy LECs, on PAX6 and other related gene expressions, both under normal and inflammatory conditions.To achieve KRT3 knockdown, human primary LECs were transfected with KRT3 siRNA using Lipofectamine 2000. Inflammatory conditions were induced 48 hours after transfection by treating the cells with 2 mg/mL of lipopolysaccharides (LPS) or 1 ng/mL of IL-1β. Subsequently, gene and protein expression levels were analysed using qPCR, Western blotting, and ELISA.Following KRT3 knockdown at protein level, there was DSG1, ADH7 and PPARγ upregulation and MAPK1 downregulation solely at transcriptional level (p ≤ 0.031). Nevertheless, IL-6 downregulation could be observed both at transcriptional and at protein levels (p ≤ 0.003). Following KRT3 siRNA knockdown, LPS induced inflammation decreased PPARγ mRNA level and IL-1β induced inflammation decreased DSG1 and ADH7 mRNA levels without changes at protein levels (p ≤ 0.014). In contrast, in control knockdown LECs, IL-1β induced inflammation significantly decreased KRT3 mRNA and protein levels and IL-6 protein level (p ≤ 0.02).In normal LECs, inflammatory stimuli slow differentiation and simultaneously induce IL-6 production. These mechanisms are absent in KRT3 knockdown LECs. As a result, despite the presence of inflammation, KRT3 knockdown LECs continue their differentiation unaltered while maintaining inflammatory IL-6 protein secretion.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights reserved.
Ion channels possess selectivity filters that are hardwired to ensure the selective passage of ions. Lysosomal two-pore channels are unusual as they are able to switch their cation selectivity in an agonist-specific manner, allowing differential control of organellar activity. TPC2 is permeable to Ca2+ when activated by the calcium-mobilizing messenger NAADP, but largely Na+-selective when activated by the signaling lipid PI(3,5)P2. Co-stimulation increases Ca2+ but not Na+ permeability; however, the molecular basis for these specificity switches is not well understood. Here we show that mutation of TPC2 residues within the distal cytosolic linker, which connects the first voltage-sensing-like domain to the pore, rendered TPC2 largely unable to discriminate its agonists and highly calcium-permeable, even in the presence of PI(3,5)P2. This mutation induced a co-activated-like state by disrupting a network of residues that connects the linker to the activation gate. Such deregulated agonist action increased lysosomal Ca2+ flux and compromised locomotion and viability when expressed in C. elegans. A proximal disease-linked mutation perturbed agonist action in a similar way both in vitro and in vivo. Biased signaling through TPC2 thus proceeds through molecular determinants that are remote from the selectivity filter, affecting Ca2+ permeability, endo-lysosomal integrity and disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
Exposure to cigarette smoke is one of the major risk factors for developing various diseases, such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), cardiovascular disorders, and cancer mediated via cellular oxidative stress and organelle dysfunction. To this end, the current study investigated how cigarette smoke extract (CSE) affects the vacuole structure and function in Saccharomyces cerevisiae as the vacuole plays a crucial role in handling oxidative stress-induced misfolded proteins. Our results indicated that CSE exposure causes transient vacuolar fragmentation peaking at 0.5 h, which correlates with reduced protein misfolding and improved cell survival. However, excessive fragmentation or vacuolar fusion sensitizes cells toward CSE-mediated cellular toxicity. To understand the underlying mechanism, this study provides the evidence of the involvement of PI(3,5)P2-Mediated signaling and phospholipase-driven remodeling of lipid moieties and suggests a role for mitochondrial function in CSE-mediated vacuolar fragmentation. Prolonged exposure to CSE impairs mitochondrial function and thus disrupts fragmentation, the adaptive survival strategy against cigarette smoke (CS). It results in proteostasis collapse, a characteristic shared by many inflammatory and degenerative disorders. Together, this study reveals a previously unrecognized cellular protection mechanism induced by CS and suggests avenues for further investigation for mitigating CS-mediated diseases.Copyright © 2026 Shukla, Sarkar and Sil.
PI(3,5)P2 is an endosomal lipid whose depletion is associated with a variety of pathologies such as neurodegenerative diseases. However, studying this lipid in physiological and disease models has been difficult due to the scarcity of the lipid and the lack of live-cell imaging tools. That is until recently, when a novel PI(3,5)P2 biosensor, SnxA, was characterized. Despite the exciting promise of this new sensor, it was still unclear whether SnxA reported on PI(3,5)P2 levels without bias and how its sensitivity compared to other PI(3,5)P2 biosensors. In this work, we addressed these gaps by using a recruitable PIKfyve construct to demonstrate that ectopically generated PI(3,5)P2 at mitochondria was sufficient to recruit SnxA. Further, we co-expressed putative PI(3,5)P2 biosensors to definitively show that SnxA is more sensitive to PI(3,5)P2. We also validated previous results by showing that SnxA depends on PI(3,5)P2 for membrane binding, SnxA responds to PI(3,5)P2 production at endosomes, and that PI(3,5)P2 levels decline quickly when its production is inhibited. Thus, we conclude that SnxA is a robust and sensitive PI(3,5)P2 biosensor that facilitates real-time analysis of this key lipid.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42542403
Class I PI3Kβ is critical in controlling platelet activation and preserving thrombus stability under high shear. PI3Kβ is unique among class I phosphoinositide 3-kinases (PI3Ks) in being activated by Rho-family GTPases Rac and Cdc42, positioning it as a potential key link between Rho-family GTPases and platelet signaling. Here, we combined pharmacological inhibition with genetic approaches to define a direct Rho-PI3Kβ signaling axis in mouse platelets. Platelets from knockin mice carrying two point mutations within the Rho-binding domain (RBD) of the PI3Kβ catalytic subunit p110β exhibited impaired GPVI-mediated platelet signaling, functional responses, and spreading on fibrinogen. Pharmacological inhibition with the PI3Kβ-selective inhibitor AZD6482 demonstrated that these responses largely depend on the p110β RBD. Inhibition of Rac/Cdc42 in wild-type platelets phenocopied the knockin defects, supporting a direct role for Rho GTPases in PI3Kβ activation. Conversely, Rac activation was impaired in RBD-mutant and AZD6482-treated platelets, revealing a Rac-PI3Kβ feedback loop that amplifies GPVI-dependent platelet activation.© 2026 Published by Elsevier Inc.
The exposome has been proposed to have a key role in the development of atopic dermatitis (AD). However, whether early-life infections are associated with AD risk remains unclear.To investigate whether early infection burden and infection subtypes are associated with the risk of childhood AD.A cohort study using data from children aged 0 to 10 years from the 2010 Danish Copenhagen Prospective Studies on Asthma in Childhood (COPSAC2010) birth cohort who were monitored for infection diagnoses, AD diagnosis, Scoring Atopic Dermatitis (SCORAD) index score, systemic antibiotics, and filaggrin gene (FLG) status. Replication was sought in a second birth cohort from the US Vitamin D Antenatal Asthma Reduction Trial (VDAART) cohort. Data were analyzed between January and February 2026.Daily diary-registered infection episodes of cold, acute otitis media, tonsillitis, pneumonia, gastroenteritis, and fever episodes and days until age 3 years in COPSAC2010. Cold, fever, respiratory infection, and fever episodes until age 3 years in VDAART.Risk of AD during age 0 to 10 years using diagnostic criteria with longitudinal risk assessment from a generalized estimating equation (GEE) model in COPSAC2010. Analyses adjusted for FLG variant and systemic antibiotic treatments. Parental report of physician AD diagnosis until age 6 years was used in VDAART.Among 663 children in COPSAC2010, children in the upper (n = 221; 112 males [51%], 109 females [49%]) vs lower (n = 221; 109 males [49%], 112 females [51%]) tertiles of infection episodes and days were associated with higher risk of yearly AD prevalence during ages 0 to 10 years (GEE model): adjusted odds ratio (AOR), 1.61; 95% CI, 1.05-2.47; P = .03; and AOR, 1.69; 95% CI, 1.11-2.58; P = .01, respectively. Each infection episode was associated with a higher AD risk as well, independently of systemic antibiotic treatments and FLG variants. Associations were mainly driven by respiratory infections. In VDAART (n = 707), children in the upper (n = 235; 125 males [53%], 110 females [47%]) vs lower (n = 236; 119 males [50%], 117 females [50%]) tertiles of infection episodes were associated with a higher risk of AD at ages 0 to 6 years (OR, 1.76; 95% CI, 1.16-2.70; P = .01), increasing by each infection episode (OR, 1.03; 95% CI, 1.01-1.05; P = .002).This study found that early respiratory infection burden is associated with AD diagnosis in a dose-dependent manner in 2 independent birth cohorts. These findings suggest a long-term relationship between early respiratory infections and AD that has previously been unclear due to inconsistent findings in previous studies.
The nerve-derived growth factor neuregulin (NRG) plays a role in the regulation of skeletal muscle mass through Akt and mTOR signaling transduction pathways that regulate both protein synthesis and degradation. We previously reported that NRG increases muscle protein synthesis (~20%) in a PI3 kinase (PI3K)/Akt-dependent manner. However, the effects of NRG on protein degradation are still poorly understood and are needed to elucidate the role of NRG in the maintenance of skeletal muscle protein balance.Neonatal diaphragm muscle ex vivo preparations were pharmacologically treated with NRG and pharmacological inhibitors of PI3K (LY294002, 50 μM), MEK (PD98059, 50 μM) or mTOR (rapamycin, 100 nM). Tyrosine release from muscle was used as a surrogate measure of protein degradation.We report that basal protein degradation in the neonatal rat diaphragm muscle is significantly reduced by NRG treatment (19%). Basal protein degradation was increased following treatment with inhibitors of PI3K, MEK or mTOR, with inhibition of each pathway sufficient to increase basal protein degradation greater than 30%. Importantly, NRG treatment in the presence of each of these inhibitors blunts the increase in protein degradation induced by inhibition of PI3K, MEK or mTOR. NRG effects were significantly blunted by rapamycin (p < 0.05 compared to NRG alone), but not by LY294002 or PD98059.We suggest that both the PI3K/Akt and MAP kinase pathways are important for NRG effects on protein degradation, but that mTOR may be a critical modulator of these effects and thus of protein balance in skeletal muscle.Copyright © 2026 Hellyer, Gransee, Sieck and Mantilla.
Background: Congenital ichthyoses are a clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of Mendelian disorders of cornification. According to the 2025 classification, non-syndromic epidermal differentiation disorders (nEDDs) are categorized based on the biological function of the causative gene products. Variants in TGM1 cause a transglutaminase-related nEDD (TGM1-nEDD), typically corresponding to the traditional phenotype of lamellar ichthyosis (LI), whereas biallelic variants in CYP4F22 cause a lipid-metabolism-related nEDD (CYP4F22-nEDD), formerly classified as ARCI type 5. The latter form is characterized by impaired acylceramide synthesis and epidermal barrier dysfunction. Although CYP4F22-nEDD usually follows a persistent course, considerable phenotypic variability has been reported, including milder forms and self-improving collodion ichthyosis. Methods and Results: We report two unrelated Italian neonates with congenital ichthyosis, investigated by targeted next-generation sequencing (NGS). Patient 1 presented with a phenotype consistent with LI and carried compound heterozygous TGM1 variants: the known pathogenic c.1147G>A p.(Val383Met) variant, and the novel c.860C>T p.(Thr287Ile) variant, classified as likely pathogenic according to the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics (ACMG) criteria. Patient 2 presented as a collodion baby and carried two heterozygous CYP4F22 variants: the known pathogenic nonsense variant c.1084C>T p.(Arg362Ter), and the previously unreported in-frame deletion c.543_545del p.(Ile181del), currently classified as a variant of uncertain significance (VUS). Because parental segregation analysis was unavailable, the allelic phase of the CYP4F22 variants could not be established, and molecular confirmation of autosomal recessive inheritance was not possible. Both patients showed marked clinical improvement during follow-up with topical emollient therapy alone. In Patient 2, the clinical course was consistent with a self-improving collodion ichthyosis phenotype. A structured literature review was performed to contextualize the clinical and molecular findings. Conclusions: These cases illustrate the clinical and genetic heterogeneity of nEDDs, and confirm the value of NGS in the management of neonates with congenital ichthyosis. The principal novelty of this report lies in the identification of previously unreported TGM1 and CYP4F22 sequence variants. While functional validation is lacking, integration of clinical and genetic findings with literature evidence may assist interpretation of rare variants and support genetic counselling.
Purpose: To describe the long-term, multimodal follow-up and multidisciplinary evaluation of two pediatric patients with CDH3-related retinopathy, discussing the genotypic and phenotypic spectrum of this rare cadherinopathy. Design: Retrospective observational case series. Methods: Two unrelated children with early-onset macular dystrophy and congenital hypotrichosis underwent a comprehensive ophthalmic examination, including spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT), blue-light fundus autofluorescence (BAF), microperimetry, and full-field electroretinography (ffERG), combined with dermatologic assessment and exome sequencing. Follow-up extended over 4 years in Patient 1 and 15 years in Patient 2. Results: Both patients showed sharply demarcated posterior pole chorioretinal atrophy with preservation of the peripheral retina and stable best-corrected visual acuity throughout follow-up. Microperimetry documented localized sensitivity loss with limited progression. SD-OCT revealed persistent ellipsoid zone disruption, retinal pigment epithelium atrophy, and outer retinal tubulations. Dermatologic evaluation confirmed congenital hypotrichosis without nail abnormalities; one patient exhibited mild fifth finger clinodactyly. Genetic testing identified the following two distinct homozygous CDH3 variants: a splice-site mutation (c.160+1G>A) and a frameshift insertion (c.1837dup, p.(Asp613Glyfs*4)). Conclusions:CDH3 retinopathy presents with a characteristic multimodal imaging pattern of localized macular atrophy and slow functional decline associated with congenital hypotrichosis. A comprehensive multidisciplinary approach was essential for the correct diagnosis and a better and more thorough definition of the clinical presentation. Detailed long-term follow-up supports the hypothesis of retinal pigment epithelium dysfunction or maldevelopment rather than widespread retinal degeneration. Recognition of this phenotype is critical for accurate diagnosis, genetic counseling, and future gene-therapy strategies targeting the preserved peripheral retina.
Peripheral neurons can regenerate after nerve injury, yet functional recovery is often incomplete due to non-specific or incomplete target reinnervation. Among sensory neuron subtypes, Aβ low-threshold mechanoreceptors (Aβ-LTMRs) mediate discriminative touch, a modality often incompletely restored after nerve injury. However, the mechanisms governing Aβ-LTMR regeneration remain largely unexplored. Here, we characterised the anatomical and transcriptional features of Aβ-LTMR regeneration after nerve injury. We assessed the extent of axonal regeneration after sciatic nerve crush and the preferential regeneration following femoral nerve transection using Calb1-Cre/tdTomato reporter mice. In both models, regeneration was incomplete, failing to reach control values. Moreover, Aβ-LTMRs showed a modest but significant preferential regeneration to cutaneous rather than muscle pathways. To define the molecular programme underlying this response, we performed ribosome-bound RNA sequencing from Calb1-Cre/Ribotag mice 7 days after nerve crush. Aβ-LTMRs upregulated canonical regeneration-associated genes, including Atf3, Sprr1a, Gal, and Gap43. Comparison with published RNA-seq datasets from other sensory neuron populations revealed only modest overlap, indicating that the core injury response shared between neurons is accompanied by a neuron subtype-specific programme. Together, these findings define the regenerative profile of Aβ-LTMRs across anatomical and transcriptomic levels, revealing the limited regenerative capacity of this neuron subpopulation despite robust activation of classical regeneration-associated genes. KEY POINTS: Peripheral neurons can regenerate after nerve injury, but functional recovery is often incomplete due to limited axonal regrowth and inaccurate target reinnervation. Aβ low-threshold mechanoreceptors (Aβ-LTMRs) mediate discriminative touch, a sensory modality that is frequently not fully restored following nerve injury. In this study, we investigated the regenerative capacity of Aβ-LTMRs using complementary anatomical and transcriptomic approaches. We show that Aβ-LTMRs exhibit limited regeneration after nerve injury, despite activating canonical regeneration-associated transcriptional programs. The results help us better understand how regenerative capacity differs between neuronal subtypes and highlight the importance of defining subtype-specific regenerative responses to improve axonal growth and promote accurate target reinnervation.© 2026 The Author(s). The Journal of Physiology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of The Physiological Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42440815 is a review article
Neuropathic pain is a common chronic pain condition that severely impacts patients' quality of life. While Small proline-rich protein 1A (SPRR1A) is a well-known marker for axonal regeneration, its specific role and the underlying molecular mechanisms in neuropathic pain remain elusive. The present study demonstrates that SPRR1A is significantly increased in the spinal dorsal horn of spared nerve injury (SNI) mice, accompanied by ephrin-A5 downregulation, activation of the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)/tropomyosin receptor kinase B (TrkB) pathway, and enhanced neuronal excitability. SPRR1A overexpression induces allodynia in naïve mice, whereas knockdown of SPRR1A alleviates hyperalgesia and reduces neuronal hyperactivity. Silencing SPRR1A restores ephrin-A5 expression and suppresses BDNF/TrkB activation. Co-immunoprecipitation confirms that SPRR1A interacts with ephrin-A5, while ephrin-A5 competitively binds TrkB to block BDNF-mediated signaling. Conversely, SPRR1A overexpression decreases ephrin-A5 level and facilitates BDNF/TrkB activation. Ephrin-A5 siRNA reverses the inhibitory effects of SPRR1A knockdown on TrkB signaling. Furthermore, intrathecal administration of recombinant ephrin-A5 significantly attenuates hyperalgesia in SNI mice. Together, these findings identify SPRR1A as a key mediator of neuropathic pain that promotes central sensitization by suppressing ephrin-A5, thereby enhancing BDNF/TrkB signaling in the spinal dorsal horn. Targeting the SPRR1A-ephrin-A5-BDNF/TrkB axis may represent a promising therapeutic strategy for neuropathic pain management.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Cadherin family genes (CDH1, CDH2, and CDH3) regulate cell-cell adhesion and epithelial integrity and have emerging roles in tumorigenesis. However, their molecular and functional relevance in Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma (HNSC) remains incompletely defined.Cadherin expression was evaluated in HNSC and normal oral epithelial cell lines using RT-qPCR. Multi-omics analyses of transcriptomic, methylation, mutation, and copy number variation (CNV) data were performed using TCGA datasets through GSCA, OncoDB, cBioPortal, and UALCAN. Prognostic significance was assessed using Kaplan-Meier and meta-analysis approaches. miRNA-mRNA interactions were predicted using miRNet and validated experimentally. Immune associations, drug sensitivity, and protein-protein interactions were explored using TISIDB, GSCA, STRING, and DAVID. Functional effects of CDH1 and CDH2 were evaluated by siRNA knockdown in FaDu and SCC9 cells, followed by proliferation, colony formation, wound healing, and xenograft assays.CDH1, CDH2, and CDH3 were significantly upregulated in HNSC cell lines and TCGA tumor samples, with CDH3 showing the highest diagnostic accuracy (AUC = 0.90). Hypomethylation and CNV amplification contributed to cadherin dysregulation, particularly for CDH2 and CDH3. Elevated cadherin expression correlated with poor overall survival. miR-200a-3p and miR-200c-3p were identified as shared regulators. Cadherin expression also showed associations with immune modulators and drug response. Functionally, CDH1 and CDH2 knockdown suppressed proliferation, migration, and tumor growth.Cadherin genes, particularly CDH3, show diagnostic and prognostic relevance in HNSC, while CDH1 and CDH2 contribute to tumor cell growth and migration. Further studies are required to determine their therapeutic potential.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study aimed to identify novel natural peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) agonists and evaluate the effects of avocado oil unsaponifiable (AOU), Ganoderma lucidum spore oil (GLSO), and Ximenia americana seed oil (XASO) on skin barrier repair at cellular and human levels, elucidating their combined mechanisms. The oils were extracted using molecular distillation, supercritical CO2 extraction, and cold pressing. PPAR activation was assessed via luciferase activity in human embryonic kidney 293 cells (HEK 293T). A blend of the three oils (AGX) was further examined in HaCaT cells using immunofluorescence. A three-dimensional (3D) human skin model was used to evaluate AGX's effects on barrier-related genes (FLG, LOR, DSG1, TGM1, CLDN1, CER). A clinical trial measured transepidermal water loss (TEWL) and stratum corneum hydration (SCH). AGX significantly activated PPARα-LBD and PPARγ-LBD transcription and upregulated FLG, LOR, DSG1, TGM1, and CLDN1 (p < 0.01). In vivo, both 2 % and 4 % AGX reduced TEWL and increased SCH (p < 0.05). AOU and XASO activated PPAR pathway genes (e.g., ANGPTL4, ILK) and downregulated MMP1. AGX repaired the skin barrier via PPAR pathways and may be a promising therapy for dermatological conditions involving barrier impairment.© 2026 the author(s), published by De Gruyter, Berlin/Boston.
Cell-cell junctions (CCJs) are essential for maintaining epithelial integrity, and adhesion-related molecules have long been implicated in breast cancer progression. However, the subtype-specific prognostic significance of CCJ-related gene expression patterns within individual intrinsic breast cancer subtypes has not been systematically characterized. We analyzed 179 genes annotated to the Gene Ontology term "cell-cell junction organization" (GO:0045216) across intrinsic breast cancer subtypes using the METABRIC and The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) datasets. Subtype-specific prognostic CCJ genes were identified using multivariate Cox proportional hazards models for disease-specific survival and integrated into CCJ gene expression signatures. The prognostic performance was validated in an independent cohort (SCAN-B). Elevated CCJ signature scores were associated with poorer survival across subtypes, with particularly strong effects in Luminal B (LumB) and Basal-like (Basal) tumors. Person-year analyses indicated that high CCJ scores predicted an increased incidence of early recurrence (0-5 years) in these aggressive subtypes. Pathway enrichment analyses revealed that high-score tumors exhibited upregulation of extracellular matrix organization and matrisome-related pathways. Single-cell RNA sequencing further demonstrated that LumB CCJ genes (e.g., PARD6B, CDH3) were predominantly expressed in tumor epithelial cells, whereas the Basal CCJ signature reflected contributions from epithelial (e.g., MARVELD2) and endothelial (e.g., RAMP2) cells. Collectively, CCJ signatures stratify prognosis and capture subtype-specific cellular and microenvironmental features in breast cancer.Copyright: © 2026 Ishii et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs), noncoding RNAs that regulate the expression of target mRNAs, have gained attention. Nevertheless, the biological mechanism underlying oogenesis in crocodiles remains unclear. In this study, RNA sequencing was utilized to analyses miRNA expression at 1-, 15-, and 90 days post-hatching (dph) in Alligator sinensis. We identified 92 differentially expressed known miRNAs. Among these genes, 17, 1, and 5 had specific expression patterns at 1, 15, and 90-dph, respectively. GO and KEGG analyses of the predicted miRNA targets revealed enrichment in cell adhesion molecule (CAM) pathways. The expression of CDH3 was significantly higher than that of other family members and was high during the embryonic stage, which coincided with the commencement of mammalian oogenesis. Our prediction indicated the presence of 3 Ca2+-binding sites, 2 cadherin domains, and a cadherin cytoplasmic region in the CDH3 amino acid sequence. This finding suggests a similar cell adhesion function to that of mammalian CAM family genes. IHC analysis revealed minimal CDH3 expression in the germ cell nests at 1-dph. Elevated CDH3 expression was observed in primordial follicles formed via Nest breakdown at 15-dph. Notably, CDH3 expression decreased significantly at 90-dph, but positive signals remained in thecal epithelia of the medullary cavities. The results of lentivirus experiments revealed that CDH3 downregulation suppressed the expression of oogenesis genes (FSHR, CYP19A1, BMP15, and BCL2). Our research highlights the function of miRNAs in crocodilian oogenesis, and CDH3 is proposed to be crucial for reproductive developmental mechanisms.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Editorial Office, Current Zoology.
To explore and characterize gene expression patterns and RNA-seq-derived sequence variation in samples from Chilean patients with low-grade oral epithelial dysplasia (LG-OED) and oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC).Transcriptome sequencing was performed on pooled samples of 5 LG-OED and compared with 5 OSCC and healthy oral mucosa tissue. Subsequently, a variation analysis of the transcriptome was conducted, along with functional classification of the most enriched signaling pathways. Dysregulated genes were found in both LG-OED and OSCC compared to the control groups. The most overexpressed genes were KRTAP5-4, LCE3B, DDX3Y, KDM5D, and MYH2, while the most repressed genes were TYRP1, HS3ST6, SNORA20, KRT76, TGM7, and SOX21 in LG-OED and OSCC, respectively. A large proportion of the identified variants were single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). Based on frameshift effects, missense mutations were the most common. The most enriched signaling pathways in LG-OED were the Hippo, NOTCH, and TGF-beta pathways; in OSCC, the NRF2, TGF-beta, and PI3K pathways.This exploratory study provides an initial molecular characterization of LG-OED and OSCC in Chilean patients, identifying candidate transcriptomic alterations and RNA-seq-derived variants that may contribute to understanding early oral carcinogenesis in this underrepresented population.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Porcupines (Hystrix spp.) are widely distributed rodents known not only for their ecological roles but also for their traditional medicinal applications. In Indonesia, quills from species like Hystrix javanica, Hystrix sumatraensis, and Hystrix brachyura are traditionally used to relieve pain and promote wound healing. Scientific studies have revealed that porcupine quills are rich in bioactive compounds, including keratin, peptides, flavonoids, and triterpenoids. Keratin, a structural protein abundant in epithelial cells extracted from porcupine quill, has been found to support various wound-healing processes, having antibacterial properties, and the ability to induce apoptosis in breast cancer cells. Meanwhile, the vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 (VEGFR-2) plays a crucial role in angiogenesis and tissue regeneration during the wound-healing process. This study employed exploratory structural bioinformatics to study the potential interaction between porcupine quill-derived homolog proteins and VEGFR-2 from our previous published work. Through protein-protein docking and molecular dynamics simulation, we predicted molecular recognition and binding affinity computationally. Keratin type II (P50446), Krt2 (B2RTP7), and Keratin isoform X1 (A0A6P5R3S8) demonstrated the most robust and stable interactions with VEGFR-2. Contrarily, Keratin type II (P04264) displayed comparatively greater structural fluctuations and weaker stability, suggesting less optimal and more flexible binding interactions with the receptor. Thus, this research provides preliminary hypothesis evidence of potential interactions between porcupine quill-derived proteins and VEGFR-2, supporting further experimental studies to determine whether these interactions have biological relevance in wound-healing processes.
Cigarette smoke is the major environmental risk factor for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), driving progressive lung inflammation and tissue injury. However, distinguishing general smoke-responsive transcriptional changes from COPD-related molecular signatures remains challenging.Public time-series transcriptomic datasets of cigarette smokeokemains challenging. and tissue injury. ity, Han-related chronic airway inflammation model (GSE132661) were analyzed. Principal component analysis (PCA), differential expression analysis, gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis, and functional enrichment were performed to characterize stage-dependent transcriptional dynamics. Candidate genes were further evaluated using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis, quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR), and exploratory analysis in a human COPD transcriptomic dataset.PCA revealed progressively increased transcriptomic divergence with prolonged smoke exposure. GSEA demonstrated a shift from early epithelial differentiation and barrier-related alterations to activation of pro-inflammatory and immune migration pathways. Six consistently upregulated genes were identified. Among them, CD177 and KRT85 showed stable expression changes across time points and models, with qPCR confirming significant upregulation after 2 and 5 months of smoke exposure (P < 0.001). Exploratory human dataset analysis suggested heterogeneous and severity-dependent expression patterns.This integrative time-series analysis identifies CD177 and KRT85 as murine model-derived candidate genes associated with cigarette smokeeverity confirming significant upregulation after 2 and 5 tial expression analysis, gene ance in human COPD remains exploratory, heterogeneous, and severity-dependent, and further validation in larger, clinically well-characterized cohorts is required.Copyright © 2026 Long, Qiu, Jiang, Guo, Tu and Chen.
This study investigated the impact of a high-carbohydrate diet (HC: 25% carbohydrate) on skin wound healing in turbot vs. a control diet (CC: 16% carbohydrate). Following 10 weeks of triple replicates of fish (n=40), standardized 8 mm skin wounds were created and healing assessed macroscopically and molecularly at baseline, 1, 3, and 7 days post-wounding (dpw). While growth performance remained unaffected, HC-fed fish exhibited persistent hyperglycemia and hyperinsulinemia, indicative of systemic insulin resistance. Macroscopic analysis showed significantly impaired wound contraction in the HC group at 3 and 7 dpw compared to CC controls. Histological assessment revealed defective re-epithelialization characterized by aberrant keratinocyte migration, suppressed provisional matrix formation, ill-defined epidermal stratification, and persistent goblet cell aggregation in HC fish. Molecular analyses demonstrated HC-mediated suppression of re-epithelialization markers (suppressed MMP9, EGF, FGF2, and KRT2 gene expression; reduced MMP9 protein distribution), dysregulated inflammation (reduced myeloperoxidase and NAG activity; lower IL1B, IL6, IL8, TGFB1, and TNF expression; elevated IL10 expression), and impaired tissue formation and remodeling (downregulated FN1, VEGF, CCN1, LAMB2, and COL1A mRNA; reduced collagen deposition; attenuated CD31-based angiogenesis). Importantly, HC feeding promoted skin advanced glycation end-products (AGEs) accumulation, which was accompanied by reduced mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase (MTOR) phosphorylation, decreased hypoxia inducible factor 1 subunit alpha (HIF1A) protein levels, and blunted post-wounding induction of glycolytic genes, including PFK, HK2, and PK. Collectively, these findings indicate that HC feeding compromises multiple phases of skin wound healing in turbot and suggest that AGE-associated suppression of MTOR-HIF1A-mediated glycolytic adaptation is an important metabolic mechanism associated with delayed healing.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Prurigo nodularis (PN) is a chronic pruritic dermatosis with incompletely defined pathogenesis, and molecular data from East Asian populations are limited. We characterized the transcriptomic signatures of non-atopic PN in Korean patients to identify pathways linked to chronic itch and lesion persistence. RNA sequencing was performed on lesional and non-lesional skin from 17 PN patients and normal skin from 11 controls, followed by differential expression, functional enrichment, and correlation analyses. Lesional PN skin showed distinct transcriptional signatures with upregulation of Th22/IL-22-related genes and IL-22-inducible epidermal stress markers (S100A7/A8/A9, SERPINB4, HRNR), along with keratinization genes (KRT6C, KRT16, KRT17). Itch severity correlated strongly (Spearman's ρ>0.7) with IL-22-inducible stress genes, IL4R, profibrotic mediators (WNT5A), JAK-STAT regulators (JAK3, SOCS1/3), neuromodulatory/epidermal-neural genes (TRPV3), and senescence markers (CDKN1A, CXCL8, PLAUR). Non-lesional skin showed intermediate expression patterns, consistent with subclinical inflammation. Despite the modest sample size and single-ethnicity design, these findings indicate that non-atopic PN in Korean patients is characterized by IL-22-driven epidermal stress, fibroblast remodelling, neuroimmune signalling, and senescence programsprogrammes, highlighting therapeutic targets including IL-31RA, IL-4Rα/JAK1, antifibrotic and senescence-directed pathways.
Psoriasis is a non-communicable inflammatory skin disease that affects approximately 2%-3% of the world's population. Given its high impact on quality of life and the fact that a subset of patients exhibits suboptimal or secondary loss of response to current treatments, identifying new therapeutic strategies is crucial. Proliferation-associated protein 2G4 (PA2G4) is a transcription factor that has been exclusively studied in cancer research, where it promotes cell growth and enhances tumourigenesis by inhibiting apoptosis. However, its role in inflammatory skin diseases remains largely unknown.This study focused on the pathophysiological and immunological functions of PA2G4 in psoriasis and evaluated its potential as a therapeutic target.Bulk, single-cell, and spatial RNA sequencing combined with immunohistochemistry were used to assess PA2G4 expression in psoriatic skin compared with that in non-lesional controls. Functional studies were performed in primary human keratinocytes and reconstructed human epidermis (RHE) models using the CRISPR/Cas9-mediated knockout (KO) of PA2G4 and pharmacological inhibition of PA2G4 with the small-molecule WS6. The regulatory effects of PA2G4 on cellular processes, such as proliferation, differentiation, and survival, were investigated using RNA-seq, western blot analysis, scratch assays, and annexin V staining.PA2G4 was highly abundant in psoriasis, and its expression was predominantly restricted to basal proliferating keratinocytes. Its gene expression is positively correlated with psoriasis severity, the degree of acanthosis, neutrophil infiltration, and genes which are upregulated in psoriasis. PA2G4 KO in primary human keratinocytes activated differentiation pathways while suppressing proliferation pathways, resulting in the downregulation of proliferation- and inflammation-related genes (e.g. MKI67, IL20, VEGFA, and HIF1A) and the upregulation of differentiation and cell adhesion markers (e.g. KRT6C, LCE2C, and DSG4). Functionally, the PA2G4 KO reduced keratinocyte proliferation in scratch assays, attenuated interleukin-22-induced acanthosis in RHE models, and promoted keratinocyte death. Pharmacological inhibition of PA2G4 using the small-molecule inhibitor WS6 similarly downregulated genes associated with proliferation and cell survival.PA2G4 could promote keratinocyte hyperproliferation and survival in psoriasis, thereby critically influencing epidermal homeostasis. Therefore, inhibition of PA2G4 may represent a new treatment option for psoriasis.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of British Association of Dermatologists.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41782735
The hairy ear (Eh) mutation in heterozygous mice (Eh/+) results in elongated and additional ear hairs, along with altered pinna morphology compared to wild-type (+/+) mice. Previous studies suggest that disruption of the Hoxc gene cluster caused by the Eh inversion influences the hair growth cycle.To elucidate the molecular basis of this phenotype, we performed RNA-seq analysis on ear tissues from four-week-old Eh/+ and +/+ mice and compared their transcriptomic profiles.Differential expression analysis identified 2092 genes, and subsequent Gene Ontology (GO) and overrepresentation analysis revealed significant alterations in hair growth-related processes, including the hair cycle and canonical keratinization in Eh/+ ears. Notably, numerous hair keratin and keratin-associated protein (Krtap) genes were markedly upregulated in Eh/+ mice. Validation by quantitative real-time PCR confirmed increased expression of randomly selected keratin genes (Krt34, Krt39, Krt71, Krt81, Krt84) and keratin-associated proteins (Krtap4-16 and Krtap22-2). In contrast, epithelial keratin genes such as Krt2 and Krt14 were downregulated in Eh/+ ears. In addition, genes associated with hair follicle growth, Car6 and Gprc5d, showed elevated expression, while Dab2, a telogen-anagen transition marker linked to hair follicle stem cell activation, was slightly increased at the telogen stage in Eh/+ compared with +/+ mice.These findings provide new insights into the role of Hoxc cluster genes in orchestrating the expression of hair keratin and Krtap genes and highlight potential regulatory mechanisms underlying the hairy ear phenotype.
“Surrogate” definitions of intrinsic subtypes, which imply the Ki67 proliferation marker, help to clinically distinguish luminal breast carcinomas (Lum BC). Here, mass spectrometry–based proteomics can help analyse the protein content of malignant and normal cells and eventually distinguish patient samples from healthy controls at the molecular level. In this work, peripheral blood CD14 + monocyte proteomes of the LumA, LumB-HER2 − and LumB-HER2 + subtypes and those with benign disease were compared to healthy controls (HCs). Among differentially expressed proteins (DEPs), SRSF1, CSTB, KRT2, KRT5, HEL-S-11, APOB, APOE and ITGA2B are considered as significantly changed in all Lum BC vs HCs comparisons (FC ≥ 1.4 or ≤ 0.7, adjusted P-value ≤ 0.05), while the benign vs HCs comparison showed that KRT2 and KRT5 were common DEPs for all disease groups. APOB, APOE, CSTB, HEL-S-11, SRSF1, and ITGA2B had AUC ≥ 0.6 in all Lum BC cohorts and may serve as feasible classifiers of random individuals. ENO1, KRT1, and AIDB were among the top 10 hits in LumA, LumB-HER2 − and LumB-HER2+, respectively, and can also likely be related to Lum BC. GSEA (P-value < 0.05, FDR ≤ 0.25) identified significantly enriched KEGG Gonadotropin release hormone, KEGG Leukocyte trans-endothelial migration, and KEGG Calcium signalling pathways that were all downregulated in LumA. In LumB-HER2-, KEGG Ribosome and KEGG Lysosome pathways were upregulated and downregulated, respectively, while in LumB-HER2+, the HALLMARK MYC-Targets V2 pathway was found downregulated. The suggested study represents a preliminary research and overview of feasible candidate biomarker proteins in peripheral blood CD14 + monocytes of different Lum BC subtypes. Such proteins may reflect BC-related immune responses and therefore could help to subcategorise disease cohorts using a comparative proteomic approach.
Maternal-fetal communication involves complex molecular exchanges that can be perturbed by chromosomal abnormalities. Despite the growing use of omics approaches in prenatal research, maternal urine remains underexplored as a non-invasive source of molecular information reflecting both systemic and pregnancy-specific processes. This study performed an exploratory, label-free mass spectrometry-based proteomic analysis of maternal urine from pregnancies with normal karyotype (n = 15) and those affected by fetal aneuploidy (n = 9; trisomy 21, 18, 13, or monosomy X). A total of 861 proteins were identified across all samples, of which 42 significantly differed between groups (p ≤ 0.05, |fold change| ≥ 1.2). Ten proteins, including TFF1, TFF3, KRT76, CD300, PVR, VWA1, FBLN1, FGA, AZGP1, and MAT1, were more abundant in aneuploid pregnancies, suggesting roles in immune modulation, epithelial restitution, metabolic control, and extracellular matrix remodeling. Conversely, 32 proteins with lower abundance were primarily involved in immune regulation, structural organization, and energy metabolism, consistent with impaired placental and vascular adaptation. These findings reveal distinct urinary proteomic signatures associated with fetal aneuploidy, highlighting biologically relevant pathways that may advance understanding of maternal-fetal metabolic communication.
Previous studies have established a frequent coexistence of obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) and sarcoidosis, yet the molecular mechanisms linking these conditions are not well understood.This study employed integrated bioinformatics analysis and Mendelian randomization (MR) to identify potential mechanisms and infer causal relationships between OSA and sarcoidosis. Genetic instruments associated with OSA and sarcoidosis were screened, and bidirectional MR analysis was conducted to explore the causal relationship between the two conditions. Colocalization analysis was conducted to identify genes potentially associated with both OSA and sarcoidosis. Subsequently, differential expression analysis and weighted gene coexpression network analysis (WGCNA) were performed using data from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs). In addition, eight machine learning algorithms were used to construct a nomogram based on the importance scores of DEGs and to identify hub genes. The results were validated using multiple methods.MR analysis confirmed a causal relationship between OSA and sarcoidosis (p = 0.0018 OR = 1.39 [95% CI 1.18-1.59]). We identified 35 genes associated with both OSA and sarcoidosis, among which 6 were found to be differentially expressed. KRT72, DEFA4, RNASE3, and LTF were identified as signature genes. Based on these genes, nomograms were constructed to quantitatively predict the risk of comorbid OSA and sarcoidosis.This study indicates a causal relationship between OSA and sarcoidosis. The potential mechanisms underlying this comorbidity involve immune dysregulation, inflammatory responses, and altered DNA repair and methylation. Additional contributing factors include dysregulated apoptosis, immune microenvironment remodeling, autophagy, and neural activity.Copyright © 2026 Yi Li et al. Mediators of Inflammation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Lenvatinib resistance is a major clinical obstacle in the treatment of radioiodine-refractory papillary thyroid cancer (PTC). Clarification of the molecular mechanisms of this resistance is of utmost importance to devise effective therapeutic strategies. We investigated the role of Keratin 15 (KRT15) in lenvatinib resistance through comprehensive in vitro and in vivo studies. Tumor and normal thyroid tissues were analyzed for KRT15 expression and correlation with patient survival. Metabolic profiling was performed to investigate KRT15-dependent alterations in lipid metabolism, namely fatty acid oxidation (FAO). Mechanistic investigations explored the interaction between KRT15, Keratin 81 (KRT81), and Diacylglycerol Kinase B (DGKB). The therapeutic potential of targeting this pathway was evaluated using shRNA-mediated knockdown and pharmacological inhibition. KRT15 overexpression was associated with unfavorable clinical prognosis in thyroid cancer patients. We identified that KRT15 interacts with KRT81 to constitute a regulatory complex, which induces DGKB upregulation. The KRT15-KRT81-DGKB axis controls metabolic reprogramming by upregulating key FAO enzymes (CPT1A and ACOX1), resulting in increased cellular energetics and survival against therapeutic stress. Inhibition of this pathway successfully restored lenvatinib sensitivity in resistant cells. This study illustrates a novel mechanism of cytoskeletal proteins involvement in metabolic adaptation of drug-resistant thyroid cancer cells. The KRT15-KRT81-DGKB pathway is a promising therapeutic target, particularly in combination with lenvatinib, for refractory thyroid cancer patients.© 2026. The Author(s).
Mohair, an important source of fiber, is only obtained from Angora goats. The important characteristics that determine the economic value of mohair are fiber diameter and quantity. In countries where mohair is produced, efforts are made to improve these characteristics. It is stated that hair follicle characteristics and/or genetic regulation mechanisms that form animal fibers directly affect fiber production and quality. In this study, it was aimed to determine the genes affecting mohair development in two varieties of Angora goat and the molecular mechanisms affecting these genes. The biopsy samples were collected during three distinct phases of the hair growth cycle: anagen (active growth, September), catagen (transition, January), and telogen (resting, March). The specific timing and location of the biopsies suggest a potential influence of seasonality or a controlled experimental design. RNA was isolated from these biopsy samples, and differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and the pathways affected by these genes were evaluated using the RNA sequencing method. It has been observed that the expression of KRTAP8-1, KRTAP16.4, and KRTAP21-1 genes was quite high in the group in which catagen and telogen phases were compared in Eskisehir variety females. Interestingly, the KRTAP21-1 gene was found to be expressed in four different protein isoforms. Interestingly, the analysis revealed a cluster of keratin-associated protein genes (KRT40, KRT72, KRTAP10) solely differentially expressed (DE) in the male Eskisehir versus Lalahan comparison. This suggests potential sex-specific regulatory mechanisms involving keratinocyte differentiation during the catagen phase, which might be unique to the Eskisehir variety. In the Eskisehir variety, unlike the Lalahan variety, DEGs identified in the anagen-catagen comparison in males were significantly enriched in the Reactome mediated keratinization pathway, and these genes were down regulated. The results showed that KRT and KRTAP genes are highly functional and have different expression patterns between males and females, in addition to being different between the Eskisehir and Lalahan varieties. This study provides valuable insights into the genetic regulation of mohair development, potentially paving the way for targeted breeding strategies to improve mohair quality and production.© Copyright 2026 Korean Society of Animal Science and Technology.
Lung cancer is a highly heterogeneous disease, and the tumor microenvironment (TME) characteristics are closely related to disease progression and treatment outcomes. We elucidated the cell type-specific transcriptome landscape of cancer cells and the effect of the TME on lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD).Single-cell RNA sequencing of the LUAD tissues and matched adjacent normal tissues of three patients in the early-stage via histopathological and immunohistochemical confirmation.The results revealed the landscape of 68,579 cells in LUAD microenvironment, and highly heterogeneous AT2 cells are crucial source of lung epithelial cell carcinogenesis. Genes KRT81, SPP1, PCDH7, SLC2A1, and TET1 were significantly upregulated in tumor tissues and associated with poor prognosis and survival, providing insights for exploring lung cancer biomarkers in future studies. Trajectory analysis identified ERBB4, SEMA4A, GCNT2 and SOX4 as key factors in AT2 cells that may promote cell proliferation, migration, or epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) during the progression of lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD). We elucidated the transcription factor-target gene regulatory network involving NKX2-1 and TEAD1 in malignant tumor cells derived from AT2 cells. The findings indicated that malignant AT2 cells regulate communication between epithelial and immune cells in the TME by predicted FN1-CD44 and CADM1-CADM1 ligand-receptor interactions, which ultimately suppresses the host immune response.This comprehensive single-cell analysis increases our understanding of AT2 cells molecular and dynamics of metastatic lung cancer. In summary, single-cell RNA profiling of LUAD offers valuable prognostic insights based on AT2 cell types and identifies potential biomarkers for therapeutic responses, aiding the future development of LUAD treatment strategies.Copyright © 2025 Cao, Bai, Li, Cai, Cao, Xiao and Zhou.
Metastasis to distant organs represents the most fatal prognostic factor for colorectal cancer (CRC). The distant metastasis of tumor cells results from the collaborative effort of multiple subcellular structures, with dynamic cytoskeletal remodeling underlying this entire process. Here, we found that knockdown of KRT81 expression (shKRT81) inhibited the proliferation, invasion, and migration, while ectopic overexpression of KRT81 enhanced the CRC cells migration. Furthermore, we identified a potential downstream effector of KRT81, ezrin, a member of the ezrin/radixin/moesin (ERM) protein family that regulates cell morphology and motility. Phenotypically, the shKRT81 attenuated ezrin protein expression and reduced the number and length of filopodia in CRC cells, which were restored when KRT81 was re-overexpressed. Mechanistically, KRT81 formed a complex with ezrin, and recruitment of ezrin to the membrane and phosphorylation at the Thr567 residue were significantly abolished in shKRT81 cells. Interestingly, we found that Myosin 1B (MYO1B) might provide the driving force for the recruitment of ezrin. Notably, combinatorial inhibition (shKRT81 + ezrin-specific inhibitor) exerted significantly greater suppression of CRC cell migration and invasion than either intervention alone. Consistently, KRT81 expression was increased in CRC, and relatively high expression of KRT81 was associated with a poor prognosis. In summary, we identified a novel regulatory axis that involves KRT81, MYO1B, and ezrin, which regulates filopodia formation and migration behavior in CRC. Therefore, KRT81 may serve as a therapeutic target for CRC.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Objectives: Genetic polymorphisms in microRNA binding sites (mir-SNPs) may affect rheumatic diseases risk. We genotyped two mir-SNPs in the 3' UTR of SET8 (rs16917496) and KRT81 (rs3660) in ankylosing spondylitis (AS) patients to assess their association with AS risk. Methods: DNAs were extracted from blood samples for polymerase chain reaction analysis. Western blot was used to detect protein expression. Plasma reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels were measured by fluorescent probe technology. Results: We found that SET8 CC genotype had an increased chance of developing AS than the TT + CT genotype carrier (odds ratio, 5.378; 95% confidence interval, 1.130-25.593; p = 0.019). Moreover, the SET8 CC genotype displayed a lower expression of SET8 than the TT genotype. Additionally, increased ROS generation in AS patients was observed compared with controls (23859.055 ± 12283.038 vs. 14758.330 ± 5854.946, p < 0.001). Furthermore, the AS-susceptible CC genotype was associated with high ROS levels (35062.000 ± 17748.785 vs. 22629.463 ± 11002.181, p = 0.033). Conclusion: Our study revealed that the SNP rs16917496 located in the miR-502 binding site in the 3' UTR of SET8 could be used as a biomarker to predict AS risk. Importantly, SNP rs16917496 could participate in the pathogenesis of AS by regulating the expression of SET8, thereby promoting oxidative stress levels.
Sarcoptic mange is one of the most common parasitic diseases in camels, caused by Sarcoptes scabiei var. cameli. Affected animals suffer production losses, and young animals may even die. Although the disease is highly contagious, some animals remain healthy despite being in the same environment as infected ones. The severity of infection also varies among individuals. However, a comprehensive genome-wide study to identify defence-related genes associated with mange resistance in camels has not yet been undertaken. Therefore, the present study was designed to investigate differential gene expression, single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), and insertions/deletions (Indels) associated with natural resistance to Sarcoptes scabiei var. cameli infection in dromedary camels. Skin scrapings were collected from both infected animals and healthy animals within the same herd. RNA isolation and transcriptome analysis were conducted. The parasite-unaligned sequences were further analysed for SNPs, Indels, gene expression quantification, and differential expression. In total, 23,008 genes were analysed. Results showed that gene expression was relatively lower in the infected group (84.94%) compared to the healthy group (87.28%). The number of SNPs/Indels in exonic regions was higher in the infected group (5,538) compared to the healthy group (3,629). Among the upregulated genes, several were associated with inflammatory responses, adipogenesis, fibroblast growth, immune responses, inhibition of TNF-α and C-reactive protein, suppression of high glucose-induced NF-κB activity, apoptosis, autoimmunity, lipid metabolism, adipose lipolysis, blood clotting, cell movement, and tissue remodelling. Downregulated genes in infected animals were involved in processes such as cell cycle progression, locomotion in vertebrates, formation of a rigid and resistant hair shaft, conversion of upstream fatty acids into polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs), renal function and hypertension biomarkers, wool and hair fibre formation, various cellular activities, renal cyst formation, congenital hepatic fibrosis, and immune responses. Further, several differentially expressed genes (DEGs), such as CXCL8, IDO1, IGFBP3, and KRTAP6-2, emerge as promising biomarkers for diagnosis, prognosis, and therapeutic targeting. These findings establish a transcriptomic foundation for future investigations and open avenues for developing molecular tools to improve disease management strategies in camels.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Mugwort (Artemisia vulgaris) is a predominant aeroallergen for allergic rhinitis (AR) in northern China. However, the molecular changes linking local nasal mucosal inflammation with systemic alterations remain incompletely understood. This study aimed to explore the cross-level regulatory network in a mouse model of mugwort-induced AR by combining nasal mucosal transcriptomics and serum metabolomics.BALB/c mice were sensitized with mugwort extract and then challenged intranasally to establish an AR model. Nasal mucosal tissues were collected for RNA sequencing, and serum samples from the same cohort were subjected to non-targeted metabolomic analysis. Transcription factor (TF)-associated analysis, pathway enrichment analysis, and integrative multi-omics analysis were used to identify candidate regulatory factors and pathways involved in mugwort-induced allergic inflammation. Targeted validation of arginine-related changes was performed by measuring serum Arg1 and L-arginine levels, followed by ARG2 knockdown analysis in BEAS-2B epithelial cells after mugwort extract stimulation.Transcriptomic analysis revealed a clear Th2-type immune response in the model group, with significant upregulation of Il13, Arg1, Ccl24 and Il6. In addition, many downregulated genes were enriched in pathways related to ciliary function and epithelial differentiation, accompanied by suppression of structural genes such as Krt25 and Krt71. Gene set enrichment and TF-associated analyses further highlighted cytokine-mediated signaling and potential upstream regulators, including Fos, Batf, and Mafb. Serum metabolomics showed increased 1-methylhistamine and enrichment of arachidonic acid metabolism in mugwort-treated mice. Integrated analysis of the two omics datasets further pointed to arginine-related metabolism as a shared altered pathway. Consistently, targeted assays showed increased serum Arg1 levels and decreased serum L-arginine concentrations in the mugwort group. In BEAS-2B cells, ARG2 knockdown attenuated the induction of IL6 and CCL26 after mugwort extract stimulation.Together, our findings indicate that mugwort-induced AR is accompanied by coordinated local and systemic changes, including immune activation, epithelial/ciliary dysfunction, and serum metabolic remodeling. The arginine-related alterations supported by both omics analysis and targeted validation provide a potential link between nasal mucosal inflammation and systemic metabolic changes in mugwort allergy.© 2026 Chi, Chen, Jin, Sun and Xu.
Androgenetic alopecia (AGA) is characterized by androgen-dependent follicular miniaturization and progressive disturbance of follicular structure and cycling. Local steroid metabolism, including 5α-reductase-related androgen production and aromatase-related estrogen conversion, may contribute to this process.A dihydrotestosterone (DHT)-induced mouse model of AGA was used to evaluate the in vivo effects of Dendrobium officinale polysaccharide (DOP). Dose screening was followed by histological assessment, quantitative proteomics, biochemical assays, multiplex immunofluorescence, and pharmacological perturbation with 17α-estradiol (17α-E2) and letrozole (LETZ).DOP improved hair regrowth in a dose-related manner, and the high-dose group showed the most consistent changes in hair coverage, hair follicle density, dermal thickness, hair bulb diameter, and anagen proportion. Proteomic analysis served to narrow the candidate range and prioritize steroid hormone biosynthesis- and estrogen-signaling-related processes. Quantitative evaluation showed that DOP treatment was associated with lower SRD5A1 expression, higher CYP19A1 expression, lower local dihydrotestosterone and testosterone levels, increased p-ESR1, and increased KRT28/KRT71 expression. Spatial analysis further showed a shift of CYP19A1, ESR1, and KRT28 toward hair matrix- and inner root sheath-associated regions. Pharmacological modulation with 17α-E2 and LETZ altered these DOP-related changes, although not uniformly across all endpoints.In this model, the in vivo response to DOP was associated with changes related to local steroid metabolism, ESR1 activation, and keratin-related follicular responses, together with improvement in follicular morphology and cycle status. These findings support a candidate response framework for further study of DOP in AGA.Copyright © 2026 Ba, Wang, Qi, Liu and Peng.
CD8+ NKG2D+ T cells mediate hair follicle (HF) damage in Alopecia Areata (AA); however, the mechanisms and targets of T cell attack are not yet known. Here, we showed that CD8+ T cells penetrate the dermal sheath and epithelial layers of HF in AA and stop abruptly upon reaching Henle's layer of the inner root sheath. CD8+ T cells assembled a cytolytic immune synapse (IS) with polarization of Lck kinase and convergence of granzyme B. The formation of IS and localization of caspase-8-dependent apoptosis in KRT71+ Henle's layer of IRS pinpointed these cells as T cell targets in AA. Using direct visualization of in situ activity of pathogenic CD8+ T cells within AA-affected mice skin, we elucidated the molecular mechanism and target of CD8+ T cell cytotoxicity within HF in AA.
Distinct coat morphological differences are widely observed in Inner Mongolian cashmere goats, and individuals can be classified into different hair types based on coarse-hair length. These different hair types directly affect cashmere fiber length, quality, and production efficiency. To elucidate the molecular basis underlying hair type differentiation, we performed whole-transcriptome sequencing of skin tissues from Long hair type cashmere goat (LHG) and Short hair type cashmere goat (SHG) at three key stages of the secondary hair follicle cycle (September, December, and March). High-quality sequencing data were obtained from both strand-specific and small RNA libraries (Q30 > 91.8%). Differential expression analysis identified 299 mRNAs, 497 lncRNAs, 217 circRNAs, and 29 microRNAs between LHG and SHG. Multi-layer enrichment analyses (GO, KEGG, and GSEA) consistently converged on functions related to keratin filaments, intermediate filaments, and cytoskeletal organization, suggesting that hair type differentiation is closely associated with hair shaft structural assembly and follicle structural remodeling, and differentially expressed genes were also enriched in canonical follicle-related pathways, including PI3K-Akt, Wnt, and TGF-β. PPI analysis further revealed two major interaction modules dominated by ribosomal proteins and KRT/KRTAP proteins, respectively. Moreover, ncRNA–mRNA network analysis combined with qRT-PCR validation of KRT79, LOC106503217, circ_0284, and chi-miR-221-5p indicated potential regulatory relationships between keratin genes and ncRNAs across different hair types. Collectively, this study provides a systematic resource for understanding different hair types in Inner Mongolian cashmere goats and offers candidate targets for molecular breeding.
Meibomian glands (MGs) in the eyelid secrete lipids that stabilize the tear film and protect the ocular surface. Abnormal MGs are associated with dry eye disease (DED), one of the most common ophthalmological disorders, but the molecular alterations underlying DED remain unclear. For most patients, DED is thought to be caused by the failure of MG-derived lipids to exit the gland due to hyperkeratinization-induced ductal obstruction; however, this theory has been difficult to test due to a lack of mouse models that recapitulate this phenotype. Here, we show that the MG central duct is lined by terminally differentiated cells that express Keratin 6, Keratin 79 and Abca12, a lipid transporter that promotes desquamation in the skin. Targeted genetic disruption of Abca12 in Keratin 6+ ductal cells causes a transient dry eye phenotype that is associated with severe hyperkeratosis and lipid retention specifically in the MG central duct. These findings demonstrate that constant desquamation is required to prevent MG ductal obstruction, and suggest that factors that modulate DED pathogenesis, including age, environment, inflammation and behavior, may converge on Abca12.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
BACKGROUND: The “nine-curve” crimped wool is a key economic trait of Tan sheep, which peaks at 35 days of age and disappears in adulthood. However, the regulatory mechanisms underlying this age-dependent trait remain unclear. This study aimed to decipher these mechanisms by analyzing the skin of Tan sheep across critical developmental stages. RESULTS: We integrated small RNA sequencing, mRNA sequencing, and proteomics, combined with phenotypic observation and histological analysis, to examine the skin tissues of Tan sheep at three critical developmental stages (embryonic day 120, trait initiation stage; 35 days of age, trait peak stage; 24 months of age, trait disappearance stage). Phenotypic and histological results confirmed that this crimped trait depends on medullated fibers derived from primary follicles; with individual aging, the ratio of secondary to primary follicles increases, and primary follicles degenerate in adulthood, ultimately leading to the loss of the crimped trait. Transcriptomic analysis showed that the PD-1/PD-L1 immune checkpoint pathway is the core hub mediating “immune-follicle” crosstalk. Proteomic results revealed a “transcriptional reserve-translational delay” characteristic in keratin genes such as KRT5 and KRT71, confirming that the phenotype at 35 days of age is a continuation of the developmental program initiated at embryonic day 120. Small RNA analysis revealed a "miRNA storm" that peaks at embryonic day 120 (41 miRNAs in total, 40 of which are derived from the MEG3 (GTL2)-miRNA cluster on chromosome 18), and the expression level of this storm gradually decreases with age. Multi-omics integration analysis found that these MEG3-miRNAs can target six key genes (HOXC6, RILPL2, RAB10, ARL1, MX1, and ST7) and are significantly enriched in immune-inflammatory related pathways, suggesting that they may participate in the development and remodeling of wool follicles by regulating immune-inflammatory responses, thereby affecting the formation of the crimped trait. CONCLUSIONS: This study identifies MEG3-miRNAs as key epigenetic regulators of wool crimping and highlights the role of the immune microenvironment in follicle remodeling. We propose that these MEG3-miRNAs likely inhibit immune activation at embryonic day 120 to support primary follicle development, whereas postnatal reduction of these miRNAs relieves immune suppression, triggering overactivation and primary follicle degeneration. This study provides guidance for Tan sheep breeding, reveals conserved epigenetic‒immune synergy in mammalian skin appendages, and offers a model for studying human age-related hair disorders and cross-species age-dependent traits.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41326326 is a review article
Objective of this study is to conduct a genome-wide association study (GWAS) of first-parity reproductive traits in Suzi pigs to identify significant single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) or candidate genes influencing these traits.This research employed technologies including the Zhongxin 50K SNP chip, simplified genome sequencing, resequencing, and the 100K SNP liquid chip to perform genome-wide SNP detection on 898 Suzi sows. Genotype data and phenotypic data were combined to do GWAS, gene annotation, and enrichment analysis.Results showed that this study obtained phenotypes of 33 first-parity reproductive traits from 574 sows. GWAS results indicated there were 10 first-parity reproductive traits significantly associated with SNPs, and these traits were AFS, AFF, NNB, NH, NW, NS, NM, ND, PB, and CCN. These 10 traits were significantly associated with 60 SNPs, with 15 (25%) located on chromosome 2-the highest proportion. The SNPs significantly associated with AFS and AFF were largely identical. Genome-wide variance component analysis revealed that among the 10 traits with significantly associated SNPs in GWAS, there were 5 traits that exhibited genome-wide heritability ≥ 0.01. Trait of NM showed the highest heritability (0.65-0.7). These significantly associated SNPs annotated 20 candidate genes, including ADAMTS19, PROP1, ZNF354B, PCARE, LUZP2, VIRMA, EPHA5, AAAS, SLCO3A1-SV2B, KIF18A-BDNF, SERGEF, DYNLRB2, HNF4G, CATSPERD, HSD11B1L, DICER1, RARG, PCDHAC2, KRT79, and HSD17B2. GO analysis of candidate genes revealed that the top three biological processes were cell adhesion, positive regulation of cell projection organization, and positive regulation of neuron projection development. KEGG results showed the top three pathways were inositol phosphate metabolism, glutamatergic synapse, and phosphatidylinositol signaling system.These findings provide a foundation for the reproductive breeding of Suzi pigs and offer new insights into biological breeding in pigs.
Previous studies in dogs, cats, mice, and rats have established that KRT71 polymorphisms cause curly/wavy coat phenotypes. In humans, variants in the helix initiation motif of KRT71 are associated with woolly hair, a rare hereditary hair shaft disorder. Here, we report a novel heterozygous missense variant (c.1295A>G:p.Tyr432Cys, NM_033448.3) within the helix termination motif of KRT71 segregating with autosomal dominant woolly hair (ADWH) in a Chinese family. Sanger sequencing confirmed complete co-segregation of this variant with the disease phenotype. This finding extends the genotypic and phenotypic spectrum of ADWH.© 2025 Japanese Dermatological Association.
Alterations in the ceramide (CER) profile have been associated with atopic dermatitis in dogs; however, the specific effects of CER subclasses on canine keratinocytes remain unclear. This study aimed to optimize a CER complex and evaluate its effects on cytokine expression, CER synthesis, and skin barrier formation using canine epidermal keratinocyte progenitor (CPEK) cells and a reconstructed canine epidermis (RCE) model. Among various CER combinations tested, only the mixture of CER [NS] and [EOP] significantly reduced proinflammatory cytokine mRNA levels in Staphylococcus pseudintermedius-stimulated CPEK cells. Further optimization revealed that a 4:1 ratio of CER [NS] to [EOP] (cCER complex) markedly decreased CCL17 and CCL22 mRNA expression while upregulating keratin 10, ceramide synthase 3 (CERS3), and ceramide synthase 4, as well as enzymes involved in both de novo and salvage CER biosynthesis pathways. In the RCE model, cCER administration improved stratum corneum organization and increased the expression of loricrin, CERS3, and CER. In vivo application of cCER in dogs accelerated skin barrier repair and improved hair condition. These findings suggest that a CER [NS]/[EOP] mixture represents a promising therapeutic option with anti-inflammatory and skin barrier-enhancing effects for canine atopic dermatitis.
Breeding sheep with superior growth performance and wool quality is essential for the sustainability of the fine-wool sheep industry. In this study, we perform low-coverage whole-genome sequencing (lcWGS) on 3842 individuals from 5 sheep breeds (4 fine-wool and 1 semi-fine wool) and generate a large genomic dataset. By comparing these breeds with coarse-wool sheep, we characterize the genomic landscape and selection signatures of fine-wool sheep. We identify several known functional genes associated with hair follicle development and skin morphology, including EGFR, KRT74, EDAR, EREG, and GLI2. Furthermore, GWAS of 19 traits identifies 156 candidate genes significantly associated with growth and wool characteristics, including LCORL for body size, EGFR for clean wool yield, and PRDM1 for fiber diameter. Notably, EGFR is detected in both GWAS and selection signature analyses, indicating its important role in phenotype formation and historical selection. Overall, our findings reveal the genetic basis of growth and wool traits in fine-wool and semi-fine wool sheep, highlight EGFR, LCORL, and PRDM1 as candidate genes, and provide valuable genomic resources and candidate markers for future functional validation and molecular breeding.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
The interleukin (IL) 23/T helper (Th) 17 axis is the cornerstone of psoriasis pathogenesis, but molecular heterogeneity across different ethnicities remains poorly defined.To comprehensively define the immunological and pathogenic transcriptomic profiles of a Taiwanese cohort with psoriasis.Lesional skin and nonlesional skin biopsies from 11 patients with chronic plaque psoriasis and normal-appearing skin from 9 healthy controls were analyzed via bulk RNA sequencing. Differential gene expression, pathway enrichment (Gene Set Enrichment Analysis), and clinical correlations (Psoriasis Area and Severity Index score) were performed. Serum levels of cytokines were validated via enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay from all 50 patients with psoriasis and 9 healthy controls.Analysis identified 4694 differential gene expressions in lesional skin versus normal-appearing skin. We confirmed robust Th17 upregulation (IL-17A/C and IL-23A). Unanticipatedly, a profound dual immune dysregulation was identified, involving significant upregulation of type 2 (Th2) signatures (IL-4R, CCL17, and TSLP). The IL-36 family was the most highly activated cytokine axis (IL-36Glog2 fold change = 5.5). Barrier function genes (KRT77 and GJB4) were significantly downregulated. Correlation analysis identified IL-36RN and the combination of amphiregulin (AREG)/corneodesmosin (CDSN) (r ≈ -0.9, P = .002) as potential severity biomarkers.The limitations included small sample size and focus on a single ethnic group. Transcriptomic findings represent associations rather than mechanistic evidence of pathogenesis.Psoriasis in Taiwanese patients is characterized by a dual Th17/type 2 endotype and extreme IL-36 activation. This molecular landscape underscores the need for stratified therapeutic strategies in Taiwanese populations.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
This study aimed to explore the molecular alterations in airway epithelial cells in children with wheezing infected by respiratory syncytial virus (WheezeRSV). This study extracted the single-cell sequencing data of two control and wheezeRSV samples from GSE286262 dataset. The monocle2 was performed for analyzing evolution process of basal cells along disease progression. Kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes and gene ontology were carried out to identify the function enrichment of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between WheezeRSV and control groups. Additionally, human nasal epithelial cells (HNECs) were harvested, and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) was applied to detect the expression levels of key genes. Six cell types including ciliated cells, KRT5 + basal cells, TP63 + basal cells, KRT80 + epithelial cells, goblet cells, and club cells. The differentiation trajectory analysis on basal cells indicated two distinct branches including ciliary assembly and keratinization. Then, function analysis indicated that ciliated cells were involved in leukocyte transendothelial migration, cellular senescence and angiogenesis. Goblet cells were associated with IL-17 signaling pathway, apoptosis, and ferroptosis, and club cells were enriched in the apoptotic process and innate immune response. The qRT-PCR results revealed that the mRNA expression levels of TEKT2, SPRR3, ITGB1, CDKN1A, ACSL1, and CXCL8 were markedly upregulated in the WheezeRSV group (p < 0.01). Basal cells differentiated into keratinocytes and ciliated cells as the disease progresses, thereby enhancing defense and repairing the epithelial barrier. Meanwhile, wheezeRSV enhanced the activity of apoptosis and inflammatory response of ciliated cells, goblet cells, and club cells.
Autosomal recessive nonsyndromic epidermal differentiation disorders (AR-nEDDs), also known as autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis (ARCI), are rare genetic skin diseases that lack curative treatments and can only be managed symptomatically. Their study is hampered by the limited availability of biological samples and donor tissues. Artificial skin models offer a valuable alternative for experimental research. Here, we generated epidermal skin equivalents (ESE) using primary keratinocytes from patients with AR-nEDDs carrying pathogenic variants in ALOX12B, CYP4F22, and CERS3, as well as immortalized N/TERT-2G cells. Whereas primary cells undergo senescence, N/TERT-2G cells offer a promising alternative to overcome this limitation. Histological staining and qPCR were applied to assess key epidermal proteins and AR-nEDD-related gene expression in patient- and control-derived models. Patient-derived ESE reproduced the major histopathological features and protein expression patterns characteristic of AR-nEDDs. In contrast, N/TERT-2G-based models showed earlier expression of 12R-LOX, CYP4F22, and CERS3 proteins in epidermal layers compared to healthy donor equivalents. These findings suggest that N/TERT-2G cells represent a reproducible platform for future gene-editing approaches of modelling epidermal differentiation disorders. However, as they do not inherently carry pathogenic variants, they are particularly suitable for gene-editing approaches such as CRISPR/Cas9-mediated disease modelling. Conversely, patient-derived keratinocyte models remain indispensable for validating disease mechanisms and evaluating therapeutic strategies.© 2026 The Author(s). Experimental Dermatology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Ceramides are essential structural lipids whose chemical diversity arises from variations in acyl-chain length and sphingoid-base modifications, yet how these structural features couple metabolic state to growth regulation remains unclear. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the target of rapamycin complex 2 (TORC2)-Ypk1/2 signaling axis coordinates plasma membrane homeostasis with cellular growth; however, the lipid-derived signals modulating this pathway are not fully defined. Here, we establish that the elongation of very long-chain fatty acids (VLCFAs), specifically to C26, is a critical determinant of the nutrient-dependent regulation of TORC2 activity. Based on a molecular caliper model for acyl-chain determination, we show that the TORC2-Ypk1 axis is specifically tuned to detect the successful completion of C26-VLCFA synthesis. Disrupting VLCFA elongation (elo3Δ) triggers constitutive TORC2 hyperactivation and a failure to reduce cell size in response to nutrient limitation. By expressing mammalian ceramide synthases (CerS1-CerS4), we demonstrate that TORC2 nutrient sensing is specifically tuned to acyl-chain length. While CerS1, CerS3, and CerS4 restore the rapid, nutrient-induced downregulation of TORC2, CerS2 expression phenocopies the elo3Δ mutant, exhibiting a total kinetic failure to inhibit TORC2 signaling upon nutrient shift. Notably, cells producing C18 ceramides (GhLag1) maintained size control despite elevated TORC2 activity, revealing that ceramide-dependent signaling intensity and the physical execution of size regulation can be uncoupled. We further demonstrate that while sphingoid-base hydroxylation is required for the execution of size remodeling, it is dispensable for nutrient sensing; sur2Δ mutants exhibited severe size defects despite maintaining statistically normal, nutrient-responsive TORC2 signaling. Overall, our findings reveal a functional hierarchy where the protein-mediated caliper measurement of VLCFA length serves as the primary sensor for TORC2 nutrient responsiveness, while subsequent lipid modifications govern the biophysical execution of cell size control.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Aberrant epithelial remodeling, driven by a shift from ciliated to goblet cell ratio, is central to chronic nasal inflammation. Despite the known role of metabolism in normal epithelial differentiation, the specific metabolic reprogramming patterns underlying this pathological shift of nasal epithelium induced by type 2 inflammatory milieu is poorly understood. This study aimed to delineate the key metabolic pathways involved in aberrant nasal epithelial differentiation.We employed a human apical-out nasal organoid (hANO) model stimulated with IL-13. Integrated transcriptomic (RNA-seq) and untargeted metabolomic profiling was performed at undifferentiated (day 0), mid- (day 7), and mature (day 18) differentiation stages.The IL-13-induced hANO model successfully recapitulated the aberrant differentiation phenotype of nasal epithelium. Multi-omics analyses converged to identify lipid metabolism as the most significantly altered functional module. Specifically, aberrant differentiation featured a reprogramming of fatty acid metabolism, marked by upregulated genes for uptake and elongation (CD36, ELOVL1/5/7), downregulated β-oxidation enzymes (ACADL, ACAA2), reduced acylcarnitines, and consequent-free fatty acid accumulation. This was coupled with a distinct sphingolipid signature: while de novo synthesis was constrained and the sphingomyelinase pathway suppressed, the salvage synthesis pathway was specifically and persistently activated, evidenced by upregulation of key enzymes (CERS3/5, SGPP1/2) and elevated sphingosine, culminating in increased ceramide (e.g., C16:0) levels.Our work elucidates a time-resolved lipid metabolic program, from fatty acid anabolism to dysregulated sphingolipid salvage synthesis, as a hallmark of aberrant nasal epithelial differentiation. This metabolic signature provides a novel framework for understanding epithelial remodeling in type 2 inflammation.© 2026 S. Karger AG, Basel.
Colorectal adenocarcinoma (COAD) is a leading cause of cancer-related death globally, necessitating the identification of new molecular drivers and therapeutic targets. Keratin 80 (KRT80) is an intermediate filament protein whose dysregulation has been linked to malignancy in various cancers, yet its role in COAD pathogenesis is poorly understood. Given the critical need to understand COAD progression, this study was designed to determine the expression and prognostic significance of KRT80 in COAD, its impact on the tumor immune microenvironment, and its functional effects on cancer cell proliferation, migration, and invasion, along with the potential signaling pathways involved.KRT80 expression and its prognostic value in COAD were analyzed using TIMER database, UALCAN database, GEPIA database, and Kaplan-Meier plotter. Immune cell infiltration was evaluated via CIBERSORT and single-sample gene set enrichment analysis (ssGSEA). Somatic mutations were analyzed from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) data. Functional enrichment analysis [Gene Ontology (GO), Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses, gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA)] was performed on KRT80-associated genes. In vitro, KRT80 protein levels were examined in COAD cell lines by Western blot (WB). Stable knockdown and overexpression models were created. Functional assays [Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), Transwell, wound healing] assessed proliferation, migration, and invasion. WB measured STAT3 pathway activity.KRT80 was significantly overexpressed in COAD tissues and high expression correlated with poorer overall, first progression, and post-progression survival (PPS). KRT80 expression positively correlated with M0 macrophage and activated mast cell infiltration, and negatively with resting memory CD4+ T cells and naive B cells. Although KRT80 itself was not mutated, associated genes were enriched in pathways like Wnt signaling. In vitro, KRT80 knockdown inhibited cell proliferation, migration, and invasion, while its overexpression promoted these effects. KRT80 was found to modulate STAT3 phosphorylation.KRT80 is overexpressed in COAD and predicts poor prognosis. It promotes tumor cell proliferation, migration, and invasion, likely through activating the STAT3 signaling pathway, and correlates with an altered immune microenvironment. KRT80 represents a potential prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target for COAD.© AME Publishing Company.
Prior studies in ichthyosis have demonstrated cutaneous and/or systemic immune abnormalities with barrier defects; however, the transcriptomes of the major orphan forms of ichthyosis have yet to be characterized through tape stripping, a minimally invasive sampling method validated in other inflammatory skin diseases. Skin tape strips from 27 patients with ichthyosis (9 with Netherton syndrome, 6 with congenital ichthyosiform erythroderma, 7 with lamellar ichthyosis, and 5 with epidermolytic ichthyosis) and 18 demographically matched healthy controls were analyzed with RNA sequencing. Differential expression was defined as fold change >2 and false discovery rate <0.05. All subtypes shared significant T helper (Th)17/Th22 upregulation (eg, S100A7/8/9, PI3, CCL20), and Th2 products (eg, TNFRSF4, IL13, CCR4) were particularly increased in Netherton syndrome. Tape strips additionally captured common increases in Th1 (IL1B, OASL) and IL4R upregulation in Netherton syndrome, lamellar ichthyosis, and epidermolytic ichthyosis. Although modulation of lipid markers was variable across subtypes, several epidermal differentiation complex/cornified envelope genes were increased in all or most subtypes. Disease-severity metrics were moderately correlated with increases in ceramide synthase CERS3 and Th17/Th22 and late cornified envelope markers. Changes in immune and epidermal differentiation complex/cornified envelope tape-strip markers correlated significantly and positively with those measured in biopsies. Our findings highlight tape stripping as a minimally invasive approach to profiling ichthyosis, which could provide future pathogenic and therapeutic insights.Copyright © 2026 Society for Investigative Dermatology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42544595 is a review article
Rosacea is a chronic inflammatory skin disorder driven by dysregulated cathelicidin processing and excessive LL-37, which triggers a circuit involving Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2)/kallikrein-5 (KLK5)-dependent amplification and downstream mechanistic target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1), NF-κB, and NLR family pyrin domain containing 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome pathways. We hypothesized that poly-D,L-lactic acid (PDLLA) could attenuate this inflammatory cascade by inducing macrophage-derived interleukin (IL)-10. PDLLA increased IL-10 secretion from THP-1-derived macrophages in a dose-dependent manner. In LL-37-stimulated HaCaT keratinocytes, LL-37 decreased phosphorylated signal transducer and activator of transcription (pSTAT3)/STAT3, DNA damage-inducible transcript 4 (DDIT4), and phosphorylated AMP-activated protein kinase (pAMPK)/AMPK while increasing phosphorylated protein kinase B (pAKT)/AKT and mTORC1 activation; conditioned media from PDLLA-treated macrophages (CMPDLLA) restored pSTAT3/STAT3, DDIT4, and pAMPK/AMPK, reduced pAKT/AKT, and suppressed pmTOR/mTOR. CMPDLLA attenuated downstream inflammatory responses, including NF-κB nuclear translocation, VEGF production, and NLRP3-inflammasome-mediated IL-18 secretion. These findings were validated using an intradermal LL-37-injected mouse model. Compared with the normal control/saline group, LL-37/saline decreased IL-10, pSTAT3/STAT3, DDIT4, and pAMPK/AMPK while increasing pAKT/AKT, pmTOR/mTOR, pS6K/S6K, TLR2/KLK5/LL-37, NF-κB, VEGF, and NLRP3 inflammasome/IL-18 signaling; PDLLA partially restored the STAT3/DDIT4-AMPK regulatory pattern and suppressed these disease-associated signals. Consequently, PDLLA treatment led to a pronounced reduction in clinical lesion area. Overall, PDLLA may attenuate LL-37-driven cutaneous inflammation by promoting an IL-10-linked STAT3/DDIT4-AKT/AMPK program that suppresses mTORC1 and disrupts cathelicidin amplification, supporting its potential as an injectable immunomodulatory approach for rosacea-like skin inflammation.
Immunotherapy has demonstrated outstanding therapeutic success in solid cancers by regulating immunity through immunological components in the tumor microenvironment. However, the immunological phenotypes and immunosuppressive processes in glioblastoma (GBM) remain unknown.The relative abundance of immune cells was determined, which was used to classify 167 GBM samples into high- and low-immune subtypes with ssGSEA analysis. Differentially expressed immune-related genes (DE-IRGs) were determined between these two immune subtypes, which were used for gene oncology, pathway network, survival, and nonnegative matrix factorization cluster analyses. Survival-related DE-IRGs was used to create DE-IRG signature with LASSO regression. DE-IRG signature-based risk score was calculated for determing high- and low-risk score groups. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were determined between high-and low-risk score groups, which were used for WGCNA coexpression gene modules analysis. A ggalluvial plot was used to examine the cross-talk between the LASSO groups and NMF clusters. Furthermore, DE-IRGs data were integrated with quantitative proteomics data of human GBMs to obtain key molecules, followed by functional analysis of key molecule in GBM cell models.A total of 115 DE-IRGs were identified in high- vs. low-immune subtypes in GBM. These DE-IRGs were mapped into 6 KEGG pathways, 88 important biological processes, and 25 important molecular functions. Seven DE-IRG prognostic signatures (GBX1, PF4V1, RETN, SOAT2, SUMO1P1, TNS4, and TTC22) based on DE-IRGs were generated via LASSO regression to identify GBM samples as high- or low-risk score groups. This signature was closely correlated with overall survival, clinical characteristics, immune cells, immunological scores, immune checkpoints, tumor mutation burden, gene mutations, and drug sensitivity in GBM patients. The LASSO groups had a substantial correlation with three NMF-based unique clusters in GBM, and a WGCNA of 452 DEGs was performed to distinguish high- and low-risk score groups. Furthermore, integrative analysis of 115 DE-IRGs and 608 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) found a overlapped molecule C4BPA that promoted the phenotype of GBM tumor cells.This study provided the complete IRG landscape and distribution of tumor microenvironment cells in GBM, which are promising indicators of prognosis and survival, and have the potential to monitor treatment schedules.© 2026. The Author(s).
Multiple myeloma (MM) is a hematological malignancy characterized by the clonal proliferation of abnormal plasma cells within the bone marrow (BM). Despite advances in treatment that have improved survival, the disease remains incurable. MM diagnosis requires invasive bone marrow biopsy to quantify the percentage of malignant plasma cells. In this study, the potential of extracellular vesicles (EVs) as a non-invasive liquid biopsy for MM diagnosis and staging was investigated, highlighting the diagnostic value of their proteomic biomarker cargo.Plasma-derived EVs from peripheral blood and bone marrow of 33 MM patients and 12 healthy donors were isolated, and their proteomic content was profiled via mass spectrometry. Biomarker signatures were identified using supervised machine learning to predict monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS), progression to symptomatic MM, and relapse. Their discriminatory power was further evaluated through receiver operating characteristic curve analysis, and complementary performance metrics, including accuracy, sensitivity, specificity, predictive values, and F1 score. Significantly altered proteins were additionally assessed for functional enrichment in relevant biological pathways.The analysis identified a six-protein biomarker signature, forming four optimal logistic regression diagnostic MM peripheral blood models with predictive accuracies of >85% and areas under the curve of >0.91. The signature was characterized by increased abundance of APOC1 and LGALS1 and decreased abundance of S100A7, CD226, ALAD, and KRT78, reflecting immune modulation, impaired immune surveillance, and disrupted proteostatic pathways.The performance of the identified proteins supports their potential as a minimally invasive EV-based liquid biopsy in MM diagnosis and monitoring, warranting future validation.© 2026 Cheryl et al.
SUMOylation plays critical roles in both initiation and development of atherosclerosis. SUMO-specific protease 3 (SENP3), a SUMO-specific protease that targets SUMO2/3 for deSUMOylation, is involved in vascular remodeling and the modulation of macrophage functions. Here, we probed for the role of SENP3 in macrophages in the development of atherosclerosis. Stable and unstable plaques were collected from patients with atherosclerosis. A macrophage-specific SENP3 knockout mouse (Senp3Mac-KO) was generated and performed for a murine atherosclerosis model. Transcriptional sequencing was performed to identify potential mechanisms. SENP3 expression in macrophages was increased in unstable plaques, compared to stable plaques. The mean fluorescence intensity of SENP3 in macrophages infiltrating carotid plaques was positively correlated with circulating pro-inflammatory cytokines, low density lipoprotein (LDL-C), and triglycerides in atherosclerosis patients. Senp3Mac-KO mice exhibited a markedly reduced atherosclerotic plaque area in the aorta, compared to wild-type mice. Knockdown of SENP3 in macrophages resulted in decreased secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines, increased secretion of anti-inflammatory factors, and reduced foam cell formation. Transcriptional analysis identified significant enrichment in Toll-like receptor (TLR4) signaling pathway modulated by SENP3. Genetic deletion of either TLR4 (Tlr4-/-) or Sterol O-Acyltransferase 2 (SOAT2) (Soat2-/-) attenuated the exacerbation of atherosclerosis development induced by SENP3 overexpression. Furthermore, SENP3 regulated TLR4 and SOAT2 expression indirectly via the transcription factor MYC rather than through direct deSUMOylation of TLR4 or SOAT2 themselves. Downregulation of SENP3 in macrophages suppresses pro-inflammatory cytokine release by inhibiting TLR4 signaling and reduces foam cell formation by impeding SOAT2 expression, both mediated by the transcription factor MYC, thereby attenuating the development of atherosclerosis. Hence, SENP3 may represent a potential therapeutic target in atherosclerosis.© 2026 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
The role of disulfidoptosis, a novel form of programmed cell death, in osteoporosis remains unclear. This study aimed to identify disulfidoptosis-related molecular signatures for diagnosis, explore their link to immune infiltration, and validate their expression experimentally.We conducted an integrative bioinformatics analysis utilizing microarray datasets from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO). Analyses included the identification of disulfidoptosis-related differentially expressed genes (DRDEGs), weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), and functional enrichment analyses. Three machine learning algorithms were employed to identify hub genes for diagnostic model construction. Immune infiltration patterns were assessed using CIBERSORT, and osteoporosis subtypes were identified via consensus clustering. Experimental validation was conducted in a RANKL-induced osteoclast model using qPCR and Western blot.We identified 299 DRDEGs and constructed a diagnostic model based on three hub genes (SOAT2, FOLR3, TUBA8). The model showed moderate diagnostic accuracy in the internal validation set (AUC: 0.7-0.9) and high accuracy upon external validation (AUC > 0.9). Immune analysis revealed distinct infiltration patterns and significant correlations between key genes and immune cells. Consensus clustering defined two osteoporosis subtypes with distinct molecular and immune characteristics. Crucially, experimental validation confirmed significant dysregulation of these genes during osteoclast differentiation, with TUBA8 showing a striking discordance between mRNA upregulation and protein downregulation.This study establishes a diagnostic model for osteoporosis based on disulfidoptosis-related genes and provides multi-level experimental evidence for their dysregulation in vitro. Our findings may reveal immune heterogeneity and uncover potential post-transcriptional regulatory mechanisms, offering new insights for precision medicine in osteoporosis.Copyright © 2026 Yang, Chen, Zhang and Liu.
Huo-Xue-Xiao-Zhong Decoction (HXXZ), a traditional Chinese medicine formulation comprising 14 herbal components, has demonstrated significant efficacy and favorable safety profiles in clinical trials for the prevention of deep vein thrombosis (DVT). However, the underlying molecular mechanisms responsible for its therapeutic effects remain to be elucidated.This study aims to investigate the molecular mechanisms through which HXXZ prevents thrombus formation in DVT.The chemical profile of HXXZ was characterized using HPLC-Q-TOF-MS. Therapeutic efficacy was evaluated in a mouse model of DVT (n = 8 per group) and in a TNF-α-induced human umbilical vein endothelial cell (HUVEC) injury model. A multi-faceted approach integrating network pharmacology, molecular docking, and transcriptomic analysis was employed to identify potential targets of HXXZ. Following gain- and loss-of-function experiments, levels of inflammation-related, coagulation-related, and endothelial injury markers were assessed using ELISA, Western blotting, and immunofluorescence staining.HPLC-Q-TOF-MS analysis identified 38 major constituents in HXXZ. In vivo, treatment with moderate to high doses of HXXZ significantly reduced thrombus length and mass, while modulating levels of IL-1β, IL-6, NO, vWF, P-Selectin, FXI, FVIII, TM, PC, eNOS, EPCR, and ICAM-1 in plasma and thrombus tissue. In vitro, HXXZ attenuated TNF-α-induced apoptosis and endothelial dysfunction, and reduced total cholesterol, cholesteryl ester, and free cholesterol levels in HUVECs. Network pharmacology revealed 181 active compounds and 53 DVT-related targets, with enrichment in the PI3K-AKT and MAPK pathways. Molecular docking confirmed favorable binding potential interactions between HXXZ constituents and AKT1, ERK2, KLF11, and KLF15. Transcriptomic analysis identified CD14, SOAT2, and MCL1 as key genes modulated by HXXZ. Functional studies demonstrated that SOAT2 knockdown enhanced the protective effects of HXXZ on HUVECs, whereas SOAT2 overexpression produced opposing effects.HXXZ prevents thrombus formation in DVT through a multi-component, centered on the downregulation of SOAT2 and consequent suppression of the AKT-ERK pathway, revealing a previously unrecognized pharmacological target for DVT management.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Glioblastoma (GBM) remains a lethal brain tumor with limited prognostic tools. Metabolic reprogramming, particularly in understudied pathways like propionate metabolism, may offer new biomarkers. Here, we identified a novel prognostic signature based on seven propionate metabolism-related genes (SLC9A1, ELANE, ACADS, SOAT2, MYD88, ADSL, and BMP2) from the TCGA-GBM cohort. A risk scoring model was constructed via LASSO Cox regression effectively stratified patients into high- and low-risk groups with significant survival differences, which was also validated in independent GEO datasets. Multiomics analysis revealed that the high-risk group was associated with an immunosuppressive microenvironment, characterized by increased immune checkpoint expression and distinct immune cell infiltration. Mutational profiling showed a strong association with key driver alterations, including enrichment of RB1 mutations in high-risk and IDH1 mutations in low-risk patients. Single-cell RNA-seq (scRNA-seq) analysis confirmed the specific enrichment of signature genes within malignant cells, and coexpression network analysis (hdWGCNA) further linked the high-risk phenotype to transcriptional modules. In conclusion, we established and validated a robust metabolic gene signature that not only predicts prognosis but also delineates a high-risk GBM subtype defined by integrated metabolic, immunogenomic, and transcriptional features, providing new insights into the determinants of GBM aggressiveness.Copyright © 2026 Mengtong Li et al. Human Mutation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Cholesterol esterification is a fundamental step in cholesterol metabolism and transport, and in humans, it is operated by three enzymes. Lecithin:cholesterol acyltransferase (LCAT) is responsible of cholesterol esterification in plasma and other biological fluids including cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), where it is mainly activated by apolipoprotein E. Esterification of cholesterol within cells is instead operated by sterol O-1 and O-2 acyltransferases (SOAT1 and SOAT2). SOAT1 is expressed in all cell types, while SOAT2 is expressed in hepatocytes and enterocytes, where it produces cholesteryl esters (CEs) to be assembled within VLDL and chylomicrons. LCAT and SOAT1/2 have different substrate specificity; LCAT has a preference for the unsaturated fatty acids, while the SOAT enzymes prefer the saturated (SFAs) and monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFAs). Here, we show that CSF CEs have a different composition compared to plasma CEs and specifically are more enriched in SFAs and MUFAs, typical substrates of the SOAT2 enzyme, and less frequently used by LCAT. Protein and RNA analysis in astrocytes, the main lipoprotein-producing cells in the central nervous system, excluded the presence of SOAT2, thus suggesting that CSF CEs are products of the LCAT enzyme. In line with this hypothesis, CSF phosphatidylcholine, the substrate of LCAT, is enriched in SFAs and MUFAs and depleted in polyunsaturated fatty acids. Moreover, we show that in Alzheimer's disease patients, CSF CEs are enriched in SFA, thus adding new insights into our recent observation that LCAT-mediated cholesterol esterification is hampered in Alzheimer's disease. In conclusion, the present findings not only clarify the enzymatic origin of CSF CEs but also open avenues for developing enzyme-specific biomarkers and therapeutic strategies aimed at restoring lipid homeostasis in the brain.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The apolipoprotein E ε4 (APOE ε4) allele confers the greatest genetic risk for sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD).To identify APOE ε4-associated metabolic factors related to AD risk and to provide preliminary insights into their biological and nutritional context.We leveraged multi-omics analyses across two independent cohorts to characterize biomarkers associated with AD. The effects of metabolite × APOE ε4 interactions were tested on incident AD and the ε4-specific metabolic signatures were pinpointed. Multimodal analyses were used to test the underlying mechanisms, including neuroimaging, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), and PET biomarkers within the A/T/N framework, as well as plasma proteomics combined with bioinformatics enrichment analyses.Across both cohorts, valine emerged as the only metabolite associated with a reduced risk of incident AD specifically among APOE ε4 carriers (P < 0.005). Significant interaction effects between valine and APOE ε4 were detected in both cohorts (P for meta-analyses < 0.005). Higher levels of valine were associated with greater total white matter and posterior cingulate cortex volumes, as well as with lower levels of CSF tau proteins. Higher valine levels also predicted a slower decline in FDG-PET metabolism. No association was found between valine and Aβ. Mediation analyses of plasma proteomic data suggested statistically significant mediation effects involving GFAP, NEFL, and APOE (P < 2 × 10-16).Valine is a metabolite associated with lower AD risk in APOE ε4 carriers, with potential associations with tau pathology, neurodegeneration, and neuroinflammation-related processes. As this was an observational study, causality cannot be inferred.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Low-carbohydrate and low-fat diets (LCDs and LFDs) are promoted for cardiometabolic prevention.This study examined associations of LCDs and LFDs with incident dementia and evaluated modification by genetic susceptibility.We included 5301 dementia-free adults aged ≥55 years from the Health and Retirement Study. Overall LCD and LFD indices were constructed based on macronutrient composition rankings assessed using a food frequency questionnaire in 2013-2014. Plant-based, animal-based, healthy, and unhealthy sub-scores were derived to characterize macronutrient sources and quality. Incident dementia was defined using the Langa-Weir algorithm through 2022. Genetic susceptibility was assessed using APOE genotype and Alzheimer disease polygenic risk score (AD-PRS). Cox models estimated hazard ratios (HRs).During the 9-year follow-up, 506 participants developed dementia. Greater LCD score was associated with lower dementia risk (HR per SD increment 0.90, 95% CI, 0.82, 0.99), whereas an overall LFD was not (1.05, 95% CI, 0.96, 1.15). Plant-based and healthy LCDs showed stronger inverse associations (0.85, 95% CI, 0.78, 0.94 and 0.82, 95% CI, 0.74, 0.90), while higher animal-based (1.10; 95% CI, 1.00, 1.20) and unhealthy LFDs (1.13; 95% CI, 1.04, 1.24) were linked to higher dementia risk. Associations were consistent across APOE genotype and AD-PRS strata. Higher plant-based and healthy LCDs were also associated with better global and domain-specific cognitive performance.Adherence to LCDs, particularly plant-based and higher-quality LCDs, was associated with lower dementia risk, consistently across genetic susceptibility strata. These findings underscored the importance of macronutrient quality, in addition to quantity, in promoting cognitive health.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Tumor immune barriers (TIBs) are spatially organized stromal-immune niches that restrict lymphocyte entry. To explain persistent immune-checkpoint blockade (ICB) resistance in clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC), we mapped TIBs and defined a peritumoral variant built from POSTN+ cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) interlaced with APOE+ tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs). This niche excluded CD8+ T cells from tumor cores, and was enriched in poor-prognosis, ICB-refractory patients. Spatial transcriptomics and single-cell profiling showed TIB regions enriched for extracellular-matrix remodeling, immunosuppressive ligand-receptor circuits, and metabolic reprogramming. Mechanistically, tumor-derived TGF-β1 activated CAFs via SMAD signaling, inducing POSTN and recruiting APOE+TAMs through integrin and chemokine axes. TAMs secreted TGF-β1 and VEGFA, amplifying stromal programs and sustaining exclusion. Blocking POSTN reprogrammed macrophages, reduced matrix-mediated suppression, and restored CD8+ infiltration. In vivo, POSTN inhibition combined with ICB boosted antitumor immunity, reduced tumor burden, and reversed immunosuppressive infiltration, nominating POSTN-directed strategies to potentiate ICB.
Neuroimaging with [18F]FDG PET can support the diagnosis of Dementia with Lewy Bodies (DLB), but it remains unclear how genetic factors influence metabolic phenotypes.To determine whether GBA1 and APOE ε4 status are associated with diverging [18F]FDG PET metabolic patterns in DLB.We analyzed [18F]FDG PET scans from 43 patients with DLB stratified by GBA1 and APOE ε4 status, and 35 from healthy subjects. Analyses included the cingulate island sign (CIS), regions of interest, SSM/PCA disease patterns, and a machine learning multi-class model. We evaluated the similarity of the DLB patient scans in our cohort with respect to typical DLB, Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD)-like patterns.APOE ε4 status mainly influenced the CIS, with APOE ε4-negative patients showing greater preservation of the DLB-typical CIS pattern (p = 0.03) compared to APOE ε4 carriers. In contrast, GBA1 status influenced global metabolic phenotype. GBA1 carriers showed a more homogeneous PD/DLB-like metabolic pattern in the machine learning model (p = 0.003) compared to GBA1 non-carriers, whereas the latter group demonstrated greater heterogeneity and higher expression of the AD-related metabolic pattern (p = 0.004). These effects were observed along a metabolic spectrum rather than as distinct clusters.APOE ε4 and GBA1 modulate distinct aspects of the metabolic phenotype in DLB. GBA1 non-carriers and APOE ε4 carriers showed a higher rate of atypical metabolic signatures, which may contribute to biological heterogeneity and increase the risk of diagnostic misclassification.© 2026. The Author(s).
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a globally prevalent chronic liver disease, and its progression is closely associated with Kupffer cells (KCs). This study aims to characterize C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 9꞉secreted phosphoprotein 1 (CS) polarization in KCs and investigate its intercellular communication with endothelial cells (ECs) in NAFLD.Single-cell RNA sequencing data of liver tissues from 3 NAFLD mice and 3 control mice were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) dataset GSE129516. Seurat was used for data integration, quality control, clustering, and annotation. KCs and ECs were divided into subgroups, followed by Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses. A mouse liver single-cell dataset (GSE270583) was further included for cross-validation of CS polarization. CellChat was used to infer intercellular communication networks between KC and EC subgroups. Twenty male C57BL/6J mice were assigned to a control group (n=10) and a high-fat diet (HFD) group (n=10). Body weight was measured weekly. At 20 weeks of feeding, glucose tolerance and insulin tolerance were assessed, after which the mice were sacrificed, and serum and liver tissues were collected for subsequent experiments. Hematoxylin and eosin (HE) staining and Oil Red O staining were used to observe pathological changes in the liver. Immunofluorescence staining of liver tissues was performed to validate the characteristics of CS polarization and M1/M2 polarization.A total of 29 cell clusters belonging to 8 cell types were identified. Compared with the control group, the proportion of KCs was increased and the proportion of ECs was decreased in the NAFLD group. Under M1/M2 and CS polarization frameworks, subgroups including CD80+ KCs, CD206+ KCs, S100A4+ KCs, secreted phosphoprotein 1 (SPP1)+ KCs, and C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 9 (CXCL9)+ KCs were identified. Among these, CD80+ KCs and SPP1+ KCs were significantly expanded, and their characteristic genes were mainly enriched in nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) signaling pathways. Peroxiredoxin 3 (PRDX3) was upregulated in CD80+ KCs and downregulated in CD206+ KCs. ECs were divided into 3 subgroups: Apoa2+ ECs, PRDX3+ ECs, and Col4a1+ ECs. In the NAFLD group, the PRDX3+ EC subgroup was abnormally active, accompanied by high expression of PRDX1 and downregulation of glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4). Further external validation using the single-cell dataset GSE270583 showed that SPP1+ KCs and CXCL9+ KCs could be clearly separated, and the proportion of SPP1+ KCs was increased in the NAFLD group, supporting the cross-cohort reproducibility of CS polarization in NAFLD. CellChat analysis suggested activation of the TNF receptor superfamily member 1A (TNFRSF1A) signaling pathway from CD80+ KCs and SPP1+ KCs to PRDX3+ ECs. After 20-week HFD feeding, mice displayed significant weight gain, impaired glucose tolerance, and reduced insulin sensitivity compared with controls (all P<0.05). The levels of alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate transferase (AST), total cholesterol (TC), and triglyceride (TG) were significantly higher in the HFD group than in the control group (all P<0.05). HE staining and Oil Red O staining showed marked disordered hepatic architecture, lipid vacuoles, and lipid deposition in the livers of HFD mice. Immunofluorescence staining showed increased expression of PRDX3 and CD80 in liver tissues of the HFD group. Compared with the control group, SPP1 expression was increased, whereas CXCL9 expression was decreased, in hepatic KCs of the HFD group. These results were consistent with the single-cell transcriptome sequencing findings.KCs in NAFLD exhibit characteristics of CS polarization, with increased proportions of SPP1+ KCs and CD80+ KCs, as well as enhanced TNF-TNFRSF1A communication with PRDX3+ ECs. Changes in the expression of SPP1, CXCL9, CD80, and PRDX3 in the liver tissues of HFD mice were generally consistent with the single-cell analysis results. CS polarization may participate in alterations of the hepatic inflammatory microenvironment in NAFLD and may provide a new research direction for understanding the inflammation-fibrosis progression of NAFLD.
ABBV-916, an anti-amyloid immunotherapy, was evaluated in patients with early Alzheimer's disease (AD).This phase 1b/2, double-blind, placebo-controlled study consisted of two stages: multiple ascending dose (Stage A) and dose expansion (Stage B). In Stage A, patients were randomized to one of six planned cohorts to receive intravenous ABBV-916 (10 mg to 3000 mg) or placebo monthly through week 24. Assessments included amyloid PET, blood-based biomarkers, pharmacokinetics (PK), and safety. Dose selection for Stage B was to be based on results from Stage A.One hundred six patients were randomized to ABBV-916 or placebo. The 3000 mg dose was reduced to 2000 mg and subsequently to 900 mg after safety review. Dose-proportional PK were observed, and amyloid reduction was observed over 24 weeks at doses ≥300 mg. Most adverse events were non-serious amyloid-related imaging abnormalities. The program ended before dose expansion due to business considerations.Amyloid clearance rate and safety of ABBV-916 were generally comparable to approved anti-amyloid AD therapies.NCT05291234.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42564156 is a review article
Soluble ligand-neutralizing antibodies are constrained by antigen excess and immune complex-associated toxicity. Here, we describe αLR-Ab, a humanized antibody that protects the low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) from proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) by targeting its EGF-A domain. Rather than transiently intercepting extracellular ligands, αLR-Ab sterically shields LDLR and redirects receptor trafficking through its native recycling pathway, thereby preventing PCSK9-mediated lysosomal degradation. This recycling-enabled receptor shielding supports durable LDL-C lowering, substantial dose sparing, and an eightfold increase in tolerance to PCSK9 excess in vitro. In humanized hypercholesterolemic mice, a single dose of αLR-Ab sustained LDL-C suppression for up to 24 days without inducing circulating immune complexes, perturbing free PCSK9 homeostasis, or promoting immune complex deposition in the renal cortex. Receptor shielding coupled with endogenous recycling, distinct from ligand neutralization or receptor degradation, defines a previously unexplored therapeutic modality for preserving homeostasis in chronic disease.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) are essential for maintaining vascular tone and participate in all stages of atherosclerosis. The transition of VSMCs into macrophage-like cells is a major source of plaque foam cells. Nevertheless, the mechanisms regulating this phenotypic transition remain elusive. RNA Binding Motif Protein 47 (RBM47) expression was increased by more than twofold in aortas of ApoE-/- mice and was markedly elevated in RBM47+α-SMA+ double-positive cells within atherosclerotic plaques. RBM47 knockdown significantly reduced plaque burden and vascular inflammation, and suppressed VSMC-to-macrophage-like transition. In POV-PC-treated VSMCs, RBM47 knockdown inhibited VSMC proliferation, migration, inflammation, and macrophage-like transition. Mechanistically, RBM47 was found to directly bind to two specific sequences within the 3'UTR of GALNT4 mRNA and enhance its stability. Functional rescue experiments confirmed that GALNT4 mediated the effects of RBM47 on VSMC-to-macrophage-like transition. These findings suggest that RBM47 contributes to atherosclerosis by stabilizing GALNT4 mRNA and promoting VSMC-to-macrophage-like transition.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
About one third of amyloid positive, cognitively normal individuals develop mild cognitive impairment or clinical Alzheimer dementia (AD) over 5 years of follow-up. Sensitive cognitive measures, in addition to biomarkers of amyloid pathology, add to the efficiency of secondary prevention trials by identifying cognitively normal individuals at greatest risk of clinical progression. The Stages of Objective Memory Impairment (SOMI) system, based on the picture version of the Free and Cued Selective Reminding Test with immediate recall (pFCSRT+IR), predicted clinical progression in two observational studies.Our objective was to extend SOMI's findings to clinical trials using participants from the Anti-Amyloid Treatment in Asymptomatic Alzheimer's(A4) study.Eligible participants were cognitively normal, had a Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR) =0, an elevated amyloid level, the pFCSRT+IR, pTau217, and longitudinal data on the CDR. Cox proportional hazards model was used to assess the association of baseline SOMI stage for clinical progression defined by time to the first of 2 consecutive CDRs > 0 or CDR>0 at last assessment. The sample was censored at 4.5 years of follow-up.Of the 911 eligible participants, mean age was 72 years, 59% were female, 62% were APOE ε4 carriers, and 37% progressed over 4.5 years. Hazard ratios (HR) for progression were estimated with follow-up time as the timescale and the SOMI 0 group as the reference. The HRs for progression across SOMI stage increased from 1.48(1.15-1.92 p=.003) for SOMI-1, to 1.83 (1.32-2.54, p ≤ 0.001) for SOMI-2, and to 3.04 (1.97-4.68, p ≤ 0.001) for SOMI 3/4. SOMI remained an independent and significant predictor when pTau217 was added to the model.SOMI's risk profile in A4 was similar to prior findings in observational cohorts. SOMI provides a low-cost, non-invasive enrichment tool for identifying individuals at risk for early cognitive decline in secondary prevention trials.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.
Apolipoprotein C1 (APOC1) is aberrantly overexpressed in multiple cancers, but its role in pancreatic adenocarcinoma (PAAD) and the tumor microenvironment remains unclear. Here, we investigated the expression and function of APOC1 in tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) in PAAD. Analysis of public single-cell datasets revealed that APOC1 is predominantly expressed in PAAD-associated macrophages and is significantly upregulated in TAMs compared to M0 macrophages. Functional studies demonstrated that APOC1 promotes M2-polarized immunosuppressive macrophage polarization and consequently enhances PAAD cell proliferation, migration, and resistance to cell death in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, APOC1 exerts its effects through two distinct pathways: (i) it activates the PPAR-γ signaling pathway in macrophages to drive M2 polarization; and (ii) it is secreted by macrophages via exosomes and transferred to PAAD cells, where it directly interacts with KEAP1 to stabilize NRF2, leading to suppression of ferroptosis. Targeting APOC1 in TAMs sensitizes PAAD cells to ferroptosis and synergizes with gemcitabine (GEM), a first-line chemotherapeutic agent, as evidenced by enhanced anti-proliferative, anti-migratory, and pro-apoptotic effects in vitro and reduced tumor growth in vivo. Collectively, our findings identify APOC1 as a critical regulator of M2 polarization and ferroptosis resistance in PAAD and suggest that targeting APOC1 in TAMs represents a potential therapeutic strategy to overcome GEM resistance.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
This study aimed to explore shared genetic architectures underlying Alzheimer's disease (AD) and its known risk factors.Significant common variants between AD and its risk factors were identified using GWAS data. The 1000 Genomes Project genotyping data enabled the detection of linkage disequilibrium (LD) blocks and haplotype structures. Functional impact assessments, protein-protein interaction analyses, pathway mapping and enrichment studies were performed.Sixteen significant variants across nine genes were associated with AD and at least one risk factor (p ≤ 5 × 10-8). Genes APOE, ABCA1 and TOMM40 showed strong associations with AD (adjusted p = 9.75 × 10-9). High-confidence interactions were identified among these genes, as well as APP and LRP1, within the AD pathway. Variant rs429358 (p ≤ 3 × 10-15) on the APOE gene was linked to AD, metabolic syndrome (MetS), diabetes, waist-to-hip ratio (WHR) and ageing. Variant rs2075650 (p ≤ 6 × 10-9) on TOMM40 correlated AD risk with MetS, WHR and body mass index (BMI). Variants rs483082 (p ≤ 2 × 10-32) and rs71352238 (p ≤ 1 × 10-11) on APOC1 and TOMM40 were associated with AD and MetS. Variants rs4420638 (p ≤ 2 × 10-34) and rs1800978 (p ≤ 2 × 10-9) on APOC1 and ABCA genes were associated with AD and WHR. The rs13237518 (p ≤ 5 × 10-11) was associated with AD risk in diabetic patients. Furthermore, the rs4277405 (p ≤ 9 × 10-20) associated AD with cardiovascular disease (CVD). Haplotypic structures were also identified for all these variants (D' and r2 ≥ 0.8).This study identifies genetic variants and LD blocks on APOE, ABCA1, TOMM40 and APOC1 genes shared between AD and its risk factors, revealing common genetic links and potential shared susceptibility pathways.© 2026 Japanese Psychogeriatric Society.
This study aimed to explore the clinical value of serum APOC1, LMNA, and TPM4 in predicting fetal cardiac abnormalities in elderly parturients.A retrospective study was conducted on 108 elderly (≥ 35 years old) pregnant women suspected of having fetal heart abnormalities (high-risk cohort). They were divided into a normal group (42 cases) and an abnormal group (66 cases). APOC1, LMNA, and TPM4 with significant differences were selected from 10 cardiac related proteins in blood samples collected at 18-24 weeks of pregnancy. A combined prediction model was constructed using logistic regression.In the abnormal group, APOC1 level was increased, but LMNA and TPM4 levels were decreased compared with the normal group (both P<0.05). The level of APOC1 was elevated, but LMNA and TPM4 levels were declined with the severity of cardiac abnormalities,(P<0.05). After adjusting for folate supplementation history, APOC1 (OR=1.85), LMNA (OR=0.52), and TPM4 (OR=0.41) were independent predictors of fetal cardiac abnormalities (all P<0.001). The AUC of the joint model for predicting fetal cardiac abnormalities was 0.906, with a sensitivity of 98.49% and a specificity of 76.19%, all of which were superior to individual indicator (P<0.05).The combined detection of APOC1, LMNA, and TPM4 has high predictive value for fetal cardiac abnormalities in elderly mothers, but external validation is needed to confirm clinical applicability.© 2026 Wang et al.
Cervical squamous cell carcinoma remains a major medical challenge worldwide, particularly in low-developed regions. This study integrated bulk transcriptomic (GSE63514) and single-cell RNA sequencing data (GSE168652) to investigate how senescencerelated mechanisms contribute to CESC progression. By leveraging this multi-omics integration, the study provides unprecedented resolution into cell-type-specific senescence programmes and their associated intercellular communication networks that drive CESC pathogenesis.Differential expression analysis was performed on bulk data, followed by functional enrichment analysis. Single-cell analysis characterised senescence signals across cell types and intercellular communications. Network pharmacology identified potential therapeutic agents targeting senescence pathways.We identified 1,319 upregulated and 913 downregulated genes in tumours compared to normal tissues. Functional enrichment analysis revealed pathways involved in cell cycle arrest (CDKN2A/p16INK4A), DNA repair (DNA2), and extracellular matrix remodelling (MMP12, CTHRC1). CDKN2A mediated growth suppression via p53/Rb signalling, while SASP components (AIM2, CXCL9) and APOC1-associated metabolic dysregulation shaped an immunosuppressive microenvironment. Single-cell analysis showed strong senescence signals in epithelial cells and macrophages, involving CDKN2A and APOC1. MIF and MDK signalling between these cells appeared to support immune evasion and angiogenesis. Network pharmacology indicated possible therapies, including CDK4/6 inhibitors, a strategy supported by findings in related HPV-associated malignancies, as well as MMP12 inhibitors and combinations of PARP inhibitors with immune checkpoint blockade.These findings provide a more detailed picture of senescence in CESC, with tumour-suppressive effects through CDKN2A and pro-tumorigenic effects via SASP components and APOC1. Cell-cell interactions involving MIF and MDK may drive immune evasion.This study demonstrated both the promoting and suppressive roles of senescence in CESC and identified potential therapeutic targets, offering hope for improved outcomes in high-risk patients from low-resource regions.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) play a crucial role in colorectal cancer (CRC) metastasis, particularly in the establishment of the liver metastatic niche. TAMs facilitate metastasis by enabling epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and suppressing anti-tumor immunity. While their roles in primary tumors have been extensively investigated, their functions at metastatic sites remain poorly understood. In this study, we analyzed the single-cell RNA sequencing data from 46 CRC patients, encompassing 402,972 cells, to identify macrophage subsets associated with liver metastasis. A distinct population of APOC1+ IFI30+ TAMs was identified and found to be significantly enriched in metastatic liver lesions. Compared to primary tumors (PT), the number of APOC1+ IFI30+ TAMs significantly increased at liver metastatic sites after CRC cells metastasized to the liver. We employed spatial transcriptomics to validate the above conclusions. These TAMs exhibited significantly enhanced immunosuppressive capacity and cholesterol synthesis metabolism. Further investigation showed that TAMs within metastatic niches reprogram the mevalonate pathway to enhance cholesterol synthesis, characterized by upregulation of key genes such as HMGCR and ACAT1/2. These TAMs act on surrounding tumor cells by secreting cholesterol and cytokines such as TNFSF12, TGFB1, MIF and LGALS9, thereby enhancing tumor adhesion and proliferation and creating an immunosuppressive microenvironment to continuously support tumor growth. Our findings provided new insights into the complex interactions among TAMs, immune cells, and tumor cells within CRC metastatic microenvironment, highlighting potential therapeutic targets to disrupt TAMs-mediated immune evasion and metastatic progression.© 2026. The Author(s).
Keloids are fibroproliferative scars that extend beyond the original wound margins and may cause pain, pruritus, and substantial psychosocial distress. Earlobe keloids are common, clinically distinctive lesions with high recurrence rates; however, the molecular mechanisms underlying their development remain incompletely characterized. Existing transcriptomic studies have largely focused on extracellular matrix genes, with limited integration of metabolism-related pathways.To characterize the integrated transcriptomic profile of earlobe keloids compared with site-matched normotrophic scars, allowing the characterization of a site-specific molecular profile, focusing on collagen and extracellular matrix, metalloproteinases, and metabolism-related genes, and to validate selected targets at the mRNA and protein levels.In this primary analytical case-control study, tissue samples were obtained from 11 earlobe keloids and 10 normotrophic earlobe scars in adults aged 18-50 years. After histopathological confirmation, total RNA was extracted and analyzed using next-generation RNA sequencing on the Ion S5 platform. Differentially expressed genes were identified using an absolute fold change ≥ 2 and a false discovery rate (FDR)-adjusted p value < 0.05, as calculated in Ion Reporter. Panels of collagen and extracellular matrix genes, metalloproteinase-related genes, and metabolism-related genes were selected for validation by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, with ACTB and GAPDH as housekeeping genes. Relative expression was calculated using the 2-ΔΔCt method. ADAM12 protein levels were quantified in tissue lysates using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Statistical significance was set at p < 0.05.RNA sequencing identified 20,809 genes across all samples, of which 664 were differentially expressed between keloid and normotrophic scar tissue. Earlobe keloids showed marked upregulation of collagen and extracellular matrix genes, including FN1, COL1A1, COL1A2, COL3A1, COL5A1, COL5A2, SPARC, LOX, and LOXL2, indicating reinforced matrix deposition and crosslinking. Metalloproteinase genes, such as ADAM12, MMP2, MMP11, MMP13, ADAMTS2, and ADAMTS12, together with TIMP1, were also overexpressed. Quantitative real-time PCR showed high concordance with transcriptomic fold changes, and ADAM12 protein was significantly increased in keloid tissue compared with normotrophic scars (p < 0.001). Metabolism-related genes, CPXM1, GALNT5, CHST6, and NOX4, were overexpressed, whereas ACADM, LEPR, APOC1, THRSP, and AWAT2 were downregulated, suggesting altered glycosylation, oxidative stress, and disturbed lipid metabolism in earlobe keloids.Earlobe keloids display a site-specific molecular profile characterized by coordinated dysregulation of collagen, metalloproteinases, and metabolism-related genes. The convergence of extracellular matrix accumulation, protease-antiprotease imbalance, and metabolic reprogramming supports the concept of keloids as metabolically active fibrotic tumors and identifies targets, such as ADAM12 and NOX4, for future translational studies. These findings reinforce the concept of anatomical site-dependent keloid biology and support targeted therapeutic approaches.This journal requires that authors assign a level of evidence to each article. For a full description of these Evidence-Based Medicine ratings, please refer to the Table of Contents or the online Instructions to Authors www.springer.com/00266 .© 2026. The Author(s).
Apolipoprotein C1 (APOC1) has been implicated in several malignancies, yet its expression patterns, clinical significance, and immunomodulatory roles across cancer types remain poorly characterized.We performed a comprehensive multi-omic analysis of APOC1 across 33 cancer types integrating transcriptomic, proteomic, genomic, epigenomic, and pharmacogenomic data from TCGA, GTEx, CPTAC, and multiple independent external cohorts. Immune infiltration was assessed using seven complementary algorithms. Spatial transcriptomics and single-cell RNA sequencing were employed to determine the cellular source of APOC1 expression.APOC1 upregulation in most cancers was associated with cancer type-specific prognosis. After adjustment for clinical covariates and macrophage infiltration, high APOC1 remained an independent adverse factor in KIRC, LGG, and STAD. APOC1 expression positively correlated with genomic instability hallmarks, including homologous recombination deficiency and aneuploidy, with these associations largely independent of immune infiltration; in contrast, associations with tumor mutational burden were substantially confounded by macrophage abundance. Immune infiltration analysis revealed a pattern consistent with adaptive immune resistance: APOC1 correlated positively with immune-activating signatures (STAT1, MHC-II, TCR signaling) and immunosuppressive M2 macrophages and Tregs, yet negatively with anti-tumor effectors (activated NK cells, dendritic cells). Spatial transcriptomics and single-cell RNA sequencing identified tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) as the primary cellular source of APOC1, with transcripts co-localizing with CD68 in tissue sections. APOC1 expression correlated with multiple immune checkpoint molecules and was elevated in responders to immune checkpoint blockade, consistent with an inflamed yet regulated tumor microenvironment. Pharmacogenomic analyses revealed that APOC1-high tumors display distinct drug response profiles, characterized by resistance to MAPK pathway inhibitors and potential sensitivity to the HDAC inhibitor Entinostat.This pan-cancer analysis establishes APOC1 as a context-dependent biomarker and a TAM-derived modulator of adaptive immune resistance, with prognostic and therapeutic implications across malignancies. APOC1-expressing TAMs represent a potential target for combination immunotherapy strategies.© 2026. The Author(s).
The APOE gene encodes a lipid transport protein central to Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis. Three common alleles-ε2 (rs7412(C > T)), ε3 (reference), and ε4 (rs429358(T > C))-arise from two coding variants in exon 4 and confer distinct AD risk profiles, with ε4 increasing risk and ε2 being protective. The ε3-linked APOE variant rs769455[T] has also been associated with increased AD risk among individuals of African ancestry who also carry the APOE ε4 allele. Determining how genetic variation influences CpG methylation requires methQTL-type analyses, but conventional bisulfite and array-based approaches offer limited resolution for distinguishing allele-specific effects. Here, we use high-accuracy long-read sequencing to generate haplotype-resolved methylation profiles across the APOE locus in 332 postmortem brain tissue samples from ancestrally diverse cohorts, including 201 samples from individuals of European ancestry and 131 samples from individuals of African and African admixed ancestry. Treating each haplotype as an independent observation, OLS regression identified 18 novel differentially methylated CpG sites associated with ε2, ε4, and rs769455[T] across the APOE locus (TOMM40, APOE, APOC1, and APOC4-APOC2 genes). These findings reveal distinct allele-specific methylation signatures and demonstrate the utility of long-read sequencing for resolving epigenetic variation relevant to AD risk.© This is a U.S. Government work and not under copyright protection in the US; foreign copyright protection may apply 2026.
The Portfolio Diet has demonstrated clinically meaningful reductions in LDL-C concentrations. Variations in ABCA1, ABCG8, APOA5, ANGPTL3, and APOC1 have also been associated with LDL-C and other blood lipid concentrations. The interaction between these genetic variations and the Portfolio Diet on LDL-C is unclear. Therefore, we examined whether variations in genes involved in lipid metabolism modify the association between the Portfolio Diet Score (PDS) and its components and LDL-C concentrations.This cross-sectional analysis included 1490 young adults (mean age, 23±2years) from the Toronto Nutrigenomics and Health Study. Adherence to the Portfolio Diet was measured by the PDS and its individual components. Using a candidate gene approach, participants were genotyped for SNPs in ABCA1 (rs1883025), ABCG8 (rs6544713), APOA5 (rs662799), ANGPTL3 (rs10889353) and APOC1 (rs4420638). Multiple linear regressions examined gene-diet interactions with LDL-C. Higher PDS, intake of plant protein, nuts, and phytosterols and lower intake of saturated fat and cholesterol sources were associated with lower LDL-C (p < 0.05). ABCA1 rs1883025 genotype modified the association between the PDS and LDL-C (p < 0.01). A 1-point higher PDS was associated with lower LDL-C among those with the ABCA1 rs1883025 CC (β: -0.017 mmol/L [95% CI: -0.027, -0.007], p < 0.01) and TT (-0.034 mmol/L [-0.065, -0.003], p = 0.03) genotypes. ABCG8 rs6544713 T allele was associated with higher LDL-C (p = 0.002). ABCG8 rs6544713 genotype modified the association between plant protein (p = 0.02) and phytosterols (p = 0.01) with LDL-C. A 1-serving higher intake of plant protein (-0.314 mmol/L [-0.601, -0.028], p = 0.03) and phytosterol (-0.051 mmol/L [-0.101, -0.002], p = 0.04) sources was associated with lower LDL-C among those with the ABCG8 rs6544713 TT genotype.In young adults, higher PDS and intake of its components showed favourable associations with LDL-C. Our findings suggest that ABCA1 rs1883025 and ABCG8 rs6544713 genotypes modify the association of the PDS, plant protein and phytosterols with LDL-C.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Familial chylomicronemia syndrome (FCS) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by severe hypertriglyceridemia (sHTG) due to variants in canonical genes (LPL [lipoprotein lipase], APOA5, APOC2, GPIHBP1, and LMF1); its genotype distribution in Latin America remains scarcely reported. Given limited access to genetic testing and frequent negative results in clinically consistent cases, clinical scores and lipid ratios have been proposed to predict FCS.This study aimed to outline the genetic, clinical, and biochemical characteristics, as well as the performance of scoring systems, in a Latin American cohort of patients with sHTG.Genetic, clinical, and biochemical data were obtained in 77 individuals with sHTG (TG >10 mmol/L), including 28 genetically diagnosed FCS and 49 multifactorial chylomicronemia syndrome (MCS). Triglyceride/total cholesterol (TG/TC), TG/apolipoprotein B (apoB) ratios, and Moulin and North American Familial Chylomicronemia Score (NAFCS) scores were calculated.Among patients with FCS, non-LPL monogenic defects were present in 64% of patients (n = 18), with variants in APOA5 (n = 11), GPIHBP1 (n = 3), APOC2 (n = 2), and LMF1 (n = 2). Diagnosis was frequently delayed, and body mass index overlapped across groups. Biochemical biomarkers showed good diagnostic performance, with AUCs of 0.767 (95% CI: 0.640-0.876; P < .0001) for TG/TC and 0.790 (95% CI: 0.651-0.906; P < .0001) for TG/apoB. Moulin score showed high sensitivity (91.3%), whereas NAFCS score showed high specificity (90.9%).This large multicenter Latin American study of sHTG reveals a distinct genetic landscape from other regions. It also supports the performance of clinical scores and the discriminatory accuracy of biochemical indices.Copyright © 2026 National Lipid Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Depression is a prevalent but underdiagnosed comorbidity in type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), intensifying disease burden and complicating metabolic management. Reliable biomarkers for early detection remain limited. This study aimed to identify serum protein signatures associated with depression in individuals with T2DM using an untargeted proteomic approach. Methods Serum samples from healthy controls, T2DM patients, and T2DM patients with comorbid depression (n = 6 per group) were analyzed using LC-MS/MS-based untargeted proteomics (total n = 18). Differential protein abundance was assessed using MetaboAnalyst 6.0. Protein-protein interaction networks and pathway enrichment analyses were conducted using the STRING database. Candidate markers were further validated by ELISA in an independent cohort of healthy controls (n = 30), T2DM (n = 30), and T2DM with depression (n = 30). Diagnostic performance was evaluated using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves. Results LC-MS/MS identified 242 serum proteins, of which 12 were significantly dysregulated among the groups. Nine proteins showed unique alterations in the T2DM-depression group. STRING analysis highlighted ST18 as a central regulatory protein. ELISA validation confirmed significant elevation of LRG1, APOC2, and ST18 in T2DM with depression compared to controls and T2DM without depression. Among these, ST18 demonstrated the highest diagnostic accuracy, yielding the greatest area under the ROC curve. Conclusion Untargeted proteomic profiling revealed distinct serum protein alterations in T2DM patients with comorbid depression. ST18 emerged as a robust and specific biomarker, suggesting its potential involvement in the molecular interplay between metabolic dysregulation and depressive pathology. Larger, longitudinal studies are required to validate its predictive utility and clarify its role in T2DM-associated depression.
Lipid metabolism involves multiple genes that contribute to various diseases including metabolic disorders. Although extensive research has focused on identifying large-effect variants in coding regions, few studies have examined the effects of variations in regulatory and non-coding regions. Apolipoprotein C2 (APOC2) gene plays a central role in activating lipoprotein lipase; however, the effect of upstream variants on its transcriptional regulation remains unclear. We aimed to (1) identify genetic variants in a targeted APOC2 upstream region of, (2) annotate and characterize predicted cis-regulatory elements (CREs) in-silico, (3) map identified variants to transcription factor binding sites (TFBS), and (4) evaluate the association of selected variants with dyslipidemia and body mass index (BMI).Twelve variants were identified by sequencing of the APOC2 targeted region in a Kuwaiti cohort (n = 600). In-silico annotation using multiple tools identified 626 putative CRE within the targeted region which were prioritized into 48 predicted TFBS of functional relevance. Four variants (rs10425530, rs111782345, rs112698600, and rs2288912) met the criteria for association testing. A significant independent association, employing multivariate analysis, was observed between rs10425530 and BMI under a dominant model (β = 2.26; p = 0.022) among the Kuwaiti Arabs that requires further investigation in a large cohort. Motif-based analyses predicted that the rs10425530 A allele may alter the binding affinity of NR2C2, NR2C1, and GCM2 motifs by 21.10%, 23.80% and 20.40%, respectively.Two hypothetical models have been proposed to explain the observed association between rs10425530 and increased BMI and the predicted effect on TFBS: (1) disruption of NR2C1/NR2C2 binding sites may influence APOC2 regulation via interactions with nuclear receptors involved in energy balance and/or (2) disruption of a GCM2 binding site may act via long-range regulatory effects on parathyroid hormone pathways. These findings are exploratory and require replication in larger independent cohorts and warrants further in-vitro and in-situ investigations to elucidate definitive functional assignments in regulatory activity and chromatin accessibility. The analytical framework applied in this study could provide basis for improving the interpretation of non-coding genomic variations and groundwork for future studies combining in-silico functional predictions and experimental analysis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Persistent subclinical inflammation is a hallmark of familial Mediterranean fever (FMF), the most common autoinflammatory disease. Among the key mediators implicated in this chronic inflammatory state are tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), oxidized low-density lipoprotein (OxLDL), and apolipoprotein C-II (APOC2), which contribute to the dysregulated immune response characteristic of FMF. The present study aims to evaluate the potential role of TNF-α, OxLDL, and APOC2 as diagnostic biomarkers of disease severity in patients with FMF.The study enrolled 66 patients diagnosed with FMF and 60 age- and gender-matched healthy controls. Serum levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) and oxidized low-density lipoprotein (OxLDL) were quantified using the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) technique. However, the apolipoprotein C-II (APOC2) concentrations were measured using an automated biochemistry analyzer. Furthermore, the Carotid intima media was assessed.Serum TNF-α levels were significantly higher in FMF patients than in the control group, emphasizing the protein's role as an important marker of chronic inflammation. Levels of low-density lipoprotein (OxLDL) and apolipoprotein C-II (APOC2) were also notably altered in the FMF cohort. Notably, OxLDL, APOC2 and TNF-α demonstrated strong positive correlation with attack frequency, multiple linear regressions analysis showed that OxLDL (β=1.53, p=0.002) and TNF-α (β=1.38, p=0.003) were significant predictors for higher number of attacks, suggesting their potential role involvement in the inflammatory cascade and their utility as complementary biomarkers in FMF. The carotid intima-media thickness (CIMT) of patients and control subjects did not differ statistically significantly.TNF-α, oxidized LDL, and APOC2 are key pro-inflammatory mediators that may serve as novel biomarkers for assessing chronic inflammatory status in FMF patients. Their elevated levels could provide valuable insights into disease progression and help guide personalized treatment strategies.© 2026 the author(s), published by De Gruyter, Berlin/Boston.
Apolipoprotein C2 (APOC2) has been identified as a potential therapeutic target for acute myeloid leukemia, but its impact on normal hematopoiesis remains unclear. Here we generated a global inducible Apoc2 knockout (KO) mouse model by breeding R26-CreERT2 mice with mice homozygous for Apoc2 lox sites (Apoc2fl/fl) over three generations. Global Apoc2 KO was induced in 4-8-week-old mice by 5 consecutive days of intraperitoneal administration of tamoxifen. Successful Apoc2 KO was confirmed by measuring Apoc2 mRNA levels, showing 80-99% reduction in the liver, bone marrow, spleen and blood tissues compared with wild type (WT). Despite significantly higher serum triglyceride levels in the Apoc2-KO group, no apparent abnormal phenotypes were observed. In vitro expansion of the hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells and splenocytes from Apoc2-KO were comparable to that of WT mice. In addition, Apoc2 deletion did not significantly affect the colony-forming ability or the competitive repopulation ability of hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells. Hematological analysis revealed no significant differences between Apoc2-KO and WT mice. RNA-sequencing analysis of bone marrow samples from the Apoc2-KO group identified four significantly downregulated genes and five upregulated genes, including Gm16867, which is orthologous to the human SLC25A37 gene involved in mitochondrial iron homeostasis. Gene set enrichment analysis revealed the enrichment of heme metabolism (false discovery rate 0.077). Our study demonstrates that deletion of Apoc2 exhibits limited impact on normal hematopoiesis under normal conditions. Future characterization of this Cre-inducible Apoc2-KO mice under stress conditions or during aging is needed to fully demonstrate the biological impact of Apoc2 deletion.© 2026. The Author(s).
To systematically characterize aqueous humor (AH) proteomic alterations in ADAMTSL4-associated congenital ectopia lentis (CEL) and to identify disease-related molecular features.Mass spectrometry-based deep data-independent acquisition (deep DIA) proteomics was employed to profile AH proteomes from pediatric ADAMTSL4-associated CEL patients. Differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were analyzed using functional enrichment and gene set enrichment analysis. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) identified disease-related protein modules. Candidate biomarkers were prioritized using machine learning, followed by technical confirmation using intelligent parallel reaction monitoring (iPRM) and clinical correlation analysis. Transcriptional changes of selected candidates were assessed by quantitative PCR in ADAMTSL4-knockdown human retinal pigment epithelial cells, human fibroblasts, and adamtsl4-knockout zebrafish.Deep DIA quantified 1865 AH proteins, among which 265 DEPs were identified and enriched in extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling, complement-coagulation cascades, and lipid transport pathways. Expression-based stratification revealed tier-specific functional patterns. WGCNA identified modules significantly associated with ocular phenotypes. Machine learning prioritized six candidate biomarkers (ADAMTS3, APOC2, AMBP, KLKB1, SDC4, and ENPP2), of which APOC2, AMBP, KLKB1, and ENPP2 achieved targeted confirmation by iPRM; APOC2, KLKB1, and ENPP2 were correlated with axial length or choroidal thickness. In ADAMTSL4-knockdown cells, ENPP2, MYDGF, and CA2 were downregulated and LCAT was upregulated, consistent with proteomic findings. MYDGF further showed a concordant directional change in the zebrafish model.This study established a high-resolution AH proteomic profile of ADAMTSL4-associated CEL, revealing coordinated molecular alterations in ECM disruption, complement-coagulation activation, and dysregulated lipid homeostasis, providing integrated molecular insights and candidate molecular features for understanding this rare ocular disorder.
Severe hypertriglyceridemia (HTG) is genetically heterogeneous, but its genetic architecture remains incompletely characterized. We investigated the genetic determinants of severe HTG in 123 patients with triglyceride (TG) levels > 5.0 mmol/L and available NGS data. We analyzed rare variants in LPL, APOC2, APOA5, GPIHBP1, LMF1, and APOE; the ε2/ε2 APOE genotype; and TG-polygenic risk score (PRS) based on 40 variants. Major genetic determinants were identified in 65.0% of individuals, including rare variants in chylomicronemia genes (24.4%; 28 variants, including 10 novel, 53.6% in LPL), rare APOE variants or the ε2/ε2 genotype (18.7%, overlapping with chylomicronemia variants in 4.1%), and an extreme polygenic burden (35.8%; PRS > 90th percentile), including 26.0% with isolated polygenic HTG. The remaining 35.0% had moderate-to-low PRS. The cohort was categorized into familial chylomicronemia syndrome (FCS, n = 7), multifactorial chylomicronemia syndrome (MCS, n = 21), polygenic HTG (n = 32), familial dysbetalipoproteinemia (FD, n = 20), and moderate-to-low PRS (n = 43) groups based on genetic determinants. FCS had the lowest PRS percentile (median 26) and the most distinct clinical profile, with the highest TG levels (median 30.60 mmol/L) and 6-24-fold higher odds of pancreatitis compared with other groups (p < 0.05), alongside a lower body mass index (median 23.0 kg/m2) than all groups except MCS, whereas FD had the lowest TG levels (10.20 mmol/L, p < 0.05). These results further advance the understanding of the complex genetic architecture of severe HTG and demonstrate that broader genetic analysis, including APOE and TG-PRS, may increase the yield of genetic determinants in severe HTG.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42308165 is a review article
Fluxapyroxad (FLU), a widely used succinate dehydrogenase inhibitor (SDHI) fungicide, can enter aquatic environments and pose potential risks to aquatic organisms. This study investigated the hepatotoxic effects of long-term FLU exposure in adult zebrafish exposed to 0, 30, 60, and 90 μg/L FLU for 28 days. High-dose (90 μg/L) exposure significantly reduced body weight, increased liver weight, and induced hepatic vacuolization and reduced glycogen storage in histological analysis. Transcriptomic analysis of the high-dose group revealed significant upregulation of lipid metabolism-related genes (ldlr, lpin1, apoc2), enriched in PPAR signaling and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease pathways; lipidomic profiling showed widespread lipid alterations (especially phosphatidylcholine species), with glycerophospholipid metabolism as the most affected pathway, and 11 differential lipid species including PC(18:0/16:0) and TG(20:0/14:0/14:0) were identified as candidates. Integrated multi-omics analysis demonstrated that high-dose FLU exposure triggered hepatic lipid metabolic disorders via dysregulated expression of genes involved in lipid synthesis, transport and degradation. These findings reveal the mechanism of FLU-induced hepatotoxicity, and provide reference for identifying FLU-responsive hepatic differential lipids, as well as ecological risk assessment of FLU and related SDHI fungicides in aquatic systems.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Inter-individual variability in lipid response to dietary modification highlights the critical need for precision nutrition. Current evidence remains fragmented, relying predominantly on restricted candidate-gene studies rather than comprehensive genomic approaches. To bridge this gap, we applied a biologically informed analytical framework to whole-exome sequencing (WES) data to evaluate the nutrigenetics of lipid response in an underrepresented Georgian cohort. Specifically, we explored whether exome-wide and pathway-aggregated genetic variation may contribute to inter-individual differences in LDL cholesterol (ΔLDL-C) and triglyceride (ΔTAG) response to Mediterranean-style dietary guidance.A longitudinal study was conducted with 51 dyslipidemic patients who received Mediterranean-style dietary guidance for at least 2 months. High-depth whole-exome sequencing (mean 112×) was performed, and a parallel analytical approach was used: an exploratory exome-wide association analysis to screen for nominal variant-level signals, and a targeted gene-level analysis of the 'Plasma Lipoprotein Assembly, Remodeling, and Clearance' pathway to prioritize biologically plausible signals.The intervention resulted in mean reductions of 33.5 mg/dL in LDL-C and 18.6 mg/dL in TAG. Exome-wide screening identified no variants reaching exome-wide significance. The lowest nominal p-values were observed for ΔLDL-C at KIF6 (p = 4.87 × 10-7; FDR = 0.122) and for ΔTAG at SLC35F2 (p = 3.08 × 10-6; FDR = 0.521). These results were therefore reported only descriptively, without biological interpretation as candidate diet-response loci. In the targeted Reactome pathway analysis, APOC3 was the top-ranked ΔLDL-C gene-level signal and the only pathway-level result surviving FDR correction (Simes p = 7.84 × 10-4; FDR = 0.0361), whereas no ΔTAG pathway-level result survived FDR correction. Variant-level inspection showed that the APOC3 signal was driven primarily by an intronic variant with low model-specific genotype-complete sample size (N = 10), supporting interpretation as a hypothesis-generating locus-level signal rather than confirmatory evidence of a gene-diet association.This exploratory WES study provides a pragmatic framework for pathway-focused nutrigenomic analysis of lipid response in an underrepresented clinical cohort. The results prioritize APOC3 as a hypothesis-generating LDL-C response locus, while emphasizing the need for larger replication studies before gene-diet associations can be inferred.Copyright © 2026 Iordanishvili, Chiradze, Agladze, Kikvidze, Khuchua, Lagani and Solomonia.
This study elucidates the biochemical mechanisms by which extreme high-altitude environments are associated with the remodeling of the skeletal muscle flavor profile in sheep. Using Bayinbuluke (high-altitude) and Turpan Black (low-altitude) sheep, we integrated volatilomics, metabolomics, transcriptomics, and proteomics to map flavor precursor networks. Odor activity value analysis revealed that high-altitude meat exhibited sub-threshold suppression of animal off-flavors, such as p-cresol, while significantly amplifying premium fruity esters. Targeted metabolomics attributed this sensory inversion to a structural shift in the precursor pool, specifically the enrichment of highly reactive polyunsaturated fatty acids, L-cysteine, and rhamnose. Multi-omics integration demonstrated that cold and hypoxic stresses are associated with metabolic reprogramming. The synergistic downregulation of the GPAT3 gene and APOC3 protein was associated with redirected lipid flux, suggesting a mechanism for functional fatty acid accumulation. Simultaneously, the pronounced upregulation of the CTH gene, potentially driven by antioxidant defense needs, coincided with substantial L-cysteine accumulation. Correlation networks suggested that this precursor shift is negatively correlated with off-flavor generation, possibly via competitive thermal degradation. In conclusion, extreme ecological stress is associated with convergent metabolic reprogramming, contributing to the reconstruction of the flavor precursor pool to alter the characteristic lipid aroma of plateau meat. While these findings provide a comprehensive structural blueprint of plateau meat characteristics, the proposed mechanisms remain hypothetical and warrant future functional and sensory validation.
Lipoproteins are molecules composed of phospholipids and apolipoproteins that transport triacylglycerol and cholesterol in blood and are implicated in the development of many diseases.In this study, we fill a knowledge gap by precisely characterizing the apolipoprotein profile (with Bio-Plex Human Apolipoprotein Assay) in three metabolically separate groups of individuals (lean individuals and obese individuals without and with metabolic syndrome) and at four distinct time points (0, 3, 6, and 12 months post bariatric surgery).Obese patients had a higher baseline ApoB/ApoA1 ratio, which returned to the reference level over the follow-up period. The above is of clinical importance, as the ratio is a predictor of adverse cardiovascular events common in obese subjects. Interestingly, plasma concentrations of most of the investigated apolipoproteins appeared to be relatively stable at the onset of the experiment, with changes observed later in time. We detected significant drops in the levels of ApoC3, ApoD, and ApoH that occurred as early as three months post intervention. On the other hand, the levels of ApoA2, ApoE, and ApoJ increased with time. Of the above, ApoE is known to be involved in the removal of TAGs and cholesterol from the blood. Conversely, ApoJ appears to be one of the determinants of the tissues' responsiveness to insulin. Thus, it may be an indicator of the reduced insulin resistance observed a few months after the surgery.Overall, the investigated proteins have a documented role in the development and progression of vascular pathologies. Hence, our results may be interpreted as a sign of improved cardiovascular fitness of our patients.
Background/Objectives: Exposure to high and sustained levels of non-esterified fatty acids (NEFA) in the peripartal period is the main cause of fatty liver disease in dairy cows. Rumen-protected choline is often fed as part of the nutritional management of peripartal cows, with in vivo and in vitro data indicating positive effects of this nutrient on alleviating liver lipid accumulation. Although hepatic molecular mechanisms associated with choline supply have been studied using a target gene, protein, or metabolite approach, application of high-throughput technologies could vastly enhance fundamental knowledge on the functional role of choline. The main objective was to challenge isolated hepatocytes with a mixture of NEFA and determine proteome- and metabolome-wide effects in response to choline supply. Methods: Three healthy female calves (1 d old, 30-45 kg) were sacrificed to harvest hepatocytes. During a 12 h incubation, isolated hepatocytes were challenged without NEFA (control), 1.2 mM NEFA (c9-18:1, 18:2, 16:0, 18:0, and c9-16:1 at 43.5%, 4.9%, 31.9%, 14.4%, and 5.3% of total NEFA, respectively), or NEFA for 6 h followed by 10 μM choline chloride for another 6 h (NEFA + Chol). iTRAQ labeling-based protein profiling and GC/MS-based metabolomics profiling were used to determine changes in proteins and metabolites. Differentially abundant proteins for each group comparison were determined at a threshold of 1.4-fold change. Differences in metabolite profiles were assessed via pairwise comparisons. A subset of differentially abundant proteins was validated via qRT-PCR and Western blotting. Results: Compared with the control, there were 90 proteins and 22 metabolites in the NEFA group, and 83 proteins and 29 metabolites in the NEFA + Chol. Compared with NEFA, there were 49 proteins and 17 metabolites in the NEFA + Chol group. Greater abundance of hexokinase-1 (HK1), fructose-bisphosphate aldolase (ALDOA), mitochondrial pyruvate carrier 1 (MPC1), and increased concentrations of lactate with high NEFA treatment alone suggested greater glycolytic and TCA cycle activity. Accumulation of triacylglycerol in the NEFA group was associated with lipotoxicity and markers of inflammation, such as greater abundance of prostaglandin reductase 1 (PTGR1), serious cell autophagy processes, such as greater abundance of cell division cycle 42 (CDC42), and NFκB-related proteins. Choline supplementation reduced TAG partly due to greater VLDL secretion driven by greater abundance of diacylglycerol acyltransferase (DGAT1), perilipin 3 (PLIN3), and apolipoprotein C-III (APOC3). In addition, a greater abundance of carnitine O-palmitoyltransferase 1b (CPT1B) with choline suggested enhanced mitochondrial β-oxidation. Activation of the CDC42/JNK pathway and ROS/NFκB axis-related proteins, along with depressed PI3K/AKT/RAC-related proteins, indicated enhanced mitochondrial autophagy in response to NEFA. Conclusions: Overall, data confirmed published effects of choline on TAG accumulation, VLDL secretion, and fatty acid oxidation, while highlighting negative effects of NEFA on the respiratory electron transport chain, autophagy, and inflammatory processes.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42504609 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42474848 is a review article
Metabolic syndrome (MetS) is a cluster of interconnected cardiometabolic risk factors with a substantial but incompletely characterized genetic basis. To identify novel genetic determinants, particularly rare variants, we here conducted a large-scale exome-wide association study in 367,188 individuals from the UK Biobank (78,300 cases and 288,888 controls). Single-variant analysis identified 74 independent loci, three of which correspond to rare variants in CARMIL2, ACTR6, and PLA2G12A without prior documented MetS association. Furthermore, gene-based burden testing pinpointed three key genes: ABCA1, APOC3, and PDE3B. Integrative follow-up analyses - including colocalization across molecular traits (mRNA, protein, microbiota) and association testing with proteomic/metabolic biomarkers - collectively suggest that these rare variants influence MetS susceptibility through coordinated effects on protein expression, metabolite concentrations, and microbial abundance. Importantly, ABCA1, APOC3, and PDE3B are established or promising drug targets for related metabolic disorders. In summary, our study not only elucidates the significant contribution of rare variants to MetS susceptibility, distinct from common variant signals, but also highlights the central role of lipid metabolism pathways, thereby nominating plausible targets for therapeutic intervention. Clinical trial number:Not applicable.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Diabetic kidney disease (DKD) is the primary global cause of end-stage renal disease. However, the aging-related gene networks driving its progression remain unclear.In this study, we integrated bioinformatics and experiments to screen for age-related hub genes in DKD and explore their diagnostic and therapeutic values. Transcriptomic datasets and aging-related gene databases were combined to obtain candidate differentially expressed genes enriched in the PI3K-Akt and JAK-STAT pathways. LASSO and Random Forest algorithms were applied to screen core hub genes, and a logistic diagnostic model was constructed for verification. Single-cell sequencing was utilized to clarify the main cell populations expressing key genes. Molecular docking and dynamics simulations were performed to analyze the binding stability of candidate drugs and target genes. High-glucose cell models and DKD rat models were established, and RT-qPCR, western blot, and pathological staining assays were used to validate the expression changes of key genes and the regulatory effects of drugs.Nine hub genes (CLU, EGF, SLC16A7, MYC, RPA1, RB1, APOC3, SYK, and NR3C1) were finally screened out. The constructed logistic diagnostic model achieved an AUC of 0.881 in external verification. Glomerular endothelial cells and mesangial cells were identified as the main cell populations expressing these hub genes. Molecular simulation results confirmed the stable binding of fostamatinib to SYK and selexipag to APOC3. In vivo and in vitro validation experiments demonstrated that the two candidate agents could suppress NF-κB pathway activation, inflammatory cytokine release, and cellular senescence.In this study, we identified age-related hub genes, constructed a reliable diagnostic signature, and suggested SYK-fostamatinib and APOC3-selexipag as potential drug-repurposing candidates for DKD, which requires further experimental and clinical validation.© 2026. The Author(s).
The genetic background of hypertriglyceridemia is complex. In this systematic review and meta-analysis, we determined genetic variants associated with fasting triglyceride (TG) and very-low-density lipoprotein-TG (VLDL-TG) concentrations in European adults.We searched PubMed and the National Human Genome Research Institute-European Bioinformatics Institute (NHGRI-EBI) genome-wide association studies catalog for studies on genetic variants associated with fasting TG and VLDL-TG concentrations. We performed the meta-analysis on 23 variants from studies that met our criteria. A fixed-effects model was applied, with a random-effects model used when significant heterogeneity was detected. The Ensembl Variant Effect Predictor was used to annotate these variants.Overall, 157 studies were included, of which 130 were used for meta-analysis. Overall, 1837 variants were related to fasting TG and/or VLDL-TG (P ≤ .05). Our meta-analysis revealed 11 genetic variants associated with fasting TG: rs58542926 in the transmembrane 6 superfamily member 2 (TM6SF2) gene, rs738409 in the patatin-like phospholipase domain-containing protein 3 (PNPLA3) gene, rs7903146 in the transcription factor 7-like 2 (TCF7L2) gene, rs320 and rs328 in the lipoprotein lipase (LPL) gene, and rs1801282 in the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ2 (PPARγ2) gene were associated with lower TG concentrations, while rs693 in the apolipoprotein-B (APOB) gene, rs5128 in the apolipoprotein-c3 (APOC3) gene, rs662799 in the apolipoprotein A-V (APOA5) gene, rs662 in the paraoxonase 1 (PON1) gene, and rs1800588 in the hepatic lipase C (LIPC) gene were associated with higher TG concentrations. Five of those (rs58542926, rs738409, rs320, rs328, and rs1801282) were predicted to be deleterious to the protein function.This study identified variants associated with fasting TG and/or VLDL-TG concentrations in European adults, which may help in identifying genetically susceptible individuals and strengthening the accuracy of genetic risk prediction for TG-related outcomes.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Hypertriglyceridemia is a prevalent lipid disorder associated with residual atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) risk and increased risk of acute pancreatitis at triglyceride (TG) levels above 1000 mg/dL. Causes of hypertriglyceridemia are multifactorial and may be a result of secondary causes (Western diet, alcohol, medications, uncontrolled diseases/disorders), genetic disorders, or a combination of both. Two novel medications (olezarsen, plozasiran), which inhibit hepatic production of apoC-III mRNA and increase TG clearance, have recently been approved to reduce TG levels in adults with familial chylomicronemia syndrome (FCS). Both olezarsen and plozasiran have been evaluated in randomized, placebo-controlled, clinical trials in patients with varying degrees of hypertriglyceridemia. In this review, we report the lipid-lowering effects and safety of both olezarsen and plozasiran from clinical trials in patients with hypertriglyceridemia. Based on available data, both agents are associated with significant TG-lowering effects via reductions in apoC-III, as well as favorable effects on other lipid parameters. Overall, both agents appear generally well tolerated, although monitoring of liver enzymes and glycemic control is warranted for both agents, and additional monitoring of platelet counts for olezarsen. Future clinical trials are needed to assess whether the TG-lowering effects of each agent are associated with reduced risk of pancreatitis and ASCVD events.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42567788 is a review article
The utilization of plant protein in aquafeeds to reduce dependence on fishmeal has become an important strategy for improving the sustainability of marine aquaculture. This study investigated the effects of low-fishmeal plant protein diets on growth performance and gut-liver molecular responses in large yellow croaker. A total of 2,048 fish were fed two diets for 206 days: a commercial-like control diet containing 280 g/kg fishmeal (C group) and a low-fishmeal diet containing 100 g/kg fishmeal with increased inclusion of plant protein sources (P group). Growth trials indicated that fish in the C group had significantly higher weight gain rate and specific growth rate than those in the P group (p < 0.001). Transcriptomic analysis identified 546 and 724 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in the hindgut and liver, respectively. Hindgut DEGs were mainly enriched in pathways associated with lipid metabolism, immune responses, and signal transduction, whereas liver DEGs were primarily involved in lipid metabolism, immune regulation, and apoptosis. Several pathways, including fat digestion and absorption, complement and coagulation cascades, taurine and hypotaurine metabolism, antigen processing and presentation, and cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, were enriched in both tissues, suggesting coordinated gut-liver regulation. Representative genes involved in lipid metabolism and immune regulation, including apob, scarb1, c3, b2m, and ccr9, exhibited tissue-specific and coordinated expression changes. PPI network analysis further identified c3, scarb1, vwf, and apob as key regulatory nodes potentially involved in coordinated metabolic and immune adaptation. Collectively, these findings provide new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying gut-liver adaptation to plant-based diets in marine fish.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42560404 is a review article
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42559774
Apolipoprotein B (ApoB) is widely recognized as a biomarker significantly associated with cardiovascular risk. However, the correlation between ApoB and the severity of coronary artery anatomical stenosis (Gensini score) in individuals aged 45 and above has not been fully studied.A cross-sectional retrospective analysis was conducted, involving 818 patients who underwent coronary angiography. Fasting blood samples were collected to measure lipid parameters, including ApoB. The severity of coronary artery stenosis was assessed using the Gensini score, and patients were divided into two groups based on the median cut-off (<36 vs. ≥ 36). A multivariate regression model was used to evaluate the association between ApoB and the severity of stenosis after adjusting for potential confounding factors.Compared to the mild stenosis group (Gensini score < 36), the moderate-to-severe stenosis group (score ≥ 36) had significantly higher levels of ApoB (1.0 ± 0.3 vs. 0.9 ± 0.3 g/L) and LDL-c (p < 0.05), while HDL-c and ApoA levels were lower (p < 0.001). Multivariate regression analysis indicated that ApoB was independently associated with moderate-to-severe coronary stenosis (β = 46.1, 95% CI: 31.3-61.0 p < 0.001). Sensitivity analysis using continuous Gensini score confirmed the association (β = 22.57, 95% CI: 13.67-31.47, p < 0.0001). Dose-response analysis revealed that higher ApoB tertiles were associated with progressively higher Gensini scores (P for trend = 0.001). Stratified analysis revealed a consistent positive correlation between ApoB and Gensini scores across all clinical subgroups (all p < 0.05), with no significant interactions detected (all P for interaction > 0.05).ApoB levels are significantly positively correlated with the severity of coronary artery stenosis in the population aged ≥ 45 years, indicating its potential clinical application value in evaluation.Copyright © 2026 Dingchao Lv et al. Cardiovascular Therapeutics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42552212
Familial dysbetalipoproteinemia (FDB) is a genetic lipoprotein disorder that can develop in patients homozygous for the apolipoprotein 2 (APOE2) genotype (APOE ɛ2/ɛ2). It is associated with decreased clearance of remnant lipoproteins and increased atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) risk disproportionate to low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol level. A goal of this study was to develop a screening test for the ɛ2/ɛ2 genotype based on routinely available lipid tests and to determine those at most risk for ASCVD.After assembly of a primary prevention cohort from the UK Biobank (n = 298 249), gene array and exome data were utilized to classify patients as being ɛ2/ɛ2 genotype positive or negative. Lipid profiles and apolipoprotein B‎ (APOB) levels were extracted and the number of ASCVD events was tabulated during a 15-year follow-up period.Using a newly developed equation for estimating APOB (eAPOB) with lipid panel test results, the ratio of measured APOB to eAPOB was better than any other individual lipid test or ratio for identifying patients with the ɛ2/ɛ2 genotype [area under the curve‎ (AUC): APOB/eAPOB: 0.990 (0.986-0.994), nonhigh-density lipoprotein cholesterol/APOB: 0.961 (0.952-0.970), APOB: 0.955 (0.949-0.961), very low-density lipoproteins/triglycerides: 0.788 (0.771-0.804)]. Most ɛ2/ɛ2 patients could be identified with the APOB/eAPOB ratio regardless of their FDB phenotype status. The PCE or PREVENT risk equations were the most accurate method for identifying higher risk patients [AUC: PREVENT: 0.690 (0.637-0.742), PCE: 0.697 (0.645-0.749)].The APOB/eAPOB ratio can be used to accurately identify the ɛ2/ɛ2 genotype and conventional risk equations are the best method for determining those at risk for ASCVD.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Association for Diagnostics & Laboratory Medicine.
Sarcopenia is increasingly linked to metabolic dysregulation, including dyslipidemia. The low-density lipoprotein cholesterol with apolipoprotein B (LDL-C/ApoB) ratio (LAR), reflecting cholesterol content per atherogenic lipoprotein particle, may serve as a novel biomarker for sarcopenia risk. This study aimed to investigate the association between LAR and sarcopenia using data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES).Data from NHANES cycles 2011-2016 were analyzed between July 2024 and February 2025. Sarcopenia was defined using dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA)-derived appendicular lean mass (ALM) standardized to body mass index (BMI). Multivariable logistic regression, restricted cubic spline (RCS) regression analysis, subgroup analysis, and interaction tests were applied to evaluate the relationship between LAR and sarcopenia, adjusting for covariates.A negative correlation between LAR and sarcopenia was observed in 3,235 participants included in the study (OR = 0.399, 95% CI: 0.224-0.712, p = 0.007), which was further confirmed to be non-linear via RCS regression analysis (p non-linear = 0.037), with one significant inflection point identified, and participants with LAR ≥ 1.268 demonstrated a significantly reduced risk of sarcopenia. Subgroup analyses and interaction tests indicated that the association between LAR and sarcopenia remained consistent across different subgroups and was not modified by other covariates.Elevated LAR is significantly associated with lower sarcopenia risk, suggesting its potential role as a biomarker for muscle health. Further studies are needed to elucidate underlying mechanisms and validate these findings prospectively.Copyright © 2025 Termedia & Banach.
The cardiovascular risk of metabolically healthy obesity (MHO) remains controversial. Discordance between apolipoprotein B (apoB) and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) reflects residual atherogenic risk.We aimed to evaluate whether apoB-LDL-C discordance improves cardiovascular risk stratification across metabolic phenotypes.We analyzed 15,738 adults (median age 37 years; 86.3% men) who underwent repeated coronary artery calcium (CAC) assessments. MHO was defined as body mass index ≥25 kg/m2 without metabolic syndrome components. ApoB-LDL-C discordance was assessed using a residual-based approach. Logistic regression was used to evaluate associations with CAC progression.Over a median follow-up of 6 (IQR, 4-9) years, 3072 participants (19.5%) experienced CAC progression. MHO was associated with higher CAC progression risk than metabolically healthy lean (MHL) (odds ratio [OR], 1.26; 95% CI, 1.03-1.53). Within metabolically healthy groups, apoB discordance further stratified risk: MHO with discordantly high apoB showed increased CAC progression risk (OR, 1.74; 95% CI, 1.13-2.66), comparable to metabolically unhealthy phenotypes, whereas discordantly low apoB showed no excess risk (OR, 1.03; 95% CI, 0.71-1.48). High discordance was also associated with increased risk in MHL (OR, 1.73; 95% CI, 1.02-2.92) and predicted transition to metabolically unhealthy status in MHO (OR, 1.62; 95% CI, 1.12-2.35).ApoB-LDL-C discordance refines cardiovascular risk stratification within metabolically healthy phenotypes. High discordance identifies individuals at increased risk of CAC progression and metabolic deterioration, supporting its role in early risk assessment beyond traditional metabolic criteria.Copyright © 2026 National Lipid Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Apolipoprotein B (apoB) is the most accurate causal lipid factor associated with increased risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD). While high HDL cholesterol has been considered protective, HDL-C-raising therapies have not shown benefit.To assess whether HDL-C provides independent information from apoB and whether HDL-C modifies the effect of apoB on ASCVD risk.293,872 UK Biobank participants aged 37-73, free of CVD, not on lipid-lowering medication, and with complete standard risk factor data were followed for 10 years for incident ASCVD. Cox proportional hazard models, adjusted for standard risk factors, including log-triglycerides, used apoB and HDL-C residuals (regressed on each other) as primary exposures. Interaction between apoB and HDL-C was tested separately.When HDL-C residual was added to a model with apoB, both were significant: HRs per 1 SD were 1.16 (95% CI: 1.15-1.18; p < 0.001) for apoB and 0.85 (95% CI: 0.84-0.87; p < 0.001) for HDL-C residual. Similarly, adding apoB residual to a model with HDL-C yielded HRs of 1.14 (95% CI: 1.12-1.16; p < 0.001) for apoB residual and 0.84 (95% CI: 0.82-0.85; p < 0.001) for HDL-C. The apoB-HDL-C interaction was significant: HR 0.95 (95% CI: 0.93-0.96; p < 0.001), consistent across sexes.High HDL-C is associated with lower ASCVD risk, independent of apoB, and it attenuates the effect of high apoB on ASCVD risk. These findings suggest HDL-C's role in primary ASCVD prevention warrants re-evaluation. However, findings from an observational study, such as this, do not establish causation.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology.
Chronic fatty acid (FA) elevation drives metabolic dysfunction-associated liver disease (MASLD). Hepatocytes buffer transient lipid overload via coordinated adaptive mechanisms, but the temporal limits of this capacity remain undefined.We characterized early, intermediate, and prolonged hepatocellular responses to sustained lipid excess.HuH7 hepatocytes were exposed to an equimolar palmitic/oleic acid (PA/OA) mixture for 1, 14, or 28 days. Viability, lipid accumulation, stress-response pathways, insulin signaling, metabolic regulators, mitochondrial markers, [14C]-PA uptake, and exo-metabolomic profiles were assessed (n≥3/group). Data (mean ± SEM) were analyzed by two-way ANOVA with Bonferroni post hoc testing; cumulative cell death by linear regression. P<0.05 was significant.FA treatment increased lipid droplet accumulation 1.4- to 1.7-fold vs. time-matched BSA controls at all time points (p<0.001) and increased the rate of cumulative cell death ∼4.3-fold (1.556±0.083 vs. 0.365±0.054%/day, p<0.001). Exo-metabolomic PCA explained 88.5% of variance (Q2=0.758), with peak lactate release at Day 14 and progressively rising acetate through Day 28. [14C]-PA accumulation at Day 28 was ∼30% lower than Day 1 (∼800 vs. ∼500 cpm/mg protein), with a declining rather than plateauing profile between 20-60 s. By Day 28, FA-treated cells showed lower FASN (p<0.001), CD36 (p<0.05), FABP1 (p<0.001), SIRT1 (p<0.005), and CLOCK (p<0.01) protein levels, and higher CPT1A (p<0.001), pAMPK/AMPK (p<0.01), p53 (p<0.001), Bax/Bcl2 (p<0.005), and respiratory complex I-V abundance (p<0.05-p<0.001) vs. controls.Sustained PA/OA exposure induces a staged hepatocellular response, early lipid-buffering adaptation, intermediate metabolic compensation, and late decompensation, indicating that chronic lipotoxicity reflects progressive loss of regulatory coordination despite persistent metabolic adaptation.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565567 is a review article
Acupuncture therapy shows promise for polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), but its molecular mechanisms remain unclear. This study investigates whether acupuncture alleviates PCOS by regulating granulosa cell (GC) ferroptosis via extracellular vesicles (EVs).Bioinformatic analysis of KGN cell transcriptome data identified heme oxygenase-1 (HMOX1) as a key candidate. Its role was validated in a PCOS rat model and GCs using RT-qPCR, western blot, and immunohistochemistry. Ferroptosis was assessed via malondialdehyde (MDA), glutathione (GSH), and ferroptosis-related proteins (GPX4, FTH1, SLC7A11, NCOA4). HMOX1 gain/loss-of-function, rescue experiments (ferrostatin-1), and transmission electron microscopy defined its function. PCOS rats received acupuncture for 4 weeks; ovarian function and ferroptosis markers were analyzed. EVs from follicular fluid were characterized, and miRNA candidates targeting HMOX1 were screened. The EV-miRNA mechanism was tested via co-culture and inhibition assays.HMOX1 was upregulated in PCOS. Its overexpression induced ferroptosis and impaired GC proliferation, reversible by ferrostatin-1. Acupuncture improved ovarian histology and oocyte maturation, concurrently normalizing HMOX1 and ferroptosis markers. It specifically enriched miR-873-5p in EVs. These EVs delivered miR-873-5p to GCs, downregulating HMOX1 and alleviating ferroptosis, an effect blocked by miR-873-5p inhibition.Acupuncture mitigates PCOS by promoting EV-mediated transfer of miR-873-5p, which targets HMOX1 to inhibit GC ferroptosis and restore ovarian function. This identifies a novel acupuncture-EV-miRNA-HMOX1-ferroptosis axis as a therapeutic mechanism for PCOS.Copyright © 2026 Wu, Li, Wang, Guo, Chen, Chen, Huang and Zhou.
Short-chain chlorinated paraffins (SCCPs), ubiquitous persistent organic pollutants, have been increasingly implicated in metabolic disorders; however, their developmental effects on hepatic lipid metabolism in offspring remain poorly understood. This study aimed to investigate whether gestational SCCPs exposure induces hepatic lipid accumulation in adult offspring and elucidate the underlying mechanisms. Pregnant C57BL/6J mice were orally administered SCCPs (0, 1, 10, or 100 mg/kg) from gestational day 0 (GD0) to GD18. At 12 weeks of age, male offspring exposed to the medium dose of SCCPs developed pronounced hepatic steatosis, as evidenced by increased hepatic and serum triglyceride levels and excessive lipid droplet accumulation, whereas female offspring exhibited no significant alterations, indicating a sex-specific and non-monotonic dose-response pattern. Mechanistically, gestational SCCPs exposure markedly upregulated key regulators involved in fatty acid uptake and triglyceride synthesis, including CD36, GPAT4, and DGAT2. In vitro, serum from medium-dose SCCPs-exposed adult male offspring induced lipid accumulation in AML12 hepatocytes, which was significantly attenuated by pharmacological inhibition of CD36. Furthermore, gestational SCCPs exposure was associated with increased PPAR-γ/CD36 pathway in vivo and in vitro, whereas pharmacological inhibition of PPAR-γ suppressed CD36 expression and alleviated lipid accumulation in hepatocytes. Collectively, these findings suggest that gestational SCCPs exposure promotes male-specific hepatic steatosis in adult offspring potentially through PPAR-γ-mediated enhancement of fatty acid uptake and triglyceride synthesis, providing new evidence that early-life SCCPs exposure can developmentally program long-term hepatic metabolic dysfunction.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Osteoporosis is a prevalent metabolic bone disease characterized by heterogeneous molecular mechanisms. Emerging evidence implicates that natural killer cells and immunomodulator-related genes (NIRGs) were involved in its pathogenesis; however, systematic exploration of NIRGs remains limited.To explore the role of natural killer (NK) cells and immunomodulator-related differentially expressed genes (NIRDEGs) in osteoporosis.Two osteoporosis datasets (GSE56815 and GSE7429) were integrated after batch effect correction and normalization. Natural killer cell-related genes (NRGs) and immunomodulator-related genes (IRGs) were curated from GeneCards. And NIRDEGs were identified by intersecting co-differentially expressed genes (Co-DEGs) across datasets. Functional enrichment (GO, KEGG, GSEA, GSVA) and immune infiltration analyses were performed. Then, diagnostic models were developed using random forest, support vector machine (SVM), and least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression, validated by receiver operating characteristic curves (ROC), and nomograms. Protein-Protein Interaction (PPI) networks and regulatory networks were generated using bioinformatic tools.Twelve NIRDEGs were identified, and they were enriched in regulation of inflammatory response, myeloid cell homeostasis, negative regulation of DNA-binding transcription factor activity, homeostasis of number of cells, and I-κB kinase/NF-κB signaling. A diagnostic model comprising seven genes (IDO1, PTMA, RAB11FIP1, MYH14, HAMP, HMOX1, and ESR1) exhibited moderate accuracy (0.7 < AUC < 0.9). The protein-level expression of the six candidate genes was further validated in osteoporosis medol rats. Specifically, the IDO1 and PTMA was obviously elevated in the osteoporosis rat model, while the RAB11FIP1, MYH14, HAMP, and HMOX1 was markedly decreased. Immune infiltration analysis revealed distinct patterns of 20 immune cell types between high and low BMD groups, especially monocytes, macrophages, and eosinophils. The PPI network indicated that five key genes were interconnected (IDO1, PTMA, HAMP, HMOX1, and ESR1) and that there were 20 functionally related proteins. Regulatory networks highlighted interactions with 26 transcription factors (TFs), 28 miRNAs, 26 RBPs and 32 therapeutic compounds.This study establishes NIRDEGs as critical players in osteoporosis pathogenesis and provides a clinically translatable seven-gene diagnostic model for early osteoporosis detection. The integration of multi-omic analyses uncovered key pathways, immune dynamics, and regulatory networks. These findings provide novel insights into immune-mediated mechanisms and therapeutic targets for osteoporosis management.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a leading cause of cancer mortality, and the mechanisms linking lead exposure to CRC remain unclear. In this study, we integrated population-level association (NHANES), transcriptomic analyses (bulk and single-cell RNA-seq), and genetic evidence to prioritize candidate genes potentially connecting lead exposure and CRC. In NHANES, higher blood lead levels were associated with increased odds of self-reported CRC in the crude and partially adjusted models, but this association was attenuated and no longer statistically significant after full adjustment. Database-driven prioritization combining network toxicology and machine-learning highlighted several candidate genes (HMOX1, IL1B, NLRP3, BCL2, MAPK3, and ALAD). Single-cell RNA-seq and CellChat analyses indicated that HMOX1 is enriched in monocytes/macrophages and may be involved in immune- and oxidative-stress-related signaling within the CRC microenvironment. Exploratory two-sample MR using whole-blood eQTL as an exposure proxy provided genetic evidence consistent with an association between genetically predicted HMOX1 expression and CRC risk. Molecular docking suggested a plausible binding pose of plumbagin within the HMOX1 pocket. Collectively, these results suggest that the crude epidemiologic association between blood lead and CRC prevalence is sensitive to covariate adjustment and generate testable hypotheses implicating HMOX1 for future experimental validation.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) is a major cause of heart failure and sudden cardiac death and has traditionally been regarded as a predominantly monogenic disorder. However, advances in next-generation sequencing have revealed a more complex genetic architecture with increasing recognition of oligogenic and polygenic contributions; particularly in patients presenting with extracardiac manifestations. In such cases, careful phenotypic characterization and integrative interpretation of genetic findings are essential for accurate diagnosis and management.We report the case of a 46-year-old man who presented with progressive exertional dyspnoea (the New York Heart Association class II-III). His medical history was notable for childhood-onset epilepsy, visual impairment, musculoskeletal abnormalities, and infertility. Transthoracic echocardiography demonstrated severe left ventricular dilatation with reduced ejection fraction (20%). Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging confirmed severe biventricular systolic dysfunction and revealed mid-to-basal myocardial fibrosis on late gadolinium enhancement imaging. Given the prominent multisystem involvement and exclusion of secondary causes, a syndromic cardiomyopathy was suspected. Comprehensive genetic testing identified likely pathogenic frameshift variants in the CD36 and TNXB genes, while additional variants of uncertain significance were detected in MT-TK and STXBP1. These findings suggested a potential oligogenic contribution involving pathways related to myocardial energy metabolism and extracellular matrix integrity. Guideline-directed medical therapy for heart failure with reduced ejection fraction was initiated, and the patient was enrolled in multidisciplinary follow-up with genetic counselling for first-degree relatives.This case highlights the limitations of a strictly monogenic framework in DCM and underscores the importance of considering oligogenic mechanisms in patients with syndromic features. Integrative evaluation combining detailed phenotyping, advanced cardiac imaging, and genetic analysis may provide valuable insights into complex cardiomyopathy phenotypes and support personalized clinical management.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42559155 is a review article
Atherosclerosis is characterized by the buildup of fatty plaques that thicken and stiffen arterial walls. Macrophages (Mφs) significantly contribute to this process through their scavenger receptor CD36. PIM1 is a serine/threonine kinase known to modulate immune responses and cell metabolism. However, its role in Mφ lipid handling and atherogenesis is not well defined. This study examines the role of PIM1 in regulating CD36 expression and function in Mφs during foam cell formation and atherosclerosis progression.We performed in vitro studies by treating murine peritoneal Mφs from Pim1-/- and wild-type mice with oxLDL (oxidized low-density lipoprotein). We measured CD36, PIM1, and plaque-associated proteins and mRNA levels, oxLDL binding and uptake rates, and foam cell formation. For in vivo studies, we fed myeloid-specific Pim1-deficient (Apoe-/-Lyz2Cre/+Pim1fl/fl) and their littermate control (Apoe-/-Pim1fl/fl) mice a high-fat diet for 12 weeks. We then evaluated plaque formation in their aortic sinuses and arches.Deletion of Pim1 in Mφs reduced CD36 protein expression by up to 96.7% compared with wild-type controls. This led to a 49.6% decrease in foam cell formation and a 25.5% reduction in cellular cholesterol after oxLDL treatment. Pharmacological inhibition of PIM kinase activity in wild-type Mφs also impaired oxLDL handling, with a 64.5% reduction in binding and a 57.9% reduction in uptake. Bulk RNA-sequencing revealed that Pim1 deficiency downregulated PPARγ (peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma) signaling. Treatment with a PPARγ agonist restored CD36 levels in the Pim1 knockdown Mφs, suggesting that PIM1 regulates CD36 through PPARγ. Moreover, Pim1 myeloid-specific deficiency caused a 69.4% reduction in atherosclerotic plaque formation.PIM1 acts as a key upstream regulator of CD36 by enhancing PPARγ activity in Mφs. The PIM1-CD36 axis promotes oxLDL binding, uptake, and foam cell formation. Targeting the PIM1/PPARγ/CD36 pathway could offer new ways to modulate Mφ lipid metabolism and reduce atherosclerotic plaque progression.
Atherosclerosis (AS), which causes chronic inflammation, aberrant lipid metabolism and vascular endothelial damage, is the main cause of cardiovascular disease. The Ce-Bai-Si-Wei decoction (CSD) may reduce AS, although its molecular mechanisms are unknown. This study investigates core molecular pathways using multi-omics integration and experimental validation.Network pharmacology prediction: Construct a 'drug-component-target-disease' interaction network using databases like TCMSP, HIT and ETCM to identify active components and targets of CSD. AS regulatory targets and signalling pathways can be identified by integrating microarray data and single-cell transcriptomics data. In vitro validation: Utilise the OX-LDL-induced model of macrophage foam cells to test CSD's effects on lipid accumulation utilising CCK-8, Oil Red O and TC/TG quantification. Validate CSD's regulatory effects on core targets using molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulation, RT-qPCR and Western blot.Four core genes, HMOX1, SELE, CD4 and FLT1, were identified as key regulators of inflammation and oxidative stress in AS, and they bind stably to the active components of CSD. Single-cell data analysis suggested that CSD may improve AS by targeting macrophages and endothelial cells. In vitro, CSD reduced ox-LDL-induced lipid accumulation in macrophages and downregulated TNF-α and IL-1β. Mechanistically, the anti-AS effect of CSD depends on the NRF2/HMOX1 pathway. CSD also downregulated FLT1 and SELE in damaged endothelial cells.This study investigated the mechanism of CSD in treating AS. CSD acts on the core targets HMOX1, SELE, FLT1 and CD4, with macrophages and endothelial cells as key effector cells. It exerts anti-AS effects by inhibiting inflammation, reducing lipid accumulation and protecting endothelial function.Copyright © 2026 Wanlu Sheng et al. Journal of Diabetes Research published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Primary cutaneous T-lymphomas (CTCL), particularly in their early stages, frequently present with clinical and histopathologic features that overlap with atopic dermatitis (AD) and psoriasis, contributing to diagnostic delay and ineffective, or even deleterious, treatment approaches. Thus, minimally invasive molecular tests capable of distinguishing CTCL from benign inflammatory dermatoses are urgently needed.To determine whether tape strip transcriptomics can detect disease-specific signatures distinguishing early-stage CTCL from AD, psoriasis, and healthy control (HC) skin.Bulk RNA sequencing was performed on lesional and non-lesional tape strips from patients with mycosis fungoides (MF) (n=18), AD (n=36), psoriasis (n=32), and HC skin (n=30).Principal component analysis revealed distinct clustering of MF, AD, and psoriasis lesional skin relative to HC. MF displayed a mixed immune profile, contrasting with the strong Th2 and Th17/Th22 immune polarization of AD and psoriasis, respectively. Upregulated MF genes were involved in immune checkpoint regulation (CTLA4, ICOS), lymphoid trafficking (CCR7, CCR8), antigen presentation (HLA-DRA, LAMP3), T-cell survival (TNFSF13B, BIRC3), metabolism (BCAT1, ENPP4, LIPA), as well as cell structure and homeostasis (CLIC2, DOCK10, EPB41L3, MCOLN2, MS4A14, S100B). We identified a 5-marker gene classifier (including IL36A) that accurately distinguished MF from both AD and psoriasis, which was validated in an independent dataset.By capturing MF-specific signatures that are distinct from AD and psoriasis, tape stripping has the potential to serve as a diagnostic tool to help differentiate MF from its non-malignant mimickers.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Metabolism is critical for immune cell functions. Tumours shape their microenvironment to render it metabolically hostile for infiltrating immune cells. While targeting immunometabolism emerges as a promising way to reinvigorate anticancer immunity, a deeper understanding of the metabolic disturbances of immune cells is needed. Here, we explored how the metabolic status of T cells governs immune skewing from circulating and tumour-infiltrating CD4+ and CD8+ T cells of melanoma patients at a single-cell level using the SCENITH method and targeted metabolomics. Circulating and tumour-infiltrating T cells from patients displayed a decreased mitochondrial dependency associated with an enhanced glycolytic capacity and a skewed metabolic reprogramming upon stimulation. Such metabolic disturbances were linked to the activation status, immune checkpoint profile and functional orientation of T cells, underlining critical connections between T-cell features and metabolic patterns. Targeted metabolomics within sorted CD4+/CD8+ T cells identified a decrease in citrulline, cysteine and threonine within all subsets in patients, together with a sharp rise in sterol cholesterol CE(20:2) and ceramide dhCer(d18:0/22:0) within tumour-infiltrating CD4+ T cells, and in glycerolipid DG(16:0/16:0) within CD8+ T cells in blood and tumour. We further outlined a metabolic-checkpoint-based signature composed of six genes coding enzymes/transporters connected to the imbalanced metabolites found within tumour-infiltrating T cells (LIPA, DGKA, GLUL, SLC38A1, SLC7A7, GCH1) that shape patients' clinical outcome. These findings outline the skewed bioenergetic profiles of T cells and depict metabolic checkpoints associated with immune subversion. Harnessing metabolic pathways is promising for developing innovative therapies to restore optimal anti-tumour responses and improve clinical success.© 2026 The Author(s). Immunology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Hepatitis C virus (HCV) depends on host lipid metabolism and lipid droplets (LDs) for genome replication, assembly, and particle production, yet how LD structure and lipid utilization change over the course of infection remains incompletely understood. Here, we investigated the temporal remodeling of LD-associated metabolic pathways during HCV JFH-1 infection of human hepatoma Huh7 cells. HCV infection transiently increased LD fluorescence intensity at 24 hours post-infection (hpi), followed by normalization or relative loss of LD signal at later time points. Concomitantly, LDs became progressively clustered and enlargement during late infection, despite reduced protein levels of the canonical LD fusion proteins CIDEA, CIDEB, and CIDEC, suggesting that HCV-induced LD enlargement occurs through CIDE-independent mechanisms. Transcriptomic, RT-qPCR, and immunoblot analyses revealed time-dependent regulation of genes and proteins involved in LD structure, triglyceride synthesis, lipolysis, lipid uptake, and mitochondrial fatty acid utilization. Subcellular fractionation demonstrated preferential accumulation of fatty acids in mitochondrial fractions at 24-72 hpi. This redistribution was accompanied by increased oxygen consumption rate, elevated extracellular acidification, and progressive reactive oxygen species accumulation, indicating infection-associated metabolic activation and oxidative stress. Pharmacological inhibition of DGAT1-dependent LD biogenesis, LIPA-dependent lysosomal lipid hydrolysis, LIPE/HSL-dependent lipolysis, or CPT1-dependent mitochondrial fatty acid transport markedly reduced mitochondrial fatty acid accumulation and suppressed HCV-induced respiratory activity. Inhibition of LIPA or LIPE/HSL reduced both HCV RNA and core protein levels, whereas inhibition of CPT1 or DGAT1 had more pronounced effects on core protein than on viral RNA. Together, these findings support a model in which HCV dynamically remodels LDs, mobilizes LD-associated fatty acids, and redirects them toward mitochondria to support infection-associated metabolism and downstream stages of the viral life cycle. Lipid hydrolysis and mitochondrial fatty acid trafficking therefore represent potential host-directed targets for limiting HCV infection.Hepatitis C virus depends on host lipid metabolism for replication, assembly, and production of infectious particles, but how it uses lipid droplets over time remains incompletely understood. This study shows that hepatitis C virus dynamically remodels lipid droplets, causing an early increase in lipid storage followed by droplet enlargement and mobilization of fatty acids during later infection. The released fatty acids preferentially accumulate in mitochondria, where they are associated with increased cellular respiration and oxidative stress. Blocking lipid droplet formation, lipid breakdown, or fatty acid transport to mitochondria reduced this metabolic response and decreased viral RNA or core protein accumulation. Inhibition of lysosomal acid lipase and hormone-sensitive lipase suppressed both viral RNA and protein levels. These findings identify lipid droplet breakdown and mitochondrial fatty acid trafficking as important host processes used by hepatitis C virus and as potential targets for host-directed antiviral intervention.
Sleep, sedentary behavior (SB), light-intensity physical activity (LIPA), and moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA) collectively constitute a 24-h day. This study used compositional data analysis (CoDA), an approach appropriate for data composed of mutually exclusive parts of a whole, to examine the associations of 24-h movement behaviors with pre-diabetes phenotypes (isolated-impaired fasting plasma glucose [i-IFG], isolated-impaired glucose tolerance [i-IGT], and combined IFG + IGT) and diabetes.This cross-sectional study analyzed 1222 participants from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 2005-2006. Time spent in SB, LIPA, and MVPA was measured via accelerometer, and sleep duration was determined via self-report. The glycemic status was classified as normoglycemia, pre-diabetes (i-IFG, i-IGT, or combined IFG + IGT), or diabetes based on the American Diabetes Association criteria. The CoDA was performed, adjusting for age, sex, education, and smoking status.The study sample had a mean age of 41.02 (SD = 12.97) years and comprised 47.22% males. On average, participants spent 6.8 h in sleep, 9.4 h in SB, 7.3 h in LIPA, and 0.5 h in MVPA over a 24-h day. None of the four movement behaviors was associated with i-IFG (all p > 0.05). In contrast, SB was detrimentally associated with i-IGT (OR [95% CI] = 3.49 [1.10, 11.09], p = 0.038), and MVPA was favorably associated with combined IFG + IGT (OR [95% CI] = 0.57 [0.45, 0.71], p < 0.001). For diabetes, more time spent in sleep (OR [95% CI] = 0.47 [0.25, 0.88], p = 0.025) or MVPA (OR [95% CI] = 0.55 [0.39, 0.77], p = 0.005), and less time spent in SB (OR [95% CI] = 2.33 [1.07, 5.08], p = 0.037), were each associated with lower odds.Findings of this study provide insights for the development of integrated 24-h movement recommendations to optimize diabetes prevention and management. Notably, the associations with 24-h movement behaviors appeared to differ across distinct pre-diabetes phenotypes, providing preliminary evidence for precision prevention strategies.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Self-harm is a pressing public health issue, particularly among adolescents. Physical activity is associated with reduced self-harm among youths, but evidence is limited. Most studies rely on self-reported measures and are primarily focused on moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA), often overlooking the role of light-intensity physical activity (LIPA). To address these gaps, we investigated the prospective associations between accelerometer-measured 24-hr movements and subsequent self-harm in adolescents.This prospective cohort investigation analysed 2,016 children from the UK Millennium Cohort Study using data from the age 7 years survey (MCS4) when accelerometers were introduced (mean age = 7.23 years, SD = 0.25). Accelerometer-measured duration of MVPA, LIPA, sedentary behaviour (SB), and sleep were analysed. Self-harm behaviours were assessed via validated self-report questionnaires at ages 14 and 17 years, and subsequently, the associations examined using logistic and compositional data models.Among 2,016 participants (48.6% female), 548 self-harm cases occurred during 18,696 person-years of follow-up, with a median follow-up duration of 8.5 years (cumulative incidence = 27.2%). LIPA was inversely associated with self-harm (OR 0.76, 95% CI: 0.65-0.88). This association was stronger in compositional models (OR 0.23, 95% CI: 0.11-0.47). MVPA showed a significant non-linear, inverted U-shaped association with self-harm (p for non-linearity = .02). The risk peaked at approximately 1.2 hr/day and decreased substantially at levels exceeding 1.7 hr/day, while SB and sleep were not significantly associated with self-harm. Stratified analyses confirmed robustness.Our findings reveal a pronounced inverse association between LIPA and self-harm, along with a non-linear association for MVPA. These results support 24-hr movement guidelines that emphasise activity transitions over isolated targets and highlight LIPA's role in early prevention strategies.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Association for Child and Adolescent Mental Health.
Atherosclerosis shows vascular bed specificity, yet research has focused on coronary arteries, leaving the causal genetics and immune cell-specific mechanisms of carotid plaque (CP) unexplored. This study aims to unbiasedly identify CP candidate genes and evaluate their therapeutic potential.Two-sample MR analysis was performed using data from 14 peripheral blood immune cell types and two GWAS datasets for carotid plaque, followed by colocalization analysis to prioritize causal genes. A human carotid plaque single-cell RNA-seq dataset was then integrated to examine cellular expression patterns, cell-cell communication, and functional enrichment. In vitro experiments using THP-1-derived macrophages and Jurkat T cells were conducted to validate the function of the key gene. Molecular docking and PheWAS were employed to evaluate its translational potential and possible pleiotropic associations.22 candidate genes for CP were identified. LIPA_Mono_C showed a consistent causal association with increased CP risk in two independent GWAS datasets. Single-cell RNA sequencing confirmed that LIPA was highly expressed in mononuclear phagocytes of CP tissues, and CellChat analysis suggested a potential SPP1-CD44-mediated interaction between LIPA-expressing mononuclear phagocytes and T cells. In silico knockout of LIPA revealed significant enrichment of the complement and coagulation cascades. In vitro experiments verified that oxidized low-density lipoprotein upregulated LIPA in macrophages in a time- and dose-dependent manner. LIPA knockdown alleviated lipid accumulation, suppressed complement activation, attenuated SPP1 expression, and reduced SPP1/CD44-associated T-cell functional readouts in vitro. Additionally, dorsomorphin reduced oxLDL-induced LIPA upregulation and lipid accumulation in macrophages.Our integrative genetic and transcriptomic approach prioritizes LIPA as a mononuclear phagocyte-enriched candidate gene for CP. Functional and computational analyses suggest that LIPA may be associated with lipid accumulation, complement-related activation, and SPP1-CD44-associated immune regulation in vitro. These findings provide preliminary evidence supporting the translational relevance of LIPA-related modulation, pending further validation.Copyright © 2026 Yu, Mao, Song, Meng, Yu, Zong, Gao and Chen.
Human papillomavirus (HPV) epidemiological data from Pakistan remain limited, particularly in unscreened and unvaccinated populations. We performed a cross-sectional study in Karachi, Pakistan, to determine overall type- and age-specific HPV prevalence between May 2022 and November 2023. A total of 3119 women were invited to participate; 497 women gave consent, provided cervical samples and were included in the final analysis. HPV detection and genotyping were done using the highly sensitive INNO-LiPA HPV Genotyping Extra II line probe assay. Overall HPV prevalence was 16.7%. High-risk (HR) HPV types (counted once per genotype within IARC groups 1, 2A and 2B) were detected in 11.8% of women, and low-risk or unclassified types in 5.0%. Single HR-HPV infections occurred in 8.4% and multiple HR-HPV infections in 3.4%. Fourteen HR genotypes were detected as single infections, with HPV31 and HPV53 (1.2% each) being most prevalent, followed by HPV68 (1.0%), HPV16 (0.8%), and HPV33/HPV39/HPV51 (0.6% each). Less frequent types included HPV82 and HPV18 (0.4% each), and HPV35/HPV70/HPV73 (0.2% each). The most prevalent low-risk type was HPV6 (1.2%). HPV prevalence peaked in women aged 25-34 years (21.4%) and remained detectable in women above 54 years (12.5%). These data indicate a substantial and genetically diverse HR-HPV burden in Karachi. They support organized HPV-based cervical cancer screening using high-performance assays that detect the full panel of carcinogenic HPV types, with adequate triage and follow-up. They also support rapid scale-up and monitoring of HPV vaccination in Pakistan, including assessment of broader-valency vaccination strategies where feasible, to reduce cervical cancer, pre-cancerous lesions and other HPV-related cancers.© 2026 The Authors.
Pathogen spread is a major driver of wild and managed bee decline, with shared floral resources often serving as transmission hubs. However, the abundance of floral resources changes throughout the season, potentially altering bee visitation rate per flower. This could affect pathogen transmission by influencing both the likelihood of pathogen deposition on flowers and of new hosts encountering pathogens. We assessed the effect of peak bloom timing on transmission of a bumble bee (Bombus impatiens Cresson) (Hymenoptera: Apidae) pathogen (Crithidia bombi Lipa & Triggiani) in a 2-wk tent experiment. We manipulated floral abundance using Monarda fistulosa L to provide more flowers either in the first week (early peak bloom) or second week (late peak bloom). Each tent received 1 infected (donor) and 1 uninfected (recipient) microcolony. We recorded floral visitation, and after 2 wk, assessed infection prevalence and intensity in both microcolonies. We found that peak bloom timing affected donor bee infection, but not transmission to recipient bees. Donor infection intensity was lower when bees had more flowers available early than late in the experiment. However, peak bloom timing did not affect the probability of infection in donor or recipient microcolonies, or the intensity of infection of recipient microcolonies. Furthermore, donor probability of infection and recipient infection intensity were positively related to inflorescence visitation rates in the second week. These results suggest that peak bloom timing could influence bee-pathogen dynamics by altering visitation rates per flower, highlighting the importance of phenological changes in plant-pollinator interactions for pollinator health.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Entomological Society of America. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
University students' 24-h movement behaviours, including moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA), light-intensity physical activity (LIPA), sedentary behaviour (SB), and sleep (SLP), are interdependent and may jointly shape physical fitness. However, their combined relationship with physical fitness remains unclear, as most previous studies have focused on single behaviours or variable-centred associations and have rarely identified latent subgroups based on multidimensional behavioural patterns. Therefore, this study aimed to identify latent categories of 24-h movement behaviour patterns among university students using latent profile analysis (LPA), characterise these categories, and further examine their associations with physical fitness.A total of 5,849 university students aged 18-23 years were recruited from 12 universities in Tianjin, China, including 2,267 males and 3,582 females. Time spent in MVPA, LIPA, SB, and SLP was assessed using the Chinese versions of the International Physical Activity Questionnaire and the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index. Physical fitness was evaluated according to the National Student Physical Fitness Standard (2014 Revised Edition), and total physical fitness score was used as the outcome variable. Latent profile analysis (LPA) was conducted separately by sex to identify 24-h movement behaviour patterns, and the BCH approach was used to compare differences in total physical fitness scores across latent classes.A four-class model was identified as the optimal solution for both sexes. Among males, the four profiles were low-activity / long-sleep (9.88%), higher light-intensity activity / low-sedentary (29.16%), low-activity / high-sedentary (52.89%), and high-activity / low-sedentary (8.07%). Among females, the four profiles were higher light-intensity activity / low-sedentary (13.51%), low-activity / long-sleep (12.98%), low-activity / high-sedentary / short-sleep (68.48%), and high-activity / low-sedentary (5.03%). Significant overall differences in total physical fitness scores were observed across latent classes in both males (χ² = 30.435, P < 0.001) and females (χ² = 26.215, P < 0.001). In both sexes, profiles characterised by lower sedentary behaviour and greater daily movement tended to show more favourable physical fitness scores, whereas low-activity and high-sedentary profiles showed poorer performance.University students showed clear heterogeneity in 24-h movement behaviour patterns, and these patterns were significantly associated with physical fitness. These findings support the development of sex-specific and profile-based intervention strategies to improve physical fitness among university students.© 2026. The Author(s).
Lysosomal acid lipase (LIPA), one of the earliest and most impactful genetic factors linked to human coronary artery diseases, is highly expressed in macrophages despite predominant hepatic production. However, the functional importance of LIPA in macrophages remained largely unknown. Notably, individuals with atherosclerosis-risk alleles demonstrate elevated LIPA expression in monocytes and macrophages, but lower levels in liver and plasma, indicating a potential macrophage-specific regulatory role of LIPA on atherosclerosis. The development of atherosclerosis in genetic models lacking LIPA has presented challenges. To investigate whether macrophage LIPA influences atherosclerosis, we established Lipa-deficient mice on an Apoe-/- background. Lipa-/-Apoe-/- mice developed hepatosplenomegaly and enhanced myelopoiesis after being fed a high-fat diet, which aligns with observations in human Lipa deficiency. Unexpectedly, both Lipa+/-Apoe-/- and Lipa-/-Apoe-/- mice showed significantly attenuated atherosclerosis. This protection was recapitulated in Apoe-/- recipients reconstituted with bone marrow from either Lipa+/-Apoe-/- or Lipa-/-Apoe-/- donors. Mechanistically, such atheroprotection was linked to a notable reduction in foam cell formation and macrophage accumulation within plaques. Homozygous deficiency suppressed foam cells via impaired monocyte development and CD36 downregulation, whereas heterozygosity primarily decreased CD36 expression. In vitro, Lipa-/- macrophages exhibited diminished lipid uptake and CD36 expression, both reversed by Lipa re-expression. Notably, reduced Lipa expression in Lipa+/-Apoe-/- mice did not impact hepatic lipid metabolism or macrophage differentiation, as evidenced by flow cytometry and single-cell RNA sequencing. These findings highlight a novel role for Lipa in modulating macrophage behavior during atherosclerosis, suggesting that Lipa may serve as a promising therapeutic target for the treatment of atherosclerosis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Buffalo milk is favoured by consumers due to its higher nutritional components, as well as its rich and mellow flavour. However, research on the molecular mechanisms underlying the formation of lactation traits in buffalo remains limited. In this study, we systematically investigated the regulatory effects of estrogen receptor alpha (ESR1) on lactation-related functions in buffalo mammary epithelial cells (BMECs) using overexpression and small interfering RNA (siRNA)-mediated silencing strategies. Our results demonstrated that ESR1 knockdown via siRNA significantly suppressed BMEC viability and proliferation and downregulated the expression of genes associated with lipid transport and secretion (PPARG, LPL, PLIN2, VLDLR, ADFP, CD36), milk protein synthesis (CSN1S1, CSN1S2, RPS6, RHEB, EIF4E, AKT1), and cell proliferation (STAT5A, MTOR, ELF5, CCND1, EGF, IGF1). Concurrently, silencing ESR1 markedly upregulated pro-apoptotic genes (BAX, CASP9) and downregulated the anti-apoptotic gene BCL2. Conversely, ESR1 overexpression exerted opposite effects on BMECs, further validating the critical role of ESR1 in modulating BMEC proliferation and milk component synthesis. In conclusion, ESR1 expression enhances buffalo lactation traits by promoting milk fat and milk protein synthesis, stimulating BMEC proliferation, and inhibiting cellular apoptosis. These findings provide novel insights into the molecular mechanisms governing buffalo lactation and offer valuable references for the development and utilization of lactation-related genetic resources in buffalo breeding.Copyright: © 2026 Zhixiang Wang et al.
Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a leading cause of vision loss, with its neovascular form (nAMD) primarily treated using anti-VEGF agents; however, therapeutic resistance and nonresponse remain major clinical challenges. Tanshinone IIA (TIIA), a multi-target bioactive compound derived from Salvia miltiorrhiza, has shown potential in retinal disease treatment. In this study, we investigated the therapeutic effects and underlying mechanisms of TIIA on choroidal neovascularization (CNV) using Vldlr knockout (Vldlr-/-) mice as an nAMD model. TIIA was administered intraperitoneally for 8 weeks, and CNV progression and vascular leakage were evaluated by OCT and FFA, while outer blood-retinal barrier (oBRB) integrity was assessed by immunofluorescence staining. Proteomics analysis combined with western blotting was used to explore the molecular mechanisms. Our results showed that TIIA significantly reduced CNV area and leakage, and restored oBRB integrity by upregulating tight junction proteins ZO-1 and Occludin in the RPE/choroid complex. Mechanistically, TIIA inhibited angiogenesis via suppression of the PLCγ/ERK1/2 signaling pathway. In addition, proteomics analysis revealed enhanced cholesterol efflux, intermediate filament reorganization, and decreased autophagy-related proteins across the retina, RPE/choroid complex, and serum. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that TIIA alleviates nAMD pathology through multi-target mechanisms, including inhibition of angiogenesis, restoration of barrier function, metabolic reprogramming, and modulation of autophagy, highlighting its potential as an alternative therapeutic strategy for nAMD.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
While premetastatic niche formation is known to affect primary tumors lung metastases, the role of lung stromal cells in this process remains unclear. Here, by performing multiomics sequencing, we identify interferon-regulated CD34+fibroblasts that reshape the immunosuppressive lung microenvironment via VLDLR-mediated lipoprotein metabolism activation. Increased lipoprotein uptake facilitates intracellular lipid accumulation, followed by CD155 expression in fibroblasts. CD155+fibroblasts strongly induce cytotoxic CD8+T and NK cell exhaustion, resulting in the formation of a premetastatic niche. The genetic disruption of the interferon-VLDLR-CD155 axis robustly reinstates immune surveillance and suppresses lung metastasis in multiple tumor models. Notably, interferon-based therapy is potentiated by specific silencing of the interferon response in fibroblasts or CD155 blockade. Moreover, the FTO-YTHDF2-mediated STAT1 m6A modification results in differences in the interferon response. Collectively, our findings reveal how interferon-induced metabolic rewiring in fibroblasts promotes metastatic competence via CD155-mediated immune evasion, suggesting stromal-targeted strategies for treating lung metastasis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42362005 is a review article
Neovascular age-related macular degeneration (nAMD) is a leading cause of blindness worldwide. Anti-VEGF agents are very beneficial for nAMD, with intravitreal (IVT) delivery becoming the gold standard for treatment of nAMD and other retinal conditions. Incomplete response remains a major challenge, as does the requirement for high-frequency, repeat IVT injections, which pose a significant burden on patients. Many potential drug candidates have attractive pharmacodynamic profiles but are limited by their insolubility, precluding IVT administration. These include tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), which target multiple receptors regulating angiogenesis, including the VEGF receptors. Thus, there is a great need for alternative treatment approaches. To this end, we developed a crystallization formulation approach for sorafenib (SFB), a very hydrophobic anti-angiogenic, multi-receptor TKI, for sustained intraocular release. We evaluated the efficacy of this formulation in two mouse models of nAMD: laser-induced choroidal neovascularization (LI-CNV) and Vldlr knockout (Vldlr-/-). Crystalline sorafenib ("Crystal SFB") exhibited controlled, prolonged drug release across both an accelerated release assay in vitro and in C57BL/6 mice, with ∼13% remaining in the eye after 28 days in vivo. Further, a single IVT injection effectively suppressed both neovascularization and vascular leakage, two critical clinical parameters in nAMD, for at least 28 days. IVT administration of Crystal SFB did not have discernible adverse effects on intraocular pressure, retinal morphology assessed by OCT, or neuroretinal function as measured by ERG. These results suggest that Crystal SFB offers a promising alternative for long-term nAMD management and a proof-of-concept for ocular utilization of other crystallized drugs.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Encephalitic alphaviruses, including Eastern equine encephalitis virus (EEEV), cause severe neurological disease with high mortality rates, and thus are a public health threat. Although members of the low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) family, including VLDLR, LRP8 (ApoER2), and LDLR recently were identified as receptors for EEEV, residual infection in receptor-deficient cells suggests that additional entry factors exist. Using a CRISPR-based activation screen, we identified LDLR-related protein 4 (LRP4) as a candidate entry factor for EEEV and several related alphaviruses (Western equine encephalitis, Semliki Forest, and Sindbis viruses). LRP4 mediates viral attachment and internalization, and its ligand-binding domain binds directly to virions. Soluble LRP4 decoy proteins potently inhibit EEEV infection in primary mouse neuronal cells, male mice, and human brain organoids, suggesting possible therapeutic applications. Mammalian and avian LRP4 orthologs demonstrate conserved functions in promoting EEEV infection, supporting a possible role in its host range of infection and transmission. Our findings establish LRP4 as a shared entry receptor for multiple alphaviruses and expand our understanding of alphavirus tropism, pathogenesis, and countermeasure development.© 2026. The Author(s).
The development of musical abilities, including absolute pitch, musical memory, rhythm sense, and musicality, at a high degree is determined by a hereditary component (up to 68 %). The studies implementing a genome-wide linkage and association approach to musical aptitude have revealed more than 100 genetic loci. This spectrum is comprised of the genes encoding for transcription factors and those responsible for neurogenesis and synaptic plasticity, genes fixed as a result of positive selection of musicality, and those related to inner ear formation. Since no studies linking musical aptitude with genes have been previously conducted in Russia, the present study aimed at replicating the association of 17 previously identified genetic variants with developing musical abilities in Russians. Genotyping of SNPs in the GATA2, PCDH7, UNC5C, ASAP1, SBSPON, DCBLD2, KALRN, VLDLR, OTOF, GRIN2B, FoxP1, FoxP2, BDNF, EGR1, and SNCA genes was performed using competitive allele-specific PCR in a sample of students who underwent rigorous contest selection at admission to the conservatory and in the corresponding control group. A series of logistic regression analyses were used both to evaluate the main effect of SNP and to identify the best prognostic model based on various loci. The mathematical model obtained by including only statistically significant SNPs consisted of GATA2 rs9854612, SNCA rs356168, rs3910105, ASAP1 rs3057, and VLDLR rs1454626 (р = 0.0018, pseudo r2 = 0.188, AUC = 0.791). The addition of all examined SNPs as predictors enabled the construction of a statistically significant model with a higher predictive ability (р = 0.012, pseudo r2 = 0.380, AUC = 0.889). The results revealed indicate a potential cumulative gene effect, confirming the involvement of dopaminergic and GABAergic neurotransmission, the reelin pathway and the role of alpha-synuclein in musicality formation.Copyright © AUTHORS.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42217724 is a review article
Platelets are produced via a canonical pathway emanating from multilineage hematopoietic stem cells (ML-HSCs) and a faster, direct pathway used by platelet-biased (P-) HSCs where the latter circumvents progenitors intermediate between HSCs and megakaryocytes. However, the physiological role of these distinct pathways remains to be determined. Here, we use Vldlr-iCre lineage tracing to identify platelets originating from platelet-biased HSCs and to show that P-HSC contribution to the megakaryocyte progenitor (MkP) population and platelet production is increased after 5-fluorouracil or cyclophosphamide treatment, where proliferating progenitors are severely depleted. In contrast, antibody-mediated platelet depletion, which leaves the progenitor hierarchy intact, did not increase the proportion of platelets generated by P-HSCs. Therefore, P-HSCs provide rapid platelet reconstitution without the need for complete re-establishment of the progenitor hierarchy after cytotoxic and genotoxic challenges due to their ability to more rapidly generate megakaryocyte progenitors from HSCs.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42119247 is a review article
Paqr7 and paqr8 are genes encoding membrane progestin receptor αand β (mPRα and mPRβ, respectively), which are currently classified as members of the progestin and adipoQ receptor (PAQR) family. For mPRα, the first identified mPR gene, there are two paralogs in zebrafish, paqr7a and paqr7b. In order to elucidate the physiological functions of the mPR subtypes, we created gene knockout (KO) fish by editing seven paqr genes in zebrafish and analyzing their phenotypes. The null-mutant strains of paqr7a, paqr7b, and paqr8 presented no significant abnormalities in reproductive functions. Thus, we generated a triple-gene knockout (TKO) strain of these highly related genes. The TKO strain had reduced fecundity and a high percentage of abnormal embryos. The embryos exhibited various types of abnormal morphology. In histological sections, a reduction in the number of nucleoli in germinal vesicles was observed. Additionally, the distribution of the nucleolus was abnormal. The amount of 18S and 28S ribosomal RNAs in the oocytes significantly increased. These analyses indicate that paqr7a, paqr7b, and paqr8 are responsible for the production of the nucleolus, which is necessary for supplying the proper number of ribosomal RNAs into the cytoplasm of oocytes. Abnormal embryo development resulted from low-quality eggs in TKO zebrafish, suggesting that paqr7a, paqr7b, and paqr8 mutations affect oogenesis. These results indicate that Paqr7a, Paqr7b, and Paqr8 are required for the preparation of the nucleolus during oogenesis. Insufficient formation of the nucleolus resulted in a higher quantity of ribosomal RNA in the cytoplasm, causing abnormal embryo development.
Background/Objectives: Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) has become increasingly common, a trend driven by obesity, excess nutritional intake, and dysfunctional adipose tissue. While continuous dietary stress triggers adipose-tissue-derived lipotoxicity and disrupts hepatic metabolic homeostasis and provokes inflammation, the transcriptional scaffolds that mitigate this lipotoxicity remain incompletely understood. We investigated the role of zinc finger protein 90 (ZFP90) in defending against diet-induced metabolic stress and MASLD pathogenesis. Methods: Wild-type and ZFP90-knockout mice were subjected to a high-fat diet (HFD) to model nutrient-overload-induced MASLD. Hepatic phenotypes were characterized using metabolic profiling and RNA sequencing. Mechanistic dynamics were evaluated through protein interaction assays, and clinical relevance was validated using human MASLD liver biopsies. Results: ZFP90 deficiency significantly accelerated HFD-induced steatosis, systemic insulin resistance, and inflammatory infiltration. Crucially, ZFP90 depletion drove severe white adipose tissue (WAT) dysfunction, characterized by impaired lipogenic capacity, exacerbated lipolysis, and diminished local insulin signaling. This was accompanied by a pro-inflammatory secretory shift in WAT, evident from decreased Adipoq and increased Cd68/Ccl3 expression. In the liver, transcriptomic analysis revealed a profound induction of pathways related to fatty acid uptake and cytokine signaling. Mechanistically, ZFP90 forms a repressive complex with TRIM28, acting as a crucial molecular brake on NF-kB signaling. Loss of ZFP90 unleashes p65-mediated hyper-inflammation. Clinically, hepatic ZFP90 expression is significantly upregulated in patients with MASLD. Conclusions: ZFP90 is a novel regulator of immunometabolic homeostasis under dietary stress. By forming of complex with Trim28 to inhibit the nuclear translocation of NF-κB, ZFP90 suppresses pro-inflammatory responses and protects the liver from obesity-associated systemic lipotoxicity. These findings provide critical insights into the adipo-hepatic axis and highlight ZFP90 as a promising therapeutic target to mitigate the progression to metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH).
Early diagnosis of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is hindered by a lack of reliable biomarkers. This study sought to identify and evaluate diagnostic plasma protein biomarkers for SLE. We analyzed plasma protein profiles, polygenic risk scores (PRS), and clinical data from 544 SLE cases and 48,036 controls in the UK Biobank. Using LASSO regression, we identified 35 high-confidence SLE-associated proteins and derived a protein risk score (ProtRS). The ProtRS model achieved exceptional diagnostic performance (AUC = 0.91), significantly outperforming models based on PRS or clinical factors alone. Notably, a cost-optimized 5-protein panel (TRIM21, SOD2, KLK3, IL15, ADIPOQ) retained high accuracy (AUC = 0.82) while reducing costs by ~87%. ProtRS also demonstrated the highest population attributable fraction (96.34%), underscoring its dominant contribution to SLE burden. This study establishes a protein-driven framework for early SLE detection, offering tiered diagnostic solutions to balance accuracy and cost. The findings underscore the translational potential of protein biomarkers in bridging theoretical research and clinical practice.Copyright: © 2026 Lv et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42484804 is a review article
Endocrine-disrupting chemicals (EDCs) like bisphenol A (BPA) and benzophenone-3 (BP-3) are omnipresent and previously linked to various metabolic disorders. As EDC exposure already begins during prenatal development, we investigated the effects of BPA and BP-3 exposure during gestation and lactation using a murine model on adipogenesis and metabolic pathways in white adipose tissue (WAT) in the offspring. We monitored postnatal body mass and analyzed the morphology and gene expression of WAT in adult male and female offspring. BPA- and BPA+BP-3-exposed males showed an increase in body mass in early adulthood, whereas BP-3-exposed females presented a decreased growth rate later in life. We identified altered adipocyte area and distribution, suggesting hyperplasia in the WAT of BPA and BPA+BP-3-exposed males. Gene expression analysis showed Pparg upregulation in BPA+BP-3-exposed males and Fabp4 and Adipoq downregulation in BP-3-exposed females. Sex-specific associations between gene expression, adipocyte area, and body mass in controls were disrupted by EDC exposure. Our findings suggest increased postnatal body mass and Pparg-mediated WAT hyperplasia in BPA+BP-3-exposed male mice. Fabp4 and Adipoq downregulation may be responsible for counteracting the BP-3-induced metabolic dysregulation in females. This calls for consideration of sex-specific differences of endocrine disruption in the future development of preventive and therapeutic targets for metabolic disorders.© 2026 The Authors. Co-published by Research Center for Eco-Environmental Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, and American Chemical Society.
Patients with neuroendocrine tumours may receive higher total amount of [177Lu]Lu-DOTA-(Tyr3)-octreotate and achieve better tumor control if the risk of kidney toxicity could be predicted individually for each patient. One strategy for such a prediction includes the evaluation of early responding biomarkers for kidney damage during treatment to decide the number of treatment cycles. The aims of this study were to (1) evaluate if urinary RBP4, NGAL, creatinine and cystatin C levels may serve as early responding biomarkers for kidney damage, (2) assess the expression of NGAL, KIM-1, CDKN1A, S100A6 and ADIPOQ in kidney tissue to validate their use as histological indicators of toxicity, and to (3) examine the long-term effects of the proposed radioprotector α1-microglobulin (A1M) in mice exposed to [177Lu]Lu-DOTA-(Tyr3)-octreotate. Mice were injected with 90 or 150 MBq [177Lu]Lu-DOTA-(Tyr3)-octreotate with or without A1M. Urine was collected at several time-points, and the animals were sacrificed after 9 months. Urinary RBP4 increased from day 35 after injection of 150 MBq [177Lu]Lu-DOTA-(Tyr3)-octreotate, creatinine decreased from day 131 and cystatin C increased from day 223. KIM-1, CDKN1A and S100A6 showed a dose dependent kidney expression. Morphological signs of kidney injury were observed in mice injected with 150 MBq [177Lu]Lu-DOTA-(Tyr3)-octreotate. No clear kidney protective effect was detected when A1M was co-administered with [177Lu]Lu-DOTA-(Tyr3)-octreotate.© 2026. The Author(s).
The perithyroidal adipose tissue (PAT), given its direct anatomical proximity to the thyroid gland, has long been postulated as a modulator of the thyroid tumor microenvironment. However, its cellular composition, functional heterogeneity, and specific roles in thyroid cancer progression remain unknown. To address these knowledge gap, we performed single-nucleus RNA sequencing of PAT from patients with papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) and multinodular goiter (MNG), combined with machine learning, proteomics, immunofluorescence, ex vivo assays, and human serum analysis. We constructed the first high-resolution atlas of human PAT, revealing an immune-rich niche and previously unrecognized adipocyte heterogeneity, including thermogenic subpopulations (BL-Ad1, BL-Ad2, OXPHOS-Ad) from distinct progenitors. Functionally, the PAT secretome from PTC substantially enhanced thyroid cancer cell proliferation compared to MNG. Integrated analyses identified a pathogenic adipokine triad characterized by loss of ADIPOQ and gain of NAMPT and IGF1. Restoring ADIPOQ signaling or inhibiting NAMPT/IGF1 suppressed tumor growth in vitro and in vivo. Additionally, we identified CCL14, down-regulated in PTC-derived OXPHOS-Ad, as a key immune regulator. Reduced CCL14-CCR1 signaling impaired CD80 expression in M1-like macrophages, disrupting CD80-CD28 costimulation and consequently diminishing T cell proliferation and recruitment. Consistently, circulating CCL14 levels were reduced in PTC patients. In conclusion, PAT acts as a dynamic endocrine and immunomodulatory component of the tumor microenvironment that promotes thyroid tumor growth through adipokine-mediated and immune-dependent mechanisms.Copyright © 2026 Qiaoyun Long et al.
Follistatin (FST) binds to and neutralizes members of the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β) superfamily, thereby regulating diverse physiological processes, including regulation of skeletal muscle, adipose, and bone homeostasis. FST also promotes adipose browning and enhances energy metabolism, leading to improved plasma lipid profiles and metabolic health in mice. Given the emerging association between brown adipose tissue (BAT) activation and reduced atherosclerosis, we investigated the anti-atherogenic potential of FST. Transcriptomic and metabolomic analyses of the Hybrid Mouse Diversity Panel (HMDP) revealed that Fst expression was negatively correlated with aortic lesion area and positively correlated with the expression of multiple adipose browning-associated genes. Adeno-associated viral delivery of Fst (AAV1-FST344) in Ldlr-/- mice significantly reduced aortic lesion area, improved plasma lipid profiles, and decreased expression of adhesion (VCAM1) and inflammatory (iNOS, TNF-α) markers in white adipose tissue (WAT), liver, and heart. Fst gene delivery also markedly increased uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1) expression in WAT, consistent with WAT browning. Integrated correlation analyses of Fst expression with tissue metabolites, together with plasma metabolite-lesion associations identified in the HMDP, implicated the arginase 1 (Arg1)-mediated metabolic pathway as a key regulator of atherogenesis. Consistent with these findings, Arg1 expression was significantly elevated in WAT, liver, and heart of AAV1-FST344-treated mice and in wild-type versus Fst-knockout mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs). Immunostaining localized Arg1 predominantly to CD68+ macrophages in heart and liver. Given recent evidence identifying Arg1 as a novel mediator of efferocytosis, these findings suggest that Arg1 may promote macrophage metabolic reprogramming and resolution of inflammation by enhancing the clearance of apoptotic cells. Furthermore, Fst gene delivery increased the expression of fibroblast growth factor 21 (Fgf21) and adiponectin (AdipoQ) in WAT. Collectively, these findings identify Fst as a novel anti-atherogenic regulator that protects against vascular disease by promoting adipose browning, improving lipid metabolism, and activating Arg1-mediated metabolic pathways.
Neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs) exhibit considerable molecular heterogeneity, making it difficult to pinpoint robust, disease-specific biomarkers. Although proteomic studies have deepened our understanding of individual disorders, systematic cross-disease comparisons with cross-platform validation remain scarce, especially for rare conditions like spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy (SBMA). To address this gap, we conducted a comparative plasma proteomic analysis using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) in 264 participants across major neurodegenerative and related diagnostic groups, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), SBMA, and cognitively healthy controls. This unified framework allowed us to capture both disease-specific and shared protein signatures across neurodegenerative conditions. Candidate proteins were then validated in the UK Biobank (Olink Explore) and the Global Neurodegeneration Proteomics Consortium (SomaScan). Of 23 proteins assessed in the UK Biobank, four unique proteins (yielding six disease-protein associations) showed nominally significant and directionally concordant changes; of 20 proteins represented by 27 probes tested in the Global Neurodegeneration Proteomics Consortium, seven proteins reached nominal significance, all with full directional concordance across both cohorts. Notably, IGFBP2 was consistently elevated in AD and PD across independent datasets, pointing to shared metabolic dysregulation, while ADIPOQ showed parallel increases in the same conditions, reinforcing convergent shifts in energy metabolism. By contrast, CRTAC1 and COMP were selectively reduced in motor neuron diseases, suggesting disease-enriched alterations in extracellular matrix composition. Taken together, our findings provide a cross-disease, cross-platform framework for uncovering reproducible proteomic biomarkers and shed light on both overlapping and distinct molecular pathways in neurodegeneration.© 2026. The Author(s).
Adipose tissue is essential for maintaining glucose and lipid homeostasis in mammals. However, epigenomic mechanisms underlying adipose tissue function remain largely unclear. Here, we identify the histone chaperone HIRA as an epigenomic regulator of adipose tissue function. Adipose tissue-specific knockout of Hira in mice impairs insulin sensitivity and restrains adipose tissue expansion during high-fat diet-induced obesity. Mechanistically, HIRA is required for the expression of Adipoq, encoding the adipokine adiponectin, and lipid metabolism genes in adipose tissue. Genomic mapping reveals that HIRA binds to promoters and enhancers of Adipoq and lipid metabolism genes in adipocytes. Acute HIRA depletion using the dTAG system, followed by nascent RNA-Seq and ChIP-Seq, demonstrates that while HIRA is largely dispensable for enhancer activation and coactivator binding, it promotes transcription of target genes by facilitating RNA polymerase II pause release and subsequent elongation likely independently of H3.3 deposition. Our findings uncover a mechanism by which HIRA regulates transcription and establish HIRA's critical role in insulin sensitivity and lipid metabolism, providing a potential therapeutic target for obesity and insulin resistance.
Homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH) is a genetic disorder characterized by lifelong low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) elevation, which results in early onset of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. Recently, evinacumab, an angiopoietin-like 3 protein inhibitor, became available to treat patients affected by HoFH. We aimed to investigate safety and efficacy data in HoFH in clinical practice.Our HoFH cohort (n = 7) included 4 patients with 2 LDL receptor (LDLR)-related or LDLRAP1-related copies of the identical variant and 3 patients with 1 copy each of 2 different LDLR-related variants. All subjects were receiving maximally tolerated lipid-lowering therapy, 4 patients had additionally lipoprotein apheresis. The average LDL-C at baseline was 222 mg/dl. Each patient was treated with evinacumab at a dose of 15 mg/kg intravenously every 4 weeks, except for one patient, who received it every 6 to 8 weeks. In one patient, therapy was discontinued after 3 doses, due to a suspected allergic reaction. Clinical and lipid parameters were regularly evaluated over 52-weeks.An average decrease from baseline in LDL-C of -68.9 ± 14.0% (P < 0,001) was observed throughout the treatment period of 52 weeks. In one patient, reductions of 56% and 52% were achieved after therapy intervals of 6 and 8 weeks, respectively. Five patients reached their LDL-C target, lipoprotein apheresis could be interrupted in 2 patients due to high efficacy of evinacumab. No side effects were observed, except for a suspected allergic reaction.Evinacumab on top of the best standard of care treatment is an effective treatment to further reduce LDL-C levels in HoFH patients.© 2026 The Author(s).
Familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) is an inherited disorder with markedly elevated LDL-C and increased risk of premature atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, most often caused by pathogenic variants in LDLR and less frequently APOB/PCSK9 (or recessive LDLRAP1). FH is commonly assessed using the Dutch Lipid Clinic Network (DLCN) score (definite >8, probable 6-8, possible 3-5). In Uzbekistan, genetic evidence for FH remains limited and largely based on candidate-variant studies, and the diagnostic yield of NGS for monogenic FH in CAD patients is not well defined.For the first time in Uzbekistan and Central Asia, to investigate FH-associated monogenic variants using next-generation sequencing (NGS) and to assess the validity of the DLCN criteria against genetic testing as the diagnostic reference standard in Uzbek patients with CAD and suspected FH.This study included 95 patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) who underwent targeted NGS of LDLR, APOB, PCSK9, and LDLRAP1. The suspected/phenotypic FH group comprised 56 patients: 53 with DLCN-predicted heterozygous FH (HeFH)-possible (3-5 points, n = 22), probable (6-8 points, n = 16), and definite (>8 points, n = 15)-and 3 siblings from one family with a homozygous FH (HoFH) phenotype. The control group included 39 CAD patients with hypercholesterolemia without an FH diagnosis (DLCN 1-2 points). Only pathogenic/likely pathogenic (P/LP) variants were used for genetic confirmation of FH.Pathogenic/likely pathogenic variants were detected in 10/53 (18.9%) DLCN-predicted HeFH patients and in all three HoFH siblings. Genetic confirmation rates (PPV) were 46.7% (7/15) in definite HeFH, 12.5% (2/16) in probable HeFH, and 4.5% (1/22) in possible HeFH; no P/LP variants were detected in controls (0/39). Using a DLCN >8 threshold, sensitivity was 70.0% (7/10) and specificity was 90.2% (74/82) in the CAD cohort excluding the HoFH family.NGS confirmed the highest diagnostic yield in patients with DLCN >8, supporting its use as a practical threshold to prioritise genetic testing; however, monogenic FH may still be present in patients with probable or possible DLCN scores.Copyright: © 2026 Alieva et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Central chondrosarcoma is the second most common primary malignant bone tumour, and grade progression markedly worsens prognosis. The contributions of lipid metabolic reprogramming and epigenetic co-dysregulation to grade progression remain poorly characterised. We integrated a bulk RNA-seq discovery cohort of 53 graded central chondrosarcomas (GSE299759) with a single-cell analysis of eight chondrosarcomas (GSE184118). Because the atypical cartilaginous tumour (ACT) and dedifferentiated groups each comprised only three samples, the Grade 3 versus Grade 2 contrast was pre-specified as the primary comparison. Curated panels of 44 lipid metabolism genes and 50 epigenetic regulators were assessed by differential expression and a correlation-based connectivity ranking, evaluated by permutation testing. In the primary Grade 3 versus Grade 2 comparison, SQLE, ACACA, and FASN were upregulated (FDR < 0.05), indicating a grade-associated increase in de novo lipogenesis. In the exploratory Grade 3 versus ACT comparison, additional lipid genes (HMGCR, LDLRAP1) and the epigenetic regulators EHMT2 and SIRT2 showed altered expression, although the small ACT group limits these estimates. A connectivity ranking highlighted FASN, KMT2C, TET2, SETD5, and KDM5B; permutation testing confirmed this co-expression structure was non-random (p < 0.0001). Single-cell analysis showed FASN, SETD5, and KDM5B are expressed predominantly in malignant cells, whereas KMT2C and TET2 are not, indicating cell-type heterogeneity. De novo lipogenesis upregulation is the most consistent lipid alteration in high-grade central chondrosarcoma, nominating SQLE, ACACA, and FASN as candidates for experimental investigation.
Familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) is characterized by a lifelong elevation of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), conferring an increased risk of premature atherosclerotic disease and its associated burden of morbidity and mortality. Autosomal recessive hypercholesterolemia (ARH) is a rare form of homozygous FH (HoFH) and is a distinct subset caused by mutations in the low-density lipoprotein receptor adaptor protein 1 (LDLRAP1) gene. We present a 29-year-old South Asian male who visited the lipid clinic with a markedly elevated, untreated LDL-C level of 557 mg/dL. Clinical and genetic evaluation identified a homozygous pathogenic splice donor variant in the LDLRAP1 (c.344+1G>A), confirming the diagnosis of ARH. On examination, a grade III/VI systolic ejection murmur was appreciated, prompting further investigation that confirmed mild aortic stenosis. Achieving adequate LDL-C control for this patient required stepwise escalation of the lipid-lowering therapy comprising high-intensity statin therapy, proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 inhibitor, bempedoic acid, and ultimately evinacumab. This case draws attention to the importance of appropriately diagnosing and treating individuals with ARH and initiating combination lipid-lowering therapy, including specialty medications indicated for this diagnosis, to effectively treat this disorder, as well as the importance of screening for valvular heart disease in this population.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) is a common, autosomal semi-dominant inherited disorder causing premature cardiovascular disease. However, it remains underdiagnosed, especially in community settings. Early diagnosis, particularly in children, is critical for timely intervention. Furthermore, the pathogenicity of genetic variants of uncertain significance poses a major challenge for clinical interpretation.We conducted a systematic screening program in a town in Wujiang District, Suzhou, China. Eligible individuals (based on LDL-C ≥ 3.8 mmol/L, family history, or voluntary participation) underwent genetic testing for FH-related genes (LDLR, PCSK9, APOB and LDLRAP1) and pharmacogenetic variants (SLCO1B1 and APOE). Cascade screening was offered to relatives of probands with putative pathogenic variants. Identified variants were functionally characterized through in vitro assays, including intracellular expression, PCSK9 secretion, LDLR degradation and LDL uptake assays.Among 27 eligible participants, 13 (48.1%) carried putative pathogenic variants, with the majority (11/13) in LDLR. Cascade screening of eight families identified 13 additional carriers, with no pediatric carriers detected. Functional assays demonstrated that LDLR c.190delT and c.1448G > A resulted in complete loss of function, while c.1879G > A impaired protein maturation and reduced function to approximately 50% of wild-type. Other missense variants exhibited partial loss of function. For PCSK9, the c.658G > A variant was experimentally confirmed as a gain-of-function variant through in vitro studies.This study establishes a comprehensive FH diagnostic model from community screening to functional validation. Our findings confirm a high FH prevalence in this Chinese cohort and underscore the indispensable role of functional assays and pharmacogenetics in enabling precise diagnosis and personalized management.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 41866072 is a review article
Familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) is characterised by elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels and an increased risk of premature cardiovascular disease. The present study aimed to investigate the genetic background, associated biochemical profiles, clinical manifestations, and therapeutic response in patients with clinically suspected FH in Serbia.A total of 101 patients with clinically suspected FH were recruited from the Clinic for Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolic Diseases in Serbia between 2015 and 2023. Clinical diagnosis was established using the Dutch Lipid Clinic Network (DLCN) criteria. Genetic profiles of all patients were previously determined using next-generation sequencing. Fasting serum lipids, apolipoprotein A-I [ApoA-I], apolipoprotein B [ApoB], and lipoprotein(a) (Lp(a)) were measured enzymatically. Levels of serum lipids were compared between genetically FH-positive (carriers of variants in LDLR, APOB, PCSK9 and LDLRAP1 genes) and FH-negative patients. Therapeutic response was assessed by achieving the LDL-C target level. Statistical analyses were conducted in SPSS (version 30.0).Genetically confirmed FH patients exhibited significantly higher levels of ApoB (p=0.001) compared with variant-negative individuals, while ApoA-I (p=0.413) and Lp(a) (p=0.421) levels did not differ significantly between groups. Patients with pathogenic FH-associated variants were less likely to reach target LDL-C levels after therapy than those without identified variants.This study demonstrates biochemical diversity in familial hypercholesterolemia associated with genetic background in the Serbian population. Pathogenic FH mutations were associated with higher ApoB levels, underscoring the importance of combining genetic testing with lipid profiling for precise diagnosis and management.2025 Lukač Sandra Singh, Vladimir Gašić, Jovana Komazec, Ivana Grubiša, Ljiljana Popović, Iva Rasulić, Ana Petakov, Marija Mitrović, Emilija Mihailović, Sonja Pavlović, Katarina Lalić, published by CEON/CEES.
Autosomal recessive hypercholesterolemia (ARH) is a rare form of genetic hypercholesterolemia consequent to pathogenic variants in the low-density lipoprotein receptor adaptor protein 1 (LDLRAP1) gene, coding for a protein responsible for moving low-density lipoprotein-receptor (LDL-R) to its site of activity. ARH is characterized by very high levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), leading to aggressive and frequently premature atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD). Lowering of LDL-C is the main target of treatment; however, classical lipid-lowering agents, for example, statins, frequently have a modest response, in view of their selective LDL-R-raising activity.Among newer agents with an LDL-R-independent mechanism, evinacumab has been shown to be effective in homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, but few data are available in LDLRAP1 variant carriers.We here report 2 cases of this extremely rare form of familial hypercholesterolemia with a surprising response to evinacumab. Evinacumab was added to maximally tolerated background therapy.In the first patient, who had severe ASCVD and a prior inadequate response to statins, proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) inhibitors, and lomitapide, evinacumab reduced time-averaged LDL-C by 82% (from 549 to 62 mg/dL). In the second patient, evinacumab achieved a sustained 73.8% LDL-C reduction, maintaining levels <55 mg/dL and allowing discontinuation of the PCSK9 inhibitor.These cases demonstrate a marked and clinically meaningful LDL-C-lowering effect of evinacumab in ARH, supporting its use as an effective LDL-R-independent therapeutic option.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Targeted covalent inhibitors (TCIs) are powerful tools in drug discovery, but the high intrinsic reactivity of conventional warheads often compromises selectivity and increases the off-target liability. Here, we reported nitrodiphenyl-ether compounds as a novel irreversible and released-type covalent warhead with exceptionally low reactivity that potently inhibits coronavirus HCoV-OC43 infection. To identify their molecular targets, we designed a panel of active and inactive alkyne-tagged probes and performed chemical proteomic profiling in human host cells. An integrated approach combining activity- and inactivity-based proteome profiling (AIBPP), competitive ABPP, LC-MS/MS, and fluorescence polarization (FP) assays identified low-density lipoprotein receptor adapter protein 1 (LDLRAP1) as the primary target, modified selectively at C119, thereby disrupting the LDLR-LDLRAP1 interaction. Inhibition of this interaction strongly correlated with antiviral efficacy, confirming LDLRAP1 as the functional target. Collectively, this study establishes LDLRAP1 as an unexploited host antiviral target and expands the repertoire of cysteine-targeted covalent warheads for host-directed therapy.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41703706 is a review article
High-grade serous ovarian cancer (HGSC) is the most aggressive subtype of ovarian epithelial cancer (OEC), with characters of late-stage diagnosis, high recurrence rate, and poor survival outcomes. Fucosyltransferase 8 (FUT8) is responsible for α1,6-core fucosylation biosynthesis, and aberrant FUT8/α1,6-core fucosylation level is involved in tumor progression. However, the roles and mechanisms of protein FUT8 and α1,6-core fucosylation in HGSC tumorigenesis and progression remain elusive. Here, our study confirms that elevated levels of FUT8/α1,6-core fucose in the tissues and serum of HGSC patients, and the elevation is associated with poor patient prognosis. By applying glycoproteomic assay, we globally screen and identify NCEH1 as the specific scaffold protein of α1,6-core fucosylation. Alpha 1,6-core fucose modification stabilizes NCEH1 by preventing its degradation through proteasomal pathway. Importantly, combined with non-targeted metabolomics analysis, α1,6-core fucosylated NCEH1 facilitates LPA secretion, driving M2-like polarization of tumor-associated macrophages in the tumor microenvironment, thus leading to oncogenesis and peritoneal metastasis of HGSC in vitro and in vivo. These findings broaden the understanding of FUT8/α1,6-core fucosylation/NCEH1 in HGSC progression and metastasis, and offer glycosylated diagnostic indicators and targets for therapeutic strategies in HGSC.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Neutral cholesterol ester hydrolase 1 (NCEH1), a key enzyme in cellular lipid metabolism, is associated with cancer progression. Its molecular functions in breast cancer remain poorly understood.This study evaluated the expression of NCEH1 in breast cancer patients using multiple databases. Functionally, the effects of NCEH1 silencing or overexpression on breast cancer cell growth and motility were investigated. RNA-seq was employed to identify downstream target genes and signalling pathways.The expression of NCEH1 in breast cancer tissues and cells was significantly higher than that in normal tissues and cells. Silencing NCEH1 suppressed breast cancer cell proliferation and migration. Mechanistically, NCEH1 regulated Neuropilin-1 (NRP1) expression, and both promoted malignant phenotypes in breast cancer by activating the TNF-α/NF-κB signalling pathway.Our findings demonstrate that NCEH1 accelerates breast cancer progression by modulating NRP1 and activating the TNF-α/NF-κB signalling pathway. Collectively, NCEH1 represents a potential novel biomarker and therapeutic target for breast cancer.
Cadmium (Cd) exposure is an emerging environmental risk factor for atherosclerotic cardiovascular diseases (ASCVDs), particularly ischemic stroke (IS). MicroRNAs are potential mediators linking environmental exposure to health hazards. However, the role of miRNAs in the development of IS triggered by Cd exposure remains largely unknown. In this study, we first demonstrate that Cd exposure, even at a relatively low dosage (4 mg/L), significantly facilitates the progression of atherosclerosis in apolipoprotein E-deficient mice fed a high-fat diet. This pro-atherogenic effect was accompanied by comprehensive disturbances in systemic and vascular cholesterol homeostasis, evidenced by altered plasma lipid profiles, hepatic lipid accumulation, and dysregulated expression of key genes governing cholesterol uptake (CD36), efflux (ABCA1), and hydrolysis (NCEH1) within the aortic wall. Integrated transcriptomic and metabolomic analyses further corroborated the profound disruption of the lipid metabolism pathways. Through miRNA microarray, bioinformatics analysis, and qRT-PCR validation, we identified miR-30d-5p and miR-504-3p as novel epigenetic regulators mediating Cd-induced foam cell formation. Specifically, Cd treatment upregulated miR-30d-5p and downregulated miR-504-3p, which directly targeted NCEH1 and CD36, respectively, thereby promoting intracellular lipid accumulation. In a case-control population (494 IS patients and 494 controls), plasma miR-30d-5p levels were positively associated with Cd exposure and partially mediated the Cd-stroke association, accounting for 16.4% of the total effect. Moreover, miR-30d-5p significantly improved the discrimination and reclassification of IS patients beyond the traditional risk factors. In summary, our findings reveal that Cd induces atherosclerosis by disrupting cholesterol homeostasis and modulating miRNA-regulated pathways with plasma miR-30d-5p serving as a potential biomarker and mediator for Cd-related ischemic stroke. Further perspective investigations are warranted to validate our findings.
This study aimed to identify phenotypic biomarkers associated with high-altitude adaptation in Bayinbuluke sheep and to investigate the correlations between serum biochemical parameters and muscle transcriptomic, metabolomic, and proteomic profiles. Bayinbuluke sheep (raised at 3200 m) and Turpan black sheep (raised at-154 m) were selected for the experiment. The results demonstrated that, to adapt to the complex high-altitude hypoxic environment, Bayinbuluke sheep enhance glycolytic flux to rapidly generate energy, suppress intramuscular lipid synthesis, regulate lipid metabolic homeostasis to maintain energy balance, and remodel metabolic networks. Specifically, the GPAT3 gene promotes neutral cholesterol ester hydrolase 1 (NCEH1) through the glycerophospholipid metabolism pathway, facilitating the hydrolysis of cholesterol esters and fatty acid esters, thereby modulating systemic lipid metabolism. The FASN gene regulates energy metabolism via the AMPK signaling pathway, increasing the levels of glycolytic intermediates and markers such as nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD). Meanwhile, L-lactate dehydrogenase (LDHB) enhances the glycolytic process under hypoxic conditions through the HIF-1 signaling pathway, catalyzing the conversion between lactate and pyruvate in muscle tissue to produce energy, thereby supporting energy supply under high-altitude hypoxia. Additionally, the GSTA1 gene improves detoxification capability and antioxidant responses through the drug metabolism-other enzymes system, alleviating oxidative stress damage. This study systematically elucidates the molecular regulatory network underlying high-altitude adaptation in Bayinbuluke sheep, providing a theoretical foundation for enhancing the genetic adaptability of livestock resources in high-altitude environments.Copyright © 2025 Akhmiyati, Chen, Yang, Liu and Liu.
Copper is an essential trace element in numerous biological processes; maintaining its homeostasis is crucial for pig health and productivity. In this study, we employed a mixed-effects model to investigate the contributions of host genetics, gut microbiota, and their interactions with serum copper levels in pigs. We further explored potential candidate genes and microbiota associated with copper metabolism. The results demonstrated that host genetics exert a dominant influence on serum copper regulation compared to the effects of the gut microbiota. Furthermore, genome-wide association analysis identified 4 candidate genes, CPHL1, CP, NCEH1, and PDE10A, strongly linked to copper metabolism. By applying multiple association approaches, 10 bacterial genera, such as Blautia, Lachnospiraceae UCG-008, and Ruminococcaceae UCG-007 were found to be significantly correlated with serum copper levels. This research offers novel insights into the genetic and microbial determinants of copper variation in pigs, establishing a foundation for future genetic and microbiota-based strategies aimed at enhancing copper homeostasis and overall livestock health.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Society of Animal Science. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) is a highly lethal malignant tumour with increasing incidence. Current therapies exhibit limited benefits, which urgently demand the identification of novel therapeutic targets.We aimed to identify potential therapeutic targets for CCA and broaden current therapies.Potential therapeutic targets for CCA were identified by sgRNA library screening and validated in preclinical models. Multi-omics sequencing and various experimental approaches were performed to validate the mechanism by which Aurora kinase B (AURKB) regulates CCA progression and the immune microenvironment, supported by clinical samples from public data sets and Tongji Hospital cohorts. The translational therapy was comprehensively validated in CCA organoid, patient-derived xenograft and preclinical murine models.AURKB was identified as a highly expressed and targetable kinase in CCA. Knockout of AURKB significantly inhibited CCA progression, reduced CD8+ T cell exhaustion and enhanced antitumour response. Mechanistically, AURKB promoted the generation of histone H3 lysine 9 tri-methylation (H3K9me3)/serine 10 phosphorylation, leading to a decrease in the enrichment of H3K9me3 at the neutral cholesterol ester hydrolase 1 (NCEH1) promoter, thereby increasing NCEH1 expression and cholesterol levels in tumours. High AURKB expression in clinical samples predicted poorer outcomes in patients with CCA undergoing neoadjuvant chemoimmunotherapy and was associated with cholesterol accumulation within tumours. AURKB inhibitor or simvastatin can suppress CCA progression and significantly enhance sensitivity to chemoimmunotherapy.AURKB regulates cholesterol levels and immune microenvironment in tumours, highlighting that targeting AURKB or adopting cholesterol-reducing strategy holds promise for CCA treatment, especially in conjunction with first-line chemoimmunotherapy.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Understanding the heterogeneity of Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) and identifying therapeutic targets remain challenging using traditional bulk transcriptomics alone, as it lacks the spatial and protein-level resolution needed to fully capture disease and tissue complexities. In this study, we applied Laser Capture Microdissection (LCM) coupled with mass spectrometry-based proteomics to analyze histopathological niches of the RA synovium, enabling the identification of protein expression profiles of the diseased synovial lining and sublining microenvironments compared to their healthy counterparts. In this respect, key pathogenetic RA proteins like membrane proteins (TYROBP, AOC3, SLC16A3, TCIRG1, and NCEH1), and extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins (PLOD2, OGN, and LUM) showed different expression patterns in diseased synovium compartments. To enhance our understanding of cellular dynamics within the dissected regions, we further integrated the proteomic dataset with single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), and deduced cell type enrichment, including T cells, fibroblasts, NK cells, myeloid cells, B cells, and synovial endothelial cells. By combining high-resolution spatial proteomics and transcriptomic analyses, we provide novel insights into the molecular mechanisms driving RA, and highlight potential protein targets for therapeutic intervention. This integrative approach offers a more comprehensive view of RA synovial pathology, and mitigates the limitations of traditional bulk transcriptomics in target discovery.
A diet high in n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs), particularly eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) (C20:5 n-3), is cardioprotective. PUFAs integrate into membrane phospholipids, altering membrane protein function. We investigated the effects of various PUFAs on the anti-atherogenic cholesterol efflux pathways from cholesterol-loaded human THP-1 macrophages. Cells were supplemented (or not: standard cells) with 70 μM EPA, 50 μM arachidonic acid (AA) (C20:4 n-6) or 15 μM docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) (C22:6 n-3) for an extended duration to simulate a dietary strategy. EPA led to a 13 % decrease in ABCA1-mediated cholesterol efflux and to a 17 % decrease in SR-BI/ABCG1-mediated cholesterol efflux without affecting the expression of efflux proteins, while AA and DHA showed no impact. Compared to standard cells, EPA cells exhibited higher EPA levels along with reduced AA levels. EPA cells showed increased amounts of triglycerides and cholesteryl esters (CE) without a change in the acetylated LDL uptake. EPA did not influence the phenotype of macrophages according to surface markers and released cytokines. The incorporation of EPA did not disrupt efflux in macrophages loaded with free cholesterol. Conversely, EPA decreased CE hydrolysis from lipid droplets by 22 %. The diminished cholesterol efflux was not related to triglyceride accumulation or to variations in apo E secretion. EPA reduced the expression of carboxylesterase 1 (CES1) protein by 17 % without affecting the expression of neutral cholesterol ester hydrolase 1 (NCEH1). In conclusion, the membrane incorporation of EPA hinders the cholesterol efflux pathways in THP-1 foam cells likely by impairing the CE hydrolysis mediated by carboxylesterase 1.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
A number of susceptibility genes in prostate tissue have been identified to be associated with prostate cancer (PCa) risk. However, the reported genes based on assessing prostate tissue could not fully explain PCa genetic susceptibility. It is believed that genes functioning in the immune system may fill in the gap of some missing heritability.To study potential susceptibility genes acting in such pathways, we performed a transcriptome-wide association study (TWAS) of 79,194 PCa cases and 61,112 control of European ancestry by using three sets of gene expression prediction models of blood tissue.A total of 470 genes were associated at false discovery rates-corrected p-value < 0.05, of which 51 were implicated as likely causal genes based on fine-mapping analysis. Compared with previous literature, 133 novel genes were reported for the first time. Of the identified genes, five (CREB3L4, GSTP1, MAPK3, NKX3-1, and PIK3C2B) were enriched in a PCa signaling pathway, and 128 genes were enriched in five PCa categories. Importantly, 13 genes (SCP2, LMNA, ZNF148, H2AFV, TACC1, FLII, SUPT4H1, CD300LF, MYO9B, COX6B1, CTSA, EP300, and TSPO) showed consistent effect directions for the measured levels in circulating immune cells between PCa cases and controls, and 14 genes (SLC39A1, ZBTB7B, TRIM59, NCEH1, N4BP2, TAGAP, TACC1, TRAF1, AIP, SECTM1, C18orf54, ZNF793, YIF1B, and TSPO) showed consistency for levels in blood exosomes between PCa patients and controls.The identified blood-based candidate susceptibility genes provide further insights into the genetic basis of PCa risk.© 2025 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Geniposide (GE), a bioactive compound extracted from the fruit of Gardenia jasminoides Ellis, has attracted significant attention for its hepatoprotective therapeutic applications. Although GE displays a protective effect on treating intrahepatic cholestasis (IC), the underlying mechanism remains elusive. In this study, we aimed to elucidate the pharmacological mechanisms of GE in treating IC by an integrated analysis of transcriptomics and metabolomics. Firstly, we evaluated the hepatoprotective effect of GE in α-naphthylisothiocyanate (ANIT)-induced IC rats by examining biochemical indices, inflammatory factors, and oxidative stress levels. Secondly, by transcriptomics and serum metabolomics, we identified differentially expressed genes and metabolites, revealing phenotype-related metabolic pathways and gene functions. Lastly, we screened the core targets of GE in the treatment of IC by integrating transcriptomic and metabolomic data and validated these targets using western blotting. The results indicated that GE improved serum indexes and alleviated inflammation reactions and oxidative stress in the liver. The transcriptomics analysis revealed 739 differentially expressed genes after GE treatment, mainly enriched in retinol metabolism, steroid hormone synthesis, PPAR signal transduction, bile secretion metabolism, and other pathways. The metabolomics analysis identified 98 differential metabolites and 10 metabolic pathways. By constructing a "genes-targets-pathways-compounds" network, we identified two pathways: the bile secretion pathway and the glutathione pathway. Within these pathways, we discovered nine crucial targets that were subsequently validated through western blotting. The results revealed that the GE group significantly increased the expression of ABCG5, NCEH1, OAT3, and GST, compared with the ANIT group. We speculate that GE has a therapeutic effect on IC by modulating the bile secretion pathway and the glutathione pathway and regulating the expression of ABCG5, NCEH1, OAT3, and GST.© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Most drugs target proteins, and proteome-wide genetic analyses in diverse populations could discover potential novel and repurposed targets for improved prevention and treatment of ischemic heart disease (IHD) beyond statin therapy.The purposes of this study were to use cis-acting single nucleotide polymorphisms (cis-pQTLs) identified for plasma proteins in East Asians and Europeans to discover and validate potential drug targets for IHD.We measured plasma levels of 9,520 (Olink/SomaScan: 2,923/7,297) proteins in a case-cohort study of IHD (1,976 incident cases and 2,001 subcohort controls) in statin-free individuals in the prospective China Kadoorie Biobank (CKB). Genome-wide association studies identified 2,895 (Olink/SomaScan: 1,301/1,594) cis-pQTLs for these proteins in CKB. Two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) and colocalization analyses assessed associations of all available cis-pQTLs for these proteins with IHD in East Asians (n = 29,319 cases), with further replication in Europeans (n = 181,522 cases) and comparison with findings in previous MR studies.In CKB observational analyses, a total of 959 (Olink/SomaScan: 426/533) proteins were associated at false discovery rate-corrected P < 0.05 with IHD after adjusting for major IHD risk factors. Two-sample MR analyses provided genetic support for 54 unique (Olink/SomaScan: 36/28) proteins in IHD etiology. Colocalization analyses confirmed shared gene-protein-IHD associations (posterior probability of hypothesis 4 [PPH4] ≥0.8) for 15 unique (Olink/SomaScan: 10/10) proteins, including 8 lipid-related, 3 inflammation-related, 1 blood pressure-related, and 3 alcohol-related proteins in East Asians. In Europeans, MR analyses of 12 non-alcohol-related proteins showed directionally concordant results for 8 proteins, with 5 having strong colocalization evidence of shared gene-protein-IHD associations (PPH4 ≥0.8), including 4 lipid-related (proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9, LPA, APOE, cadherin-1) and 1 systolic blood pressure-related (fibroblast growth factor 5) protein. However, 4 proteins showed directionally discordant MR results, including 2 lipid-related (APOA5, SORT1) and 1 inflammation-related (transforming growth factor beta 1) proteins with strong colocalization evidence of shared gene-protein-IHD associations (PPH4 ≥0.8). Comparison with previous MR studies revealed little consistency across studies in the number and identity of target proteins for IHD beyond well-established lipid-related (low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, lipoprotein(a), and triglycerides) or inflammation-related (interleukin-6) protein targets.The findings support a role for lipid-driven chronic inflammation in IHD etiology, and treatment strategies simultaneously targeting multiple lipid and inflammation pathways should be prioritized for further research to improve drug treatment of IHD beyond statin therapy.Copyright © 2026 American College of Cardiology Foundation. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42510808 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42510724 is a review article
Chylomicronemia is a genetically heterogeneous condition with both genetic and environmental determinants. Genetic studies have largely focused on European populations, with limited data from East Asians, particularly Han Chinese. We characterized the genetic profiles of chylomicronemia patients of mainly Han Chinese ancestry in Taiwan.To identify and classify disease-causing variants in chylomicronemia patients.Capture-based targeted next-generation sequencing was performed for 108 chylomicronemia patients to assess hypertriglyceridemia-related genes, including those harboring large- and moderate-effect rare variants, and small-effect single-nucleotide variants.Twenty-seven patients (25%) carried large-effect, disease-causing rare variants, the majority in LPL (86%), with additional variants identified in APOA5, LMF1, and APOA1. The most prevalent variant, NM_000237.3(LPL):c.835C>G(p.L279V), was detected in all homozygous and compound heterozygous cases. Comparison with the Taiwan Biobank revealed significant differences in APOE allele and genotype distributions (P = .003492 and P = .009, respectively). Additionally, NM_001371904.1(APOA5): c.553G>T(p.G185C) was identified in 43.5% of patients, showing a high prevalence despite not being classified as a large-effect variant, and frequently found without additional large-effect rare variants.As one of the most comprehensive characterizations to date of chylomicronemia in an East Asian cohort, the predominance of large-effect LPL rare variants, together with the high prevalence of the APOA5 p.G185C variant and distinct APOE allele distributions, highlights population-specific genetic architecture.Copyright © 2026 National Lipid Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is a complex metabolic disorder with a substantial genetic component; however, whether lipid species mediate the impact of genetic susceptibility on GDM risk remains unclear. This study aimed to characterize genetic architecture of GDM and evaluate whether lipid species mediate the genetic risk.A cohort and case-cohort design were implemented within the Anqing Pregnant Women Cohort. Maternal blood was collected at 15-20 gestational weeks, and GDM was diagnosed at 24-28 weeks. A Meta-GWAS of GDM was performed using regression-based methods, and polygenic risk score (PRS) was constructed. Lipidomic analysis was performed to identity differential lipid species. Risk Ratios (RRs) and 95% confidence interval (CI) were estimated via weighted Poisson regression. Weighted co-abundance network analysis (WGCNA) was applied to cluster lipids into co-abundance modules. Mediation analyses were used to estimate the extent to which lipid species statistically accounted for the association between genetic risk and GDM. A nested 5-fold cross-validation framework was used to explore predictive models and to evaluate the incremental value of PRS and lipid features.The Meta-GWAS of 536 GDM and 2,051 controls identified one genome-wide significant risk locus (LIPF) and eight suggestive loci, including two novel signals (IL17B, RPL15P2). Implicated genes were enriched in glycerolipid metabolism pathways. Lipidomic analysis in a case-cohort of 102 GDM and 111 controls identified 134 differential lipid species. WGCNA yielded 14 distinct co-abundance modules, five of which were significantly associated with GDM. Lipid mediators, including specific triacylglycerols, phosphatidylethanolamines, and hexosylceramides, collectively accounted for approximately 31.10% of the overall genetic effect on GDM. Modules enriched for these lipids showed varying degrees of statistical mediation for rs16885782 (CDKAL1), rs11236507 (DGAT2) and rs10830963 (MTNR1B), with mediation effect ranging from 10.30% to 22.07%. The incorporation of lipid biomarkers significantly improved GDM prediction (AUC = 0.849, P = 0.001), whereas further adding PRS did not show significant improvement (AUC = 0.858, P = 0.095).Genes involved in lipid metabolism are associated with GDM susceptibility. Lipids potentially mediate the genetic risk of GDM, and lipid biomarkers showed potential for improving predictive performance. These findings require further validation in independent cohorts.© 2026. The Author(s).
American cutaneous leishmaniasis (ACL) comprises a complex spectrum of immunopathological conditions in which Leishmania (V.) braziliensis and L. (L.) amazonensis elicit markedly divergent host responses. Mucosal leishmaniasis (ML) is characterized by a hyperergic, pro-inflammatory state, whereas anergic diffuse cutaneous leishmaniasis (ADCL) involves a profound impairment of cell-mediated immunity, respectively. The molecular sensors and metabolic circuits that dictate this immunological divergence remain poorly understood. We hypothesized that parasite species-specific programs orchestrate distinct macrophage polarization states, leading either tissue destruction or parasite persistence. We performed transcriptomic profiling (RNA-seq) of skin and mucosal biopsies from 20 ACL patients representing the full clinical spectrum (ADCL, ML, and localized forms) and from healthy controls. Computational deconvolution and gene regulatory network analyses were integrated with immunohistochemical validation of macrophage state markers. Unsupervised clustering identified parasite species as the principal determinant of lesion transcriptomes. ADCL lesions displayed a distinct MARCO-high immunometabolic program associated with upregulation of PPARG, SCARB1, and LRP1, consistent with enhanced fatty acid uptake and oxidative phosphorylation. The immunopathological analyses demonstrated that this signature was associated with a regulatory/anti-inflammatory (M2-like) macrophage phenotype (CD163⁺/IL-10⁺) in ADCL, whereas ML was characterized by an inflammatory (M1-like) macrophage phenotype (CD68⁺/iNOS⁺/TNF-α⁺/IFN-γ⁺). These findings indicate that MARCO expression and macrophage polarization vary markedly across clinical forms of ACL and are strongly influenced by Leishmania species. This interaction promotes immunometabolic reprogramming that supports L. (L.) amazonensis persistence in ADCL, or proinflammatory responses associated with tissue damage in ML due to L. (V.) braziliensis. These processes highlight potential targets for immunotherapeutic strategies aimed at restoring host immunity in severe ACL.© 2026. The Author(s).
Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified numerous variant-trait associations; yet, assigning effector genes to GWAS loci remains challenging. Similarity-based machine-learning methods, such as PoPS, prioritize effector genes from shared functional profiles among trait-relevant genes. These models assign a prioritization score for each gene and nominate a single effector gene within a GWAS locus. However, the scores provide limited insight into why a gene was prioritized or whether the nomination is biologically plausible. To address this gap, we introduce Kernelized Polygenic Priority Score, K-PoPS, a kernelized reformulation of PoPS that enables gene-centric explanations by decomposing each prediction into contributions from training genes. For each prioritized gene, K-PoPS reports top contributor genes and an anchor score that quantifies support from a user-defined set of trait-relevant genes. Across 38 Pan-UK Biobank traits, the full-feature OLS implementation underlying K-PoPS improved closest-gene enrichment relative to default PoPS for 26 of 37 evaluable traits. Across 25 traits with curated anchor sets, predictions supported by anchor scores were more enriched for closest-gene proxies than unsupported predictions. When applying to blood level apolipoprotein B, K-PoPS nominated SCARB1 over UBC gene, and further provided convincing explanations that support this prediction. Using explanation evidence, K-PoPS identified multiple plausible effector genes within a dilated cardiomyopathy locus, contrary to the parsimonious assumption. In summary, K-PoPS provides a post hoc framework for examining and interpreting GWAS effector-gene nominations.
best4 + cells are a recently described vertebrate intestinal epithelial cell type. best4 + cells are altered in inflammatory bowel disease and colorectal cancer, suggesting that stimulation of their homeostatic replenishment may have therapeutic potential. However, the development and function of best4 + cells remain unclear. Since mice lack best4 + cells, we established zebrafish as a tractable in vivo model to observe, manipulate, and remove best4 + cells in an organismal context. We dissected best4 + cell developmental regulation in vivo from birth to differentiation and specialization, focusing on factors conserved in best4 + cells across vertebrates. Lineage tracing demonstrated that best4 + cells arise from secretory progenitors, where Notch/Dll4 signaling mediates a decision between best4 + and enterochromaffin cells by triggering meis1b expression. Following specification by meis1b, pbx3a spatially diversifies best4 + cells, which develop regional heterogeneity in gene expression, intracellular pH, and function. In vivo live imaging and removal of best4 + cells showed that best4+ cells sense luminal pH changes and extend dynamic luminal and stromal projections, but are not required to restore global luminal pH after challenge. Altogether, this study experimentally delineates best4 + cell developmental regulation and develops a genetic toolkit to examine their function in vivo, both of which will aid investigating how best4 + cells are altered or can be restored during disease.Published by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565971 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558716 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42543643 is a review article
Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified numerous loci for insomnia, yet functional validation of effector genes remains limited because most risk variants lie in noncoding regions, and the true causal gene is not known. Here, we use prior human cell-based variant-to-gene mapping to nominate six insomnia effector genes and test them in zebrafish, a tractable diurnal vertebrate model well-suited for sleep phenotyping. Our CRISPR-based behavioral screening identifies the MEIS1 ortholog, meis1b, as a regulator of sleep maintenance, with crispants displaying impaired nighttime-specific sleep maintenance and increased sleep latency. Comparative chromatin analyses reveal conserved regulatory architecture spanning the human insomnia-associated locus and selectively implicate meis1b, whereas the duplicated ohnolog meis1a was dispensable. Developmental profiling further shows that meis1b is expressed in cerebellar granule progenitors, paralleling human MEIS1 expression, and that its disruption impairs cerebellar development. Together, these findings establish zebrafish as an efficient vertebrate platform for functional interrogation of GWAS candidates and support an evolutionarily conserved cerebellar role for MEIS1 in sleep maintenance.Published by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42519171 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42518135 is a review article
Appendage degeneration is a notable morphological feature of some teleosts with specialized benthic lifestyles. The half-smooth tongue sole (Cynoglossus semilaevis) undergoes severe pectoral fin regression during metamorphosis. However, the molecular basis underlying rapid pectoral fin degeneration remains unclear. Here, we performed time-series transcriptome sequencing on pectoral fins at pre-metamorphosis, metamorphosis peak and post-metamorphosis to characterize the molecular changes associated with pectoral fin degeneration. Transcriptional dynamics and functional enrichment showed that no significant enrichment of classical apoptosis-related transcriptional pathways was detected during pectoral fin degeneration. Instead, sustained downregulation of twist1b, identified as a transcriptomic candidate, together with significant upregulation of ssh1, coupled with enrichment of lysosome and ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) pathways, suggested enhanced tissue remodeling during pectoral fin degeneration. Temporal expression clustering revealed heterochronic misalignment in the developmental gene expression: upstream initiator tbx5 was upregulated at early metamorphosis, while downstream maintenance signal fgf10 decreased synchronously. Distal patterning gene hoxd12a exhibited premature expression and rapid decay, losing sustained late-phase expression. Moreover, transient elevation of gli3 during metamorphosis may contribute to restricted distal fin growth. We conclude that pectoral fin degeneration in C. semilaevis is associated with heterochronic disruption of developmental signaling and extensive tissue remodeling. This study provides transcriptomic insights into pectoral fin degeneration in tongue soles and establishes a basis for future functional studies of appendage reduction in teleosts.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
The vertebrate limb buds, the embryonic precursors to arms and legs, emerge as cellular outgrowths from the somatic layer of the lateral plate mesoderm. In their work, Vighnesh Ghatpande, Can Cenik and Steve Vokes provide a comprehensive resource defining early regulatory events leading to forelimb bud initiation in the lateral plate mesoderm - a stage that remains poorly understood - and suggests additional roles for TBX5 (the earliest known forelimb-specific marker) beyond Fgf10. To learn more about their work, we talked to the first author Vighnesh Ghatpande, as well as the corresponding authors, Can Cenik, Associate Professor, and Steve Vokes, Professor, both in the Department of Molecular Biosciences, The University of Texas at Austin, USA.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Perfluorobutanesulfonic acid (PFBS), a short-chain per- and polyfluoroalkyl substance (PFAS) adopted as a replacement for perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS), is ubiquitously detected in environmental matrices and human biological samples. Despite growing regulatory concern, the molecular mechanisms by which PFBS affects prostate tissue at environmentally relevant concentrations remain poorly characterized. In the present study, we exposed human prostate epithelial (RWPE-1) and stromal (WPMY-1) cells to PFBS (0-100 nM, 24 h) and integrated in vitro mechanistic analyses with genome-wide RNA sequencing (RNA-seq), Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment, KEGG pathway analysis, and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network clustering. At concentrations maintaining cell viability above 80%, PFBS induced opposing responses in the two cell types. In RWPE-1 epithelial cells, PFBS activated the PI3K-AKT-GSK3β axis with concurrent nuclear β-catenin accumulation, upregulation of Wnt target genes, S-phase entry, and induction of an IGF-1/IGF-2 autocrine loop. In WPMY-1 stromal cells, PFBS suppressed the PI3K-AKT axis, induced G0/G1 arrest, caused approximately 400% ROS elevation, depolarized mitochondrial membranes, decreased GPX4, and upregulated ACSL4 and intracellular Fe2 + accumulation, collectively suggesting heightened ferroptosis susceptibility, along with reduced expression of stromal paracrine factors (FGF7, FGF10 and HGF). RNA-seq and bioinformatics analyses revealed markedly divergent transcriptional landscapes between two cell types. GO enrichment identified phospholipid metabolic process and Wnt signaling as the dominant RWPE-1 programs, and extrinsic apoptotic signaling and mitochondrion organization regulation in WPMY-1. These findings suggest that, under these in vitro conditions, PFBS can simultaneously activate Wnt signaling in epithelial cells and promote ferroptosis susceptibility in stromal cells, a divergent response pattern not captured by conventional single-endpoint toxicity assays. As these observations were obtained in isolated monocultures, they should be interpreted as cell-autonomous vulnerabilities that require validation in co-culture, organoid, and in vivo systems before any inference regarding human systemic risk can be drawn.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42557142 is a review article
Diabetes mellitus (DM) is characterized by chronic metabolic stress that promotes oxidative damage, genomic instability, and premature cellular aging, with adipose tissue senescence being a pivotal contributor to metabolic dysfunction. Yet the impact on DNA damage repair (DDR) and telomere maintenance in adipose tissue remains poorly defined. This study investigated DDR capacity, telomere integrity, and the senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP) in adipose tissue and adipose-derived stromal cells (ADSCs) under diabetic conditions. Using an obese diabetic (ob/ob) mouse model, we confirmed whole-blood telomere shortening, significant adipose tissue hypertrophy, metabolic dysregulation, and elevated DNA damage, evidenced by increased γH2AX-positive staining. In vitro, ADSCs exposed to a diabetic microenvironment (AGEs and TNFα) exhibited increased reactive oxygen species and DNA damage without a corresponding activation of DDR pathways, as indicated by unchanged PARP1 levels and broad downregulation of key DNA repair genes, including sensors (ATM, ABL1, RAD17) and effectors across MMR, NER, HR, and NHEJ pathways. This impaired genomic surveillance was accompanied by premature cellular senescence and significant repression of genes involved in telomere protection (shelterin complex), telomerase activity, and telomere maintenance, together with marked telomere shortening following prolonged exposure. Furthermore, diabetic conditions increased the secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines, chemokines, and growth factors. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that the diabetic microenvironment is associated with maladaptive DDR responses, telomere dysfunction, cellular senescence, and a pro-inflammatory secretory phenotype. This study highlights compromised genomic maintenance as a potential key mechanism underpinning adipose tissue dysfunction in DM and emphasizes the need for future investigations into the mechanisms underlying dysregulated DDR and telomere biology.© the author(s).
The rarer p190 (e1a2) transcript in chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is associated with atypical presentations; yet, its biological basis remains poorly understood. Using a cohort of 60 patients including 42 chronic phase patients age-matched 1:1 with 42 e13a2/e14a2 patients in the chronic phase, we investigated the clinical, genomic, and clonal features of e1a2 BCR::ABL1 CML. We identified 60 e1a2 BCR::ABL1 CML patients showing distinctive hematologic features including lower leukocyte and platelet counts and higher monocytosis (12.3% vs. 2.0%, P < 0.001). Additional somatic mutations were detected in 37/42 (88%) e1a2 BCR::ABL1 cases compared with 7/42 (17%) e13a2/e14a2 BCR::ABL1 cases. The mutational spectrum was dominated by ASXL1 and TET2, and closely resembled CMML-like profiles. Genomic breakpoint sequences of 34 e1a2 BCR::ABL1 cases showed that BCR and ABL1 coordinates were similar to those observed in 394 B-ALL. Longitudinal mutational tracking revealed two distinct clonal architectures. In 71% of patients, mutations disappeared with molecular response, consistent with BCR::ABL1 as the founding event. In contrast, 29% of patients had mutations with stable VAFs, while BCR::ABL1 transcript levels decreased after treatment, indicating that the fusion had been acquired within a pre-existing mutated clone. Single-cell genotyping experiments confirmed these clonal architectures. These patients frequently developed cytopenias under tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy and half required red blood cell transfusions, reflecting persistence of the ancestral clone rather than BCR::ABL1-driven disease. These findings show that e1a2 BCR::ABL1 CML frequently arises within complex, premutated clonal backgrounds, providing a biological basis for its atypical presentation and heterogeneous treatment response.© 2026 The Author(s). HemaSphere published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of European Hematology Association.
Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is a rare hematologic malignancy in children, typically presenting with leukocytosis in the peripheral blood, and often accompanied by symptoms such as fever or splenomegaly. This report describes a rare pediatric case of CML that manifested solely as isolated thrombocytosis. Due to this atypical presentation, the patient was initially misdiagnosed with essential thrombocythemia (ET) and treated with hydroxyurea and aspirin, which yielded no clinical response. The diagnosis of CML was subsequently confirmed by detection of the BCR::ABL1 fusion gene. Upon confirmation, the patient was promptly initiated on imatinib therapy and achieved a complete cytogenetic response within 4 months. We also conducted a literature review of similar cases, discussing their prognosis and differential diagnosis with ET, and recommend early BCR::ABL1 fusion gene testing in all pediatric patients presenting with isolated thrombocytosis to ensure accurate diagnosis.© 2026 He and Fu.
Early achievement of deep remission improves patients' outcome in chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) treatment, highlighting the need for predictive indicators before therapy initiation. This study aimed to investigate whether baseline hematologic profiles are associated with molecular response in CML. Using hierarchical clustering of complete blood count (CBC) data at diagnosis, patients were stratified into two clusters. Patients in Cluster 1 had higher BCR::ABL1IS mRNA levels at 3 and 6 months post-treatment and lower rates of major molecular response compared to cluster 2. Cluster 1 also showed increased granulocyte and immature white blood cell counts and decreased erythroid parameters. Flow cytometric analysis of bone marrow mononuclear cells revealed that cluster 1 had a significant increase in hematopoietic stem cell fractions and a higher ratio of granulocyte-macrophage progenitors to megakaryocyte-erythroid progenitors compared to cluster 2. These findings suggest that differences in bone marrow progenitor cell differentiation affect peripheral blood profiles. Artificial intelligence-driven ghost cytometry (GC) comprehensively captured these differences, distinguishing poor responders, with diagnostic GC scores correlating with BCR::ABL1IS mRNA levels. The study indicates that multivariate analysis of CBC and GC captures biological features associated with early molecular response in CML. TEASER ABSTRACT: Baseline complete blood count (CBC) profiles stratified patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) into biologically distinct groups with different early molecular responses. Poor responders had higher BCR::ABL1IS levels, lower major molecular response rates, expanded hematopoietic stem cell fractions, and granulocyte-macrophage progenitor-biased differentiation. Artificial intelligence-driven Ghost Cytometry (GC) comprehensively captured these response-associated features of CBC with scores correlating with BCR::ABL1IS levels. Together, CBC and GC capture biological features associated with early molecular response in CML.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42543639 is a review article
Tyrosine kinase inhibitors are recommended as maintenance therapy following allogeneic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) for Philadelphia chromosome-positive (Ph+) acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), but optimal medication, dose, and duration remain a subject of ongoing study. We provide the final analysis of a prospective randomized trial comparing prophylactic and minimal residual disease (MRD)-triggered imatinib maintenance. The two patient cohorts did not differ significantly in terms of cumulative incidence of relapse (CIR; 14% vs. 18%), non-relapse mortality (NRM; 12% vs. 11%), leukemia-free survival (LFS) 64% vs. 69%, and overall survival (OS) at 10 years (68% vs. 71%). Endpoints were assessed every 6 weeks within the trial from 4 weeks after SCT until EOS at week 55 and after that according to local standards. In summary, this provides a framework for MRD-based treatment of patients for maintenance after HSCT with excellent long-term outcome after 10 years in both groups.
We describe a unique case of SAMD9-associated myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) with monosomy 7 that evolved over 16 years into BCR::ABL1-positive acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and subsequently manifested as B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL). Genomic analysis at AML diagnosis revealed a germline SAMD9 mutation together with somatic RUNX1 and PPM1D mutations, supporting stepwise clonal evolution, with BCR::ABL1 emerging as a late leukemogenic event. The dominant leukemic population at AML onset showed myeloid morphology and immunophenotype, whereas a minor CD19+CD10+ population was already detectable. Following venetoclax and azacitidine therapy, the dominant leukemic phenotype shifted to B-ALL while retaining BCR::ABL1 positivity. Detection of the Philadelphia chromosome in mature neutrophils at both AML onset and ALL relapse supported multilineage involvement of a multipotent BCR::ABL1-positive clone. Ponatinib achieved disease control. This case highlights late acquisition of BCR::ABL1 during SAMD9-associated clonal evolution and therapy-driven phenotypic shift within a shared Ph-positive leukemic stem-cell hierarchy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Pediatric chronic myeloid leukemia in the blast phase (CML-BP) is rare and high-risk, requiring early hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). Tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) combined with intensive chemotherapy prior to HSCT is associated with substantial toxicity, often causing complications that delay HSCT. Therefore, safer attenuated regimens are urgently needed.We retrospectively analyzed CML-BP pediatric patients treated with TKI plus venetoclax and assessed treatment safety via hematological and non-hematological adverse events.Six pediatric patients (five males and one female) treated with TKI and venetoclax were retrospectively collected from September 2022 to September 2025, with a median age of 13 years. Four patients presented with the lymphoid blast phase (CML-LBP), one with the myeloid blast phase (CML-MBP) and one with central nervous system leukemia (CNSL). After one cycle of TKI combined with venetoclax, four patients showed a decrease in BCR::ABL1 international scales (BCR::ABL1IS) transcript ratio in bone marrow fluid was >1 log, and five patients achieved minimal residual disease (MRD)-negative. With a median follow-up of 17 months, five of the six patients were alive. The safety profile was excellent, with Grade-2-3 hematological toxicities and Grade 1 nausea in six patients, Grade 2 fever in one patient, and Grade 1 hyperbilirubinemia in one patient. All the adverse reactions were alleviated with symptomatic therapy.The combination of TKI and venetoclax may be a viable strategy for treating pediatric patients with CML-BP.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is treated with Abl1 tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs). Quiescent cancer cells residing in the bone marrow (BM) can survive the treatment and cause CML relapse. We previously found that a subset of alternative splicing (AS) changes detected in CML cells surviving months of therapy are initiated within hours of treatment onset. Here, we investigated how AS in CML cells is modulated by the human BM microenvironment. By incorporating humanized BM niche models in vivo, we uncovered stroma-induced transcriptome adaptation that influences transcriptional regulation, transmembrane transport, lipid metabolism, the tricarboxylic acid cycle, and respiratory electron transport. We identified RNA-binding protein TIAR (T-cell intracellular antigen-related protein) as a key mediator of CML survival under TKI imatinib treatment. Our data show TIAR-dependent coordination of RNA processing with the metabolic program induced by stromal interaction. Quantitative nascent proteome analysis revealed that TIAR silencing affects the synthesis of metabolic enzymes and proteins involved in imatinib-induced erythroid differentiation. Besides, TIAR knockdown increased lipid peroxidation in untreated cells and decreased reduction potential in cells upon imatinib treatment. Taken together, TIAR deficiency reduces CML survival, possibly by inducing ferroptosis. These findings identify TIAR-dependent RNA processing within the BM niche as a previously unrecognized mechanism of CML therapy resistance and a potential therapeutic vulnerability.
SMARCA4-deficient undifferentiated tumors (SMARCA4-dUT) have been included in the latest WHO classification of tumors. This study examined the cytomorphology, management, molecular features and prognosis of malignancies harboring SMARCA4 alterations.Biopsied cytologic slides were reviewed. Next-generation sequencing (NGS) and clinical data were analyzed.Thirty-four cases with SMARCA4 alterations were identified, including 13 primary and 21 metastatic tumors, sampled primarily from lung (35%), lymph nodes (26%) and liver (15%). Tumor origins were predominantly the lung (61%) and gallbladder (9%). The most common tumor type was adenocarcinoma (70%). Predominant architectures included nested, single-cell, tubular/acinar, and 3D clusters. Cells were most commonly round and columnar, with medium cytoplasm mostly showing vacuoles and granular features. Nuclear grade 2-3 was seen in 93% of cases, with prominent nucleoli and coarse chromatin. SMARCA4 alteration included mutations (32) and loss (2). These tumors are characterized by a high co-mutation burden, including TP53 (62%), KRAS (35%), and STK11 (15%). Prognosis is further modulated by allelic status (biallelic vs. monoallelic vs. subclonal), and mutations in DDR pathway (24%). Most tumors presented as stage IV. 26% received surgical resection. Overall, 74% underwent chemotherapy and 29% radiotherapy. Mean follow-up was 17 months, with 2-year OS of 49.1%. Twenty-three (68%) patients were current or former smokers.SMARCA4-altered malignancies show diverse differentiation and lack consistent cytomorphologic features. Majority of cases were differentiated malignancies and only four cases (12%) were undifferentiated, suggesting SMARCA4 alterations were associated with poor prognosis but were not exclusive drivers of undifferentiated malignancy.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Pancreatic cancer (PC) is known to be a highly fatal malignancy, and elucidating new molecular mechanisms is of great importance. In this study, we investigated NECTIN4 (PVRL4), which is associated with poor prognosis, via bioinformatics approach. We used following tools and datasets: For differential gene expression analysis, TCGA TARGET GTEx study on UCSC Xena, GSE183795, GSE71729 and GSE196009 GEO datasets; for associations with clinicopathological and promoter methylation features, UALCAN; for correlations with overall survival (OS), disease-free survival (DFS) gene chip database, and for correlations with OS and relapse-free survival (RFS) RNAseq database in the Kaplan-Meier (KM) plotter; for correlations with OS and Progression-Free Interval (PFI), DoSurvive; for immune infiltration correlations, TIMER3; for expression changes in hotspot mutations, GEPIA 3; for potentially related pathways, diseases, and processes, the Gscore online tool; for gene alterations detections, cBioPortal; and identifying potential targeting miRNAs, miRDB, TargetScanHuman 8.0, ENCORI, and DoSurvive. NECTIN4 (PVRL4) is upregulated in primary pancreatic adenocarcinoma in TCGA TARGET GTEx study (log2FC=2.015633, adj.P.Val=4.62E-21) and in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas in GSE183795 (log2FC=0.726, adj.P.Val=10-16.895) GSE196009 (log2FC=2.807, adj.P.Val=10-3.855) GSE71729 (log2FC= 1.227, adj.P.Val=10-10.318) datasets, and may be associated with unfavorable OS (p = 3.63E-02) and PFI (p = 8.09E-03) independent of age at diagnosis, sex, and stage in DoSurvive. In KM plotter RNA seq database, increased NECTIN4 (PVRL4) expression was statistically significantly associated only with shortened OS (p = 0.008). NECTIN4 (PVRL4) expressions are higher in the following traits than in others: In Asians compared to normals (p = 4.949700E-02) and Caucasian (p = 4.480000E-03); in chronic pancreatitis patients from normals (p=3.456300E-02); in grade 2 (p = 2.420600E-04) and grade 3 (p = 1.875500E-03) from grade 1; in TP53 mutants from nonmutants (p = 7.6379999999987E-05). NECTIN4 (PVRL4) correlates positively or negatively with many immune cell types, some of which are also associated with OS. NECTIN4 is upregulated in KRAS (log2FC=1.78, p = 1.05E-17), TP53 (log2FC=0.959, p = 1.22E-05), SMAD4 (log2FC=1.02, p = 0.000111), CDKN2A (log2FC=0.668, p = 0.0144), and RNF43 (log2FC=0.917, p = 0.0393) mutant samples. NECTIN4 (PVRL4) is associated with many pathways, processes, and diseases these may be related to PC. Six patients have amplification, and one patient has a splice mutation. hsa-miR-329-3p and hsa-miR-5586-5p may be potential negative regulatory miRNAs of NECTIN4 (PVRL4). NECTIN4 (PVRL4) may be associated with many pathways awaiting experimental illumination in PC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565918 is a review article
Colorectal cancer is a common gastrointestinal malignancy worldwide. KRAS gene mutation is an important molecular feature of colorectal cancer, but the clinical significance of different mutation sites remains unclear. This study aims to investigate the distribution characteristics of specific KRAS gene mutation sites and analyze their associations with clinicopathological parameters and survival outcomes in patients with colorectal cancer, thereby providing a basis for precise stratified diagnosis and treatment.A total of 550 patients with colorectal cancer who underwent surgical treatment at the Affiliated Cancer Hospital of Zhengzhou University from May 2018 to January 2020 were retrospectively included, and tumor tissue specimens were retained from all patients. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was first used to screen all specimens for KRAS gene mutations, and the overall mutation rate was calculated. High-throughput sequencing was then performed on 210 of these specimens using the Illumina Nova sequencing platform to determine the specific mutation types at codons 12 and 13 of exon 2 of the KRAS gene. Clinicopathological data, including age, sex, tumor stage, lymph node metastasis status, and primary lesion diameter, were collected. Survival data were obtained through outpatient follow-up and telephone follow-up, with the follow-up cutoff date of December 29, 2023. Univariate and multivariate Cox proportional hazards regression models were used to identify independent risk factors affecting prognosis. Variables were included based on a univariate analysis threshold of P<0.10 and clinically recognized key variables, such as tumor stage and lymph node metastasis.Among the 550 specimens, KRAS gene mutations were detected in 232 cases, with an overall mutation rate of 42.18%. Among the 210 specimens subjected to high-throughput sequencing, mutations were detected in 155 cases, with a mutation rate of 73.81%. Seven mutation types were identified. G12D was the most common mutation site (19.52%), followed by G12V (12.86%), G13D (12.86%), G12S (10.95%), G12A (8.57%), G12C (8.10%), and double mutations, including G12D+G12V and G12V+G13D, each accounting for 0.48%. Analysis of associations with clinical features showed that the proportion of patients with lymph node metastasis at initial diagnosis was 73.17% (30/41) among patients with the G12D mutation, which was significantly higher than that in patients with wild-type KRAS [38.18% (21/55), P<0.05]. However, the proportion of patients with a primary lesion diameter ≥4 cm was 36.59% in the G12D mutation group, which did not differ significantly from that in the wild-type group (25.45%, P>0.05). The proportions of patients with a primary lesion diameter ≥4 cm were 66.67%, 76.47%, 78.26%, and 66.67% among patients with G12A, G12C, G12S, and G13D mutations, respectively, all of which were significantly higher than that in the wild-type group (all P<0.05). However, the proportions of lymph node metastasis in these mutation groups did not differ significantly from that in the wild-type group (P>0.05). Cox proportional hazards regression analysis demonstrated that tumor stage Ⅲ-Ⅳ (HR=1.820, 95% CI 1.194 to 2.774, P=0.005), G12C mutation (HR=2.014, 95% CI 1.321 to 3.069, P=0.001), G12D mutation (HR=1.857, 95% CI 1.218 to 2.930, P=0.004), and G12V mutation (HR=1.751, 95% CI 1.149 to 2.669, P=0.009) were independent risk factors for death in patients with colorectal cancer.Different KRAS gene mutation sites are specifically associated with clinical features of colorectal cancer. The G12D mutation is associated with a high risk of lymph node metastasis, whereas G12A, G12C, G12S, and G13D mutations are associated with increased primary tumor size. G12C, G12D, and G12V mutations are independent prognostic risk factors and may serve as potential molecular markers for risk stratification and individualized treatment.
Anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) fusions are established oncogenic drivers and therapeutic targets in multiple malignancies, including non-small cell lung cancer but are rare in colorectal cancer (CRC). Although ALK fusions in CRC have been associated with sensitivity to ALK inhibitors, their broader genomic context remains incompletely defined. We aimed to characterize the prevalence, clinicogenomic features, and therapeutic implications of ALK fusions in advanced CRC.Comprehensive genomic profiling using hybrid capture-based next-generation sequencing was performed on 56,206 advanced CRC tumors to identify alterations, including ALK fusions. Microsatellite instability (MSI)/mismatch repair (MMR) status, tumor mutational burden (TMB), genomic ancestry, COSMIC trinucleotide signatures, and homologous recombination deficiency (HRD) signatures were derived from sequencing data. PD-L1 expression was assessed by immunohistochemistry.ALK fusions were identified in 63 tumors (0.1%). Compared with ALK fusion-negative CRC, ALK fusion-positive (ALKfus+) tumors demonstrated enrichment for MSI-high/MMR-deficient status and high TMB, with numerically higher PD-L1 expression. In contrast, canonical CRC driver alterations were markedly depleted, including KRAS, APC, and PIK3CA mutations.ALK fusions define a rare but biologically distinct subset of CRC characterized by frequent MSI-high/MMR-deficient status and a unique genomic landscape. These findings support comprehensive genomic profiling to identify ALK fusions in CRC, which may inform the use of ALK-directed therapies, and highlight the frequent co-occurrence of MSI-high disease within this subgroup.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Although multigene testing for advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is reimbursed in Japan, optimizing its real-world clinical impact remains challenging. This study updates nationwide testing trends and evaluates the treatment gap between diagnostic results and first-line therapeutic interventions. We conducted a retrospective cohort study using the Diagnosis Procedure Combination database (April 2019 to May 2024). The analysis included 24,047 patients with Stage IV NSCLC across 300 hospitals who underwent diagnostic lung biopsies. Comprehensive multigene testing shifted significantly; testing for ≥ 5 genes rose sharply from late 2021, followed by a marked increase in 6-7 gene testing from mid-2023. Testing for rare drivers (MET, RET, KRAS, HER2) increased substantially. However, approximately 30% of patients remained untested regardless of region or age. While the proportion of patients receiving first-line targeted therapy plateaued at just under 30%, the use of targeted therapies for rare drivers showed a steady increase. In conclusion, multigene testing has rapidly replaced single-gene testing in Japan, narrowing the diagnostic gap for rare oncogenic drivers. Nevertheless, the persistent 30% untested rate emphasizes the need for better shared decision-making to ensure all patients receive comprehensive biomarker evaluation.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Science published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.
Systemic inflammatory manifestations caused by hematologic malignancies may be very similar to autoimmune diseases, making diagnosis difficult. Acute monocytic leukemia (AML-M5) is characterized by significant cytokine production and, in rare cases, can mimic large vessel vasculitis (LVV).A 56-year-old female with a two-week history of recurrent fever accompanied by significantly elevated inflammatory markers. Laboratory tests showed elevated levels of erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), C-reactive protein (CRP), and ferritin. The infection and autoimmune assessment are not significant. 18F-FDG PET/CT showed increased metabolic activity along the aortic arch, descending aorta, and bilateral iliac arteries, which raised suspicion of LVV. Glucocorticoid treatment quickly alleviated fever and partially reduced inflammation index. However, follow-up showed marked leukocytosis, monocytosis, anemia and thrombocytopenia. Bone marrow examination confirmed acute monocytic leukemia. Cytogenetic analysis confirmed that t (11; 19) (q23; p13.1) is consistent with KMT2A rearrangement. Next generation sequencing detected KRAS p.G13D and ETV6 p.L341F mutations.AML with monocyte differentiation may exhibit systemic inflammation and vascular FDG uptake, thus mimicking LVV. Understanding this presentation is crucial. For patients with atypical inflammatory features, early hematological assessment should be considered to avoid delayed diagnosis.Copyright © 2026 Nie, Wang, Shen and Han.
The tumor immune microenvironment influences non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) progression and therapy response. Programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) is a key biomarker for immune checkpoint blockade, yet the genomic correlates of its expression status require elucidation.We analyzed 97 advanced lung adenocarcinoma patients, (13 cases-all from the PD-L1-unknown subgroup-excluded due to insufficient sequencing quality, leaving 84 cases for downstream analyses) categorized by PD-L1 expression (positive: n=32; negative: n=45; unknown: n=20). Genomic profiling was performed using a 95-gene targeted NGS panel. Analyses included mutational profiling, pathway enrichment (GO/KEGG), gene interaction patterns, and genomic complexity.The cohort was predominantly metastatic (99.0%). Dominant mutations were in EGFR(43.80%), TP53(38.02%), and KRAS(11.57%). PD-L1-positive tumors more frequently harbored EGFRE746_A750del, while TP53 mutations were enriched in PD-L1-negative cases. Somatic interaction analysis revealed significant EGFR/TP53 co-occurrence in PD-L1-positive tumors and TP53/RB1 co-occurrence in negative tumors. GO analysis showed PD-L1-positive tumors were enriched for kinase-related functions, reflecting a distinct EGFR-driven biology characterized by a striking 59.26% prevalence of EGFR mutations. KEGG analysis indicated immune pathway enrichment in this subgroup, supporting an oncogene-induced immune phenotype frequently synergized by TP53 co-alterations. In contrast, PD-L1-negative tumors correlated with co-mutation-prone, metabolism-oriented profiles and immune suppression. Mutual exclusivity patterns differed: in PD-L1-positive tumors, EGFRmutations were mutually exclusive with KRAS/NRAS/HRASmutations, suggesting a single dominant driver. PD-L1-negative tumors displayed more co-occurring alterations (e.g., TP53 with STK11 or PTEN). Furthermore, 24% of PD-L1-positive tumors had multiple concurrent alterations, a proportion significantly higher than in PD-L1-negative tumors (8%; P<0.05).This study delineates distinct genomic landscapes associated with PD-L1 expression. PD-L1-positive status is linked to an immune-active, kinase-signaling-driven phenotype with mutually exclusive drivers. PD-L1-negative status correlates with a more immunosuppressive, co-mutation-prone, and metabolism-oriented profile. These findings provide molecular insights into immune heterogeneity and may inform tailored combination therapies.Copyright © 2026 Huang, Yao, Zhang, Song, Wang, Zhao, Ji, Zhu, Zhao and Zhang.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42562082 is a review article
Approximately 90% of patients with pancreatic cancer harbor KRAS mutations, predominantly the KRASG12D subtype. HRS-4642, a non-covalent inhibitor targeting KRASG12D, demonstrates potent antitumor efficacy but may ultimately lead to resistance. This study investigates the mechanisms underlying KRASG12D inhibitor resistance and evaluates strategies to enhance treatment sensitivity. Our findings indicate that a glutamine-restricted diet not only reverses KRASG12D inhibitor resistance in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) but also achieves remission with prolonging survival. Mechanistically, KRASG12D inhibitor resistance markedly upregulates ANXA1 expression, which, in turn, promotes its binding to the glutamine-related enzyme GOT1 and stabilizes its expression. Additionally, we find that ANXA1 upregulation facilitates mitochondrial localization of GLS1, thereby altering glutamine metabolism. These findings highlight ANXA1-mediated glutamine metabolism as a key driver of KRASG12D inhibitor resistance and support glutamine-restricted diets as a potential therapeutic strategy for KRASG12D mutant PDAC.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
In this study, we investigated the toxicological mechanisms of trifloxystrobin (TFX), a widely used strobilurin fungicide, on zebrafish embryos, focusing on cardiovascular development and function. Embryos were exposed to TFX (100-500 μg/L) for 96 h. The compound exhibited high acute toxicity with a 96-h median lethal concentration (LC50) of ~320 μg/L. At 200-300 μg/L, TFX induced bioenergetic impairment, manifested as growth retardation and nutrient retention in the yolk sac. The prevalence of pericardial edema served as a hallmark of cardiac dysfunction, prompting a detailed functional assessment. A detailed cardiovascular analysis revealed a critical hemodynamic paradox. While TFX-exposed embryos exhibited bradycardia and a compensatory increase in the ventricular ejection fraction and wall thickness, effective systemic circulation was severely compromised. An advanced regurgitation analysis demonstrated that TFX caused severe atrioventricular valve insufficiency and retrograde blood flow, leading to a significant overestimation of cardiac output when calculated by standard volumetric methods alone. An analysis of the dorsal aorta confirmed a genuine reduction in the arterial blood flow velocity, validating the presence of circulatory failure despite myocardial hyper-contractility. Mechanistically, the hemodynamic alteration was linked to significant downregulation of the klf2a flow-sensitive transcription factor, which impaired valve morphogenesis, while the concurrent upregulation of nppa, nppb, and gata4 signaled pathological cardiac stress and hypertrophy. These findings elucidate a mechano-molecular toxicity pathway for TFX and highlight the technical necessity of coupling a regurgitation analysis with peripheral flow assessment to accurately evaluate cardiac toxicity in aquatic models.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Plastic additives leach from agricultural plastics into cropland soils, yet the non-phthalate plastic additives (NPPAs) increasingly used as replacements for regulated phthalates remain poorly monitored, particularly in soils. In this study, 28 NPPAs were screened in cropland soils from southeastern Spain (48 sites, 96 samples) by gas and liquid chromatography, both coupled to quadrupole-Orbitrap high-resolution mass spectrometry, comparing intensively managed greenhouse soils with extensively managed open-field soils. Ten out of the 28 targeted NPPAs were detected and identified; total concentrations (∑NPPA) ranged from 32.7 to 444,199.4 µg/kg (geometric mean: 1629.4 µg/kg) and were about ten-fold higher in greenhouse than in open-field soils (median 1470.2 vs. 148.1 µg/kg; p = 1.4 × 10-5). Triacetin showed the highest detection frequency (88.5%), followed by acetyl tributyl citrate (67.7%). Complementary non-targeted analysis revealed additional compounds identified at varying confidence levels (Schymanski Levels 1-2), including phthalates, other NPPAs, and various anthropogenic contaminants, underscoring the chemical complexity of cropland soils. A screening-level health-risk assessment indicated that hazard quotients (HQs) for triacetin exceeded unity in both adults (up to 2.1) and toddlers (up to 1.6), driven by the dietary pathway (soil-to-plant), while its predicted rat LD50 value (4808 mg/kg) indicated higher acute toxicity than that of regulated phthalates. These findings show that the substitution of phthalates by NPPAs shifts rather than removes the chemical burden entering agroecosystems, and that NPPAs warrant inclusion in soil-monitoring programs.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Cell therapy using pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes (PSC-CMs) has emerged as a promising strategy for cardiac regeneration. Although transplanted PSC-CMs can contribute to remuscularization, accumulating evidence suggests that paracrine mechanisms also play an important role in functional recovery. Among potential paracrine factors, atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) and B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) are highly expressed in PSC-CMs; however, whether PSC-CM-derived ANP and BNP contribute to cardiac repair after transplantation remains to be determined.In this study, we generated human induced pluripotent stem cell (hiPSC) lines deficient in ANP (NPPA knockout), BNP (NPPB knockout), or both peptides using CRISPR-Cas9 genome editing. These iPSCs were differentiated into cardiomyocytes, and their characteristics and paracrine effects were then examined in vitro using endothelial cell assays and co-culture with cardiac fibroblasts.ANP- and/or BNP-deficient hiPSC-derived cardiomyocytes (hiPSC-CMs) showed comparable cardiac differentiation efficiency, cell size, proliferative capacity, and susceptibility to apoptosis compared with wild-type hiPSC-CMs. In trans-well migration and Matrigel tube formation assays, conditioned medium from wild-type hiPSC-CMs significantly enhanced endothelial cell migration and tube formation compared with medium from double-knockout hiPSC-CMs lacking both ANP and BNP, suggesting that natriuretic peptides contribute to the pro-angiogenic effects of hiPSC-CMs in vitro. In contrast, co-culture with hiPSC-CMs attenuated TGF-β1-induced myofibroblast gene expression in cardiac fibroblasts regardless of natriuretic peptide deficiency, possibly reflecting minimal expression of the natriuretic peptide receptor NPRA in fibroblasts under in vitro conditions.These findings suggest that ANP and BNP are involved in the pro-angiogenic paracrine activity of hiPSC-CMs in vitro. This study provides genetically modified hiPSC-CM models that may serve as a platform for future in vivo transplantation studies to determine whether PSC-CM-derived natriuretic peptides contribute to cardiac repair after transplantation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The current study introduces a novel polymer-coated filter paper sampler for passive vapor sampling and preconcentration of N-phenylpropanamide (NPPA), a target vapor surrogate for fentanyl, enabling presumptive identification of fentanyl. Building on prior work by, which identified ethylene glycol methyl ether acrylate (EGMEA) as a selective polymer for NPPA pre-concentrating, the present study evaluates EGMEA-coated filter paper as a practical and robust vapor sampler for fentanyl. Laboratory experiments demonstrated that EGMEA-coated filter paper effectively adsorbed NPPA, yielding 3.6 × 103 ng per quarter section of a 45 mm filter paper after a 48 h exposure to from 5 mg NPPA. Additionally, detectable levels of NPPA (39 ng per quarter) were observed following one week of passive sampling from 100 mg of reference-grade fentanyl. The validated sampler was then deployed in a drug laboratory survey across three forensic laboratories using standardized sampling kits. NPPA was detected from the seized fentanyl samples of diverse composition, with variable recoveries reflecting possible differences in formulation, dilution, and co-constituents. The EGMEA-coated filter paper platform offers a simple, low-cost, robust, alternative to conventional Solid Phase Microextraction (SPME) fibers and sorbent tubes. Coupled with Thermal Desorption - Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry (TD-GC/MS) for confirmation of NPPA, this work establishes EGMEA-coated filter paper as an effective field sampler for presumptive fentanyl identification, supporting field-based measurements in forensic research applications.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Emerging evidence implicates intestinal barrier dysfunction and translocation of microbial factors as key drivers of post-myocardial infarction inflammation and cardiac remodeling, yet therapeutic strategies targeting the gut-heart axis remain underdeveloped. Here we demonstrate that ALY688, an adiponectin receptor agonist peptide, confers robust cardioprotection in rat myocardial ischemia-reperfusion (IR) injury through coordinated immunoregulatory programs in cardiac and intestinal tissues. ALY688 administration during ischemia or at reperfusion and subsequently daily for 28 days significantly preserved cardiac function with improved ejection fraction and fractional shortening, reduced infarct size, and decreased cardiac troponin-I levels. Mechanistic investigation revealed tissue-specific immune reprogramming: in the myocardium, ALY688 directly activated macrophages to secrete TGFβ1, which promoted regulatory T cell (Treg) differentiation from naïve CD4 + T cells as validated in macrophage-T cell co-culture systems. This macrophage-to-Treg axis suppressed inflammasome activation and IL-1β/IL-23/IL-6 signaling while enhancing anti-inflammatory macrophage polarization. Simultaneously, ALY688 strengthened intestinal barrier integrity through activation of the RORγt/IL-17 pathway, upregulating tight junction proteins (Claudin-1, ZO-1) and mucins (MUC19, MUC22), thereby limiting systemic spillover of bacterial endotoxin (LPS) and other microbial metabolites. Multi-omics profiling supported this dual-compartment mechanism: proteomics revealed modulation of immune regulatory (CAPG, CORO1A, MCAM) and cardioprotective (clusterin, NPPA) proteins, while metabolomics demonstrated attenuation by ALY688 of post-IR elevations in pathogenic gut-derived metabolites (anthranilic acid, imidazole propionate, linoleic acid derivatives). This study establishes adiponectin receptor activation as a multi-organ immunometabolic intervention that simultaneously resolves cardiac inflammation while protecting intestinal barrier function. These findings provide mechanistic insight for therapeutic strategies that target the gut-heart axis to address a major remaining unmet clinical need in ischemic heart disease.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Doxorubicin is a widely used chemotherapeutic agent, but its clinical application is hindered by severe cardiotoxicity. Among immune cells, Cx3cr1+ macrophages have emerged as key regulators of cardiovascular disease, with their development and maturation tightly controlled by CSF1R (colony stimulating factor 1 receptor). Using multi-omics sequencing, we observed a marked expansion of Cx3cr1+ macrophages in doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy, yet their precise functional role in this pathological process has remained elusive. This study employed various genetically modified mouse models, including cell depletion models, lineage tracing models, and conditional gene knockout models targeting Cx3cr1+ macrophages, alongside transcriptomic sequencing, proteomic profiling, and multi-level in vivo and in vitro experiments to elucidate the role and mechanisms of Cx3cr1+ macrophages and their receptor CSF1R in doxorubicin-induced cardiac injury. We found that Cx3cr1+ macrophages are significantly enriched in hearts affected by doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy, and their depletion notably improves cardiac function. Further investigation revealed that in these macrophages, CSF1R competitively binds to the E3 ubiquitin ligase NEDD4, thereby inhibiting the ubiquitination and degradation of PARP1. This process promotes inflammasome activation and pyroptosis, driving massive IL1B secretion. IL1B directly suppresses cardiomyocyte mitophagy, disrupts energy metabolic homeostasis, and ultimately leads to cardiac dysfunction. Notably, the use of the CSF1R inhibitor PLX3397 or an IL1B-neutralizing antibody effectively halted these pathological processes and significantly improved cardiac function. In summary, this study unveils a novel mechanism through which Cx3cr1+ macrophages regulate cardiomyocyte function via the CSF1R-PARP1-IL1B-mitophagy signaling axis, providing a new theoretical foundation and intervention strategy for doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy targeted therapy.Abbreviations: BMDM: bone marrow-derived macrophages; CKMB: creatine kinase MB isoenzyme; CSF1R: colony stimulating factor 1 receptor; csf1r-cKO: csf1r conditional knockout; DIC: doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy; DOX: doxorubicin; HE: hematoxylin and eosin; HW:TL: heart weight:tibial length; LDH: lactate dehydrogenase; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtuble-associated protein 1 light chain 3; NPPA: natriuretic peptide type A; PI: propidium iodide; PYCARD/ASC: PYD and CARD domain containing; TNNT2/cTnT: troponin T2, cardiac; WGA: wheat germ agglutinin.
BACKGROUND Hypertension management is often suboptimal due to interindividual variability in drug response. Pharmacogenomics testing may guide personalized therapy by identifying genetic polymorphisms affecting drug efficacy and safety. This study aimed to evaluate whether pharmacogenomics-guided therapy improves blood pressure control and treatment compliance and reduces rehospitalization in patients with hypertension. MATERIAL AND METHODS In this prospective randomized controlled trial, 900 patients with hypertension were assigned to a control group (CG, n=450) receiving conventional care or a study group (SG, n=450) receiving pharmacogenomic-guided therapy. Six gene loci (CYP2D6, CYP2C9, AGTR1, ACE, NPPA, CYP3A5) related to 5 antihypertensive drug classes were tested. Outcomes included blood pressure control rate, compliance, adverse reactions, drug adjustments, and 6-month readmission rate. RESULTS The SG achieved significantly higher blood pressure control rates at 3 months (80.7% vs 70.2%, P<0.001) and 6 months (78.4% vs 65.1%, P<0.001) compared with the CG. Treatment compliance was also higher in the SG (98.0% vs 74.0%, P<0.001). angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor-related dry cough incidence was lower in the SG (1.6% vs 8.3%, P<0.001). The SG required fewer drug adjustments during hospitalization and had a lower 6-month readmission rate (2.4% vs 8.9%, P<0.001). CONCLUSIONS Pharmacogenomic-guided individualized therapy improves blood pressure control, enhances treatment adherence, reduces specific adverse reactions, and decreases rehospitalization. These findings support integrating pharmacogenomic testing into personalized hypertension management.
This study aims to explore the molecular association between di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate (DEHP) and dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) through interpretable machine learning and molecular docking techniques. DCM transcriptome datasets (GSE120895, GSE9800, GSE29819) are integrated. Disease-related genes are screened through differential expression analysis and weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA). Potential targets of DEHP are predicted using CHEMBL, SwissTargetPrediction, and PharmMapper databases. The associated targets of DEHP and DCM are identified via intersection analysis, and a multi-algorithm machine learning framework is used to further screen core genes. Finally, molecular docking is performed to verify the binding affinity between DEHP and core targets. A total of 1364 potential targets of DEHP are identified. Intersection with 61 DCM-related genes yields 11 key targets. Functional enrichment analysis shows that these genes are involved in ion homeostasis, metabolic reprogramming, and regulation of inflammatory pathways. Machine learning further screens eight core genes: ABAT, ACE2, BLM, C3, IGFBP2, KCNIP2, NPPA, and TYMS. Molecular docking confirms that DEHP has strong binding specificity with all eight core proteins.© The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Korean Society of Toxicology 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Background/Objectives: As the most prevalent supraventricular arrhythmia, affecting around 1% of people worldwide, atrial fibrillation (AF) is implicated with a multitude of detrimental clinical sequelae, encompassing congestive failure, thromboembolic cerebral stroke, and premature death. Accumulating epidemiological evidence convincingly demonstrates genetic defects as a cornerstone in the pathogenesis of idiopathic AF. Despite significant genetic underpinnings responsible for AF, owing to substantial genetic heterogeneity, the predisposing genetic substrates for AF in most individuals remain to be ascertained. Methods: A four-generation pedigree suffering from familial AF and a cohort of 238 subjects affected with idiopathic AF, together with 266 healthy people, were enrolled prospectively. Pan-exome sequencing analysis was implemented on the chosen AF pedigree members, and Sanger sequencing assay was performed on all research subjects. The functional effects of the detected HAND2 variations were examined via an in vitro dual-reporter gene measurement. Results: Two novel heterozygous truncating HAND2 variations, NM_021973.3: c.138G>A; p.(Trp46*) and NM_021973.3: c.337C>T; p.(Gln113*), were discovered in the AF pedigree and one of the 238 AF cases, respectively. The two HAND2 variants co-segregated with the AF phenotype and were absent from the 532 control chromosomes of 266 healthy individuals. Quantitative reporter gene assays unveiled that both Trp46*- and Gln113*-mutant HAND2 failed to transcriptionally activate HCN4 and NPPA, two AF-causative genes. Additionally, the two variations nullified the synergistic transcriptional activation of NPPA by HAND2 and GATA4, another recognized gene predisposing to AF. Conclusions: These findings support HAND2 as a strong candidate gene contributing to AF susceptibility, which unravels novel etiopathogenesis underpinning the occurrence and perpetuation of AF and offers a potential molecular target for individualized medicine.
Atrial fibrillation (AF) has complex etiologies. This study aimed to investigate the clinical significance of long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) NPPA-AS1 in AF and the pro-AF mechanism of the NPPA-AS1/miR-302e/transforming growth factor beta receptor 2 (TGFBR2) axis. This study included 120 patients with AF and 120 healthy controls. An in vitro AF model was established by stimulating rat primary cardiac fibroblasts (CFs) with angiotensin II (AngII). RT-qPCR, Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) assay, flow cytometry, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) were utilized to assess gene expression, cellular function, and protein concentration, respectively. Molecular target regulation relationships were validated using RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP) and dual luciferase assays. Target genes predicted by multiple databases were selected for Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analysis to investigate the biological functions and related signaling pathways of the NPPA-AS1/miR-302e axis. NPPA-AS1 was highly expressed in AF patients, serving as an independent risk factor for AF onset while demonstrating excellent diagnostic efficacy for AF. Its expression may be closely associated with cardiac structural remodeling, myocardial injury, and inflammatory responses in AF patients. Mechanistically, NPPA-AS1 was found to act as a molecular sponge to negatively regulate miR-302e, which directly suppressed TGFBR2 expression, forming the NPPA-AS1/miR-302e/TGFBR2 regulatory axis. In vitro, this regulatory axis was associated with Ang II-induced cellular proliferation, apoptosis imbalance, expression of fibrotic molecules, and inflammatory factor secretion (tumor necrosis factor alpha [TNF-α], interleukin 6 [IL-6]), suggesting a potential role in AF-related pathological processes. Specifically, interference with NPPA-AS1 reversed these pathological effects, while inhibition of miR-302e counteracted this reversal. Further interference with TGFBR2 could re-block the pathological process. In vitro findings suggest that NPPA-AS1 may amplify AngⅡ-induced atrial fibrosis and inflammation by releasing TGFBR2 inhibition through "sponge-like" adsorption of miR-302e, indicating a potential contributory role in AF pathogenesis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Efficient energy storage is vital for self-sustaining Martian exploration. Li-CO2 batteries are promising by utilizing the Martian atmosphere (∼95% CO2) as active materials. Fe-S minerals, abundant on Mars, offer a viable candidate for cathode catalysts, yet their structural diversity necessitates a rational selection criterion. Here, we propose crystal void fraction as a governing descriptor correlating with affinity toward critical oxygen-containing species, Li2CO3 and singlet oxygen (1O2). Higher void fraction with decreased Fe-S6 octahedra packing density upshifts the d-band center and brings the z-containing orbitals closer to the Fermi level. Given the pronounced O-2pz character of Li2CO3 band-edge states and the π* orbital of 1O2 frontier orbital, symmetry matching along surface orbitals with z-directional components strengthens orbital coupling, correlating higher crystal void fractions with increased affinity for oxygen-containing species. Crucially, this affinity exhibits a dual role. High void fraction promotes Li2CO3 decomposition but 1O2-induced catalyst degradation, while low void fraction exhibits the opposite tendency. Marcasite with moderate void fraction achieves an optimal balance, achieving 88% energy efficiency and 1000 h cycle life. This work establishes crystal void fraction as a predictive metric for screening suitable catalysts for achieving activity-stability trade-off, and provides a promising landscape for in-situ resource utilization on Mars.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Stroke is a leading cause of severe long-term disability, and foot drop is a common post-stroke gait impairment that may reduce toe clearance, increasing the risk of toe contacts and, in turn, trip-related falls. This case series evaluated the novel combination of transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS), functional electrical stimulation (FES) to the tibialis anterior, and physical therapy training to improve minimum toe clearance (MTC) in individuals with chronic stroke. The rationale for this combined approach was that tDCS may prime the motor cortex and enhance neuroplastic responsiveness, while FES provides task-specific peripheral stimulation to the dorsiflexors during gait-related training, potentially increasing MTC and minimizing toe drag. Four individuals with chronic stroke participated in an 8-week treatment program with sessions twice a week. Assessments were conducted at baseline, 4 weeks, and 8 weeks. Participant 1 started with tDCS alone for 4 weeks, then added FES for the remaining 4 weeks. Participant 2 began with FES for the first 4 weeks, and tDCS was added for the remaining 4 weeks. Participants 3 and 4 received both tDCS and FES throughout the entire 8-week program. Participants 1 (58-year-old female) and 4 (42-year-old male) showed no active ankle dorsiflexion at baseline, while participants 2 (66-year-old male) and 3 (36-year-old male) had a grade of 2 out of 5 for ankle dorsiflexion strength at baseline. Toe clearance and functional outcomes were collected at each assessment. Participants 1 and 4 demonstrated no meaningful change in MTC, whereas participants 2 and 3 both showed modest improvements. Among these responders, MTC increased by an average of 0.63 cm. These findings suggest that combining cortical neuromodulation with localized FES and physical therapy may improve toe clearance in select individuals with chronic stroke. However, because tibialis anterior activation was not directly measured, it remains unclear whether the observed changes were due to improved dorsiflexor activation or other compensatory gait strategies.Copyright 2026 Authors.
Iron-sulfur (Fe-S) clusters are essential cofactors required for the activity of numerous proteins involved in fundamental cellular processes, including DNA replication, metabolism and mitochondrial respiration. In eukaryotes, Fe-S cluster biogenesis is initiated in mitochondria by the ISC machinery, which assembles iron and sulfur, delivered by a cysteine desulfurase, onto the scaffold protein ISCU. Frataxin (FXN), a key regulator of this pathway, enhances Fe-S production by accelerating persulfide transfer to ISCU. FXN is essential in eukaryotes, and its loss results in a "petite" phenotype in yeast, senescence in dividing mammalian cells and embryonic lethality in mice. Interestingly, in yeast, a methionine to isoleucine substitution at position 141 of the scaffold protein Isu1 can bypass the requirement of FXN. To test whether this bypass mechanism is conserved in mammals, we introduced the equivalent M141I substitution into the endogenous Iscu gene in murine fibroblasts carrying a conditional Fxn allele using CRISPR-Cas9. We show that the ISCU M141I variant enables cell survival in the absence of FXN, preventing cell cycle arrest and decreasing baseline DNA damage. However, these FXN-null survivor clones exhibit slower proliferation, persistent mitochondrial dysfunction and defective mitochondrial Fe-S cluster proteins. In contrast, nuclear and cytosolic Fe-S proteins are preserved, as is cellular iron homeostasis. Importantly, the ISCU M141I variant delays, but does not fully rescue, embryonic lethality in Fxn-deficient mice. Altogether, our results reveal a previously unrecognized compartment-specific rescue of Fe-S cluster dependent processes by the ISCU M141I variant in mammalian cells, raising for the first time the possibility of compartmental regulation of Fe-S cluster biogenesis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to ADMC Associazione Differenziamento e Morte Cellulare.
Anaerobic carbon monoxide dehydrogenase (CODH) enzymes interconvert CO2 and CO under mild conditions and with near perfect selectivity. The CODH active site, termed the C-cluster, is a [NiFe3S4]-Feu cluster that can reside in several different oxidation states. Despite decades of research, the electronic structure of the C-cluster remains unresolved, and the metal oxidation states are ambiguous. In this study, we interrogate a series of synthetic clusters with [NiFe3S4]3+/2+/1+ cores in multiple oxidation states as models of the C-cluster cubane core. Each cluster is characterized using crystallography, spectroscopy, magnetism, and computations. The most oxidized cluster, [NiFe3S4]3+, is best described as having Ni2+ and three Fe3+ sites. Remarkably, X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) data show that reduction to the [NiFe3S4]2+ state results in reduction of nickel to Ni1+, even though nearby Fe3+ sites are present. The fully oxidized Fe3+3 subsite can be reduced only after nickel has reached the Ni1+ state. These results demonstrate that Ni1+ is a readily accessible oxidation state in FeS clusters that are topologically relevant to the CODH C-cluster.© 2026 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
Altermagnets are a newly recognized class of magnetic materials characterized by compensated spin configurations while still breaking time-reversal symmetry and exhibiting unconventional transport phenomena. Hexagonal FeS (h-FeS) is a recently identified altermagnet candidate that shows a spontaneous anomalous Hall effect (AHE) accompanied by a tiny net magnetization. Here, we show that both the spontaneous AHE and magnetization can be effectively suppressed by an in-plane compressive strain. Since neutron diffraction measurements show that the applied uniaxial strain only modifies the in-plane domain population but does not affect the in-plane magnetic structure, the major effect of the applied strain is to tune the small c -axis ferromagnetic moment. Our results demonstrate a strong correlation between the tiny net magnetization and the spontaneous AHE in h-FeS, and show that uniaxial strain provides an effective knob to tune both properties in this altermagnet candidate for spintronic applications.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42557827 is a review article
Arsenic (As) speciation in groundwater is controlled not only by aqueous redox chemistry but also by sedimentary matrices that preserve organic matter, structure metabolism, and regulate Fe-S-As coupling. However, how sedimentary organic matter (SOM) and microbial functional differentiation jointly direct arsenic toward thioarsenate formation and methylation remains insufficiently constrained. This study combined sedimentological characterization, X-ray diffraction mineralogical analysis, Fe/As sequential extraction, excitation-emission matrix fluorescence spectroscopy, FT-ICR-MS molecular characterization of SOM, and metagenomic sequencing across three hydrogeochemical zones. Sediments shifted from coarse-grained alluvial deposits in the low-As recharge zone (ALZ) to fine-grained, organic-rich lacustrine sediments in the thioarsenate-enriched zone (HGD) and the methylation zone (SHX), with clay enrichment in HGD and carbonate enrichment in SHX. Along this gradient, ALZ showed open recharge conditions with labile SOM and dynamic redox environments, whereas As in HGD and SHX shifted from surface-bound forms to poorly crystalline and crystalline Fe-associated fractions, alongside SOM evolution toward humified, aromatic, highly unsaturated, and sulfur-containing molecules. The HGD exhibited enrichment of polyphenols and CHOS/CHONS compounds, providing substrates and redox-active ligands for Fe-S-As coupling. Metagenomics revealed zone-specific functional differentiation. The ALZ was dominated by Proteobacteria supporting heterotrophic metabolism, sulfur oxidation, and arsenic resistance. The HGD showed enhanced sat-aprAB-dsrAB pathways and weakened soxABCDXYZ-mediated sulfur oxidation, favoring reduced sulfur accumulation, Fe-As mineral sulfidation, and thioarsenate formation. The SHX displayed enrichment of arsC and arsenic resistance/efflux genes, supporting As(V) reduction and methylated As transformation. These results demonstrate that sediment heterogeneity governs As speciation and migration through coupled SOM evolution and microbial functional reorganization.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The use of a water-electrolysis electrode with ultra-stable activity under industrial conditions is a crucial factor to guarantee the long-term operation of an electrolyzer. However, most highly active electrodes suffer from the dissolution of active sites in harsh operating environments. Herein, we have synthesized a large-scale bimetallic sulfide nanoarray (NiFeS) supported on Ni mesh via a spray coating-calcining method. NiFeS exhibits excellent electrochemical performance, delivering a current density of 100 mA cm-2 at an overpotential of 375 mV without iR correction, outperforming NiS, FeS and NiFeO counterparts. Meanwhile, the NiFeS electrode achieves 500 mA cm-2 at 2.174 V and 90 °C for water electrolysis and maintains a stable cell voltage at 500 mA cm-2 over 1000 h. Further characterization studies, including Raman and ICP tests, reveal that the sulfide species in NiFeS transform into SOx2- oxyanions during the OER process. The SOx2- oxyanions act as an inhibitor to protect the metal active sites from dissolving, which also prevents the cathode from being polluted, ensuring exceptional catalytic ability for long-term operation.
Falls are a major threat to healthy aging, yet older adults' subjective appraisal of their likelihood and consequences of falling may differ from objective physiological risk. Fall-risk perception is broader than fear of falling or activity-specific concern and is relevant because it may inform older adults' willingness to disclose falls, seek help, modify the home environment, and participate in balance or strength training.This study aimed to explore how community-dwelling older adults in China experience and understand fall risk in everyday life and family relationships, with particular attention to filial piety and the desire not to become a burden to adult children.A descriptive phenomenological design was used. Nineteen community-dwelling older adults in Changsha, China, were purposively recruited through maximum variation sampling and stratified by levels of concern about falling assessed using the Falls Efficacy Scale-International (FES-I). The FES-I was used as a sampling aid rather than as an operational measure of the broader phenomenon of fall-risk perception. Semi-structured individual interviews were conducted between March and May 2023. Data were analyzed using Colaizzi's seven-step method. Reporting followed the Consolidated Criteria for Reporting Qualitative Research.Three overarching themes were identified. First, embodied and relational experiences were associated with heightened fall-risk perception, including adverse fall-related events, perceived efficacy of prevention, awareness of physical decline, environmental vigilance, and caregiver monitoring. Second, cognitive, identity-related, and contextual experiences were associated with reduced risk appraisal or constrained prevention, including misconceptions about falls, normalization of "harmless" falls, denial and overconfidence, over-reliance on assistive devices, living circumstances limiting home-safety practices, and limited professional support. Third, filial responsibility appeared in two contrasting forms: the wish not to burden adult children was associated with greater caution, while some participants also concealed minor falls to avoid causing family worry.Participants' accounts suggest that fall-risk perception among community-dwelling older adults in China is experienced not only as an individual appraisal but also within family and cultural relationships. Community nurses should consider integrating objective fall-risk assessment with family-sensitive communication strategies that promote mobility, autonomy, and family well-being while minimizing guilt, stigma, and concealment.Copyright © 2026 Zhu, Zhang, Deng and Xiong.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42551357 is a review article
Kawasaki disease (KD) and viral infection (VD) share similar clinical features but require distinct treatments. A practical biomarker to distinguish them is therefore clinically important. Previous blood transcriptome studies identified many differentially expressed genes, but large gene panels are impractical for routine laboratories. A ratio-based Direct Leukocyte Single-cell-type Transcript Abundance (DIRECT LS-TA) assay was recently developed to quantify monocyte gene expression directly in whole blood using a monocyte-specific target gene relative to monocyte reference genes (PSAP or CTSS). Interferon-stimulated genes IFI27, IFI44L, and SIGLEC1 can be measured by this approach. In this study, three ratio biomarkers (IFI27/PSAP, IFI44L/PSAP, SIGLEC1/PSAP) and a conventional interferon (IFN) score derived from eight genes were calculated from public blood transcriptome datasets (GSE73461 and GSE68004) and compared between KD and VD. VD patients showed markedly elevated IFN-related biomarkers, with all three ratios significantly higher in VD and IFI27/PSAP giving the largest increase. IFI27/PSAP achieved the highest diagnostic performance (AUC 0.90), slightly exceeding the conventional IFN score (AUC 0.89). These findings suggest that absent or minimal IFN activation argues against VD and supports KD, and that this simple ratio assay could serve as a clinically useful exclusion test.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Emergency call handling relies primarily on verbal information, which is often constrained by stress, language barriers, and limited situational awareness. This article describes the conceptual design and real-world implementation of video-assisted emergency calls (VEC) at the Freiburg dispatch center (Public Safety Answering Point, PSAP). Building on longstanding experience with innovative digital dispatch solutions, the Freiburg system integrates real-time video as a dispatcher-controlled, supplementary information channel, next to the voice call, within existing emergency call workflows. The approach is characterized by defined cases, standardized activation procedures, dedicated dispatcher training including psychological safeguards, and a security-focused IT architecture separated from critical dispatch infrastructure. The Freiburg model demonstrates a structured, pragmatic, and scalable pathway for responsibly integrating live video into emergency dispatch operations.© 2026 The Author(s).
Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a complex psychiatric disorder affecting millions of individuals worldwide. Astrocytes, which have been implicated in MDD by several studies, are the most abundant non-neuronal cells in the brain and play critical roles in synaptic regulation, blood-brain barrier maintenance, and immune modulation. While astrocytic molecular and morphological abnormalities are well-established features of MDD, these alterations have not been resolved within their spatial context. Here, we combine spatial transcriptomics with matched snRNA-seq and snATAC-seq datasets to spatially map molecularly distinct astrocyte subtypes and define their regional contributions to MDD pathology. This spatial context further enables the characterization of astrocyte interactions with neighboring cell populations, providing a more holistic assessment of how dysfunctional astrocytes influence local brain microenvironments and circuit function in MDD. We identified spatially localized astrocytic dysfunction in deep cortical layers of the MDD dlPFC, converging across transcriptomic, chromatin, and spatial modalities and centering on the PSAP-GPR37L1 signaling axis. Together, these findings identify astrocyte dysfunction as a key feature of MDD and demonstrate the value of spatially resolved molecular profiling for uncovering how altered astrocyte-neuron communication within deep cortical layers may contribute to disease pathology.
Myopia is one of the most common eye diseases affecting children and adolescents, with its etiology often attributed to a combination of genetic and environmental factors. This study utilized single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) technology to investigate gene expression differences between guinea pigs with spontaneous high myopia (SHM) and those with normal vision.Lens-induced myopia (LIM) and SHM guinea pigs exhibit significant retinal structural abnormalities and functional impairments, characterized by reduced retinal thickness and abnormal electroretinogram (ERG) responses, indicating progressive retinal dysfunction during myopia development. scRNA-seq and molecular experiments revealed that the ceramide synthase 5 (CERS5) / ceramide synthase 6 (CERS6) / alkaline ceramidase 3 (ACER3) / phospholipid phosphatase 1 (PLPP1) / prosaposin (PSAP) / UDP-glucose ceramide glucosyltransferase (UGCG) signaling axis is significantly activated in the retinas of myopic guinea pigs, suggesting dysregulation of sphingolipid metabolism. These changes were associated with an increased expression of SPHK1 and a shift in receptor expression from S1PR1 to S1PR2, indicating a transition in lipid signaling from a physiological state to a stress-related pathological state. Additionally, the activation of the P62/NRF2/KEAP1 pathway confirmed enhanced oxidative stress in the myopic retina. This study demonstrates that the CERS5/CERS6/ACER3/PLPP1/PSAP/UGCG signaling axis mediates disruption of sphingolipid metabolism and oxidative stress in the myopic guinea pig retina.The present study demonstrates that the CERS5/CERS6/ACER3/PLPP1/PSAP/UGCG signaling axis mediates sphingolipid metabolic dysregulation and oxidative stress in the retinas of myopic guinea pigs. Mechanistically, the abnormal activation of the SPHK1-S1P signaling pathway, the shift in receptors from S1PR1 to S1PR2, and the subsequent activation of the P62/KEAP1/NRF2 pathway collectively led to changes in retinal morphology (such as reduced thickness) and functional impairment. These findings establish a mechanistic link between lipid metabolic imbalance and retinal pathology in myopia offering potential therapeutic targets for preventing retinal damage associated with myopia.© 2026. The Author(s).
Subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) is a life-threatening cerebrovascular event frequently accompanied by consciousness disturbances, yet the underlying mechanisms remain poorly defined. Here, we identify oligodendrocytic prosaposin (PSAP) as a critical regulator of thalamocortical connectivity and consciousness following SAH. Using multimodal approaches, including electroencephalogram and electromyogram recordings, optogenetics, single-nucleus RNA sequencing, patch-clamp recording, and magnetic resonance imaging, we demonstrate that SAH disrupts the central lateral thalamus to medial prefrontal cortex pathway via Psap downregulation in oligodendrocytes, leading to impaired PSAP-GPR37 interactions, myelin damage and functional connectivity loss. Psap overexpression or recombinant human PSAP administration restored PSAP-GPR37 interactions, preserved myelin structure and rescued central lateral thalamus to medial prefrontal cortex connectivity after SAH, resulting in improved consciousness and spatial memory. Our findings highlight oligodendrocyte dysfunction as a key mechanism underlying SAH-induced disorders of consciousness and identify PSAP as a potential therapeutic target.© 2026. The Author(s).
To study the potential pathogenic mechanisms of bisphenol A (BPA) in polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) using an integrative computational strategy.Integrative computational study combining network toxicology, Mendelian randomization (MR), and molecular docking.For MR analysis, genetic data were sourced from large European-ancestry cohorts, including plasma protein quantitative trait loci data and genome-wide association study summary statistics for PCOS (3,045 cases and 267,780 controls).In silico exposure to BPA for target prediction; genetically predicted plasma protein levels for causal inference.Identification of overlapping targets between BPA and PCOS; functional enrichment pathways; causal effects of prioritized proteins on PCOS risk (odds ratios with 95% confidence intervals); binding affinities between BPA and core targets (kcal/mol).Network toxicology identified 310 overlapping targets between BPA and PCOS. Enrichment analyses revealed significant involvement in endocrine signaling, inflammatory pathways (eg, IL-17), and cellular processes. MR demonstrated that genetically elevated levels of RET, CXCL8, HTR6, MMP1, MMP9, NTRK1, and TNNI2 were significantly associated with increased PCOS risk, whereas higher PSAP and SHBG levels were protective. Molecular docking confirmed stable binding between BPA and all nine key targets, with strongest affinity for SHBG (-8.4 kcal/mol), followed by NTRK1, TNNI2, and RET.This integrative investigation suggests that BPA may contribute to PCOS pathogenesis through multitarget interactions involving inflammatory mediators, endocrine regulators, and tissue remodeling proteins. The findings provide prioritized targets and mechanistic insights for future experimental validation and environmental risk assessment.Copyright © 2026 American Society for Reproductive Medicine. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Benzo[a]pyrene (BaP), an air pollution-related polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon, may intersect with molecular pathways relevant to atrial fibrillation (AF), but this relationship remains unclear.To examine whether predicted BaP targets overlap with molecular and cellular remodeling features in human AF-related atrial datasets.Five AF microarray datasets and one single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) dataset were analyzed. Differential expression and weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) defined AF-associated key genes directly observed from human AF transcriptomic datasets. BaP predicted targets were computationally obtained using ChEMBL, Similarity Ensemble Approach (SEA), and PharmMapper; their overlap with AF-associated key genes defined inferred BaP-AF candidate targets for Gene Ontology (GO)/Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment. Machine learning (ML) with SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) prioritized hub genes. Cell-type Identification By Estimating Relative Subsets Of RNA Transcripts (CIBERSORT), docking, and single-cell analyses assessed immune patterns, structural plausibility, and cellular context.Eighteen inferred BaP-AF candidate targets were identified by overlapping AF-associated key genes with BaP predicted targets, and these candidates were enriched in oxidative stress/inflammation and transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β)-related remodeling pathways. Elastic Net yielded a final hub-gene signature (PPP3CA, ERBB4, PSAP, LAMP1, PPARA, HSP90AB1, TGFBR1, KCNA5). AF exhibited increased neutrophils and reduced M2 macrophages/T follicular helper (Tfh) cells. Single-cell analyses of AF-related human atrial tissue localized the hub genes to major cell populations and revealed AF-associated immune expansion and fibroblast-centered TGF-β signaling, dominated by TGFB1-(TGFBR1 + TGFBR2), rather than directly measuring BaP-induced single-cell remodeling.scTenifoldKnk-based TGFBR1 virtual knockout highlighted perturbations (ABCA8, CD9, IFI44L, BGN).These findings nominate a testable hypothesis that BaP-related target perturbations may intersect with TGFBR1-associated fibroblast remodeling in AF. Future studies should evaluate this hypothesis in exposure-relevant atrial cell models through controlled BaP exposure and TGFBR1 gain- or loss-of-function experiments, followed by in vivo validation of fibroblast activation and atrial remodeling.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Power batteries used in electric-powered vessels, new-energy tractors or construction machinery typically require prolonged, continuous operation at high power levels, which can lead to significant heat buildup and pose serious threats to battery safety, cycle life, and operational stability. Traditional air-cooled and liquid-cooled systems struggle to meet the requirements for efficient heat dissipation under heavy loads. Phase change materials (PCMs) are ideal for passive battery thermal management due to their high latent heat but are severely limited by low thermal conductivity and liquid leakage. In this study, nitrogen-doped carbon nanotubes@SiO2 (PNT@SiO2) were synthesized and further fabricated into oriented porous aerogels by directional freeze-drying using cellulose-based materials as the skeleton. Polyethylene glycol-8000 (PEG-8000) was loaded via vacuum impregnation to obtain the PSAP composite PCM. The optimized composite exhibits a thermal conductivity of 0.93 W/m·K, 3.2 times that of pure PEG, with 96% PEG loading and a phase change enthalpy of 158 J/g. Battery thermal management tests demonstrate its excellent temperature control and heat suppression performance. This study provides a high-performance and feasible thermal management solution for power batteries used in relevant fields.
Apoptotic cell clearance is essential for maintaining tissue homeostasis and preventing inflammation. While the involvement of certain lysosomal proteins in apoptotic cell clearance has been established, the roles of other lysosome-associated proteins remain unclear. Using genome-wide RNAi screening of lysosomal genes in Caenorhabditis elegans and tissue-specific analysis, we identified 14 lysosome-associated proteins crucial for apoptotic cell clearance, with the SaPosin-like protein SPP-10 being a key factor. The present study demonstrated that spp-10 defects significantly prolonged apoptotic cell persistence. Further investigations revealed that loss of spp-10 causes excessive accumulation of LAAT-1 and NUC-1 on phagolysosomes and sustained phagosomal acidification, which in turn impairs phagosomal degradation. The mammalian homolog of PSAP, whose knockdown reduces efferocytosis in mammalian cells, demonstrates that its function is evolutionarily conserved. Our findings reveal the essential role of spp-10 in apoptotic cell clearance and suggest that targeting lysosomal pathways may be a potential therapeutic strategy for diseases characterized by defective efferocytosis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Strength training plays an essential role in improving performance and lowering injury incidence among adolescent athletes. However, current training practices often involve premature specialization, insufficient load management, and adult-oriented programming. The periodized National Academy of Sports Medicine's Optimum Performance Training (NASM-OPT) model develops stability, strength, and lower-limb power in a progressive manner, but its long-term effects in adolescents remain unclear. This randomized controlled trial compared NASM-OPT with traditional periodized training to examine the effects on maximal lower-limb strength and explosive power among 42 adolescent athletes randomly allocated to the OPT and CON groups (n = 21 per group). A 26-week intervention was completed in both groups. Squat one-repetition maximum (1RM), countermovement jump (CMJ), squat jump (SJ), pre-stretch augmentation percentage (PSAP), and eccentric utilization ratio (EUR) were assessed at baseline and post-intervention. Repeated-measures ANOVA was used to analyze group×time interactions (α = 0.05). Compared with the CON group, the OPT group demonstrated greater post-intervention values in 1RM (133.1 ± 21.4 vs 119.2 ± 18.0 kg), CMJ (47.4 ± 5.8 vs 39.8 ± 4.0 cm), PSAP (10.63% vs 6.07%), and EUR (1.11 vs 1.06) post-intervention (p < 0.05). The OPT group maintained these improvements throughout the intervention, whereas the CON group showed plateaued values, potentially suggesting enhanced stretch-shortening cycle(SSC) function. Periodized NASM-OPT training efficiently promotes lower-limb strength, explosive power, and SSC function in adolescent athletes. These findings indicate that systematic and progressive programming can optimize performance while minimizing injury risk.© Journal of Sports Science and Medicine.
Understanding how adverse life events trigger stress-related behavioural changes remains an unresolved challenge. The amygdala is integral to emotion and stress responses1 and comprises astrocytes, neurons and other cells. Here we show that amygdala astrocytes contribute to stress-related behaviours through signalling mechanisms related to their primary cilia2. Amygdala astrocytes are altered during stress at the protein and gene expression level, display reduced expression of molecules related to primary cilia3,4 and have morphologically short primary cilia5,6. G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are central to astrocyte7 and primary cilia2,8,9 function. Therefore, we speculated that GPCR signalling activation might be beneficial in stress-related behavioural disorders. We identified amygdala astrocyte GPCRs as regulators of responses following stress. Chemogenetics and targeting of native sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 1 (S1PR1) GPCRs led to the restoration of astrocyte primary cilia length, corrected molecular alterations and improved stress-related behaviours. Cilium-related genes were abundantly expressed in human amygdala astrocytes, with many displaying disrupted expression in stress-related brain disorders. S1PR1 was also highly expressed in amygdala astrocytes from human tissue. Selective genetic disruption of amygdala astrocyte primary cilia in mice altered some stress-related behaviours and gene expression of astrocytes and parenchymal cells. These data confirm that astrocytic cilia have important roles in this brain nucleus. In summary, amygdala astrocytes and their primary cilia are disrupted during stress, and their restoration is accompanied by stress-related molecular and behavioural improvements. Astrocyte primary cilia-related mechanisms may therefore provide new treatment strategies for stress-related and other brain disorders.© 2026. The Author(s).
Novel functions of eosinophils are continually being discovered, yet the regulatory mechanisms underlying eosinophil development-particularly how ubiquitous nutrient metabolites integrate with cell-intrinsic transcriptional programs-remain poorly defined. Using zebrafish and mouse models, we demonstrate that ID2 promotes eosinophil maturation by orchestrating retinoic acid (RA) signaling. We show that ID2 interacts with and inhibits TCF3, thereby relieving TCF3-mediated suppression of Rarg expression and ensuring adequate RA signaling to support eosinophil maturation. Our findings reveal the critical role of the ID2-TCF3-RARγ axis in eosinophil development, illustrating a coordinated regulatory mechanism involving RA signaling and ID2 during eosinophilopoiesis. This study elucidates how nutrient-derived signals are finely tuned during eosinophil lineage development, providing insights for RA-related treatments and dietary interventions in homeostasis and eosinophil-associated diseases.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The silver pomfret (Pampus argenteus) represents a commercially vital marine fish species. However, its aquaculture potential, especially in temperate northern regions, is critically constrained by pronounced cold sensitivity. Building upon preliminary investigations which demonstrated a significant inverse correlation between dusp5 expression levels and ambient water temperature, this study aimed to elucidate the functional mechanism of dusp5-a cold-inducible dual-specificity phosphatase affecting the MAPK pathway-in mediating cold stress adaptation. Utilizing cellular models subjected to dusp5 knockdown (KO) and overexpression (OE), we systematically evaluated its impact on cold stress responses. Functional analysis revealed that dusp5 OE conferred significant cytoprotection: it effectively suppressed cold-induced DNA fragmentation indicative of apoptosis (quantified by TUNEL assay), ameliorated mitochondrial dysfunction (assessed via JC-1 staining and TEM ultrastructural examination), and diminished oxidative stress (indicated by reduced malondialdehyde/MDA levels). Subsequent qPCR profiling demonstrated that dusp5 OE modulated the expression of selected genes associated with MAPK signaling cascades, apoptotic pathways, endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress response, and mitochondrial functional integrity under cold duress. Furthermore, employing dual-luciferase reporter assays, we identified atf2, atf4, jund, and stat1 as putative regulators of dusp5 promoter activity. Complementary histidine affinity chromatography facilitated the identification of candidate dusp5-associated proteins predominantly localized to the ER and mitochondrial compartments, with functional annotations implicating roles in ER homeostasis, autophagic processes, and peroxisome metabolism. Collectively, this work provides the preliminary mechanistic insights of dusp5 in promoting cold tolerance within P. argenteus, yielding novel and fundamental insights into the molecular regulators underpinning low-temperature adaptation mechanisms in marine teleosts.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
The α 1A-adrenergic receptor, encoded by ADRA1A, couples to heterotrimeric Gq/11 proteins, promoting intracellular calcium mobilization and PKC activation. In human hepatocytes, it regulates acute metabolic responses and impacts gene expression. Although fundamental hepatic functions of ADRA1A have been described, its role in hepatocellular carcinoma remains elusive. We hypothesized that ADRA1A expressed in liver cancer tissue is part of a signaling repertoire potentially linked to patient outcomes. We analyzed The Cancer Genome Atlas liver cancer datasets and found ADRA1A gene deletion in 6% of patients and more prolonged survival of patients with high ADRA1A expression. Thus, we aimed to identify ADRA1A-signaling partners equally linked to more prolonged patient survival. Through a rational data mining strategy, based on the identification of the signaling repertoire linked to ADRA1A expression and statistical correlation with patient survival, we identified a transcriptional signature integrated by the adrenoceptor and five candidate signaling companions including two RhoGEFs: FGD4 and FARP2, a phospholipid phosphatase: PLPP6, a RabGAP: TBC1D2B, and an RTK adaptor: BAIAP2. Additionally, highly co-expressed GPCRs such as ACKR2, DRD1, ADRA1B, GPR17, S1PR1, and GPR182, and RTKs like KDR and TEK similarly integrated transcriptional signatures with ADRA1A that correlated with more prolonged survival. Most ADRA1A candidate signaling partners were well-co-expressed with hepatocyte markers, suggesting that integrating ADRA1A-associated signaling networks could improve liver cancer patients' prognosis.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s40203-026-00706-4.© The Author(s) 2026.
Oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) exhibits high recurrence rates, and immune escape within the tumor microenvironment is a critical barrier to effective therapy. This study investigates whether cancer-associated fibroblast (CAF)-derived FGF7 promotes immune escape in OSCC through JAK/STAT3 pathway-mediated PD-L1. Tumor and adjacent tissues from OSCC patients were analyzed for FGFF7 expression, and the correlations between FGF7 and clinicopathological features were analyzed. CAFs were isolated from OSCC, transfected with plasmids targeting FGF7, and assessed for activation markers, 3D spheroid formation, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) proteins. Co-culture systems were established to evaluate the malignant behaviors of OSCC cells exposed to modified CAFs through proliferation, migration, invasion, and apoptosis assays. OSCC cells were co-cultured with CD8+ T cells, followed by measurement of JAK/STAT3 phosphorylation, PD-L1 expression, T-cell activation markers, and immune-related genes. In vivo effects were examined in xenograft models. FGF7 was overexpressed in OSCC tissues and cells, primarily originating from CAFs. FGF7 knockdown in CAFs suppressed activation markers, EMT, and malignant behaviors of OSCC cells. Mechanistically, FGF7 knockdown reduced JAK/STAT3 phosphorylation and PD-L1 expression, impairing T-cell cytotoxicity and antigen presentation. A specific STAT3 inhibitor completely reversed FGF7-induced PD-L1 upregulation. ChIP-qPCR confirmed that STAT3 directly binds to the PD-L1 promoter and activates its transcription. In vivo, CAF-specific FGF7 knockdown attenuated tumor growth and collagen deposition while increasing CD8+ T-cell infiltration and apoptosis. Combined FGF7 knockdown and anti-PD-L1 therapy synergistically enhanced these effects. CAF-derived FGF7 drives immune escape and OSCC progression by upregulating PD-L1 via JAK/STAT3 signaling.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Rare and undiagnosed genetic disorders affect millions of patients globally, and many patients endure years of inconclusive testing. Conventional genomic interpretation can be insufficiently sensitive and costly and is rarely repeated as knowledge evolves.We conducted a retrospective multicohort reanalysis using a large language model (LLM)-assisted workflow that ingests clinician notes, Human Phenotype Ontology (HPO) terms, and a filtered variant table to propose explanation-rich candidate hypotheses for expert adjudication under American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics and Association for Molecular Pathology criteria. A diagnosis was defined a priori as a variant classified as pathogenic or likely pathogenic, confirmed in a Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments-certified laboratory, and returned to families. Secondary outputs included "rediscoveries" of externally established diagnoses not yet available locally and hypothesis generation signals.Across four cohorts, new local diagnoses were made in 10 of 100 rare disease neurodevelopmental cases (10.0%, [exact binomial: 95% confidence interval (CI), 4.9 to 17.6]), 4 of 61 neuromuscular cases (6.6%, [CI, 1.8 to 16.0]), 2 of 200 cases of sudden unexpected death in pediatrics (1.0% [CI, 0.1 to 3.6]), and 2 of 15 early psychosis cases (13.3% [CI, 1.7 to 40.5]) for an overall diagnostic yield of 18 of 376 (4.8%, [CI, 2.9 to 7.5]). We identified seven rediscoveries in which pathogenic or likely pathogenic findings had been established externally but were not available in the local research record at the time of review. In one case, the model's synthesis of genotype-quality patterns and phenotype concordance triaged a putative 22q11.2 deletion that was subsequently confirmed by whole-genome sequencing. The workflow also generated testable biological hypotheses, including a candidate association between the sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 1 gene (S1PR1) and vitiligo.In retrospective reanalysis, an explanation-first LLM applied to routine HPO terms and variant tables produced clinically relevant gains in diagnostic yield, surfaced overlooked pathogenic findings, and generated biologically grounded hypotheses. These results motivate prospective multicenter evaluation with predefined end points, calibration reporting, and comparator baselines. (Funded by the U.S. National Institute of Child Health and Human Development and others.).
The diagnosis of major depressive disorder (MDD) currently relies on subjective clinical assessments, highlighting a critical need for objective biological markers. The sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) signaling pathway, a pivotal regulator of neuro-immune interactions, has emerged as a potential contributor to MDD pathophysiology, yet its role remains incompletely understood. This study aimed to investigate plasma levels of S1P and its key receptors, S1PR1 and S1PR3, as potential diagnostic and predictive biomarkers for MDD, with a specific focus on sex differences and treatment effects.Patients with MDD (n = 56) underwent an 8-week treatment protocol were enrolled, alongside 42 healthy controls (HCs). Depression severity was evaluated using the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAMD-24) and Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9) at baseline and 8-week visit. The plasma levels of S1P, S1PR1 and S1PR3 were measured at baseline and week 8.At baseline, plasma concentrations of S1P, S1PR1, and S1PR3 were significantly elevated in patients with MDD compared to HCs. All three markers significantly decreased and trended toward normal levels after 8 weeks of antidepressant treatment. Notably, a significant sex-specific difference was observed for the receptors, baseline elevations of S1PR1 and S1PR3 were more obvious in female patients than in male patients. Furthermore, baseline S1P levels significantly predicted symptom improvement-as measured by changes in both HAMD-24 and PHQ-9 scores-whereas baseline S1PR levels alone did not. In addition, a combined panel of S1P, S1PR1, and S1PR3 yielded high diagnostic accuracy, with an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) of 0.9575.Our data demonstrate a significant, sex-dependent dysregulation of the peripheral S1P signaling pathway in MDD, which is responsive to antidepressant treatment. The ability of baseline S1P to predict clinical outcomes and the encouraging diagnostic precision of the S1P-S1PR1-S1PR3 panel strongly support their potential as clinically applicable biomarkers. These results imply that the S1P pathway plays a crucial role in the pathophysiology of depression, offering new possibilities for diagnosis and personalized treatment strategies in psychiatry.© 2026. The Author(s).
Type-I interferons (IFN-I) and IFN-stimulated genes (ISGs) are central to antiviral defense, while dysregulation can drive autoimmunity. IFNB1 expression is controlled by a highly ordered multiprotein complex composed of IRF3/7, NFκB, and ATF2/c-Jun (AP-1) that recruit coactivators and chromatin-remodeling proteins to expose the IFNB1 promoter for the RNA polymerase II (RNA Pol II) transcriptional machinery. Here, we identified the paraspeckle protein non-POU domain-containing octamer-binding protein (NONO) as a critical facilitator of innate immune activation. Loss of NONO enhanced replication of multiple orthoflaviviruses including West Nile virus due to impaired induction of IFN-I and ISGs. NONO did not affect upstream signaling but instead promoted chromatin accessibility and promoter access for RNA Pol II to drive expression of IFNB1, ISGs, and proinflammatory cytokines. These findings position NONO as a key regulator of antiviral gene expression and reveal chromatin-levels of control that determine effective antiviral immunity.
Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is a chronic vascular disorder characterized by progressive aortic dilation and extracellular matrix remodeling, for which effective pharmacological therapies remain limited. Fibroblast growth factor 7 (FGF7), a paracrine growth factor involved in tissue repair and remodeling, has not been fully investigated in AAA. Transcriptomic analyses of GSE239620 and GSE57691 revealed dysregulated FGF7 expression in aneurysmal tissues, with predominant localization in fibroblasts. In an Ang II-induced AAA model in Apoe⁻/⁻ mice, AAV-mediated FGF7 overexpression showed a trend toward improved survival, reduced AAA incidence, limited maximal aortic dilation, and attenuated collagen deposition and inflammatory cytokine production in vivo. In vitro, Ang II stimulation increased FGF7 expression in NIH/3T3 fibroblasts. Recombinant FGF7 suppressed Ang II-induced upregulation of Collagen I, α-SMA, MMP-2, and MMP-9. Mechanistically, Ang II activated PI3K/AKT signaling, whereas FGF7 further enhanced PI3K and AKT phosphorylation. Pharmacological inhibition of PI3K partially abolished the regulatory effects of FGF7 on fibroblast remodeling and inflammatory activation. Collectively, FGF7 mitigates AAA progression through modulation of fibroblast-mediated extracellular matrix remodeling and PI3K/AKT signaling, highlighting its potential as a therapeutic target for AAA.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Upper tract urothelial carcinoma (UTUC) is an aggressive malignancy with limited molecular characterization in advanced disease. FGFR3 alterations are well established in low-grade urothelial carcinoma, but their prevalence, stability, and biological significance in locally advanced and metastatic UTUC remain only partially defined. We performed an integrated morphologic, immunohistochemical, and molecular analysis of 24 locally advanced and/or metastatic UTUC from 20 patients. FGFR3 status was assessed by RT-PCR across multiple tumor compartments, including biopsies, primary tumors, lymph-node metastases, and distant metastatic sites. Immunohistochemistry included CK20, CK5, GATA3, p53, and mismatch repair proteins. Targeted next-generation sequencing (NGS) was used to characterize co-occurring genomic alterations and to assess concordance with p53 immunophenotype. FGFR3 alterations were identified in 50% of patients and in 54.2% of analyzed tumors. FGFR3 status showed high intra-patient stability, with concordance between primary tumors and distant metastases in 90% of cases, whereas concordance with lymph node metastases was lower (50%), suggesting site-specific clonal divergence. Despite advanced stage, 92.3% of FGFR3-altered tumors displayed papillary urothelial carcinoma morphology, and most showed a luminal immunophenotype (61.5% by CK20/CK5 and 69.2% by GATA3/CK5). Targeted NGS revealed additional pathogenic alterations in 75% of patients, most frequently involving RTK/RAS/MAPK signaling (70%), cell-cycle regulation (25%), and PI3K/AKT pathway components (10%). TP53 mutations co-occurred with FGFR3 alterations in 60% of FGFR3-mutated patients and showed 90.4% concordance with p53 immunohistochemistry. Finally, a few cases exhibited complex, multi-site FGFR3 mutational patterns, consistent with intratumoral clonal evolutions. In conclusion, FGFR3 alterations are frequent and remarkably stable in advanced UTUC, even in high-grade and metastatic disease. These findings support the reliability of FGFR3 testing on limited diagnostic material and reinforce its relevance for therapeutic stratification. UTUC emerges as a molecularly dynamic disease in which early oncogenic drivers such as FGFR3 continue to shape tumor biology and therapeutic vulnerability at advanced stages.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier GmbH.
To assess neurodevelopmental and neurological features, including neuroimaging abnormalities, in children with molecularly confirmed hypochondroplasia.A retrospective cohort study of children with molecularly confirmed hypochondroplasia seen at Evelina London Children's Hospital skeletal dysplasia service was performed. Data collected included referral characteristics, neuroimaging findings, special educational needs, and diagnosed neurodevelopmental disorders. Statistical comparisons with UK population prevalence were performed using χ2 testing for educational outcomes and exact binomial testing for neurodevelopmental disorders, with Bonferroni-adjusted p-values reported for multiple comparisons.Forty-four children (24 females and 20 males; median age 9 years 10 months [interquartile range 6 years 7 months-15 years 7 months]) with molecularly confirmed hypochondroplasia were included. Twenty-five had received brain imaging with hippocampal malrotation (HIMAL) identified in 23 (92%). Among school-aged children, 71% required special educational support and 29% had formal education, health, and care plans (EHCPs), statistically higher than both UK population prevalence and previously reported hypochondroplasia prevalence. Formally diagnosed neurodevelopment disorders affected 20.5% of the cohort. Specific learning disorders remained significantly more common than UK population prevalence estimates after Bonferroni correction, with higher observed autism and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder rates also identified.Hypochondroplasia is associated with a substantial burden of neurodevelopmental and neurological abnormalities, including a high prevalence of HIMAL, which exceeds previous estimates. These findings support the need for clinical guidelines, developmental surveillance, and further research into fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 (FGFR3)-related brain development.© 2026 The Author(s). Developmental Medicine & Child Neurology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Mac Keith Press.
Dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) is a leading cause of heart failure with notable sex differences in susceptibility and progression. Although sarcomere mutations such as cardiac actin ACTC1 p.T126I contribute to familial DCM, the in vivo effects and sex-specific consequences remain unclear. We generated a zebrafish model carrying the orthologous Acta1b p.T126I mutation and conducted longitudinal, sex-stratified analyses of cardiac function, morphology and gene expression. Mutants showed variable onset of cardiac dysfunction, with progressive DCM, pericardial effusion, ventricular dilation, and reduced survival in adults. Female mutants exhibited earlier and sustained diastolic dysfunction, greater cardiac remodeling and significantly lower survival compared to males, revealing pronounced sexual dimorphism. Molecular profiling at a pre-symptomatic stage identified upregulation of nppb, downregulation of hypertrophic transcription factors (gata4, mef2ca), and sex-specific alterations in calcium handling genes (serca2, pln1, slc8a1a) and proteostasis regulators (hsf1, bag3). Older stages demonstrated a variable shift of individuals' gene expression to cardiac remodeling and decompensation. These findings demonstrate that the Acta1b p.T126I mutation drives progressive, sex-specific DCM in zebrafish, highlighting biological sex as a critical modifier of sarcomeric cardiomyopathy progression and targeted therapy development.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42557383 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42552286 is a review article
Approximately 8% of the US population speaks primary languages other than English. Limited English proficiency (LEP) contributes to under-representation of Hispanic patients in oncology clinical trials. Although certified translation services exist, they are time-consuming and costly. Artificial intelligence (AI)-generated translations of informed consent forms (ICFs) could provide low-cost alternatives, but data on accuracy and safety remain limited. We evaluated language equivalence of English-to-Spanish translations for three oncology clinical trial ICFs using two general-purpose AI translation tools (DeepL Pro and ChatGPT-4o) and a medically trained AI translation tool (Med_English2Spanish) compared with certified translations.Translational equivalence was assessed using a five-point Likert scale on five domains: Semantic, Idiomatic, Experiential, Conceptual, and Safety. Two native Spanish-speaking bilingual board-certified physicians independently scored each translation. Weighted Cohen's kappa determined inter-rater reliability, and the two-sample t-test compared AI-generated and certified translations.Weighted Cohen's kappa (0.95, 95% CI 0.85 to 0.97) exhibited high inter-rater agreement. Certified translations exhibited the highest equivalence (mean = 4.99, SD = 0.02). ChatGPT-4o similarly demonstrated high equivalence (mean = 4.89, SD = 0.17). DeepL Pro scored well (mean = 4.43, SD = 0.07) but lower than certified translation (P < 0.001). Med_English2Spanish demonstrated the lowest degree of equivalence (mean = 3.32, SD = 0.40) compared with certified translations (P < 0.001).Low-cost AI translations of ICFs exhibited variable language equivalence compared with certified translations across several domains. ChatGPT-4o scored nearly equivalent across domains in translating procedural trial information. While AI-generated translations are currently not suitable for clinical deployment without human review, this exploratory study supports further analysis of AI translation tools for reducing language barriers to LEP population enrollment.
CXCL13+ T cells and LAMP3+ dendritic cells (DCs) are pivotal players in orchestrating anti-tumor immune responses, particularly within tumor tertiary lymphoid structures (TLS). However, their heterogeneity, differentiation trajectories, and clinical relevance in bladder cancer remain incompletely defined. This study integrated single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data (16 bladder cancer patients, 113,905 post-quality-control cells) and spatial transcriptomics to characterize CXCL13+ T cell/LAMP3+ DC subsets, their differentiation pathways (via Velocyto trajectory analysis), and intercellular crosstalk (via receptor-ligand mapping). A risk model (DTscore) was constructed using marker genes of these cells and validated in the IMvigor210 (atezolizumab-treated bladder cancer) and TCGA-BLCA cohorts. scRNA-seq clustering identified 10 immune and 3 nonimmune cell types, with T cells stratified into 8 subpopulations (including CD4+CXCL13+ T cells and CD8+CXCL13+ T cells) and DCs into 9 subgroups (including LAMP3+ DCs). Receptor-ligand mapping and spatial transcriptomics confirmed functional crosstalk between CXCL13+ T cells and LAMP3+ DCs via key pairs (e.g., CCR7-CCL19, CXCR5-CXCL13, PDCD1-CD274) within TLS. The DTscore was developed using 8 marker genes (TSHZ2, ALOX5AP, GADD45G, TXN, CHN1, CCL19, CXCL13, ICA1) and exhibited robust prognostic and predictive performance: In the IMvigor210 cohort, high DTscore correlated with significantly poorer overall survival (OS) and a 3.27-fold lower immunotherapy response rate (11% vs. 36%, p = 4.23e-07); multivariate Cox regression confirmed DTscore as an independent OS predictor (hazard ratio = 1.97, p < 0.001). DTscore retained prognostic value in TCGA-BLCA (OS: p = 0.003; disease-specific survival: p < 0.001) and effectively predicted atezolizumab response even in the "immune desert" phenotype (p = 0.04). Combining DTscore with tumor mutational burden/tumor neoantigen burden yielded an AUC of 0.8122 for response prediction. Additionally, high DTscore was associated with higher OS hazard ratios in patients with wild-type TTN, RB1, EP300, or FGFR3 (all p < 0.01), while FGFR3 mutations correlated with lower immune checkpoint/CXCL13 expression. This study delineates the heterogeneity and interactions of CXCL13+ T cell/LAMP3+ DC subsets in bladder cancer TLS and validates DTscore as a robust tool for predicting OS and immunotherapy response, offering a potential guide for personalized bladder cancer treatment.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
More than 95% of trauma patients survive their initial injury, and up to 50% experience persistent physical and psychosocial challenges that extend well beyond hospital discharge. Socially vulnerable patients, including those with limited social support, limited English proficiency (LEP), substance use disorders (SUD), and exposure to interpersonal violence, face these challenges disproportionately. While trauma collaborative care models (Trauma CCM) may address these gaps, how such models are experienced by providers and patients during the early implementation remains poorly understood.To examine stakeholders' experiences during the early implementation phase of what is, to our knowledge, the first trauma collaborative care model in New England designed specifically for socially vulnerable trauma survivors.We conducted a qualitative study informed by the Consolidated Framework for Implementation Research (CFIR) of the early implementation of the Transforming Recovery After Injury for the Long-term (TRAIL) Clinic at a single Level I trauma center. Semi-structured interviews were conducted with 23 stakeholders, including 15 patients, 6 clinic staff members, and 2 community partners.We identified four interrelated themes: (1) Patients reported feeling seen and heard; (2) Engagement was facilitated through provider adaptation to patient needs; (3) Patients expressed a need for sustained, trauma-informed mental health support extending beyond short-term clinic engagement; and (4) Logistical and emotional challenges were identified during early implementation of the Trauma CCM.Trauma CCM reframes post-injury recovery by addressing needs beyond surgical care. Experiences from stakeholders during early implementation emphasized flexible engagement strategies, integrated longitudinal trauma-informed mental health services, and institutional support for the trauma care workforce.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) are key regulators of tumor progression within the gastric cancer microenvironment. Chloride Intracellular Channel-2 (CLIC-2), a member of the CLIC protein family, has been implicated in tumor biology. However, its role in CAFs remains unclear. In this study, we found that CLIC-2 expression was significantly reduced in gastric CAFs and that low CLIC-2 levels were associated with poor patient prognosis. Loss-of-function experiments demonstrated that CLIC-2 deficiency promoted CAF-like activation of non-cancer fibroblasts (NFs), whereas CLIC-2 overexpression attenuated the activated phenotype of CAFs. Conditioned medium from CLIC-2-knockdown fibroblasts enhanced the viability, migratory, and invasion of gastric cancer cells, while conditioned medium from CLIC-2-overexpressing CAFs suppressed these malignant phenotypes. In vivo, co-injection of MKN-45 cells with CLIC-2-deficient fibroblasts promoted tumor growth and liver metastasis, whereas CLIC-2 overexpression in CAFs exerted tumor-suppressive effects. Proteomic analysis of CAF-derived exosomes identified Solute Carrier Family 35 Member B2 (SLC35B2) as a candidate downstream component associated with CLIC-2-regulated exosomal alterations. Exosomes derived from CLIC-2-overexpressing CAFs exhibited reduced SLC35B2 levels and inhibited malignant behaviors in gastric cancer cells. Mechanistically, SLC35B2 promoted YAP1 activation, as evidenced by enhanced nuclear accumulation of YAP1 and upregulation of its target genes CYR61 and CTGF. YAP1 silencing attenuated SLC35B2-induced malignant phenotypes, while SLC35B2 overexpression partially reversed the tumor-suppressive effects mediated by CLIC-2-overexpressing CAF-derived exosomes. Collectively, these findings suggest that CLIC-2 suppresses CAF-driven gastric cancer progression, at least partly through SLC35B2-associated regulation of YAP1 signaling, highlighting a potential stromal regulatory mechanism in gastric cancer.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Claudin 18.2 (CLDN18.2), a tight junction protein normally expressed in gastric epithelium and rendered accessible during malignant transformation, has emerged as a key therapeutic target. Here, we seek to characterize the immune microenvironment of CLDN18.2-expressing gastric cancer and identify immune features associated with CLDN18.2 expression status.Tumor immune features were profiled in 103 patients with HER2-neg/low advanced GC treated with first-line immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) using multiplex immunohistochemistry (7,423,483 cells across 2,315 regions of interest [ROIs]). Findings were validated in five published whole-transcriptome sequencing/microarray cohorts (1,521 samples), including the CheckMate 649 phase 3 trial. Spatial architecture was assessed by cellular neighborhood analysis. Digital spatial profiling (DSP) was performed on 480 ROIs from a CLDN18.2-annotated tissue microarray (75 patients).CLDN18.2high tumors showed reproducible enrichment of humoral pathways, with higher CD20+ B-cell density and enrichment of B-cell/plasma-cell signatures. CLDN18.2 status alone was not associated with survival on first-line ICI therapy; in CLDN18.2low tumors, B-cell enrichment was associated with ICI benefit, unlike CLDN18.2high tumors. Spatial analyses indicated that CLDN18.2high tumors preferentially harbored tumor-infiltrating B-cells, rather than tertiary lymphoid structure/lymphoid aggregate-like neighborhoods, and this tumor-compartment localization was associated with diminished ICI benefit. DSP confirmed that CD20+ B-cell enrichment was most pronounced within tumor regions, alongside compartment-specific activation of humoral and extra-follicular response programs and interferon-associated and remodeling signatures.CLDN18.2high GC exhibits a humoral-enriched microenvironment with increased tumor-infiltrating B-cells and spatial immune organization associated with reduced ICI benefit. Spatial and humoral-state biomarkers may inform ongoing CLDN18.2-directed combination trials.
To investigate the effects and mechanisms of Shi Pi Shu Gan formula (SPSGF) on sequelae of pelvic inflammatory disease (SPID) in rats with liver stagnation and spleen deficiency.A SPID rat model was established using mixed bacterial infection, mechanical injury, and compound stress (restraint, fatigue, diet disorder). Rats were divided into control, model, SPSGF-low (9.9 g/kg), SPSGF-high (36.9 g/kg), positive control, mitophagy inhibitor (Mdivi-1), SPSGF, and SPSGF+Mdivi-1 groups (n=6 each) for a 2-week treatment. Behavior, uterine histopathology (HE, TUNEL, immunohistochemistry), inflammatory cytokines (ELISA), mitophagy (TEM), and cGAS, STING, p-CREB, and p-YAP1 proteins (Western blot) were assessed.SPSGF treatment reduced inflammatory lesions and apoptosis in uterine tissue, decreased mtDNA levels and cGAS/STING expression, and increased p-CREB and p-YAP1 expression compared with the model group.This study's findings illuminate a novel link between mitochondrial quality control and tissue repair in SPID. Notwithstanding its limitations, including the model's translational capacity and the formula's complexity, this work lays the groundwork for developing SPSGF as a promising multi-targeted therapeutic strategy, aligning with TCM principles for managing chronic inflammatory sequelae.SPSGF may inhibit the inflammatory response in SPID rats by activating mitophagy to inhibit excessive activation of the cGAS/STING pathway and by activating the downstream PKACREB- Yap1 signaling pathway by interfering with the mtDNA-cGAS-STING network, thereby alleviating the symptoms of SPID.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Ellis-van Creveld (EVC) syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive skeletal dysplasia characterized by disproportionate short stature, skeletal abnormalities, craniofacial and dental anomalies, and a high prevalence of congenital cardiovascular disease. Pregnancy in patients with EVC syndrome presents unique anesthetic challenges due to altered airway anatomy, abnormal spinal anatomy affecting neuraxial techniques, restrictive pulmonary physiology, potential cardiac dysfunction, and resultant hemodynamic complications. Evidence guiding anesthetic management for this population remains limited. We present the case of a 23-year-old pregnant patient with a heterozygous EVC2 gene variant, who presented for repeat cesarean section. After comprehensive pre-anesthetic evaluation, neuraxial anesthesia with spinal blockade was selected to avoid airway manipulation and minimize hemodynamic stress. Adequate surgical anesthesia was achieved with hyperbaric bupivacaine, and the patient remained hemodynamically stable throughout the intraoperative and postoperative periods without complications. This case highlights the importance of individualized anesthetic planning in patients with rare skeletal dysplasia undergoing cesarean section. Careful assessment of airway, spine, and cardiac function allows safe use of neuraxial anesthesia and may reduce perioperative morbidity to ensure best operative outcomes.Copyright 2026 Authors.
Yes-associated protein 1 (YAP1) dysregulation is frequently observed in various human cancers. This study aimed to identify microRNAs (miRNAs) capable of suppressing YAP1 expression and to elucidate their functional roles in tumor progression.We screened five candidate miRNAs using a luciferase reporter assay containing the YAP1 3' untranslated region (3' UTR). Functional validation was performed using gain- and loss-of-function experiments in HCT116 and A549 cell lines. The in vivo effects of miR-195 were evaluated using a xenograft model.Among the tested miRNAs, miR-195 demonstrated the most potent suppression of YAP1 3' UTR activity. This interaction was direct and specific, as a mutation in the YAP1 3' UTR seed sequence abolished miR-195-mediated repression. Consequently, miR-195 overexpression significantly reduced endogenous YAP1 protein levels and suppressed the expression of its downstream target, CTGF. Functionally, miR-195 overexpression inhibited cell viability and reduced colony formation by approximately 40% in HCT116 cells, while miR-195 knockdown promoted proliferation. Rescue experiments confirmed that the anti-proliferative effects of miR-195 were dependent on YAP1 suppression. In vivo, stable overexpression of miR-195 significantly attenuated tumor growth in xenograft models. Furthermore, analysis of clinical data revealed that downregulation of miR-195 is prevalent in multiple tumor types and correlates with poor patient survival.Our findings establish miR-195 as a critical tumor suppressor that directly targets YAP1, highlighting its potential as a therapeutic target in cancer treatment.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Song, Tang, He and Cai.
The aging of mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) is characterized by impaired osteogenic differentiation and enhanced adipogenic differentiation. Studies have identified stanniocalcin‑1 (STC1) as a core component of the senescence‑associated secretory phenotype and a regulator of osteoblast maturation; however, its role in MSC biology remains poorly understood. In the present study, bone marrow‑derived MSCs were used and in vitro functional assays together with molecular and omics‑based analyses were performed to investigate the role of STC1. It was observed that STC1 expression was upregulated in aged MSCs and during both osteogenic and adipogenic differentiation. Small interfering RNA‑mediated depletion of STC1 reduced cellular senescence and notably impaired osteogenic differentiation, whereas adipogenic and chondrogenic differentiation were not significantly affected. RNA sequencing revealed that STC1 knockdown led to the downregulation of osteogenesis‑related genes and the concomitant upregulation of inflammatory factors. Genes associated with closing differentially accessible regions (DARs) were enriched in osteogenic pathways, whereas those associated with opening DARs were predominantly involved in inflammatory responses. Mechanistically, STC1 knockdown led to the activation of NF‑κB signaling. Pharmacological inhibition assays using NF‑κB inhibitors were performed to validate pathway involvement. Pharmacological inhibition of NF‑κB signaling significantly mitigated the impairment in osteogenic differentiation and attenuated the inflammatory response induced by STC1 depletion. Collectively, these findings suggest that STC1 is involved in the regulation of osteogenic differentiation and inflammatory signaling through the modulation of NF‑κB activity in MSCs. Furthermore, targeting STC1 while inhibiting NF‑κB signaling may represent a promising therapeutic strategy for alleviating MSC dysfunction and age‑related bone loss.
Specific to normal gastric epithelium, Claudin 18.2 (CLDN18.2) is a tight junction protein. CLDN18.2 immunohistochemistry is a companion diagnostic used to identify oesophageal and gastric adenocarcinoma patients eligible for targeted therapy with zolbetuximab. It has demonstrated survival benefits in advanced upper gastrointestinal (UGI) cancers, with many studies now exploring its potential use beyond the UGI tract. This study aimed to examine CLDN18.2 expression in a peritoneal malignancy patient cohort.CLDN18.2 immunohistochemistry was performed on archived tissue from patients who underwent cytoreductive surgery at a national centre for peritoneal malignancy. CLDN18.2 immunoprofiles were compared in two key tumour cohorts: peritoneal metastases from colorectal adenocarcinoma and appendiceal mucinous neoplasms. Positivity was defined as moderate-to-strong membranous staining in >75% of tumour cells. In addition, any CLDN18.2 positivity in tumour cells (>0% of cells showing moderate-to-strong membranous staining) was recorded in all cases.64 cases were examined; primary tumour sites of origin were colorectal (n=34, 53%) and appendiceal (n=30, 47%). CLDN18.2 positivity in the overall appendiceal group was 17% compared with 3% in colorectal adenocarcinomas (p=0.090). In the appendiceal group, CLDN18.2 positivity was only demonstrated in high-grade appendiceal mucinous carcinomas (22%, 5 of 23). CLDN18.2 positive staining (>0% of tumour cells) was significantly increased in the appendiceal group compared with colorectal adenocarcinoma (53% vs 3%, respectively) (p<0.0001).These results demonstrate CLDN18.2 expression in a subset of appendiceal peritoneal metastases. This is one of the first focused studies showing CLDN18.2 expression in this tumour group, perhaps highlighting a future role for targeted therapies in those with limited curative oncological options.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2), mismatch repair (MMR) proteins, claudin-18 isoform 2 (CLDN18.2), and the programmed cell death ligand-1 combined positive score (PD-L1 CPS) are predictive biomarkers for the efficacy of combination chemotherapy in patients with locally advanced unresectable or metastatic gastric or gastroesophageal junction cancer. However, only a small proportion of these patients are positive for at least two of these predictive biomarkers.We present a rare case of HER2-positive, CLDN18.2-positive, MMR-deficient gastric cancer. A 72-year-old man was initially diagnosed with clinical stage IVB gastric cancer (cT4aN0, M1 PUL). Immunohistochemical analysis of endoscopic biopsy specimens revealed HER2-negative, CLDN18.2-negative, and MMR-proficient gastric cancer. He underwent surgery to remove the hemorrhagic gastric cancer before chemotherapy, and immunohistochemical analysis of surgical specimens revealed HER2-positive, CLDN18.2-positive, and MMR-deficient gastric cancer. Moreover, a transbronchial lung biopsy after surgery showed that one of the bilateral multiple lung nodules was lung adenocarcinoma, and he was ultimately diagnosed with pathological stage IIB gastric cancer and clinical stage IVB lung cancer. He died of lung cancer without any signs of gastric cancer recurrence during 17 months of follow-up.HER2-positive, CLDN18.2-positive, MMR-deficient gastric cancer is extremely rare. Adequate endoscopic biopsy sampling from different areas of a tumor is essential for accurate predictive biomarker assessment in patients with gastric or gastroesophageal junction cancer because of intratumoral heterogeneity.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42552030
Pelvic organ prolapse (POP) is a prevalent condition characterized by weakened pelvic floor tissues, significantly impacting women's quality of life. Current treatments, including synthetic meshes and native tissue repair, face challenges of high recurrence rates and complications. This study developed a novel tissue-engineered strategy utilizing a decellularized human amniotic membrane (HAAM) scaffold seeded with autologous adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cells (ADSCs) and vaginal wall fibroblasts (HVFs) to construct a bioactive pelvic ligament equivalent. We first validated the successful preparation of HAAM with preserved extracellular matrix integrity and characterized the phenotypic markers of ADSCs and HVFs. In a rat abdominal wall defect model, the HAAM+ADSCs+HVFs composite demonstrated superior tissue regeneration and integration, reduced fibrosis, and effective modulation of the host immune microenvironment -evidenced by enhanced repair and decreased infiltration of pro-inflammatory cells -compared to all control groups (including HAAM alone and single-cell groups). Transcriptomic analysis revealed that the composite treatment promoted extracellular matrix organization and collagen synthesis while suppressing matrix degradation (MMP2/MMP9) and inflammatory pathways. Most importantly, mechanistic studies identified TGFB2 as the key paracrine mediator through which ADSCs exert their effects: TGFB2 inhibition abolished ADSCs-induced improvements in HVFs proliferation, migration, and anti-apoptosis, while its overexpression replicated these benefits. Western blot confirmed that TGFB2 coordinately upregulates COL1A1/COL3A1 and downregulates MMP2/MMP9 to restore ECM homeostasis. These comprehensive findings demonstrate that the HAAM-based ADSCs-HVFs composite promotes functional tissue regeneration via TGFB2-mediated mechanisms, offering a safe, effective, and regenerative therapeutic strategy with strong translational potential for POP.Copyright © 2026 Dong, Zhang, Duan and Xia.
Septic shock is characterized by severe circulatory failure, microvascular dysfunction, and metabolic derangement. Methylene blue (MB) and vitamin B12 (VB12) have each shown potential benefit in vasodilatory shock, but the biological effects of their combined use remain unclear.A rat model of LPS-induced septic shock was used to evaluate the effects of combined MB and VB12 pretreatment. Transcriptomic analysis of carotid artery tissue was performed to identify treatment-responsive genes and pathways. Expression of KCNMB1, PRKG1, and PRKG2 was assessed by immunohistochemistry, western blotting, and RT-qPCR. Hemodynamic parameters, circulating injury markers, inflammatory cytokines, oxidative stress indices, and histological changes in major organs were also evaluated.Combined MB and VB12 treatment was associated with lower expression of KCNMB1, PRKG1, and PRKG2 and reduced cGMP levels compared with the model group. The combined treatment also partially improved hemodynamic abnormalities, reduced NO, H2S, and lactate levels, and attenuated inflammatory and oxidative stress responses. Histological injury in the lung, liver, kidney, and carotid artery was also alleviated.In this experimental model, combined MB and VB12 pretreatment attenuated multiple features of septic shock and was accompanied by modulation of KCNMB1 and cGMP-PRKG pathway-related markers. These findings support a potential protective role of the combined regimen, although the causal mechanistic relationship requires further investigation.Copyright: © 2026 Shan et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
In multiple sclerosis several alterations in transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) signaling in immune cells have been observed, however, little is known about gene expression of TGF-β receptor subunits. Dimethyl fumarate is a disease modifying drug that is still used to treat relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis. Although its inhibitory effect on TGF-β signaling associated with SMAD proteins has been observed, its effect on the expression of TGF-β receptors is unknown. Expression of genes for TGF-β receptor subunits - TGFBR1, TGFBR2, as well as the co-receptor - TGFBR3 has been examined in blood from patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis, untreated and treated with dimethyl fumarate, as well as in healthy controls, using droplet digital PCR. TGF-β1 concentrations were determined in sera, using ELISA. Untreated patients had significantly lower TGFBR3 gene expression in blood than healthy controls (p<0.0001) and significantly lower serum concentration of TGF-β1 (p=0.0268), than healthy controls. Patients treated with dimethyl fumarate had significantly lower TGFBR2 and TGFBR1 gene expression (p=0.0054 and 0.0225 respectively) and significantly higher TGF-β1 (p=0.0113) serum concentrations than untreated patients. The percentage of T cells in blood of untreated relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) patients was significantly higher than in healthy controls (p=0.0054), but in dimethyl fumarate-treated patients was not significantly different from the values in the other groups. Downregulation of the TGFBR3 gene and lower TGF-β1 serum concentration in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis can indicate a defective regulatory immune response. Downregulation of TGFBR1 and TGFBR2 genes could be one of the mechanisms for dimethyl fumarate-induced inhibition of TGF-β signaling.Copyright© 2025 Polish Physiological Society.
Neovascularization of the posterior eye is a progressive disease state, marked by an inflammatory initiation, angiogenic growth, and subsequent fibrotic degeneration of endothelial cells (ECs). Although implicated in age-related macular degeneration and proliferative diabetic retinopathy as a leading cause of irreversible vision loss worldwide, the mechanisms underpinning retinal EC dysregulation in neovascularization and fibrosis are not well understood. This study presents a transcriptomic investigation of cultured primary human microvascular retinal EC dysregulation following exposure to 10 ng/mL of six retinal neovascularization-associated signaling molecules [IL-6, tumor necrosis factor-α, transforming growth factor (TGF)-β1, TGF-β2, thrombin, and vascular endothelial growth factor-A] both individually and as a combined treatment for 24 hours. Tumor necrosis factor-α, thrombin, and TGF-β2 alone induced significant enhancement of inflammatory and angiofibrotic pathways, including phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt, NF-κB, and SMAD. BGN, CD34, COL1A2, CXCL8, IGFBP5, INHBA, SERPINE1, SNAI1, TGFB2, and TNFSF11 were identified as having overlapping, nodal roles in the pathologic dysfunction of retinal ECs. Cotreatment with all six ligands significantly enhanced differential gene expression, revealing 889 unique differentially expressed genes. Using a novel network-based gene correlation engine, GeneBunny, the cocktail group was found to mimic published retinal and choroidal EC transcriptomes from tissue of patients with age-related macular degeneration more accurately than individual treatment groups. These findings provide a biologically relevant characterization of the pathologic mechanisms driven by key retinal neovascularization-associated signaling molecules in retinal, enabling the identification of novel anti-fibrotic therapeutic targets.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Residual pulmonary vascular obstruction (RPVO) defined as the persistence of thrombotic material within the pulmonary arteries several months after an acute pulmonary embolism (PE) is associated with an increased risk of severe complications, including recurrent events and chronic pulmonary hypertension. However, the genomic architecture underlying RPVO in unprovoked PE remains poorly understood, and this study aims to address this gap.By leveraging genetic and imaging RPVO data from three independent cohorts totaling 586 unprovoked PE patients, we conducted a meta-analysis of genome wide association study (GWAS) of RPVO using a dedicated statistical method to handle the semi-continuous distribution of RPVO. The meta-GWAS was complemented by haplotype association analyses and transcriptome wide association studies as well as Mendelian Randomization (MR) approaches based on plasma metabolites and proteins.Through meta-GWAS, we identified one locus, OSTN, associated with RPVO (lead variant rs59109356 associated with a ~2-fold increase of RPVO, p=3.92x10-8). A second locus, CCN4, previously reported to associate with pulmonary fibrosis, was also identified, with evidence of association approaching genome-wide significance (p=6.7x10-8). We also identified a common haplotype spanning over AHSG/HRG/KNG1 associated with a ~3-fold increase of RPVO (p=2.96x10-8). Using plasma protein-based MR, we demonstrated that one unit increase in genetically determined plasma levels of IL-1 R AcP encoding IL1RAP was associated with a 28% (p=1.32x10-6) reduction in RPVO. We also observed statistical evidence that the CCN4 (p=0.06) and IL1RAP (p=0.02) loci associate with the risk of PE recurrence in a sample of 1,617 unprovoked PE patients.By identifying novel molecular determinants of RPVO that map to loci involved in inflammatory pathways and vascular remodeling, our study provides evidence that inflammation is the predominant, and likely the key mechanism underlying RPVO, whereas impaired fibrinolysis appears to play a more limited role.
Identification of signaling networks is an essential goal in systems biology. Here, we use CRISPR/Cas9 knockout screening (employing a whole kinome sgRNA library) to identify functionally critical protein kinases in a well-studied G α s-dependent G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR)-signaling model, namely the vasopressin V2 receptor (V2R) pathway. Screening was done using a specially-designed fluorescence-based reporter cell line with green-fluorescent protein (GFP) co-transcribed with Aqp2 , a gene whose transcription is dependent on vasopressin-mediated activation of protein kinase A (PKA). Positive regulators (n=14) included PKA-catalytic subunit α (Prkaca) and Dyrk1a ( minibrain homolog). Negative regulators (n=12) included PKA-regulatory subunit type Iα, Stk11 (catalytic subunit of liver kinase B1 [LKB1] complex), and three TGF-β receptor subunits (Tgfbr1, Tgfbr2, Tgfbr3) (see https://esbl.nhlbi.nih.gov/Databases/Kinome-CRISPR-screen/ for full list). Dyrk1a knockout cell lines failed to express AQP2 protein and exhibited a profound decrease in AQP2 mRNA. RNA-sequencing demonstrated widespread increases in cell-cycle transcripts, with a general defect in cell differentiation, accounting for AQP2 loss. TGF-β exposure to un-transformed cells results in a profound decrease in V2R and AQP2 mRNA abundance along with multiple additional transcriptional targets of V2R-PKA signaling, consistent with prior findings in TGF-β-mediated vasopressin 'escape'. Stk11/LKB1 knockout lines displayed marked increases in AQP2 protein and mRNA, even in the absence of vasopressin. RNA-sequencing showed a marked similarity between the responses to Stk11/LKB1 deletion and vasopressin exposure in untransformed cells. Phospho-proteomic data point to opposing roles of Stk11/LKB1 and PKA in the regulation of cAMP-responsive transcriptional coactivator (CRTC) proteins in the transcriptional response to V2R-PKA signaling.Cells throughout the body are regulated by extracellular signals like the hormone, vasopressin. Hormonal effects on cellular function are mediated by membrane receptors that trigger biochemical changes, often by inducing chemical modification of the amino acids making up individual proteins, such as addition of function-altering phosphate groups (phosphorylation). Protein phosphorylation is mediated by enzymes known as "protein kinases". Here, we have screened all known protein kinases using modern CRISPR/Cas9 technology to identify those involved in vasopressin action in the kidney. As expected from prior knowledge, the screen identified protein kinase A and one of its regulatory subunits, but also identified several protein kinases not previously implicated in vasopressin action in the kidney.
Oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy is a principal treatment for colon cancer, but drug resistance hinders its efficacy. Cancer cell dormancy is reportedly a crucial driver of chemoresistance. IL-24 functions vitally in tumor chemoresistance, yet its role in colon cancer dormancy and oxaliplatin resistance remains unexplored.IL-24 expression was assessed in colon cancer tissues and cells via RT-qPCR, western blotting, or immunohistochemistry. The functions of IL-24 in colon cancer cell proliferation, apoptosis, dormancy, and oxaliplatin resistance were evaluated by CCK-8, flow cytometry, and western blotting. The downstream mechanism of IL-24 was predicted using RNA sequencing and bioinformatics analyses and verified in vitro. A tumor xenograft mouse model was built to further verify the role of IL-24 in colon cancer. IL-24 was overexpressed in oxaliplatin-resistant colon cancer tissues and cells. Furthermore, IL-24 treatment reversed the anti-proliferative and pro-apoptotic effects of oxaliplatin on colon cancer cells. Regarding cell dormancy, IL-24 treatment triggered G0/G1 cell cycle arrest and upregulated dormancy markers (CDKN1A, CDKN1B, TGFB2, and MSK1). Bioinformatics analyses revealed that IL-24 might function in colon cancer mainly through NF-κB pathway, and IL-24 activated the NF-κB axis in tumor cells. Importantly, treatment with NF-κB inhibitor reversed IL-24-induced colon cancer cell dormancy and oxaliplatin resistance. In vivo, IL-24 treatment abolished the anti-tumor effects of oxaliplatin, promoted cell dormancy, and activated NF-κB signaling in tumor tissues. IL-24 induces colon cancer cell dormancy and oxaliplatin resistance by activating NF-κB signaling. The IL-24/NF-κB axis may serve as a likely target to alleviate oxaliplatin resistance in colon cancer.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) is the most common endocrine malignancy. Although generally indolent, a subset shows aggressive behaviour. Furthermore, the genetic heterogeneity of PTC is not fully explained by known driver mutations, underscoring the need to identify additional susceptibility genes and regulatory mechanisms. To identify additional susceptibility genes and regulatory mechanisms, we integrated transcriptome-wide association studies (TWAS) with summary-data-based Mendelian randomisation (SMR), joint/conditional testing (JCT), and colocalisation analyses across multiple independent cohorts, followed by heterogeneity in dependent instruments (HEIDI) test. Gene prioritisation analyses consistently highlighted TGFB2 and SMAD3 as candidate susceptibility genes for PTC, with SMR supporting putative protective effects. Besides, GEPIA confirmed the positive correlation between TGFB2 and SMAD3 expression in TCGA-THCA. Functional experiments in TPC-1 cells showed that TGFβ2 treatment inhibited cell proliferation and migration, induced apoptosis, and resulted in G0/G1 cell-cycle arrest, accompanied by increased SMAD3 phosphorylation, suggesting activation of canonical TGFβ signalling. Collectively, these findings bridge population-based genetic inference with mechanistic validation and suggest convergent evidence supporting a tumour-suppressive role of the TGFβ2/SMAD3 axis in PTC.© the author(s).
Background/Objectives: TGFB2 is the dominant TGF-β isoform in glioma, and isolated experimental studies have implicated it in immunosuppressive signaling; however, its prognostic value and systematic association with the tumor immune microenvironment across the diffuse glioma spectrum have not been comprehensively characterized in large clinical cohorts. Methods: A multi-cohort transcriptomic study was conducted using TCGA (n = 667) as discovery and CGGA (n = 404) as validation, integrating survival analysis, functional enrichment, immune deconvolution by ssGSEA and MCP-counter, immune checkpoint correlation, and TISCH2-based single-cell localization. Results: TGFB2 was consistently overexpressed in glioma relative to normal brain at both mRNA and protein levels, with expression highest in GBM (median 10.60 vs. 8.45 in LGG; p < 2.2 × 10-16) and increasing across WHO grade. High TGFB2 predicted worse overall survival in both cohorts (TCGA: 648 vs. 2907 days; CGGA: 863 vs. 3107 days; both p < 0.0001), with 3-year AUCs of 0.823 and 0.714, and retained independent prognostic significance in the CGGA multivariate model (HR = 1.343; p = 3.2 × 10-4). Hallmark GSEA identified consistent enrichment of interferon signaling, epithelial-mesenchymal transition, TNFα/NF-κB, and IL-6/JAK/STAT3 pathways. ssGSEA and MCP-counter concordantly demonstrated significantly expanded myeloid, monocytic, and stromal populations across both cohorts. TGFB2 correlated positively with PD-L1, TIM-3, ICOS (ρ = 0.449), IL2RA (ρ = 0.397), CTLA4 (ρ = 0.375), and TIGIT (ρ = 0.170) in TCGA, with all associations replicated in CGGA. Conclusions: TGFB2 is an adverse prognostic biomarker in diffuse glioma coupled to a myeloid-enriched, multi-checkpoint-activated tumor microenvironment, supporting its evaluation as a stratification biomarker in TGF-β/checkpoint combination immunotherapy trials.
Colorectal cancer is the second leading cause of cancer death in the United States, yet ∼25% of patients undergoing colonoscopy have suboptimal bowel preparation. Bowel preparation is cited as the leading deterrent to an elective colonoscopy.This randomized, controlled, single-blinded noninferiority trial assessed the efficacy, safety, and patient tolerability of oral sulfate tablets (OST) compared with polyethylene glycol (PEG) based bowel preparation formulations, with explicit consideration of patient satisfaction and adverse events. Between March and August 2024, adult outpatients at Albany Medical Center requiring routine colonoscopies were consented and enrolled. Endoscopists were blinded to preparation assignments and graded the cleansing of the colon based on the US FDA Bowel Prep Scoring Scale. Patients completed a preparation satisfaction questionnaire.This study assessed 177 patients (n=94 OST/n=83 PEG). Overall cleansing scores favored OST with 67.0% "excellent" preparations versus 57.8% for PEG. Although differences were not statistically significant in segmental analyses, trends favored OST. Generally, bowel preparation cleansing scores for the proximal, mid, and distal colon were numerically better for OST. Polyp identification was higher for OST (60.6%) versus PEG (54.2%). Tolerability favored OST, with 18.1% of patients in the OST group reporting adverse events (AE) versus 65.1% of patients in the PEG group. The most common AE for both groups was nausea. OST was "tolerable" to "very easy" to consume in 88.3% of patients compared with 78.6% for patients in the PEG group. OST was again requested by 92.6% of patients, compared with 60.7% of patients in the PEG group.This real-world study demonstrates the noninferior efficacy and safety of OST compared with conventional PEG-based formulations while highlighting improved patient tolerability, palatability, and potential preference bias due to free-of-charge provision.Copyright © 2025 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.
Extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling is a central driver of breast cancer progression, invasion, and metastatic dissemination. Heat shock protein 47 (HSP47), encoded by SERPINH1, is a collagen-specific molecular chaperone essential for proper collagen folding and secretion, but its clinical and biological relevance in human breast cancer remains incompletely defined.We applied an integrated multi-omics approach combining RNA sequencing, quantitative proteomics, immunohistochemistry, and spatial single-cell transcriptomics to analyze SERPINH1 expression in 21 human breast carcinomas. Internal cohort and public datasets were investigated to assess expression patterns, pathway associations, and clinical relevance across breast cancer patients.SERPINH1 expression strongly correlated with key ECM-remodeling genes, including COL1A1, CTGF, and DDR2, and showed robust concordance with HSP47 protein abundance. High SERPINH1 levels were tightly linked to epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) programs, including ZEB1-, MMP2-, and TGF-β-driven signaling, while displaying minimal association with immune-checkpoint pathways or immune-cell infiltration. Spatial and single-cell analyses revealed enrichment of SERPINH1 in cancer-associated fibroblasts and malignant epithelial cells. Clinically, SERPINH1 expression increased from normal breast tissue to primary tumours and metastatic lesions, was highest in advanced-stage disease, and predicted reduced overall survival, particularly in luminal B breast cancer. Notably, high SERPINH1 expression was associated with improved pathological response to chemotherapy.These findings identify SERPINH1 as a marker of ECM-driven tumour aggressiveness and stromal reprogramming in breast cancer. By linking collagen homeostasis, EMT, and TGF-β signaling to adverse clinical outcomes, the SERPINH1-HSP47 axis emerges as a promising prognostic biomarker and a tractable therapeutic target in breast cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
Recent advancements in single-cell transcriptomic analyses have greatly expanded our understanding of cellular diversity in adipose tissue, indicating transcriptionally distinct subpopulations of adipocytes. Here we sought to rigorously test such heterogeneity at the protein level.A data-driven imaging platform was tailored to assess cellular protein levels based on immunofluorescence staining in primary adipocytes isolated from human adipose tissue biopsies (abdominal and gluteal adipose tissue from n = four subjects). Isolated adipocytes were co-labeled for GLUT4 and the previously proposed adipocyte subtype markers PLIN1 and DDR2 to assess their relative expression levels.The platform enabled a two-step gating, shape-based filtering approach, which allowed accurate identification of mature adipocytes of a large cell-size range. The software was able to accurately detect hundreds of adipocytes spanning a broad size range. When comparing cells isolated from a single adipose tissue depot and subject, we found that a large proportion of cells had relatively high levels of both DDR2 and PLIN1. No notable differences in GLUT4 levels were observed within this group of cells.The described approach, based on population-wide imaging, could serve as a robust tool to further validate cellular characteristics at a single-cell level. The fact that we detected distinct protein levels of the proposed adipocyte markers may reflect the presence of mature adipocyte subtypes.© 2026. The Author(s).
Distant metastasis, predominantly to the liver, remains the leading cause of death in colorectal cancer (CRC), yet biomarkers that capture metastatic competence remain limited. Ferroptosis is an iron-dependent, lipid peroxidation-driven form of regulated cell death that can restrain tumor progression, but whether primary CRC from patients with liver metastasis shows ferroptosis-resistance-related features remains incompletely understood. In a small exploratory set of T-stage-matched primary CRC tumors with or without liver metastasis, we quantified glutathione redox and lipid peroxidation-related readouts and assessed SLC7A11 and GPX4 expression. We integrated GSE62321 transcriptomic profiles with a FerrDb ferroptosis gene set, evaluated prognosis in TCGA-COAD/READ, and performed genetic knockdown, MDA assays, C11-BODIPY lipid ROS staining, ferrostatin-1 rescue assays, and Transwell assays in CRC cell models. Primary tumors from patients with liver metastasis showed a more reduced redox profile and increased expression of core ferroptosis-suppressive proteins, consistent with enhanced ferroptosis resistance potential but not direct evidence of lower in vivo ferroptotic cell death. Integrative discovery highlighted fatty acid binding protein 4 (FABP4), α-synuclein (SNCA), and discoidin domain receptor 2 (DDR2) as CRC-LM-associated ferroptosis-related candidates. High expression of each gene was associated with unfavorable disease-free survival. In CRC cell models, including the lymph-node-metastasis-derived SW620 line and additional validation lines, silencing FABP4, SNCA, or DDR2 increased bulk MDA and/or C11-BODIPY-detected lipid ROS, altered ferroptosis susceptibility, and suppressed migratory and/or invasive phenotypes. Ferrostatin-1 partially rescued knockdown-induced viability loss, lipid ROS accumulation, and migratory/invasive defects, supporting involvement of ferroptosis-associated lipid peroxidation while not excluding broader stress-response mechanisms. FABP4, SNCA, and DDR2 are CRC-LM-associated ferroptosis-related candidates that modulate lipid peroxidation, ferroptosis susceptibility, and migratory/invasive phenotypes in CRC cell models, warranting further validation in viability-controlled and liver metastasis-specific models.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Owing to its involvement in extracellular matrix-glial cell interactions, discoidin domain receptor 2 (DDR2) has emerged as a promising pharmacological target in various human diseases, including cancers and neurodegenerative disorders. Two allosteric inhibitors, WRG-28 and DDR2-IN-1, selectively target DDR2. Their therapeutic efficacy is likely to depend on blood-brain barrier (BBB) penetration; however, a lack of analytical methods has so far left their pharmacokinetic properties and BBB permeability profiles largely unexplored. In this study, a liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry method was developed and validated for the simultaneous quantification of WRG-28 and DDR2-IN-1 in plasma and brain tissue. The extraction procedure was simple and based on protein precipitation followed by lipid removal. This analytical method met the acceptance criteria of the European Medicines Agency guidelines. The calibration range was linear from 1 to 1000 ng/mL for both compounds. In addition, five prediction software tools were used to estimate pharmacokinetic parameters relevant to the BBB penetration of the two compounds. Finally, the method was applied in preclinical pharmacokinetic studies using elacridar, an efflux transporter inhibitor.© 2026. The Author(s).
Precise measurements of small molecule-protein interactions are critical for drug discovery. However, most biochemical profiling platforms measure binding using recombinant kinase domains or proteins in cell lysates, which can miss conformational regulation present in intact living cells. Here, we used flow cytometry-based fluorescent probe cellular binding assays (FPCBA) to demonstrate that the anticancer drug dasatinib binds native, untagged ABL1 kinase with 3-6-fold higher affinity than NanoLuc- or mVenus-tagged constructs in living cells. We further used this method for in-cell profiling of 25 native kinases, revealing conformational regulatory mechanisms, including SRC autoinhibition and membrane-dependent conformational states of DDR1, DDR2, and EPHA4 that are absent or attenuated in biochemical assays. For these studies, coumarin-dasatinib probes spanning a range of fluorophore acidity (pKa 4.1-7.3) were optimized for intracellular target engagement. To enhance sensitivity of detection, we found that uptake of acidic probes can be promoted by expression of the organic anion transporter OATP1B3. Quantitative flow cytometry with NIST-standardized beads established that intracellular concentrations of an intermediate-acidity 6FC-dasatinib probe approximated extracellular concentrations in HEK293T cells at equilibrium. Cellular Ki values of dasatinib and imatinib for 25 kinases by FPCBA were broadly concordant with kinobead LC/MS measurements in cancer cell lysates but diverged substantially from recombinant KINOMEscan values, with divergences attributable to competition with ATP, autoinhibition, and membrane-dependent conformational states in living cells. FPCBA enables profiling of native protein-small molecule interactions in a physiologically relevant cellular context.
Orofacial clefting (OFC) is among the most common birth defects and can occur either as part of a syndrome or in isolation (nonsyndromic, ns). Cleft palate only (CPO) is an OFC subtype. Here, we searched for novel nsCPO risk genes carrying homozygous and compound-heterozygous variants, by analyzing exome data from six sibling pairs with nsCPO born to unaffected parents. After stringent quality control and filtering, we identified 6 homozygous variants and 32 compound-heterozygous variants in 5 and 16 candidate genes, respectively. We prioritized DDR2, a collagen-activated receptor-tyrosine-kinase influencing extracellular matrix composition, as our top candidate for functional follow-up, since variants in this gene can cause Warburg-Cinotti syndrome, the phenotypic spectrum of which includes palatal abnormalities. Knock-down and knock-out of DDR2-orthologs in zebrafish caused craniofacial abnormalities resembling CPO in humans. Zebrafish immunostaining indicated that DDR2-orthologs were expressed in mature head muscle cells, while murine single-cell RNA-Sequencing data detected Ddr2 expression only in head muscle progenitor cells; the latter finding was confirmed in human embryo sections stained for DDR2. DDR2-expressing head muscle progenitor cells may influence extracellular matrix composition through DDR2-mediated signaling, thereby affecting outgrowth, elevation, and fusion of the palatal shelves, a previously postulated mechanism involved in palatogenesis. Most established OFC genes (e.g. CDH1, CTNND1, IRF6, and GRHL3) act via mechanisms related to epithelial integrity and periderm differentiation, whereas our data provide evidence supporting DDR2 as a risk gene for nsOFC that functions by influencing extracellular matrix composition.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Cardiac calcification is an age-associated pathological process that contributes to cardiac dysfunction, arrhythmia, and sudden cardiac death, yet its underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Cardiac fibroblasts (CFs) have emerged as key mediators of ectopic calcification through osteogenic differentiation. Proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9), a key regulator of cholesterol metabolism, has been implicated in cardiovascular pathology beyond its canonical role, but its involvement in cardiac calcification is unknown. In this study, aged mice exhibited cardiac dysfunction, interstitial fibrosis, and myocardial calcium deposition, accompanied by upregulation of osteogenic markers, including Runx2, OCN, and Osx. PCSK9 expression was increased in aged hearts and enriched in DDR2-positive cells. In vitro, senescent CFs displayed enhanced osteogenic differentiation, characterized by increased calcium deposition, alkaline phosphatase activity, and elevated expression of osteogenic markers. Recombinant PCSK9 promoted osteogenic differentiation in young CFs, whereas genetic deletion of PCSK9 attenuated these effects in senescent CFs. Pharmacological experiments suggest that PCSK9-mediated osteogenic differentiation is associated with activation of the ATF4 pathway and upregulation of Runx2 expression. These findings support a role for the PCSK9-ATF4-Runx2 signaling axis in osteogenic differentiation of CFs, providing new insights into age‑related cardiac calcification and identifying this pathway as a hypothesis‑generating candidate for future investigation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Human induced pluripotent stem cell (hiPSC) technologies offer human-relevant cardiac models for biomedical applications. However, workflows for differentiation of cardiac stromal cells and fabrication of engineered heart tissue (EHT) commonly rely on animal serum, contrary to growing policy demands to reduce use of these products. Applying marker analysis via COL-I, DDR2 and GATA4 for cardiac fibroblasts or CD31, CD34 and CD144 for endothelial cells, we tailored Panexin, a defined serum substitute, to support high efficiency differentiation of cardiac stromal lineages to 85% purity without additional purification steps. We evaluated fabrication of EHTs using hiPSC-cardiomyocytes only (monoculture) or further combined with cardiac fibroblasts and endothelial cells (triculture; 70%:15%:15%, respectively). Panexin poorly supported fabrication and contractility of EHTs, a finding unaltered by modulating spontaneous cardiac myofibroblast activation via TGFβ inhibition. In contrast, human serum enabled fabrication of mono- and tri-culture EHTs, wherein constructs made without TGFβ signalling inhibition delivered the strongest contractile forces and exceeded comparator tissues engineered using animal serum. Our data show that iterative evaluation of serum substitutes, human serum, cell combinations and signalling pathway modulators can mitigate use of animal serum for functional EHT generation, aligning with the UK government's roadmap for alternative methods.© 2026. The Author(s).
Extracellular matrix (ECM) stiffening is a biophysical hallmark of solid tumors. Cutaneous melanoma is an aggressive malignancy characterized by high heterogeneity and phenotypic plasticity in which melanoma cells switch from a proliferative and differentiated phenotype to an invasive, dedifferentiated and therapy-resistant state. However, the impact of ECM stiffness on the diverse cellular phenotypes of melanoma remains poorly defined. Here, we show that melanoma cell subpopulations differ in their responses to mechanical signals. Compared to melanocytic/transitory cells, dedifferentiated cells exhibited heightened sensitivity to stiff collagen matrices, characterized by increased cell spreading, focal adhesion maturation, YAP nuclear translocation and contractility. ECM stiffening enhanced proliferation, migration and invasion in dedifferentiated cells, whereas highly proliferative and poorly migratory melanocytic/transitory cells were less affected by collagen stiffness. Importantly, a soft ECM sensitized dedifferentiated cells, but not melanocytic/transitory cells, to BRAF/MEK inhibition. Mechanistically, the mechanosensitivity of dedifferentiated cells relies on collagen receptors DDR1 and DDR2, which control cytoskeleton reorganization and YAP mechanosignaling. Genetic or pharmacological inhibition of DDR, actomyosin contractility, or YAP suppressed stiffness-induced proliferation and migration, reduced traction forces, and restored sensitivity to targeted therapy in dedifferentiated cells. Conversely, ectopic DDR1/DDR2 expression confers mechanosensitive properties to melanocytic cells. Our results thus reveal that phenotypic plasticity endows dedifferentiated melanoma cells with increased addiction to mechanical cues and implicate DDR1/2-YAP-dependent signaling in this aggressive behavior.© 2026. The Author(s).
Collagen receptors orchestrate vital extracellular matrix signaling, yet the inability to distinguish functional receptor activation from mere expression in real-time has obscured our understanding of fibrotic progression. Here, we develop a fluorescent triple-helical collagen-mimetic peptide (CMP) probe, [GVMGFO]3, designed to selectively target the ligand-engaging conformation of Discoidin Domain Receptor 2 (DDR2)─the sole receptor tyrosine kinase family that signals collagen. In pulmonary fibrosis, this probe identifies active fibrotic niches in vivo and directly tethers to disease-driving activated fibroblasts to enable precise ex vivo mapping, all without perturbing baseline signaling. Utilizing this tool, we decipher the long-standing mystery of DDR2's characteristically slow, hours-long activation kinetics. We reveal that while monomeric collagen engagement fails to override constitutive DDR2 internalization, supramolecular fibrillar collagen provides a multivalent physical anchor that arrests DDR2 trafficking at the cell-matrix interface to sustain receptor clustering and phosphorylation. To recapitulate this biophysical requirement, we engineered Zn2+-coordinated supramolecular assemblies of a histidine-modified CMP, [H-GVMGFO-H]3, triggering rapid DDR2 activation within minutes. Our work transforms CMPs from structural models of collagen into programmable chemical tools for dissecting the spatiotemporal dynamics of collagen-receptor interplay, offering a platform for imaging and modulating fibrotic disease.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42552209
Based on previous reports demonstrating the clinical potential of miR-1911-3p in breast cancer, its function and mechanisms in the development of TNBC were investigated, aiming to identify a novel biomarker.Paired tissues were sampled from 128 TNBC patients, and miR-1911-3p levels were compared between tumor and normal tissues. The clinical significance of miR-1911-3p was evaluated from the perspective of disease severity and patients' prognosis. In vitro, the regulatory effects of miR-1911-3p on the malignant biological behaviors were assessed based on cell growth, motility, and glycolytic activity in MDA-MB-231 and HCC1806 cells. The mechanism evaluation was performed focusing on FBLN5 through luciferase reporter assay and related reversal experiments by co-regulating miR-1911-3p and FBLN5.Significant upregulation of miR-1911-3p was observed in tumor tissues of TNBC patients (fold change of 1.35), which was associated with advanced TNM stage, higher Ki67 levels, and occurrence of lymph node metastasis. miR-1911-3p (HR = 3.036) was identified as an independent prognostic factor predicting 5-year recurrence-free survival (log‑rank P = 0.036) of TNBC patients. Consistent elevation of miR-1911-3p was also observed in TNBC cells, and its knockdown dramatically suppressed cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. Glycolytic activity was revealed to mediate the regulation of cell biological functions. FBLN5 was identified as a downstream target of miR-1911-3p, and negative regulation of its expression by miR-1911-3p was observed. Silencing FBLN5 could reverse the tumor‑suppressive effect of miR-1911-3p on TNBC cells, which was considered the major molecular mechanism.miR-1911-3p was identified as an independent prognostic biomarker for TNBC. Different from previously reporter miRNAs, miR-1911-3p regulated glycolytic activity-dependent cell growth and motility by targeting FBLN5, indicating its potential in serving as therapeutic target for TNBC.© 2026 Kong et al.
Late-onset preeclampsia (LO-PE) is the most prevalent clinical phenotype of preeclampsia and, although traditionally considered less strongly associated with placental dysfunction than early-onset disease, increasing evidence supports the presence of relevant placental alterations. The extracellular matrix (ECM) is a key regulator of villous architecture, tissue mechanics, trophoblast behavior, vascular remodeling, and angiogenesis. This study aimed to characterize ECM remodeling in placentas from women with LO-PE.A prospective observational study was conducted in 111 pregnant women, including 68 with LO-PE and 43 healthy controls. Placental samples were collected immediately after delivery. Gene expression of elastogenesis-related markers, cross-linking enzymes, fibrillar collagens, matrix-remodeling regulators, and endothelial-matrix signaling molecules was assessed by RT-qPCR. Protein expression was evaluated by immunohistochemistry. Differences between groups were analyzed using non-parametric tests with Benjamini-Hochberg correction, and correlations among ECM markers were explored using Spearman analysis.LO-PE placentas showed significantly increased expression of tropoelastin (TE), fibulin-4 (FBLN-4), fibulin-5 (FBLN-5), fibrillin-1 (FBN-1), lysyl oxidase (LOX), lysyl oxidase-like 1 (LOXL-1), collagen type I (COL-I), collagen type III (COL-III), and matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2) at both gene and protein levels. Conversely, gene and protein expression of tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-2 (TIMP-2) and epidermal growth factor-like domain 7 (EGFL7) showed a marked decrease in the placentas of pregnant women with LO-PE. These findings indicate enhanced elastogenesis, increased matrix cross-linking, greater fibrillar collagen deposition, and an imbalance in matrix turnover. Correlation analysis further suggested that, although the FBLN-4/FBLN-5 axis remained preserved, LO-PE placentas displayed partial disruption of the broader ECM transcriptional network.LO-PE placentas exhibit a coordinated but dysregulated ECM remodeling phenotype involving elastic, collagenous, proteolytic, and endothelial-matrix regulatory pathways. These alterations support ECM remodeling as a relevant biological feature of LO-PE placental pathophysiology.
IntroductionDysregulation of apoptosis is a hallmark of follicular lymphoma (FL), yet the causal genetic drivers remain incompletely understood. This study aimed to identify causal apoptosis-related genes in FL and validate their functional roles.MethodsWe conducted a multi-omics Mendelian randomization (MR) study, integrating summary statistics from a large-scale FL genome-wide association study with data on methylation (mQTL), expression (eQTL), and protein (pQTL) quantitative trait loci. Summary data-based MR (SMR) and colocalization analyses were used to identify candidate causal genes. Independent external transcriptomic cohorts were utilized to validate the gene correlations, and evaluate the clinical prognostic relevance of the identified candidates. Key findings were then validated in FL patient tissues using RT-qPCR, and the functional role and downstream molecular mechanisms of the top candidate gene were systematically characterized through in vitro phenotypic characterization, drug sensitivity testing, and mechanistic signaling analyses.ResultsOur MR analysis identified several genes with causal links to FL risk, with integrative analysis highlighting IER3IP1, PRKCZ, and CD40. Notably, PRKCZ and CD40 exhibited significant correlation, whereas IER3IP1 displayed an independent regulatory pattern. Clinical tissue validation confirmed that IER3IP1 mRNA levels were significantly elevated in FL patient tissues. Functional studies in an FL cell line demonstrated that IER3IP1 acts as an oncogene, promoting proliferation, colony formation, and migration while inhibiting apoptosis. Mechanistically, IER3IP1 depletion promoted FOXO1-mediated transcriptional upregulation of CD20 via the XBP1/FOXO1 signaling axis, which concomitantly activated the intrinsic apoptotic pathway and significantly enhanced the sensitivity of FL cells to Rituximab-mediated cytotoxicity and apoptosis.Additionally, survival analysis revealed that CD40 serves as a strong prognostic indicator, with its low expression correlated with poorer progression-free survival and overall survival in FL patients.ConclusionsThis study provides the genetic and functional evidence establishing IER3IP1 as a novel causal oncogene in the pathogenesis of FL. Our findings elucidate the critical role of the IER3IP1-mediated XBP1/FOXO1/CD20 axis in targeted therapy resistance, highlighting IER3IP1 as a promising therapeutic target to restore apoptotic activity and improve Rituximab sensitivity.
Preterm birth (PTB) is the leading cause of infant death globally. Improper softening and dilation of the cervix due to cervical insufficiency is a major contributor to PTB. However, the processes describing why or how the cervix prematurely remodels are not well understood. Elastic fibers and smooth muscle cells contribute to contractile and mechanical stability in soft tissues, but their relationship in the cervix is not fully characterized. Towards this end, this study uses the fibulin-5 global knockout mouse model to investigate the impact of elastic fiber deficiency on the contractile and biomechanical behavior of the cervix. Cervixes from nulliparous fibulin-5 wildtype (Fbln5+/+), haploinsufficient (Fbln5+/-), and deficient (Fbln5-/-) mice were explanted and subjected to biaxial contractile and biomechanical extension-inflation testing. Immunofluorescence was used to quantify the localization and expression of elastin and alpha-smooth muscle actin throughout the cervix. Elastin expression and the number of elastic fibers decreased with Fbln5 deficiency. Additionally, contractility and modulus were significantly reduced in the Fbln5-/- cervix as a consequence of elastic fiber deficiency. Overall, this study showed that intact elastic fibers significantly contribute to biomechanical function of the cervix and may be an essential target for future PTB investigations.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Asthma is a multifactorial disease with a role of genetic susceptibility and environmental exposures. These aspects are poorly understood for pediatric obesity-related asthma, a phenotype of non-allergic asthma.To quantify gene by environment interactions in obesity-related asthma.Using expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs) as measure of genetic susceptibility, and obesity-mediated effects on anthropometrics, metabolic measures, and T helper cell proportions as biological sequelae of obesogenic environment, we quantified the association of eQTLs with asthma burden, and its modulation by obesity-mediated effects, in primary cohort of 144 children, and validation cohort of 101 children.Of the 3,904 eQTLs associated with gene expression, up to 30% were associated with pulmonary function indices, including FVC, FEV 1 , TLC, FRC and IC, and were enriched for African ancestry. These eQTLs encoded for antigen presentation, cell mobility, autophagy, small GTPase signal transduction, fatty acid metabolism, and chromosome segregation pathways. Neck and waist circumference, insulin resistance, leptin and adiponectin levels, and T helper 1 and 17 cell proportions attenuated association of up to 51% eQTLs with pulmonary function, which encoded for all but fatty acid metabolism and chromosome segregation pathways. eQTLs associated with ATF6 and MEI1 retained significance. eQTLs for RNASET2, FBLN5, STX2, HEATR3 and SERPINB6 genes were associated with pulmonary function in the validation cohort.We report novel genetic susceptibility markers of asthma burden in pediatric obesity-related asthma that are enriched for African ancestry and are partly attenuated by truncal fat load and obesity-mediated inflammation and metabolic dysregulation.
Purpose Galectin-3 (Gal-3), a multifunctional β-galactoside-binding lectin, is more highly expressed in atypical and anaplastic meningioma subtypes than in normal brain tissue. The mechanism(s) by which Gal-3 may contribute to the aggressive growth of these tumors remains unclear. Methods We evaluated the effects of the Gal-3 inhibitor TD139 combined with either low-intensity direct current electrostimulation (DCES) on meningioma cells in a human co-culture model, or non-invasive transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) in an orthotopic preclinical model. Results In vitro, DCES treatment modulated the expression of human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I and II molecules, which may influence T cell-tumor cell interactions. Gal-3 was found to activate microglia and promote the differentiation of CD4(+) T cells toward Th2 and Treg phenotypes. Treatment with an immunomodulatory dose of DCES, followed by TD139, induced anaplastic meningioma cell death in a human co-culture model without affecting neurons. In the orthotopic allograft preclinical model, treatment with TD139 and tDCS, administered 7 times over 14 days, significantly reduced tumor growth. Survival of tumor-bearing mice treated with TD139 and tDCS was significantly higher than that of untreated controls or mice treated with tDCS or TD139 alone. This combination treatment was also associated with a significant decrease in the meningioma-associated marker NDRG4 and the proliferation marker Ki-67. Conclusion The results indicate that combining Gal-3 inhibitors with direct current stimulation has potential as an effective treatment modality for aggressive meningiomas.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
NDRG1 protein engages with the orphan nuclear receptor NR4A1, effectively suppressing the transcriptional activity of NF-κB and influencing the inflammatory response. However, the specific roles of the NDRG family and NR4A transcription factors in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) remain poorly defined, particularly regarding potential differential mechanisms between ulcerative colitis (UC) and Crohn's disease (CD). We hypothesize that NDRG-NR4A interactions are differentially regulated in UC versus CD, contributing to disease-specific modulation of NF-κB signaling and inflammatory responses. Therefore, the aim was to analyze gene and protein expression of both protein families (NDRGs: NDRG1, NDRG2, NDRG3, and NDRG4; and NR4A: NR4A1, NR4A2, and NR4A3), their contributions to UC and CD, and their association with disease severity. In this cross-sectional and comparative study, we assess gene and protein expression of NR4A and NDRG1-4 in 38 UC patients, 10 CD patients, and 18 controls. Gene and protein expression levels were measured by RT-PCR (mucosa) and immunohistochemistry (colonic tissue), respectively. The colonic mucosa from remission UC patients showed upregulation of NDRG2 and the nuclear receptor genes NR4A1-3 compared with controls. NDRG4 was upregulated in active UC patients compared with controls. NDRG1 was downmodulated in active and remission UC patients compared with controls. All differences were statistically significant (p < 0.05). Decreased NR4A2 gene expression was associated with high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (p = 0.030) and erythrocyte sedimentation rate levels (p = 0.001). Our results provide the first evidence of differential alterations in the NDRG-NR4A axis in UC and CD, which could modulate NF κB signaling and the inflammatory profile differently in each disease, opening the possibility of new therapeutic options.
SNAREs participate in tumor progression; however, existing studies on SNAREs remain fragmented. The discovery of suitable SNARE targets and delineation of their application limits are critical.We performed integrative analyses on clinical data and RNA-seq data from TCGA to identify therapeutic targets in defined cancer subtypes. These in silico findings were substantiated in patient-derived tumor sections, glioma cell lines, and xenografts. Gene/microRNA expression was modulated through lentiviral transduction. Omics methods, including RNA-seq, microRNA sequencing, and data-independent acquisition proteomics, were used to localize/quantify downstream effectors, followed by characterization with antibody-based tests. MicroRNA sponge constructs were validated with qPCR.We evaluated VAMP5 as a glioma-selective therapeutic target and found two distinct response phenotypes following VAMP5 knockdown (KD). In the VAMP5-KD-sensitive subgroup, VAMP5 depletion universally suppressed PLK1, partly by reducing novel upregulatory microRNAs (miR-1301-3p and miR-12135), thereby inhibiting tumor cell proliferation. However, PLK1 expression remained unchanged in VAMP5-KD-insensitive tumors, making PLK1 a reliable pharmacodynamic marker. High NDRG4 expression predicted sensitivity to VAMP5 KD. NDRG4 overexpression induced in insensitive glioma lines converted them to a sensitive phenotype, enabling VAMP5-KD-induced PLK1 downregulation through coordinated modulation of additional microRNAs (classical tumor-suppressive miR-509-5p upregulation and novel upregulatory miR-1185-3p downregulation) and TNKS reduction (which was also shown to contribute to PLK1 downregulation in a subset of VAMP5-KD-sensitive lines). This NDRG4 OE plus VAMP5 KD cascade also diminished the immune checkpoint ligand VCAM1. We identified LGALS1 as a universal VAMP5-coexpressed immune modulator, suggesting that VAMP5 KD may further enhance antitumor immunity by downregulating LGALS1.Our work provides a preliminary mechanistic framework for VAMP5 KD-mediated glioma suppression on proliferation or immune evasion and highlights several translational opportunities.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42241155 is a review article
Copyright: &copy; 2026 dos Santos et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License (CC BY 4.0), which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited. Ewing sarcoma (ES) is an aggressive childhood tumor. We have previously shown that tropomyosin receptor kinase (Trk) neurotrophin receptors regulate viability, and the Trk and multi-kinase inhibitor K252a restores sensitivity to chemotherapy, in ES cells. Here, we show that administration of K252a in mice transiently delays ES tumor growth and reduces expression and phosphorylation of multiple targets. BALB/c nu/nu nude mice inoculated with SK-ES-1 ES cells were given daily intraperitoneal (i.p.) injections of K252a for 18 days. Immunohistochemical analysis of tumors was performed to quantify the expression and phosphorylation of Trk receptors, phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K), and insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (IGF1R). Treatment with K252a led to a partial and transient delay in ES tumor growth and reduced the expression and phosphorylation of TrkA, TrkB, PI3K, and IGF1R. Combined treatment with K252a and the IGF1R inhibitor NVP-ADW742 was more effective in reducing ES cell viability than each compound alone. Associations between genes encoding Trks, PI3K, and IGF1R and overall survival (OS) in patients with ES was examined. Significant associations between expression of NTRK genes and patient OS were found, indicating that NTRK genes should be further evaluated as biomarkers for prognosis in patients with ES.
Long-term excessive fluoride ingestion may lead to skeletal fluorosis, a disease characterized by unclear pathogenesis and lack of effective cure. Bone marrow mesenchymal stem cell-derived extracellular vesicles (BMSCs-EVs) exert a crucial regulatory effect on bone remodeling and have broad clinical application prospects. Whether BMSCs-EVs can participate in the occurrence and development of skeletal fluorosis by transferring miRNAs is a scientific question worth exploring. In this study, miRNA sequencing was used to screen for differentially expressed miRNAs in fluoride-exposed rBMSCs-EVs (F-EVs). The top 15 differentially expressed miRNAs were subjected to target gene prediction, and GO and KEGG analyses as well as PPI network construction were performed. On this basis, miR-320-3p was selected for in-depth study. First, our data revealed that miR-320-3p was upregulated in fluoride-exposed osteoblasts and was involved in the enhancement of fluoride-induced osteogenic differentiation. Subsequently, a tracing experiment confirmed that rBMSCs-EVs and their miR-320-3p could be successfully taken up by fluoride-exposed osteoblasts. Then, elevated levels of miR-320-3p in F-EVs could further promote the enhancement of fluoride-induced osteogenic differentiation, while EVs with inhibited miR-320-3p exerted a significant inhibitory effect. Mechanism studies revealed that under fluoride exposure, rBMSCs-EVs could regulate Igf1r/ERK1/2/MAPK by transferring miR-320-3p, thereby affecting osteogenic differentiation. This study is the first to elucidate the pathogenesis of skeletal fluorosis from the rBMSCs-EVs miRNAs and provides new ideas for the clinical management of skeletal fluorosis.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Liver tissue engineering offers a promising alternative for end-stage liver disease, yet the recreation of functional vasculature remains a major bottleneck to clinical translation. Here, we developed vascularized liver organoids by integrating human induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived hepatoblasts and endothelial cells into decellularized scaffolds functionalized with an anti-CD31 aptamer-based vascular coating agent (VCA). This facilitated spatially coordinated organization of vasculature and parenchyma. Spatial transcriptomic profiling and subsequent functional perturbation demonstrated IGF2-IGF1R-AKT/MAPK signaling as a key axis governing spatial organization and functional maturation of the liver organoids. Furthermore, exogenous IGF2 synergized with the VCA to augment the structural and functional refinement of liver organoids, which translated into markedly improved therapeutic outcomes following transplantation into a chronic liver failure mouse model. Collectively, these findings establish a comprehensive framework for generating physiologically relevant liver tissues from iPSCs and demonstrate the utility of spatial transcriptomics for uncovering regenerative mechanisms. This approach advances the feasibility of autologous, transplantable liver grafts for personalized regenerative therapy.
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is characterized by an aggressive clinical course and extremely limited targeted therapy options. One of the key drivers of immunosuppression in the tumor microenvironment is the polarization of tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) towards the M2 phenotype. In the present study, we investigated the effect of insulin-like growth factor 2 (IGF2)-the primary ligand of the IGF1R receptor and a target of the inhibitory protein IGFBP6-on the transcriptional profile of macrophages polarized in vitro from the THP-1 cell line. We demonstrate that IGF2 exerts fundamentally different effects depending on the baseline functional state of the macrophages: in immature (M0) and M2-polarized cells, it induces the expression of pro-inflammatory genes, whereas in M1 macrophages it triggers pronounced immunosuppressive reprogramming. These findings suggest that IGFBP6, by inhibiting IGF2, may sustain an anti-tumor immune response within the TNBC microenvironment.© 2026. The Author(s).
To investigate the effect of miR-100-5p on the biological behaviors of pediatric acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cells by targeting insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (IGF1R ).QRT-PCR was used to detect the expression levels of miR-100-5p and IGF1R mRNA in AML cell lines (THP-1, TF-1a, HL-60) and serum of children with AML. The dual-luciferase reporter gene assay was applied to verify the targeting relationship between miR-100-5p and IGF1R . THP-1 cells were assigned into Control group, miR-NC group, miR-100-5p mimics group, miR-100-5p mimics+pcDNA group, and miR-100-5p mimics+IGF1R group. The colony formation assay, scratch healing assay, and transwell assay were used to detect the proliferation, migration, and invasion abilities of THP-1 cells in each group, and Western blot assay was used to detect the protein expression of IGF1R, PCNA, MMP-2, MMP-9, E-cadherin, N-cadherin, and Vimentin.The expression level of IGF1R mRNA was significantly increased, while the expression level of miR-100-5p was significantly decreased in both the serum of pediatric AML patients and THP-1 cells (P < 0.001). Analysis via the StarBase database predicted the presence of potential binding sites between miR-100-5p and IGF1R . Compared with the miR-NC group, in the miR-100-5p mimics group, the number of colonies formed, scratch healing rate, and number of invasive cells of THP-1 cells were significantly decreased; the protein expression levels of IGF1R, PCNA, MMP-2, MMP-9, N-cadherin, and Vimentin were significantly decreased, while the expression level of miR-100-5p and the protein expression level of E-cadherin were significantly increased (all P < 0.05). Compared with the miR-100-5p mimics+pcDNA group, in the miR-100-5p mimics+IGF1R group, the number of colonies formed, scratch healing rate, and number of invasive cells were significantly increased; the protein expression levels of IGF1R, PCNA, MMP-2, MMP-9, N-cadherin, and Vimentin were significantly increased, while the protein expression level of E-cadherin was significantly decreased (all P < 0.05).Overexpression of miR-100-5p can targetedly inhibit IGF1R , thereby suppressing the proliferation, migration, invasion, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) of AML cells.
To characterize tear proteome changes in male non-obese diabetic (NOD) mice with Sjögren's disease (SjD)-like autoimmune dacryoadenitis and determine whether identified tear proteins are associated with lacrimal gland (LG) pathogenesis.Tears were collected from 14-week-old male NOD mice and age-matched male BALB/c controls and analyzed by tandem mass tag (TMT)-based liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were defined using adjusted P < 0.05 and absolute fold change > 1.5. Functional enrichment analysis was performed using Enrichr. Selected upregulated DEPs were further examined in tear and LG samples from independent mouse cohorts using Western blotting, immunofluorescence, and RT-qPCR.A total of 142 proteins were quantified across all tear samples. Hierarchical clustering and principal component analysis (PCA) separated NOD from BALB/c tear proteomes. A total of 41 proteins were differentially expressed in NOD mouse tears (33 increased, 8 decreased). Increased tear proteins were enriched in immune and inflammatory responses, secretory compartments, RAGE receptor binding, glutathione metabolism, oxidative stress, and redox regulation. S100A8/A9, GSTO1-1, Gal-3, and pIgR/secretory component (SC) were increased in both NOD mouse tears and LG. In NOD LG, increased S100A8/A9 was accompanied by elevated RAGE, whereas increased GSTO1-1 was associated with increased NLRP3, cleaved caspase-1, cleaved gasdermin, cleaved IL-1β, and increased Il1b , Il18 , and Il18r gene expression.Male NOD mouse tears contain disease-related proteins reflecting pathological inflammatory and epithelial changes in the LG including increased RAGE signaling, NLRP3 inflammasome activation, and altered epithelial transcytosis.
Cardiac hypertrophy refers to the compensatory response of the heart to various physiological or pathological stimuli in order to maintain its function. Let-7e-5p has been reported to be upregulated in patients with cardiac hypertrophy.This study aimed to investigate the role of let-7e-5p in the progression of cardiac hypertrophy using animal and cell models.Peripheral blood was collected from patients with cardiac hypertrophy and healthy controls to detect let-7e-5p expression via reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR). An aortic banding (AB)-induced cardiac hypertrophy rat model was established to explore let-7e-5p expression in vivo. Antagomir let-7e-5p was used to investigate the effects of let-7e-5p silencing on cardiac hypertrophy progression in an AB-induced rat model. Angiotensin II (Ang II) was used to induce hypertrophy in H9c2 rat cardiomyocytes in vitro. The downstream regulatory mechanism of let-7e-5p was investigated in H9c2 cells.We first examined and verified that let-7e-5p was upregulated in blood samples from patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) compared to healthy controls and showed good diagnostic performance according to receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis. In vivo, let-7e-5p was overexpressed in the heart tissues of AB-induced cardiac hypertrophy rats. Let-7e-5p deficiency alleviated AB surgery-induced cardiac hypertrophy in rat models. In vitro, let-7e-5p expression was higher in Ang II-induced H9c2 rat cardiomyocytes. Let-7e-5p inhibition reversed the Ang II-induced increase in cardiomyocyte size and the upregulation of ANP, BNP, and β-MHC expression, whereas let-7e-5p overexpression showed the opposite effects. Mechanistically, limb-bud and heart (LBH) was identified as a target of let-7e-5p, and LBH overexpression reversed the promotive effects of let-7e-5p on hypertrophy in Ang II-treated H9c2 cells. IGF-PI3K-AKT signaling was activated in Ang II-treated H9c2 cells, and let-7e-5p silencing suppressed its activation by targeting LBH. The IGF1R inhibitor PQ401 reversed the enhancement of H9c2 hypertrophy induced by let-7e-5p upregulation or LBH silencing.Let-7e-5p promotes cardiac hypertrophy by targeting LBH and regulating the IGF-PI3K-AKT signaling pathway, which may provide novel insights into targeted therapy.
Insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) receptor (IGF-1R) inhibitors have changed the treatment landscape for moderate-to-severe thyroid eye disease (TED), but the longitudinal behavior of circulating IGF-1 during and after therapy remains insufficiently characterized. This study aimed to describe serum IGF-1 dynamics in patients with TED treated with IGF-1R inhibitor teprotumumab N01 and to explore their relationship with glycemic changes.In this retrospective cohort study, 92 patients with moderate-to-severe TED treated with teprotumumab N01 who had longitudinal IGF-1 measurements were included. IGF-1 dynamics were characterized at infusion-based visits and during post-treatment follow-up. Glycemic changes were assessed using fasting blood glucose (FBG), hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c), and glycated albumin (GA). Patients were classified by baseline glycemic status. Associations between IGF-1 metrics and glycemic changes were evaluated using multivariable linear regression for continuous glycemic outcomes and logistic regression for threshold-defined glycemic events, with sequential adjustment for age, sex, baseline glycemic markers, and baseline IGF-1 when applicable. Additional analyses were performed according to baseline glycemic status and baseline HbA1c quartiles.Baseline serum IGF-1 was 151.0 ng/mL (IQR 116.8-187.3). IGF-1 increased markedly after treatment initiation, with a median early-treatment peak fold change of 3.5 (IQR 3.0-4.3) and a median on-treatment peak concentration of 649.5 ng/mL (IQR 520.8-753.8), corresponding to a 4.2-fold increase from baseline (IQR 3.5-5.0). IGF-1 remained elevated during the first 3 months after the last infusion and then declined progressively, generally approaching baseline by 6-9 months or later. Glycemic markers showed modest increases, with median peak increases from baseline of 0.40% (IQR 0.20-0.77) for HbA1c, 1.63% (IQR 0.95-2.39) for GA, and 0.65 mmol/L (IQR 0.30-1.14) for FBG. Glycemic deterioration was most pronounced in patients with baseline dysglycemia. In contrast, neither baseline IGF-1 nor IGF-1 dynamic metrics were consistently identified as independent correlates of glycemic changes after adjustment for age, sex, and baseline glycemic markers and IGF-1. Similar findings were observed in subgroup and HbA1c quartile analyses.Teprotumumab N01 treatment was associated with a substantial, early, and broadly reversible increase in circulating IGF-1 in patients with moderate-to-severe TED, but IGF-1 dynamics did not serve as an independent indicator of glycemic deterioration.Copyright © 2026 Zhao, Zhou, Gao, Zhou, Han, Zhang and Ji.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42522137 is a review article
Alzheimer's disease (AD) develops through complex interactions between the central nervous system and peripheral systems. The microbiota-metabolite-immune axis has emerged as an important focus of AD research. However, the coordinated mechanisms that regulate this axis remain poorly understood.We used a multi-stage, multi-omics strategy to systematically investigate peripheral-central interactions in AD. The analytical framework integrated Mendelian randomization (MR), summary-data-based Mendelian randomization (SMR), differential expression analysis, machine learning, single-cell and spatial transcriptomics, and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) trend confirmation.Exploratory MR analyses identified multiple microbial taxa, metabolites, and immune cell phenotypes showing associations consistent with potential causal effects on AD. Integrating the SMR and MR findings with differential expression analysis led to the identification of 31 core genetically associated genes. A five-gene predictive model comprising ATF7IP2, TWSG1, PTPRN2, ASCC3 and IGF1R was then developed using machine learning. The diagnostic potential of the individual feature genes was further evaluated in an external validation dataset. Spatial transcriptomic analyses revealed clear cell type-specific expression patterns in brain tissue, with IGF1R, ASCC3and TWSG1 showing potential co-localization in oligodendrocytes. qPCR trend confirmation in pooled samples produced expression trends consistent with the directions inferred from eQTL-based MR.This study mapped a regulatory network underlying the AD microbiota-metabolite-immune-brain axis and identified core genes with potential diagnostic and therapeutic value. The spatial transcriptomic findings, while primarily based on in situ co-localization analysis, highlight a biologically plausible but provisional working hypothesis regarding an active role for oligodendrocytes in AD pathology. Overall, this study supports a systems-level view of AD that may inform precision medicine strategies.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Yan and Zhang.
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a multifarious and chronic hormonal disease of women that is marked by hyperandrogenism, insulin resistance, and continued anovulation. This study aimed to evaluate the therapeutic effect of escin in PCOS. For this purpose, a network pharmacology and molecular docking study was performed to find potential targets and to explore the interaction of escin with major proteins associated with PCOS pathogenesis, including CYP19A1, the estrogen receptor, TNF-α, and SHBG. In this study, letrozole (1 mg/kg) was administered orally for 28 days to induce PCOS in all Wistar rats except for normal control. After PCOS induction, normal and PCOS + Veh group received 1 ml of 0.5% CMC, PCOS + Met treated with metformin (300 mg/kg), whereas treatment groups received PCOS + Escin 5, 10, and 15 mg/kg daily via oral route for 28 days. At the end of the experiment, body weight, oral glucose, hormonal level (sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), estrogen, progesterone, luteinizing hormone, follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), testosterone), lipid profile, and liver tests were performed. Activity of CAT and SOD, and level of MDA and reduced GSH were measured in the ovary homogeneity. mRNA expression of TNF-α, IL-6, Nrf2/Keap-1, PGR, FSHR, and CYP19A1 were quantified in ovarian tissue by real-time PCR. The docking analysis demonstrated favorable binding affinities and stable ligand-protein interactions to CYP19A1, estrogen receptor, TNF-α, and SHBG, suggesting that escin might be regulated for steroidogenesis, inflammatory signaling, and hormonal imbalance through multi-target mechanisms in PCOS. Escin treatment groups significantly (p < 0.05) reduced body weight and normalized glucose, hormonal levels, lipid profile, and liver function in treated rats in contrast to PCOS + Veh group. PCOS + Escin treatment groups (5-15 mg/kg) notably reduced the oxidative stress as compared to the PCOS + Veh group. PCOS + Escin 15 significantly downregulated expression of TNF-α, IL-6, Keap-1, NF-KB, and PGR whereas upregulated FSHR, Nrf2, and CYP19A1 in treated rats as compared to the PCOS + Veh group. PCOS + Escin dose dependently reduced the level of TNF-α and IL-6 in the serum of treated rats in contrast to PCOS + Veh. It can be inferred from findings that escin dose dependently restored inflammatory, oxidative stress, and steroidogenic pathways in letrozole-induced PCOS in treated rats as in silico study confirmed the binding affinity of escin with CYP19A1, estrogen receptor, and TNF-α, and SHBG.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Type 1 diabetes mellitus characterized by insulin deficiency and hyperglycemia is associated with female subfertility. However, how hyperglycemia affects the hypothalamic-pituitary-ovarian-uterine axis remains poorly understood. In this study, we performed single-cell transcriptomic profiling of the hypothalamus, pituitary, ovary and uterus during the proliferative phase of the menstrual cycle in type 1 diabetic macaques to systematically characterize changes in tissue-specific cellular heterogeneity, gene expression, and intercellular communication networks under diabetic conditions. Our analysis revealed significant upregulation of the TNF signaling pathway across multiple tissues, concomitant with marked activation of inflammation-related pathways. Notably, the macrophage migration inhibitory factor signaling pathway exhibited a tissue-specific regulatory pattern, being significantly upregulated in the hypothalamus and pituitary but downregulated in the ovary and uterus, suggesting divergent inflammatory modulation along the reproductive endocrine axis in response to diabetes. Moreover, we observed that diabetes leads to reduced FSHR expression during granulosa cell differentiation, and this process is further exacerbated by the upregulated expression of SFRP4, a known antagonist of follicle-stimulating hormone signaling, resulting in diminished granulosa cell responsiveness to follicle-stimulating hormone. Consequently, this dysregulation is correlated with increased FSHB expression in pituitary gonadotropes, likely due to disrupted ovarian feedback signaling. Collectively, our findings provide a comprehensive landscape of cellular and molecular alterations in immune and endocrine compartments in the female reproductive system in diabetic states, advancing our understanding of immune‒endocrine cell crosstalk in the context of metabolic disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
Sir2-HerA systems are abortive infection defenses that integrate multiple enzymatic activities to induce growth arrest, thereby limiting phage propagation. However, the molecular logic that couples phage sensing to a precisely gated antiviral response, thereby ensuring infection-specific activation, remains unclear. Through genomic mining of Escherichia coli, we show that E. coli Sir2-HerA immunity diversifies into functional subtypes and identify three types (I-III) with distinct protection profiles. Focusing on the most potent type III system, we identified its phage activators, Gp2.5 and Gp5.9, through an unbiased T7 proteome screen. Mechanistically, type III Sir2-HerA follows a multilayered gating logic. Phage proteins trigger both the HerA nickase and Sir2 NADase; however, the activated NADase remains dormant due to an ATP-mediated checkpoint. The HerA nickase introduces DNA nicks, leading to the accumulation of end-exposed DNA intermediates that engage the complex-associated ATPase to drive ATP consumption. This process relieves the checkpoint, thereby unleashing the full trigger-dependent NADase activity and enabling robust NAD+ depletion. Together, our findings reveal a sophisticated molecular logic that integrates diverse enzymatic activities into a tiered gating architecture, ensuring high-fidelity phage defense while preventing inadvertent activation.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is an enveloped, negative-sense, single-stranded RNA virus whose ribonucleoproteins (vRNPs) must be transported from cytoplasmic viral factories to the plasma membrane for efficient virion assembly. Viral vRNPs comprise genomic RNA encapsidated by nucleoprotein N and associated with the polymerase complex (L, P, and M2-1). It was previously demonstrated that newly synthesized vRNPs are transported along microtubules by hijacking Rab11a, a small GTPase involved in the regulation of recycling endosomes. In our previous study, we showed an interaction between Rab11a and vRNPs in infected cells by immunoprecipitation assays, nevertheless the molecular mechanisms underlying Rab11a viral hijacking remained unknown. Here, we provide the first comprehensive characterization of the interaction between RSV vRNPs and Rab11a using immunoprecipitation, immunofluorescence colocalization, GST pull-down assays, and biolayer interferometry. We demonstrate that the viral polymerase L is the sole vRNPs component responsible for Rab11a recognition: immunoprecipitation of L specifically co-precipitates HA-tagged Rab11a, whereas other vRNPs proteins show no interaction. In vitro binding studies confirm that L interacts directly and specifically with the active, GTP-bound form of Rab11a with sub-micromolar affinity. Domain mapping using truncated constructs reveals that this interaction requires the C-terminal methyltransferase and CTD domains of L (residues 1756-2165) and depends on Rab11a's Switch I region, known to mediate interactions with cellular Rab11a partners. Mutagenesis further highlights leucine 1860 in the L polymerase as critical for Rab11a binding. Competitive inhibition of the interaction between Rab11a and L using the minimal Rab11a-binding domain significantly impairs vRNP dynamics during infection, indicating that Rab11a-L binding is involved in the transport of vRNPs. Together, these findings establish RSV polymerase L as the key mediator of Rab11a engagement, define the molecular interface of their interaction, and reveal a potentially conserved viral strategy for genome transport. Targeting the L-Rab11a interaction could therefore be a promising strategy for the development of RSV-specific or broad-spectrum antiviral therapies.Copyright: © 2026 Giry et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Fibroblast growth factor 21 (Fgf21) is a member of the endocrine subfamily of fibroblast growth factors. In mammals, FGF21 regulates glucose and lipid metabolism, and energy balance. Fgf21 was recently demonstrated to stimulate feed intake and regulate energy balance in zebrafish. The physiological mechanisms that regulate energy balance are tightly interlinked with reproduction. As a first step to extend our original findings on Fgf21 and energy balance, this research aimed to determine whether Fgf21 regulates the reproductive axis in zebrafish. Using quantitative PCR, we demonstrate the expression of fgf21, its receptor fgfr1c, and co-receptor β-klotho; and FGF21-like immunoreactivity (immunohistochemistry) in the zebrafish ovary and liver cells. These results suggest local production of FGF21 and possible actions within the ovary. Single intraperitoneal (IP) injection of 1, 10, or 100 ng/g bodyweight FGF21 significantly (ANOVA, P < 0.05) upregulated reproductive hormone genes in the brain; gonadotropin-releasing hormone isoforms (sgnrh/cgnrh-III) and kisspeptin (kiss1), and gonads; aromatase (cyp19a1a) and gonadotropin receptors (fshr, lhr) that are critical for reproductive success. FGF21 significantly (ANOVA, P < 0.05) upregulated vitellogenin transcript levels and total vitellogenin concentration (ELISA) in zebrafish liver cells at 1 h and 24 h post-incubation, respectively. Lastly, at 100 ng/mL, FGF21 induced (ANOVA P < 0.05) oocyte maturation in vitro (determined by germinal vesicle breakdown quantification). These results support a very strong positive role for Fgf21 in the reproductive endocrine axis of zebrafish.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
DNAJC13 was initially linked to autosomal dominant (AD) Parkinson's disease (PD) in a European Mennonite family carrying the p.N855S variant. However, imperfect segregation and conflicting reports of pathogenicity raised uncertainty of the role of DNAJC13 in the disease.The objective for this study was to explore the association between common and rare variants in DNAJC13 and PD.We leveraged the largest available PD genetics data from the Accelerating Medicines Partnership-Parkinson Disease and the diverse ancestry available through the Global Parkinson's Genetics Program (GP2), consisting of 2471 patients and 3098 control subjects and 44,186 patients and 27,066 control subjects, respectively, to perform burden tests and association tests for rare and common variants, respectively.Burden analysis showed no association between rare variants in DNAJC13 and PD. However, association analysis within common nonsynonymous variants nominated five variants within DNAJC13. Nevertheless, these associations require further investigation.Our analysis did not find further evidence supporting DNAJC13 involvement in PD. However, studies of even larger cohorts and AD-PD families may bring definite answers about the role of DNAJC13 in PD. © 2026 The Author(s). Movement Disorders published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.© 2026 The Author(s). Movement Disorders published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42531755 is a review article
To investigate the potential impact of plasticizers on infertility and elucidate the underlying mechanisms, we employed an integrated approach combining network toxicology, molecular docking, and in vitro experimental validation.Initially, we identified potential targets by intersecting plasticizer-related targets with infertility-associated targets, yielding 134 candidate targets. These targets were subsequently analyzed using the STRING database and Cytoscape software to construct protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks, from which 20 hub genes were identified. Functional enrichment analysis conducted using the R software revealed that these targets participate in multiple biological pathways. Molecular docking simulations performed with AutoDock Vina and visualized using PyMol demonstrated strong binding affinities between key hub targets and three representative plasticizers: diethyl phthalate (DEP), dimethyl phthalate (DMP), and dioctyl phthalate (DOP). For experimental validation, we examined the effects of plasticizers on the human ovarian granulosa cell lines. CCK-8 assays revealed significant inhibition of cell proliferation following exposure to plasticizer. Flow cytometry and western blot analyses further showed that plasticizer treatment upregulated the anti-apoptotic protein BCL-2 while downregulating pro-apoptotic BAX, as well as key reproductive markers, including CYP19A1, ER-α, and FSHR.Collectively, these findings demonstrate that plasticizers may contribute to infertility through multiple molecular pathways, as predicted by network toxicology and confirmed by in vitro experiments. This integrated approach provides compelling evidence for the reproductive toxicity of plasticizers and offers insights into their potential mechanisms of action.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Zhang, Chang, Fan, Qin, Li, Shen and Liu.
This study investigated the efficacy of a modified Ovsynch (MOVS) protocol incorporating a 50% reduced dose of a gonadotropin-releasing hormone analog (GnRHa) conjugated with chitosan nanoparticles. Thirty-two Holstein heifers under heat-stress (HS) conditions were randomly assigned to either a standard Ovsynch (SOVS) or MOVS protocol (n = 16/group). Ovarian dynamics were monitored across the protocol days (D0, D3, D7, D9, D14, and D19). Hormonal profiles, metabolic and oxidative markers, and mRNA expressions of folliculogenesis- and apoptosis-related genes were evaluated. Both protocols improved follicular recruitment (p > 0.05). However, the MOVS significantly enhanced the dominant follicle (DF) diameter on D9 (p < 0.001). On D14 and D19, CL diameters were larger in the MOVS group (p < 0.001). These findings were associated with significantly high estradiol (E2) concentrations on D9 (p < 0.05) and progesterone (P4) concentrations on D19 (p < 0.05). Metabolic and oxidative stress markers were increased in MOVS-treated heifers, while antioxidant markers were also improved (p < 0.05). At the molecular level, the MOVS numerically upregulated the expression of folliculogenesis-related genes (BMP15, GDF9, LHR, FSHR, and IGF-1R) and an anti-apoptotic gene (BCL2) in peripheral blood (p > 0.05). In conclusion, the MOVS protocol achieved a 50% reduction in GnRHa dose while improving ovarian, endocrine, and reproductive physiological indicators, suggesting a promising strategy for optimizing synchronization in heifers under HS conditions.
Swine herd immunization through modified live vaccination or live virus inoculation is a core strategy for controlling porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome (PRRS), one of the most economically important endemic diseases in the United States that is caused by PRRSV-2. While antigenically homologous PRRSV-2 viruses are expected to elicit better immunological cross-protection, questions remain as to how genetic similarity translates to the degree of cross-protection elicited between the immunizing strain and subsequent challenge virus. For PRRSV-2, virus neutralization (VN) assays are commonly used to approximate humoral immune responses and to assess cross-variant vaccine efficacy; however, these assays are labor-intensive and difficult to scale for rapid immunization planning.Here, we developed a machine learning-based predictive model for PRRSV-2 cross-neutralization using viral genetic sequence data to address this gap. Virus neutralization assays were performed across a panel of viral isolates and anti-sera, representing a variety of contemporary and vaccine-like PRRSV-2 variants. Our internal dataset comprised 219 cross-neutralization pairs involving nine viral isolates and 25 antisera generated from animals inoculated with six isolates (immunizing viruses). Neutralization titers were classified as above versus below average using mean standardized log2 titers as the cutoff. Candidate predictors included residue-wise amino acid property differences, overall viral genetic distances, and protein structural comparison metrics. Eleven machine learning algorithms were trained and evaluated using internal and external test sets.The best models, which utilized predictors from protein ectodomain features, effectively estimated whether a virus-antisera pair would exhibit above versus below average neutralization, achieving balanced accuracies of 87-92% on internal data, and 71-89% across three external VN datasets. Key predictors included amino acid properties in GP5 decoy epitope and hypervariable regions, residues within GP2-GP3 epitopes, and overall genetic distance.These models are publicly available through a web-based tool (https://stemma.shinyapps.io/PRRSLoom-NeutralizationPredictor/) for end-users to estimate the neutralization potential between genetically distinct PRRSV-2 viruses. Our integration of machine learning, in vitro experimental data, and webtool bridges experimental research with real-world application in veterinary decision-making.Copyright © 2026 Pamornchainavakul, Huang, Paploski, Makau, Ferreira, Krishna, Schroeder, Cheeran and VanderWaal.
Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) exhibits heterogeneous responses to immune checkpoint blockade, highlighting the need to define tumor-intrinsic mechanisms driving resistance to PD-L1 inhibition. Here, we identified GTP-binding protein overexpressed in skeletal muscle (GEM) as a tumor cell-intrinsic regulator associated with poor response to anti-PD-L1 therapy in ESCC. GEM expression in tumor cells drove tumor-associated macrophage (TAM)-mediated immunosuppression, leading to reduced CD8⁺ T cell infiltration and impaired cytotoxic function. Mechanistically, GEM induced SERPINE1 expression that was secreted and acted on macrophage LRP1 to drive alternative activation and suppress antitumor immunity. GEM enhanced SERPINE1 expression through a MKK3-RACK1-p38-MEF2A cascade. GEM signaling was reinforced by a metabolically coupled feedback mechanism. Macrophages exposed to GEM-high tumor cells promoted tumor cell glycolysis and lactate production, which drove AARS1-dependent lactylation of GEM and strengthened its interaction with RACK1 to amplify downstream signaling. Disruption of the SERPINE1-LRP1 axis restored CD8⁺ T cell activity and enhanced response to PD-L1 blockade in vivo. Pharmacological perturbation of GEM-dependent signaling remodeled the tumor immune microenvironment and improved responses to PD-L1 blockade. Together, these findings define a GEM-SERPINE1-LRP1 signaling axis that drives macrophage-mediated immune suppression and suggest that targeting this pathway may enhance the efficacy of PD-L1 blockade in ESCC.
Recent genetic findings have broadened the perspectives of cluster headache pathophysiology. Genes identified by genome wide association studies are likely to be involved in the pathophysiological mechanisms underlying the disease. In this study, we performed validation and characterization of eight loci corresponding to nine genes identified in previous genome wide association studies.Genetic loci were validated by means of a case-control study using TaqMan genotyping in 671 individuals, and a meta-analysis using previously genotyped data. Pyrosequencing methylation analysis and reverse transcription quantitative PCR gene expression studies was performed in a subset of individuals with cluster headache and healthy controls.Genetic associations were found with functional variants in two genes; FHL5 and MERTK. The minor allele of the FHL5 variant rs2273621 was associated with an increased risk of cluster headache in the genotyped samples (odds ratio = 1.42, P = 0.03) and in a meta-analysis (odds ratio = 1.29, confidence interval: 1.09-1.52), and the minor allele of the rs2230515 variant in MERTK was associated with lower risk in the meta-analysis (odds ratio = 0.69, confidence interval: 0.52-0.92). Methylation analysis further revealed altered methylation status of MERTK. Moreover, changes in relative gene expression were found for several candidate genes: a decrease in the mRNA expression of DUSP10 (P < 0.001), CAPN2 (P < 0.001), UFL1 (P < 0.001) and LRP1 (P = 0.007) in blood, and a decrease of CAPN2 (P < 0.001) as well as an increase in the mRNA expression of FTCDNL1/FONG (P = 0.004) in fibroblasts in CH vs. controls. Only two genes; PLCE1 and WNT2, could not be validated in the biological tissue studied; WNT2, possibly due to limited power, while PLCE1 was not expressed in the available tissue.These results confirm the validity of seven candidate genes for cluster headache identified through GWAS. Furthermore, five of the candidate genes are abundantly expressed in both immune and blood cells, converge functionally on inflammatory signalling pathways and suggest a potential role for inflammasomes in cluster headache.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42552594 is a review article
Mechanical chest compressions during cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) can produce pulmonary edema, described as cardiopulmonary resuscitation-associated lung edema (CRALE), which has been largely interpreted as a hydrostatic phenomenon. However, whether early molecular changes associated with epithelial injury, coagulation, and inflammation are also present during resuscitation remains uncertain. We hypothesized that bronchoalveolar lavage fluid proteomics would identify early protein signatures of lung injury after CPR.Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) was collected separately from the right and left caudal lung lobes of nine pigs before cardiac arrest and again after ventricular fibrillation, 8 min of untreated arrest, and up to 45 min of CPR. In animals achieving return of spontaneous circulation, post-CPR BALF was obtained immediately after resuscitation; in the remaining animals, sampling was performed at the end of CPR. Proteins were digested, tandem mass tag 18-plex labeled, and analyzed by high-resolution liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. Differentially abundant proteins were defined by fold change >1.5 or <0.67 with P < 0.05. Functional enrichment, histologic assessment, and western blot validation were performed.A total of 1088 proteins were identified in left lung BALF and 1200 in right lung BALF. Comparison of pre- and post-CPR samples identified 74 and 78 differentially abundant proteins in the left and right lungs, respectively, with 28 shared proteins across both lungs. Among the most increased proteins were plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (SERPINE1/PAI-1), apolipoprotein A1, inter-alpha inhibitor family proteins, vitronectin, histones, and advanced glycation end-product receptor (AGER). Functional enrichment showed over-representation of proteins related to complement and coagulation, platelet degranulation, lipid metabolism, and extracellular matrix signaling. Histology showed mild septal thickening, vascular neutrophilic infiltration, interstitial edema, and patchy fibrin deposition, consistent with early pneumocyte injury and mild inflammation. Western blot confirmed increased post-CPR abundance of PAI-1 and apolipoprotein A1.Early after resuscitation, BALF proteomics identified molecular changes characterized by increased antifibrinolytic and complement-related proteins, together with proteins associated with epithelial and endothelial stress. These findings suggest that pulmonary abnormalities after CPR may involve not only hydrostatic edema but also an early biologic response consistent with lung injury, which may contribute to post-cardiac arrest respiratory dysfunction and progression to acute respiratory distress syndrome.© 2026 The Authors.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42525165 is a review article
We report a primary perivascular epithelioid cell tumor (PEComa) of the kidney harboring a novel CLTC::TFE3 gene fusion in a 51-year-old woman. The tumor was composed of high-grade epithelioid cells with clear to eosinophilic cytoplasm arranged in nested and alveolar architectures, closely mimicking clear cell renal cell carcinoma, which posed a significant diagnostic pitfall. Immunophenotypically, the tumor lacked multiple epithelial and renal lineage markers but showed diffuse positivity for melanocytic markers and cathepsin K. TFE3 rearrangement was confirmed by fluorescence in situ hybridization and an in-frame CLTC::TFE3 fusion involving exons 1-17 of CLTC and exons 6-10 of TFE3 was identified by subsequent RNA sequencing. The patient developed an aggressive clinical course, with early brain metastasis and multiple recurrences over a five-year period despite multiple radical surgical resections, radiotherapy, and systemic therapy. This tumor represents the first reported primary renal PEComa harboring a CLTC::TFE3 fusion and the second tumor with this fusion reported in the literature. Our findings expand the molecular spectrum of TFE3-rearranged PEComa and underscore the importance of comprehensive immunohistochemical and molecular profiling in accurately diagnosing these rare tumors and distinguishing from their morphologic mimics.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) features a fibrotic stroma dominated by cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), yet the functional heterogeneity of CAFs and their crosstalk with malignant cells in metastasis and immune evasion remain unclear.We performed an integrated analysis of single‑cell RNA‑seq data and spatial transcriptomics of PDAC. Pseudotime trajectory reconstruction, regulon activity inference, and ligand-receptor interaction mapping were applied to dissect fibroblast heterogeneity and stromal-epithelial crosstalk. Bulk transcriptomic data from multiple independent cohorts were used to evaluate prognostic and immunotherapeutic implications.We identified nine CAF subsets, including a THBS2⁺ ECM‑remodeling population enriched in liver metastases. Spatial transcriptomics localized these THBS2⁺ CAFs to dense stromal regions surrounding malignant ducts, where they established an immune‑excluded microenvironment correlated with T‑cell exclusion and immunotherapy resistance. Pseudotime analysis revealed PRRX2 as a master regulator driving this CAF subset. Epithelial sub-clustering uncovered KRT17⁺ malignant cells (a transcriptionally distinct epithelial subpopulation associated with EMT and metastasis) that co-enriched with THBS2⁺ CAFs in metastatic sites. Ligand-receptor analysis showed that THBS2⁺ CAFs are computationally predicted to signal to KRT17⁺ cells via the THBS2-SDC4 axis, while malignant cells reciprocally activate CAFs through MDK-LRP1 and SPP1-integrin pathways. Co‑infiltration of both populations strongly predicted poor prognosis and resistance to anti‑PD‑L1 therapy across multiple cohorts.The THBS2⁺ CAF-KRT17⁺ malignant cell axis drives metastatic progression and immune exclusion in PDAC via THBS2-SDC4 signaling, representing a promising prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Cornerstone therapies for metastatic prostate cancer include androgen deprivation and androgen receptor pathway inhibition, but cognitive impairment is a recognized, life-altering potential adverse effect of this treatment. Abiraterone acetate (AA), an androgen receptor pathway and CYP17A1 inhibitor, suppresses androgen synthesis and may contribute to cognitive changes. This cell culture-based study uses the BE(2)M17 human male neuroblastoma model to investigate AA-induced alterations in gene and protein expression that may underlie cognitive decline, laying the foundation for a mechanistic investigation aimed at identifying molecular targets to mitigate cognitive impairment in men with prostate cancer receiving androgen-directed therapies.BE(2)M17 cells were pretreated for 12 h with dihydrotestosterone (DHT; 5 nM) or vehicle control, then exposed to AA (0, 5, 10 µM, 24 h). RNA and protein were analyzed by qRT-PCR and Western blot for markers of amyloid processing, neuronal health, and mitochondrial function.AA significantly altered multiple neurobiological markers. BACE1 mRNA increased in DHT + 10 µM AA compared to control and DHT alone (p = 0.0416 and p = 0.0118). However, BACE1 protein decreased in 10 µM AA + DHT versus DHT alone (p = 0.0132). Immunoblot revealed reduced amyloid precursor protein (APP) in 10 µM AA versus control (p = 0.0057) and 10 µM versus 5 µM (p = 0.0263). APP was reduced in 10 µM AA + DHT versus control (p = 0.0015) and versus DHT alone (p = 0.0467). LRP1 and BDNF were significantly reduced with 10 µM AA versus 5 µM AA (p = 0.0092 and p = 0.0081), while synaptophysin decreased in 10 µM AA + DHT versus DHT alone (p = 0.0049). BDNF also declined in 10 µM AA + DHT compared to 5 µM AA + DHT (p = 0.0301). PGC1α mRNA increased in AA + DHT versus DHT alone (p = 0.0332). MitoTracker analysis showed reduced fluorescence with 5 µM AA alone but increased fluorescence with 5 µM AA + DHT relative to control and DHT (p = 0.0019; p < 0.0001), while 10 µM AA + DHT reduced fluorescence compared to 5 µM AA + DHT (p = 0.0003).AA, alone or combined with DHT, disrupts key pathways involved in neuronal health, amyloid processing, and mitochondrial function. These findings suggest a potential mechanistic link between AA treatment and cognitive impairment.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42510681 is a review article
To explore how vacuolar protein sorting 35 (VPS35) regulates astrocytic inflammation, impairs retinal endothelial function and drives early diabetic retinopathy (DR) neurovascular lesions in diabetic mouse model.A streptozotocin (STZ)-induced C57BL/6J diabetic mouse model was established. Retinal tissues were collected from 0 to 12wk after successful induction of diabetes. Protein expression levels of VPS35, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), excitatory amino acid transporter 2 (EAAT2), leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2), and vascular endothelium-associated proteins were assessed by Western blotting (WB). The interaction between VPS35 and LRRK2 was verified by co-immunoprecipitation. Vascular leakage and astrocyte activation were evaluated by fundus fluorescein angiography and retinal flat-mount immunofluorescence staining. Primary astrocytes were cultured in vitro and subjected to high-glucose stimulation or VPS35 knockdown. Cell activation, expression of glutamate transport-associated proteins, and inflammatory cytokine expression were examined. Supernatant fluid from the primary astrocytes was applied to human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) to assess cell migration, proliferation, and tube formation capacity. The expression of proteins related to the nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB) pathway was also evaluated.In diabetic mice, retinal VPS35 protein expression exhibited a progressive decline beginning at 4wk post-diabetes onset, whereas GFAP protein expression increased significantly. By 8wk, marked astrocyte activation was observed, accompanied by retinal microvascular leakage and a reduction in vascular area. In vivo and in vitro experiments further confirmed that under high-glucose conditions, retinal VPS35 and EAAT2 protein levels were markedly decreased, while GFAP and LRRK2 protein levels were significantly elevated. Co-immunoprecipitation verified the physical interaction between VPS35 and LRRK2 in astrocytes. Finally, in vitro experiments demonstrated that both high-glucose stimulation and VPS35 knockdown led to astrocyte activation, upregulation of inflammatory cytokine expression, downregulation of EAAT2 and AMPA receptor subunit GLUA2, and upregulation of LRRK2. Treatment of HUVECs with supernatant fluid from these astrocytes enhanced cell migration but significantly inhibited cell proliferation and tube formation. WB analysis revealed markedly increased levels of NF-κB and phosphorylated NF-κB in the treated HUVECs.During early DR in mice model, decreased retinal VPS35 protein expression induces astrocyte-mediated inflammatory responses and glutamate transport dysfunction. Through the interaction between VPS35 and LRRK2, paracrine inflammatory cytokines subsequently activate the NF-κB signaling pathway in vascular endothelial cells, leading to endothelial dysfunction and further driving DR-associated neurovascular injury. This study provides novel insights into the pathogenesis of DR and highlights the potential of VPS35 as a target for early intervention in DR.International Journal of Ophthalmology Press.
Bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD), a lung disease associated with preterm birth, is characterized by arrested alveolarization and impaired pulmonary vascular growth. Exposure to early-life hyperoxia is a disease-contributing factor, and endothelial determinants of injury versus repair remain incompletely defined. We hypothesized that endothelial-specific loss of Hif-1α during the saccular stage of development would adversely impact lung development and augment injury after hyperoxia exposure. Tamoxifen-inducible endothelial-specific Hif-1α knockout and Hif-1α fl/fl littermates were exposed to room air or 95% O₂ from postnatal day (PND) 1-5, and lungs were analyzed at PND7 and PND21 for morphometry, vascular density, and lung endothelial transcriptomic response. Endothelial Hif-1α deletion had no impact on baseline alveolarization but reduced vascular density under normoxia and significantly worsened hyperoxia-induced alveolar simplification, septal thickening, and vascular rarefaction. Hyperoxia increased endothelial proliferation in both genotypes after 48 hours of recovery in normoxia. Bulk RNA sequencing of the lung endothelial cells revealed a shared hyperoxia injury program (e.g., Inhba, Serpine1 induction; Esm1, Gpihbp1, Car2 suppression). The transcriptomic response in HIF1α ECKO endothelial cells was significantly muted compared to wild-type endothelial cells, lacking induction of Hmox1, Prdx6, and Anxa1. Hif-1α-deficient endothelial cells upregulated Col18a1 and Ackr3 and showed enrichment of TNF-NFκB, TGF-β, and cell-cycle checkpoint pathways, consistent with maladaptive remodeling. Cross-referencing with human single-cell BPD data demonstrated that genes identified in the murine hyperoxia model exhibit conserved but heterogeneous endothelial expression patterns across BPD disease states. These findings identify endothelial Hif-1α as a central determinant of recovery after neonatal hyperoxia exposure.
Microglial dysfunction and aberrant lipid metabolism are emerging as key contributors to Parkinson's disease (PD) pathogenesis. However, the specific role and regulation of lipid droplets (LDs) within microglia remain poorly defined. In this study, we employed MPTP- and LPS-induced PD mouse models and an in vitro system utilizing astrocyte-conditioned medium to model disease-relevant lipid stress and found enhanced LD accumulation in microglia. VPS35 expression was decreased in microglia, correlating with elevated microglial LD levels in PD mouse models. We then performed genetic manipulations (knockdown and overexpression) of VPS35, including the PD-associated D620N mutant, in primary microglia and assessed LD accumulation, phagocytic function, inflammatory responses, and integrated stress pathways. We showed that VPS35 knockdown exacerbated the accumulation of LDs in microglia. Conversely, VPS35 overexpression ameliorated LD formation, improved phagocytic function, and reduced inflammatory and integrated stress responses in microglia. The PD-related VPS35[D620N] mutation abolished these protective effects. We further found that VPS35 interacts with Rab7 to maintain lysosomal function, and the D620N mutation disrupts this interaction, leading to defective LD clearance. Our findings reveal VPS35 dysfunction as a key pathogenic mechanism in PD, where the D620N mutation disrupts microglial lipid handling to promote disease progression, thereby nominating VPS35 restoration as a promising therapeutic strategy.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
The milk fat-to-protein ratio (FPR) is an important indicator of milk quality and a useful biomarker of metabolic status in dairy cows. This study used functional single-step genome-wide association analysis (ssGWAS) incorporating performance records from 502,781 first-parity Iranian Holstein cows and SNP genotypes from 2,187 Holstein bulls to investigate the genomic architecture underlying FPR variation in this population. The heritability of FPR was estimated at 0.24. Genome-wide scanning identified 18 significant SNPs on BTA14 and 121 positional candidate genes located within ± 100 kb of these variants. Because FPR is commonly used as a biomarker for metabolic disorders such as ketosis, we additionally performed Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment analysis to identify biological pathways and genes potentially involved in subclinical ketosis risk. The major enriched pathways were related to lipid metabolism, energy utilization, and acylglycerol biosynthesis. Several significant SNPs-particularly ARS-BFGL-NGS-4939, ARS-BFGL-NGS-94,706, ARS-BFGL-NGS-103,064, ARS-BFGL-NGS-3122, and Hapmap29758-BTC-003619-were located near key functional genes such as DGAT1, CYP11B1, and GPIHBP1, which have known roles in these pathways and may contribute to FPR variability and susceptibility to subclinical ketosis. Overall, our findings provide new insight into the genomic basis of FPR and offer valuable direction for breeding strategies aimed at reducing ketosis prevalence in Iranian Holstein cattle.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
In yeast and humans, the conserved DENN-domain (Differentially Expressed in Normal and Neoplastic tissue) protein Avl9 is thought to play roles in membrane traffic and secretion, but its precise function remains poorly defined. Since DENN-containing proteins are associated with Rab GTPase function, we sought to understand Avl9 function in the context of Rab regulation. Here, we show that Avl9 localizes to peripheral punctae that are consistent with secretory vesicles. Moreover, we demonstrate genetic interactions and co-localization between Avl9 and numerous Rabs in the secretory and endosomal pathways, suggesting a potential function at the interface of secretion and recycling. Consistent with this role, avl9▵ results in defective recycling of the endosomal cargo Snc1 but does not alter plasma membrane delivery of an endocytosis-defective Snc1EN- mutant, suggesting that Avl9 is not solely involved in secretory traffic from the trans-Golgi network to the plasma membrane. The avl9▵ recycling defect is exacerbated by additional loss of RCY1 or SNX4, but not VPS35. Each of these three genes contributes to a distinct endosomal recycling pathway, indicating that Avl9 acts in conjunction with multiple recycling pathways.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
The genetic architecture of Parkinson's disease varies considerably across ancestries, yet most previous genetic studies have focused on individuals of European ancestry. We aimed to characterise the distribution of established Parkinson's disease causal variants, as well as risk-associated variants with clinical implications (ie, variants in genes involved in pathways targeted by ongoing clinical trials), across ancestrally diverse populations.We conducted a multi-ancestry, observational, cross-sectional genetic study using retrospective data from the Global Parkinson's Genetics Program (GP2) release 11 (released in December, 2025). The study investigated causal and risk variants, including copy number variants, in established Parkinson's disease and parkinsonism-associated genes, following the recommendations of the Movement Disorder Society (MDS) Task Force on the Nomenclature of Genetic Movement Disorders, including GBA1, LRRK2, SNCA, VPS35, RAB32, PINK1, PRKN, PARK7, ATP13A2, DCTN1, DNAJC6, FBXO7, JAM2, RAB39B, SLC20A2, SYNJ1, VPS13C, and WDR45. Individuals with Parkinson's disease were diagnosed based on established clinical criteria, including the Parkinson's UK Brain Bank or MDS diagnostic criteria (or both), and healthy control participants were defined as individuals without evidence of neurodegenerative disease and unrelated to participants with Parkinson's disease. We analysed genome and exome sequencing and array genotyping data of 99 783 individuals, including 58 559 individuals with Parkinson's disease and 41 224 controls, from 11 genetically inferred ancestries (African, African admixed, Ashkenazi Jewish, Latino and Indigenous people of the Americas, central Asian, complex admixture, east Asian, European, Finnish, Middle Eastern, and south Asian), defined using reference population-based ancestry inference methods. We calculated allele frequencies for all investigated variants in individuals with Parkinson's disease and controls, both overall and stratified by ancestry.Approximately 29% of individuals (29 001 of 99 783; 15 443 [26·4%] of 58 559 individuals with Parkinson's disease and 13 558 [32·9%] of 41 224 controls) were from under-represented populations (ie, non-European and non-Ashkenazi Jewish). Our findings indicated both shared genetic contributors across ancestries as well as ancestry-specific differences in variant frequencies and the spectrum of variants within Parkinson's disease-associated genes. Overall, 1217 (2·1%) of 58 559 individuals with Parkinson's disease carried a causal variant, with substantial variations across ancestries ranging from ten (0·4%) of 2844 African individuals to 251 (10·7%) of 2343 individuals of Ashkenazi Jewish ancestry. Risk variants in GBA1 and LRRK2 were identified in 6893 (11·8%) of 58 559 individuals with Parkinson's disease and 3578 (8·7%) of 41 224 controls. GBA1 risk variants were most frequent overall and identified across all ancestries, but variant frequency and spectra differed substantially between ancestries, from 195 (4·1%) of 4773 in the east Asian ancestry group to 1505 (52·9%) of 2844 in the African ancestry group. Similarly, LRRK2 causal and risk variants showed ancestry-specific enrichment, with the highest frequencies of causal variants in the Ashkenazi Jewish (250 [10·7%] of 2343) and Middle Eastern (59 [4·4%] of 1347) ancestry groups, whereas risk variants were predominantly identified in the east Asian ancestry group (601 [12·6%] of 4773). Carriers of biallelic causal variants in PRKN, commonly including deletions and duplications, were also identified across all ancestries except Ashkenazi Jewish; the highest frequency was in the Middle Eastern ancestry group (17 [1·3%] of 1347), and frequencies in all other ancestries were less than 1%.This large-scale, multi-ancestry genetic study offers crucial insights into the population-specific genetic architecture of Parkinson's disease. Whereas clinical trials targeting GBA1 and LRRK2 variant carriers are primarily performed in Europe and the USA, increased ancestral diversity in Parkinson's disease research will be crucial to improve diagnostic accuracy, enhance our understanding of disease mechanisms across populations, and ensure equitable application of and access to emerging genetically informed therapies.Aligning Science Across Parkinson's (ASAP) through the Global Parkinson's Genetics Program (GP2).Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42450248 is a review article
Glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored high-density lipoprotein binding protein 1 (GPIHBP1) autoantibody syndrome is a rare autoimmune cause of severe hypertriglyceridemia and acute pancreatitis.We report 2 patients who achieved long-term remission through distinct therapeutic approaches.We report 2 patients who achieved long-term remission through distinct therapeutic approaches.Case 1 received prednisolone, azathioprine, and hydroxychloroquine, maintaining remission and experienced an uneventful pregnancy while continuing hydroxychloroquine monotherapy for 4 years. Case 2, who suffered recurrent pancreatitis, was treated with rituximab and achieved sustained remission without maintenance therapy for 3 years.Epitope mapping identified distinct antibody epitopes in the 2 cases. The antibody from Case 1 targeted the Ly6/uPAR (LU) domain of GPIHBP1, whereas the antibody from Case 2 recognized an epitope involving not only the LU domain but also the region bordering the acidic domain.This is the first report demonstrating successful long-term remission of GPIHBP1 autoantibody syndrome, including during pregnancy. The clinical significance of epitope heterogeneity among GPIHBP1 autoantibodies remains to be clarified.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) frequently triggers acute lung injury (ALI) via sympathetic overactivation. We aimed to investigate the neuroinflammatory mechanisms driving this brain-lung crosstalk and evaluate targeted neuromodulatory interventions via the mechanosensor PIEZO2.We utilized an ICH mouse model and norepinephrine (NE)-stimulated MLE12 cells. Pathological mechanisms were explored using transcriptomics, calcium imaging, and Vps35 knockdown. Therapeutic efficacies were assessed via central sympathetic blockade (stellate ganglion block, SGB) and peripheral PIEZO2 inhibition (D-GsMTx4).NE release exacerbated neurogenic ALI post-ICH. Mechanistically, NE upregulated VPS35, which simultaneously promoted PIEZO2 membrane trafficking and impaired ATP2A2-dependent endoplasmic reticulum (ER) calcium clearance. This induced massive intracellular calcium influx, triggering widespread ER stress and NLRP3/GSDMD-mediated pyroptosis in alveolar epithelial cells. Vps35 knockdown attenuated these effects in vitro. Crucially, targeted interventions with SGB or D-GsMTx4 successfully blocked this lethal central-peripheral cascade, alleviating pulmonary pyroptosis and improving in vivo outcomes.Sympathetic overactivation drives neurogenic ALI post-ICH via the VPS35/PIEZO2-ER stress-pyroptosis axis. Dual-node neuromodulation (SGB or PIEZO2 inhibition) offers a promising therapeutic strategy for secondary multiorgan complications following acute brain injury.© 2026 The Author(s). CNS Neuroscience & Therapeutics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
A 16-year-old boy from consanguineous parents, carrying a homozygous USH2A mutation and multiple congenital anomalies, presented with distal esophageal squamous cell carcinoma - likely the first such case documented. This report underscores the value of genetic testing and multidisciplinary management, demonstrating feasible surgery-only treatment in a frail adolescent with an expanded USH2A phenotype.Copyright: © 2026 Journal of Indian Association of Pediatric Surgeons.
Hypoxia is a defining feature of the tumor microenvironment and a key driver of malignant progression through transcriptional reprogramming of metabolic, angiogenic, and survival pathways. In this study, hypoxia-induced molecular responses were investigated in human hepatocellular carcinoma (HepG2) and breast adenocarcinoma (MCF-7) cells using cobalt(II) chloride (CoCl2) as a hypoxia mimetic. Cell viability profiling was performed to determine the optimal experimental concentration, followed by quantitative PCR analysis of hypoxia-related genes and miRNA-gene interaction network analysis. Cell viability profiling identified 100 µM CoCl2 as the optimal condition for downstream analyses. Quantitative PCR revealed robust induction of HIF-1α in both cell lines, indicating activation of hypoxic signaling. However, downstream responses differed markedly between cell types. MCF-7 cells exhibited significant upregulation of SLC2A1 and increased VEGFA and NFKB1 expression, consistent with activation of glycolytic and pro-angiogenic pathways. In contrast, HepG2 cells showed limited downstream transcriptional engagement despite elevated HIF1A expression. Furthermore, miRNA-gene interaction analysis revealed a dense regulatory network in MCF-7 cells, whereas HepG2 cells displayed a more restricted, VEGFA-centered miRNA profile. These findings demonstrate that chemical hypoxia induces cell-type-specific transcriptional and post-transcriptional responses in breast and liver cancer cells. The results suggest that miRNA-mediated regulation may contribute to differential tumor adaptation to hypoxic stress and highlight the importance of cellular context in hypoxia-associated signaling pathways.
This study aimed to assess the association between anxiety and gastric cancer via a bioinformatics approach.Gastric cancer is a major health burden in the world and a threat to human health. Several risk factors, such as genetics, Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection, sex, age, race, unhealthy dietary habits and lifestyle, obesity, and alcohol consumption, are highlighted by researchers.Significantly differentially expressed genes (DEGs) from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database related to gastric cancer were validated by the GeneCards database. The validated DEGs were compared with gastric cancer central genes from the "Disease" database to explore critical DEGs. The critical DEGs were searched in the anxiety-related genes from GeneCards to find the common genes between anxiety and gastric cancer. The common genes were evaluated via The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Kaplan-Meier Plotter analysis.Among 658 significant DEGs, CHEK2, SLC2A1, EZH2, STAT1, and MMP9 were identified as gastric cancer-related critical genes common with the dysregulated genes in anxiety. Up-regulation of these genes was confirmed via GEO and TCGA analyses.It can be concluded that there is clear association between anxiety and gastric cancer. Anxiety shares dysregulated genes with gastric cancer It can be suggested that, there is a possible molecular link between them.
Heatwaves (HW), intensified by global warming, pose significant risks to children's respiratory health because their lungs are still developing. Club cells, as key airway epithelial stem cells, are pivotal for repairing airway epithelium after lung damage. However, the role and repairing capacity of club cells following HW-induced lung injury in juvenile mice has not been evaluated. In this study, 4-6-week-old male C57BL/6J wide-type mice and conditional club cell-specific Lkb1 and Slc2a1 (the gene of Glut1) knockout mice were exposed to HW (36 °C, 3 h/day for 21 days) and normal temperature as controls. We observed that HW exposure induced lung injury, characterized by damaged pulmonary function, pathological change of lung tissue, elevated pro-inflammatory cytokines and decreased anti-inflammatory CC16 in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF). The expression of Lkb1 in both lung tissue and club cells was decreased after HW exposure. Club cell-specific Lkb1 knockout exacerbated HW-induced lung injury, and suppressed the expression of club cells proliferation marker Ki67, ciliated differentiation marker ACT, and promoted goblet cells metaplasia. Mechanistically, transcriptomics of club cells revealed that Lkb1 deficiency upregulated Slc2a1(Glut1) expression and activated mTORC1 signaling. Crucially, Slc2a1 knockout in club cells attenuated HW-induced lung injury and restored the regeneration and repair function of club cells. In conclusion, HW could induce lung injury in juvenile mice and inhibit the function of club cells. Lkb1-Glut1 axis in club cells is involved in impaired airway epithelial repair following HW, highlighting the evidence of stem cell toxicology under HW.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
The Mediterranean diet is associated with reduced cardiometabolic risk, yet its physiological effects during pregnancy and its impact on placental metabolism remain incompletely understood. This study aimed to determine whether maternal adherence to a Mediterranean diet during pregnancy influences placental lipid metabolism and signalling pathways involved in nutrient handling, tissue remodelling, and inflammation, and to assess their relationship with pregnancy outcomes. Placental samples and clinical outcome data were analysed from pregnant women participating in an unblinded randomized clinical trial of a Mediterranean diet intervention. Placental fatty acid composition was quantified, and the expression of genes and signalling pathways involved in lipid metabolism, nutrient transport, inflammation, and tissue remodelling was evaluated. Maternal adherence to a Mediterranean diet during pregnancy was associated with significant alterations in placental fatty acid composition, including reduced C18:0 and C24:0 and increased C18:1n9c, C20:3n6, and C22:0, with lower total saturated fatty acids and higher monounsaturated fatty acids. Placental expression of lipid metabolism regulators ALOX15 and PPARγ was reduced, alongside downregulation of AKT and p38 MAPK signalling pathways. Placentas from mothers adhering to the Mediterranean diet also showed lower expression of amino acid and glucose transporters SLC3A2 and SLC2A1, as well as altered inflammatory and extracellular matrix remodelling markers, including decreased SOCS3 and GHR and increased PAI1 and MMP3. Maternal adherence to a Mediterranean diet during pregnancy modifies placental fatty acid composition and regulates pathways involved in lipid handling, nutrient transport, inflammation, and tissue remodelling, providing insight into mechanisms linking maternal diet with placental metabolic function.© 2026. The Author(s).
Background/Objectives: To evaluate whether global myocardial glucose metabolism and its regional heterogeneity, quantified using dynamic 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG PET), are associated with cardiovascular outcomes in patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy. Methods: The analytic cohort included 120 patients with suspected ischemic cardiomyopathy who underwent thallium-201 perfusion single photon emission tomography and dynamic FDG PET. Global myocardial metabolic rate of glucose (MRGlu) and coefficient of variation in FDG uptake were calculated from scar-excluded myocardium. Major adverse cardiac events (MACEs) were assessed over a median follow-up of 2.5 years. Public myocardial gene-expression datasets (GSE116250 and GSE135055) were analyzed to explore glucose metabolism-related transcriptional patterns relevant to the imaging findings. Results: Fifty-one patients (42.5%) experienced MACEs. Lower global MRGlu was independently associated with improved MACE-free survival (hazard ratio 0.48, 95% confidence interval 0.27-0.87). Among patients with low global MRGlu, a high coefficient of variation predicted favorable outcomes (hazard ratio 0.35, 95% confidence interval 0.18-0.68), indicating beneficial metabolic heterogeneity. Analysis of external gene-expression data demonstrated consistent downregulation of glucose-handling genes in end-stage heart failure across ischemic and dilated etiologies. A higher expression of SLC2A1, HK1, IRS1, and PKM was associated with faster progression to transplantation. Conclusions: In ischemic cardiomyopathy, dynamic FDG PET-derived quantification of myocardial glucose metabolism provides prognostic information beyond traditional viability assessment. Low global metabolism combined with preserved metabolic heterogeneity helps identify patients with favorable clinical outcomes.
Background/Objectives: Glucose transporter type 1 deficiency syndrome (GLUT1DS) is a rare neurometabolic disorder with an expanding clinical spectrum, including mild and non-classical presentations. We report a boy with severe transient neonatal hyperkalemia, bilateral congenital cataracts, and later subtle neurological and neurocognitive symptoms, in whom genomic testing supported the diagnosis of mild GLUT1DS. Methods: This single-patient case report describes clinical follow-up from birth to nine years of age, including neurological, metabolic, neuropsychological, imaging, and genetic investigations. Whole-exome sequencing using next-generation sequencing technology was performed. Results: The patient required intensive care immediately after birth because of severe transient hyperkalemia of unclear etiology. Bilateral congenital cataracts were surgically corrected during infancy. Later, he developed two brief seizure episodes, reduced exercise tolerance, episodic fatigue, attentional difficulties, motor restlessness, and mild graphomotor impairment. Neuropsychological assessment showed overall average intellectual functioning, below-average verbal abilities, low-average non-verbal abilities, and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder. Repeated metabolic investigations, electroencephalography, and brain magnetic resonance imaging were unrevealing. Whole-exome sequencing identified an apparently de novo heterozygous SLC2A1 variant, NM_006516.4.1333_1335del, p.(Phe445del), supporting the diagnosis of mild GLUT1DS. Because of the mild phenotype and preserved everyday functioning, ketogenic diet therapy was not initiated. Conclusions: This case highlights the diagnostic challenges of mild GLUT1DS and the value of genomic testing in children with unexplained neurological or neurocognitive symptoms despite normal routine investigations. Although neonatal hyperkalemia and GLUT1DS coexisted in this patient, current evidence is insufficient to establish a causal relationship.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) exhibits marked metabolic plasticity, but the effects of luteolin on glucose utilisation in PDAC cells remain unclear. We integrated predicted luteolin targets with bulk and single-cell transcriptomic data, weighted gene co-expression network analysis, machine-learning screening, protein-protein interaction analysis, independent-cohort evaluation, and survival analysis. SLC2A1, MET, and LGALS3 were prioritised as PDAC-associated candidates. In GSE71729, the three-gene expression score was strongly associated with a glycolytic programme, and this association remained robust after removal of overlapping genes from the pathway gene sets. In ASPC-1 and PANC-1 cells, luteolin reduced cell viability, colony formation, migration, invasion, and glucose uptake, accompanied by lower GLUT1, p-MET, and LGALS3 protein signals. Molecular docking and molecular dynamics further supported predicted structural compatibility between luteolin and GLUT1. These findings identify reduced GLUT1 abundance and glucose uptake as prominent metabolic features of the PDAC cellular response to luteolin and provide a basis for further investigation of glucose-dependent PDAC states.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42501531
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDA) is among the deadliest malignancies, driven by metastatic progression and profound cellular heterogeneity. We previously identified glutathione S-transferase theta 1 (GSTT1) as a regulator of a slow-cycling, highly metastatic tumor cell population, suggesting that GSTT1High cells may possess stem-like properties. Here, we define the functional and molecular features of this subpopulation in metastatic PDA. Using a mCherry-tagged Gstt1 reporter system in metastatic murine PDAC cells, we enriched for Gstt1High cells and observed increased tumor sphere formation, accompanied by upregulation of stemness-associated genes including PROM1 (CD133) and activation of Wnt and FGF signaling pathways. In human PDA models, CD133HighGSTT1High cells exhibited enhanced tumor sphere initiation and expansion compared to other populations, defining a maximal stem-like state. Notably, sensitivity to FGFR inhibitors was observed only under tumor sphere conditions, highlighting a context-dependent therapeutic vulnerability. Mechanistically, FGFR3 expression correlated with GSTT1 and CD133 levels, and FGF signaling was required to sustain this state. GSTT1 knockdown reduced CD133 protein levels, impaired tumor sphere formation, and altered sensitivity to FGFR inhibition. These findings were largely recapitulated in patient-derived PDA organoids, where GSTT1 and PROM1 co-expression predicted increased tumor sphere formation and enhanced response to the multi-kinase inhibitor Nintedanib. Together, these results identify a GSTT1HighCD133High stem-like subpopulation in metastatic PDA and identify an FGFR-dependent signaling axis that sustains this state, representing a potential therapeutic vulnerability.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Acral melanoma (AM) exhibits significant intratumoral heterogeneity, but its tumor microenvironment (TME) and immune regulation remain unclear. This study aims to dissect TME heterogeneity and establish a prognostic model based on key cell subpopulations.We collected AM single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and bulk RNA-seq data from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) and the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). Unsupervised clustering, CellChat, and Scissor analysis were performed to characterize cellular heterogeneity, cell-cell communication, and prognosis-related cell subpopulations. Kaplan-Meier analysis was used to assess the prognostic value of key genes, which were further validated by multiplex immunohistochemistry (mIHC).In AM, Mel_C2, C7, and C9 with high SEMA6A and KIT expression were strongly linked to poor prognosis. We further identified a senescent fibroblast subpopulation (sCAF_CDKN2A) characterized by high fibroblast senescence signature (FSS) scores. Integrating Scissor analysis of fibroblast subtypes with bulk prognostic data, we identified COL3A1, VCAN, and KIT as prognosis-associated genes upregulated in poor-outcome-related fibroblast subsets. Cell-cell communication analysis revealed that sCAF_CDKN2A engages in an immunosuppressive network, interacting with regulatory T cells (Tregs) via MIF signaling and receiving signals from exhausted CD8+ T cells through PPIA-BSG interactions. Using transcription factor expression patterns from these fibroblast subtypes, we constructed a prognostic model that effectively stratified patients into distinct risk groups with significant differences in overall survival (OS). mIHC confirmed significantly higher protein levels of SEMA6A and COL3A1 in tumor tissues compared to matched normal tissues.We established a novel prognostic model for AM and identified sCAF_CDKN2A as an immunosuppressive senescent fibroblast subpopulation driving poor prognosis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The progression of carotid plaques is closely associated with immune dysregulation. This study aimed to identify key natural killer (NK) cell-related genes and to explore their immune microenvironment using bulk and single-cell transcriptomic data.Differential expression analysis was performed based on the transcriptomic dataset GSE43292. Key gene modules were identified using weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA). NK cell-related hub genes were further screened using Lasso and logistic regression, followed by validation in an external cohort. The expression profile of IGHG1 and intercellular communication of NK cells were assessed using single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq). Pseudotime trajectory analysis was conducted with Monocle 2, and IGHG1-associated signaling pathways were explored through gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA).Four candidate genes were screened, and IGHG1 was the only independent risk factor. IGHG1 was significantly upregulated in advanced-stage plaques and demonstrated high predictive performance (AUC = 0.831; external AUC = 0.911). In the scRNA-seq dataset analyzed in this study, IGHG1 signal was mainly detected in the annotated NK-cell cluster. However, because IGHG1 is canonically associated with B-lineage and plasma cells, this observation should be interpreted cautiously in the context of SingleR/CellMarker-based annotation. Two NK-related subclusters were identified, showing inferred intercellular interactions predominantly involving the PPIA-BSG ligand-receptor pair. Pseudotime analysis revealed a transient high expression of IGHG1 during the transition from precursor to mature NK cells. GSEA indicated that IGHG1 was involved in the T cell receptor signaling pathway and NK cell-mediated cytotoxicity pathway.IGHG1 is a key gene closely associated with the progression of carotid plaques and was linked to NK cell-related immune features in our analyses. Given the canonical association of IGHG1 with B-lineage/plasma cells and the limitations of automatic annotation, its cellular origin and functional relevance require further validation.Copyright: © 2026 Shen et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Usher syndrome 3A (USH3A), caused by mutations in the CLRN1 gene, leads to retinitis pigmentosa and sensorineural hearing loss. While CLRN1's role in inner ear pathology is established, its contribution to retinal degeneration remains poorly understood.Retinal organoids derived from a USH3A patient were analyzed using single-cell RNA sequencing and multi-electrode array recording. CLRN1 expression was mapped in human fetal retina and organoids. We assessed the structural, transcriptional, and functional impact of CLRN1 variants on Müller cells and photoreceptors, and evaluated idebenone as a potential targeted therapy.CLRN1 was specifically expressed in Müller cells. CLRN1 variants induced severe retinal degeneration, characterized by outer nuclear layer thinning, impaired photoreceptor gene expression, activated apoptosis, and diminished electrophysiological function. Mechanistically, these variants caused mitochondrial dysfunction in Müller cells, which triggered secondary mitochondrial impairment, oxidative stress, and apoptosis in photoreceptors. Idebenone treatment partially rescued these deficits.CLRN1-related mitochondrial impairment in Müller cells contributes to the pathogenesis of retinitis pigmentosa in USH3A. These findings identify Müller cell mitochondrial dysfunction as a key disease mechanism and highlight potential therapeutic targets.© 2026 The Author(s). CNS Neuroscience & Therapeutics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) is a highly aggressive, molecularly heterogeneous biliary tract malignancy and the second most common primary liver cancer, and it has an increasing global incidence and persistently poor prognosis. Recent updates of international guidelines, including those from the NCCN, ESMO, EASL, CSCO, BSG, and Japanese societies, along with rapid advances in precision oncology, have substantially changed the clinical management of CCA. This review systematically compares current global guidelines, highlighting both areas of consensus and regional differences in epidemiology, risk factors, screening strategies, diagnostic approaches, pathological and molecular classification, staging systems, surgical indications, systemic therapy, and multidisciplinary management. This review also summarizes recent advances in molecular diagnostics, including next-generation sequencing, liquid biopsy, circulating tumor DNA, extracellular vesicles, artificial intelligence-assisted imaging, radiomics, and emerging prognostic biomarkers. The evolving roles of immune checkpoint inhibitors, molecularly targeted therapies against FGFR2, IDH1, HER2, BRAF, NTRK, and MSI-H/dMMR, liver transplantation, locoregional treatment, and conversion (translational) therapy are also discussed. Finally, this review addresses current challenges, including drug resistance, limited access to molecular testing, regional disparities in healthcare resources, and the lack of universally accepted screening strategies. By integrating updated guideline recommendations with the latest clinical evidence, this review provides a comprehensive reference for evidence-based clinical decision-making and future translational research in CCA.
Six agri-food side streams, linseed press cake (LPC), brewer's spent grains (BSG), bread residues (BR), apple pomace (AP), sugar beet pulp (SBP), and acid cheese whey (CW), were compared as feedstocks for compound-resolved Monascus ruber SRZ112-m22 pigment production under submerged (SmF) and liquid-surface fermentation (LSF). Authentic-standard HPLC quantified five azaphilones across days 3-8. Apple-pomace hydrolysate gave the highest measured total titer in SmF (1042.85 mg/L, day 7), whereas bread-residue hydrolysate was optimal in LSF (504.65 mg/L, day 6), demonstrating strong substrate-by-cultivation-mode control of pigment yield and profile. Purified monascin, monascorubrin, and rubropunctamine bound AChE, BChE, MAO-A, and PPAR-gamma, but binding was not interpreted as therapeutic efficacy. Post-cultivation liquid caused only slight bakery coloration at 40% replacement and inconsistent antioxidant changes, identifying concentration, process, and safety constraints. This within-strain comparison links compound-specific fermentation kinetics to preliminary molecular and food-matrix screening while supporting waste valorization consistent with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals SDG 12.3.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Pesticides are major environmental pollutants, and the swim bladder is highly sensitive to chemical stressors. However, the effects of spirodiclofen on swim bladder and the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood despite its widespread environmental detection. In this study, zebrafish embroys were exposed to spirodiclofen to evaluate its impacts on the swim bladder. At 120 hpf, complete failure of swim bladder inflation was observed in the 0.146 mg/L and 0.300 mg/L treatment groups. Swim bladder area decreased by 40.3% and 52.8% (p < 0.01), and locomotor activity was markedly impaired, with total distance reduced by 87.4% and 95.5%, respectively (p < 0.01). RT-qPCR analysis revealed downregulate genes in Hedgehog and Wnt signaling pathways, as well as key developmental markers of swim bladder formation. Spirodiclofen also disrupted the prolactin pathway and significantly reduce Na⁺/K⁺-ATPase activity (p < 0.05), suggesting impaired ion regulation during inflation. Integrative GGE biplot analysis, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics simulations identified Wnt5b, Atp1b2, and Elovl1a as potential toxicity targets. Environmental monitoring further revealed that the risk quotients (RQ)> 1 at most sampling sites, underscoring the ecological relevance of these findings. Overall, this study provides mechanistic evidence for spirodiclofen-induced swim bladder toxicity and supports ecological risk assessment and the design of safer alternatives.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Nearly 11 years after T-VEC became the first oncolytic virus approved in a major market, the closest candidate to follow it-Replimune's RP1, now facing an FDA advisory committee-remains a locally injected herpesvirus for melanoma, underscoring how little the field has advanced. Researchers blame a stack of unresolved obstacles-flawed trial designs, mistimed drug combinations, tumor defenses, such as hypoxia, and the inability to deliver most viruses intravenously-even as smarter sequencing, neoadjuvant approaches, and a bladder-cancer virus near approval hint at renewed momentum.©2026 American Association for Cancer Research.
Inherited ocular disorders are a leading cause of early-onset visual impairment, particularly in populations with high consanguinity such as Iran, where a substantial proportion of affected individuals remain without a molecular diagnosis after conventional evaluation. We aimed to determine the diagnostic yield and variant spectrum of whole-exome sequencing (WES) in Iranian probands with congenital or early-onset ocular disorders that were genetically unresolved by prior testing.Thirty unrelated probands were recruited consecutively (July-September 2024). Genomic DNA underwent exome capture (Agilent SureSelect V7) and paired-end sequencing (Illumina NovaSeq 6000). Reads were cleaned with SOAPnuke, aligned with BWA-MEM, and variants were called with GATK HaplotypeCaller and DeepVariant, filtered by GATK VQSR, and annotated against public and Iranian-specific databases (GEMIRAN, IRANOM). Variants were classified per ACMG/AMP criteria. Diagnostic yield was defined as the proportion of probands with a causative or candidate variant concordant with phenotype.A causative or strong candidate variant concordant with the phenotype was identified in 21 of 30 probands (diagnostic yield 70.0%; 95% CI 50.6-85.3%). Pathogenic or likely-pathogenic variants were found in established genes including ABCA4, USH2A, RP1, CRB1, CEP290, GUCY2D, CYP1B1 and TYR. Among the identified genotypes, 54% were homozygous and 12% hemizygous (X-linked), consistent with consanguinity in 11/30 (36.7%) families; 35% were single heterozygous findings in autosomal-recessive genes, interpreted as incomplete genotypes pending detection of a second allele. Onset was infantile in 73% of probands.WES is an effective first-tier test for congenital and early-onset ocular disorders in the Iranian population, resolving roughly 70% of previously undiagnosed probands. Single-allele findings in recessive genes indicate that complementary copy-number and structural-variant analysis, deep-intronic assessment, periodic reanalysis, and reflex whole-genome sequencing are needed to maximise yield and support accurate genetic counselling.© 2026 The Authors.
This study aimed to evaluate the effect of different extraction conditions on the recovery of phenolic compounds from brewers' spent grain (BSG) and their antioxidant capacity. A Plackett-Burman design (PBD) was first applied to identify the key variables influencing the extraction process, followed by response surface methodology (RSM) to optimize the conditions for maximizing phenolic compound yield and antioxidant activity. The optimized extraction parameters included a drying temperature of 50°C, a liquid/solid ratio of 56.5 mL/g, and an extraction temperature of 69.7°C. Experimental validation confirmed that the predicted values for total phenolic content (2.68 mg AGE/g dm) and antioxidant capacities (1.20 mg TE/g dm for DPPH and 5.81 mg TE/g dm for ABTS) were in agreement with experimental data within a 95% confidence level, demonstrating the reliability of the models used. Despite the high phenolic content and antioxidant activity, the extracts showed no antimicrobial effect against Escherichia coli O157:H7 or Listeria innocua. These findings highlight the potential of BSG as a source of antioxidants, reinforcing its possible applications in the food, packaging, pharmaceutical, and cosmetic industries as a natural additive. Additionally, optimizing the extraction process contributes to the valorization of this agro-industrial by-product, promoting sustainability and circular economy practices.© 2026 International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.
The growing consumer demand for natural alternatives to synthetic antioxidants has intensified research into plant-based extracts and encapsulation. This study explores, for the first time, the combined use of Eryngium planum extract (EPE) and basil seed gum (BSG) for stabilizing canola oil, focusing on the underexplored factors of wall concentration and core-to-wall ratio. The antioxidant activity of the extract was evaluated using DPPH radical scavenging and β-carotene-linoleic acid bleaching assays. Antioxidant activity increased in a concentration-dependent manner and reached a level comparable to TBHQ at 2000 ppm. Nanocapsules were prepared using BSG at 1% and 2% concentrations and core-to-wall ratios of 1:10 and 1:20. Particle size, polydispersity index (PDI), zeta potential, encapsulation efficiency, and release rate were measured. The smallest particle size (59.8 ± 0.79 nm) and lowest PDI (0.204 ± 0.005) were observed in formulation with 2% BSG and 1:20 ratio, which also showed the highest zeta potential (-36 ± 0.57 mV) and encapsulation efficiency (86.95% ± 0.33%). The highest release rate occurred in the formulation with 1% BSG and 1:10 ratio (BSG1 1:10). Wall concentration exerted a stronger influence on nanocapsule characteristics than the core-to-wall ratio. Oxidative stability testing of canola oil (peroxide and p-anisidine values) indicated that nanocapsules containing the extract were more effective in inhibiting lipid oxidation than the free extract. The BSG1 1:10 sample demonstrated the highest antioxidant performance. Overall, these findings highlight that EPE nanoencapsulation in BSG at 1% concentration with 1:10 ratio offers a promising natural strategy for enhancing canola oil oxidative stability.© 2026 The Author(s). Food Science & Nutrition published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42555659 is a review article
Mood and psychotic disorders are associated with disrupted circadian rhythms in sleep and activity. While mood and psychosis risk-associated genes (MPRGs) have been linked with sleep and circadian phenotypes, their contributions to molecular clock pathways and cellular circadian rhythms remain unknown.To understand how MPRGs affect temporal dynamics and contribute to circadian rhythms in transcription across the genome, we knocked down expression of ARNTL, ANK3, CACNA1C, or TCF4 in human iPSC-derived neuronal precursor cells (NPCs) from healthy donors. Gene expression was examined serially over 24 h using whole-transcriptome RNA sequencing. Rhythm and pathway analyses were performed to identify rhythmic genes, and gene sets impacted by MPRG knockdown using small interfering RNA (siRNA).Each siRNA distinctly altered phase and/or amplitude of rhythmic genes. Knockdown of ARNTL resulted in widespread loss of rhythms in core clock and other genes but also caused unexpected gains in rhythm. CACNA1C knockdown increased the number of rhythmic genes. ANK3 and TCF4 knockdown had modest effects on gain/loss of rhythm, but caused significant phase shifts. Functional analyses revealed widespread changes in rhythmic genes previously implicated in mood and psychotic disorders, including synaptic transmission, cellular stress response, and gated ion channels.Our findings are the first to indicate MPRGs contribute widely to neuronal circadian rhythms across the transcriptome. Altered rhythms may disrupt biological pathways implicated across a range of psychiatric disorders.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Myotonic Dystrophy type 1 (DM1) is an autosomal multisystem disorder manifested due to unstable CTG nucleotide repeat expansion within the 3'-untranslated region of the dystrophia myotonica protein kinase (DMPK) gene. Although progress towards understanding of molecular pathogenesis in muscle and heart has been made, the pathways that affect the brain in DM1 is fundamentally unknown. In addition, the congenital DM1 manifest even more complicated brain abnormalities. Despite the wealth of existing cellular and animal models, iPSCs based studies are being fostered as they replicate the human model more closely to the disease. In view of this context, we set out to characterize the differentiation potential of congenital DM1 patient derived iPSC lines towards neuronal cells. Using neurogenin2 (NGN2) induced direct reprogramming of iPSCs into neurons and chemically defined media-induced neural induction protocol, we find that congenital DM1 mutant iPSC derived neurons exhibited precocious differentiation, as evidenced by their expression of pan-neuronal markers TUJ1 and Map2, along with increased processes extension and neurite length. Moreover, unbiased RNA sequencing analyses and qPCR validation revealed precocious and enhanced expression of several neurogenic transcription factors including, Ascl1, NeuroG2, and NeuroD1. Furthermore, immunofluorescence imaging of MBNL1 and MBNL2, RNA-splicing factors, displayed enhanced nuclear aggregations, a hallmark of the DM1 disease, in the mutant lines. Moreover, investigation of RNA splicing events identified mis-splicing in many important genes/transcripts including RMST, ANK3 and MBD1 during the neural conversion of congenital DM1 lines. These studies reveal novel paradigms that may contribute to neurological pathogenesis in CDM1 patients. These studies also provide a strong foundation for future mechanistic investigation aimed at understanding CDM1 pathology and may open new avenues for the development of gene therapy approaches for individuals with DM1.
Liafensine is a triple reuptake inhibitor targeting transporters for serotonin, norepinephrine, and dopamine for treatment-resistant depression (TRD). It did not exhibit efficacy in non-biomarker-selected TRD patients in two Phase 2b studies. We utilized the blood samples from the patients enrolled in these two studies and extracted genomic DNA to conduct a genome‑wide association study aiming to find a biomarker which can predict liafensine response. A single single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP), rs12217173, at ANK3 gene was identified as strongly associated with treatment response to liafensine (p = 6.61 × 10-8) in the discovery set (n = 186) and was further confirmed in the replication sample set (n = 47, p = 0.05, combined p = 1.27 × 10-8). In addition, this SNP was not associated with the efficacy of the duloxetine or escitalopram, suggesting it is a liafensine-specific biomarker. This finding was subsequently confirmed in a prospective clinical study. Thus, this study represents a novel approach to translating precision medicine into psychiatric diseases.© 2026. The Author(s).
Airway epithelial barrier dysfunction is a central feature of asthma pathogenesis, yet the molecular mechanisms by which post-translational modifications regulate epithelial integrity remain incompletely understood. Fucosylation has emerged as a potential regulator of epithelial homeostasis across mucosal tissues.We sought to investigate whether epithelial fucosylation contributes to allergen-induced barrier dysfunction and airway inflammation and to define their underlying mechanisms.Fucosylation levels were assessed in saliva from children with asthma using mass spectrometry. Air-liquid interface epithelial cultures were used to assess barrier function by transepithelial electrical resistance, tight junction protein expression and cytokine release. Transcriptomic analyses were performed to identify dysregulated fucosylation pathways. Fut1 was selectively inhibited in vivo and in vitro using intratracheally delivered AAV6-encoded shRNA. Downstream targets were also evaluated by RNA sequencing.Fucosylation was significantly increased in saliva from children with asthma and in allergen-exposed mouse airways. Pharmacologic inhibition of fucosylation preserved epithelial barrier integrity, maintained junctional organization and reduced allergen-induced epithelial cytokine release. Transcriptomic profiling identified fucosylation as a major upregulated pathway, with increased expression of Fut1, Fut2, Fut7 and Fut9. Epithelial-specific Fut1 knockdown attenuated Th2-driven inflammation, preserved epithelial junctional architecture and suppressed alarmin release. Integrated analyses revealed 56 Fut1-dependent genes enriched in cell-adhesion pathways, including Cdh12, App, Ank3 and Cd9. Fut1-CDH12 protein interaction was confirmed by immunoprecipitation, and FUT1-dependent induction of CDH12 disrupted epithelial junctional organization and barrier function.These findings identify the FUT1-CDH12 axis as a previously unrecognized epithelial mechanism promoting barrier dysfunction and allergic airway inflammation in asthma.© 2026 European Academy of Allergy and Clinical Immunology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Hearing loss (HL) is a common sensory disorder, with syndromic forms accounting for ~30% of genetic cases. Due to phenotypic and genetic heterogeneity, accurate diagnosis remains challenging. Exome sequencing (ES) offers a powerful tool to uncover the underlying genetic causes. This study aimed to investigate the genetic basis of syndromic hearing loss (SHL) in North African Moroccan patients through ES. Seven individuals with suspected SHL were recruited from Hassan II University Hospital, Fez. After clinical and audiological assessments, ES was performed to identify causal genetic variants. Two of the participating individuals had Usher syndrome, and one each had Cornelia de Lange syndrome, Wolfram syndrome, Jervell and Lange-Nielsen syndrome, CHARGE syndrome, and Waardenburg syndrome. The causes of all these syndromes were determined, with pathogenic variants in MYO7A, USH1G, SMC1A, WFS1, KCNQ1, CHD7, and MITF. Across the combined cohort of reported Moroccan SHL cases, variants in CHD7 and MYO7A were among the most frequently observed, while USH1G and MITF variants were rare. This study enhances the understanding of SHL in North Africa, revealing a high level of locus and allelic heterogeneity. Examining disparate populations yields novel insights into the etiology of SHL, which can subsequently enhance genetic diagnosis and tailored management strategies.
Invasive micropapillary carcinoma (IMPC) of the breast, a rare and aggressive subtype, represents a unique morphology of reversed polarity with higher metastatic propensity. Due to the limited availability of experimental models, understanding distinct molecular pathways and potential therapeutic targets remains challenging. This study aimed to establish patient-derived cell cultures (PDCs) from IMPC to generate viable models for in-vitro studies. Tissue samples from five IMPC cases were enzymatically disaggregated using five different cell disaggregation protocols. These cells were characterized using immunofluorescence, short tandem repeats profiling, and real-time assays for tumor marker expression profiles. RNA sequencing was performed and compared with invasive ductal carcinoma, no special type (IDC-NST), to study differential gene expression and cell polarity markers. Two short-term PDCs were successfully established from IMPC samples with an optimized collagenase-based protocol. These cultures showed an immunohistochemical profile consistent with the original tumor tissues and maintained hormone receptor and MUC1 expression status. RNA sequencing of PDCs revealed similar gene expression patterns with matched tumor tissue and revealed upregulated RAP1, MAPK, and PI3K-AKT pathways, when compared with ER/PR-matched IDC. These PDCs also showed different gene expression patterns in cell-polarity associated genes, such as cadherins CDH2, tight junction gene MARVELD2, PAR complex gene PARD6B, and downregulation of the cell polarity CRB2 gene. This study indicated the need for an optimization of cell culture conditions and the feasibility of establishing patient-derived cell cultures from IMPC. These models provide a great tool to study molecular insights, cell polarity, and therapeutic research in a rare breast cancer subtype.© 2026 International Federation of Cell Biology.
Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a major global health concern, with a substantial proportion of cases that remain of undetermined cause. Mutations in genes affecting podocyte structure and function, are increasingly recognized as causes of focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS), a common but highly nonspecific histological pattern of kidney injury, that ultimately lead to CKD.We report the case of a 55-year-old male who presented with hypertension and end-stage renal disease (ESRD) of unknown etiology. He had a progressive decline in kidney function and proteinuria beginning in young adulthood. A kidney biopsy showed a pattern of FSGS. A comprehensive workup did not identify autoimmune or inflammatory causes. Whole-exome sequencing detected a previously undescribed heterozygous CRB2 mutation (c.1037G > T, p.Cys346Phe), predicted to be deleterious.Animal models of CRB2 deprivation in podocytes showed progression toward FSGS. In humans, CRB2 mutations have previously been linked to severe early-onset nephrotic syndrome, typically in homozygous or compound heterozygous states. This is the first report of an adult-onset CRB2-associated FSGS in a heterozygous state, suggesting a milder disease course with a progressive kidney decline. As with other genetic forms of FSGS, we hypothesize that heterozygous CRB2 mutations may permit near-normal renal function for years until cumulative stressors trigger podocyte injury and CKD progression.This case expands the clinical spectrum of CRB2-related kidney disease and highlights the importance of genetic testing in adults with unexplained CKD. Identifying genetic forms of CKD may refine diagnostic and therapeutic approaches in nephrology.Copyright © 2026 Michele Marchini et al. Case Reports in Nephrology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42107829 is a review article
Cardiomyocyte senescence drives cardiovascular disease, underscoring the need to define its molecular mechanisms. The role of cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) ion channel in this process remains unclear, particularly regarding its expression and function. Atrial tissues were collected from patients with sinus rhythm or atrial fibrillation (AF) of varying durations. CFTR was downregulated in AF patients and negatively correlated with p16, p21, and p53. Myocardial aging models were established using D-galactose (D-gal) in both mice and neonatal mouse cardiomyocytes (CMs). In both animal and cellular models, D-gal increased SA-β-gal positivity and senescence markers while decreasing CFTR. Overexpressing CFTR reduced D-gal-induced elevations in p16, p21, p53, and malondialdehyde (MDA), and restored superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), and catalase (CAT) activities. Mechanistically, CFTR alleviates mitochondrial oxidative stress damage by enhancing plasma membrane Ca2+ ATPase (PMCA) activity to reduce cytoplasmic Ca2+ levels. Furthermore, we identified USP45 as a direct binding partner of CFTR, which deubiquitinates CFTR by specifically targeting K48-linked chains and the K688 residue. CFTR knockdown exacerbated D-gal-induced senescence and mitochondrial oxidative stress, which was rescued by USP45 overexpression. In conclusion, this study reveals a novel mechanism in which USP45-mediated deubiquitination of CFTR mitigates cardiomyocyte senescence and mitochondrial oxidative stress, offering a targeted intervention against age-related cardiovascular diseases.© 2026 The Author(s). Aging Cell published by Anatomical Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Emerging evidence suggests that the overall prevalence of nephronophthisis (NPHP) in adult-onset end-stage kidney disease (ESKD) is very likely underestimated. Thus, a comprehensive understanding of the genetic basis and clinicopathologic features of adult-onset NPHP is essential. In this case, we report a 38-year-old woman who exhibited no growth disorders or urinary abnormalities in prior physical examinations. However, at 38 years of age, she presented with renal dysfunction (eGFR 29.5 mL/min/1.73 m2). Urine tests revealed a low specific gravity of urine, but no proteinuria or microscopic hematuria, while urinary (α1-MG) was elevated (137 mg/L). Extrarenal phenotypes were absent. For a definitive diagnosis, a renal biopsy was conducted. Light microscopic findings showed established irregular microcystic dilatation in the tubules, irregular focal lamellation of the tubular basement membrane and moderate fibrosis in the interstitial area. Genetic analysis identified biallelic NPHP3 variants in trans: c.1047C>A (p.Tyr349Ter) non-sense variant and c.3725A>G (p.Tyr1242Cys) missense variant., leading to a definitive diagnosis of NPHP. This case highlights NPHP3 as an appreciable genetic cause for adult-onset nonsyndromic NPHP. Further studies are required to clarify the genotype-phenotype correlations of NPHP in adults.© 2026 Asian Pacific Society of Nephrology.
Macroautophagy/autophagy is a critical process for maintaining cellular homeostasis and has emerging implications in cancer biology. DRAM2 (DNA damage regulated autophagy modulator 2), a transmembrane protein enriched at lysosomal membranes, has been implicated in autophagy regulation; however, the upstream mechanisms governing its trafficking and function remain unclear. In this study, we identified RPS6KA3/RSK2, a stress-responsive kinase downstream of the MAPK pathway, as a novel upstream kinase of DRAM2. RPS6KA3/RSK2 interacted with and phosphorylated DRAM2 at Ser263 within its cytosolic tail. This phosphorylation was required for AP3D1/AP-3-dependent trafficking of DRAM2 to the late endosomal-lysosomal pathway, thereby facilitating autolysosome formation and sustaining autophagic flux. In contrast, the non-phosphorylatable DRAM2S263A mutant failed to bind AP3D1/AP-3, exhibited defective lysosomal trafficking, and was partially redistributed toward plasma membrane-proximal compartments, where it enhanced exosome secretion. Bioinformatic analyses revealed a strong positive correlation between RPS6KA3/RSK2 and DRAM2 expression in melanoma tissues, and elevated DRAM2 expression was associated with poor patient prognosis. Depletion of RPS6KA3/RSK2 or DRAM2 impaired autophagic flux and inhibited melanoma cell proliferation. Similarly, expression of the DRAM2S263A mutant suppressed melanoma progression in vitro and in vivo by disrupting autophagy. Moreover, DRAM2 protein levels were elevated in skin cancer tissues compared to normal tissues. Collectively, our findings uncover a phosphorylation-dependent trafficking switch that bifurcates DRAM2 function between autophagy and exosome secretion, and establish the RPS6KA3/RSK2-DRAM2 axis as a critical regulator of melanoma progression. This signaling pathway may represent a promising therapeutic target for autophagy-associated malignancies.Abbreviations: AGC: protein kinase A, G, and C families; AP-3: adaptor protein 3; CD: cytosolic domain; CSNK2/CK2: casein kinase 2; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CQ: chloroquine; CREB: cAMP responsive element binding protein; CTKD: C-terminal kinase domain; DRAM2: DNA damage regulated autophagy modulator 2; EBSS: Earle's balanced salt solution; ESCRT: endosomal sorting complexes required for transport; GEPIA: gene expression profiling interactive analysis; GPS: global positioning system; GRK7: G protein-coupled receptor kinase 7; GSK3B: glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta; IP-MS: immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry; LAMP1: lysosome associated membrane protein 1; LAMP2: lysosome associated membrane protein 2; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MAPK: mitogen-activated protein kinase; MVB: multivesicular body; NTA: nanoparticle tracking analysis; NTKD: N-terminal kinase domain; PI4K2: phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase type 2 alpha; PRKAA2: protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha 2; RPS6KA3/RSK2: ribosomal protein S6 kinase A3; SKCM: skin cutaneous melanoma; SQSTM1: sequestosome 1.
Lung adenocarcinoma is the most common subtype of lung cancer and the leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide. Ferroptosis, a regulated form of cell death characterized by iron-dependent lipid peroxidation, has emerged as a promising therapeutic target for lung adenocarcinoma. However, the molecular mechanisms that control ferroptosis sensitivity remain unclear. In this study, we identified ubiquitin-specific protease 45 (USP45) as a critical suppressor of ferroptosis in lung adenocarcinoma cells. Systematic screening of ubiquitin-specific proteases revealed that USP45 robustly enhanced glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) protein expression. Bioinformatics analysis indicates that USP45 is significantly upregulated in lung adenocarcinoma patient datasets from the GEO and TCGA databases. Immunohistochemical results from the HPA database further corroborate this finding. Concurrently, elevated USP45 expression in lung adenocarcinoma patients frequently portends an unfavorable prognosis. Functional assays showed that USP45 depletion sensitized lung adenocarcinoma cells to erastin-induced ferroptosis, leading to impaired viability, colony formation, survival, migration, and invasion, whereas USP45 overexpression conferred resistance to ferroptotic stress and rescued the malignant phenotypes. Mechanistically, USP45 interacts with GPX4 and removes its ubiquitin chains, thereby stabilizing the GPX4 protein. Overexpression of GPX4 rescued ferroptosis sensitivity in USP45-deficient lung adenocarcinoma cells, whereas GPX4 depletion abrogated the protective effect of USP45 overexpression, establishing GPX4 as a functional mediator of USP45 activity. Collectively, these findings reveal a previously unknown USP45-GPX4 axis that promotes ferroptosis resistance and tumor progression in lung adenocarcinoma.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Patients with nephronophthisis caused by nephrocystin 3 (NPHP3) variants rapidly progress to end-stage kidney disease. However, existing Nphp3 mouse models fail to fully recapitulate the characteristics of this disease. We generated a renal tubule-specific Nphp3 knockout mouse model that more accurately mirrors the human disease course. The mouse model was first validated by confirming the loss of Nphp3 protein expression in renal tubules. Comprehensive phenotypic analyses were then performed to assess both renal and extrarenal manifestations. The origin of renal cysts was investigated, and the underlying mechanisms were further validated. We successfully generated a renal tubule-specific Nphp3 knockout mouse model (Cdh16-Cre; Nphp3flox/flox). These mice exhibited a markedly shortened lifespan (5-8 weeks) and developed key features of infantile nephronophthisis, including early-onset renal cysts originating from distal tubules and collecting ducts, progressive interstitial fibrosis that was evident by postnatal week 2, a rapid decline in kidney function, and increased urinary protein levels. Importantly, treatment with the vasopressin V2 receptor antagonist tolvaptan or the mitogen-activated extracellular signal-regulated kinase (MEK) inhibitor 2-(2-chloro-4-iodoanilino)-N-(cyclopropylmethoxy)-3,4-difluorobenzamide (CI-1040) significantly attenuated cyst growth and improved kidney morphology, confirming shared pathogenic pathways with other Nphp3 models. We established a renal tubule-specific Nphp3 knockout mouse model that accurately recapitulates the aggressive infantile form of nephronophthisis characterized by early cystogenesis, progressive fibrosis, and a shortened lifespan, and is ideal for evaluating novel interventions against this currently untreatable ciliopathy.
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS) is a complex endocrine disorder and a major cause of female infertility. While epigenetic dysregulation, notably DNA methylation, has been recognized as a key driver of PCOS pathogenesis, the specific involvement of active demethylation mediated by Ten-Eleven Translocation (TET) enzymes in the onset of the disease is currently poorly understood. In order to explore the role of TET2-mediated 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC) modifications and the underlying molecular drivers of PCOS, genome-wide 5hmC profiling was utilized to analyze granulosa cells from both PCOS patients and normal controls. Higher global 5hmC levels and TET2 expression were found in the granulosa cells of PCOS patients. Through integrated analysis, significant alterations in 5hmC at specific genomic loci were revealed, which were enriched in pathways related to MAPK signaling, gap junction communication, and oocyte meiosis. Furthermore, USP45 was identified as a downstream target of TET2 via ChIP-seq analysis. Functional experiments demonstrated that TET2 drives the overactivation of autophagic flux under hyperandrogenic conditions by stabilizing PRKAA1 via USP45-mediated deubiquitination. Conversely, pharmacological inhibition of TET2 effectively rescued these autophagic abnormalities. TET2-mediated 5hmC modification is revealed by this study as a key driver of PCOS pathogenesis; these insights offer a novel epigenetic framework for the development of PCOS therapies.
Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) is a rare autosomal recessive ciliopathy with multisystem involvement. While BBS1 mutations are common globally, population-specific genetic patterns and phenotype severity vary. This study aimed to investigate genotype-phenotype correlations in an Indian cohort.In this single-centre, observational cohort study, individuals meeting Beales' clinical criteria for BBS underwent next-generation sequencing (NGS). Phenotypic features were correlated with underlying genotypes, with particular attention to the type of mutation (truncating vs. non-truncating) and the implicated gene subgroup (chaperonin-like vs. BBSome complex).Of 15 patients screened, nine were confirmed to have BBS. The most frequently mutated genes were BBS10 and BBS2 (33.3% each), followed by BBS9 and BBS12. All variants were homozygous, with truncating mutations observed in 77.8% of cases. Obesity was universally present, while retinal dystrophy and polydactyly were each seen in 88.9% of patients. Renal abnormalities were less frequent (22.2%) and were observed only among patients with truncating variants in this cohort. Compared with non-truncating mutations, truncating variants were associated with earlier diagnosis (median age: 14 vs. 28.5 years), possibly reflecting earlier clinical manifestations. Notably, earlier onset of disease and broader multisystem involvement were more frequently observed in patients with BBS10 mutations.This study provides descriptive insights into the genotypic spectrum of BBS in an Indian cohort, with frequent involvement of BBS10 and BBS2. The findings underscore the importance of population-specific genetic data and highlight the potential value of early genetic evaluation in consanguineous families.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The HIV-1 Tat protein is regulated by post-translational modifications, particularly ubiquitination, but the full spectrum of deubiquitinating enzymes (DUBs) controlling HIV-1 transcription remains incompletely understood. We developed a NanoBRET-based screening system using a library of 120 DUB expression vectors and identified USP45 as a novel Tat-interacting DUB. Functional characterization revealed that USP45 specifically deubiquitinates Tat at lysine 19, targeting both K48-linked and K63-linked ubiquitin chains. Notably, USP45 overexpression suppressed Tat-dependent transcriptional activation and HIV-1 viral particle production, while USP45 knockdown enhanced both processes. Transcriptional profiling in latently infected J-Lat 8.4 cells using digital PCR revealed that USP45 primarily inhibits the initial stages of viral transcription, thereby contributing to the maintenance of the latent state by restricting downstream transcriptional processes. Furthermore, USP45 expression is induced by interferons, identifying it as an interferon-stimulated gene. These findings establish that USP45 functions as a host restriction factor that negatively regulates HIV-1 transcription by promoting Tat deubiquitination at lysine 19, representing a promising therapeutic target for controlling HIV-1 latency.Copyright © 2026 Miyakawa, Okura, Hatayama, Nishi, Kimura, Yamamoto, Hasegawa, Matano and Ryo.
We recently identified variants in 10 genes that are members of either the p53 pathway or Fanconi Anemia Complex (FAC), regulators of DNA repair (DNA damage response [DDR]) in 17 cases with pediatric acute-onset neuropsychiatric syndrome (PANS) or regression in autism spectrum disorder and other neurodevelopmental disorders (NDD). We aimed to identify additional cases with genetic vulnerabilities in DDR and related pathways.Whole-exome sequencing (WES) and whole-genome sequencing (WGS) data from 32 individuals were filtered and analyzed to identify ultrarare pathogenic or likely pathogenic variants.Variants affecting DDR were found in 14 cases diagnosed with PANS or regression (CUX1, USP45, PARP14, UVSSA, EP300, TREX1, SAMHD1, STK19, MYTl1, TEP1, PIDD1, ADNP, FANCD2, and RAD54L). The CUX1 variant is de novo, as are two cases that had mutations in genes that affect mitochondrial functions that are connected directly or indirectly to mitophagy (PRKN and POLG), which can trigger the same innate immune pathways when disrupted as abnormal DDR. We also found pathogenic or likely pathogenic secondary mutations in several genes that are primarily expressed in the gut that have been implicated in gut microbiome homeostasis (e.g., LGALS4, DUOX2, CCR9).These findings align with previous genetic findings and strengthen the hypothesis that abnormal DDR and mitochondrial dysfunction underlie pathogenic processes in at least some cases of neuropsychiatric decompensation. The potential involvement of genetic variants in gut microbiome homeostasis is a novel aspect of our study. Functional characterization of the downstream impact of DDR deficits may point to novel treatment strategies.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Trichinellosis, a globally distributed zoonosis, threatens both human health and livestock productivity. The limited efficacy of existing anthelmintics underscores the need for innovative strategies to control Trichinella spiralis infection.A recombinant food-grade Lactococcus lactis strain (NZ-Bcl2) was engineered to secrete the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl2 by fusing the Bcl2 gene to the Usp45 signal peptide. Western blotting confirmed successful expression and secretion. NZ-Bcl2 strains exhibited stable growth, maintained plasmid inheritance over 24 generations without antibiotic pressure, and persisted in the murine intestine for at least seven days. In low-dose infections (150 larvae/mouse), oral administration of NZ-Bcl2 significantly reduced muscle larval burden, mitigated intestinal damage, and alleviated mesenteric lymph node enlargement. These protective effects were associated with downregulation of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1β, TNF-α), upregulation of anti-inflammatory cytokines (IL-10, TGF-β), and increased expression of intestinal barrier markers (claudin-3, MUC-1). Under high-dose challenge (600 larvae/mouse), the protective effects were attenuated.Recombinant L. lactis secreting Bcl2 confers partial protection against T. spiralis by enhancing mucosal barrier function and modulating host immunity. These findings highlight the potential of engineered probiotics as a novel platform for antiparasitic intervention, offering translational relevance for food safety and zoonotic disease control.© 2025. The Author(s).
Opioid dependence is a complex disorder influenced by multiple factors, including aging and genetic factors. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain incompletely understood. This in silico study integrated transcriptomic profiling, transcriptomic aging clock modeling, and GWAS analysis of brain samples to investigate molecular mechanisms associated with opioid dependence. One-hundred sixty-one DEGs were identified, including 147 upregulated and 14 downregulated genes in individuals with opioid dependence, which are involved in immune and inflammatory pathways (TNF signaling pathway). Network centrality analysis highlighted CCL2, CD44, THBS1, TIMP1, CD163, IL6, IL1B, and MYC as potential hub genes. FAM174B was downregulated in older individuals with opioid dependence, whereas ZNF256 was upregulated in younger individuals. A transcriptomic aging clock showed moderate predictive performance (r=0.686, MAE=5.16) and revealed significant differences in age-prediction residuals between younger and older groups, suggesting altered age-related transcriptional states in opioid dependence. Two genes (PHYH and LUCAT1) were strongly associated with age-prediction residuals. An analysis of six GWAS studies identified 223 SNP associations, including genome-wide significant variants in ADGRV1, OPRM1, CNIH3, RGMA, GPRIN3, GAPDHP15, SRP72P1, and CTCF-DT genes implicated in neuronal signaling and opioid pharmacology. Together, these findings highlight immune pathways, neuronal signaling, and aging-related molecular processes as key components of opioid dependence.
Pulmonary hypertension (PH) is a frequent complication of interstitial lung diseases (ILD) that worsens morbidity and mortality. Cigarette smoking has a detrimental effect on transplant-free survival of patients with ILD, including patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). However, smoking-related molecular alterations in patients with ILD-PH are not well understood. We performed analysis of 226 patients with ILD with and without PH (59.3% smokers, 40.3% with IPF) from the University of California, Davis cohort. Supporting previous findings, smokers with ILD had significantly shorter transplant-free survival than ILD non-smokers. Using a multivariable Cox regression model, we identified cigarette smoking as a significant independent predictor of mortality of patients with ILD. Smokers with IPF-PH have significantly lower diffusing capacity of the lungs for carbon monoxide (DLCO) compared to non-smokers. Transcriptomic analysis of whole blood of IPF-PH patients identified 616 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in smokers compared to non-smokers with most deregulated fat cell differentiation and protein ubiquitination pathways. Three DEGs belonging to these pathways (BBS1, BARD1, and SMURF1) showed moderate negative correlation with mean pulmonary arterial pressure (mPAP) in patients with IPF-PH. These data show that, in patients with IPF-PH, smoking is associated with reduced DLCO, and suggest that BBS1, BARD1, and SMURF1 could be considered as potential biomarkers of PH severity in smokers with IPF-PH.© 2026 The Author(s). Pulmonary Circulation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Pulmonary Vascular Research Institute.
Prenatal diagnosis of genetic syndromes often relies on structural anomalies; however, many monogenic disorders show atypical or evolving prenatal phenotypes, limiting imaging-based diagnosis. We report four fetuses with atypical presentations diagnosed by exome/genome sequencing. Pathogenic variants were identified in BBS1, SLC26A2, POMT2, and COL25A1. Prenatal findings included heterotaxy with complex heart disease, isolated long bone shortening, subtle CNS anomalies, and recurrent contractures. These cases highlight the variability in the prenatal phenotypic spectrum of genetic disorders and the value of genomic sequencing for accurate genetic counseling and reproductive decision-making.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Congenital anomalies of the kidney and urinary tract (CAKUT) comprise a broad spectrum of malformations and constitute the leading cause of end-stage kidney disease (ESKD) in childhood. Despite extensive research, a monogenic cause is identified in only ~10% of cases, while variable penetrance and expressivity suggest a more complex disease mechanism. Epigenetic and environmental factors have also been implicated, further complicating efforts to elucidate the etiology of these anomalies.Whole exome sequencing (WES) was performed in 47 individuals with isolated, non-syndromic congenital renal parenchymal anomalies.Variants in four genes (BBS1, PKHD1, XPNPEP3, and KCTD1) were identified, each of which has an established role in nephrogenesis and is implicated in syndromic disorders in which CAKUT can occur as part of the clinical spectrum. In addition, a variant in GREB1L was detected, a gene previously associated with CAKUT. The WES analysis identified candidate variants in 10.6% of patients, consistent with diagnostic yields reported in comparable CAKUT studies. The genes harboring variants are involved in key biological processes, including signaling pathways, ciliary function, and mitochondrial biology, supporting their relevance for further investigation.Our findings support WES as a valuable tool for identifying clinically relevant variants and expanding the genetic landscape of CAKUT.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42343624
Bardet-Biedl syndrome is a pleiotropic ciliopathy marked by retinal degeneration, obesity, polydactyly, renal and reproductive anomalies, and cognitive impairment. BBS1, the most frequently mutated gene in Bardet-Biedl syndrome, encodes a key component of the BBSome complex, which is essential for ciliary membrane trafficking. Although BBS1 is known to be essential for proper BBSome function, the effects of disease-associated BBS1 variants on its activity remain incompletely understood.In this study, we examined how patient-derived BBS1 mutations affect BBSome integrity and its role in cargo transport within primary cilia.Our results show that particular BBS1 mutations interfere with distinct stages of BBSome assembly and trafficking. While M390R disrupts initial pre-BBSome assembly at pericentriolar satellites, E224K impairs both the maturation of the pre-BBSome into the BBSome and its movement from pericentriolar satellites to the cilium. In contrast, the R160Q variant preserves BBSome assembly and permits its localization to cilia. It specifically weakens the BBSome-GPCR interaction mediated by TOM1L2, resulting in defective GPR161 export and increased ciliary IFT turnover.Overall, our study establishes a mechanistic framework linking specific BBS1 mutations to distinct defects in BBSome assembly and function. This framework defines functional classes of BBS1 variants and provides deeper insight into the molecular mechanism and severity of Bardet-Biedl syndrome.© 2026. The Author(s).
Inherited retinal diseases (IRDs) may present as an isolated ocular condition or as part of multisystem disorders, such as Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS). Several BBS-related manifestations are age-dependent and variably expressed. Therefore, patients with early or subtle extra-ocular features may be incorrectly diagnosed as having non-syndromic IRD. There are two diagnostic frameworks for BBS: a phenotype-based, Beales-derived approach and a genotype-first approach, as recommended by the InterEuropean Reference Networks (ERNs) criteria. Here, we aimed to conduct comprehensive evaluations of patients with IRD carrying BBS-related variants.Nineteen patients from nine Jordanian families initially diagnosed with non-syndromic IRD underwent detailed ophthalmic evaluation and molecular testing. Post-genetic testing, participants underwent targeted reverse phenotyping to reveal potentially overlooked syndromic features.Ophthalmic assessment revealed a spectrum ranging from advanced IRDs to phenotypes inclining toward rod-cone, cone-rod, and macular dystrophies. Molecular testing identified potential causative variants in BBS-related genes known to cause both isolated IRD and BBS, namely, CFAP418, BBS2, BBS1, BBS5, and CEP290. A splice donor variant in CFAP418 was the most frequent in our cohort (numbers [n] = 3/9 families), followed by a missense variant in BBS2 (n = 2/9 families). These findings prompted genotype-guided reverse phenotyping, which uncovered previously unrecognized multisystemic involvement. BBS-related major and minor features were discovered across the cohort. The extraretinal major features included obesity (n = 16 patients), polydactyly (n = 7 patients), renal anomalies (n = 7 patients), genitourinary abnormalities (n = 4 patients), and intellectual disability (n = 4 patients). Using Beales-derived criteria, 11 patients met the threshold for BBS. Under ERNs genotype-first recommendations, 18 patients reached the BBS diagnostic limit.Wide intra- and inter-familial clinical variability was observed, even among patients with the same variants in CFAP418 and BBS2. Furthermore, applying genotype-guided diagnostic criteria reclassified multiple patients who did not meet the traditional Beales-based clinical criteria as having BBS. These findings demonstrate that a genotype-first approach can detect patients with unrecognized BBS and facilitate appropriate clinical surveillance, genetic counseling, and management. To our knowledge, this is the first study from Jordan to integrate molecular testing with reverse phenotyping in patients carrying BBS-related genotypes. Importantly, we present the most comprehensive extra-retinal characterization of patients with CFAP418, so far.Copyright © 2026 Azab, Aburizeg, Al-Slaimieh, Naser Aldeen, Hyasat, Alrefae, Albooz, AlAref, Alrefae, Obeidat, Hadidy, Abu-Ameerh, Al-Bdour, Maswadi and Al-Nawaiseh.
Calcium (Ca2+) signaling is a key regulator of brain function and development. Here, we comprehensively analyze the Ca2+ signaling transcriptome in the adult mouse brain and the developing human brain to reveal the basis of signaling specificity. We show that neurons organize into non-stochastic Ca2+ states that reflect cell-type identity and capture subtle functional differences. These states arise from lineage-specific developmental Ca2+ programs that are detectable already in progenitor stages, and may precede differentiation into mature neuronal cell types. During neocortical development, many Ca2+ signaling genes, such as ADGRV1, NCALD, and CREB5, peak at distinct developmental stages, are evolutionarily conserved, and reflect transcriptional heterogeneity within progenitors associated with cell-fate decisions. Together, our findings provide an in-depth understanding of how a tightly regulated Ca2+ signaling transcriptome encodes cell-state-specific signaling programs and demonstrate that Ca2+ signaling is precisely tailored to distinct cell states.© 2026 The Author(s).
Carrier screening is a long-standing genetic testing process offered to at-risk couples, with or without a family history, who might have pregnancies affected by an autosomal recessive (AR) or X-linked (XL) disorder. A total of 276 unrelated individuals, initially referred for rare disorder screening by clinicians, were enrolled in this study and tested by Exome sequencing (ES). Expanded carrier screening (ECS) was performed for 176 disorders that met the inclusion criteria of the ACMG and ACOG. Genes with single nucleotide variants (SNVs) identified with a carrier rate > 1% for AR disorders included HBB, CFTR, PMM2, NPHS2, GJB2, ACADM, ALDOB, MEFV, MKS1, NEB, PAH, ATM, CPT2, CYP21A2, AGXT, BBS1, CAPN3, COL4A4, DHCR7, GAA, IVD, LAMA2, SLC22A5, SLC26A4, USH2A. For XL disorders, variants were detected in the RS1 gene. ECS offers a wealth of information about SNVs related to AR and XL disorders in specified populations. The information obtained from ECS provides multiple advantages: (a) it identifies the most prominent risks in health care in a given population and contributes to the prevention of genetic disorders, (b) it enriches available databases with pathogenic or likely pathogenic SNVs, and (c) it records novel targets for molecular clinical genetic testing.© 2026 The Author(s). American Journal of Medical Genetics Part A published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
This report presents a case of unilateral retinitis pigmentosa (URP) with associated symptoms and microphthalmia in the right eye of a young female patient. A 23-year-old with a previous diagnosis of URP and a constricted visual field in one eye was examined. Slit lamp examination of the right eye revealed a moderate posterior subcapsular and mild nuclear sclerotic cataract, with a clear lens in the left eye. Funduscopic examination of the right eye showed diffuse retinal pigmentary epithelium atrophy with peripheral bone spicule pigmentation, cystoid macular edema, and glial clusters protruding from the optic nerve. Left eye fundoscopy revealed unremarkable retinal findings. Fundus autofluorescence, optical coherence tomography, Humphrey visual field, and full-field electroretinogram testing indicated compatible results with our funduscopic findings of URP. Axial length (AL) measurements and anterior chamber angle assessment by gonioscopy suggested microphthalmia of the right globe. The left eye was shorter than average but within normal limits. Salivary genetic testing revealed genetically sensitized retinae carrying heterozygous variants in the INPP5E, FSCN2, RP1L1, and WFS1 genes. The patient is a carrier of a pathogenic variant of INPP5E, while the significance of the other identified variants is uncertain. This case report showcases the unique presentation of URP, glial tissue abnormality, and microphthalmia, suggesting a potentially shared genetic link between retinal pigmentary degeneration and malformation of other ocular structures. Further study is required to understand any shared genetic and/or proteomic etiology. These discoveries may aid in possible future treatment modalities for retinal cilioretinopathy disease and related disorders.Copyright © 2026, Bivona et al.
Sperm cryodamage is a key factor affecting its post-thaw quality. This study aims to systematically elucidate the molecular response mechanisms of bovine sperm cryodamage by integrating transcriptomic and proteomic analyses. By utilizing the swim-up technique to isolate sperm subpopulations with mild and severe cryodamage, thereby minimizing interference from individual genetic variation. Results demonstrated that mildly damaged sperm exhibited superior motility, structural integrity, and antioxidant capacity, along with less reactive oxygen species accumulation and more active Wnt, mTOR, and Hippo signaling pathways at the transcriptional level. Severely damaged sperm exhibited activation of pathways related to oxidative phosphorylation, thermogenesis, peroxisome, glutathione metabolism, phagocytosis, and DNA repair at the protein level, with ATP5MG, GPX1, XRCC1, and AP1M2 serving as core regulatory factors in these pathways. Additionally, integrated analysis identified eight potential biomarker proteins, including apoptosis-related protein ARL6IP5, anti-apoptotic protein GRINA, adhesion factors CDHR1/LGALS1, DNA repair proteins CUL4B/POLR2E, and core factors RPL14/A1BG in the protein-protein interaction network. Notably, the protein levels of ARL6IP5, CDHR1, and LGALS1 were inconsistent with their gene expression levels. These candidate molecules showed significant correlations with post-thaw sperm quality and were quantitatively validated. The results indicate that mitochondrial energy metabolism, antioxidant and anti-apoptotic defense systems, as well as self-repair and clearance responses, including nucleic acid repair and phagocytosis, represent the molecular response characteristics of sperm cryodamage. These findings complement the molecular mechanisms and regulatory networks of sperm cryodamage, and provide potential targets for evaluating the cryopreservation potential of bull semen and optimizing cryoprotectants.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42562233 is a review article
To identify rare and common copy number variants (CNVs) associated with strabismus and amblyopia.Case-control association study using structural variant calls from short-read whole-genome sequencing from the All of Us Research Program, including 1224 adults with strabismus, 564 with amblyopia (152 with both), and controls (95,175 for strabismus; 95,319 for amblyopia). Autosomal CNVs were identified using the GATK-SV pipeline. After instituting quality control measures, CNVs present in ≥20 affected individuals were divided into rare (<1% population frequency) and common (>1% population frequency). CNVs were manually verified in Integrative Genomics Viewer. In an independent analysis, we examined three intergenic duplications previously associated with strabismus to assess whether the findings could be replicated.One rare and three common CNVs were associated with amblyopia: a rare intronic deletion in MDGA2, an intronic duplication in CAMK2D, and intronic deletions in COG1 and KMT2C. Three rare and 2 common CNVs were associated with strabismus: rare intronic deletions in PCDH15, GTF2H1, and NKAIN3, a common intronic deletion in TRANK1, and a common intronic duplication in GRK5. Implicated genes predominantly affect neuronal and synaptic function, including modulation of postsynaptic potential, retrograde transport, glutaminergic synaptic transmission, and calcium-mediated signaling. GRK5 interacts with CXCR4, a chemokine receptor critical for axon guidance of the oculomotor nerve. The previously identified chr4 duplication was also significantly associated with strabismus in the AoURP dataset, replicating previous findings.CNVs are an additional source of genetic risk for strabismus and amblyopia and highlight synaptic and neurodevelopmental pathways as central to etiology.
To evaluate the clinical characteristics, genomic landscape, and perinatal outcomes of fetal polydactyly using combined copy number variation sequencing (CNV-seq) and trio-exome sequencing (trio-ES).This retrospective cohort study included 44 prenatally confirmed fetuses with polydactyly. Cases were stratified into isolated (n = 21) and non-isolated (n = 23) groups. Polydactyly was further subclassified according to anatomical distribution, laterality, and duplication axis. Genetic etiology was investigated using CNV-seq and trio-ES, and pregnancy outcomes were ascertained through clinical follow-up.The overall genetic diagnostic yield was 36.4% (16/44), comprising aneuploidies (n = 6), one pathogenic CNV and monogenic disorders (n = 9). Causative variants were identified in NEK1, EVC2, BBS4, GLI3, TBX3, MYCN, and KIAA0825, with one incidental finding in PIK3CD. The diagnostic yield was significantly higher in the non-isolated group than in the isolated group (60.9% vs. 9.5%, p < 0.001). Specific anatomical features were associated with markedly increased genetic burden, including concurrent involvement of both upper and lower limbs (100%), bilateral presentation (64.7% vs. 18.5% for unilateral; p < 0.01), and postaxial polydactyly (PAP) compared with preaxial polydactyly (PPD) (65.0% vs. 12.5%; p < 0.001). Pregnancy outcomes differed substantially between phenotypic subgroups, with a live birth rate of 100% in isolated cases versus 34.8% in non-isolated cases (p < 0.001).Fetal polydactyly exhibits profound genetic and phenotypic heterogeneity. Although non-isolated, multi-limb, bilateral, and postaxial presentations are strong predictors of underlying chromosomal or monogenic disorders, apparently isolated cases still carry a clinically relevant genetic risk. The integration of detailed prenatal sonographic phenotyping with CNV-seq and trio-ES improves diagnostic precision, facilitates prognostic assessment, and informs prenatal counseling and long-term postnatal surveillance.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Osteoporosis (OP) is a multifactorial skeletal disorder marked by reduced bone mass and microstructural deterioration. We investigated potential diagnostic biomarkers and immunometabolic targets through integrated bioinformatics and machine learning analysis.Batch-corrected GEO transcriptomic data were analyzed by WGCNA to identify OPassociated modules. An optimal diagnostic model was established using 12 machine learning algorithms (113 combinations). Immune infiltration and pathway activity were evaluated by CIBERSORT and GSEA, and hub genes were validated by qRT-PCR in plasma samples.The best random forest-based model had good predictive performance for both the training dataset and validation dataset (AUC > 0.80). Ten hub genes were finally screened out as candidate diagnostic biomarkers: POLA1, ARAP1, MAP7D1, TSPYL2, MRPL4, PPP1R14D, INTS1, SMARCB1, DLK1, and FPGT. Functional analyses showed enrichment in immunerelated and metabolic pathways, including PI3K-Akt signaling and pentose phosphate metabolism. These genes correlated with immune cell alterations, such as CD8⁷ T cells, Th17 cells, and macrophages. qRT-PCR validation confirmed their significant differential expression in OP samples.This study underscores immune-metabolic dysregulation at the core of OP pathobiology. Although heterogeneity existed in external validation cohorts, and sample sizes were small, our integrative analysis pipeline enhances the precision and clinical relevance of potential biomarkers.The study concluded that this work identified ten possible diagnostic biomarkers, and provided a mechanism for understanding the interaction between immune metabolism and OP, which will help guide further research on precision diagnosis and treatment in OP.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Stomach adenocarcinoma (STAD) poses a significant global health burden, with notable geographic variations in its incidence and complex underlying causes. Palmitoylation plays a crucial role in cancer development, yet its prognostic relevance in STAD remains poorly understood. Multi-omics data integration was performed using TCGA-STAD (N=407) and GEO-GSE26901 (N=110) cohorts with single-cell data (GSE167297; N=14 samples). Palmitoylation-related genes (PRGs=3,599) from GeneCards underwent differential expression screening and Cox regression to identify prognostic DEPRGs. A LASSO-multivariate Cox model constructed a 5-gene signature for risk stratification, validated externally. Comprehensive analyses included molecular subtyping (ConsensusClusterPlus), immune infiltration (CIBERSORT/ssGSEA), immunotherapy response (TIDE/IPS), drug sensitivity (pRRophetic/CellMiner), pathway enrichment (GSEA/clusterProfiler), and single-cell ecosystem characterization. Based on multi-omics analysis of STAD, we identified 5 signature gene (GAMT, RDH12, RNASE1, SERPINE1, and SLC52A3) to construct a robust prognostic model. High-risk group exhibited enrichment in pro-metastatic pathways (CAMs, ECM-receptor interaction) and an immunosuppressive microenvironment (increased M2 macrophages, decreased CD8⁺ T cells), correlating with poor survival, higher TIDE scores, and immunotherapy resistance. Consensus clustering revealed two molecular subtypes with divergent survival outcomes. Single-cell analysis revealed SERPINE1⁺ endothelial cells as a high-risk subpopulation driving angiogenesis via MK pathway interactions with epithelial/stromal cells. Based on multi-omics integration, this study establishes PRGs signature as a robust prognostic biomarker for STAD, enabling risk stratification, molecular subtyping, and prediction of immunotherapy response while elucidating PRGs-mediated remodeling of the tumor-immune microenvironment.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s10616-026-01014-7.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Tip links connect the stereocilia of mechanosensory hair cells in the inner ear and transmit force onto mechanotransduction (MET) channels. Tip links consist of protocadherin 15 (PCDH15) and cadherin 23, which assemble into an extracellular filament approximately 150 nm in length. Rare freeze-etched electron microscopy (EM) images have suggested that tip links could be right-handed double helices in vivo, but direct structural evidence has been lacking. Using cryo-EM we determined the structure of a large part of the extracellular PCDH15 domain. Two PCDH15 molecules form a parallel cis dimer stabilized by several dimerization interfaces, including two strand crossovers and two parallel contacts, yielding a right-handed double helix. Functional studies show that mutations in PCDH15 dimerization-domains impair MET. Our results establish the molecular foundation for how PCDH15 forms a right-handed double helix to enable mechanical sensing.
With orthologs for >70% of human genes, zebrafish represent a popular model for investigating development and disease, particularly when murine models are unsuitable. One caveat of zebrafish genetic models is the prevalence of paralogs, where compensation and transcriptional adaptation can complicate our understanding. Usher syndrome type 1 F (USH1F), caused by PCDH15 mutations, exemplifies the need for alternatives models; the primary site of injury, calyceal processes (CP), are uniquely lacking from photoreceptors of nocturnal rodents. Here we demonstrate that contrary to previous reports, zebrafish pcdh15a/b paralogs are not absolutely restricted to ear and eye tissues respectively. Instead, both paralogs are expressed and required in the mechanosensitive hair cells and retinal photoreceptors. Double mutants present the most severe phenotypes: loss of kinocilial and stereocilial links in the ear, and disorganization of CPs, inner/outer segment detachment, and photoreceptor cell death. We also demonstrate that ear and eye-specific phenotypes may be isolated via isoform-specific knockout. These data highlight the strengths of zebrafish to study pathomechanism in vivo. They should also caution researchers from defining paralogs as discrete, absolutely restricted functional units without exceptional evidence. When possible, double mutants may be preferable for studying gene function, and modelling diseases where humans have a single ortholog.© 2026. The Author(s).
Synapses are thought to be a vulnerable site in hearing loss. One gene required for normal synapse maintenance is Wbp2, which encodes a transcriptional co-activator of oestrogen and progesterone receptors. The Wbp2tm2a mouse mutant allele knocks down transcription to minimal levels and leads to progressive increase in ABR thresholds for high frequencies from 4 weeks onwards in homozygotes. This is accompanied by swelling of nerve terminals below inner hair cells and dysregulation of key post-synaptic proteins. We have used the design of the Wbp2tm2a mutation to investigate whether the synaptic swelling and increase in auditory thresholds can be prevented or reversed by activating the Wbp2 gene either prior to or after the onset of hearing loss, respectively. The influence of a common modifier of auditory function, Cdh23ahl, was also studied by crossing a repaired Cdh23 allele into the Wbp2tm2a colony. We found that activation of Wbp2 at either 4 weeks old or postnatal day 4 failed to halt or prevent the progression of hearing loss in Wbp2tm2a homozygous mutant mice. Surprisingly, correction of the Cdh23ahl allele in Wbp2tm2a/tm2a mice completely abolished the auditory phenotype, restoring hearing thresholds to normal up to 26 weeks of age. These findings reveal the difficulty in reversing early-onset synaptic defects and highlight genetic background, including known modifiers like Cdh23ahl, as a critical factor in auditory research.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
A/J mice exhibit early-onset hearing loss linked to Cdh23, mitochondrial tRNA-Arg (mt-Tr), and citrate synthase (Cs) variants. Although developmental cochlear defects have been identified in juvenile A/J mice, the hierarchical contributions of mt-Tr versus Cs remain unclear. Using reciprocal intercross-derived strains to decouple mitochondrial haplotypes from nuclear factors, we demonstrate that the mitochondrial background is the primary determinant of auditory dysfunction. Mice with A/J mtDNA (AXB strains) displayed significantly higher ABR thresholds, accelerated hair cell attrition, and severe stereocilia dysmorphology compared to those with B6 mtDNA (BXA strains), occurring largely independently of the Cs genotype. While the Cs mutation exacerbated hearing loss, its impact was secondary to that of the dominant mitochondrial background. Systemic behavioral assessments and mitochondrial assays confirmed that A/J mitochondria exert a more profound metabolic impact than the Cs mutation. Our findings establish that the mitochondrial genomic background, with the mt-Tr locus as a prominent candidate variant, serves as the principal driver of developmental cochlear defects and early-onset hearing loss in A/J mice, while the nuclear Cs mutation acts as a synergistic modifier. This study underscores the critical role of mitonuclear crosstalk in inner ear maturation and provides new insights into the etiology of hereditary hearing loss.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. and Mitochondria Research Society. All rights reserved.
Birth weight is a key early-life trait in sheep that influences neonatal survival and subsequent growth, but its genetic basis remains incompletely understood. Here, we used low-coverage whole-genome sequencing (lcWGS)-based genotyping and genome-wide association analysis (GWAS) to investigate birth weight in 671 East Friesian × Hu crossbred lambs, achieving high imputation accuracy (98.5% allelic concordance). A total of 148 SNPs reached the suggestive significance threshold, of which 20 reached genome-wide significance. Among these signals, the chromosome 7 locus contained 69 suggestive variants spanning an approximately 6 kb interval within the SPATA7 region, including 14 genome-wide significant SNPs. Notably, 13 of these suggestive variants overlapped annotated enhancer intervals, of which 3 reached genome-wide significance. Portions of the associated interval also coincided with pituitary ATAC-seq and liver H3K4me1 ChIP-seq signals. Chr7:98,178,889 A > G, the most strongly associated SNP in this region, showed birth-weight differences among genotypes. Lambs carrying the AG genotype had significantly higher adjusted least-squares mean birth weight than AA lambs (3.81 vs. 3.56 kg; Δ = 0.25 kg, +7.0%). These findings prioritize the SPATA7 region as a candidate regulatory locus for birth-weight variation and provide a basis for future fine-mapping and functional validation.
Phosphorylation, carried out by kinases, is a pivotal mechanism for all cell signal transduction pathways. In eukaryotic cells, Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinases (MAPK) form modules with three kinases (MAPKKK, MAPKK, and MAPK) that are sequentially activated, participating in multiple signaling mechanisms. The second kinase forming a typical module is called MAP kinase kinase (MAPKK or MKK), which receives the signal from MAPKKK and transmits it to MAPK. The Arabidopsis thaliana genome has 10 MKKs and they are classified into four different groups (A, B, C, and D). To date, several aspects of the MKK functioning are known, but there is little information about MKK expression in plant tissues. Here, each MKK upstream region was fused to the UidA reporter, and these pMKK1-10:UidA constructions were used to reveal the MKK expression patterns in the tissues of the seedlings during their early development. This experimental expression analysis was complemented with a detailed bioinformatic analysis focused on identifying the cis-regulatory elements present in these upstream promoter regions.
Breast cancer (BC) metastasis remains a major cause of mortality, yet the molecular mechanisms driving this process are incompletely understood. This study identifies TMEM216, a transmembrane protein implicated in ciliary homeostasis, as a suppressor of lung metastasis in BC. Using mammary-specific Tmem216 knockout mice, we demonstrate that Tmem216 deficiency promotes lung metastasis without affecting primary tumor proliferation. Clinical analyses reveal reduced TMEM216 expression in metastatic lesions and aggressive cell lines, correlating with poor patient distant metastasis-free survival. Mechanistically, TMEM216 interacts with IGF1R and binds to IRS4 via the conserved K79-D1049 interaction, disrupting the IGF1R-IRS4 complex formation and suppressing IGF pathway activation. Rescue experiments in vitro and in vivo confirm that TMEM216-mediated metastasis inhibition depends on IGF signaling modulation. Tissue microarray analyses further establish an inverse correlation between TMEM216 levels and IGF1R phosphorylation in BC patients, with low TMEM216 expression associated with advanced metastasis. These findings delineate TMEM216 as a critical regulator of the IGF1R-IRS4 axis, offering therapeutic opportunities for targeting metastatic BC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42379497 is a review article
We report a case of Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) complicated by bilateral Coats-like exudative vasculopathy with exudative retinal detachment and neovascular glaucoma (NVG).A 10-year-old boy noticed decreased visual acuity and was referred to our clinic. He had a history of retinitis pigmentosa, renal dysfunction, obesity, and a delay in mental development at 4 years of age. Genetic testing confirmed BBS with compound heterozygous variants detected in the BBS2 gene. His visual acuity was light perception in both eyes, and the intraocular pressure (IOP) was 14 mmHg in the right eye and 35 mmHg in the left eye. Fundus examination revealed severe exudative changes in both eyes with vitreous hemorrhage in the left eye. In the right eye, fluorescein angiography showed limited retinal vascular circulation and a nonperfused peripheral area in the equatorial region with multiple sites of neovascularization. Panretinal photocoagulation was performed on the right eye, and vitrectomy was performed on the left eye for the NVG. The left eye had proliferative membranes throughout the periphery. Postoperatively, the IOP of the right eye was elevated accompanied by iris rubeosis. Aflibercept was injected Intravitreally and lens-sparing vitrectomy was performed on the right eye with additional endophotocoagulation. One month later, the visual acuity remained at light perception in both eyes. The IOP was well controlled with topical medication at 18 mmHg for the right eye and 20 mmHg for the left eye.The Coats-like exudative lesions associated with eyes with the BBS2 gene variants and retinal vascular occlusion likely led to the NVG.© 2026 The Authors.
Carpal lameness is a common cause of wastage in Thoroughbred racehorses, with the middle carpal joint most frequently affected. Evaluation of the dorsoproximal-dorsodistal oblique (DPr-DDiO) radiographic projection of the third carpal bone (C3) is fundamental in clinical and pre-purchase assessment of Thoroughbred racehorses. A standardised grading system is needed to improve consistency of diagnosis and reporting between clinicians.To develop and assess inter-rater reliability of a novel grading system for evaluating radiological features of the third carpal bone on the C3 skyline projection.Retrospective multi-rater agreement study.The novel grading system assessed bone radiopacity changes (Grades 0-4) and lucency characteristics (Grades A-C). Bone density ranged from Grade 0 (even trabecular distribution) to Grade 3 (severe radiopacity), with Grade 4 indicating overt evidence of fracture. Lucencies were classified as A (small, dorsal), B (linear or curvilinear, central), or C (extensive). Six observers independently graded 250 radiographs from a first-opinion Thoroughbred racehorse caseload. Inter-rater agreement was determined using Kappa statistics.Category-specific bone density grading revealed moderate agreement for Grades 0, 1, and 3 (κ = 0.45, 0.41, and 0.53), fair agreement for Grade 2 (κ = 0.36), and moderate to substantial agreement for Grade 4 (κ = 0.68). Inter-rater agreement on lucency classification ranged from fair (Grade B, κ = 0.28; Grade A, κ = 0.39) to moderate (Grade C, κ = 0.52). Unweighted kappa for bone density grading was 0.44 and 0.47 for presence of lucency grading. Weighted kappa for bone density grading was 0.59, indicating moderate agreement.All observers were highly experienced clinicians and intra-observer reliability was not assessed.Inter-rater agreement using a novel grading system for the evaluation of the C3 'skyline' radiographic projection was generally moderate, and substantial for fracture. Adoption of this grading system in clinical practice will assist standardisation of diagnostic and prognostic evaluation of this important injury site.© 2026 EVJ Ltd.
The emerging multi-phase evolution of metal-organic frameworks (MOFs) is advancing condensed matter physics and dynamic chemistry toward the next holy grail beyond current remarkable successes. To clarify the complex interplay between static and dynamic structure/energy factors governing molecular connection reservation, dissociation, and aggregation, the first serialized MOFs multi-phase evolutions were identified containing seven relevant phase states. The starting three MOFs with isomeric frameworks, that are [Co2L4]·2DMF, [CoL2]·DMF, and [CoL2]·2DMA (labeled as c1-c3, state Ⅰ), transform to similar hydrated products h1-h3 (stateⅡ), which are comparable to hydrogen-bonded framework [CoL2(H2O)4] (c4). Thermal dehydration of h1-h3 and c4 led to disorder and porous frameworks p1-p4 (state Ⅲ), which underwent glass transition to super-cooled liquid scl1-scl4 (state Ⅳ, ΔTscl = 10-24 K). MOFs glasses g1-g4 (state Ⅴ, Tg = 509-513 K) and re-crystallized MOFs rec1-rec4 (state Ⅵ, Tc = 535-547 K, analogues of de-solvated c2) were generated from queching and overheating scl1-scl4. Glass-recovered crystals r1-r4 (state Ⅶ, comparable to c2 or c3) were harvested by soaking g1-g4 in DMF or DMA solvents. For the first time, the enthalpy change between different phase states and their precise energy levels were established. The MOF glasses possess CO2 accessible porosity with a broad pore size range of 4-15 Å, and can be fabricated to be a crack-free membrane. These results demonstrate a concept of hierarchical memory effect, characterized by self-adaptive yet limited distortion of metal nodes driven by coordinative bond reversibility, restricted ligand movement in condensed state, and divergencer/convergence during framework disassembly/reassembly. This effect elucidates the origins of phase state evolution, offering new insights into MOF dynamic chemistry and advancing it to unexplored frontiers.Copyright © 2026 Science China Press. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42566255
Skipped: PubMed ID 42566096 is a review article
Astrocytes play essential roles in maintaining brain homeostasis, regulating synaptic transmission, supporting neuronal metabolism, and preserving blood-brain barrier integrity. Following prolonged seizures, such as status epilepticus (SE), astrocytes undergo structural and molecular changes that may contribute to epileptogenesis. Although reactive astrogliosis after SE is well documented, the temporal dynamics of astrocytic cytoskeletal remodeling and its relationship to complement activation remain incompletely defined. Using a pilocarpine-induced SE rat model, we examined hippocampal astrocyte responses at multiple time points (4 h, 1 day, 3 days, and 1-, 2-, 3-, or 5-weeks post-SE). Glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) distribution was assessed by immunohistochemistry (IHC), and total GFAP protein levels and cleavage were quantified by western blotting (WB). We further evaluated the cellular association between GFAP-positive astrocytes and complement component C3 by immunofluorescence (IF). IHC revealed progressive astrocytic hypertrophy and increased GFAP immunoreactivity in the CA1 region, peaking at 2-3 weeks post-SE and modestly declining by 5 weeks. In contrast, WB demonstrated sustained elevations in total GFAP protein from 2 to 5 weeks post-SE, accompanied by significant accumulation of GFAP cleavage fragments. Quantitative analysis of GFAP breakdown products revealed progressive proteolytic processing during the latent-to-chronic phases of epileptogenesis. IF showed robust colocalization of C3 within hypertrophic GFAP-positive astrocytes at 2-3 weeks post-SE. When integrated with our prior mapping of microglial activation and complement dynamics, these findings indicate that astrocytic GFAP upregulation and cleavage follow early microglial activation and parallel sustained complement C3 expression. Together, our results demonstrate that SE induces dynamic and persistent astrocytic cytoskeletal remodeling characterized by coordinated GFAP synthesis and proteolysis, along with complement association. These findings highlight GFAP cleavage as a potential marker of astrocytic stress post-SE and support a temporally integrated astroglial-complement response following SE.© 2026. The Author(s).
Nitrogen-centered radicals (NCRs) provide direct access to C─N bonds, but their broader use remains limited by the need for strongly reducing photocatalysts, high-energy irradiation, and incomplete control over competing radical transfer pathways. Here we show that nonafluoromesitylsulfonyl (Nms)-substituted oxycarbamates represent a redox-lowered class of amidyl-radical precursors that can be activated under green light by a bichromophoric ruthenium photocatalyst. The electron-deficient sulfonyl group lowers the reduction potential of the N─O bond sufficiently to enable single-electron cleavage under mild conditions. In DMF, the resulting amidyl radicals are trapped directly by indolizines to provide C3-aminated heteroarenes. In DMSO, higher N-alkyl homologues are switched via a 1,2-hydrogen atom transfer (HAT) to α-amino carbon-centered radicals, enabling C─C bond formation from the same precursor family. This solvent-gated divergence provides a unified entry to aminated and alkylated indolizines and establishes redox-tuned oxycarbamates as versatile radical precursors for long-wavelength photoredox synthesis.© 2026 The Author(s). Chemistry – A European Journal published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder is an autoimmune demyelinating disease that usually targets the spinal cord and optic nerves, though occasionally other central nervous system structures are involved. There are variants of neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder that can mimic metabolic or osmotic demyelinating diseases on imaging. A 54-year-old female with a history of hypertension and Roux-en-Y bypass presented with numbness, weakness, dizziness, and blurred vision and concurrent severe hyponatremia (serum sodium 115 mmol/L). She was admitted and treated for monitored correction of her symptomatic hyponatremia and was discharged after stabilization. Weeks following discharge, she had onset of new neurological symptoms and brain magnetic resonance imaging revealed increased fluid-attenuated inversion recovery signal in the bilateral mammillary bodies and dorsal columns of the upper cervical spinal cord, patchy enhancement at the cervicomedullary junction, and a lesion at C2-C3. Cerebrospinal fluid studies were unremarkable. While osmotic demyelination was suspected initially based on the history of profound hyponatremia and distribution of lesions, further neurologic assessment confirmed neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder. To our knowledge, only 1 other case of mammillary body involvement in AQP4-positive neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder presenting in the setting of severe hyponatremia and with close radiographic resemblance to osmotic demyelination syndrome has been reported. In summary, our case demonstrates radiographic mimicry of osmotic demyelination syndrome by neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder. Consideration of neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder should be maintained on the differential diagnosis of patients with mammillary body and cervicomedullary lesions following hyponatremia, especially with regard to the presence of enhancement and progression of lesions.© 2026 The Author(s).
Membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis (MPGN) is a histopathological pattern that represents a spectrum of glomerular injury diseases. MPGN is usually associated with infections, autoimmune diseases and monoclonal gammopathies. Monoclonal gammopathy of renal significance (MGRS) is any proliferative B-cell or plasma-cell disease that causes abnormal buildup of monoclonal proteins in the kidneys. It is usually underdiagnosed due to its rarity. We present a case of a 74-year-old woman referred to nephrology with worsening creatinine levels, proteinuria and microscopic hematuria. Laboratory evaluation showed low C3 levels and elevated serum free light chain ratio. Kidney biopsy showed immune deposits consistent with cryoglobulinemic glomerulonephritis secondary to MGRS. Patient was treated with prednisone and mycophenolate mofetil, resulting in improvement in the creatinine functions, proteinuria, and hematuria.Copyright 2026 Authors.
Clear cell renal cell carcinoma exhibits striking intra-tumoral heterogeneity at morphological and genetic levels, complicating treatment and contributing to disease progression. CcRCCs with rhabdoid differentiation are highly aggressive tumors characterized by distinct histopathologies. However, the relationship between morphology, underlying molecular alterations, and tumor behavior remains largely unclear. Here, we present Deep Visual Multi-Omics, an approach integrating digital pathology, morphology-guided single-cell isolation, and ultra-sensitive multi-omics profiling to link cell morphologies to their molecular underpinnings. Across five tumors, we profiled ~40,000 AI-classified and expert-curated cells. We identified progressive molecular dysregulation across cells with increasing histopathological grade coexisting within heterogeneous tumors as well as distinct molecular alterations associated with aggressive rhabdoid ccRCC cells, including signatures consistent with enhanced FOXM1-driven proliferation, altered cell-matrix interactions, and a putative immunomodulatory phenotype. Notably, rhabdoid cells exhibited elevated expression of IFN-beta, PD-L1, CD38, ITGB2, and integrin signaling, suggesting that they themselves may act as a source of signals influencing the local immune microenvironment. Besides providing new insights into the biology of ccRCC and highlighting avenues for future translational studies, this illustrates the potential of Deep Visual Multi-omics to dissect cancer heterogeneity and characterize high-risk cell populations.© 2026. The Author(s).
Retrospective cohort study.To compare three cervical sarcopenia metrics and frailty as preoperative predictors of unfavorable postoperative outcomes following surgical fixation of odontoid fractures.Sarcopenia is increasingly recognized as an indicator of physiologic vulnerability in spine surgery and thoracolumbar trauma. However, its prognostic significance in odontoid fractures remains unclear, and no previous study has directly compared cervical sarcopenia measurement sites in this population.Adult patients who underwent surgical fixation of traumatic odontoid fractures at a single level I trauma center were retrospectively reviewed. Sarcopenia was quantified on perioperative computed tomography using sternocleidomastoid, prevertebral, and paraspinal cross-sectional area normalized to the C3 vertebral body area. Frailty was assessed using the 5-factor modified frailty index (mFI-5), with hypertension status confirmed through a review of prescribed medications. Associations with postoperative outcomes were evaluated using threshold-based analyses, intercorrelation testing, subgroup analysis of combined low-sarcopenia/high-frailty patients, and an exploratory Combined Sarcopenia-Frailty Score.This study included 61 patients (mean age, 61.7 years; 50.8% female). The three sarcopenia metrics were only modestly intercorrelated (Spearman rho, 0.34-0.47), with 46.7%-53.3% overlap among patients in the most sarcopenic quartiles. No individual sarcopenia or mFI-5 threshold independently predicted postoperative outcomes. However, patients in the most sarcopenic quartile on any cervical metric with an mFI-5 ≥2 (n=11) experienced higher rates of mortality, urinary tract infection, pneumonia, and nonunion. In exploratory receiver operating characteristic analysis, the Combined Sarcopenia-Frailty Score exhibited moderate discrimination for significant adverse events, with an area under the curve of 0.73 and an optimal threshold of ≥9.Cervical sarcopenia and frailty were not independently associated with adverse outcomes following odontoid fracture fixation. However, their combination identified patients at substantially higher risk for mortality, complications, and nonunion, supporting a potential role for combined preoperative risk stratification (Level of Evidence: level III).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42566840 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565396 is a review article
We examined the role of HBsAg isoforms to predict HBsAg seroclearance or finite treatment among patients with chronic hepatitis B (CHB) infection who stopped long-term nucleoside analogue (NUC).This prospective study recruited patients with HBeAg-negative non-cirrhotic CHB on ≥3 years of first-line NUC with NUC cessation. NUC was resumed upon clinical relapse (CR) or major virological rebound (mVR). HBV biomarkers were measured at baseline, CR or mVR (if any), and end-of-follow-up. The primary outcome was HBsAg seroclearance (defined as <0.05 IU/mL). Patients were followed up for ≥1 year after NUC cessation (without CR/mVR) or ≥1 year after ALT normalization (with CR/mVR), whichever was later. Finite treatment was defined as a state of no virological relapse (VR), i.e., persistent HBV DNA <2000 IU/mL or HBsAg seroclearance.Among 51 patients who completed study (median age 50.1, 62.7% male, baseline qHBsAg 298 IU/mL with 25.5% <100 IU/mL, median NUC duration 7.38 years; median follow-up 91 weeks), 6 patients developed HBsAg seroclearance at weeks 20, 24, 48, 81, 91 and 96, with an event rate of 11.7%. Baseline small HBsAg [SHBs] was predictive of HBsAg seroclearance (HR 0.205, 95% CI 0.082-0.514) and identified 62.5% patients who achieved HBsAg seroclearance when combined with criteria of quantitative HBsAg (qHBsAg) <100 IU/mL. Fifteen patients fulfilled finite treatment criteria, which was associated with low baseline SHBs (HR 3.471, 95% CI 1.132-10.647) and the presence of hepatic steatosis (HR 4.077, 95% CI 1.374-12.098). No patients developed hepatic decompensation.Baseline small HBs (SHBs) levels, in addition to quantitative HBsAg levels, were predictive of HBsAg seroclearance. SHBs levels and hepatic steatosis were associated with finite treatment following nucleoside analogue cessation.Stopping long-term nucleoside analogue (NUC) is one of the strategies to enhance host control to hepatitis B virus and target for functional cure. In addition to quantitative HBsAg (qHBsAg) levels, we explored the role of HBsAg isoforms in predicting off-therapy outcomes in this prospective cohort study involving Asian patients with chronic hepatitis B infection. Low small HBs, a surrogate marker of integrated DNA-derived HBsAg, was predictive of off-NUC HBsAg seroclearance and identified 62.5% patients who would develop HBsAg seroclearance when combined with qHBsAg <100 IU/mL. Finite treatment, defined as either HBsAg seroclearance or viral load maintained below 2,000 IU/mL after NUC cessation, was associated with low baseline SHBs and presence of hepatic steatosis. Combining qHBsAg <100 IU/mL with low baseline SHBs identified 87.5% patients who could achieve finite treatment. These findings are most compelling to hepatologists and other clinicians managing patients with chronic hepatitis B infection on NUC or researchers conducting clinical trials. The findings are of academic relevance to researchers to investigate the correlation between SHBs expression with intrahepatic viral reservoir as well as the immunological basis behind virological control after NUC cessation. However, the study was limited by a relatively small sample size and the inclusion of purely Asian patients, requiring confirmation in larger cohorts for validation of findings before incorporation into clinical guidelines.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Hyaluronic acid (HA) hydrogels generally exhibit poor resistance to moist heat sterilization. Modification with a single metal element (ME) fails to synergistically optimize multiple functional properties. The destructive impact of terminal sterilization on hydrogel network integrity has often been overlooked in the biomedical hydrogel field, which may hinder clinical translation. To address these challenges, this study developed a ternary ME co-crosslinked HA hydrogel incorporating Mg2 +/Zn2+/Fe3+. The formulation was optimized using Box-Behnken response surface methodology. Moist heat sterilization at 121℃ for 12 min, corresponding to a sterility assurance level (SAL) ≤ 10-6, was incorporated into the formulation optimization and performance evaluation process. Rheological measurements confirmed that the ME-crosslinked hydrogels retained suitable mechanical properties for wound dressing application after sterilization. In vivo experiments demonstrated that the M-ME@Gel achieved rapid hemostasis, with a hemostatic time of 28.0 ± 5.86 s and blood loss of 57.93 ± 11.71 mg. It also accelerated wound closure, resulting in near-complete healing in mice by day 11 and a wound-closure rate of 97.72 ± 1.93% in rabbits by day 14. This study provides a strategy for enhancing the moist heat sterilization resistance of biomedical hydrogels, and offers a reference for the translational development of wound dressing.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The impact of baseline liver fibrosis severity on the effectiveness of pegylated interferon (Peg-IFN) combined with nucleos(t)ide analogs (NAs) in the treatment of hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg)-positive chronic hepatitis B (CHB) has not been fully clarified. This study aimed to investigate whether the effectiveness of this combination therapy differed according to the severity of baseline liver fibrosis.A total of 172 HBeAg-positive CHB patients receiving Peg-IFN plus NAs were stratified according to non-invasive fibrosis markers (aspartate aminotransferase-to-platelet ratio index [APRI] and fibrosis-4 index [FIB-4]) into three groups: no significant fibrosis (n = 75), significant fibrosis (n = 70), and advanced fibrosis/cirrhosis (n = 27). The primary outcome was the HBeAg clearance rate at 24 months of treatment. Secondary outcomes included the hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) clearance rate, the rate of HBsAg level decline > 1.0 log10, virological response, and improvement in non-invasive fibrosis indices.At 24 months, HBsAg clearance and complete virological response rates were comparable across the three groups. Cumulative HBeAg clearance rates differed significantly (log-rank P = 0.027): 16.00%, 30.00%, and 40.74% in the three groups, respectively, with Group 3 higher than Groups 1 and 2. Multivariate analysis identified a significantly higher likelihood of HBeAg clearance in Group 3 versus Group 1 (adjusted odds ratio = 6.373, 95% confidence interval: 1.288-31.531, P = 0.023). Additionally, analysis of liver fibrosis outcomes showed that patients with more severe baseline fibrosis had a higher proportion of improvement in non-invasive fibrosis indices, with 95.00% in Group 3, while 42.98% of the overall cohort achieved fibrosis improvement.Baseline fibrosis severity is associated with higher HBeAg clearance and greater improvement in non-invasive fibrosis indices during Peg-IFN plus NAs therapy in HBeAg-positive CHB.© 2026 Authors.
Predictors of target lesion failure (TLF) after percutaneous coronary intervention with drug-coated balloon therapy in patients with in-stent restenosis, as opposed to de novo disease, are limited. This post hoc analysis of the AGENT IDE trial (Agent Paclitaxel-Coated PTCA Balloon Catheter for the Treatment of Subjects With In-Stent Restenosis) aimed to identify predictors of TLF in patients with in-stent restenosis treated with a paclitaxel-coated balloon.Of the 600 patients with in-stent restenosis in the AGENT IDE trial, 406 were randomized to treatment with the paclitaxel-coated balloon. Among this cohort, demographic, clinical, and core laboratory angiographic data were assessed using a Cox proportional hazards model to identify independent predictors of TLF, defined as the composite occurrence of ischemia-driven target lesion revascularization, target vessel-related myocardial infarction, or cardiac death, at 2-year follow-up.Independent risk factors for 2-year TLF, which occurred in 106 (27.0%) of patients, included multiple stent layers (hazard ratio, 1.80 [95% CI, 1.23-2.65]), White race (hazard ratio, 1.71 [95% CI, 1.03-2.85]), and postlesion preparation in-lesion % diameter stenosis (per 10% increment; hazard ratio, 1.16 [95% CI, 1.03-1.31]). The presence of the target lesion in the left anterior descending artery was associated with a reduced risk of 2-year TLF (hazard ratio, 0.56 [95% CI, 0.36-0.87]).Our findings highlight the variable risk of in-stent restenosis governed by relatively few patient and lesion factors and underscore the significance of optimal lesion preparation before drug-coated balloon therapy as a potentially modifiable factor.URL: https://www.clinicaltrials.gov; Unique identifier: NCT04647253.
Diabetic retinopathy (DR) requires robust biomarkers. To overcome the limitations of bulk sequencing, we integrated single-cell eQTL mapping with Mendelian randomization to identify causal cell populations and genes. CD8 Teff cells were expanded in peripheral blood, showing elevation in non-DR diabetes and reaching maximal levels in DR. Mendelian randomization analysis implicated IL2RB as a putative causal marker, with the lead eQTL SNP rs3184504 demonstrating strong association (p = 8.5467 × 10-18). Colocalization analysis with DR GWAS and validation in bulk data reinforced this signal. In tissues, CellChat predicted more interactions for IL2RB+ compared to IL2RB- CD8 Teff cells, including IL16-CD4 with macrophages and NAMPT interactions with both ITGA5+ITGB1 and INSR on endothelial cells, implicating immune-vascular regulation. Together, these findings nominate IL2RB as a biomarker and therapeutic target while clarifying mechanisms underlying DR.
To investigate the effectiveness of spectacle lenses with highly aspherical lenslets (HAL) and orthokeratology (ortho-k) for myopia control and the change in the interocular axial length (AL) difference in binocular anisomyopic children over 1-year in a real-world setting.Retrospective analysis of 74 bilateral anisomyopes (8-14 years; 39 HAL, 35 ortho-k). Axial elongation (AE) and interocular AL difference were compared in both groups; spherical equivalent refraction (SER), spherical refraction (SR), refractive astigmatism (RA) and corneal astigmatism (CA) were evaluated for the HAL group.AE in the more myopic eye (MME) of the HAL group was significantly greater than the ortho-k group (0.24 ± 0.17 vs. 0.15 ± 0.15 mm, p = 0.007). However, the opposite finding was observed in the less myopic eye (LME) (0.20 ± 0.14 vs. 0.29 ± 0.23 mm, p = 0.01). The interocular AL difference was reduced in the ortho-k group (0.69 ± 0.41 vs. 0.54 ± 0.32 mm, p = 0.007), whereas no significant change was found in the HAL group (p = 0.09). AE was associated with baseline SER (β = 0.08, p = 0.008) in the ortho-k group and age (β = -0.04, p = 0.001) in the HAL group. The MME in the HAL group showed larger changes in SER (-0.39 ± 0.31 vs. -0.27 ± 0.30 D) and CA (-0.21 ± 0.29 vs. -0.11 ± 0.25 D) than the LME (both p ≤ 0.03). The change in SER was positively associated with age and baseline SER (β = 0.08; β = 0.07, both p ≤ 0.02) in the HAL group.Ortho-k reduced AE, more so in the MME and reduced the interocular AL asymmetry. HAL slowed AE symmetrically, with greater control in older and less-myopic children.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to The College of Optometrists.
Pain control in severe burns remains challenging due to physiological factors affecting drug metabolism and efficacy. This study characterizes the most frequent combinations of pain medication, dosages of opioids and non-opioids over time, and their correlation with pain management in adults.A single-center retrospective analysis of patients ≥ 18 years of age admitted to University of North Carolina Jaycee Burn Center with ≥ 20% total body surface area (TBSA) burn injury between 2020 and 2024 was performed. Records were abstracted for demographics, prescription pain medication management, and numerical rating scale (NRS) pain scores. Generalized linear and mixed models assessed average daily pain scores and morphine milligram equivalents (MME), adjusted for age, TBSA burn, and inhalation injury.140 patients were included (age: 32 ± 7 years; 72% male; TBSA burn 37 ± 19% [range: 20-98%]; length of stay: 42 ± 54 days; 19% inhalation injury). 88% survived and most injuries were flame-related (76%). Opioid-only regimens accounted for 7% of prescribing medications, non-opioid-only 15%, and multimodal regimens 78%. Acetaminophen and hydromorphone were most frequently administered (17%), followed by acetaminophen, hydromorphone, and oxycodone (14%) and acetaminophen, fentanyl, and oxycodone (13%). Patients receiving multimodal or opioid-only regimens demonstrated lower and more stable pain trajectories than those receiving non-opioids alone. Hydromorphone use increased with burn severity and was highest in patients with > 80% TBSA. Although opioid requirements declined over time, patients with burns > 40% TBSA had significantly higher MME at day 25 compared with moderate burns (451 ± 980 vs 237 ± 388; p = 0.023).Multimodal analgesia predominated and was associated with improved pain stability. Persistent opioid requirements in larger burns highlight the impact of burn-related metabolic alterations and support development of individualized analgesic strategies to optimize dosing and reduce prolonged opioid exposure.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd and International Society of Burns Injuries. All rights reserved.
BackgroundPrimary squamous cell carcinoma of the breast is an extremely rare subtype of metaplastic breast carcinoma, often showing aggressive clinical behavior and posing diagnostic challenges, particularly when acantholysis is present and mimics vascular neoplasms.Patient presentationWe report a 49-year-old woman presenting with a rapidly growing palpable mass in the outer quadrant of the left breast. Initial cytology yielded keratin debris interpreted as benign. Following inflammatory changes, the lesion was excised with a clinical pre-diagnosis of granulomatous mastitis. Gross examination revealed an 8 × 7 × 7 cm partial mastectomy specimen containing a 6 × 5 × 4 cm firm, cystically and hemorrhagically degenerated, irregularly circumscribed tumor adjacent to but not continuous with the overlying skin. Microscopically, the tumor consisted of infiltrating nests of squamous epithelial cells with widespread acantholysis and single-cell keratinization, moderate nuclear atypia, and absence of lymphovascular or perineural invasion. Associated ductal carcinoma in situ was identified. Immunohistochemically, the tumor cells expressed pan-keratin, keratin 5/6, keratin 14, p63, CD10 (MME), and EGFR, while ER, PR, HER2, and GATA3 were negative. Ki-67 (MKI67) proliferation index was approximately 10%. Final diagnosis was primary acantholytic squamous cell carcinoma of the breast.ConclusionThis patient highlights the importance of thorough histopathologic and immunohistochemical evaluation to distinguish acantholytic squamous cell carcinoma of the breast from vascular mimics and other metaplastic carcinomas. The basal-like, hormone-receptor negative, HER2-negative, and low proliferative profile in this tumor underscores the heterogeneity of primary squamous cell carcinoma of the breast and the need for individualized treatment strategies.
The expansion and pathogenic differentiation of intermediate monocytes (IMs) are critical yet poorly understood events in psoriasis pathogenesis. Here, we identify the transcription factor PU.1 (encoded by SPI1) as a master regulator driving IM-mediated psoriasiform inflammation. Single-cell RNA sequencing and flow cytometry of peripheral blood mononuclear cells revealed expansion of IMs in psoriasis patients, with PU.1 uncovered as its specific regulator. Myeloid-specific ablation of Spi1 in mice ameliorated imiquimod-induced psoriasiform dermatitis. Mechanistically, PU.1 promoted IMs differentiation into pro-inflammatory M1 macrophages by transcriptionally upregulating Dectin-1, thereby activating the SYK/NF-κB pathway. We further discovered that the clinical-stage bromodomain and extra-terminal domain inhibitor NHWD-870 effectively suppressed PU.1 expression. Oral administration of NHWD-870 demonstrated potent efficacy in murine psoriasis models by disrupting this PU.1-dependent IMs differentiation. Our findings establish PU.1 as a novel therapeutic target for psoriasis and propose that pharmacologic inhibition of PU.1 represents a promising treatment strategy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
To explore the specific molecular mechanisms of CD19 CAR-Macrophage (CD19 CAR-M) in treating Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma (DLBCL).Differential expression and pathway enrichment analyses of GEO dataset GSE66770 were performed to construct a SYK/SHP2/TBK1/TFEB interaction network. CD19 CAR-M were generated by lentiviral transduction of THP-1-derived macrophage-like cells and co-cultured with U2932 cells. CCK-8, colony formation and Transwell assays were used to evaluate U2932 proliferation, invasion and migration; IL-6 and IFN-γ levels were measured by ELISA; ROS was detected by DHE staining. RT-qPCR quantified macrophage markers CD14 (M0), CD163 and CD206 (M2), and M1 marker IL-12. Western blot analyzed p-SYK, p-SHP2, NOX2, p-TBK1, TFEB, LC3B and phosphorylated/total protein ratios; immunofluorescence assessed endosomal markers EEA1 and LAMP1. Phagocytosis was evaluated by fluorescent microsphere assay; U2932 apoptosis was determined by flow cytometry after FcγR blockade. Flow cytometry was additionally performed to validate the maintenance of macrophage phenotype, CAR transduction efficiency, and the purity of cell separation after co-culture. NOD-scid mouse DLBCL xenografts were subjected to in vivo imaging for therapeutic validation.Bioinformatic analysis identified TBK1 as a key immune-evasion node positively correlated with SYK and negatively with SHP2. Flow cytometric analysis confirmed successful construction of the CD19 CAR-M cell model, with stable macrophage phenotype and specific CAR expression. CD19 CAR-M significantly inhibited U2932 proliferation, invasion and migration, elevated IL-6, IFN-γ and ROS, and induced M1 polarization. Phosphorylation of SYK/SHP2/TBK1/TFEB axis proteins and LC3B expression were markedly increased; EEA1/LAMP1 fluorescence intensities were enhanced. Fluovrescent microsphere uptake was elevated and reversible by FcγR inhibitor elsubrutinib, accompanied by increased U2932 late-apoptosis rate. In vivo experiments confirmed that CD19 CAR-M reduced tumor burden via activation of the SYK/SHP2/TBK1/TFEB axis.CD19 CAR-M kills DLBCL through macrophage phagocytosis mediated by the SYK/SHP2/TBK1/TFEB axis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
[This corrects the article DOI: 10.34133/research.1018.].Copyright © 2026 Zijian Chen et al.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42560713
Skipped: PubMed ID 42560134 is a review article
Microglia are key players in Alzheimer's disease, but the transcriptional control of their phagocytic function remains unclear. Kim et al. show that mouse microglial Spi1 deletion worsens amyloid pathology by impairing Aβ clearance through Syk, Lyn, and Fcgr1, providing new insight into PU.1-dependent regulatory networks and microglial functions in neurodegeneration.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The TREM2 receptor is a well-known rheostat for inflammation and immunity, but its role in host defense against parasitic infection is only just emerging. We investigated the function of TREM2 during acute Toxoplasma gondii infection by comparing TREM2-deficient and C57BL/6 wild-type (WT) mice during intraperitoneal infection with type II (Prugniaud strain) T. gondii. Infected TREM2 knockout (KO) mice had significantly increased mortality and elevated parasite burden during acute infection, as well as increased liver pathology and higher levels of inflammatory cytokines IL-1α, IL-6, and IL-17A by 7 days post-infection (dpi). Notably, we observed an early expansion and dissemination of T. gondii in infected macrophages in the omentum in TREM2 KO compared to WT mice, and this phenotype was specific to TREM2 deficiency on radiation-sensitive cells, based on bone marrow chimera experiments. In vitro, TREM2 KO macrophages were more permissive to T. gondii infection and exhibited reduced LAMP1 upregulation and impaired phagocytotic clearance of T. gondii compared to WT macrophages. TREM2 deficiency has been previously associated with elevated ERK signaling and defective lysosomal activity, and we found that treatment of TREM2 KO macrophages with the ERK inhibitor SCH772984 rescued LAMP1 expression and improved macrophage control of the parasites. Finally, RNA sequencing of myeloid cells isolated from the peritoneal cavity of infected mice at 3 dpi revealed increased transcripts associated with inflammation and decreased transcripts associated with cellular migration in the TREM2 KO compared to WT mice. These findings demonstrate a critical role for TREM2 in the early antimicrobial immune response to T. gondii infection by limiting parasite expansion, dissemination, and pathological inflammation in the infected host.Copyright: © 2026 Debray et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Enterovirus A71 (EV-A71), a member of the genus Enterovirus within the family Picornaviridae, induces neuroinflammation; however, the underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood. This study demonstrates that the C5a-C5aR1 axis plays a pivotal role in EV-A71-induced blood-brain barrier (BBB) disruption and neuroinflammation, primarily by regulating neutrophil migration. Using human brain specimens and a mouse model, we observed pronounced inflammatory cell infiltration in the brainstem and BBB disruption following EV-A71 infection. Immunofluorescence analysis revealed robust activation of the C5a-C5aR1 axis in fatal EV-A71 cases. Notably, C5aR1 knockout (KO) mice displayed reduced Evans blue extravasation and preserved tight junction protein expression after infection. Immunopathological examination of fatal human cases further confirmed perivascular neutrophil (CD177⁺) infiltration in the brainstem. Importantly, C5aR1 deficiency significantly attenuated neutrophil accumulation and neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) release. Given that peptidylarginine deiminase 4 (PAD4) is a key enzyme driving NET formation, we generated neutrophil-specific PAD4 knockout mice (PAD4 Ne-KO) by crossing S100A8-Cre and PAD4fl/fl lines. As anticipated, neutrophil-specific PAD4 deletion or pharmacological NET blockade substantially ameliorated BBB injury and neuroinflammation following EV-A71 infection. Overall, our findings underscore a critical role for the C5a-C5aR1-neutrophil/NETs pathway in EV-A71 encephalitis pathogenesis and support its targeting as a therapeutic strategy for critically ill patients.Copyright: © 2026 Zhu et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Endometriosis (EMS) is characterised by a disrupted peritoneal immune microenvironment where M2 macrophage polarization and impaired phagocytosis promote lesion survival. Single-cell RNA-seq (ScRNAseq) of the peritoneal macrophages from EMS patient revealed elevated Triggering Receptor Expressed on Myeloid cells 2 (TREM2) and signal regulatory protein α (SIRPα). The expression of TREM2 and SIRPa is positively correlated, and each are positively correlated with estrogen response. Mouse EMS model was established by intraperitoneal injection of estrogen primed mouse endometrial fragments into recipient female mice. In vitro estrogen treatment of RAW 264.7 cells indicated an increasing TREM2/SIRPα expression and enhancing phagocytosis of lesion cells derived from WT EMS ectopic lesions. Peritoneal macrophage from mice with EMS were analyzed using flow cytometry for the expression of TREM2 and SIRPα. The assessment of F4/80, CD206, and SIRPα expressing cells within the lesions were performed through the implementation of multi-color immunohistochemistry (mIHC). Small peritoneal macrophages (SpMs, F4/80low CD11blow) were markedly increased in the EMS model. Trem2 knockout mice, as the recipient, showed smaller ectopic lesion size and less lesion formation. TREM2 deficiency inhibited SpM polarization into M2 and downregulated their SIRPα expression, while enhancing phagocytic activity. Mechanistically, estrogen pretreatment upregulated TREM2, which correlated with SIRPα upregulation and impaired phagocytosis. Under estrogen exposure, TREM2 knockdown RAW 264.7 cells potentiated phagocytosis. Thus, TREM2 is an important contributing pathogenic factor in promoting EMS by enhancing M2 polarization and suppressing phagocytosis via SIRPα upregulation.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for the Study of Reproduction. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
To investigate the role of Nuclear receptor subfamily 5, group A, member 2 (NR5A2) in the seasonal regulation of follicle development in striped hamsters (Cricetulus barabensis), we collected 32 adult females, eight individuals from each season (spring, summer, autumn, and winter). Hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining was performed to quantify seasonal variations in follicle numbers across distinct developmental stages. Serum concentrations of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH), follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), and luteinizing hormone (LH), as well as fecal concentrations of estradiol (E2) and progesterone (P4), were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Ovarian NR5A2 mRNA levels were quantified by real-time quantitative PCR (qPCR). Spearman's correlation analyses were conducted to examine associations between ovarian NR5A2 mRNA levels and follicle counts at each developmental stage, as well as between NR5A2 mRNA levels and serum and fecal reproductive hormone concentrations. The numbers of follicles at different developmental stages and ovarian NR5A2 mRNA levels exhibit pronounced seasonal variation (P < 0.01). Specifically, primary follicle counts peak in winter, whereas secondary and antral follicle numbers reach their seasonal minima during this period. Concurrently, ovarian NR5A2 mRNA levels in winter are significantly lower than those in spring, summer, and autumn (P < 0.01). Serum concentrations of GnRH, FSH, and LH, as well as fecal concentrations of E2 and P4, also display significant seasonal differences, all five hormones being markedly lower in winter compared with the other three seasons (P < 0.01). Furthermore, NR5A2 mRNA levels and fecal E2 and P4 concentrations were negatively correlated with primary follicle number but positively correlated with secondary and antral follicle numbers, suggesting that NR5A2, E2, and P4 collectively facilitate the transition from the primary to more advanced follicle stages. These findings indicate that winter environmental conditions suppress overall follicle development in striped hamsters, and the concomitant downregulation of ovarian NR5A2, correlating significantly with follicle counts, suggests a functionally relevant role for this transcription factor in seasonal follicle development. These results provide a theoretical foundation for ecologically sustainable population management strategies, supporting the rational design of targeted interventions, such as pharmacological agents, that selectively modulate population size in the target species while minimizing off-target effects on non-target organisms.© 2026. The Author(s).
Lymph node (LN) metastasis is a critical indicator of poor prognosis in breast cancer (BC). BC-derived exosomes influence intercellular communication within the tumor microenvironment, driving metastatic progression. However, the precise mechanisms by which exosomes facilitate LN metastasis in BC remain unclear. We performed small RNA sequencing on serum exosomes to identify Piwi-interacting RNAs (piRNAs) associated with BC LN metastasis. Functional investigations of exosomal piR-hsa-28212 included in vitro assays for migration and tube formation of human lymphatic endothelial cells (HLECs), alongside an in vivo footpad-popliteal LN metastasis model. Specific interactions between piR-hsa-28212 and TBX1 (T-box transcription factor 1), as well as TBX1 and VEGF receptor 3 (VEGFR3), were validated through luciferase reporter assays. The stability of TBX1 mRNA was analyzed by actinomycin D assay. RNA pulldown, RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP), and RNA fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) assays were conducted to explore the interaction between piR-hsa-28212 and METTL3. PiR-hsa-28212 was significantly upregulated in serum exosomes of BC patients with LN metastasis. Exosomal piR-hsa-28212 enhanced HLECs migration and tube formation in vitro and promoted lymphangiogenesis and LN metastasis in vivo. Mechanistically, exosomal piR-hsa-28212 transferred from BC cells to HLECs stabilized TBX1 mRNA, thereby upregulating VEGFR3 expression. In BC cells, piR-hsa-28212 directly bound to and stabilized METTL3 protein, modulating N6-methyladenosine (m6A) methylation of vascular endothelial growth factor C (VEGFC) mRNA and consequently increasing VEGFC expression and secretion. Collectively, these findings reveal an exosome-mediated piRNA regulatory mechanism that synergistically amplifies VEGFC/VEGFR3 signaling to drive LN metastasis in BC, highlighting piR-hsa-28212 as a potential therapeutic target. Trial Registration: KYLL-2022-338.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Science published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.
Neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) is a key component of the standard treatment regimen for patients with advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC); however, a substantial proportion of patients fail to benefit from NAC because of intrinsic or acquired chemoresistance, leading to disease progression. Aberrant promoter methylation of tumor suppressor genes has been implicated in the diminished chemotherapy response in patients with ESCC. In this study, we show that hypermethylation of the CpG island of the T-box Transcription Factor 1 (TBX1) promoter is frequently associated with nonresponse to NAC in patients with ESCC. Functional experiments indicate that TBX1 suppresses ESCC cell proliferation, induces apoptosis, and increases cisplatin sensitivity. Mechanistically, TBX1 activates the Hippo signaling pathway through two complementary mechanisms: transcriptional upregulation of MST1 and LATS1 and inhibition of F-actin polymerization. Restoration of TBX1 expression enhances chemosensitivity and reduces tumor growth in vivo. Collectively, our findings suggest that TBX1 promoter hypermethylation has the potential to serve as a predictive biomarker of the NAC response in ESCC and define an epigenetic mechanism in which TBX1 silencing contributes to chemoresistance through impairment of Hippo pathway activation. These results suggest that modulating TBX1 expression and Hippo pathway activity represents a potential therapeutic strategy for overcoming chemoresistance in ESCC.© 2026. The Author(s).
The early identification of patients with sepsis among those presenting with suspected infection in the emergency department (ED) remains challenging. Delta-like canonical Notch ligand-1 (DLL-1), a Notch pathway ligand involved in immune and endothelial signaling, has been shown to reflect disease severity and outcomes in ICU-based sepsis cohorts. Its value for early risk stratification at ED presentation is less well defined.We analyzed DLL-1 concentrations in serum samples from a prospectively enrolled ED cohort of adults presenting with clinically suspected acute infection. Blood samples were obtained during the initial clinical assessment. Sepsis was defined according to Sepsis-3 criteria and adjudicated by an expert panel, including evaluation of organ dysfunction within 72 h after presentation. DLL-1 concentrations were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), and diagnostic performance was assessed using AUROC analysis.Among 300 enrolled patients, 74 (24.7%) were classified as having sepsis. DLL-1 concentrations were significantly higher in patients with sepsis than in those without sepsis (median 11,454 vs. 8,085 pg/mL; p < 0.001). DLL-1 demonstrated moderate discriminatory performance for sepsis at ED presentation (AUROC 0.69, 95% CI 0.62-0.76). Performance was lower than that of procalcitonin and NEWS2 but comparable to C-reactive protein and lactate. DLL-1 showed a moderate correlation with SOFA score. Importantly, correlations with CRP and white blood cell count were nonsignificant.When measured at ED presentation, DLL-1 concentrations are elevated in patients with sepsis but showed only moderate diagnostic performance. These findings are consistent with earlier disease stages and lower degrees of organ dysfunction compared with ICU populations. DLL-1 may offer complementary host-response information beyond established biomarkers, but does not support stand-alone use for early sepsis diagnosis and warrants further evaluation within multimodal risk stratification strategies.DRKS00017395.© 2026. The Author(s).
The generation of hepatocyte-like cells (HLCs) from human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs) holds great promise for drug discovery and cell-based therapy for liver disease. However, current differentiation protocols are complicated and unstable, and the underlying gene regulatory mechanisms of hepatic differentiation remain incompletely defined. Here, we developed a machine learning-based artificial intelligence (AI) tool using phase-contrast images of hepatic progenitor cells (HPCs), which are essential for generating HLCs. The AI tool significantly improves the success rate of hepatic differentiation without the need for immunostaining or lineage tracing. By optimizing the methodology, we achieved an impressive purity of 90 to 95% for HLCs derived from hPSCs, aided by the AI algorithm. Through further investigating transcriptomes and epigenomic changes, we discovered the pivotal roles of nuclear receptor subfamily 5 group A member 2 and activator protein-1 transcription factors in regulating the maturation of hepatocytes. Single-cell RNA sequencing demonstrated the upregulation of nuclear receptor subfamily 5 group A member 2 and activator protein-1 during hepatic differentiation. Importantly, mutation analysis and tumorigenesis assays confirmed the safety of this modified hepatic differentiation protocol. This work highlights the potential of combining AI algorithm and computational genomics to facilitate development of lineage differentiation and molecular mechanism study.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Reproductive efficiency forms the cornerstone of poultry production, yet ovarian oxidative stress and brooding that emerge with advancing age accelerate follicular atresia, leading to ovarian atrophy. This subsequently disrupts ovulation and shortens the laying cycle. Despite its economic implications, the molecular mechanisms linking these processes to granulosa cell (GC) fate remain poorly understood. This study aimed to construct ceRNA regulatory networks and unravel how microRNA-30b-5p (miR-30b-5p) and its target gene nuclear receptor subfamily 5 group A member 2 (NR5A2) regulate GC proliferation and apoptosis in chicken atrophic ovaries. In this study, we found that the ovarian tissue undergoes degeneration, with reduced levels of the hormones follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH), and a significant decrease in ovarian antioxidant activity of broody chickens. Whole-transcriptome sequencing on atrophic ovaries (AO) from 700-day-old Hy-line Gray broody hens and normal ovaries (NO) from actively laying hens identified 260 differentially expressed (DE) lncRNAs, 492 DE circRNAs, 53 DE miRNAs, and 4,493 DE mRNAs. Further, integrative analysis revealed miR-30b-5p as a candidate regulator of GC proliferation and apoptosis. Additionally, functional assays including RT-qPCR, western blotting, flow cytometry, cell counting kit 8 (CCK-8) and 5-ethynyl-20-deoxyuridine (EdU) assay incorporation demonstrated that miR-30b-5p overexpression suppressed GC proliferation (reduced CDK2, Cyclin D1, PCNA, and Bcl-2) and promoted apoptosis (increased Caspase-3 and Caspase-9). Thereafter, target prediction and dual-luciferase reporter assays further confirmed that NR5A2 as a direct target of miR-30b-5p, and that NR5A2 knockdown phenocopied the anti-proliferative and pro-apoptotic effects of miR-30b-5p. Taken together, the findings obtained from this study demonstrate that miR-30b-5p promotes GC apoptosis and inhibits proliferation by targeting NR5A2, thereby contributing to follicular atresia during broodiness in the late laying phase. Targeted modulating of miR-30b-5p may offer a promising strategy to alleviate ovarian atrophy, extend the laying cycle and enhance economic efficiency in poultry production.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is a common genetic cardiovascular disease characterized by significant genetic heterogeneity. While the T-box transcription factor 1 (TBX1) gene is known to cause congenital cardiovascular defects, it has not been previously associated with HCM.Whole-exome sequencing (WES) was performed to identify causative gene mutations in a recently diagnosed Chinese family with HCM. The mutation was confirmed using Sanger sequencing, which was also employed to investigate familial co-segregation. A literature review was conducted to analyze previously reported TBX1 mutations and their associated phenotypes.A novel heterozygous frameshift mutation, TBX1 (NM_080647.1):c.3_27dup (p.Met10Alafs∗167), was identified in affected family members. Familial co-segregation analysis revealed that this mutation correlated with the HCM phenotype. To date, no previous studies have reported an association between TBX1 mutations and HCM, suggesting that this may represent a novel TBX1-related phenotype.This study identifies familial HCM as a new phenotype linked to TBX1 gene mutations. These findings expand the mutation and phenotype spectrum of TBX1 and emphasize the need for further research to understand the mechanisms by which the c.3_27dup (p.Met10Alafs∗167) mutation leads to HCM.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
Current treatments for pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) fall short of meeting clinical needs, highlighting the urgent need for a comprehensive understanding of PDAC progression, which involves not only biochemical signals but also essential biomechanical cues. Here, we used a CRISPR-Cas9 screen in an orthotopic xenograft model to explore PDAC dynamics. The RNA binding protein DEAD-box helicase 3X-linked (DDX3X) was identified as a pivotal oncogene and biomechanical checkpoint. Specifically, DDX3X up-regulation in PDAC promoted tumorigenesis and metastasis, primarily through the transcriptional repressor TLE family member 2 (TLE2). Dysregulation of DDX3X in the tumor destabilized TLE2 messenger RNA and therefore disrupted the interaction with KLF4 (KLF transcription factor 4), leading to increased expression of myosin light chain 9 (MYL9). This change remodeled F-actin, enhancing tumor cell traction forces and consequently facilitating tumor metastasis. Targeting the DDX3X-TLE2-MYL9 pathway considerably reduces PDAC progression. This research reveals a promising approach for treating PDAC by focusing on biomechanical cues.
Nr5a2 (nuclear receptor subfamily 5, group a, member 2) is involved in gonad development and sex hormone synthesis. In this study, the full length of Nr5a2f and Nr5a2m were obtained by Nr5a2 variable splicing from Andrias davidianus, and the tissue distribution was detected. We identified Nr5a2f of 2455 bp and Nr5a2m of 2150 bp length, encoding 479 and 325 amino, respectively. We first characterized Nr5a2f and Nr5a2m gene expression in developing gonads. Results showed that Nr5a2f had significantly high expression in the ovary and little expression in other tissues, during the sex differentiation and sex reversal, Nr5a2f expression was gradually decreased in the ovary and the expression in the testis was significantly lower than in the ovary from 1 year to 6 year old. Significantly high expression was observed in the ovary and reversal ovary, while low expression was in the testis and reversal testis. While Nr5a2m expression exhibited the opposite profile, high expression was observed in the brain and testis. During sex differentiation and sex reversal, high expression was shown in the testis and low expression in the ovary from one year to six years old and significantly higher expression emerged in testis and reversal testis than in ovary and reversal ovary. In situ hybridization, results showed that Nr5a2f began to express in female undifferentiated gonads and the expression level increased from 48 dpf to 91, while Nr5a2m was expressed in male undifferentiated gonads. Three RNA interference sites were designed and we detected that site 293 exhibited a significant inhibitory effect in ovary cells. After Nr5a2f expression was inhibited by site 293, we observed that female-based gene Nr5a2f, foxl2 and cyp19 expression were decreased, while the male-based gene dmrt1 and cyp17 expression was increased. These results suggested that Nr5a2f and Nr5a2m exhibited different expression patterns in the process of sex differentiation, which provided a foundation for further functional characterizations.
Endometriosis (EMS), a chronic inflammatory disease affecting approximately 10 % reproductive aged women, remains etiologically unclear. This study aims to investigate the role and underlying mechanisms of frizzled class receptor 7 (FZD7) in EMS. In vitro, cellular transfection with siRNA or plasmid constructs was employed to modulate FZD7 expression and assess its functional significance. In vivo, an EMS mouse model was established via intraperitoneal injection of endometrial fragments; therapeutic effects of FZD7 inhibition were evaluated using specific inhibitors. FZD7 inhibition significantly promoted the overproduction of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in EMS ectopic cells, increased the level of lipid peroxidation, promoted intracellular Fe2+ accumulation, and altered mitochondrial morphology. Mechanistic studies showed that decreased expression of methyltransferase-like 3 (METTL3) and YTH N6-methyladenosine RNA binding protein 2 (YTHDF2) in EMS led to decreased m6A modification level, decreased degradation, and increased expression in FZD7 mRNA, and caused increased transcription of solute carrier family 7 member 11 (SLC7A11) via β-catenin, which in turn inhibited ferroptosis. We found that inhibition of FZD7 promotes ferroptosis, and that the combination of the FZD7 inhibitor (F7H) and the ferroptosis activator (erastin) in mice most significantly inhibited the progression of EMS.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The WNT signaling pathway has long been implicated in tumorigenesis across multiple cancer types, including breast cancer. However, the complexity arising from the large number of WNTs and their receptors has made it challenging to pinpoint specific components driving tumor development. Using the MMTV-Wnt1 genetically engineered mouse model, which develops mixed-lineage mammary tumors resembling triple-negative breast cancer and composed of both basal and luminal subtypes, we identify the frizzled class receptor 7 (Fzd7) as a key player. Fzd7 is expressed on mammary tumor cells that show enhanced tumorigenic potential in both orthotopic transplantation and tumor organoid assays. Despite the cellular heterogeneity of MMTV-Wnt1 tumors, treatment with a Fzd7-specific antibody-drug conjugate significantly suppresses tumor growth, suggesting that Fzd7-expressing cells are critical drivers of tumor progression. These findings show that Fzd7 marks a population of putative tumor-initiating cells and that targeting Fzd7 offers a promising therapeutic strategy for breast cancer.
To identify the risk factors for neuropathic corneal pain (NCP) following corneal refractive surgery and to report its clinical manifestations, imaging and proteomic characteristics.This 1 year prospective cohort study included 100 eyes that underwent small incision lenticule extraction (SMILE) or laser-assisted in situ keratomileusis (LASIK). Ocular surface assessments, in-vivo confocal microscopy scans, tear neuromediators and proteomics analyses were performed. NCP was assessed using the ocular pain assessment survey. Univariate and multivariate analyses were conducted to identify the risk factors associated with postoperative NCP.The incidence of NCP was 13.3% and 10.5% after SMILE and LASIK, respectively (p=0.70). In SMILE, preoperative manifest refractive spherical equivalent (MRSE) and spherical power (both p=0.02) were significantly higher in the NCP compared with the non-NCP group. In LASIK, NCP eyes had a significantly lower corneal nerve fibre length (CNFL) (p=0.02), lower nerve fractal dimension (p=0.003), higher nerve fibre width (p=0.04) and larger neuroma area (p=0.04) than non-NCP eyes. In SMILE, higher preoperative MRSE was a significant risk factor for postoperative NCP (95% CI: 0.48-1.96, p=0.04). An MRSE greater than -8.0 diopter was 9.57 times more likely to develop postoperative NCP (OR=9.57, p=0.002). In LASIK, lower preoperative corneal nerve fibre density (95% CI:0.13-1.11, p=0.05) and CNFL (95% CI:0.09-1.25, p=0.05) were significant risk factors for postoperative NCP. Significant increases in tear nerve growth factor, calcitonin gene-related peptide, Frizzled class receptor 7 and nucleoside-diphosphate kinase three were observed in postoperative NCP.The reported characteristics and risk factors would identify patients susceptible to NCP after corneal refractive surgery.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2025. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Circular RNA (circRNA) plays key regulatory roles in the development of many diseases. However the biological functions and potential molecular mechanisms of circRNA in the injury and repair of intestinal mucosa in mice after severe burns are yet to be elucidated.Cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8), 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU), wound healing and transwell assays were used to detect cell proliferation and migration ability. Real-time quantitative PCR was used to identify the expression of circRNA, microRNA and messenger RNA. Nuclear and cytoplasmic separation experiments were employed to perceive the location of circRNA_Maml2. Finally, in vitro and in vivo experiments were conducted to study the repairing effect of circRNA_Maml2 on the intestinal mucosa of mice after severe burns.When compared with the control group, the expression of circRNA_Maml2 was significantly reduced in the severe burn group. Furthermore, overexpression of circRNA_Maml2 promoted the proliferation and migration of CT26.wt cells in vivo and the repair of damaged intestinal mucosa in vitro. CircRNA_Maml2 acted as a sponge adsorption molecule for miR-93-3p to enhance the expression of frizzled class receptor 7 and activate the downstream Wnt/β-catenin pathway, thereby promoting the repair of the intestinal mucosa.Our findings demonstrate that circRNA_Maml2 regulates the miR-93-3p/FZD7/Wnt/β-catenin pathway and promotes the repair of damaged intestinal mucosa. Hence, circRNA_Maml2 is a potential therapeutic target to promote intestinal mucosal repair.© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press.
Although WNT signaling is frequently dysregulated in solid tumors, drugging this pathway has been challenging due to off-tumor effects. Current clinical pan-WNT inhibitors are nonspecific and lead to adverse effects, highlighting the urgent need for more specific WNT pathway-targeting strategies. We identified elevated expression of the WNT receptor Frizzled class receptor 7 (FZD7) in multiple solid cancers in The Cancer Genome Atlas, particularly in the mesenchymal and proliferative subtypes of ovarian serous cystadenocarcinoma, which correlate with poorer median patient survival. Moreover, we observed increased FZD7 protein expression in ovarian tumors compared with normal ovarian tissue, indicating that FZD7 may be a tumor-specific antigen. We therefore developed a novel antibody-drug conjugate, septuximab vedotin (F7-ADC), which is composed of a chimeric human-mouse antibody to human FZD7 conjugated to the microtubule-inhibiting drug monomethyl auristatin E (MMAE). F7-ADC selectively binds human FZD7, potently kills ovarian cancer cells in vitro, and induces regression of ovarian tumor xenografts in murine models. To evaluate F7-ADC toxicity in vivo, we generated mice harboring a modified Fzd7 gene where the resulting Fzd7 protein is reactive with the human-targeting F7-ADC. F7-ADC treatment of these mice did not induce acute toxicities, indicating a potentially favorable safety profile in patients. Overall, our data suggest that the antibody-drug conjugate approach may be a powerful strategy to combat FZD7-expressing ovarian cancers in the clinic.©2021 The Authors; Published by the American Association for Cancer Research.
ATP‑binding cassette subfamily G member 2 (ABCG2), a member of the ABC transporter superfamily, has been implicated in the development of chemotherapeutic drug resistance in cancer cells. However, the regulators of ABCG2 expression and their roles in anticancer drug resistance have not been fully characterized, especially in the context of pancreatic cancer. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether ABCG2 contributed to drug resistance in pancreatic cancer and to elucidate its regulatory molecular pathways. Using immunohistochemical analysis of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma and adjacent healthy tissue samples, the present study identified a positive correlation between ABCG2 and Wnt5a, a member of the Wnt family of secreted proteins. It was also determined that treatment with recombinant human Wnt5a protein could upregulate the expression of ABCG2 in the Capan‑2 human pancreatic cancer cell line and enhance its resistance to gemcitabine. The upregulation of ABCG2 by Wnt5a was inhibited by small interfering RNA silencing of Frizzled class receptor 7 (FZD7) or by FZD7 inhibitors. Moreover, both FZD7 silencing or inhibition of its function attenuated gemcitabine resistance induced by Wnt5a in Capan‑2 cells. Therefore, the present findings suggested that Wnt5a and FZD7 acted as upstream regulators of ABCG2 expression and that FZD7 may be an essential factor for Wnt5a‑induced gemcitabine resistance in pancreatic cancer cells.
The estrogen-related receptor (ERR) family, comprising ESRRA (estrogen-related receptor alpha), ESRRB (estrogen-related receptor beta), and ESRRG (estrogen-related receptor gamma), plays a crucial role in regulating metabolic and developmental processes. However, the functional significance of ERRs during preimplantation embryo development remains largely unclear. In the present study, we aimed to systematically characterized ERRs expression dynamics in mouse preimplantation embryo development and elucidated the mechanistic involvement of ERRs in blastocyst formation. Our findings demonstrate that among the estrogen-related receptor family, ESRRG is uniquely and highly expressed at the 2-cell embryo stage and is essential for blastocyst formation. Knockdown of Esrrg significantly reduced global transcriptional activity in the 2-cell embryos, thereby impairing zygotic genome activation (ZGA) and disrupting the 2-cell to 4-cell embryo transition. Given the crucial role of ESRRG in ZGA, the mechanisms governing its own transcriptional regulation are of paramount interest. To this end, we searched for upstream regulators and identified trichorhinophalangeal syndrome I (TRPS1) as a key transcription factor that directly binds to the Esrrg promoter to modulate its expression. Furthermore, the TRPS1-ESRRG regulatory axis orchestrates mouse preimplantation development by controlling the expression of critical ZGA factors, such as Sp1 transcription factor and tankyrase 2. These results establish the TRPS1-ESRRG axis as a critical regulator of mouse preimplantation development through its essential role in modulating zygotic genome activation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
To screen for differentially expressed genes in retinoblastoma (RB) gene chips using GEO2R and validate them clinically.The expression profile chip data (GSE110811) was downloaded from the public gene chip database Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO). The GEO2R chip analysis platform was used to identify differentially expressed genes between RB and adjacent normal tissues. According to the International Intraocular Retinoblastoma Classification (IIRC) system, 35 children diagnosed with RB from our hospital and other hospitals were enrolled as the RB group, and 35 healthy children who underwent physical examinations in our hospital were enrolled as the control group. The relative expression levels of Sprouty RTK signaling antagonist 2 (SPRY2) and estrogen-related receptor beta (ESRRB) in the serum of patients were detected by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). The diagnostic value of SPRY2 and ESRRB in RB was evaluated by receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves. Analysis of the relationship between SPRY2/ESRRB expression and clinicopathological features, as well as its correlation with the tumor marker CA199.In the GSE110811 chip, the expression levels of two genes, 16780069 (SPRY2) and 16786783 (ESRRB), showed the most significant differences between RB and normal tissues. The relative expression levels of SPRY2 and ESRRB in the serum of children in RB group (22 males, age 1.64±1.08y) were significantly lower (P<0.05) than those in control group (25 males, age 1.54±0.95y). The area under the ROC curve for SPRY2 was 0.735 (95%CI: 0.616-0.854), while that for ESRRB was 0.880 (95%CI: 0.800-0.960). There were statistically significant differences in the expression of SPRY2 and ESRRB with respect to choroidal invasion, optic nerve invasion, differentiation degree, and clinical staging (P<0.05). In RB group, the expression levels of SPRY2 and ESRRB decreased gradually with increasing CA199 levels, showing a negative correlation (r SPRY2=-0.593, r ESRRB=-0.423; both P<0.05).The expression of SPRY2 and ESRRB is closely related to the occurrence and development of RB and negatively correlated with the tumor marker CA199. They have the potential to serve as diagnostic biomarkers for RB.International Journal of Ophthalmology Press.
Understanding patient-specific factors that influence postoperative outcomes and failure rates following rotator cuff repair is crucial for surgeons to tailor individualized treatments. The purpose of this umbrella review was to identify preoperatively measurable factors that influence the risk of retear and functional outcomes following rotator cuff repair (RCR). Additionally, the study aimed to evaluate the quality of evidence from systematic reviews and meta-analyses to provide a comprehensive understanding of these predictive factors.A systematic search of the MEDLINE database via PubMed was conducted to identify systematic reviews and meta-analyses reporting preoperatively measurable factors affecting functional outcomes and failure rates following arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. The methodological quality of included reviews was assessed using the AMSTAR checklist. Data synthesis summarized key risk factors, quantified study overlap via Corrected Covered Area (CCA), and examined heterogeneity and publication bias when reported in the reviews.Twenty-three systematic reviews, including 11 meta-analyses, met the inclusion criteria, yielding a CCA of 0.403, which reflects moderate overlap. The average AMSTAR score was 7.57, indicating moderate methodological quality. However, only a few reviews included analyses of heterogeneity or publication bias, and the evidence presented was often contradictory. Meta-analyses revealed statistically significant associations between higher retear rates and factors such as advanced age, reduced bone mineral density, elevated body mass index, diabetes, shorter acromiohumeral interval, increased critical shoulder angle, involvement of multiple tendons, greater tendon retraction, longer symptom duration, larger tear size, poor tissue quality, and greater distance from the musculotendinous junction to the glenoid. Genetic analyses provided moderate to strong evidence linking healing failure to mutations in the matrix metallopeptidase 3 (MMP3) and Tenascin C (TNC) genes, as well as a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the Estrogen Related Receptor β (ESRRβ) gene. Improved tendon healing was associated with the upregulation of the growth factor Bone Morphogenetic Protein 5 (BMP5) and increased expression of collagen type III (COL3). High preoperative expectations consistently correlated with better functional outcomes, whereas other psychological factors, such as concerns and fear avoidance, were associated with poorer outcomes.Evidence synthesized in this review underscores the importance of patient age, expectations, and the extent of the rotator cuff tear in influencing outcomes following rotator cuff repair. These factors should be carefully considered in treatment planning for patients undergoing rotator cuff repair.© 2025. The Author(s).
Estrogen-related receptor beta (ESRRB) is thought to be an orphan receptor that functions as a transcription factor, pioneer factor, and mitotic bookmarker to regulate cell stemness, pluripotency, and differentiation. This study (1) investigates whether calcium and cadmium activation of ESRRB regulates signaling pathways of stemness and pluripotency, (2) explores the transcriptomic and biological alterations of metal activation of ESRRB, and (3) reveals the underlying mechanisms by which metals activate ESRRB. In HEK293T cells, treatment with calcium and cadmium increased the expression of ESRRB-regulated genes that was blocked by an ESRRB antagonist. In the breast cancer cell line MDA-MB-453, treatment with calcium, cadmium, or a synthetic agonist also increased the expression of ESRRB-regulated genes that was blocked by the antagonist, enhanced ESRRB nuclear localization, increased the recruitment of RNA polymerase 2 to estrogen-related receptor response elements (ERRE), enhanced cell stemness and proliferation pathways, and induced the expression of estrogen receptor alpha (ESR1 or Erα). Mutational analysis and molecular docking identified potential metal interaction sites within ESRRB's ligand-binding domain. Together, these results suggest calcium acts as a natural ligand for ESRRB and cadmium, which mimics calcium, activate ESRRB to mediate cell stemness and pluripotency.
Estrogen-related receptor β (ERRβ) alternative splicing isoforms, including ERRβsf, ERRβ2, and ERRβΔ10, have been implicated in the pathogenesis of malignant tumors. Nevertheless, their specific impact on esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) remains unclear. The study aimed to investigate the expression and prognostic value of ERRβ alternative splicing isoforms in ESCC.This study prospectively collected ESCC tissues and paired normal tissues of 54 patients with ESCC who underwent esophagectomy without neoadjuvant therapy. The protein expression levels of ERRβ alternative splicing isoforms in ESCC and normal tissues were detected by Western blot. The Kaplan-Meier method with a log-rank test was used to estimate overall survival (OS). The Cox proportional hazards regression analysis was used to evaluate the independent prognostic factors.In ESCC tissues, the ERRβsf/ERRβ ratio was significantly higher (P = 0.017) compared to paired normal tissues. Based on a cut-off value of 0.24, there were 18 and 36 cases in the high ERRβsf/ERRβ expression group and low ERRβsf/ERRβ expression group, respectively. Patients with high ERRβsf/ERRβ ratios had significantly better OS than those patients with low ERRβsf/ERRβ ratios (77.1% vs 50.8%, P = 0.024). The multivariate analysis revealed that ERRβsf/ERRβ (hazard ratio [HR] = 0.219, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.063-0.767, P = 0.018) and N stage (HR = 7.892, 95% CI 1.328-46.911, P = 0.023) were independent prognostic factors for ESCC patients.This study is the first to demonstrate the relationship between ERRβ alternative splicing isoforms in ESCC. A high ERRβsf/ERRβ ratio was associated with a better prognosis, indicating that ERRβ alternative splicing isoforms may serve as potential prognostic biomarkers for ESCC.© 2025. The Author(s).
The objective of the study was to characterize the mRNA expression patterns of specific steroid hormone receptors namely, estrogen receptors (ESRRA-estrogen related receptor alpha and ESRRB-estrogen related receptor beta) and progesterone receptors (PGR) in superovulation-induced bovine follicles during the periovulation and subsequent corpus luteum (CL) formation. The bovine ovaries (n = 5 cow / group), containing preovulatory follicles or early CL, were collected relative to injection of the gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) at (I) 0 h, (II) 4 h, (III) 10 h, (IV) 20 h, (V) 25 h (preovulatory follicles) and (VI) 60 h (CL, 2-3 days after induced ovulation). In this experiment, we analyzed the steroid receptor mRNA expression and their localization in the follicle and CL tissue. The high mRNA expression of ESRRA, ESRRB, and PGR analyzed in the follicles before ovulation is significantly reduced in the group of follicles during ovulation (25 h after GnRH), rising again significantly after ovulation in newly formed CL, only for ESRRA and PGR (P < 0.05). Immunohistochemically, the nuclei of antral follicles' granulosa cells showed a positive staining for ESRRA, followed by higher activity in the large luteal cells just after ovulation (early CL). In contrast, the lower PGR immunopresence in preovulatory follicles increased in both small and large luteal cell nuclei after follicle ovulation. Our results of steroid receptor mRNA expression in this experimentally induced gonadotropin surge provide insight into the molecular mechanisms of the effects of steroid hormones on follicular-luteal tissue in the period close to the ovulation and subsequent CL formation in the cow.Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
In a previous in vivo study, adult male fathead minnows (Pimephales promelas) were exposed via water for 4 days to 1H,1H,8H,8H-perfluorooctane-1,8-diol (FC8-diol). The present study expands on the evaluation of molecular responses to this perfluoro-alcohol by analyzing 26 male fathead minnow liver RNA samples from that study (five from each test concentration: 0, 0.018, 0.051, 0.171, and 0.463 mg FC8-diol/L) using fathead minnow EcoToxChips Ver. 1.0. EcoToxChips are a quantitative polymerase chain reaction array that allows for simultaneous measurement of >375 species-specific genes of toxicological interest. Data were analyzed with the online tool EcoToxXplorer. Among the genes analyzed, 62 and 96 were significantly up- and downregulated, respectively, by one or more FC8-diol treatments. Gene expression results from the previous study were validated, showing an upregulation of vitellogenin mRNA (vtg) and downregulation of insulin-like growth factor 1 mRNA (igf1). Additional genes related to estrogen receptor activation including esr2a (estrogen receptor 2a) and esrrb (estrogen related receptor beta) were also affected, providing further confirmation of the estrogenic nature of FC8-diol. Furthermore, genes involved in biological pathways related to lipid and carbohydrate metabolism, innate immune response, endocrine reproduction, and endocrine thyroid were significantly affected. These results both add confidence in the use of the EcoToxChip tool for inferring chemical mode(s) of action and provide further insights into the possible biological effects of FC8-diol.© 2024 SETAC. This article has been contributed to by U.S. Government employees and their work is in the public domain in the USA.
Silent mating type information regulation 2 homolog 1 (SIRT1) is a class III histone deacetylase (HDAC) that is NAD + dependent and essential for metabolism, senescence, and cell survival. SIRT1 is overexpressed in several cancers, including breast cancer. SIRT1 is a well-known target gene of the estrogen receptor alpha (ER alpha) and is closely related to ER alpha deacetylation. Transcription factor Estrogen-related receptors (ERRs) share sequence homology with ERs in the DNA-binding domain, therefore, the possibility of sharing target genes between them is high. Our current research aims to gain insight into the function of ERRβ in regulating the activity of SIRT1 during the progression of breast cancer. ER-positive (ER + ve) breast cancer cells and tissues had considerably enhanced SIRT1 expression. Six potential ERRE sites were identified by analysis of the 5' upstream region of SIRT1, and both in vitro and in vivo experiments supported their presence. We found SIRT1 to be up-regulated in ERRβ overexpressed ER + ve breast cancer cells. Furthermore, our findings suggested that ectopic production of ERR and PCAF would increase SIRT1 activity. Our findings also indicated that ectopic production of ERRβ and PCAF increased SIRT1 activity. With sufficient evidence demonstrating the substantial involvement of SIRT1 in cell proliferation, migration, and colony formation capability, we were also able to illustrate the tumorigenic role of SIRT1. Overall, our findings highlight SIRT1's tumorigenic influence on breast cancer and suggest that SIRT1 inhibitors might serve as potential therapeutic drugs for the treatment of breast cancer.© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to The Japanese Breast Cancer Society.
The dosage-dependent recruitment of RNA polymerase II (Pol II) at the promoters of genes related to neurodevelopment and stem cell maintenance is required for transcription by the fine-tuned expression of SET-domain-containing protein 5 (SETD5). Pol II O-GlcNAcylation by O-GlcNAc transferase (OGT) is critical for preinitiation complex formation and transcription cycling. SETD5 dysregulation has been linked to stem cell-like properties in some cancer types; however, the role of SETD5 in cancer cell stemness has not yet been determined. We here show that aberrant SETD5 overexpression induces stemness in colorectal cancer (CRC) cells. SETD5 overexpression causes the upregulation of PI3K-AKT pathway-related genes and cancer stem cell (CSC) markers such as CD133, Kruppel-like factor 4 (KLF4), and estrogen-related receptor beta (ESRRB), leading to the gain of stem cell-like phenotypes. Our findings also revealed a functional relationship between SETD5, OGT, and Pol II. OGT-catalyzed Pol II glycosylation depends on SETD5, and the SETD5-Pol II interaction weakens in OGT-depleted cells, suggesting a SETD5-OGT-Pol II interdependence. SETD5 deficiency reduces Pol II occupancy at PI3K-AKT pathway-related genes and CD133 promoters, suggesting a role for SETD5-mediated Pol II recruitment in gene regulation. Moreover, the SETD5 depletion nullified the SETD5-induced stemness of CRC cells and Pol II O-GlcNAcylation. These findings support the hypothesis that SETD5 mediates OGT-catalyzed O-GlcNAcylation of RNA Pol II, which is involved in cancer cell stemness gain via CSC marker gene upregulation.© 2023. The Author(s).
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 20301442
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 20301607
Total flavonoids of Rhizoma drynariae (TFRD) is broadly used in the treatment of orthopedic diseases. Nevertheless, the effects and underlying mechanism of TFRD on tendon-bone healing after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR) remain unclear.The ACLR mouse model was established. Hematoxylin and Eosin (HE) staining was used for histological analysis of tendon-bone healing. Western blot was utilized to detect the levels of osteogenic related factors (ALP, OCN, RUNX2). The viability and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity of bone mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) were determined by Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) and ALP assays. The interaction of estrogen related receptor alpha (ESRRA), estrogen related receptor beta (ESRRB), and golgi-localized γ-ear containing ADP ribosylation factor-binding protein 1 (Gga1) was detected by luciferase reporter assays. The levels of important proteins on the TGF-β/MAPK pathway were measured by western blot.TFRD improved tendon-bone healing, restored biomechanics of ACLR mice and activated the TGF-β/MAPK pathway. TFRD treatment also enhanced the viability and osteogenic differentiation of BMSCs in vitro. Then, we demonstrated that TFRD targeted ESRRA and ESRRB to transcriptionally activate Gga1 expression. Knockdown of ESRRA, ESRRB, or Gga1 suppressed the viability and osteogenic differentiation of TFRD-induced BMSCs, which was revealed to be restored by Gga1 overexpression. The overexpression of ESRRA, ESRRB, or Gga1 was demonstrated to promote the BMSC viability and osteogenic differentiation. TGF-β1 treatment can reverse the impact of Gga1 inhibition on osteogenic differentiation in TFRD-induced BMSCs.TFRD improves tendon-bone healing in ACLR mouse models and facilitates the osteogenic differentiation of BMSCs through the ERR1/2-Gga1-TGF-β/MAPK pathway, which might deepen our understanding of the underlying mechanism of TFRD in tendon-bone healing.© 2023 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42416402 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42304159 is a review article
Objectives: Genetic risk models have substantially advanced our understanding of germline pathogenic variants (GPVs) in some malignancies, whereas their clinical significance in lung cancer remains unclear. The present study aimed to better understand potential contribution of GPVs to lung cancer etiology. Methods: A targeted sequencing panel of 143 cancer-related genes was applied to analyze 26 distinct lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) tumors from 11 patients histopathologically diagnosed with multiple primary lung cancers (MPLC). Tumor classification was performed through integrated evaluation of mutation profiles, and variants shared among tumor lesions were further validated as likely germline or somatic mutations using Sanger sequencing. Results: Mutation profiles were compared to reveal clonal relationships among lesions in each patient. Nine of the 11 cases (81.8%) were classified as MPLC, 1/11 (9.1%) as intrapulmonary metastasis (IM), and 1/11 (9.1%) exhibited features of both MPLC and IM. Among the nine MPLC cases, eight (88.9%) harbored matching variants across independent tumor lesions that were also detected in tumor-adjacent regions, suggesting classification as likely germline variants. Importantly, among the eight cases with shared variants, one possessed a novel truncating BRCA2 DNA repair associated (BRCA2) variant (p.N900IfsTer4), while the others harbored variants of uncertain significance (VUS) in the tumor protein p53 (TP53), caspase recruitment domain family member 11 (CARD11), platelet derived growth factor receptor beta (PDGFRB), lysine methyltransferase 2D (KMT2D), phosphoinositide-3-kinase regulatory subunit 1 (PIK3R1), neuregulin 1 (NRG1), androgen receptor (AR), and KIT proto-oncogene, receptor tyrosine kinase (KIT) genes. To determine whether a similar BRCA2 variant was present in other lung cancer patients, 123 LUAD cases were analyzed, and one (0.81%) possessing a truncating BRCA2 variant (p.Q1429FfsTer20) without any typical driver mutations was identified. Conclusions: BRCA2 GPVs may represent putative pathogenic mutations, and thus be potential molecular targets for future treatment of LUAD.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Tech Science Press.
Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) are the most common mesenchymal neoplasms of the digestive tract. They frequently harbor mutations in KIT proto-oncogene, receptor tyrosine kinase (KIT) (70-80%) and platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha (PDGFRA) (10-15%) genes, responding effectively to tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs). Accurate genotyping is crucial for diagnosis and therapeutic management. This study reports a decade-long experience, detailing the epidemiological, pathological, and molecular characteristics of GISTs in a single-center cohort.Twenty-nine patients diagnosed with GIST (stomach, small bowel, colon, and peritoneum) at IRCCS CROB, Italy, between 2012 and 2021 were enrolled. Molecular analysis was performed using Sanger sequencing and Next-Generation Sequencing (NGS).Twenty-three patients (85%) harbored KIT mutations, while four (15%) had PDGFRA mutations. Among KIT-mutated cases, five (22%) presented the p.Ala502_Tyr503dup duplication in exon 9. Elevated Ki-67 and a mitotic index of 3-7/50 high-power field (HPF) were associated with high recurrence risk. Eighteen patients (78%) exhibited mutations in exon 11: 8 (44%) were point mutations, 5 (28%) deletions, and 5 (28%) complex deletions. Point mutations at codons 557, 560, and 603 correlated with high recurrence risk, whereas mutations at codons 559 and 599 linked to low-risk disease. Most deletions and complex deletions showed high recurrence risk and Ki-67 >10%. PDGFRA mutations were located in exon 18 (2 complex deletions, 2 point mutations including p.D842V); three of these cases showed low-to-moderate recurrence risk (Ki-67 ≤8%).This study characterizes the clinicopathological and molecular profiles of 29 Caucasian GIST patients, reinforcing the critical role of molecular stratification in clinical practice.Copyright © 2026 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
Idiopathic non-obstructive azoospermia (iNOA) is associated with reduced expression of multiple eukaryotic translation initiation factors ( EIFs) in spermatogonia, including eukaryotic translation initiation factor 5 ( EIF5). The present study revealed that eIF5 mRNA and protein levels were markedly higher in male mouse ( Mus musculus) germ cells than in Leydig or Sertoli cells. Thus, to define the role of eIF5 in spermatogenesis, Eif5 conditional knockout (cKO) mice were generated by crossing Eif5 fl/fl mice with Stimulated by retinoic acid 8 ( Stra8)-Cre mice. Loss of Eif5 in male germ cells reduced both SRY-box transcription factor 3 (SOX3) + progenitor spermatogonia and Kit proto-oncogene receptor tyrosine kinase (KIT) + differentiating spermatogonia, leading to severe meiotic failure and complete male infertility. Mechanistically, Eif5 deficiency impaired translation of genes involved in ubiquitination, autophagy, and DNA repair, which, in turn, triggered excessive endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and compromised DNA repair in SOX3 + progenitor spermatogonia. These defects promoted DNA damage and subsequent apoptosis, resulting in progressive germ cell depletion and sterility. Collectively, these findings highlight the essential role of eIF5 in spermatogenesis and offer a potential therapeutic strategy for iNOA associated with reduced expression of EIF5 and other translation initiation factors.
Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) are the most common soft tissue sarcomas of the gastrointestinal tract, with most cases harboring oncogenic driver mutations in the KIT proto-oncogene receptor tyrosine kinase (KIT) or platelet-derived growth factor α (PDGFRA). The advent of targeted therapy, notably the first tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) imatinib, has revolutionized the treatment landscape for GISTs. Recent advancements and emerging evidence in the diagnosis, treatment, and assessment of treatment response to TKIs in GISTs have led to updates to major clinical practice guidelines, including the latest guidelines from the Chinese Society of Clinical Oncology (CSCO, 2024), the US National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN, version 1.2025), and the European Society for Medical Oncology (ESMO, 2022). Although these guidelines align on fundamental principles, some key differences in recommendations exist. This commentary highlights discrepancies in the recommendations for managing GISTs as outlined in these major guidelines. Based on emerging new evidence from recent studies, the authors propose recommendations to be considered for inclusion in future guideline updates to optimize management strategies and ultimately improve the outcomes of patients with GISTs.© 2025 American Cancer Society.
KIT proto-oncogene, receptor tyrosine kinase (KIT, CD117) and platelet-derived growth factor-alpha (PDGFRA) are key drivers of gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST), but resistance to targeted therapy often arises from tumor protein p53 (p53) alterations and loss of cell cycle control. However, the role of p53 status in GIST therapeutic potential has rarely been studied, so this study aimed to employ both wild-type and mutant p53 GIST models to investigate how p53 dysfunction influences the efficacy of p53 pathway-targeted therapies.The efficacy of the mouse double minute 2 homolog (MDM2) inhibitor (HDM201) and the Wee1 G2 checkpoint kinase (Wee1) inhibitor (adavosertib) was confirmed in both p53 wild-type (p53 WT) and p53 mutant (p53 MT) GIST cells. The anti-proliferative effects were assessed using the Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) assay. Flow cytometry (FACS) and immunoblotting were employed to evaluate apoptosis and the expression of proteins related to drug efficacy. These findings were further validated in a xenograft model.HDM201 selectively inhibited growth and triggered apoptosis in p53 WT GIST cells, while adavosertib was effective mainly in p53 MT cells. Western blot analysis revealed that HDM201 increased p53 and p21 levels in p53 WT cells, and adavosertib affected Wee1 and phospho-cdc2 expression in both p53 WT and p53 MT cells. In a xenograft mouse model, HDM201 significantly reduced the tumor volume and weight in p53 WT GIST cells, whereas p53 MT tumors showed only a moderate size reduction with adavosertib, without significant changes.Our results highlight the importance of p53 status in guiding GIST treatment. p53 WT tumors respond to MDM2 inhibitors, while p53 MT tumors show greater sensitivity to Wee1 inhibitors, supporting p53 pathway targeting as a promising strategy for GIST patients.© 2025 The Authors.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41150770 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 40984902 is a review article
Systemic mastocytosis (SM) is a rare clonal mast cell disease characterized by heterogeneous clinical presentations and molecular features that vary across different regions; however, data from Central-Eastern Europe remain limited. This study aimed to describe the demographic, clinical, laboratory, and molecular characteristics of Romanian adults diagnosed with SM and followed at the national reference center for mast cell disorders in Bucharest, while also exploring real-world management patterns and outcomes. We conducted a retrospective observational study including 162 adult patients evaluated between January 2006 and March 2025 who met the 2022 World Health Organization criteria for SM. Data extracted from electronic medical records included WHO subtype, KIT mutation status, serum tryptase levels, organ involvement, treatment history, and survival outcomes. A descriptive statistical approach was used, with continuous variables expressed as medians and interquartile ranges, and categorical variables as counts and percentages. A subset of eight patients underwent bone marrow flow cytometry immunophenotyping to assess the diagnostic contribution of CD2 and CD25. Among the entire cohort, indolent SM was the most frequent form (53.1%), followed by cutaneous mastocytosis (17.3%), smoldering SM (5.6%), aggressive SM (3.7%), and SM with associated hematologic neoplasm (8%). The KIT D816V mutation was detected in 43% of tested individuals, and the median baseline serum tryptase was 20.55 μg/L. Common organ-related findings included osteoporosis (17.9%), osteopenia (21.7%), cutaneous lesions (29%), and hepatomegaly (4%). First-line symptomatic therapy (H1/H2 antihistamines ± montelukast) was administered to 77% of patients, while four patients with advanced disease received midostaurin treatment. Immunophenotyping confirmed aberrant expression of CD2 and CD25 in all eight analyzed cases. This first national series from Romania underscores the predominance of indolent SM and the clinical burden of organ involvement, reinforcing the need for early diagnosis and personalized, risk-adapted therapeutic approaches.© 2025 The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 40806731 is a review article
Given that esophageal cancer is highly malignant, the discovery of novel prognostic markers is eagerly awaited. We performed serological identification of antigens by recombinant cDNA expression cloning (SEREX) and identified SKI proto-oncogene protein and transmembrane p24 trafficking protein 5 (TMED5) as antigens recognized by serum IgG antibodies in patients with esophageal carcinoma. SKI and TMED5 proteins were expressed in Escherichia coli, purified by affinity chromatography, and used as antigens. The serum anti-SKI antibody (s-SKI-Ab) and anti-TMED5 antibody (s-TMED5-Ab) levels were significantly higher in 192 patients with esophageal carcinoma than in 96 healthy donors. The presence of s-SKI-Abs and s-TMED5-Abs in the patients' sera was confirmed by western blotting. Immunohistochemical staining showed that the TMED5 protein was highly expressed in the cytoplasm and nuclear compartments of the esophageal squamous cell carcinoma tissues, whereas the SKI protein was localized predominantly in the nuclei. Regarding the overall survival in 91 patients who underwent radical surgery, the s-SKI-Ab-positive and s-TMED5-Ab-negative statuses were significantly associated with a favorable prognosis. Additionally, the combination of s-SKI-Ab-positive and s-TMED5-Ab-negative cases showed an even clearer difference in overall survival as compared with that of s-SKI-Ab-negative and s-TMED5-Ab-positive cases. The s-SKI-Ab and s-TMED5-Ab biomarkers are useful for diagnosing esophageal carcinoma and distinguishing between favorable and poor prognoses.© 2024 The Authors. Cancer Science published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.
Particular breast cancer subtypes pose a clinical challenge due to limited targeted therapeutic options and/or poor responses to the existing targeted therapies. While cell lines provide useful pre-clinical models, patient-derived xenografts (PDX) and organoids (PDO) provide significant advantages, including maintenance of genetic and phenotypic heterogeneity, 3D architecture and for PDX, tumor-stroma interactions. In this study, we applied an integrated multi-omic approach across panels of breast cancer PDXs and PDOs in order to identify candidate therapeutic targets, with a major focus on specific FGFRs.MS-based phosphoproteomics, RNAseq, WES and Western blotting were used to characterize aberrantly activated protein kinases and effects of specific FGFR inhibitors. PDX and PDO were treated with the selective tyrosine kinase inhibitors AZD4547 (FGFR1-3) and BLU9931 (FGFR4). FGFR4 expression in cancer tissue samples and PDOs was assessed by immunohistochemistry. METABRIC and TCGA datasets were interrogated to identify specific FGFR alterations and their association with breast cancer subtype and patient survival.Phosphoproteomic profiling across 18 triple-negative breast cancers (TNBC) and 1 luminal B PDX revealed considerable heterogeneity in kinase activation, but 1/3 of PDX exhibited enhanced phosphorylation of FGFR1, FGFR2 or FGFR4. One TNBC PDX with high FGFR2 activation was exquisitely sensitive to AZD4547. Integrated 'omic analysis revealed a novel FGFR2-SKI fusion that comprised the majority of FGFR2 joined to the C-terminal region of SKI containing the coiled-coil domains. High FGFR4 phosphorylation characterized a luminal B PDX model and treatment with BLU9931 significantly decreased tumor growth. Phosphoproteomic and transcriptomic analyses confirmed on-target action of the two anti-FGFR drugs and also revealed novel effects on the spliceosome, metabolism and extracellular matrix (AZD4547) and RIG-I-like and NOD-like receptor signaling (BLU9931). Interrogation of public datasets revealed FGFR2 amplification, fusion or mutation in TNBC and other breast cancer subtypes, while FGFR4 overexpression and amplification occurred in all breast cancer subtypes and were associated with poor prognosis. Characterization of a PDO panel identified a luminal A PDO with high FGFR4 expression that was sensitive to BLU9931 treatment, further highlighting FGFR4 as a potential therapeutic target.This work highlights how patient-derived models of human breast cancer provide powerful platforms for therapeutic target identification and analysis of drug action, and also the potential of specific FGFRs, including FGFR4, as targets for precision treatment.© 2021. The Author(s).
Acute viral infection causes illness and death. In addition, an infection often results in increased susceptibility to a secondary infection, but the mechanisms behind this susceptibility are poorly understood. Since its initial identification as a marker for resident memory CD8+ T cells in barrier tissues, the function and regulation of CD103 integrin (encoded by ITGAE gene) have been extensively investigated. Nonetheless, the function and regulation of the resident CD103+CD8+ T cell response to acute viral infection remain unclear. Although TGFβ signaling is essential for CD103 expression, the precise molecular mechanism behind this regulation is elusive. Here, we reveal a TGFβ-SKI-Smad4 pathway that critically and specifically directs resident CD103+CD8+ T cell generation for protective immunity against primary and secondary viral infection. We found that resident CD103+CD8+ T cells are abundant in both lymphoid and nonlymphoid tissues from uninfected mice. CD103 acts as a costimulation signal to produce an optimal antigenic CD8+ T cell response to acute viral infection. There is a reduction in resident CD103+CD8+ T cells following primary infection that results in increased susceptibility of the host to secondary infection. Intriguingly, CD103 expression inversely and specifically correlates with SKI proto-oncogene (SKI) expression but not R-Smad2/3 activation. Ectopic expression of SKI restricts CD103 expression in CD8+ T cells in vitro and in vivo to hamper viral clearance. Mechanistically, SKI is recruited to the Itgae loci to directly suppress CD103 transcription by regulating histone acetylation in a Smad4-dependent manner. Our study therefore reveals that resident CD103+CD8+ T cells dictate protective immunity during primary and secondary infection. Interfering with SKI function may amplify the resident CD103+CD8+ T cell response to promote protective immunity.© 2020. CSI and USTC.
The prevalence of pediatric neurological disorders has increased in recent years and has emerged as a major social concern. While genetic factors play a role, environmental factors may also contribute to these disorders, particularly exposure to harmful chemicals in the fetal environment during pregnancy. However, the concentrations of these chemicals in the fetal environment are extremely low compared with those in experimental conditions, and their influence on the development of neurological disorders after birth remains unclear. Epigenetic regulation plays a crucial role in gene expression and/or chromatin formation, ensuring normal cellular development and differentiation. The relationship between impaired epigenetic regulation and neurological disorders has been previously reported. Therefore, this study aimed to identify chemicals that disrupt epigenetic systems at detectable concentrations in pregnant mothers' serum using a human neural differentiation model. Among the 11 chemicals, including pesticides and heavy metals, exposure to octachlorodipropyl ether (S-421) altered heterochromatin formation in neural stem cells at concentrations found in maternal and umbilical cord blood serum. Additionally, exposure to several chemicals, including S-421, affected neural differentiation, leading to excessive neural fiber growth. Furthermore, S-421 exposure induced DNA hypermethylation of the neural-related genes Cadherin 2 (CDH2) and Sry-related HMG-Box gene 10 (SOX10) in neural stem cells. These findings suggest that S-421, which is present in the fetal environment, functions as an epimutagen that disrupts the epigenetic system within biologically relevant exposure levels. The established epimutagenic screening is expected to provide new insights into the relationship between prenatal chemical exposure and postnatal childhood neurological disorders.
Lung squamous cell carcinoma (LUSC) represents a distinct subtype of lung cancer, diverging significantly from lung adenocarcinoma. It demonstrates the ability to evade the immune system before the tumor has even begun to infiltrate. However, our understanding of these immune evasion mechanisms in LUSC is still in its infancy, calling for more intensive research.The expression levels of FAT atypical cadherin 2 (FAT2) and mothers against decapentaplegic homolog 3 (SMAD3) in LUSC were assessed by bioinformatics analysis, with the correlation between FAT2 and CD8+ T cell infiltration examined. The FAT2 expression and immune cell infiltration in clinical samples were analyzed via immunohistochemistry. FAT2, SMAD3, and programmed death ligand-1 (PD-L1) expressions were determined using quantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction. The interplay between FAT2 and SMAD3 was elucidated through chromatin immunoprecipitation and dual-luciferase reporter gene assays. The mechanism by which FAT2 activates the Wnt/β-catenin pathway to induce PD-L1 expression was further validated by TOPFlash/FOPFlash dual-luciferase reporter assays and chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by quantitative PCR. After culturing tumor cells alongside CD8+ T cells, the effect of SMAD3-activated FAT2 on PD-L1-mediated immune escape was tested through Cell Counting Kit-8 and lactate dehydrogenase detection and evaluated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The rescue experiments were designed by introducing Wnt pathway inhibitors to determine whether FAT2 affected PD-L1 expression through the Wnt pathway. Based on a mouse transplant tumor model, we verified the effect of knockdown of FAT2 and combination therapy with anti-PD-L1 on tumor growth.An upregulation of FAT2 in LUSC was observed, which showed a negative correlation with CD8+ T cell infiltration. High FAT2 expression was linked to increased PD-L1 levels, which suppressed the anti-tumor immune function of CD8+ T cells. SMAD3 was found to bind to the FAT2 promoter, stimulating its transcription. Rescue experiments illustrated that FAT2 overexpression could neutralize the positive impact of SMAD3 knockdown on the immune response of CD8+ T cells. In further research, FAT2 was found to mainly promote PD-L1 expression by activating the Wnt pathway. In addition, animal experiments demonstrated that the combination therapy of knocking down FAT2 and anti-PD-L1 significantly repressed LUSC growth.In summary, this study elucidated the important role of SMAD3 activation of FAT2 expression in LUSC immune escape and proposed a combined immune strategy targeting the FAT2/PD-L1 axis. The study can provide a new direction for the clinical intervention of LUSC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Cadherin-2 (CDH2) has been implicated in angiogenesis-related tumor biology, but its microenvironmental significance remains unclear. To clarify the role of CDH2 in a biologically informative setting, we used a two-round site-selection strategy and identified pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) as the final study context. Integrative single-cell, spatial, and regulatory analyses were then performed to define the cellular localization and biological meaning of CDH2 in the PDAC microenvironment. CDH2 was reproducibly localized to a fibroblast-associated stromal compartment rather than to a broadly endothelial compartment. Within fibroblasts, CDH2-positive cells were enriched for extracellular matrix remodeling, mesenchymal activation, wound-healing, angiogenesis-related, and TGF-beta-associated programs, supporting a coherent stromal remodeling state. Additional cancer-associated fibroblast (CAF) subtype signature analysis indicated that this state preferentially overlapped with a myofibroblastic CAF-like (myCAF-like)/extracellular matrix-remodeling CAF-like program rather than a dominant inflammatory or antigen-presenting CAF-like program. Communication analysis further showed that CDH2-positive fibroblasts occupied a primarily inter-compartmental, sender-dominant, extracellular matrix-centered signaling niche characterized by prominent collagen-, fibronectin-, and laminin-related interactions with stromal, malignant, myeloid, and endothelial-associated compartments. Spatial transcriptomic mapping supported tissue-level concordance between the CDH2-associated fibroblast state and an extracellular matrix-centered stromal program. Regulatory and counterfactual attenuation analyses further implicated candidate upstream regulators, including RUNX2, SMAD3, and TCF21. Together, these findings indicate that, in PDAC, CDH2 marks a fibroblast-associated CAF-like stromal cell state linked to extracellular matrix remodeling rather than to a directly vascular-centered program.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Japan Human Cell Society.
Angiogenesis is a fundamental process in cancer progression, but computational prioritization of angiogenesis-associated genes often relies on predefined gene sets or canonical signaling pathways, limiting the identification of non-canonical and context-dependent regulatory programs. To address this limitation, we developed a literature-guided integrative transcriptomic framework to prioritize angiogenesis-associated candidates across heterogeneous cancer types. The framework integrates bibliometric trend profiling, pan-cancer gene expression analysis, survival association assessment, tumor microenvironment-related transcriptional characterization, and functional enrichment analysis. Rather than prespecifying angiogenic regulators, candidate genes were prioritized through convergence across these complementary evidence layers. Across diverse cancer cohorts, the framework consistently identified cadherin 2 (CDH2) as a representative non-canonical angiogenesis-associated signal. CDH2-associated transcriptional programs were enriched in extracellular matrix organization, cell-cell adhesion, and structural remodeling processes, and tumor microenvironment analyses indicated preferential alignment with stromal and vascular-associated features, particularly cancer-associated fibroblast-related signatures, rather than immune-dominant profiles. In independent external glioma cohorts, CDH2 showed a non-uniform and context-dependent relationship with vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA)-associated transcriptional patterns, while CDH2-high tumors reproducibly exhibited higher extracellular matrix remodeling, adhesion/focal adhesion, epithelial-mesenchymal transition, and angiogenesis-related signature scores. In an independent Chinese Glioma Genome Atlas cohort, higher CDH2 expression was also associated with worse overall survival in a lower-grade glioma-preferred subset. Collectively, this study demonstrates the utility of a knowledge-guided integrative transcriptomic framework for prioritizing angiogenesis-associated genes beyond canonical regulators and highlights structure-oriented, non-canonical angiogenesis-related programs as reproducible biological signals.© 2026. The Author(s).
FAT atypical cadherin 2 (FAT2), a member of the protocadherin superfamily involved in cell adhesion and polarity, remains incompletely characterized in breast cancer. This study aimed to elucidate the expression pattern, clinical significance, and functional mechanisms of FAT2 in breast cancer.FAT2 expression and clinicopathological associations were analyzed using The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) dataset. Recombinant FAT2 protein was generated, and its effects on migration, invasion, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) were assessed in HER2-positive breast cancer cell lines (BT-474 and MDA-MB-453). Downstream effectors were identified through gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) combined with correlation analysis and validated by gain- and loss-of-function experiments. Immunohistochemical analysis of 31 paired clinical specimens was performed to corroborate the in vitro findings.FAT2 mRNA was significantly downregulated in breast cancer tissues and was associated with advanced clinical stage, higher T stage, and negative hormone receptor status. High FAT2 expression correlated with longer overall survival, particularly in the ER-positive subgroup. Functionally, recombinant FAT2 protein inhibited cell migration and invasion at sub-cytotoxic concentrations and reversed the EMT phenotype. Integrative bioinformatics analysis identified the tight junction protein CLDN19 as a key downstream effector of FAT2, and rescue experiments demonstrated that CLDN19 knockdown markedly attenuated FAT2-mediated anti-migratory and anti-EMT effects. Immunohistochemical analysis validated the concurrent downregulation and strong positive correlation of FAT2 and CLDN19 in clinical specimens.FAT2 functions as a tumor suppressor in breast cancer by inhibiting migration, invasion, and EMT through transcriptional upregulation of CLDN19. The FAT2-CLDN19 axis represents a potential prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target for anti-metastatic intervention in breast cancer.Copyright © 2026 Xie, Lu, Li and Xu.
The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is essential for maintaining the homeostasis of the central nervous system. However, the processes of BBB formation in humans remain unclear. Here, using single-cell spatiotemporal transcriptomics, we investigate human BBB development from 6 to 21 gestational weeks (GWs) and observe widespread expression of BBB-specific transporters in all brain-endothelial subclusters during development. We determine the onset of the human BBB-like transcriptional signature at GW8 and prove that neural cells can induce the expression of BBB-specific transporters in brain endothelial cells (ECs) via CADHERIN-2 (CDH2). We also demonstrate that neural progenitor cells promote the proliferation of mural cells. Concomitant with the initiation of the BBB-like transcriptional signature, communication signals between ECs and mural cells begin to intensify. In addition, we reveal conserved BBB development between humans and mice and demonstrate that H2A.Z.1 regulates angiogenesis and BBB development. Collectively, these findings provide unique insights into understanding human BBB ontogeny and identifying therapeutic targets for BBB-related disorders.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Sleep is essential for maintaining cognitive, emotional, metabolic, and immune functions. Although research on sleep homeostasis is traditionally neuron-centric, increasing evidence indicates non-neuronal cells also play critical roles. In this study, we performed transcriptomic analyses of non-neuronal nuclei from the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex of mice subjected to acute sleep deprivation (SD). We found that acute SD induces robust, cell-type- and region-specific transcriptional reprogramming in astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. The most pronounced changes occurred in astrocytes, including downregulation of cholesterol biosynthesis genes in both brain regions, accompanied by region-specific and opposing regulation of genes involved in mitochondrial function and neurodegeneration-related pathways. Notably, genes associated with primary cilia were selectively induced in cortical astrocytes. In oligodendrocytes, acute SD led to downregulation of genes encoding cell-adhesion molecules. Together, these findings provide molecular evidence that non-neuronal cells actively contribute to sleep regulation and suggest novel potential mechanisms that broaden our understanding of sleep homeostasis.
Ovarian cancer (OC), the third most common gynecologic malignancy, is characterized by high mortality largely driven by chemotherapy resistance, leading to recurrence and metastasis. Using transcriptomic data from GSE73935, we constructed a weighted gene co-expression network and identified eight hub genes (IGF1R, CDH2, PDGFRA, CDKN1A, SHC1, SPP1, CAV1 and FGF18) associated with cisplatin resistance, among which CDH2 emerged as the most clinically relevant candidate. CDH2 demonstrated moderate diagnostic potential (AUC = 0.792) and was markedly upregulated in cisplatin-resistant A2780/CP70 cells. Independent validation using clinical single-cell RNA-seq data (GSE211956) confirmed its selective enrichment in resistant tumor cell subpopulations. Gene set enrichment analysis linked elevated CDH2 expression to p53 signaling, DNA replication, nucleotide excision repair, and Toll-like receptor pathways, with qPCR supporting upregulation of key downstream genes in resistant cells. Immune deconvolution further indicated that high CDH2 expression correlated with increased infiltration of NK cells, Tregs, macrophages, and neutrophils, and immunohistochemistry verified CDH2 overexpression in cisplatin-resistant tissues. In addition, virtual screening and drug sensitivity profiling identified several FDA-approved agents with potential relevance to CDH2-associated drug response. These findings indicate that CDH2 may serve as a candidate marker associated with cisplatin response in OC, and its association with immune cell infiltration provides further insight into mechanisms potentially underlying chemoresistance.
The migration and invasion of endothelial-derived mesenchymal cells (EMCs) play a crucial role in both atherosclerotic plaque formation and cancer metastasis. However, current strategies aimed at suppressing EMC formation often suffer from poor specificity and undesirable side effects, and few efforts have directly targeted the migratory and invasive behaviors of EMCs. In this study, we present a nanoparticle-based strategy to specifically inhibit EMC migration and invasion using cadherin-2-targeted melanin nanoparticles in combination with a mild photothermal treatment. Cell migration and invasion assays demonstrate that the synergistic effect of nanoparticle uptake and photothermal treatment effectively impedes the EMC motility. Atomic force and super resolution microscopy indicate that this inhibition is associated with disruption of the actin cytoskeleton and consequent morphological alterations. Furthermore, Western blot analyses elucidate the underlying molecular mechanism, showing that cadherin-2-dependent RhoA activation is downregulated by the combined nanoparticle and photothermal treatment, leading to cytoskeletal disorganization. Overall, these in vitro findings serve as a proof-of-concept study for a potential alternative or complementary strategy to attenuate atherosclerotic plaque development and cancer metastasis by targeting the migration and invasion of EMCs from a mechanistic perspective.
Heat stress (HS) has long posed a significant challenge to the poultry industry due to its adverse effects, such as depressed feed intake, decreased growth performance, and increased water consumption. Water efficiency (WE, conversion of water intake into body weight gain), although often neglected, is a key economic and production trait that is significantly affected by HS. Recently, we selected two broiler lines for high WE (HWE) and low WE (LWE) and showed a differential hypothalamic expression of genes involved in water homeostasis regulation. As the gut also plays a significant role in water absorption, the present study aimed to determine the effect of chronic HS on duodenal barrier integrity in LWE and HWE broilers. Male HWE and LWE chicks (240 chicks/line) were individually wing-banded for line identification, weighed, and placed in 12 controlled environmental chambers (2 pens/chambers). On day 29, birds were subjected to thermoneutral conditions (TN, 25 °C) or cyclic HS conditions (HS, 36 °C for 9 h/day from 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.) (120 birds/line/environment) for 3 weeks. On day 49, duodenal tissues were collected for histological, biochemical, and molecular analyses. Hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining revealed that HS significantly reduced villus height in the duodenum. Further analysis using qPCR showed that the mRNA expressions of intestinal barrier integrity-related genes, including claudins (CLDN1, 4, 5, 8, 16, and 22), PALS1-associated tight junction protein (PATJ), gap junction alpha 1 and 3 (GJA1/3), cadherin 2 (CDH2), and catenin alpha 2 (CTNNA2), were significantly upregulated by HS, and this effect was more pronounced in the HWE line than in its LWE counterpart. The findings of this study indicate that HS induces duodenal morphometric alterations. Based on the reduced serum fluorescein isothiocyanate-dextran (FITC-D) levels previously reported in the HWE line, the increased abundances of CLDN, PATJ, GJA1, CDH2, and CTNNA2 mRNAs in the HWE line suggest an enhancement of its duodenal barrier integrity for better nutrient and water absorption and, consequently, better growth efficiency.Copyright © 2025 Liu, Greene, Roach, Orlowski and Dridi.
CD30 positivity serves as a critical diagnostic hallmark for anaplastic lymphoma kinase positive anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALK+ ALCL); however, rare cases with partial or complete loss of CD30 expression present diagnostic challenges. We report a unique case with two morphologically and immunophenotypically distinct subpopulations within the same tumor: A typical CD30-positive component and a CD30-negative counterpart. Comparative genetic analysis revealed overlapping but divergent molecular features, including nucleophosmin 1-ALK (NPM1-ALK) fusion, notch receptor 1 mutations, and differential gene amplifications involving MYC proto-oncogene and BCL2-like 1. These findings offer insights into the regulatory mechanisms of CD30 and highlight that loss of CD30 expression alone should not preclude the diagnosis of ALK-positive ALCL, underscoring the importance of integrated histopathological and molecular evaluation in diagnostically challenging cases. Meanwhile, it provides a basis for optimizing the diagnostic process of clinically suspected cases.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by Scientific Scholar.
To evaluate the associations between transcription factor (TF)-defined molecular lineages and the clinical characteristics of pituitary neuroendocrine tumors (PitNETs).A retrospective cohort analysis was performed in 274 patients who underwent extra-pseudocapsular transsphenoidal resection. Tumors were classified by TF-defined lineage and invasion grade (0-3) and Knosp score. Group differences were tested, and predictors of gross total resection (GTR) were examined using hierarchical multivariable logistic regression.TF-defined lineage classification improved diagnostic precision. Among tumors with an immunonegative hormone profile, 74.7% received a definitive lineage assignment. The pituitary transcription factor 1-growth hormone/prolactin (PIT1-GH/PRL) subgroup had the highest incidence and grade of invasion; SRY-box transcription factor 2 (SOX2) positivity was most frequent in this subgroup (41.7%), which also exhibited the lowest GTR rate (58.3%). SOX2-positive tumors were associated with significantly higher preoperative adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) (median: 38.80 vs. 31.60 pg/mL, P = 0.032) and GH (median: 1.12 vs. 0.43 ng/mL, P = 0.046) levels. SOX2 positivity was 20.5% in multilineage tumors and 20.0% in the recurrent cohort (n = 20). Compared with Trouillas grade alone, the combination of invasion grade and intraoperative features (capsule status and vascularity) significantly improved the ability to predict GTR (AUC, 0.866 vs. 0.795; ΔAUC = 0.071; DeLong 95% CI, 0.022-0.120; P = 0.005).The 2022 WHO TF-defined lineage system improves diagnostic precision and facilitates the interpretation of PitNET differentiation and molecular pathology. Tumors in the PIT1-GH/PRL subgroup demonstrate more aggressive invasive features. SOX2 positivity was relatively frequent in multilineage tumors, whereas the observation in recurrent cases was limited by the small exploratory cohort and requires validation in larger longitudinal studies.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to the Huazhong University of Science and Technology.
Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC) is a neuroendocrine skin tumor that is frequently driven by integration of Merkel cell polyomavirus (MCPyV). In MCC, the MCPyV genome is truncated, but expression of the viral tumor antigens, truncated large tumor antigen (LTT) and small tumor antigen (sT), is maintained and drives uncontrolled proliferation. We introduced constitutive expression of the MCPyV T antigens (TAs) into primary mouse dermal fibroblasts (MDFs) to determine whether these cells are susceptible to MCPyV-driven transformation. TA expression alone in MDFs induced key MCC markers, cytokeratin-20 (CK20) and Sry-box transcription factor 2 (SOX2), and promoted anchorage-independent growth indicative of cellular transformation. Subcutaneous implantation of TA-transformed fibroblasts produced high-grade MCC-like tumors that grew persistently in immunodeficient NSG mice but not in immunocompetent C57BL/6 mice. Serial in vivo passaging of the tumor cell line enhanced tumor growth, reduced expression of p53-target genes and MHC-1, and was accompanied by a shift in T antigen isoform expression, with decreased LTT and increased sT expression. Our data demonstrate that MCPyV-driven tumors acquire immune-evasive adaptions during tumor progression in vivo and suggest that the anti-tumor immune response exerts selective pressure in MCC that favors expression of sT rather than LTT. The model established in this study provides a unique platform for studying evolution of MCPyV-driven tumors under immune pressure and identifying mechanisms of immune evasion in MCC that could be used to develop new therapeutic strategies.MCPyV tumor antigen expression transforms mouse dermal fibroblasts to generate MCC-like tumors. Serial in vivo passaging reveals tumor evolution under immune pressure, providing a model to study immune evasion mechanisms in MCC.
Diabetes mellitus impairs bone metabolism through chronic hyperglycemia, oxidative stress, and inflammation, leading to reduced osteoblast activity and downregulation of key pluripotency genes such as Octamer-binding transcription factor 4 (OCT4), Nanog homeobox (NANOG), SRY-box transcription factor 2 (SOX2), and Reduced expression protein 1 (REX1).The present study investigated whether the timing of aerobic exercise (morning vs. evening) influences the expression of pluripotency genes in the bone tissue of diabetic mice.Eighteen male NMRI mice were assigned to healthy control, diabetic control, or diabetic exercise groups. Diabetes was induced using a high-fat diet combined with low-dose streptozotocin. Aerobic training was performed for eight weeks at either ZT3 (morning) or ZT15 (evening), five sessions per week, at 50-60% Vmax. Blood glucose, insulin, HOMA-IR, and maximum running speed were assessed, and gene expression in bone tissue was measured using qRT-PCR. Data were analyzed using one-way ANOVA with Tukey post hoc testing (p < 0.05).Diabetic mice exhibited significant increases in glucose, insulin, and HOMA-IR, along with marked reductions in pluripotency gene expression, particularly at ZT3. Aerobic exercise significantly improved metabolic parameters and partially restored gene expression, with the greatest enhancement observed at ZT15. SOX2 and REX1 showed the most robust recovery under evening training conditions.The findings indicate that circadian timing modulates the beneficial effects of aerobic exercise on pluripotency gene expression in diabetic bone tissue. Evening exercise (ZT15) exerts superior restorative effects, suggesting that chronobiology aligned training may serve as an effective strategy for improving bone regenerative potential in diabetes.Copyright: © 2026 Janbozorgi et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
The loss of SOX2+GJA1- lens epithelial stem cells, along with a decrease in sphere-forming ability, was observed in the central zone of cataractous lenses. Nuclear localization of Yes-associated protein (YAP) has been associated with stemness in various tissues, and its conditional knockout was reported to develop cataract in mice. This study aims to investigate the expression of YAP and SOX2, along with other YAP signaling genes, in the anterior human lens epithelium of normal and cataractous lenses.Whole mounts of human anterior lens epithelium from normal and cataract lenses were immunostained for SOX2, YAP, and α-SMA, followed by confocal microscopic analysis. Further, the expression of YAP signaling genes was analyzed by Western blot.Nuclear expression of SOX2 and YAP was identified in the central (7.25 ± 3.63% of cells) and equatorial (9.15 ± 6.09% of cells) zones of normal lens epithelium. Such cells were absent in cataractous lenses along with a significant reduction in nuclear YAP expression. Western blot analysis confirmed the increased pYAP/YAP ratio and decreased MST2 and LATS1 in cataractous lens compared to normal lens epithelium. Furthermore, α-SMA expression was elevated in cataractous lens epithelium, indicating its association with cataract development.The absence of SOX2+YAP+ cells in cataractous lenses indicated the possible association between stem cells and cataract development. Further studies are essential to elucidate the role of YAP signaling in the pathogenesis of cataract.
Preterm brain injury (PBI) can lead to severe neurodevelopmental impairment. F-box and WD repeat domain-containing 7 (FBXW7) is a key regulator of neural development. This study evaluated the effect of FBXW7 on nerve regeneration after PBI.A mouse model of PBI and an in vitro model of oxygen-glucose deprivation/reperfusion (OGD/R) in neural stem cells (NSCs) were established. Cognitive and motor functions were assessed using Morris water maze, wire hanging, and cylinder tests. Histopathological changes and apoptosis were evaluated by hematoxylin and eosin and TdT-mediated dUTP Nick-End Labeling, and immunohistochemical staining for myelin basic protein and microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2). Neuroregeneration was analyzed via immunofluorescence (IF) staining for bromodeoxyuridine, doublecortin, and MAP2. FBXW7 and Notch receptor 1 (Notch1) expressions were detected by real-time quantitative PCR and Western blot. The viability, apoptosis and differentiation of NSCs were measured by cell counting kit-8, flow cytometry, and IF/Western blot. Protein interaction, stability, and ubiquitination were examined by co-immunoprecipitation and cycloheximide chase assays.FBXW7 expression was decreased in PBI mice and OGD/R-treated NSCs. Overexpression of FBXW7 significantly alleviated the pathological damage and behavioral impairments after PBI, and also enhanced the nerve regeneration process. Moreover, FBXW7 not only enhanced NSCs survival and suppressed apoptosis following OGD/R, but also actively drove their differentiation toward a neuronal lineage. Mechanistically, FBXW7 promoted the ubiquitination and degradation of Notch1. FBXW7 induced NSCs differentiation following OGD/R and mediated neuroprotection to protect PBI by inhibiting Notch1 signaling.By enhancing neuroregeneration via degradation of Notch1, FBXW7 appears to play a protective role in PBI, which suggests therapeutic targets for PBI treatment that merit further exploration.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
In cartilage-related studies, the existing in vitro cartilage models often fail to simulate the complex pathophysiology involving a hypoxic microenvironment, abnormal intercellular mechanical stress (microstress), and pathological crosstalk between chondrocytes and vascular endothelial cells. he aim of this study was to develop and validate a novel, simplified multi-cell-component cartilage organoid model capable of mimicking these three key OA-related features in vitro, using readily available cell lines.Organoids were constructed using SW1353 chondrocytes and HMEC-1 endothelial cell lines within low-adhesion grid microchambers. A monosodium iodoacetate (MIA)-induced OA model was developed. Histological and immunofluorescence analyses of the organoids were conducted to examine markers of matrix metabolism, cytoskeletal and intercellular microstress, hypoxic microenvironment, and chondrocyte -endothelial crosstalk. The organoid features were compared with those of standard 2D cell cultures and in vivo cartilages.The multi-cell-component organoids successfully recapitulated critical in vivo features. They exhibited MIA-induced F-actin reorganization and PIEZO1 upregulation, developed a hypoxic core with elevated hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha (HIF-1α) levels, and formed an endothelial shell that invasively disrupted the chondrocyte core upon MIA treatment. This disruption was accompanied by the activation of vascular endothelial growth factor -NOTCH receptor 1 -delta-like ligand 4 (VEGF -NOTCH1 -DLL4) signaling, mirroring the pathological chondrocyte -endothelial crosstalk. Single-cell-component organoids simulated microstress-related changes but not hypoxia or chondrocyte -endothelial crosstalk.The multi-cell-component cartilage organoids constructed from tumor-derived cell lines using low-adhesion grid microchambers partially simulated intercellular microstress, hypoxic microenvironment, and chondrocyte -endothelial crosstalk, which was similar to that observed in cartilages in vivo. These organoids provide a new strategy for conducting cartilage-related studies in vitro.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Zhu, Li, Zhang, Cheng and Cai.
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality, and therapeutic resistance limits durable responses. We investigated the antitumor activity of CDDO-TFEA, a synthetic trifluoroethyl amide derivative of 2-cyano-3,12-dioxoolean-1,9-dien-28-oic acid, in NSCLC models.A549 and H1299 cells were treated with CDDO-TFEA and evaluated using MTT assays, Annexin V/7-aminoactinomycin D flow cytometry, tumorsphere and tube-formation assays, immunoblotting, and A549 xenograft experiments.CDDO-TFEA decreased cell viability in a dose-dependent manner and induced apoptosis, as indicated by increased Annexin V positivity, PARP cleavage, cleaved caspase-3 expression, and TUNEL positivity. At 200 nM, CDDO-TFEA significantly suppressed tumorsphere formation in both cell lines and reduced CD133, octamer-binding transcription factor 4, SRY-box transcription factor 2, and vascular endothelial growth factor expression. Because only A549 cells formed tube-like networks, angiogenesis-related phenotypes were evaluated in A549 cells and were markedly inhibited by CDDO-TFEA. Mechanistically, CDDO-TFEA increased extracellular signal-regulated kinase phosphorylation, whereas MEK inhibition by U0126 or trametinib partially attenuated CDDO-TFEA-induced apoptosis and the suppression of tumorsphere formation, tube-like network formation, and stemness- and angiogenesis-related marker expression. In vivo, systemic CDDO-TFEA administration dose-dependently inhibited xenograft tumor growth.CDDO-TFEA exerts antitumor activity in NSCLC by inducing apoptosis and suppressing stemness-associated and angiogenesis-related phenotypes, partly through mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase signaling. These findings support further preclinical development of CDDO-TFEA in NSCLC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Cancer Stem Cells (CSCs) are the core drivers of esophageal cancer recurrence, metastasis, and treatment resistance, and their metabolic reprogramming characteristics provide an important entry point for targeted therapy. This study aimed to explore the role and regulatory mechanism of HACD1 (3-Hydroxyacyl-CoA Dehydrogenase 1), a key enzyme in lipid metabolism, in maintaining the stemness of esophageal cancer. Using the Patient-Derived Xenograft (PDX) cell line HD-12 and laboratory cell lines TE-1 and KYSE-150, a Tumoursphere (TS) stemness enrichment model was constructed, and systematic analysis was conducted by combining quantitative Polymerase Chain Reaction (qPCR), transcriptome sequencing, lipidomics, functional experiments, and animal models. The results showed that the upregulation of stemness markers (Oct4(Octamer-binding transcription factor 4), Sox2 (SRY-box transcription factor 2), etc.) in PDX-derived HD-12 tumourspheres was significantly higher than that in laboratory cell lines, with unique transcriptomic characteristics. Lipidomics confirmed that lipid metabolites such as Triglycerides (TG) and Long-Chain Fatty Acids (LCFA) were significantly enriched in tumourspheres. The HACD (3-Hydroxyacyl-CoA Dehydrogenase) family was specifically highly expressed in stem cells, and the enzymatic activity of HACD1 (3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydratase 1) was positively correlated with the stemness phenotype. HACD1 knockdown significantly inhibited esophageal cancer tumoursphere formation, cell migration, and in vivo tumourigenic ability, and downregulated the expression of stemness markers; exogenous supplementation of Docosahexaenoic Acid (DA) could reverse this inhibitory effect in a concentration-dependent manner. Metabolic analysis indicated that tumoursphere cells rely on both glycolysis and lipid oxidation for energy supply and possess metabolic flexibility, and blocking a single pathway cannot effectively inhibit stemness. This study is the first to confirm that HACD1 maintains the stemness phenotype of esophageal cancer by regulating lipid metabolism. The PDX model exhibits a unique stemness regulatory pattern closer to clinical practice, providing new molecular targets and experimental basis for the metabolic targeted therapy of esophageal cancer.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42443498 is a review article
This study aimed to investigate the mechanism by which Xinfeng Capsules(XFC), a traditional Chinese medicine preparation, ameliorates interstitial lung disease(ILD) in adjuvant arthritis(AA) model rats. It exerts the effect by regulating the adsorption of microRNA155(miR155) by metastasis-associated lung adenocarcinoma transcript 1(MALAT1), thereby ameliorating the abnormal expression of miR155 and subsequently modulating the neurogenic locus Notch homolog protein(Notch)-recombination signal binding protein for immunoglobulin kappa J region(RBP-Jκ) signaling pathway. An AA rat model was established, and after intragastric administration of XFC, pharmacodynamic evaluation was conducted on rats in each group, including arthritis index scoring, paw swelling measurement, pulmonary function test, and histopathological examinations of lung tissue and ankle joint synovium. ELISA was used to detect the levels of related inflammatory cytokines. RT-qPCR was performed to determine the expression levels of long non-coding RNA(lncRNA) MALAT1, miR155 and genes related to the Notch-RBP-Jκ signaling pathway, while Western blot was applied to examine the protein expression of ETS transcription factor-1(ETS-1) and RBP-Jκ. The results showed that, compared with the model group, XFC significantly improved pulmonary function, alleviated paw swelling, and inhibited fibrous hyperplasia and inflammatory cell infiltration in synovial and lung tissue of AA rats. It also reduced the serum levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor-α(TNF-α), interleukin-1β(IL-1β) and interleukin-6(IL-6), thereby alleviating the systemic inflammatory responses. In addition, XFC ameliorated the aberrant expression of lncRNA MALAT1 and miR155, inhibited the transcription of Notch homolog 1(Notch1), Jagged canonical Notch ligand 1(Jagged1), nuclear factor of activated T cells cytoplasmic 1(NFATC1) and interferon regulatory factor 8(IRF8), and further promoted the protein expression of ETS-1 while suppressing RBP-Jκ protein expression. In summary, XFC may exert its effects by enhancing the roles of lncRNA MALAT1 as a molecular sponge to adsorb miR155, thereby inhibiting the aberrant expression of miR155, which in turn modulates the overactivation and transcription of the Notch-RBP-Jκ signaling pathway, suppresses the articular inflammatory response and ameliorates ILD lesions in AA rats.
The present study aimed to investigate the involvement of T‑box transcription factor 15 (TBX15) in the immune evasion by gastric cancer (GC) cells, as well as the molecular pathways that regulate TBX15 upstream and downstream. GC and paracancerous tissues were collected to verify the expression of TBX15, matrix metalloproteinase 14 (MMP14) and methyltransferase‑like 3 (METTL3) using reverse transcription‑quantitative PCR and western blotting. The co‑culture system of GC cell‑tumor‑associated macrophages (TAMs) and mouse forestomach carcinoma (MFC) cell‑CD8+ T cells was constructed. TBX15, MMP14 and METTL3 were highly expressed in GC tissues. Kaplan‑Meier analyses were performed, and high TBX15 expression predicted a poor prognosis for patients with GC. Silencing TBX15 promoted GC cell apoptosis and inhibited tumor development and the activity of proliferation, migration and invasion. TBX15 targeted the MMP14 promoter by using ChIP‑qPCR. Overexpression of MMP14 attenuated the reduction caused by TBX15 silencing. METTL3 targets TBX15 mRNA and regulates the m6A level of TBX15. TBX15 is associated with macrophage and CD8+ T cell infiltration. In the co‑culture system of GC‑TAM and MFC‑CD8+ T cells, TBX15 overexpression alleviated the decrease in M2 polarization and activation of CD8+ T cell antitumor activity caused by METTL3 silencing. However, MMP14 overexpression resulted in TBX15 silence‑induced decreases in M1 macrophage polarization and CD8+ T cell activity. These data suggested that TBX15, correlated with poor prognosis in patients with GC, promotes immune escape in GC cells. TBX15, regulated by m6A methylation, targeted the MMP14 promoter, thereby regulating MMP14 expression. The METTL3/TBX15/MMP14 signaling axis was involved in GC cell development, M2 macrophage polarization and CD8+ T cell antitumor activity activation. These findings provide a fundamental experimental rationale for TBX15 as a potential therapeutic target for GC.
Bone is a primary site for lung cancer metastasis, and T-box transcription factor 15 (Tbx15) is aberrantly expressed in multiple cancers. It aims to investigate the role of Tbx15 in lung cancer bone metastasis and its potential mechanisms. TCGA and cellular analyses revealed elevated Tbx15 lung adenocarcinoma tissues and cells (MLE-12, CMT64, LA795, LLC), while recombinant IL-25 (rIL-25) expression was low in supernatants and lysates. And Pearson analysis showed a negative correlation between Tbx15 and IL-25. The CCK-8 and EdU assays showed that Tbx15 knockdown inhibited LA795 cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. In vivo, simultaneous Tbx15 knockdown and rIL-25 administration promote tumor cell growth and accelerate bone metastasis in mice. Mechanistically, Tbx15 knockdown upregulates IL-25 expression, thereby promoting apoptosis of osteoclasts (OCs) and suppressing bone metastasis. Besides, OCs were treated with rIL-25 and the apoptosis inhibitor Z-VAD-FMK, and found that extracellular IL-25 protein promoted apoptosis of OCs by upregulating major vault protein (MVP) expression. In conclusion, our study demonstrates that knockdown of Tbx15 upregulates IL-25 expression to promote apoptosis of OCs, while exogenous supplementation of IL-25 promotes proliferation and bone metastasis of lung adenocarcinoma cells. The dual role of IL-25 in Tbx15-positive lung adenocarcinoma cells and its potential regulatory mechanism were elucidated.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is more common in certain geographic regions and populations and is frequently diagnosed at advanced stages, highlighting the importance of identifying factors associated with survival.Patients were selected from two previously conducted genome-wide association studies, resulting in a discovery cohort (n=314) and a validation cohort (n=135). Overall survival and disease-free survival were analyzed using Cox proportional hazards models adjusted for clinical covariates in both cohorts and a combined analysis of the data. Variants associated with survival in both cohorts (p<0.05) and showing consistent direction of effects were retained, and combined p-values are reported.The T allele of rs4671908, a variant located upstream of pleckstrin (PLEK) was linked to worse overall survival (hazard ratio=1.85, 95% confidence interval=1.48-2.32; p<10-7). The T allele of rs2238431, a variant located within adenylate cyclase 9 (ADCY9), was associated with poor disease-free survival (hazard ratio=1.73, 95% confidence interval=1.44-2.08; p<10-8). Both associations remained significant after Bonferroni correction. Functional annotation suggested that the T allele of rs4671908 was associated with increased PLEK expression and overlaps a predicted POU class 5 homeobox 1 (POU5F1)-binding site. The risky allele was more common in East Asian populations, consistent with the geographic distribution of NPC. The T allele of rs2238431 was associated with reduced expression of ADCY9.This study identified rs4671908 and rs2238431 as germline variants associated with survival outcomes in NPC and provides epidemiological evidence that may inform future prognostic stratification of high-incidence populations.Copyright © 2026 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
The development of engineered Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cell lines capable of long-term, stable, and efficient recombinant protein expression is essential for industrial biologics manufacturing. Traditional random integration is hindered by epigenetic silencing and position effects, while current site-specific strategies are restricted by a limited stable library. To address this, we established a screening strategy based on two core criteria for ideal loci: 1) the capacity for sustained exogenous protein expression and 2) minimal impact on host cell physiology. By analyzing chromosomal location and expression data from 52 known stable loci, we identified 3,152 highly expressed genes. Subsequent Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analyses excluded genes essential for core growth and metabolism, yielding 252 candidate sites. These were further refined to 25 ideal candidate loci by evaluating their betweenness centrality in a protein-protein interaction (PPI) network, prioritizing hubs with potential genomic stability. After 40 generations of continuous culture, the Enhanced Green Fluorescent Protein (EGFP)-positive rates of DNA ligase 4-like protein (LIG4), L-threonine 3-dehydrogenase, mitochondrial (LOC100759874), and alpha-aminoadipic semialdehyde synthase, mitochondrial (AASS), remained above 95%. This study established an orthogonal functional enrichment screening strategy, which significantly improved the discovery efficiency of stable expression sites in CHO cells and laid a foundation for constructing highly stable recombinant cell lines suitable for industrial production.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Liver cancer progression is largely driven by liver cancer stem cells (LCSCs), which possess self-renewal capacity and intrinsic resistance to therapy. Emerging evidence suggests that nuclear pore complexes exhibit cell type-specific compositions that dynamically adapt to different developmental or pathologic contexts. However, whether LCSCs harbor a unique nucleoporin profile that contributes to their stem-like properties remains unclear. In this research, the expression landscape of nucleoporins (NUPs) in LCSCs was explored, and NUP188 was identified as selectively up-regulated in LCSCs. Functional assays demonstrated that NUP188 is essential for maintaining the tumorigenicity, proliferation, and self-renewal capacity of liver cancer cells in vitro as well as in vivo. At the mechanistic level, NUP188 promotes liver cancer progression through two complementary pathways: it facilitates importin-β-mediated nuclear import of POU class 5 homeobox 1, and simultaneously stabilizes SRY-box transcription factor 2 by preventing its lysosome-dependent degradation. These dual mechanisms converge to maintain the stem-like phenotype of LCSCs. Furthermore, a NUP188-targeting peptide was designed that effectively suppressed tumor sphere formation and proliferative capacity of liver cancer cells in vitro and inhibited tumor growth in vivo, without detectable systemic toxicity. In summary, these findings emphasize NUP188 as a key modulator of LCSC stemness and liver cancer progression, highlighting it as an attractive target for therapeutic intervention in liver cancer.Copyright © 2026 American Society for Investigative Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
As a main component of the tissue microenvironment, the extracellular matrix (ECM) provides an instructive niche that regulates stem cell differentiation. Biomimetic ECM collagen hydrogels have been well regarded as ideal scaffold for cartilage tissue engineering due to their ability to promote chondrogenic differentiation of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs). However, the molecular mechanisms underlying this inductive effect remain incompletely elucidated.In the present study, mRNA microarray analysis was performed to investigate the molecular mechanisms involved in collagen hydrogel-mediated chondrogenic induction. Real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), western blot, immunofluorescence analyses, etc. were used to validate the relevant pathways.The results demonstrated that POU class 5 homeobox 1 (POU5F1), a transcription factor associated with stem cell differentiation and autophagy, was highly expressed in cells induced by collagen hydrogel. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were predominantly enriched in the AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) / mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling pathway. Knockdown of POU5F1 suppressed activation of the AMPK/mTOR pathway and subsequently reduced intracellular autophagic flux, leading to impaired cartilage regeneration. These effects were partially reversed by treatment with rapamycin (RaPa), an mTOR inhibitor.The findings highlight a critical role of autophagy in chondrogenic induction mediated by biomimetic ECM collagen hydrogel and provide mechanistic insight that may inform the rational design optimization of cartilage repair biomaterials.© The author(s).
Hepatocellular carcinoma (LIHC) is the most common primary liver cancer, with high recurrence and metastasis rates, and its molecular mechanisms remain incompletely understood.The cancer genome atlas (TCGA) database was used to obtain LIHC-related information. TNMplot, gene expression profiling interactive analysis (GEPIA), and kaplan-meier plotter were used for differential gene expression analysis, visualization, and assessing the relationship between genes and patient survival. Reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and western blot (WB) were used to detect gene and protein expression levels. Cell transfection was used for gene knockdown and overexpression. Transwell and wound healing assays were used to evaluate cell migration and invasion. The jaspar database was used to predict transcription factor-gene interactions. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and dual-luciferase assays were used to validate transcription factor-gene binding.Never in mitosis gene a related kinase 2 (NEK2) was highly expressed in LIHC, and its high expression potentially had a negative impact on patient survival. NEK2 knockdown reduced the migration and invasion abilities of LIHC cells, decreased the expression of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) markers neural cadherin (N-cadherin) and vimentin, and increased epithelial cadherin (E-cadherin) expression, whereas NEK2 overexpression showed the opposite effects. E2F transcription factor 1 (E2F1) was also highly expressed in LIHC and positively regulated NEK2, exhibiting similar regulatory effects on LIHC cells. Moreover, NEK2 was positively correlated with Wnt/β-catenin marker catenin beta 1 (CTNNB1), as well as Notch signaling markers notch receptor 1 (NOTCH1), jagged canonical notch ligand 1 (JAG1), HES family BHLH transcription factor 1 (HES1), and HES-related family BHLH transcription factor with YRPW motif 1 (HEY1).The E2F1/NEK2 axis promotes the activation of Wnt/β-catenin and Notch signaling pathways and induces EMT to drive malignant behavior of LIHC cells.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Mislocalization and aggregation of the DNA/RNA binding protein, TDP-43, is seen in most cases of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-frontotemporal dementia (ALS-FTD). Accumulating DNA damage in neurons is also a common feature of ALS-FTD. TDP-43 has several characterized roles in the regulation of the DNA damage response (DDR). This review systematically explored the relationship between TDP-43, DNA damage and the DNA damage response in various models of ALS-FTD, facilitating comparison of findings between studies using similar models. Twelve peer-reviewed papers, covering eight TDP-43 mutations out of nearly 40, were reviewed and five experimental models included: cell lines, patient-derived iPS cells, organoids, and rodent models, plus post-mortem cortex and spinal cord tissue from ALS-FTD patients. Across the studies and models, depletion of TDP-43 or ALS-linked mutations consistently increased genomic instability. Q331K-expressing cells showed a 2-3-fold reduction in DNA repair activity and a 4-6-fold increase in DDR activation, while TDP-43-depleted cells showed a 20-fold rise in double strand breaks. TDP-43 normally binds to damaged chromatin, participates in early DDR signaling and scaffolds core DNA damage repair factors, including Ku70, XRCC4 and DNA ligase 4. This systematic review and narrative synthesis sheds light on mechanisms that explain how TDP-43 dysfunction impairs genome maintenance. When TDP-43 is mislocalized, mutated or aggregated, these interactions are disrupted, resulting in impaired DNA repair. DNA damage is also caused by increasing R-loops, dysregulation of mismatch repair gene transcription, and sequestering of repair proteins into cytoplasmic inclusions. Upstream DNA damage can further drive TDP-43 mislocalisation, creating a feed-forward loop. Given the ubiquity of TDP-43 pathology across neurodegenerative diseases, targeting the DDR mechanisms affected by TDP-43 may offer new therapeutic opportunities.Copyright © 2026 Almalki, Salama, Taylor, Ahmed and Tuxworth.
Corticosteroids are among the most highly prescribed drugs. Chronic treatment with corticosteroids causes osteopenia, as well as growth failure in children. Our goal was to identify serum biomarkers of prednisone-related perturbations of bone and/or cartilage metabolism associated with growth failure in children. We utilized longitudinal serum samples from a double-blind, placebo- and prednisone-controlled trial of vamorolone in 4 to < 7 years children with Duchenne muscular dystrophy assayed by proteomic methods. Vamorolone is a recently approved bone-sparing corticosteroid that has been shown to have similar efficacy as prednisone but does not cause growth failure. The study included a 24-week Period 1 (placebo, prednisone [0.75 mg/kg/day], vamorolone [6 mg/kg/day]), and a 24-week Period 2 where placebo and vamorolone groups crossed over to vamorolone. Clinical laboratory measures of ALP, osteocalcin, P1NP, and CTX1 showed significant reductions with prednisone, but were unchanged by vamorolone treatment or placebo. Proteomics studies of serum proteins reduced by prednisone, but not vamorolone or placebo, identified 10 proteins where mutations in the corresponding genes are known to cause genetic disorders of cartilage and/or bone (collagens [COL2A1, Chondrocalcin, COL6A1, COL9A1, COL10A1, COL11A2], aggrecan core protein [ACAN], biglycan [BGN], osteopetrosis-associated transmembrane protein 1 [OSTM1], and noggin [NOG]). On transitioning from prednisone to vamorolone, all 10 biomarkers returned to baseline levels. Non-human (animal) studies have shown that traditional corticosteroids cause apoptosis of terminal hypertrophic chondrocytes associated with growth failure. Our clinical trial studies suggest that the 10 novel, corticosteroid-related biomarkers likely reflect the induction of apoptosis in terminal hypertrophic chondrocytes and osteoblasts by traditional corticosteroids. Vamorolone may spare chondrocytes and osteoblasts from this apoptosis, consistent with maintenance of normal growth in vamorolone-treated children.Trial registration The clinical trial registration (clinicaltrials.gov) is NCT03439670 ( https://www.clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03439670 ).© 2026. The Author(s).
Poor tendon-bone healing is a major challenge after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR). TFRD, the total flavonoids of Rhizoma Drynariae, has pharmacological effects in promoting bone formation, but it remains less understood whether it accelerates tendon-bone healing by regulating the osteogenic differentiation of tendon-derived stem cells (TDSCs). TDSCs were isolated from the Achilles tendons of rats and characterized for their stem cell properties through flow cytometry and multilineage differentiation assays. The effects of TFRD on TDSC proliferation, migration, and osteogenic differentiation were evaluated using the cell counting kit-8 assay, scratch wound healing assays, Alizarin Red S staining, and Western blot analysis. Gene and protein expression levels associated with the transforming growth factor-β/bone morphogenetic protein (TGF-β/BMP) signaling pathway were assessed by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction and Western blot. A rat ACLR model was created and divided into four experimental groups: Sham, ACLR, TFRD, and TFRD + Noggin. Tendon-bone healing was analyzed using hematoxylin and eosin staining, Masson's trichrome staining, bone mineral density measurements, and immunohistochemistry. Noggin was used to inhibit BMP signaling for pathway validation. TFRD (50-100 μg/mL) significantly enhanced the proliferation, migration, and osteogenic differentiation of TDSCs, and increased the expression of key osteogenic markers, including runt-related transcription factor 2 (RUNX2) and alkaline phosphatase (ALP). Mechanistically, TFRD activated the TGF-β/BMP signaling pathway, leading to elevated levels of TGF-β1, BMP-2, and phosphorylated Smad1/5/8. Moreover, TGF-β1 extended the duration of BMP-2 signaling and suppressed Noggin expression. The osteogenic effects of TFRD were diminished when Noggin was applied, indicating its role in modulating the BMP pathway. In vivo, TFRD significantly improved collagen fiber alignment, calcification, and bone mineral density at the tendon-bone junction, while also upregulating RUNX2 and ALP expression. TFRD promotes osteogenic differentiation of TDSCs by activating the TGF-β/BMP signaling pathway, improves tendon-bone healing after ACLR, and provides experimental support for its clinical application.© 2026. The Society for In Vitro Biology.
Patient-derived organoids (PDOs) can recapitulate selected features of original tumors and provide a useful system for studying epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) in three-dimensional culture. Nonetheless, the protocol to generate EOC-PDOs has not yet been standardized. We therefore empirically refined the culture conditions and medium composition, considering the protocol effective when EOC PDOs were successfully established in five consecutive attempts. Tissue and ascites samples (from 29 and 8 patients, respectively) were used and the Syringe-extruded Organoid Basement membrane extract Assembly (SOBA) fragment culture method applied. Selected similarities in cell morphology, marker expression, and detectable alterations between organoids and patient-matched tumor tissue were assessed using pairwise comparisons. The refined workflow used a culture medium containing recombinant human R-Spondin 1 protein (250 ng/mL), Noggin, and NRG1, factors implicated in organoid maintenance and expansion. Ultimately, 31 EOC organoid lines successfully generated from 82.8% (24/29) of tissue and 87.5% (7/8) of ascites samples. The SOBA technique increased the 10 day PDO yield by 2.75-fold relative to the surface-attached dome method (p < 0.0001). This empirically refined workflow can be adjusted for specific experimental applications; however, further validation across larger and clinically diverse EOC cohorts is required.© 2026. The Author(s).
Demineralized bone matrix (DBM) is widely used as an alternative to autografts for repairing bone defects, but its clinical efficacy is limited by poor retention at the defect site and inadequate osteogenic capacity. Here, we developed a multifunctional carrier system aimed at improving the capacity of DBM by utilizing nanoclay-based self-assembly along with cell-derived exosome mimetics (EMs). EMs were derived from mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) osteogenically induced in spheroids and were functionalized with bisphosphonates (BP) to assemble a stable gel network with laponite nanoclays via BP-nanoclay edge interactions. The resulting self-assembled nanoclay gel exhibited excellent injectability, moldability, and self-healing properties, even when loaded with a high concentration of DBM, and supported MSC osteogenic differentiation. We further enhanced the potency of DBM-mediated osteogenesis and bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signaling in the nanoclay gel by incorporating BP-functionalized EMs (EM-BPs) loaded with miR-200c that can target BMP antagonist noggin. Lastly, we validated the bone regeneration efficacy of DBM-loaded nanoclay gels in comparison to commercially available DBM putties using a mouse calvarial defect model. This approach presents a versatile nanoclay gel carrier platform that overcomes the limitations of current DBM formulations and provides a promising strategy for improved bone repair.
Acquired resistance to osimertinib poses a major challenge in treating EGFR-mutant lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD). Here, we demonstrate that shikonin, a natural compound from Lithospermum erythrorhizon, synergizes with osimertinib to overcome this resistance by inducing ferroptosis. In osimertinib-resistant LUAD cells (PC9-OR/H1975-OR), the shikonin-osimertinib combination significantly enhances cytotoxicity and suppresses proliferation while triggering ferroptotic events, including reactive oxygen species accumulation, lipid peroxidation, and iron overload alongside glutathione depletion. RNA-sequencing identifies Hes family BHLH transcription factor 1 (HES1) downregulation as crucial to this process. HES1 knockdown replicates the combination's effects, confirming its key role. Mechanistically, ATF3 is identified as a direct transcriptional target of HES1, with HES1 binding to the ATF3 promoter (-786 to -779 nt) to repress its transcription. The shikonin-osimertinib combination relieves this repression, leading to ATF3-mediated suppression of the ferroptosis regulators SLC7A11 and GPX4. In vivo, this combination potently inhibits tumor growth in xenograft models without observable toxicity. Our study reveals a novel HES1/ATF3 axis governing ferroptosis and proposes shikonin as a promising therapeutic adjuvant to overcome osimertinib resistance in LUAD.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42410182
Skipped: PubMed ID 42400424 is a review article
The intestinal porcine epithelial cell line (IPEC-J2) is a nontransformed jejunal model derived from unsuckled piglets. It is increasingly used in gut physiology research, yet its application to nutrient absorption remains underexplored. Four media types were assessed for their ability to support IPEC-J2 barrier maturation and permeability: Dulbecco's modified Eagle medium/Ham's F-12 with 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS10), 10% porcine serum (PS10), 5% porcine serum (PS5) supplemented with Wnt3a-R-spondin-Noggin conditioned medium (PS5+L-WRN), and PS5 with epidermal growth factor and insulin-transferrin-selenium (PS5+EGF+ITS). Culture medium influenced epithelial phenotype, with more than a 30-fold range in transepithelial electrical resistance (TEER), which plateaued by day 12. PS10 supported a balanced profile, characterized by intermediate TEER (2395.00 ± 485.51 Ω × cm2), lowest lactulose and mannitol permeability (p < 0.05), high lactate dehydrogenase activity (p < 0.05 vs. PS5+L-WRN and FBS10), enhanced membrane localization of tight junction proteins (p < 0.05 vs. PS5+EGF+ITS), and reduced fibroblast marker S100A4 (p < 0.05 vs. PS5+EGF+ITS). Treatment with digested infant milk formula did not compromise barrier integrity in PS10-cultured IPEC-J2 monolayers and enabled transport of free amino acids to the basolateral compartment. These findings support IPEC-J2 as an alternative to Caco-2 cells for applications in infant nutrition research in vitro.© 2026 The Author(s). Molecular Nutrition & Food Research published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Neuroendocrine prostate cancer (NEPC) is a lethal subtype of prostate cancer (PCa) that emerges under androgen deprivation and is associated with therapeutic resistance. The contribution of volume-regulated anion channels (VRACs) to this process remains poorly understood. This study identified leucine-rich repeat-containing 8 subunit D (LRRC8D), a VRAC subunit, as the only family member consistently downregulated in NEPC and associated with neuroendocrine (NE)-like features. LRRC8D downregulation was accompanied by suppression of swelling-activated VRAC currents, increased synaptophysin (SYP) expression, decreased cisplatin sensitivity, and neurosecretory remodeling. Conversely, LRRC8D overexpression enhanced cisplatin-induced apoptosis, reduced colony formation, and suppressed tumor growth in xenograft models, including under cisplatin treatment. Consistent alterations in LRRC8D and SYP expression were also observed in enzalutamide-resistant patient-derived organoids. Mechanistically, RE1-silencing transcription factor (REST) promoted LRRC8D transcription. Functional analyses further demonstrated that CAV-1 acted upstream of LRRC8D, and LRRC8D negatively regulated STAT3 activation. Together, these findings indicate that LRRC8D influences PCa phenotype and platinum responsiveness, and implicate a regulatory axis involving LRRC8D and CAV-1/STAT3 signaling in NE-associated features of advanced PCa. Functional analyses further showed that CAV-1 acted upstream of LRRC8D, and LRRC8D negatively regulated STAT3 activation. Together, these findings indicate that LRRC8D influences PCa phenotype and platinum responsiveness and implicate a regulatory axis involving LRRC8D and CAV-1/STAT3 signaling in NE-associated features of advanced PCa.
Retinoic acid, acting through RAR/RXR nuclear receptors, is required for neuronal differentiation in Xenopus laevis. Bexarotene, characterised as a pan-RXR agonist, reduces the symptoms of Alzheimer's disease in mouse models by clearing amyloid plaque and by promoting neurogenesis. In this paper, we show that RXR-initiated bexarotene signalling generates additional neurons both during normal X. laevis development and in ectodermal explants in which bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signalling is inhibited. Differential gene expression analysis between ectodermal explants taken from uninjected embryos and from embryos co-injected with mRNA that expresses Noggin, a BMP antagonist, and RXRβ identifies genes mediating the transition from an epidermal to a neural fate. The explants express genes associated with an anterior neural fate, but not a neuronal fate. The addition of bexarotene to equivalent co-injected explants activates genes that promote neuronal differentiation and posterior character, including genes of the canonical Wnt signalling pathway. Xenopus ectodermal explants therefore provide a simple and efficient tool to identify novel retinoid agonists that promote neuronal differentiation. The genes expressed in response to bexarotene are consistent with a pathway to neuronal differentiation allied to standard retinoid signalling.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Defective small nuclear (sn)RNAs are produced from hundreds of human snRNA pseudogenes and mutant snRNA genes associated with human developmental disorders. Machineries that prevent defective snRNAs from disrupting pre-mRNA splicing remain poorly defined. Here, we identify multiple checkpoints in snRNA biogenesis monitored by quality control machineries that subject defective snRNAs to degradation and prevent their assembly into spliceosomes. We show that variant U1 snRNAs produced from human pseudogenes, some at rates approaching the canonical snRNAs, are impaired in 3' cleavage and targeted for degradation by the NEXT-exosome while failures in subsequent protein assembly steps promote NEXT-exosome- or Terminal Uridylyl Transferase 4/7-mediated degradation. These pathways also repress mutant snRNAs associated with human developmental disorders. Impeding snRNA quality control causes formation of aberrant spliceosomes and altered pre-mRNA splicing. These findings define checkpoints in snRNA biogenesis that safeguard pre-mRNA splicing and represent potential therapeutic targets for human disorders associated with snRNA mutations.
During the maternal-to-zygotic transition (MZT), the programmed decay of maternal mRNAs is critical for successful embryonic development. Although autophagy is known to participate in early embryonic development, its specific role in maternal mRNA clearance remains unclear. MAP1LC3B/LC3B, a key autophagy-related protein, has recently been identified as an RNA-binding protein; however, whether it contributes to maternal mRNA degradation has not been established. Through integrative analyses combining RIP-seq, RNA-seq, and CUT&Tag in early embryos, we identified LC3B as a maternal mRNA-binding protein essential for mRNA degradation. LC3B-mediated mRNA decay exhibited faster kinetics than the classical BTG4-CCR4-NOT pathway. Knockdown of LC3B or inhibition of autophagy significantly delayed maternal mRNA clearance, resulting in impaired zygotic genome activation (ZGA) and developmental arrest. Further analysis revealed the maternal Suv39h2 as a key LC3B-target gene, whose abnormal persistence correlates with developmental failure. Our findings revealed an autophagy-dependent mRNA clearance pathway mediated by LC3B, providing novel mechanistic insights into maternal mRNA decay and developmental regulation during mammalian MZT.Abbreviations: BTG4: BTG anti-proliferation factor 4; E2C: early 2-cell; GV: germinal vesicle; H3K9me3: histone H3 lysine 9 trimethylation; L2C: late 2-cell; MII: metaphase II; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MD: maternal mRNAs decay; MERVL: murine endogenous retrovirus-L; MZT: maternal-to-zygotic transition; PN5: pronuclear stage 5; Suv39h2: suppressor of variegation 3-9 2; TUT7: terminal uridylyl transferase 7; TUT4: terminal uridylyl transferase 4; ZGA: zygotic genome activation.
Coronaviruses replicate by using the 3C-like protease (3CLpro) to cleave polyprotein precursors and host proteins. However, current tools for identifying 3CLpro cleavage sites are limited, particularly in Gammacoronaviruses (GammaCoV) and Deltacoronaviruses (DeltaCoV). This study aims to fill this gap by identifying 3CLpro cleavage sites in these viruses to provide deeper insights into their pathogenic mechanisms. By integrating sequence alignments and structural model comparisons, we developed a position-specific scoring matrix (PSSM) based on self-cleavage motifs, revealing specific preferences for each residue. Utilizing AlphaFold2's predicted alignment error (PAE) and predicted local distance difference test (pLDDT), we found that most cleavage sequences are located in regions with high PAE and low pLDDT values. KEGG pathway analysis showed that potential host protein cleavage targets are mainly concentrated in pathways related to nucleo-cytoplasmic transport and endocytosis. Through in vitro cleavage experiments and mutational analysis, we identified and validated three high-scoring proteins-nucleoporin 58 (NUP58), cell division cycle 73 (CDC73), and signal transducing adaptor molecule 2 (STAM2). These findings suggest that 3CLpro not only plays a vital role in viral replication but may also influence host cell functions by cleaving host proteins. This study provides an effective tool for identifying 3CLpro cleavage sites, revealing the pathogenic mechanisms of coronaviruses, and offering new insights for developing potential therapeutic targets.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Parathyroid cancer has been linked to germline mutations of the Cell Division Cycle 73 (CDC73) gene. However, carriers harboring cancer-associated germline CDC73 mutations may develop only parathyroid adenoma or no parathyroid disease. This incomplete penetrance indicates that additional genomic events are required for parathyroid tumorigenesis.(1) Determine the status of the second CDC73 allele in parathyroid tumors harboring germline CDC73 mutations and (2) compare the genomic landscapes between parathyroid carcinomas and adenomas.Whole-exome and RNA sequencing of 12 parathyroid tumors harboring germline CDC73 mutations (6 adenomas and 6 carcinomas) and their matched normal tissues.All 12 parathyroid tumors had gained 1 somatic event predicted to cause a complete inactivation of the second CDC73 allele. Several distinctive genomic features were identified in parathyroid carcinomas compared to adenomas, including more single nucleotide variants bearing the C > G transversion and APOBEC deamination signatures, frequent mutations of the genes involved in the PI-3K/mTOR signaling, a greater number of copy number variations, and substantially more genes with altered expression. Parathyroid carcinomas also share some genomic features with adenomas. For instance, both have recurrent somatic mutations and copy number loss that impact the genes involved in T-cell receptor signaling and tumor antigen presentation, suggesting a shared strategy to evade immune surveillance.Biallelic inactivation of CDC73 is essential for parathyroid tumorigenesis in carriers harboring germline mutations of this gene. Despite sharing some genomic features with adenomas, parathyroid carcinomas have more distinctive alterations in the genome, some of which may be critical for cancer formation.Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Endocrine Society 2024.
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is the most common reproductive-endocrine disorder with wide-ranging metabolic implications, including obesity. RNA editing, a post-transcriptional modification, can fine-tune protein function and introduce heterogeneity. However, the role of RNA editing and its impact on adipose tissue function in PCOS remain poorly understood.This study aimed to comprehensively analyze RNA-editing events in abdominal and subcutaneous adipose tissue of PCOS patients and healthy controls using high-throughput whole-genome sequencing (WGS) and RNA sequencing.Our results revealed that PCOS patients exhibited more RNA-editing sites, with adenosine-to-inosine (A-to-I) editing being prevalent. The expression of ADAR genes, responsible for A-to-I editing, was also higher in PCOS. Aberrant RNA-editing sites in PCOS adipose tissue was enriched in immune responses, and interleukin-12 biosynthetic process. Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) signaling, nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) signaling, Notch signaling, terminal uridylyl transferase 4 (TUT4), hook microtubule tethering protein 3 (HOOK3), and forkhead box O1 (FOXO1) were identified to be of significant differences. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in PCOS adipose tissue were enriched in immune responses compared with controls, and the DEGs between subcutaneous and abdominal adipose tissue were also enriched in immune responses suggesting the important role of subcutaneous adipose tissue. Furthermore, we identified the correlations between RNA editing levels and RNA expression levels of specific genes, such as ataxia-telangiectasia mutated (ATM) and mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma translocation protein 1 (MALT1) in inflammation pathways and ATM, TUT4, and YTH N6-methyladenosine RNA-binding protein C2 (YTHDC2) in oocyte development pathway.These findings suggest that RNA-editing dysregulation in PCOS adipose tissue may contribute to inflammatory dysregulations. Understanding the interplay between RNA editing and adipose tissue function may unveil potential therapeutic targets for PCOS management. However, further research and validation are required to fully elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying these associations.Copyright © 2024 Chen, Li, Gao, Cheng, Zhang, Liu, Chen, Liao and Qin.
Introduction: The most common primary brain tumor in adults is glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), accounting for 45.2% of all cases. The characteristics of GBM, a highly aggressive brain tumor, include rapid cell division and a propensity for necrosis. Regretfully, the prognosis is extremely poor, with only 5.5% of patients surviving after diagnosis. Methodology: To eradicate these kinds of complicated diseases, significant focus is placed on developing more effective drugs and pinpointing precise pharmacological targets. Finding appropriate biomarkers for drug discovery entails considering a variety of factors, including illness states, gene expression levels, and interactions between proteins. Using statistical techniques like p-values and false discovery rates, we identified differentially expressed genes (DEGs) as the first step in our research for identifying promising biomarkers in GBM. Of the 132 genes, 13 showed upregulation, and only 29 showed unique downregulation. No statistically significant changes in the expression of the remaining genes were observed. Results: Matrix metallopeptidase 9 (MMP9) had the greatest degree in the hub biomarker gene identification, followed by (periostin (POSTN) at 11 and Hes family BHLH transcription factor 5 (HES5) at 9. The significance of the identification of each hub biomarker gene in the initiation and advancement of glioblastoma multiforme was brought to light by the survival analysis. Many of these genes participate in signaling networks and function in extracellular areas, as demonstrated by the enrichment analysis.We also identified the transcription factors and kinases that control proteins in the proteinprotein interactions (PPIs) of the DEGs. Discussion: We discovered drugs connected to every hub biomarker. It is an appealing therapeutic target for inhibiting MMP9 involved in GBM. Molecular docking investigations indicated that the chosen complexes (carmustine, lomustine, marimastat, and temozolomide) had high binding affinities of -6.3, -7.4, -7.7, and -8.7 kcal/mol, respectively, the mean root-mean-square deviation (RMSD) value for the carmustine complex and marimastat complex was 4.2 Å and 4.9 Å, respectively, and the lomustine and temozolomide complex system showed an average RMSD of 1.2 Å and 1.6 Å, respectively. Additionally, high stability in root-mean-square fluctuation (RMSF) analysis was observed with no structural conformational changes among the atomic molecules. Thus, these in silico investigations develop a new way for experimentalists to target lethal diseases in future.Copyright © 2024 Alqahtani, Altharawi, Alabbas, Ahmad, Ayaz, Nawaz, Rahman and Alossaimi.
The role of human cell division cycle 73 (CDC73) in human cancers has sparked controversy; however, its significance in oesophageal cancer remains elusive. This study aimed to elucidate CDC73 expression and its biological implications in human oesophageal cancer. Our findings unveiled a notable upregulation of CDC73 in both oesophageal cancer cell lines and tissues. Importantly, elevated CDC73 levels in patients with oesophageal cancer correlated with an unfavourable prognosis. Functional investigations revealed that CDC73 knockdown effectively curtailed the proliferation and growth of oesophageal cancer cells both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, RRP15 emerged as a potential downstream target of CDC73 through a screening process involving identification of the top co-expressed genes, subsequent knockdown experiments, and observation of significant inhibition of cell proliferation, with RRP15 showing the most pronounced effect. This finding was further supported by the positive correlation observed between CDC73 and RRP15 in ESCA samples analysed using the ENCORI Pan-Cancer Analysis Platform. Notably, depletion of RRP15 in CDC73-overexpressing cells led to a shift from augmented to diminished tumour growth. Collectively, our findings underscore the pivotal role of CDC73 in oesophageal cancer through the modulation of RRP15 expression, suggesting CDC73 as a potential therapeutic target for treating oesophageal cancer.© 2024 Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Asymptomatic primary hyperparathyroidism (PHPT) is often missed in developing nations due to limited formal healthcare exposure and biochemical screening programs. Many patients are thus only diagnosed once symptomatic. We present a 32-year-old female who developed bony protrusions in her jaw during pregnancy, resulting in a stillbirth. Three months later, during a dental consultation for worsening toothache, jaw abnormalities were detected. Radiological studies revealed bilateral mandibular radiolucent lesions, and bone biopsy confirmed histological features consistent with a brown tumor. These findings raised concerns about underlying PHPT, which was confirmed with a markedly elevated parathyroid hormone level in the presence of significant hypercalcemia. Further examination revealed impaired renal function, normal urine calcium excretion, and bilateral nephrocalcinosis. Low bone mineral density was measured with dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry, and conventional radiology identified additional low-density bony lesions in keeping with brown tumors. A parathyroid MIBI confirmed the presence of a singular parathyroid adenoma. A vague but possible family history, the patient's young age, and the severe renal and skeletal involvement prompted genetic testing. A cell division cycle 73 (CDC73) pathogenic variant, in keeping with primary hyperparathyroidism jaw tumor syndrome, was identified.© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Endocrine Society.
UBR5 is a HECT domain E3 ubiquitin ligase that is frequently amplified in breast, ovarian and prostate cancers. Heightened UBR5 expression plays a profound role in tumor growth through immune-dependent mechanisms; however, its mode of action in driving tumor metastasis has not been definitively delineated. Herein, we used a tetracycline (Tet)-inducible RNAi-mediated expression silencing cell system to investigate how UBR5 enables postsurgical mammary tumor metastatic growth in mouse lungs without the continuous influence of the primary lesion. In vitro, Ubr5 knockdown induces morphological and molecular changes characteristic of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). In vivo, UBR5 promotes lung metastasis in an E3 ubiquitin ligase-dependent manner. Moreover, doxycycline-induced UBR5 expression knockdown in metastatic cells in the lungs, following removing the primary tumors, resulted in increased apoptosis, decreased proliferation and prolonged survival, whereas silencing the expression of cell division cycle 73 (CDC73), a tumor suppressor and E3 ligase substrate of UBR5, reversed these effects. Transcriptome analyses revealed a prominent role of the p53 pathway in dovitinib-induced apoptosis of tumor cells differentially regulated by UBR5 and CDC73. In human triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) patient specimens, a strong inverse correlation was observed between UBR5 and CDC73 protein levels, with reduced CDC73 expression at metastatic sites compared to primary lesions. Furthermore, a xenograft model of human TNBC recapitulated the metastatic properties and characteristics of the unique UBR5-CDC73 functional antagonism. This study reveals the novel and critical roles and intricate relationships of UBR5, CDC73 and p53 in postsurgical breast cancer metastasis and indicates the potential of targeting this pathway in cancer therapy.© 2023 UICC.
The growing demand for animal products, combined with declining livestock production due to urbanization and climate change, underscores the need for sustainable breeding strategies. In sheep production, liveweight and weight gain until weaning are key economic traits. Selection signature analyses have previously identified the DIS3L2 gene, located on OAR2 (~233 Mbp), as a candidate under positive selection for body weight and morphology in sheep. However, its direct association with growth traits remained uninvestigated. This study explored the association between a splice region variant in the DIS3L2 gene (rs421664828) and pre-weaning growth traits in four indigenous sheep breeds in Türkiye: Central Anatolian Merino, Karayaka, Akkaraman, and Morkaraman. A total of 1862 lambs from 10 herds were genotyped using a custom TaqMan Genotyping assay. Body weights were recorded at birth and on Days 30, 60, and 90, with average daily gain (ADG) calculated until weaning. The AG genotype was the most prevalent (92.1%), and all breeds deviated from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. Association analysis revealed significant effects of rs421664828 on weight at Days 60 and 90 and on ADG-90. The AG genotype was consistently associated with higher growth performance. These findings support the use of DIS3L2-rs421664828 in marker-assisted selection to enhance growth traits in sheep.© 2026 The Author(s). Animal Genetics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Stichting International Foundation for Animal Genetics.
Prenatal alcohol exposure (PAE) has a strongly documented effect on the structure and function of brain vasculature including effects on brain microvascular endothelial cell (BMVEC) behavior, impacting appropriate angiogenesis in development. We previously demonstrated that the effects of PAE on BMVEC behavior are partially mediated by the upregulation of miR-150-5p, a negative regulator of angiogenesis. Here, we characterize transcriptional mechanisms by which alcohol exposure results in upregulated miR-150-5p in BMVECs. We provide evidence for increased transcription of the miR-150 gene with alcohol exposure; specifically, we show elevated pri-miR-150 abundance, an altered miR-150 promoter methylation landscape, and overall increased miR-150 promoter activity. The alterations to the methylation landscape prompted investigation of enzymes responsible for DNA methylation dynamics, and we show altered expression of DNA methyltransferase (Dnmt) genes and Tet methylcytosine dioxygenase 1 (Tet1). We also illuminate alterations to the activation of a wide array of transcription factors throughout the nucleus as well as altered association between transcription factors and the miR-150 promoter. Overall, we uncover a novel mechanism of gene expression dysregulation by alcohol exposure in BMVECs through differential transcription factor binding as a result of altered DNA methylation mediated primarily by elevated Tet1.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Elevation of miR-150-5p in the brain vasculature during prenatal alcohol exposure occurs partially through increased transcription. This increase in transcription is mediated by the upregulation of Tet1; the elevated TET1 protein partially demethylates the miR-150 promoter into a 5hmC-rich sequence. Consequently, transcription factor binding to the promoter sequence is altered, resulting in increased miR-150 transcription.
DIS3-like 3'-5' exoribonuclease 2 (DIS3L2), an exoribonuclease, is known to preferentially degrade uridylated RNA substrates, miRNAs, and ncRNAs. Recent reports show that DIS3L2 also plays a key role in cell proliferation and tumor growth. Mutations in DIS3L2 are associated with congenital overgrowth disorders such as Perlman syndrome, yet the developmental functions of DIS3L2 remain unknown. We report the developmental role of dis3l2 in neural crest specification, patterning, and survival in the zebrafish embryo. The dis3l2 morphants exhibited reduced expression of neural crest specifier genes coupled with extensive apoptosis in the neural tissue. Our study demonstrates that dis3l2 regulates neural tissue apoptosis and progenitor functions through the Akt-GSK3β signaling pathway. Additionally, we show that dis3l2 is essential for early mitoses in the zebrafish blastula and plays a key role in maintaining spindle length at metaphase, chromosome congression, spindle pole integrity, and cytokinesis. In summary, we identify new functions of exoribonuclease dis3l2 in cell fate specification, neural crest survival, and mitosis during embryogenesis, which form the underlying basis of DIS3L2-associated Perlman syndrome.© 2025. The Author(s).
XB130, a classical adaptor protein, exerts a critical role in diverse cellular processes. Aberrant expression of XB130 is closely associated with tumorigenesis and aggressiveness. However, the mechanisms governing its expression regulation remain poorly understood. Heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein C (hnRNPC), as an RNA-binding protein, is known to modulate multiple aspects of RNA metabolism and has been implicated in the pathogenesis of various cancers. We have previously discovered that hnRNPC is one of the candidate proteins that interact with the 3' untranslated region (3'UTR) of XB130 in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Therefore, this study aims to comprehensively elucidate how hnRNPC regulates the expression of XB130 in NSCLC.We evaluated the expression of hnRNPC in cancer and assessed the correlation between hnRNPC expression and prognosis in cancer patients using public databases. Subsequently, several stable cell lines were constructed. The proliferation, migration, invasion, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) of these cells were detected through Real-time cellular analysis, adherent colony formation, wound healing assay, invasion assay, and Western blotting. The specific regulatory manner between hnRNPC and XB130 was investigated by Real-time quantitative PCR, Western blotting, RNA pull‑down assay, dual‑luciferase reporter assay, RNA immunoprecipitation, and Co-Immunoprecipitation.We identified that hnRNPC expression is significantly elevated in NSCLC and correlates with poor prognosis in patients with lung adenocarcinoma. HnRNPC overexpression in NSCLC cells increased the expression of XB130, subsequently activating the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway and ultimately promoting cell proliferation and EMT. Additionally, overexpressing XB130 in hnRNPC-silenced cells partially restored cell proliferation and EMT. Mechanistically, hnRNPC specifically bound to the 3'UTR segments of XB130 mRNA, enhancing mRNA stability by inhibiting the recruitment of nucleases 5'-3' exoribonuclease 1 (XRN1) and DIS3-like 3'-5' exoribonuclease 2 (DIS3L2). Furthermore, hnRNPC simultaneously interacted with the eukaryotic initiation factor 4E (eIF4E), a component of the eIF4F complex, facilitating the circularization of XB130 mRNA and thereby increasing its translation efficiency.HnRNPC overexpression promotes NSCLC progression by enhancing XB130 mRNA stability and translation, suggesting that hnRNPC might be a potential therapeutic and prognostic target for NSCLC.© 2025. The Author(s).
Oxoguanine glycosylase 1 (OGG1) is widely known to repair the reactive oxygen species (ROS)-initiated DNA lesion 8-oxoguanine (8-oxoG), and more recently was shown to act as an epigenetic modifier. We have previously shown that saline-exposed Ogg1 -/- knockout progeny exhibited learning and memory deficits, which were enhanced by in utero exposure to a single low dose of ethanol (EtOH) in both Ogg1 +/+ and -/- progeny, but more so in Ogg1 -/- progeny. Herein, OGG1-deficient progeny exposed in utero to a single low dose of EtOH or its saline vehicle exhibited OGG1- and/or EtOH-dependent alterations in global histone methylation and acetylation, DNA methylation and gene expression (Tet1 (Tet Methylcytosine Dioxygenase 1), Nlgn3 (Neuroligin 3), Hdac2 (Histone Deacetylase 2), Reln (Reelin) and Esr1 (Estrogen Receptor 1)) in fetal brains, and behavioural changes in open field activity, social interaction and ultrasonic vocalization, but not prepulse inhibition. OGG1- and EtOH-dependent changes in Esr1 and Esr2 mRNA and protein levels were sex-dependent, as was the association of Esr1 gene expression with gene activation mark histone H3 lysine 4 trimethylation (H3K4me3) and gene repression mark histone H3 lysine 27 trimethylation (H3K27me3) measured via ChIP-qPCR. The OGG1-dependent changes in global epigenetic marks and gene/protein expression in fetal brains, and postnatal behavioural changes, observed in both saline- and EtOH-exposed progeny, suggest the involvement of epigenetic mechanisms in developmental disorders mediated by 8-oxoG and/or OGG1. Epigenetic effects of OGG1 may be involved in ESR1-mediated gene regulation, which may be altered by physiological and EtOH-enhanced levels of ROS formation, possibly contributing to sex-dependent developmental disorders observed in Ogg1 knockout mice. The OGG1- and EtOH-dependent associations provide a basis for more comprehensive mechanistic studies to determine the causal involvement of oxidative DNA damage and epigenetic changes in ROS-mediated neurodevelopmental disorders.
Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common type of cardiac arrhythmia. Nonetheless, the accurate diagnosis of this condition continues to pose a challenge when relying on conventional diagnostic techniques. Cell death is a key factor in the pathogenesis of AF. Existing investigations suggest that cuproptosis may also contribute to AF. This investigation aimed to identify a novel diagnostic gene signature associated with cuproptosis for AF using ensemble learning methods and discover the connection between AF and cuproptosis.Two genes connected to cuproptosis, including solute carrier family 31 member 1 (SLC31A1) and lipoic acid synthetase (LIAS), were selected by integration of random forests and eXtreme Gradient Boosting algorithms. Subsequently, a diagnostic model was constructed that includes the two genes for AF using the Light Gradient Boosting Machine (LightGBM) algorithm with good performance (the area under the curve value > 0.75). The microRNA-transcription factor-messenger RNA network revealed that homeobox A9 (HOXA9) and Tet methylcytosine dioxygenase 1 (TET1) could target SLC31A1 and LIAS in AF. Functional enrichment analysis indicated that cuproptosis might be connected to immunocyte activities. Immunocyte infiltration analysis using the CIBERSORT algorithm suggested a greater level of neutrophils in the AF group. According to the outcomes of Spearman's rank correlation analysis, there was a negative relation between SLC31A1 and resting dendritic cells and eosinophils. The study found a positive relationship between LIAS and eosinophils along with resting memory CD4+ T cells. Conversely, a negative correlation was detected between LIAS and CD8+ T cells and regulatory T cells.This study successfully constructed a cuproptosis-related diagnostic model for AF based on the LightGBM algorithm and validated its diagnostic efficacy. Cuproptosis may be regulated by HOXA9 and TET1 in AF. Cuproptosis might interact with infiltrating immunocytes in AF.© 2023. Mendelian Society of Lund and BioMed Central Ltd.
Vascular endothelial polarity induced by blood flow plays crucial roles in the development of atherosclerosis. Loss of endothelial polarity leads to an increase in permeability and leukocyte recruitment, which are crucial hallmarks of atherosclerotic initiation. Endothelial cells exhibit a morphological adaptation to hemodynamic shear stress and possesses planar cell polarity to the direction of blood flow. However, the mechanism of how hemodynamic shear stress regulates endothelial planar cell polarity has not been firmly established. Here, we found that TET1s, a short isoform of Tet methylcytosine dioxygenase 1, was a mediator in the regulation of the planar cell polarity in endothelial cells in response to hemodynamic shear stress. In the process, low expression of TET1s induced by oscillatory shear stress led to the endothelial planar polarity damage through inhibition of F-actin polymerization. TET1s can regulate demethylation level of the sFRP-1 promoter to alter the expression of sFRP-1, which affects the interaction of sFRP-1/Fzd4 and F-actin polymerization. Our study revealed the mechanism of how TET1s mediates endothelial planar cell polarity in response to hemodynamic shear stress and provides a new insight for the prevention of atherosclerosis.© 2023 Author(s).
Enhanced glucose metabolism is a feature of most tumors, but downstream functional effects of aberrant glucose flux are difficult to mechanistically determine. Metabolic diseases including obesity and diabetes have a hyperglycemia component and are correlated with elevated pre-menopausal cancer risk for triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). However, determining pathways for hyperglycemic disease-coupled cancer risk remains a major unmet need. One aspect of cellular sugar utilization is the addition of the glucose-derived protein modification O-GlcNAc (O-linked N-acetylglucosamine) via the single human enzyme that catalyzes this process, O-GlcNAc transferase (OGT). The data in this report implicate roles of OGT and O-GlcNAc within a pathway leading to cancer stem-like cell (CSC) expansion. CSCs are the minor fraction of tumor cells recognized as a source of tumors as well as fueling metastatic recurrence. The objective of this study was to identify a novel pathway for glucose-driven expansion of CSC as a potential molecular link between hyperglycemic conditions and CSC tumor risk factors.We used chemical biology tools to track how a metabolite of glucose, GlcNAc, became linked to the transcriptional regulatory protein tet-methylcytosine dioxygenase 1 (TET1) as an O-GlcNAc post-translational modification in three TNBC cell lines. Using biochemical approaches, genetic models, diet-induced obese animals, and chemical biology labeling, we evaluated the impact of hyperglycemia on CSC pathways driven by OGT in TNBC model systems.We showed that OGT levels were higher in TNBC cell lines compared to non-tumor breast cells, matching patient data. Our data identified that hyperglycemia drove O-GlcNAcylation of the protein TET1 via OGT-catalyzed activity. Suppression of pathway proteins by inhibition, RNA silencing, and overexpression confirmed a mechanism for glucose-driven CSC expansion via TET1-O-GlcNAc. Furthermore, activation of the pathway led to higher levels of OGT production via feed-forward regulation in hyperglycemic conditions. We showed that diet-induced obesity led to elevated tumor OGT expression and O-GlcNAc levels in mice compared to lean littermates, suggesting relevance of this pathway in an animal model of the hyperglycemic TNBC microenvironment.Taken together, our data revealed a mechanism whereby hyperglycemic conditions activated a CSC pathway in TNBC models. This pathway can be potentially targeted to reduce hyperglycemia-driven breast cancer risk, for instance in metabolic diseases. Because pre-menopausal TNBC risk and mortality are correlated with metabolic diseases, our results could lead to new directions including OGT inhibition for mitigating hyperglycemia as a risk factor for TNBC tumorigenesis and progression.© 2023. The Author(s).
Porphyromonas gingivalis is involved in the pathogenesis of multiple polymicrobial biofilm-induced inflammatory diseases, including apical periodontitis, and it triggers pyroptosis accompanied by robust inflammatory responses. Tet methylcytosine dioxygenase 1 (TET1), an epigenetic modifier enzyme, has been is correlated with inflammation, though an association of TET1 and P. gingivalis-related pyroptosis in cementoblasts and the molecular mechanisms has not been shown. Our study here demonstrated that P. gingivalis downregulated Tet1 expression and elicited CASP11- and GSDMD-dependent pyroptosis. Additionally, Tet1 mRNA silencing in cementoblasts appeared to result in a more severe pyroptotic phenotype, where levels of CASP11 and GSDMD cleavage, lactate dehydrogenase release, and IL-1β and IL-18 production were significantly increased. Moreover, Tet1 overexpression resulted in blockade of pyroptosis activation accompanied by inflammation moderation. Further analyses revealed that TET1 modulated glycolysis, confirmed by the application of the specific inhibitor 2-deoxy-d-glucose (2-DG). The pyroptosis phenotype enhanced by Tet1 silencing was moderated by 2-DG upon P. gingivalis invasion. Taken together, these data show the effects and underlying mechanisms of TET1 on pyroptosis and inflammatory phenotype induced by P. gingivalis in cementoblasts, and provides insight into the involvement of P. gingivalis in apical periodontitis and, possibly, other inflammatory diseases.© 2023 New York Academy of Sciences.
Endometriosis of the cervix is a rare form of genital endometriosis, which is characterized by the appearance of tissue on the vaginal part of the cervix, similar to the tissue of the mucous membrane of the uterine cavity. We describe a clinical case in which we compared the content of cytoskeletal proteins, H3 histone modifications and DNA methylation (total and 5-hydroxymethylcytosine content) in the eutopic endometrium and in tissue from endometriosis foci on the cervix. The patient had elevated levels of estradiol, interleukin-1β and interleukin-8. At the cellular level, the content of tubulin and the marker of stable microtubules were reduced in the ectopic endometrium (by 45% and 37%, p < 0.05, respectively), but the alpha-actinin-1 content was increased (by 75%, p < 0.05) with an increase in the expression of its gene. At the same time, the total level of DNA methylation in the endometriotic focus was reduced by more than 2 times with the accumulation of the intermediate product 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (the content increased by more than 3 times), probably due to an increase in the content of tet methylcytosine dioxygenase 1 (more than 4 times).
The omentum is a vascularized, immune-active tissue with regenerative potential, particularly when activated by intraperitoneal stimuli. Its secreted factors may promote lymphangiogenesis, offering a novel approach to lymphedema treatment.The omentum was activated in mice using an intraperitoneal polydextran slurry. Gene expression was evaluated over time to assess inflammatory and lymphatic markers. Culture supernatants from the activated omentum were collected, and vascular endothelial growth factor-C ( VEGF-C ) levels were measured. Therapeutic potential was tested in a mouse hindlimb lymphedema model through local application of the supernatant. Histological analysis assessed skin thickness, lymphatic vessel density, and macrophage infiltration.Activation of the omentum induced early upregulation of hypoxia-inducible factor-1 α ( HIF-1α ) and angiopoietin-2 ( Ang2 ), followed by increased expression of Forkhead Box C2 ( Foxc2 ) and Prospero homeobox-1 ( Prox1 ) by day 7, indicating lymphatic maturation. VEGF-C levels in the supernatant were significantly elevated. In the lymphedema model, treated mice exhibited reduced peak edema, faster resolution, and increased skin thickness and lymphatic vessel density compared with controls. Histological analysis revealed enhanced lymphangiogenesis and reduced macrophage infiltration. Downregulation of lymphatic vessel endothelial hyaluronan receptor 1 ( Lyve1 ) and Neuropilin-1 ( NRP1 ) suggested a predominance of tissue remodeling over structural maintenance.Activated omental tissue secretes potent bioactive factors that promote lymphangiogenesis and tissue regeneration. These findings indicate the potential of activated omentum for functional characterization and possible applications in regenerative medicine. Further investigation in chronic and clinical models is warranted to advance its translational potential.The Author(s). This is an open access article published by Thieme under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, permitting unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction so long as the original work is properly cited. ( https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ ).
Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is a leading cause of vision loss in working-age adults and often progresses to proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR) with irreversible complications. Anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) therapy remains the first-line treatment; however, resistance poses a significant challenge, necessitating alternative therapeutic targets. This study explores the role of angiopoietin-like protein 4 (ANGPTL4) in PDR pathogenesis, emphasizing vascular-immune-lymphatic interactions. We found significantly elevated ANGPTL4 and VEGF-C levels in the vitreous humor of patients with PDR, which were not affected by anti-VEGF therapy. In vivo, full-length ANGPTL4 and its C-terminal fragment promoted pathological angiogenesis and lymphatic-like remodeling in diabetic murine retinas, characterized by increased lymphatic vessel endothelial hyaluronan receptor 1, prospero homeobox 1, and VEGF receptor 3 (VEGFR3) expression. Single-cell sequencing further revealed ANGPTL4-driven immune dysregulation, with abnormal infiltration of CD4+ T cells and dendritic cells. Knockdown of ANGPTL4 in mice with oxygen-induced retinopathy alleviated retinal hypoxia, neovascularization, and vascular leakage. Mechanistically, retinal hypoxia markedly increased ANGPTL4 expression levels in the retina, which activated the activator protein-1 (AP-1) transcription factor complex and promoted Cd83 transcription in mouse heart microvascular endothelial cells. Additionally, ANGPTL4 bound to neuropilin-1 (NRP1)/VEGFR3, driving human lymphatic endothelial cell proliferation and lymphatic vessel ingrowth from the optic nerve sheath into the retina, a finding that suggests a novel pathway independent of angiopoietin-Tie signaling. These findings establish ANGPTL4 as a key mediator of immune-vascular interactions in PDR and a potential therapeutic target to address both pathological angiogenesis and lymphatic dysfunction.Some patients with proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR) have poor responses to anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (anti-VEGF) therapy. This situation highlights the need for additional therapeutic approaches. In proliferative diabetic retinopathy, what is the role of ANGPTL4 that differs from VEGF? We found that ANGPTL4 is elevated in the vitreous humor of patients with PDR who are poorly responsive to anti-VEGF therapy. ANGPTL4, particularly its C-terminal fragment, causes retinal lymphatic-like remodeling in diabetic mice. This study provides novel insights into the complex interplay between immune activation, neovascularization, and lymphatic-like remodeling in PDR. Our findings deepen our understanding of PDR pathophysiology and propose a promising therapeutic target.© 2026 by the American Diabetes Association.
Adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC) is an endocrine tumor arising in the adrenal cortex. Although its incidence is extremely low, it is highly malignant, rapidly proliferating, and infiltrating surrounding organs, resulting in a poor prognosis. YME1 Like 1 ATPase (YME1L1) is an ATP-dependent metalloprotease that regulates mitochondrial proteostasis. Recently, a correlation between YME1L1 expression and the prognosis of several cancers has been reported. However, no studies have examined the expression level of YME1L1 mRNA in ACC tissues or the relationship between YME1L1 expression and the prognosis of ACC patients. Therefore, there is a need to investigate the relationship between YME1L1 expression and the prognosis of ACC patients.YME1L1 mRNA expression and survival in ACC patients were analyzed using the TCGA database with the UALCAN and GEPIA platforms.YME1L1 mRNA expression was significantly increased in ACC tissues from stage IV patients compared with stage I, II, and III patients (p<0.0005, p<0.05, and p<0.05, respectively). Furthermore, increased YME1L1 mRNA expression was inversely correlated with survival and disease-free interval in ACC patients (p<0.01).YME1L1 is highly expressed in ACC tissues and inversely correlated with patient prognosis, suggesting its potential as a prognostic biomarker for ACC patients and providing new insights into its role in tumor biology. Further studies are needed to elucidate its therapeutic significance and mechanistic contribution to the malignant progression of ACC.Copyright © 2026 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41593798
The central nervous system (CNS) parenchyma has conventionally been believed to lack lymphatic vasculature, likely owing to a non-permissive microenvironment that hinders the formation and growth of lymphatic endothelial cells (LECs). Recent findings of ectopic expression of LEC markers including prospero homeobox 1 (PROX1), a master regulator of lymphatic differentiation, and the vascular permeability marker plasmalemma vesicle-associated protein (PLVAP) in certain glioblastomas (GBM) and brain arteriovenous malformations have prompted investigation into their roles in cerebrovascular malformations, tumor environments, and blood-brain barrier (BBB) abnormalities. To explore the relationship between ectopic LEC properties and BBB disruption, we used endothelial cell-specific Prox1 overexpression mutants. When induced during embryonic stages of BBB formation, endothelial Prox1 expression induces hybrid blood-lymphatic phenotypes in the developing CNS vasculature. This effect is not observed when Prox1 is overexpressed during postnatal BBB maturation. Ectopic Prox1 expression leads to significant vascular malformations and enhanced vascular leakage, resulting in BBB disruption when induced during both embryonic and postnatal stages. Mechanistically, PROX1 downregulates critical BBB-associated genes, including β-catenin and claudin-5, which are essential for BBB development and maintenance. These findings suggest that PROX1 compromises BBB integrity by negatively regulating BBB-associated gene expression and Wnt/β-catenin signaling.
Background/Objectives: PROX1 (prospero homeobox 1) is a transcription factor involved in lymphangiogenesis and cellular differentiation. Its role in cancer biology appears to be highly context-dependent, with it exhibiting both tumor-promoting and -suppressive functions across various malignancies. Nonetheless, the clinical significance of PROX1 expression in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) remains poorly elucidated. The objective of this study is to evaluate the immunohistochemical expression of PROX1 in NSCLC, specifically in the adenocarcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma subtypes, and to assess its correlation with clinicopathologic features and overall survival (OS). Methods: This retrospective study included surgically resected specimens from 121 patients with histologically confirmed NSCLC. PROX1 expression was assessed via immunohistochemistry on formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded specimens. Staining intensity (graded 0- National and Kapodistrian University of Athens 3) and the percentage of positive tumor cells were recorded. Correlations with histological subtype, tumor characteristics, and OS were analyzed using chi-square tests, one-way ANOVA, and Kaplan-Meier survival analysis with log-rank testing. Results: Low PROX1 intensity (level 1) was significantly associated with P63 positivity (p = 0.028), while high PROX1 intensity (level 3) correlated with nodal metastasis to station 3 (S3+) (p = 0.025). Additionally, alveolar-pattern adenocarcinomas exhibited intermediate PROX1 expression (26-50%) (p = 0.010). Although PROX1 positivity did not differ among mucinous and non-mucinous adenocarcinomas (p = 0.152), its distribution across defined expression subgroups was statistically significant (p = 0.002). Tumors with low PROX1 expression (0-24%) were associated with a larger maximum tumor diameter (p = 0.026). PROX1 expression was not independently associated with OS (p > 0.05). Factors significantly associated with improved survival included an age < 50 years, female sex, the absence of necrosis, fewer than 10 positive lymph nodes, a lymph node ratio < 0.5, and the absence of extensive nodal involvement in stations 5, 10, 11, and 12. Conclusions: Although PROX1 expression is variably associated with specific histologic subtypes and nodal metastases in NSCLC, it does not independently predict overall survival. Its expression patterns suggest a potential role in tumor differentiation and lymphatic spread. Further mechanistic and immunologic studies are warranted to elucidate the functional significance of PROX1 in lung cancer biology.
Histologic transformation of prostate cancer from adenocarcinoma to neuroendocrine prostate cancer (NEPC) is associated with aggressive disease and poor prognosis. This lineage transition is accompanied by polycomb complex 2-mediated epigenetic derepression of cell fate-determining transcription factors, including prospero homeobox 1 (PROX1). In this study, we sought to functionally characterize the role of PROX1 in NEPC. An unbiased CRISPR screen in two NEPC patient-derived organoid models demonstrated high cellular dependency for PROX1. Knockout of PROX1 impeded tumor growth in NEPC models, and overexpression of PROX1 promoted tumor growth and spontaneous metastasis in prostate adenocarcinoma. Transcriptomic and cistromic analyses across castration-resistant adenocarcinoma and neuroendocrine models pointed to PROX1-mediated regulation of neuroendocrine-lineage transcriptional programs. Immunoprecipitation followed by mass spectrometry identified three phosphorylated sites in the DNA-binding domain of PROX1 that are critical for its stability and function. CHEK1 and CDK2 were predicted to be upstream kinases that phosphorylate PROX1, and treatment with a CHEK1 or CDK2 inhibitor reduced NEPC viability. Together, these results substantiate the role of PROX1 in NEPC and identify PROX1 phosphorylation in the DNA-binding domain, which might represent a therapeutic target in NEPC.PROX1 mediates lineage reprogramming, tumor growth, and metastasis in neuroendocrine prostate cancer and represents a cellular dependency that can be exploited for targeted treatment strategies.©2025 American Association for Cancer Research.
The current study aimed to investigate the prognostic relevance of PROX1, and MTA1 in salivary gland carcinomas.In a retrospective study on 45 cases diagnosed with salivary gland carcinoma, PROX1 and MTA1 immunoexpressions were assessed concerning the different clinicopathologic parameters, disease-free (DFS), and overall survivals (OS). Pearson's Chi-square test, One-way ANOVA, and Post Hoc tests were used to estimate the difference between groups. The Kaplan-Meier method was used to record DFS and OS, and the log-rank test was used to analyze the data. With Cox regression, univariate and multivariate survival analyses were run. A P-value of 0.05 or less was regarded as statistically significant.Positive PROX1 and high MTA1 expressions were significantly associated with large tumor sizes (T3 & T4), presence of nodal and distant metastasis, advanced TNM clinical stage (III + IV), and presence of tumor recurrence (P values were ≤ 0.05). Moreover, positive PROX1, and high MTA1 expressions were significantly associated with poor DFS and OS in the univariate models. Additionally, DFS and OS were significantly reduced in relation to large sized tumors (T3 + T4), positive nodal involvement, positive distant metastasis, advanced TNM clinical stage (III + IV), high-grade carcinomas, presence of LV invasion, and old ages (P values were ≤ 0.05). The multivariate analysis with Cox regression found that distant metastasis was the independent predictor for DFS, but not for OS in SGC patients.PROX1 and MTA1 immunoexpression could be used as predictors of progression and recurrence in SGC patients. PROX1 and MTA1 are potentially prognostic, predictive biomarkers, and promising molecular therapeutic targets in SGC patients. Trial registration Retrospectively registered.© 2025. The Author(s).
For patients with prostate cancer (PCa), pelvic lymph node (LN) metastasis remains a major poor prognostic factor associated with cancer-specific mortality. VEGF-C is a major lymphangiogenic ligand that plays a vital role in LN metastasis in PCa. However, in some PCa caseswith LN metastasis,VEGF-C is not upregulated, indicating that some VEGF-C-independent mechanisms are essential for lymphangiogenesis.Herein, we confirmed that extracellular vesicles (EVs) derived from PCa cells could promote LN metastasis in PCa independent of VEGF-C. We identified an EV circular RNA, circPDLIM5, that could promote lymphangiogenesis and lymphatic metastasis in both PCa cell lines and mouse models. Mechanistically, the packaging of circPDLIM5 into EVs was regulated by heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein A2B1. Subsequently, EVs were transmitted to human lymphatic endothelial cells, and EVs carrying circPDLIM5 could then directly interact with the transcription factor Yin Yang 1 to enhance the expression of Prospero homeobox 1, which is crucial for the formation, differentiation, and maturation of lymphatic vessels. Our findingshighlight the importance of a molecular mechanism mediated by EVs carrying circPDLIM5that is involved in lymphangiogenesis and LN metastasis in PCa; as a result, EVscarrying circPDLIM5 may be an attractive therapeutic target for LN-metastatic PCa.© 2025. The Author(s).
Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) are genetic risk factors for type 2 diabetes (T2D). SNPs of the cryptochrome circadian regulator 2 (CRY2), hepatocyte nuclear factor 1α, prospero homeobox 1 and glucose-6-phosphatase catalytic subunit (G6PC2) genes are associated with T2D. To the best of our knowledge, however, the association is unclear in African patients and the burden of T2D is growing rapidly in Africa. The present study aimed to investigate SNPs of cryptochrome circadian regulator 2 (CRY2), hepatocyte nuclear factor 1α, prospero homeobox 1 and glucose-6-phosphatase catalytic subunit (G6PC2) genes in T2D in a South African population. The study included 310 participants with T2D and 310 healthy controls. Demographic and lifestyle characteristics were self-reported, while anthropometric and biochemical measurements were determined using standard methods. Plasma glucose and insulin were measured by enzymatic hexokinase method and paramagnetic particle chemiluminescence assay, respectively. Highly sensitive c-reactive protein (hs-CRP) was measured by ELISA. iPLEX SNP genotyping was used for SNP analysis and results were confirmed by Sanger sequencing. Insulin resistance measured using the homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) formula was significantly higher in carriers of the recessive rs11605924 (P=0.049), fasting plasma glucose was significantly lower in carriers of the recessive rs560887 (P=0.015) and highly sensitive c-reactive protein levels were significantly lower in carriers of the recessive rs1169288 (P=0.018). The risk of T2D was significantly higher in participants with the recessive rs560887 [odds ratio (OR)=1.58, 95% CI, 1.02-2.44, P=0.041) and rs11605924 (OR=1.82, 95% CI, 1.03-3.23, P=0.041) compared with the dominant alleles. CRY2 and G6PC2 SNPs were associated with an increased risk of T2D and may partly contribute to high prevalence of T2D in the mixed ancestry South African population. Further studies are warranted to validate these findings in other African populations and explore downstream pathways.Copyright: © 2025 Ndonwi et al.
Objective: To investigate the molecular mechanism of long intergenic non-protein coding RNA, regulator of reprogramming (Linc-ROR) in regulating the stemness of cancer stem cells in hypoxic microenvironment. Methods: A2780 cells were induced into ovarian cancer stem-like cells (OCS-LC) by sphere formation assay and identified by differentiation assay and flow cytometry analysis. Knockdown or overexpression of Linc-ROR, microRNA (miR)-181c-5p, and simultaneous knockdown or simultaneous overexpression of Linc-ROR and miR-181c-5p were constructed in OCS-LC cell lines. The mRNA levels were detected by quantitative reverse transcription PCR (RT-qPCR). Western blot was used to detect the stemness related octamer-binding transcription factor 4 (Oct-4) and Nanog homeobox transcription factor (Nanog). The protein expression levels of E-cadherin, Vimentin related to epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and hypoxia inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α) were also detected. Cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8), colony formation assay and transwell chamber assay were used to detect the effects of different factors on cell proliferation, invasion and other malignant biological behaviors. A subcutaneous xenograft model was constructed to explore the effect of Linc-ROR on the tumorigenicity of OCS-LC in vivo. Results: A2780 cells were successfully induced into OCS-LC. Flow cytometry analysis showed that the positive expression rate of CD133 on the surface of OCS-LC was significantly higher than that of A2780 cells (P<0.05). The results of dual luciferase reporter assay showed that there was a targeted binding site between Linc-ROR and miR-181c-5p. Under hypoxic condition, overexpression of Linc-ROR or knockdown of miR-181c-5p increased OCS-LC spheroid formation rate, shortened spheroid formation cycle, longer maximum spheroid diameter, and increased relative expression of Oct-4, Nanog, HIF-1α and Vimentin proteins compared with control group; the relative expression of E-cadherin protein was decreased, and the proliferation, invasion and metastasis ability of OCS-LC were enhanced (all P<0.05). However, knockdown of Linc-ROR or overexpression of miR-181c-5p showed opposite experimental results (all P<0.05). Simultaneous knocking down of Linc-ROR and miR-181c-5p or simultaneous overexpressing of Linc-ROR and miR-181c-5p could reverse the above biological effects of knocking down or overexpressing Linc-ROR. The results of animal experiments showed that overexpression of Linc-ROR enhanced the tumorigenic ability of OCS-LC in vivo. At the same time, the expression levels of Nanog, Oct-4, HIF-1α and Vimentin were increased, and the expression level of E-cadherin was decreased in transplanted tumor tissues (all P<0.05). Knockdown of Linc-ROR showed the opposite results (all P<0.05). Conclusion: Under hypoxia, Linc-ROR negatively regulates the expression of miR-181c-5p and upregulates the expression of HIF-1α to promote the stemness of OCS-LC and activate EMT, which may be one of the important mechanisms of Linc-ROR promoting the proliferation, invasion and metastasis of tumor cells.
Osteosarcoma is a primary malignant bone tumor with high incidence in adolescents. Its characteristics of high recurrence, high metastasis, and cancer stem cell (CSC)-mediated treatment resistance are major obstacles to improving patient prognosis. This study aimed to systematically investigate the role and molecular mechanism of FK506-binding protein 10 (FKBP10) in regulating osteosarcoma stemness and malignant progression. Clinical sample analysis showed that High expression of FKBP10 is negatively correlated with prognosis in osteosarcoma, and positively correlated with the expression of stemness markers SOX2 (SRY-box transcription factor 2) and Nanog (Homeobox transcription factor Nanog). Cellular experiments confirmed that FKBP10 dose-dependently upregulated the transcriptional and protein levels of stemness markers such as CD44 (CD44 molecule), CD105 (Endoglin), SOX2, and Nanog, expanded the populations of CD105+ and CD44+ stem cells, and enhanced the self-renewal (tumor sphere formation), clonogenic proliferation (colony formation), and invasion/migration abilities of osteosarcoma cells. Conversely, FKBP10 knockdown significantly inhibited these stemness characteristics and malignant phenotypes without affecting the proliferative activity of general tumor cells. Animal experiments demonstrated that FKBP10 knockdown remarkably reduced the volume of xenograft tumors in nude mice, decreased the frequency of CD105+ CSCs, and prolonged the survival time of tumor-bearing mice. At the molecular level, immunofluorescence staining and co-immunoprecipitation experiments confirmed that FKBP10 and heat shock protein 10 (HSP10) exhibited subcellular co-localization and direct interaction in osteosarcoma cells, with no mutual regulation of protein expression between FKBP10 and HSP10. HSP10 knockdown mimicked the effect of FKBP10 knockdown to inhibit osteosarcoma stemness. RNA sequencing and functional validation revealed that FKBP10 and HSP10 jointly regulated the expression of stemness markers and malignant phenotypes by activating the TGF-β/Smad pathway, and the regulatory effect of FKBP10 was completely dependent on this pathway. In addition, although HSP10 was involved in stemness regulation, it had no significant association with patient prognosis. This study is the first to clarify the core role of the "FKBP10-HSP10-TGF-β (Transforming growth factor-beta)/Smad (Sma- and Mad-related protein)" regulatory axis in maintaining osteosarcoma stemness, confirming that FKBP10 is a potential biomarker for osteosarcoma prognosis and a key target for targeted therapy. It provides a new theoretical basis and experimental foundation for the development of precision treatment strategies targeting CSCs in osteosarcoma.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Age-related osteoarthritis (OA) involves metabolic dysregulation and chondrocyte senescence. This study examined the nonmetabolic role of enolase 2 (ENO2) in OA pathogenesis and its therapeutic potential.Human aged and OA cartilage (n = 3 per group) underwent 18F-FDG positron emission tomography (PET)-computed tomography (CT) imaging, proteomic profiling, and immunohistochemistry. In vitro chondrocyte senescence models were generated by inducing doxorubicin-induced stress and serial passaging. Protein-protein interactions (ENO2-GNL3-MDM2) were validated by co-immunoprecipitation (IP), GST pull-down, and site-directed mutagenesis (E4A-ENO2 and K5R-GNL3 mutants). Lactylation was assessed using lactylomics and immunoprecipitation. The therapeutic effect of the ENO2-specific inhibitor POMHEX was evaluated in C57BL/6 J mice (n = 6 per group) via intra-articular injection for 16 weeks. Outcomes included histology, micro-CT, pain behavior, and gait analysis.Proteomics revealed ENO2 upregulation in aged human cartilage. In vitro, ENO2 overexpression promoted extracellular matrix catabolism, senescence, and glycolysis, whereas ENO2 knockdown attenuated these processes. Mediated by its Glu-4 residue, nuclear ENO2 bound GNL3 lactylated at Lys-5. This interaction displaced MDM2 from GNL3, resulting in MDM2 destabilization, impaired ubiquitination, p53 accumulation, and persistent senescence. Moreover, p53 transcriptionally activated ENO2, establishing a pathological positive feedback loop. Pharmacological inhibition of ENO2 with POMHEX disrupted ENO2-GNL3 binding, restored p53 degradation, reduced senescence markers in vitro, and mitigated cartilage degradation, subchondral bone sclerosis, and pain in aged mice.ENO2 promotes OA progression through a lactate-dependent, lactylation-mediated disruption of the GNL3-MDM2-p53 axis, leading to a senescent feedback loop. Targeting ENO2 may represent a novel disease-modifying therapeutic approach for age-related OA.© 2026. The Author(s).
Embryonic stem cells (ESCs) derived from the inner cell mass of embryos possess unlimited self-renewal and pluripotency, offering a powerful system to study early development and enable genetic and biotechnological innovation. Although several livestock ESC lines have been reported in recent years, defining culture conditions that support stable, long-term self-renewal and controlled transitions across pluripotent states remains challenging. Here, we report the de novo derivation of sheep (ovine) ESCs (oESCs) from in vivo blastocysts using a chemically defined culture system. The derived cells exhibit morphological and molecular features of primed pluripotency and can be propagated under both feeder-dependent and feeder-free conditions without loss of identity or karyotypic stability. Building on this foundation, we developed enhancer-driven reporter lines that faithfully reflect octamer-binding transcription factor 4 (OCT4) and SRY-box transcription factor 2 (SOX2) transcriptional activity, enabling dynamic visualization of pluripotency and differentiation in live cultures. These reporter systems revealed the responsiveness of oESCs to signaling modulation and provided a functional readout of pluripotency state transitions. When cultured in defined media previously shown to stabilize naïve pluripotency in human ESCs, oESCs adopted a dome-shaped colony morphology, maintained OCT4, SOX2, and Nanog homeobox (NANOG) expression, retained differentiation potential, and exhibited a transcriptomic profile consistent with resetting to an intermediate pluripotent state with naïve-like morphological features. In summary, these findings establish stable ovine ESC lines and demonstrate their plasticity across the pluripotency spectrum, providing a valuable platform for investigating ruminant stem cell biology and advancing livestock biotechnology.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for the Study of Reproduction. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Pancreatic cancer (PC), a malignant neoplasm of the gastrointestinal tract, is linked to dismal prognoses and a restricted response to chemotherapy. Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) play critical roles in regulating PC stemness. This study investigated the mechanism of cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs)-derived lncRNA nuclear paraspeckle assembly transcript 1 (NEAT1) promoting PC cell stemness via the microRNA-101-3p (miR-101-3p)/lysine demethylase 3A (KDM3A) axis. Human pancreatic CAFs were cultured in vitro and transfected with small interfering (si)-NEAT1. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) were isolated from CAFs using ultracentrifugation and identified using transmission electron microscopy, nanoparticle tracking analysis, and western blot. Human PC cells PANC-1 were treated with miR-101-3p mimic, si-KDM3A, and EVs. Expression of NEAT1, miR-101-3p, KDM3A, achaete-scute family BHLH transcription factor 2 (ASCL2), leucine-rich repeat-containing G-protein coupled receptor 5 (LGR5), octamer-binding transcription factor 4 (Oct4), and SRY-box transcription factor 2 (SOX2), CD44+CD133+ cell count, and cell malignant biological behaviors were assessed. miR-101-3p-KDM3A targeted binding sites were predicted by StarBase database, with the targeted relationship verified by the dual-luciferase reporter assay. After CAFs-derived EVs (CAFs-EVs) treatment, PANC-1 cells exhibited increased NEAT1, ASCL2, LGR5, Oct4, and SOX2 expression, cell malignant biological behaviors and stemness ability, and CD44+CD133+ cell count. CAFs-EVs-delivered NEAT1 potentiated PANC-1 cell stemness by downregulating miR-101-3p. NEAT1 upregulated KDM3A expression by inhibiting miR-101-3p. KDM3A knockdown partly reversed CAFs-EVs-carried NEAT1-promoted PANC-1 cell stemness. CAFs-EVs-shuttled NEAT1 encouraged PANC-1 cell stemness via the miR-101-3p/KDM3A axis. CAFs-EVs might carry lncRNA NEAT1 to inhibit miR-101-3p expression, thereby regulating KDM3A and eventually facilitating PC cell stemness.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Cancer stemness is a critical determinant of tumor progression and poor prognosis in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), however, the mechanisms by how long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) regulate stemness-associated signaling pathways remain incompletely understood. Here, we identify long-intergenic non-coding RNA for kinase activation (LINK-A) as a key regulator of NSCLC stemness that is markedly upregulated in tumor tissues and serum. Functional analyses demonstrate that LINK-A enhances cancer stem-like properties and accelerates tumor growth in vivo. Mechanistically, LINK-A predominantly localizes to the cytoplasm, where it binds to the RNA-binding protein heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein K (hnRNPK) and promotes its cytoplasmic retention. Cytoplasmic hnRNPK associates with beta-catenin (β-catenin) and the deubiquitinase ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase 9× (USP9X), preventing β-catenin ubiquitination and subsequently enhancing Wnt/β-catenin signaling. This activation induces the transcription of Nanog homeobox (NANOG) and POU class 5 homeobox 1 (POU5F1/OCT4), thereby sustaining NSCLC stemness. Collectively, these findings identify a previously unrecognized LINK-A/hnRNPK/USP9X/β-catenin signaling axis and highlight LINK-A as a potential biomarker and therapeutic target for NSCLC.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41782786 is a review article
Androgen receptor (AR) signaling is a primary oncogenic driver of castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC), yet the mechanism remains incompletely understood. Through proteomic profiling of CRPC and primary PCa cells, we identify G Protein Nucleolar 3 (GNL3) as a novel AR coregulator. GNL3 physically interacts with AR, enhances its chromatin occupancy, and directly coactivates transcriptional programs that promote cell proliferation, including NEK2 and CDC20. Concurrently, GNL3 functions as a corepressor of immune-responsive genes such as CXCL10 and TAP1 via class I histone deacetylases (HDACs), thereby facilitating CD8+ T cell elimination and establishing an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment. GNL3 expression and AR-GNL3 complex formation progressively increase from normal prostate to CRPC and correlate with poor clinical outcomes. Functionally, GNL3 knockdown sensitizes CRPC cells to AR antagonists and impairs tumor growth and metastasis. Furthermore, we demonstrate that combinatorial inhibition of NEK2, class I HDACs, and AR signaling can be a potential therapeutic strategy for CRPC. Overall, these findings establish GNL3 as a dual-function AR coregulator and therapeutic target, providing mechanistic insights into transcriptional regulation and immune evasion in advanced PCa.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
The liver is a common primary cancer site in humans. Actin-related protein 6 (ACTR6) plays a key role in liver cancer. The aim of this study was to further explore the regulatory molecular mechanism of ACTR6 in liver cancer.In this study, hepatoma cell HuH-7 was evaluated by 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine staining, colony formation, Transwell assay, and wound healing assay. The possible mechanism of the action of ACTR6 on hepatocellular carcinoma cells was evaluated by analyzing sphere formation, the key factors of the Hedgehog (Hh) signaling pathway, and molecules related to cell stemness. Then, xenografted mouse tumor models were used to demonstrate the promotion effect of ACTR6 on liver cancer in vivo.ACTR6 was highly expressed in HuH-7h and HepG2 cells (P < 0.001). Silencing ACTR6 inhibited the migration, invasion capacity, and activity of HuH-7 (P < 0.01). ACTR6 activated the Hh signaling pathway by upregulating the expression of Sonic Hedgehog, patched 1, smoothened, and glioma-associated transcription factor 1. In addition, ACTR6 increased the molecular level of cell stemness by increasing the level of cellular myelocytomatosis oncogene, octamer-binding transcription factor 4, Nanog homeobox, and SRY-box transcription factor 2. Vismodegib reversed the promoting effect of ACTR6 on the Hh signaling pathway and stem-related proteins in cells.ACTR6 regulates the molecular basis of stemness maintenance of liver cancer cells through the Hh signaling pathway and promotes the occurrence of liver cancer. This study provides possible targets for the clinical treatment of liver cancer.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by Scientific Scholar.
Peptidyl arginine deiminase 4 (PAD4) is previously known for its role in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) through its facilitation of neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) by citrullinating histones. However, the specific citrullinated substrates have not been fully elucidated, especially non-histones. By performing citrullination mapping, we unraveled the involvement of cathepsin H (CTSH), a novel substrate of PAD4, which undergoes citrullination at the R315 site. Then the citrullination of CTSH obviously altered its molecular conformation and subsequently reduced its enzymatic activity, which significantly boosted the formation of NETs. Consistently, CTSH knockout mice demonstrated exacerbated colonic inflammation and higher levels of NETs, which might be achieved by activating the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/protein kinase B (PI3K-Akt) signaling pathway. These findings underscore the critical role of CTSH in IBD pathogenesis and position it as a potential therapeutic target, highlighting the complex interplay among PAD4, CTSH, and IBD.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Objectives: Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is an aggressive head and neck malignancy in which post-treatment recurrence and distant metastasis remain major contributors to poor clinical outcomes. Although microRNAs are important post-transcriptional regulators of tumor progression, the role of miR-320d in NPC remains incompletely understood. This study evaluated the biological role of miR-320d and explored whether it is involved in regulating neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) formation through the nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB)/interleukin-8 (IL-8) signaling axis. Methods: miR-320d was overexpressed in NPC cell lines S18 and 5-8F, and cell viability, migration, and invasion were evaluated. Integrated transcriptomic and proteomic analyses were performed to identify miR-320d-regulated genes, proteins, and pathways. Western blotting, immunohistochemistry, and immunofluorescence analyses were used to validate NET-associated proteins, including glycoprotein Ib platelet subunit alpha (GP1BA), histone deacetylase 10 (HDAC10), and fibrinogen gamma chain (FGG), as well as the expression of NET formation markers, including peptidyl arginine deiminase 4 (PADI4), myeloperoxidase (MPO), and neutrophil elastase (NE); and key components of the NF-κB/IL-8 axis. Results: miR-320d overexpression significantly inhibited the viability, migration, and invasion of both S18 and 5-8F cells. Multi-omics analyses indicated that miR-320d-regulated molecules were mainly enriched in NET-related pathways. Consistently, miR-320d reduced the expression of GP1BA, HDAC10, FGG, PADI4, MPO, and NE. Mechanistically, miR-320d suppressed NF-κB signaling, as shown by decreased phosphorylated NF-κB (p-NF-κB) and total NF-κB levels, and reduced IL-8 secretion in NPC cells. Conclusion: miR-320d may suppress NPC progression, at least in part, by attenuating NF-κB/IL-8-associated NET formation. These findings suggest that the miR-320d/NF-κB/IL-8/NET regulatory axis may participate in NPC progression and may warrant further translational investigation.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Tech Science Press.
The pathogenesis of skin photodamage remains incompletely elucidated. Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) have been implicated in exacerbating skin photodamage. However, their precise mechanism requires further investigation. We detected NETs via immunofluorescence in skin tissues from patients with Actinic Dermatosis. In vivo, an acute photodamage mouse model was established by using UVB irradiation. Mice were treated with GSK484 (PAD4 inhibitor) and subjected to RNA-sequencing to explore the mechanism by which NETs promote inflammation and apoptosis. NETs content, malondialdehyde (MDA) levels, and superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity were assessed. In vitro, immortalized keratinocytes (HaCaT cells) were treated with NETs. Subsequently, cell viability, reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels, inflammatory cytokine release, apoptosis, SOD production, and MDA levels were measured. 25-pass transmembrane protein (CCDC25) was knocked down to validate its role as a critical receptor for NETs in HaCaT cells. As a result, abundant NETs were present in the skin of Actinic Dermatosis patients. Injection of GSK484 significantly alleviated UVB-induced skin damage, inflammation, and cell apoptosis in the mouse model. RNA-sequencing analysis revealed that peptidyl-arginine deiminase 4 (PAD4) deficiency inhibited UVB-induced mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) activation. NETs treatment induced HaCaT cell apoptosis, suppressed cell viability, promoted inflammatory cytokine release, and disrupted redox homeostasis. NETs stimulation increased phospho-Jun-N-terminal kinase (p-JNK) activity. However, this activity was suppressed and cellular status was restored following CCDC25 knockdown. Collectively, NETs exacerbate skin photodamage by activating the p-JNK/JNK pathway via CCDC25, leading to HaCaT cell apoptosis, inhibition of cell viability, and the release of inflammatory cytokines.© 2026 The Author(s). Aging Cell published by Anatomical Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42449604 is a review article
Preeclampsia (PE) is a serious pregnancy disorder, but its pathogenesis has not been well elucidated and has no effective pharmacological therapy. Here we investigated the potential protective effect of GSK484, a selective inhibitor of peptidyl arginine deiminase 4 (PAD4), on PE in rats and the underlying mechanisms. PE was induced in pregnant rats by intravenous injection of low-dose lipopolysaccharides (LPS), and the general manifestations of PE were examined. The effects of GSK484 on placental expressions of PAD4 and vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA), formation of neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs), placental neutrophil infiltration, and endothelial and microvasculature injury were measured using serial technologies including histology, ELISA, RT-qPCR, western blotting, immunofluorescent and immunohistochemical staining. Results show that LPS-treated pregnant rats exhibited PE-like symptoms and molecular pathologies, including late-onset hypertension, proteinuria, placental microvasculature and kidney injuries, growth restriction of the offspring, elevations of placental and circulatory PAD4, and formation of NETs which were composed of double-stranded DNA (dsDNA), myeloperoxidase (MPO) and citrullinated histone 3 (Cit H3) released from activated neutrophils. Administration of GSK484 (a PAD4 inhibitor) (2 mg/kg, i. p.) to pregnant rats reduced circulatory soluble fms-like tyrosine kinase 1 (sFlt-1), placental PAD4 expression and NETs formation, increased placental VEGFA expression and microvessel density (MVD), decreased blood pressure and urine proteins, and improved maternal body weight gain and offspring growth restriction. We conclude that GSK484 exerts a protective effect on rat PE mainly via inhibiting PAD4-mediated placental NETs formation, and ultimately improves maternal placental microvascular injury and benefits the pregnancy outcomes including mother and offspring. The study suggests that GSK484 may have the potential to be an effective drug in the treatment of PE.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Post-influenza bacterial infection is associated with higher severity and mortality rates. Qingfei Paidu decoction (QFPDD) has demonstrated efficacy as an anti-inflammatory therapeutic agent specifically for influenza. However, its role in bacterial secondary infection remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the protective effects and underlying mechanisms of QFPDD in a mouse model of post-influenza bacterial infection.A mouse model of post-influenza bacterial infection was established to evaluate the therapeutic effects of QFPDD. QFPDD was administered prior to the full establishment of secondary bacterial infection. Body weight, body temperature, lung indexes and pulmonary bacterial load were evaluated by lung weighing and colony counting of lung tissue homogenates. Single-cell ribonucleic acid sequencing (scRNA-seq) was performed to characterize immune cell populations and cytokine expression levels in lung tissues. Neutrophil activation, neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) formation and coagulation-related markers were examined using molecular and biochemical approaches. In vitro, pam3cys-ser-lys4 (Pam3CSK4)-stimulated macrophages were used to assess cytokine production, while the expression of phagocytic receptors was evaluated in macrophages and neutrophils following Pam3CSK4 or heat-killed Staphylococcus aureus stimulation. In addition, phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA)-stimulated neutrophils were utilized to assess the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and the activation of signaling pathways.QFPDD prevented body weight loss, reduced lung indexes, decreased lung bacterial load and alleviated hypothermia in secondary infected mice. ScRNA-seq analysis revealed decreased cytokine scores in the lungs following QFPDD treatment, with neutrophils exhibiting the highest cytokine scores among the 18 identified cell populations. QFPDD downregulated inflammatory mediators in neutrophils. Furthermore, QFPDD reduced the expression of xanthine oxidase, myeloperoxidase, citrullinated histone H3, and peptidyl arginine deiminase 4, accompanied by decreased S100 calcium-binding protein A8 and S100 calcium-binding protein A9 levels, suggesting that QFPDD can be associated with the reduced formation of NETs. QFPDD also decreased platelet activation and hypercoagulation markers. In vitro, QFPDD inhibited cytokine and chemokine production in macrophages and suppressed ROS generation and extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase phosphorylation in neutrophils. In addition, QFPDD significantly enhanced the expression of phagocytic receptors in macrophages and neutrophils.QFPDD confers protection against post-influenza bacterial infection by inhibiting the formation of NETs and cytokine storm, highlighting its potential as a candidate for further investigation in the prevention and treatment of this condition. Please cite this article as: Mu JW, Cheng T, Hu L, Lei B, Ma YH, Cui Y, Peng YC, Huang WB, Ge YW, Ho LP, Zheng YJ. Qingfei Paidu decoction, a compound Chinese herbal medicine, protects against post-influenza bacterial infection by inhibiting the formation of neutrophil extracellular traps and cytokine storm. J Integr Med. 2026; Epub ahead of print.Copyright © 2026 Shanghai Yueyang Hospital Affiliated to Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese Medicine. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Peptidyl arginine deiminase 4 (PAD4) catalyzes the deamination of arginine residues to citrulline, a post-translational modification known as citrullination, which regulates protein structure, function, and localization. Despite growing evidence connects PAD4 to cancer progression, its role in intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (ICC) remains largely unexplored.This study aimed to elucidate the role and underlying mechanisms of PAD4 in the regulation of intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma proliferation, as well as to explore its clinical relevance and therapeutic potential.Hydrodynamic tail vein injection (HTVI) and subcutaneous xenograft models were used to evaluate the role of PAD4 in vivo. In vitro functional assays were performed to assess the effects of PAD4 on ICC cell proliferation. Putative targets were identified by RNA-seq and Co-IP/MS analyses. Molecular interactions were examined using GST pull-down, surface plasmon resonance (SPR), and RNA immunoprecipitation-PCR. The clinical relevance of PAD4 was evaluated in ICC patient samples using immunohistochemical analysis.PAD4 was identified as a key promoter of ICC proliferation by enhancing post-transcriptional expression of the MCM complex. Mechanistically, PAD catalytic domain of PAD4 interacted with the KH1 domain of IGF2BP2 and catalyzed its citrullination at R597, which markedly increased the affinity of IGF2BP2 for m6A-modified MCM2-7 transcripts, thereby stabilizing and elevating MCM mRNAs expression. Clinically, high PAD4 expression correlated with poor prognosis in ICC patients, while PAD4 and IGF2BP2 co-expression predicted worse outcomes. In vivo, combined inhibition of PAD4 and IGF2BP2 synergistically suppressed ICC growth.Our findings identify a tumor-intrinsic PAD4-IGF2BP2 axis that drives ICC progression through citrullination-dependent stabilization of MCM transcripts. Dual targeting of PAD4 and IGF2BP2 represents a promising therapeutic strategy for ICC.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Neutrophils are short-lived, yet critical components of the innate immune system. These cells play crucial roles in host defense and inflammation. Their high turnover during inflammatory responses is often accompanied by inflammatory lytic cell death, such as NETosis and pyroptosis, which can amplify tissue damage. Thus, targeting neutrophil death pathways is an emerging therapeutic area. Withania somnifera (L.) Dunal (WS), a key Ayurvedic herb, shows immunomodulatory properties, but its effects on neutrophils remain underexplored. In this study, we investigated the impact of WS extracts and their major constituents, including withanolide A (WL), withanoside IV (WT), withanone (WO), and withaferin A (WFA), on the mechanisms of neutrophil death. Our findings reveal that WS extracts significantly attenuate interleukin-1β (IL-1β) release and pyroptotic cell death, with the alcoholic extract exhibiting greater efficacy than hydro-alcoholic and aqueous preparations. These effects are linked to the inhibition of NLRP3 inflammasome activation and caspase-1 signaling. Moreover, the alcoholic extract of WS suppressed phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA)-induced NET formation, but did not affect ionomycin-induced NETosis. This selective inhibition was associated with a reduction in reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation, but had no effect on peptidyl arginine deiminase 4 (PAD4) activity. The WS alcoholic extract also conferred protection against neutrophil apoptosis, as evidenced by the downregulation of executioner caspase-7. Further analysis specified that WFA was primarily responsible for these effects. Together, these results provide novel insights into the role of WS and WFA in modulating neutrophil death pathways. These findings further highlighted the therapeutic potential of WS in inflammatory and neutrophil-mediated pathological conditions.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Society for Leukocyte Biology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Perfluorooctane sulfonic acid (PFOS), a ubiquitous and persistent environmental pollutant, has been linked to diverse diseases in epidemiological studies; however, its role in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) progression at low exposure levels remains to be elucidated. In this article, we found a significant positive association between serum PFOS concentrations and RA prevalence, based on data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES). Consistent with these findings, chronic exposure to an environmentally relevant dose of PFOS via drinking water for 6 weeks aggravated joint swelling, inflammatory cell infiltration, and bone erosion in a collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) mouse model. Mechanistically, peptidyl arginine deiminase 4 (PAD4), identified as a significantly upregulated protein in synovial fluid through proteomic profiling, is induced by PFOS in macrophages. Consistently, the knockdown of PAD4 was shown to attenuate both PFOS-triggered macrophage pyroptosis in vitro and CIA progression in vivo. Further analyses demonstrated that PFOS suppressed the epigenetic regulator SIRT2, thereby inducing PAD4 transcriptional upregulation. Therefore, macrophage-specific overexpression of SIRT2 rescued PFOS-promoted pyroptosis and mitigated joint inflammation and structural damage in CIA mice. Taken together, these findings demonstrate that low dose PFOS exposure exacerbates RA progression through activation of a SIRT2-PAD4 pathway-dependent macrophage pyroptosis. This not only provides a novel mechanistic link between environmental pollutants and chronic inflammatory joint diseases but also highlights SIRT2/PAD4 axis as a potential therapeutic target for mitigating PFOS-associated immunopathology.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
PADI-4 is a member of the peptidyl arginine deiminase enzyme family. This enzyme is expressed by inflammatory cells and plays an important role in inflammation and immune responses. In this study, we aimed to evaluate serum PADI-4 levels in patients with ulcerative colitis (UC) and to investigate the relationship between PADI-4 and disease activity.Fifty-one patients with UC and 31 healthy controls were included in this observational study. First, serum PADI-4 levels in patients with UC and the control group were compared. Subsequently, serum PADI-4 levels were analyzed in UC patients with active disease and those who are in remission, separately. Finally, the impact of PADI-4 on predicting disease activity was evaluated by performing correlation analyses between serum PADI-4 and C-reactive protein (CRP) in addition to the total Mayo score (TMS) and modified Mayo Endoscopic Subscore (MESS).Serum mean PADI-4 levels were found to be significantly higher in the UC group (1317 ± 818 pg/mL) compared to the control group (873 ± 622 pg/mL) (p: 0.009). Serum mean PADI-4 levels were significantly different between the three groups (patients with remission, mild disease, and moderate/severe disease group) (p: 0.015) (1076 ± 609, 1073 ± 683, and 1802 ± 943 pg/mL, respectively). In Spearman's correlation analysis, it was determined that there was a positive and significant relationship between PADI-4 and CRP levels (r = 0.31, p: 0.027) in addition to TMS (r = 0.419, p: 0.02) and MESS (r = 0.417, p: 0.002). The ideal serum PADI-4 levels for predicting disease activity were found to be 980 pg/mL.Our study revealed that serum PADI-4 levels were higher in patients with UC compared to healthy controls and might be an effective marker to determine disease severity.Copyright © 2026 Semiha Şimşek et al. Gastroenterology Research and Practice published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Variants in the keratin 6A (KRT6A) gene are a major cause of pachyonychia congenita (PC), a rare autosomal dominant disorder characterized by nail hypertrophy and other ectodermal abnormalities. This study aimed to identify the causative mutation in a PC family and investigate the underlying pathogenic mechanism. We performed exome sequencing on this PC pedigree and validated candidate variations using Sanger sequencing. In silico predictions and in vitro experiments showed that the heterozygous missense variant c.512A>G in KRT6A was pathogenic, inducing protein aggregation and disrupting filamentous network structures. Enrichment analysis suggested that the PPAR signaling pathway played a crucial role in PC, with decreased expression of PPARβ/δ in HeLa cells. Comparative analysis of PC patients carrying the p.Asn171 variant revealed marked heterogeneity in clinical manifestations. Notably, oral leukokeratosis, a common phenotype in KRT6A mutation carriers, was not observed in the patients in this study. Interestingly, one patient presented with small papules around the lips and nasal bridge. We conclude that the c.512A>G variant in KRT6A is the genetic cause of this PC family, diagnosed as PC-K6a subtype. This study expands the phenotypic spectrum of congenital PC and suggests the PPAR signaling pathway as a potential therapeutic target.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41648000 is a review article
The purpose of this paper is to explore the mechanism of 18β glycyrrhetinic acid (18β-GRA) in treating gastric cancer. Firstly, the toxicological effects of 18β-GRA were predicted using the ProTox3.0 database. Then, candidate biomarkers for the anti-gastric cancer of 18β-GRA were screened using the weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO), the support vector machine (SVM), the random forest algorithm combined with the TMT proteomics methods. Additionally, we explored the potential upstream transcription factors and downstream interacting proteins of the biomarkers. The WGCNA method yielded 269 targets, while TMT proteomics analysis identified 6,273 genes. Among these, 12 targets were identical. Using LASSO, SVM, and random forest algorithms, three candidate markers were identified: insulin-like growth factor 2 mRNA binding protein 3 (IGF2BP3), keratin 6B (KRT6B), and E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase NEDD4-like (NEDD4L). Based on molecular docking and molecular dynamics results, NEDD4L is believed to be a 18β-GRA biomarker, while sodium channel protein type 5 subunit alpha (SCN5A) and early growth response protein 1 (EGR1) are the potential upstream and downstream regulatory proteins, respectively. These findings provide a theoretical basis for future experimental verification.Copyright © 2026 Lu, Jia, Li, Wang, Zhou, Liu, Zhang, Yuan and Nan.
Lymphovascular invasion (LVI) is a strong predictor of poor prognosis in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), yet its molecular basis remains unclear. This study investigates epithelial regulators associated with LVI and their functional roles in TNBC progression.We utilized single-cell sequencing data to further characterize epithelial cell populations in TNBC, identifying dominant epithelial clusters in LVI-positive TNBC tissues. The prognostic significance of dominant epithelial marker genes was explored through transcriptomic analysis and immunohistochemical staining of patient samples from our center. Additionally, the effects of the marker gene on TNBC cell invasion and metastasis were validated in vitro and in vivo.Single-cell data analysis revealed nine distinct epithelial cell clusters within TNBC tissues. Among these, cluster 4 was identified as the dominant epithelial subpopulation in LVI-positive TNBC, marked by the prognostic gene KRT6A. Multiple datasets confirmed KRT6A as a crucial prognostic marker in TNBC. Functional assays, including Cell Counting Kit-8, wound healing, transwell assays, and animal experiments, demonstrated that KRT6A knockdown significantly impaired the proliferation, invasion, and metastatic potential of TNBC cells. Mechanistically, KRT6A promoted epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and activated Wnt/β-catenin signaling by stabilizing β-catenin through glycogen synthase kinase-3β phosphorylation.KRT6A promotes EMT and metastasis in TNBC via Wnt/β-catenin signaling, contributing to LVI and chemoresistance. It may serve as a prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target in TNBC.
BACKGROUND: Human papillomavirus (HPV) oncogenes, E6 and E7, play a critical role in cervical carcinogenesis, and their expression is regulated by cellular transcription factors bound to the long control region (LCR) in the HPV genome. To elucidate the mechanisms of HPV-induced carcinogenesis, it is important to identify host factors that control the LCR in cervical cancer cells. We previously reported that the LCR-bound transcription factor TEAD1 is critical for HPV oncogene expression. Here, we aimed to elucidate the role of stress-responsive keratin 6A (K6A), a potential cofactor for TEAD1, in HPV oncogene expression. METHODS: HPV16-positive cervical cancer cells were transfected with small interfering RNA (siRNA) or infected with a lentivirus expressing short hairpin RNA (shRNA) to downregulate the expression of K6A. HPV16 oncogene expression was examined by reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction or Western blotting. Retroviral transduction was used to rescue the expression of K6A in K6A-depleted cells. Subcellular localization of K6A was analyzed by cellular fractionation followed by Western blotting. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assay was used to evaluate in vivo binding of K6A to the LCR. The physical interaction between K6A and TEAD1 was assessed by co-immunoprecipitation and fluorescence-based in vivo interaction assays. RESULTS: Transfection of siRNA against K6A decreased levels of HPV16 E6*I mRNA and E7 protein in cervical cancer cells. Lentiviral delivery of shRNA against K6A also reduced E7 protein level and suppressed cell growth. Conversely, ectopic expression of shRNA-resistant K6A in the K6A-depleted cells restored E7 expression, and further siRNA knockdown of TEAD1 in the K6A-rescued cells attenuated E7 expression. K6A was detected in the nuclear fraction of cervical cancer cells with a functional bipartite nuclear localization signal in its N-terminus. ChIP assay showed that nuclear K6A bound to the HPV16 LCR in vivo, partially depending on the presence of the TEAD transcription factors. Finally, protein-protein interaction assays confirmed the association of K6A with TEAD1 in the nucleus. CONCLUSIONS: Nuclear K6A associates with the LCR via TEAD1 and upregulates HPV16 oncogene expression, thereby contributing to cervical cancer development.
The transcription and replication of the genome of influenza A virus (IAV) take place in the nucleus of infected cells, which is catalyzed by the viral ribonucleoprotein (vRNP) complex. The nuclear import of the vRNP complex and its component proteins is essential for the efficient replication of IAV and is therefore prone to be targeted by host restriction factors. Herein, we found that host cellular protein keratin 6A (KRT6A) is a negative regulator of IAV replication because siRNA-mediated knockdown of KRT6A expression increased the growth titers of IAV, whereas exogenous overexpression of KRT6A reduced viral yields. The nuclear import of incoming vRNP complexes and newly synthesized nucleoprotein (NP) was significantly impaired when KRT6A was overexpressed. Further studies showed that KRT6A interacts with the four vRNP complex proteins-polymerase basic protein 1 (PB1), polymerase basic protein 2 (PB2), polymerase acidic protein (PA), and NP. Notably, the interaction between KRT6A and vRNP complex proteins had no effect on the nuclear import of PB2 or the PB1-PA heterodimer but impaired the interaction between NP and the nuclear import adaptor importin α3, thereby inhibiting the nuclear import of incoming vRNP complexes and newly synthesized NP. Moreover, KRT6A was further shown to suppress the assembly of the vRNP complex and consequently reduce viral polymerase activity. Together, our data uncover a novel role of KRT6A in counteracting the nuclear import and functions of the vRNP complex, thereby restricting the replication of IAV.
Skin barrier dysfunction and immune activation are hallmarks of inflammatory skin diseases such as rosacea and psoriasis, suggesting shared pathogenic mechanisms. While barrier disruption may trigger or exacerbate skin inflammation, the precise underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Notably, epidermal barrier compromise leads to a marked increase in barrier alarmin expression. Among these, keratin 6A (KRT6A) plays a role in maintaining skin barrier integrity.We treated mouse skin and human keratinocytes, with and without KRT6A expression, with LL37/TNF-α and assessed the severity of inflammation. The specific mechanism by which KRT6A promotes skin inflammation was investigated using mass spectrometry and immunoprecipitation assays.KRT6A expression was elevated in lesional skin from patients and mouse models of rosacea and psoriasis. In mice with LL37-induced rosacea-like and imiquimod (IMQ)-induced psoriasis-like skin inflammation, KRT6A knockdown alleviated inflammation, whereas KRT6A overexpression exacerbated inflammatory responses. Mechanistically, KRT6A activated signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) and enhanced proinflammatory cytokine expression in keratinocytes by reducing Janus kinase 1 (JAK1) ubiquitination. This occurred through inhibition of ring finger protein 41 (RNF41)-mediated JAK1 binding.Our findings indicate that KRT6A expression increases following epidermal barrier disruption and contributes to exacerbated skin inflammation in disease conditions. Targeting KRT6A may represent a novel therapeutic approach for inflammatory skin diseases associated with epidermal dysfunction.© 2025. The Author(s).
Fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 (Fgfr2) is crucial for the homeostasis of meibomian gland (MG). However, the role of Fgfr2 in MG ductal epithelial progenitors remains to be delineated. Herein, we created a new transgenic mouse model with conditional deletion of Fgfr2 from MG ductal progenitors and investigated the cell-specific role in the pathogenesis of obstructive meibomian gland dysfunction.Peritoneal injection of tamoxifen (TAM) at 50 µg/gm for three consecutive days was performed to induce conditional deletion of Fgfr2 in two-month-old Krt5Fgfr2CKO or Krt5Fgfr2CKO-mTmG mice. Phenotypes of MG after Fgfr2 deletion were monitored by meibography, lipid staining, and immunostaining against keratin-6a in MG whole mounts. Lineage tracing of the Krt5+ progenitors of MG and biomarkers for ductal differentiation and proliferation were also examined by immunostainings.The Krt5Fgfr2CKO mice developed extensive ductal occlusion and acinar atrophy at day 10 after TAM administration. Robust thickening of ductal epithelium with abnormal differentiation and proliferation of ductal basal meibocytes were observed in the MGs of Krt5Fgfr2CKO mice. In Krt5Fgfr2CKO-mTmG mice, the Krt5+ progenitors and its progeny were labeled by EGFP after Fgfr2 depletion by TAM with evident expansion of the suprabasal and superficial layers of MG ductal epithelium when compared with the controls.Our results substantiated the crucial role of Fgfr2 in homeostasis of the MG ductal epithelium. Deletion of Fgfr2 affects the MG ductal basal progenitors by impacting the differentiation of ductal meibocytes and the maintenance of acinar meibocytes, which are likely the underlying pathogenesis of obstructive MGD.
Eukaryotic translation initiation factor 6 (eIF6) plays a crucial role in 60S ribosome biogenesis and protein translation, as well as in hypertrophic scar formation, but its potential role in epithelialization is still poorly understood. Herein, we found that eIF6 negatively correlated with the wound healing process. Mice with genetically knockdown eIF6 (eIF6+/-) showed faster re-epithelization as shown by the longer tongue of the newly formed epidermis. Furthermore, eIF6 ablation accelerated the wound healing process by targeting basal keratinocytes in the eIF6 keratinocyte-conditional knockout (eIF6f/+; Krt5-Cre+) mice. Mechanistically, keratin 6B, an important wound-activated protein, was significantly upregulated in eIF6f/+; Krt5-Cre+ mice skin as proved by RNA-seq, western immunoblots, and immunofluorescence staining. Moreover, an elevated level of KRT6B and accelerated proliferative capacity were also observed in stable knockdown eIF6 HaCaT cells. Taken together, eIF6 downregulation could accelerate epithelialization by upregulating KRT6B expression and promoting keratinocyte proliferation. Our results for the first time indicate that eIF6 might be a novel target to regulate re-epithelialization.© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press.
Diabetic foot ulcers (DFUs) are common and serious problems in diabetes patients. They also represent one of the leading causes of non-traumatic lower limb amputation worldwide. Despite improvements in clinical care, numerous standard therapies fail to completely close chronic diabetic wounds. Cell-free fat extract (Ceffe) aids tissue repair and angiogenesis but its clinical worth is greatly reduced by rapid diffusion and enzymatic degradation in the wound. Silk fibroin methacryloyl (SilMA) can be formulated into a photocrosslinked hydrogel capable of sustained delivery of bioactive factors, whereas polydopamine (pDA) provides durable wet-tissue adhesion. In this work, we developed a multifunctional composite hydrogel pSilMA@Ceffe (polydopamine-coated SilMA hydrogel loaded with Ceffe) that integrates the prolonged release properties of SilMA with the tissue-binding strength of pDA to enhance healing of refractory diabetic wounds. We prepared and characterized pSilMA@Ceffe with respect to physicochemical properties, printability, and release kinetics. Cellular assays and diabetic mouse models employed used to assess biocompatibility. Cell proliferation, migration, and tube formation were evaluated using in vitro assays, while full-thickness skin wounds in db/db mice were used to determine in vivo efficacy. Wound closure was monitored at multiple time points, and tissue regeneration was assessed via H&E, Masson's trichrome, and immunofluorescent staining for CD31, keratin 1 (K1), Ki-67, and type I collagen (Col-1). The final hydrogel had satisfactory 3D printability, stable tissue adhesion, and constant long-term release of Ceffe. It supported cell survival and significantly enhanced proliferation, migration, and angiogenic activity in culture. In diabetic mice, pSilMA@Ceffe accelerated wound healing, neovascularization, and cell proliferation, and promoted more organized collagen deposition in the regenerating dermis. Combining photocrosslinkable handling with robust pro-regenerative activity, pSilMA@Ceffe represents an effective and translatable candidate for the clinical treatment of chronic diabetic wounds.
ObjectiveTo investigate the clinicopathological features, differential diagnosis, and prognosis of undifferentiated carcinoma of the pancreas with osteoclastic giant cells (UCOGCP).MethodsThe clinical histomorphological features and immunohistochemical results of 20 patients of UCOGCP were collected and analyzed. Sanger sequencing was performed on 3 tumor components to assess KRAS gene mutations.ResultsThe 20 patients ranged in age from 52 to 84 years, with a mean age of 62.8 years. The cohort included 12 male patients and 8 female patients. Of the 20 specimens, 9 were pancreaticoduodenectomy specimens, 7 were distal pancreatectomy specimens, and 4 were pancreatic puncture biopsy specimens. Tumor maximum diameters ranged from 1.2 to 11 cm. Microscopically, the tumor was composed of multinucleated giant cells with bland, uniform cytology, and mononuclear cells with significant nuclear atypia. The multinucleated giant cells were large, with abundant eosinophilic cytoplasm, containing several to dozens of uniformly distributed nuclei that exhibited fine chromatin and small, clear nucleoli. The mononuclear cells were round or short spindle-shaped, scattered, with a moderate amount of eosinophilic cytoplasm and marked nuclear atypia, characterized by heterochromatin, active mitotic figures, and easily identifiable pathological mitoses. Both multinucleated giant cells and mononuclear cells expressed vimentin. Multinucleated giant cells expressed CD68, leukocyte common antigen (LCA/C45), and MAC387 and showed a low Ki-67 proliferation index (<10%). Mononuclear cells showed aberrant p53 expression (suggestive of a mutant pattern) and a high Ki-67 proliferation index (>60%). They consistently expressed at least one epithelial marker, including keratin pan, EMA, CAM5.2, keratin 7, keratin 8/18, keratin 19, or keratin 20. Mononuclear cells were negative for S100 protein, Melan A, and HMB45. Molecular pathological analysis revealed KRAS gene mutations in all specimens.ConclusionUndifferentiated carcinoma of the pancreas with osteoclastic giant cell is a rare clinical entity with histomorphological features resembling those of malignant giant cell tumors of bone and soft tissue. It can be distinguished from pleomorphic giant cell carcinoma and pancreatic adenosarcoma through immunohistochemistry and molecular testing. Radical surgical resection remains the optimal treatment for patients with UCOGCP.
IntroductionAdenomyomatous hyperplasia (AH) of the Vaterian system is a rare benign lesion, often clinically mistaken for carcinoma and leading to unnecessary Whipple surgery.MethodsIn this multicentre cohort, Whipple pancreaticoduodenectomy specimens were identified and operated on with a clinical diagnosis of ampullary tumor, which on histological examination, however, showed AH, collected over 3 years (2022-2024). In this retrospective observational study, we analyzed the clinico-radiological and histological details of 12 of such patients and described them here.ResultsIn these 12 patients with pancreaticoduodenectomy, the mean age was 51.7 years (range 29 to 63 years) with a male-to-female patient ratio of 9:3. Although abdominal pain was the most common presentation (11/12 patients); obstructive jaundice occurred in two. The preoperative imaging revealed common bile duct dilatation (11/12) and double duct sign (6/12), with the suspicion of carcinoma in all. Grossly, the lesions measured 0.4 to 4.3 cm (median 1.4 cm), six centered on the ampulla, others extending to the pancreatic head or the distal bile duct. Microscopy showed bland mucous glands, smooth muscle, and fibroblasts; immunohistochemistry confirmed keratin 7, MUC6, MUC5AC, and actin positivity. Ki-67 index was low. No recurrences occurred during 6-48 months follow-up.ConclusionsClinicoradiologically, ampullary AH mimics ampullary malignancy. However, AH should be considered in the clinicopathologic differential diagnosis of ampullary lesions.
Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a chronic inflammatory skin disorder requiring sustainable therapeutic alternatives. Cannabis sativa L. is a valuable industrial crop rich in bioactive secondary metabolites; its potential as a standardized functional ingredient for promoting skin health has not yet been fully investigated. This study aimed to evaluate the therapeutic effects of a chemically characterized C. sativa inflorescence ethanol extract (CSE) on AD.To evaluate the efficacy of CSE, phytochemical profiling was performed using UPLC, and its underlying molecular mechanisms were investigated in a DNCB-induced mouse model.UPLC analysis was employed to establish the phytochemical profile, identifying 15 cannabinoids and quantifying 8 major components. CBDA was the most abundant component, with a content of 261.79 mg/g in the extract. In a DNCB-induced mouse model, CSE significantly reduced mast cell infiltration and serum IgE levels while downregulating Th2-associated cytokines. At the molecular level, CSE inhibited the activation of the MAPK, NLRP3 inflammasome, and JAK1/STAT6 signaling pathways. Crucially, CSE treatment substantially increased the expression of skin barrier proteins, such as filaggrin and involucrin, thereby enhancing skin hydration.These findings suggest CSE as a high-value functional ingredient capable of ameliorating AD by modulating multi-target immune responses. This study provides a robust scientific basis for utilizing standardized C. sativa inflorescence as a potent functional ingredient or a nutraceutical agent for the management of chronic skin inflammatory conditions.
Skin barrier dysfunction and pruritus, central to inflammatory dermatoses, are closely associated with impaired epidermal structural proteins and persistent inflammatory signaling. To address these pathological features, this study aimed to explore the potential anti-inflammatory, barrier-restorative, and anti-pruritic effects of DualPep-ATO, a human-derived cell-penetrating peptide (CPP), using integrated in vitro, ex vivo, and exploratory clinical approaches. Allergic and inflammatory responses were evaluated in rat basophilic leukemia cells and lipopolysaccharide-stimulated macrophages, while barrier-repair properties were partially assessed in ultraviolet B (UVB)-irradiated human epidermal keratinocytes and ex vivo human skin tissue. Mechanistically, DualPep-ATO exhibited no cytotoxicity and successfully suppressed β-hexosaminidase release, nitric oxide production, and pro-inflammatory cytokine expression. Furthermore, it contributed to mitigating skin barrier damage by restoring key epidermal structural proteins, specifically filaggrin, loricrin, and involucrin. Translating these findings clinically, a four-week topical application of a DualPep-ATO cream in adults with compromised skin significantly decreased transepidermal water loss and itch severity. With high participant satisfaction and no reported adverse events, this peptide may serve as a promising peptide-based topical strategy for inflammatory skin conditions associated with barrier dysfunction and pruritus.
The skin barrier is essential for maintaining epidermal homeostasis and preventing transepidermal water loss (TEWL). This study investigated the ability of a Hyssopus officinalis cell culture hydroethanolic extract to support epidermal barrier function by modulating ceramide-related enzymes and structural proteins. Hydroethanolic extracts from cell cultures grown under light and dark conditions were characterized by high-resolution mass spectrometry. Dark-grown cultures accumulated higher levels of rosmarinic acid, hydroxytyrosol glycosides, and polymethoxyflavones than light-grown cultures and intact plants. In keratinocytes, the extract from dark-grown cells (HoEx) at 0.002% w/v exhibited significant antioxidant activity (20% ROS reduction) and increased β-glucocerebrosidase (GBA) activity (25%) as well as the expression of β-glucocerebrosidase (44%), serine palmitoyltransferase (34%), involucrin (17%), and filaggrin (44%) compared with control. In human skin explants, 0.5% w/w HoEx increased ceramide content (36%) and total epidermal lipid levels (99%) relative to control. In a clinical study involving 10 volunteers with mechanically stressed skin, 0.5% w/w HoEx increased GBA activity by 30% and reduced TEWL by 15%, whereas placebo treatment led to a 55% decrease in GBA activity and a 25% increase in TEWL. Collectively, these findings indicate that HoEx modulates multiple epidermal pathways involved in lipid processing and differentiation under in vitro, ex vivo, and stressed in vivo conditions. While the study was not designed to establish mechanistic causality, the coordinated modulation of ceramide-related enzymes, structural proteins, and TEWL suggests that HoEx may support epidermal barrier function within the limits of the tested models. HoEx therefore represents a standardized source of bioactive compounds with potential relevance for dermocosmetic applications.
Palmoplantar epidermal differentiation disorder associated with pachyonychia congenita is a rare autosomal dominant genodermatosis characterized by painful palmoplantar hyperkeratosis and nail dystrophy. Treatment options remain limited, particularly in young children, in whom systemic therapies carry safety concerns. Herein, we report a 2-year-old girl who presented with palmoplantar hyperkeratosis since 1 month of age, with progressive nail dystrophy involving all 20 nails. Whole-exome sequencing identified a hemizygous multi-exon deletion in keratin 16 (ClinVar: SUB16259296; OMIM: #167200), and orthogonal validation using amplicon-based high-throughput sequencing confirmed a 437-nucleotide deletion predicted to result in a frameshift with premature termination codon (PTC). American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics classification supported likely pathogenicity. Twice-daily application of topical 2.5% simvastatin/cholesterol cream for 11 weeks produced substantial improvement in plantar hyperkeratosis, resolution of painful fissures, and visibly improved morphology of nascent nail growth. No local or systemic adverse effects were observed. This case provides preliminary evidence that topical simvastatin may be an effective and well-tolerated therapy for keratin 16-associated palmoplantar epidermal differentiation disorder in young children, and highlights the potential importance of topical drug delivery in achieving therapeutic efficacy for this genetic subtype.© 2026 Zhong, Zhang, Feng, Zhang and Chen.
Complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS) is a disabling condition relying in part on the production of pain-supporting autoantibodies. The Janus kinase/signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK-STAT) signaling system regulates the adaptive system of immunity and is targeted to control autoimmune diseases.To evaluate the hypothesis that JAK-STAT inhibition could reduce the behavioral, cellular, and biochemical correlates of CRPS in a well-characterized murine tibia fracture model.Tofacitinib was used to inhibit JAK-STAT activity. Mechanical sensitization and hindlimb unweighting were used to follow nociceptive changes. Assays of regional lymph node hypertrophy, germinal center formation, and autoantibody production probed activation of adaptive immunity while single cell mass cytometry (CyTOF) identified specific cell sets sensitive to tofacitinib in this model.Tofacitinib reduced hindlimb allodynia and unweighting in male and female mice after tibial fracture. Subsequent experiments focused on male mice showed reduced autoantibody binding to keratin 16, histone 3.2, GFAP, and NMDAR2B in fracture animals treated with tofacitinib. The enhanced deposition of IgM in the skin of fracture limb hind paws was also eliminated by tofacitinib. Correspondingly, tofacitinib reduced lymph node hypertrophy and germinal center formation. Mass cytometry demonstrated that CD4+ and CD8+ T lymphocytes in regional lymph nodes show tofacitinib-sensitive changes in the activation of key immune signaling systems after fracture including BCL6, IkB, pCREB, and pS6. Conversely, enhanced production of the innate immune mediators IL-1β and IL-6 were not suppressed by tofacitinib.We conclude that tofacitinib reduces the regional nociceptive changes found in a murine model of CRPS possibly through inhibition of autoantibody production.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. on behalf of The International Association for the Study of Pain.
AD involves barrier dysfunction and immune imbalance. Roles of LCE3D and TGF-β1 remain unclear.Bioinformatics analysis (GEO: GSE130588), RT-qPCR, ELISA, and Western blot were performed in 30 CE patients and 30 controls, including 15 serum pairs. TNF-α-stimulated HaCaT and NHEK cells were used to establish an AD-like model. LCE3D knockdown and overexpression were conducted, and TGF-β1 silencing was used to explore mechanistic interaction.LCE3D was upregulated in AD tissues and serum, negatively correlated with TGF-β1, and associated with disease severity and IL-4/IFN-γ imbalance. In vitro, TNF-α increased LCE3D and IL-4 while decreasing IFN-γ and TGF-β1. LCE3D knockdown increased TGF-β1, IFN-γ, and barrier proteins (involucrin, loricrin) and reduced IL-4, whereas overexpression showed opposite effects. TGF-β1 silencing reversed these effects.LCE3D promotes AD progression by suppressing TGF-β1, driving Th2/Th1 imbalance and epidermal barrier dysfunction. The LCE3D/TGF-β1 axis is a potential therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The epidermis provides the body's outermost barrier, yet how G-protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) signaling via the G12/13 family regulates epidermal homeostasis in vivo remains unclear. Here, we selectively activated G12 signaling in keratinocytes using a chemogenetic strategy. Activation of a G12-coupled designer receptor (G12D) in mouse epithelial cells induced pronounced epidermal thickening while preserving stratified architecture and avoiding overt inflammatory skin changes. This thickening was accompanied by increased Ki67-positive cells, expansion of keratin 10- and filaggrin-positive layers, and transcriptomic upregulation of genes related to keratinocyte differentiation, keratinization, and epidermal barrier function. Functionally, G12D activation strengthened barrier performance, as shown by blunted transepidermal water loss responses to mechanical barrier disruption. Although alarmin-related genes were upregulated, cytokine analyses indicated only modest inflammatory changes. Pharmacologic inhibition of TYK2 (deucravacitinib) partially reduced G12D-driven epidermal thickening, whereas mTORC1 inhibition (rapamycin) produced a stronger suppressive effect, suggesting that the mTORC1-dependent keratinocyte response is a major driver of this phenotype, with a moderate TYK2-dependent component. Together, these findings identify epidermal G12 signaling as a regulator that promotes "non-pathological" epidermal thickening coupled to enhanced barrier function, supporting G12-coupled GPCRs as potential therapeutic entry points for barrier-compromised skin disorders.© 2026 The Author(s). FASEB BioAdvances published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Three-dimensional (3D) human skin constructs are gaining increasing relevance important in regenerative research, drug testing and the cosmetics industry. They offer great potential to overcome the anatomical and physiological limitations of animal models, yet current models are often limited by high costs, batch-to-batch variability, and mechanical properties that poorly replicate native skin. In particular, discrepancies in elasticity and tensile strength compared to the natural extracellular matrix (ECM) of skin remain a major challenge. To address this, we developed a novel hybrid hydrogel composed of 20% gelatin-methacrylamide (GelMA) and 5% methacrylated elastin (ElMA) derived from porcine aorta, forming the basis of a bi-layered 3D skin construct that mimics both epidermal and dermal ECM structures. Using this bioink, we created two distinct model variants: a GelMA-ElMA (GE) formulation and a GelMA-ElMA composition reinforced with a GelMA electrospun nanofleece (GEN) to support enhanced epidermal maturation. The resulting constructs support fibroblast proliferation within the dermal layer and epidermal stratification marked by expression of keratin 14, Keratin 10 and involucrin, reflecting the architecture of native skin. The presence of elastin contributed to high biocompatibility and cytocompatibility, enhancing both cell proliferation and metabolic activity. Furthermore, the model proved suitable for studying IL-1α-induced inflammation and wound healing processes. This work demonstrates the potential of GelMA-ElMA-based bioinks to advance skin tissue engineering by integrating mechanical stability with biological relevance, offering a promising platform for both fundamental research and applied testing.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
We report the case of a 55-year-old male who presented with asymptomatic scrotal papules since 3-4 months. He had no comorbidities. Clinical differentials comprised genital verrucae and high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion (previously called bowenoid papulosis). Skin biopsy findings comprised perinuclear vacuolization of the stratum spinosum and granulosum, reticular degeneration, and coarse keratohyaline granules. These features were suggestive of epidermolytic acanthoma. Surprisingly, DNA PCR was positive for HPV52, a high-risk HPV type, unlike previous case reports. Further research may be warranted on the pathogenesis, especially keratin 10 mutations and HPV positivity.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Wound healing restores tissue integrity through tightly coordinated cellular and molecular programs, yet the biological processes that persist after apparent closure remain largely unexplored. Using a standardized mouse hard palate injury model combined with histological, lineage-tracing, molecular, and epigenetic analyses, we show that rapid re-epithelialization is followed by months of cellular remodeling. Although wounds re-epithelialized within two weeks, temporal analyses revealed that the regenerated epithelium maintained leading-edge-like features for months. Structural reorganization, including increased cell density and epithelial thickness, persisted well beyond closure, accompanied by sustained proliferation and elevated apoptosis mediated by the p53-p21 pathway, thereby removing cells with DNA damage during tissue remodeling. Lineage tracing revealed marked alterations in Wnt-responsive epithelial stem cells, which were transiently lost from the repaired epithelium and gradually repopulated the tissue over approximately four months. Repair-activated keratinocytes showed sustained expression of keratin 6 and keratin 17 and delayed recovery of differentiation markers keratin 10 and filaggrin, indicating prolonged epithelial activation despite morphological closure. Coordinated alterations in histone marks H2AK119ub, H3K27ac, and H3K27me3, and persistent immune infiltration, indicate lasting molecular and microenvironmental remodeling that maintains the tissue in a memory-like state. Together, these findings indicate that oral wound healing is an extended, multi-phase process in which post-healing remodeling restores epithelial homeostasis and ensures proper resolution of the repair response.© 2026. The Author(s).
Dihydroorotate dehydrogenase (DHODH), a key enzyme in de novo pyrimidine biosynthesis, has recently emerged as a therapeutic target in various cancers. We have previously identified a pivotal role of DHODH in the initiation of cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC), the second most common type of non-melanoma skin cancer. We also showed that pharmacological inhibition of this enzyme suppresses ultraviolet (UV)-induced tumor formation. However, the key mechanisms driving the anticancer activity of DHODH inhibition remain unexplored in cSCC. We investigated the biological consequences of pharmacological and genetic DHODH inhibition in cSCC using xenograft models derived from two human cell lines, A431 and SCC13, implanted in immunodeficient NSG mice. DHODH activity was suppressed pharmacologically with leflunomide (LFN) and the potent DHODH inhibitor PTC299, or genetically via lentiviral shRNA-mediated DHODH silencing (shDHODH). Proteomic and metabolomic analyses were integrated with histopathological, immunohistochemical, and immunoblotting evaluations to delineate the downstream effects of DHODH blockade. Comprehensive proteomic and metabolomic profiling revealed that DHODH inhibition induces a coordinated adaptive program involving keratinization, differentiation, redox homeostasis, and metabolic stress responses. Histological and immunostaining analyses demonstrated marked reductions in Ki67-positive proliferating cells and a corresponding increase in pan-cytokeratin (PanCK) and keratin 10 (Krt10) expression, indicative of enhanced epithelial differentiation. These changes were most pronounced in PTC299-treated and shDHODH xenografts, whereas LFN displayed minimal or no efficacy in SCC13 tumors. DHODH inhibition drives tumor differentiation and suppresses proliferation in cSCC, highlighting metabolic dependency as a potential therapeutic vulnerability. PTC299 exhibited superior antitumor activity and differentiation-inducing capacity compared with LFN. These findings position DHODH as a promising target for bioenergetic vulnerability-based cancer therapy in advanced or treatment-resistant cSCC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Psoriasis is a common immune-mediated inflammatory skin disease. The sympathetic nervous system (SNS), a complex network consisting of endocrine and local arms, holds a significant position in the modulation of immune response, while the exact function varies depending on the specific disease type, the type of cell involved, and the intricate architecture of the SNS. Therefore, this study aimed to elucidate the precise role of sympathetic signaling in psoriasis.Using an imiquimod-induced psoriasis mouse model, we evaluated the in vivo effects of sympathetic signaling intervention through gross phenotype observation, histology, and flow cytometric analysis of inflammatory cell infiltrations. Human primary keratinocytes (KCs), isolated from donor foreskins from patients under undergoing urological surgery at the Department of Urology, Xijing Hospital, were employed to investigate the role and mechanism of sympathetic signaling in regulating C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 1 (CXCL1) production and neutrophil recruitment, utilizing Western blot analysis, immunofluorescence and transwell assays.In psoriatic mice, local denervation of skin sympathetic fibers resulted in markedly reduced erythema, scaling, and epidermal thickness compared to controls, while systemic denervation did not. Local denervation also reduced neutrophil infiltration in skin lesions. This reduction was associated with sympathetic signaling that upregulated CXCL1 expression in KCs without altering Keratin 1, Keratin 10, or interleukin (IL)-25 levels. The β2-adrenergic receptor (ADRB2) was highly expressed in psoriatic KCs. KCs treated with norepinephrine (NE) or ADRB2 agonist salbutamol increased cyclic adenosine monophosphate response element-binding protein (CREB) phosphorylation and CXCL1 expression, effects that were abolished by an ADRB2 antagonist. In mice, topical salbutamol increased local CXCL1, accelerated early neutrophil infiltration, and worsened subsequent erythema, scaling, and epidermal thickening. Conversely, topical ADRB2 antagonist or CREB inhibitor application decreased epidermal thickening, reduced CXCL1 expression, and lowered neutrophil infiltration.Activation of skin local sympathetic signaling in KCs induces CXCL1 production via the ADRB2-CREB pathway, which contributes to recruiting neutrophils to the skin lesions and fuels psoriatic inflammation.Copyright © 2026 The Chinese Medical Association, produced by Wolters Kluwer, Inc. under the CC-BY-NC-ND license.
Pediatric erythroderma can arise from either inherited keratin defects or cytokine-driven inflammation, yet evidence for biologic therapies in these settings is limited. We report two rare pediatric cases successfully treated with secukinumab, an IL17A-targeted monoclonal antibody: (i) a 2-year-old boy with genetically confirmed epidermolytic ichthyosis (EI, KRT10 mutation:c.467G>A, p.Arg156His) refractory to conventional care, who achieved >60% improvement in erythema and scaling one week after a single off-label 150 mg subcutaneous secukinumab dose, with remission maintained for 12 months on monthly dosing; and (ii) an 11-year-old girl with coexistent Type III (juvenile) pityriasis rubra pilaris and acute generalized pustular psoriasis (PRP-GPP overlap) unresponsive to acitretin and methotrexate, who attained complete remission for 12 months following standard secukinumab induction (300mg weekly ×5) and maintenance every four weeks. These cases extend the potential utility of IL17A blockade beyond psoriasis vulgaris to both structural keratinopathies and inflammatory pustular dermatoses in children. While limited by the nature of a two-patient case series, these findings warrant prospective studies to clarify optimal dosing and long-term safety of IL-17A blockade in pediatric dermatology.© 2026 Xu and Zhang.
To investigate the therapeutic potential of Curcuma longa-derived extracellular vesicle-like particles (CL-EVLPs) in a benzalkonium chloride (BAC)-induced corneal injury model.CL-EVLPs were isolated via ultracentrifugation and characterized. A murine dry eye model was induced by topical application of BAC. Corneal injury and repair outcomes were assessed using clinical scoring, histopathology, and proteomic analysis. Western blotting and real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction were conducted to quantify protein or mRNA levels. Bioinformatics analysis was performed using STRING and Cytoscape software.CL-EVLPs, with a typical saucer- or cup-shaped structure with a peak diameter of 104 nm and an average diameter of 138.4 ± 64.3 nm, were efficiently taken up by corneal epithelial cells. Treatment with CL-EVLPs significantly accelerated corneal epithelial repair, reduced pathologic neovascularization, promoted corneal nerve regeneration, and suppressed inflammatory responses in a dry eye mouse model. Proteomic analysis revealed that CL-EVLPs are involved mainly in biological processes such as inflammation, oxidative stress, and immune regulation. Mechanistically, CL-EVLPs upregulated the cornea-specific protein keratin 12 but downregulated the hyperproliferation-associated protein Keratin 10. Additionally, we confirmed that key factors such as proangiogenic VEGFA, proteolytic MMP9, the inflammatory mediators IL-1β and S100A8/A9, and the related transcription factor NF-κB were significantly suppressed, whereas the expression levels of the transcription activator Nrf2 increased.CL-EVLPs represent a novel natural nanobiologic that restores ocular surface homeostasis, effectively enhancing corneal epithelial regeneration and neural repair in the ocular surface microenvironment. This study provides a foundation for the development of plant-derived EVLPs as a safer and more economical therapeutic strategy for ocular surface disorders.
Camellia japonica L. (Theaceae) seed oil is an essential component for skin protection, attributed to its antioxidant properties and anti-aging effects. In this study, Camellia japonica seed oil underwent fermentation with Sporidiobolus pararoseus (Fell & Tallman, CGMCC No. 39106, commercial name: Longevity yeast of 1021-year-Camellia japonica). The post-fermented oil, designated Longevity Yeast Oil (LYO), was used in the present research. Gas chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis demonstrated that methyl esterification of LYO afforded twelve fatty acid methyl esters. We used an aging model in human epidermal keratinocytes and human skin fibroblasts exposed to ultraviolet B (UVB) to explore the anti-skin aging effects and mechanisms of LYO. The results of the CCK-8 assay demonstrated that LYO exhibited no cytotoxicity but instead displayed potential proliferative activity, indicating its excellent safety profile. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction analyses confirmed that LYO downregulated the expression of autophagy marker p62 and upregulated LC3B, thereby activating the autophagic pathway. Further investigation revealed that LYO protected against UVB-induced apoptosis, promoted the synthesis of collagen and elastin, and upregulated the expression of loricrin, filaggrin, and ceramides, effectively reversing UVB-induced skin cellular aging. Notably, we further revealed that LYO alleviated UVB-induced cutaneous photoaging via activating cellular autophagy pathway. In conclusion, LYO demonstrated biocompatibility and conferred protection to skin cells against photoaging, thereby establishing a theoretical basis for the development of innovative autophagy-targeted anti-aging therapies.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42512080 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42507397 is a review article
Psoriasis is a chronic inflammatory skin disease characterized by dysregulated cross-talk between macrophages and keratinocytes, resulting in excessive cytokine signaling and impaired epidermal barrier function. Traditional Jaungo has long been used as a topical remedy for inflammatory skin disorders, and its core herbal components exhibit well-documented anti-inflammatory and tissue-protective properties. This study aimed to develop a Jaungo-based herbal complex (JBHC) and evaluate its effects on macrophage-mediated inflammatory responses and keratinocyte barrier dysfunction under psoriasis-like conditions.Publicly available transcriptomic datasets were analyzed to identify inflammatory and barrier-related gene expression patterns in psoriatic lesions. The anti-inflammatory effects of JBHC were assessed in LPS-stimulated RAW264.7 macrophages by analyzing the expression of inflammatory mediators and signaling pathways. To evaluate macrophage-keratinocyte cross-talk, conditioned media from activated macrophages, with or without JBHC treatment, were applied to keratinocytes, followed by analysis of epidermal barrier gene expression.Transcriptomic analyses revealed consistent upregulation of inflammatory cytokines and chemokines, accompanied by significant suppression of key epidermal barrier genes in psoriatic lesions. JBHC markedly attenuated LPS-induced inflammatory signaling in RAW264.7 macrophages by downregulating NOS2, PTGS2, and multiple cytokine genes, while selectively modulating STAT1/STAT3 activation. Conditioned media from activated macrophages significantly suppressed the expression of filaggrin (FLG) and loricrin (LOR) in keratinocytes; however, conditioned media from JBHC-treated macrophages effectively mitigated this barrier gene suppression.JBHC modulates macrophage-mediated inflammatory pathways and protects keratinocyte barrier gene expression under psoriasis-like inflammatory conditions. These findings suggest that JBHC has potential as a functional herbal complex targeting the macrophage-keratinocyte inflammatory axis in chronic inflammatory skin diseases such as psoriasis.Copyright © 2026 Byeon, Ye, Seo and Kwon.
Cornification is a terminal differentiation process involving the synthesis of structural proteins, including α-keratin, loricrin and filaggrin-like protein, with the enzymatic contribution of transglutaminase 1 (TGM-1). The present study aimed to characterize the expression profiles of these proteins in the ortho- and parakeratinized epithelia of the lingual mucosa in domestic goose embryos from day 9 to day 25 of incubation, using immunohistochemical analysis. The spatial expression of the structural proteins and TGM-1 in both lingual epithelia was analyzed during three developmental stages: embryonic, transformation, and prehatching, revealing a slight temporal shift. During the embryonic stage, the expression of structural proteins and TGM-1 began, indicating early epithelial cytodifferentiation. At the transformation stage, differentiation of the epithelia into three layers and periderm formation with a marked increase in expression of the studied proteins occurred. For the first time, differences in the expression patterns of structural proteins and TGM-1 were observed in the periderm. By the prehatching stage, a cornified layer was present in both epithelia. Notably, only α-keratin expression in both epithelia and filaggrin-like protein and loricrin expression in cornified layer of the orthokeratinized epithelium resembled the adult pattern. These findings indicate that cornification is initiated during the transformation stage, approximately two-thirds of the embryonic period. Before hatching, epithelia have a cornified layer. However, the expression patterns of structural proteins and TGM-1 differ from those observed in adults, suggesting that cornification continues after hatching.© 2026. The Author(s).
Lamellar ichthyosis (LI) is a rare hereditary disorder of keratinization, most commonly inherited in an autosomal recessive manner and frequently associated with pathogenic variants in the TGM1 gene. Patients usually present with generalized scaling, xerosis, and pruritus from birth. Current therapeutic options remain limited, and systemic retinoids are often associated with considerable adverse effects.A 14-year-old female individual presented with generalized pruritic, lamellar scale-like skin changes present since birth. The diagnosis of LI was established based on clinical findings, histopathological evaluation, and genetic testing [two pathogenic variants in the TGM1 gene, consistent with autosomal recessive congenital ichthyosis type 1, Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man (OMIM): 242300]. Oral administration of acitretin (10 mg twice daily) was initiated; however, treatment was discontinued due to elevated hepatic transaminase levels and severe xerosis with pruritus. Subcutaneous administration of secukinumab (150 mg weekly) was subsequently initiated. After five weekly doses, the dosing frequency was reduced to once monthly. Over 8 weeks, substantial clinical improvement was observed, with a satisfactory therapeutic response. The patient remained on active treatment at the time of reporting.Secukinumab appeared to be effective in this patient with LI and may warrant further investigation as a potential therapeutic option for inherited ichthyosis.© AME Publishing Company.
The razor clam Sinonovacula constricta inhabits sulfide-rich intertidal sediments and exhibits remarkable tolerance to this toxicant, yet the role of its periostracum in sulfide adaptation remains poorly understood. In this study, we investigated the composition and structure of the periostracum proteins, and the response of the mantle to sulfide stress. Scanning electron microscopy and energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy revealed that the periostracum is approximately 10 μm thick and contains 1.43 wt% sulfur, and proteomic analysis further confirmed the presence of organic sulfur (Cys/Met-rich proteins), suggesting its involvement in sulfur deposition. Using LC-MS/MS, we identified 77 high-confidence proteins from the periostracum, which were classified into six functional categories: enzymes, framework proteins, immune-related proteins, calcium ion-related proteins, other proteins, and proteins with unknown functions. Phylogenetic analyses of representative proteins revealed bivalve-specific evolutionary patterns, with several proteins exclusively present in Bivalvia, such as Unknown protein 2 and 7, which possess signal peptides and low-complexity domains. For the sulfide exposure experiment, razor clams were subjected to three Na2S concentrations (0, 10, and 100 μM). qPCR analysis showed that, compared with the control group, Chitin-binding protein 3 and Tyrosinase were significantly upregulated in the mantle, peaking in the 100 μM group at 48 h (5677.84-fold and 157.20-fold, respectively), whereas Collagen and Cadherin 3 were generally suppressed. This study represents one of the most comprehensive proteomic profiles of the razor clam periostracum and highlights the mantle's potential role in sulfide tolerance, offering insights for sulfur-tolerant aquaculture breeding and bioremediation applications.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) remains a therapeutic challenge due to its metastatic features and resistance to conventional therapies. This study investigated the synergistic potential of quercetin (QC), a natural flavonoid, and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) in targeting epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) to inhibit proliferation and migration of the MDA-MB-231 TNBC cell line.Cytotoxicity and selectivity were assessed using the MTT assay in MDA-MB-231 cells and normal MRC-5 fibroblasts. Synergy was quantified using combination index (CI) values. Scratch assay was assessed for migration inhibition, while quantitative RT-PCR analyzed EMT-related gene expression (Vimentin, ZEB1, N-cadherin, and E-cadherin). Western blotting confirmed protein expression of ZEB1 and E-cadherin following treatment with QC (50 μM), 5-FU (25 nM), or their combination.QC and 5-FU demonstrated concentration- and time-dependent cytotoxicity in MDA-MB-231 cells, with QC being highly selective for cancer cells. Toxicity in normal MRC-5 fibroblasts occurred only at 800 µM (25% viability). The combination of 50 µM of QC and 25 nM of 5-FU exhibited the strongest synergy (CI = 0.08), reducing viability by 75% and migration by 87.8%. QC alone downregulated ZEB1, Vimentin, and N-cadherin, while 5-FU further reduced these markers. Combined treatment enhanced suppression (ZEB1: 0.46-fold; Vimentin: 0.47-fold; N-cadherin: 0.68-fold) and significantly upregulated E-cadherin (3.75-fold), indicating EMT reversal. Western blotting confirmed decreased ZEB1 and increased E-cadherin by over four-fold with QC + 5-FU, indicating a shift to an epithelial phenotype.Combining QC and 5-FU effectively inhibited TNBC proliferation and migration while minimizing toxicity to normal cells. This dual-action strategy offers a promising low-toxicity therapeutic approach for aggressive TNBC.
Breast cancer therapy is compromised by widespread tamoxifen resistance. The modulatory role of Caspase14 in the early growth response protein 1 (EGR1)/hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha (HIF-1α) axis in this context is unclear. We investigated how Caspase14 regulates EGR1/HIF-1α to promote 4-hydroxytamoxifen (4-OHT) resistance in MCF7 cells using cell-based genetic and biochemical assays (small-interference RNA knockdown, plasmid overexpression, Western blotting, qPCR, IC50 assays, and Chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments) across multiple independent experiments. Caspase14 expression correlated with resistance, with IC50 rising from 0.178 µM to 1.575 µM in resistant variants. EGR1 knockdown reduced Caspase14 and downstream targets GLUT3 and BCRP, implicating EGR1 as a key mediator. Resistant cells displayed elevated HIF-1α that enhanced metabolism and migration, further supporting a role in drug resistance. These data indicate that Caspase14 promotes survival, proliferation, and metabolic reprogramming in resistant MCF7 cells via the EGR1/HIF-1α pathway. Our findings reveal a mechanistic link between Caspase14 and endocrine therapy resistance and nominate Caspase14 as a therapeutic target to overcome tamoxifen resistance, with potential translational relevance.© 2026 the author(s), published by De Gruyter, Berlin/Boston.
Lysine carboxymethyl cysteinate (LCC) has been identified as a glutathione (GSH) precursor for the use of cosmetic products, providing a defense against oxidative stress by elevating GSH levels, and mitigating UVB-induced pigmentation and barrier disruption. In this study, the protective efficacy of LCC on epidermal barrier integrity under UVB irradiation was systematically evaluated and its underlying mechanisms were investigated. Results from the UVB-exposed 3D living skin equivalent model (LSE) indicated that LCC effectively restored UVB-induced reductions in epidermal living cell thickness by 9.67%. In addition, LCC markedly increased the expression of key biomarkers related to cornified envelope (CE) formation and skin hydration, including transglutaminase 1, involucrin, loricrin and aquaporin 3 by 104.80%, 121.67%, 218.63% and 388.39%, respectively, compared with the UVB group. Transcriptomics analysis in human primary keratinocytes further revealed that LCC regulated multiple biological functions, including glutathione synthesis pathway, oxidation response, inflammatory process, and notably autophagy. After confirming LCC's potential in boosting autophagy-associated gene expression (p-value < 0.05) and autophagy activity (p-value < 0.01) in keratinocytes, functional validation in the same model confirmed that LCC counteracted UVB-induced suppression of genes involved in barrier formation, particularly those associated with CE development and autophagy, while these protective effects were abolished by chloroquine, an autophagy inhibitor. Findings from the UVB-exposed LSE model further substantiated this mechanism. Collectively, these results demonstrate that LCC safeguards the epidermis from UVB-induced cornification abnormalities through the activation of autophagy.
Despite advances in diagnostics, many inherited peripheral neuropathies remain genetically unexplained. We investigated whether biallelic variants in FAT3 (FAT Atypical Cadherin 3) are implicated in inherited axonal neuropathies.We identified biallelic FAT3 variants in three unrelated individuals among 3315 Japanese patients with inherited peripheral neuropathies. Variants were evaluated by segregation analysis, in silico modeling, and functional studies in Drosophila and mouse models.All patients exhibited progressive distal muscle weakness and cranial nerve involvement, including tongue atrophy, dysarthria, and facial weakness. Two required ventilatory support because of respiratory muscle paralysis. One patient additionally showed central hypomyelination, autonomic dysfunction, and developmental anomalies, such as congenital scoliosis and intestinal pseudo-obstruction. Identified variants were ultrarare, affected conserved residues, segregated with disease, and were predicted to impair domain stability. FAT3 knockdown in Drosophila resulted in rough eye phenotype, shortened lifespan, impaired motor function, and defective motor neuron branching. Fat3 knockout and knockin mice displayed perinatal lethality, sciatic nerve axonal degeneration, and central nervous system abnormalities despite preserved motor performance.Our findings establish FAT3 as a novel gene for autosomal-recessive axonal neuropathies and support the concept of a FAT3-related multisystem neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by motor neuron degeneration and systemic abnormalities.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41854176
Despite the established importance of hydrogen sulfide (H2S) in redox biology, strategies to modulate its endogenous levels remain largely unexplored. Here, we show that a keratin fraction (KF) obtained from natural sources modulates H2S homeostasis and protein redox state through sulfhydration. Chemoproteomic analysis identified keratin 2 (K2; UniProtKB P25691, keratin, type II microfibrillar, component 5) as the most hyperreactive keratin toward sulfhydration. Oral administration of K2 to mice alleviated lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced inflammatory fever and led to the generation of K2-derived peptides (K2Ps) and their sulfhydrated form (K2P-SSH) in the intestine. Compared with K2Ps, K2P-SSH showed enhanced anti-inflammatory and antioxidant activities and promoted widespread protein sulfhydration. Mechanistically, K2P-SSH induced sulfhydration of high-mobility group box 1 (HMGB1) at Cys23 and Cys106, which was associated with reduced disulfide bond formation and dimerization, impaired interaction with toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), and attenuation of downstream inflammatory signaling. Taken together, this study reveals a previously unrecognized role of K2 in converting H2S into protective sulfhydration signals and identifies K2P-SSH as a bioactive intermediate that alleviates oxidative-inflammatory stress via sulfhydration of HMGB1 at Cys23 and Cys106.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Effective endoscopic management of gastric hemorrhage necessitates a hemostat with rapid coagulation capabilities and sustained protection against gastric acid erosion. This study demonstrates that silk fibroin-tannic acid (SF-TA), which exhibits unique acid-triggered adhesion enhancement under acidic conditions, serves as a potential foundation for gastric hemorrhage management. This supramolecular structure displays an enhanced adhesion pattern to epithelial keratin-2 (EKRT2) at pH 1. The weakened electrostatic shielding effect and the rearrangement of water molecules induced by H⁺ significantly enhance the electrostatic interactions and van der Waals forces between the functional groups (-NH₂, -COOH, and Ar-OH) of SF-TA and EKRT2. This results in an over 50 % increase in adhesion strength under simulated gastric fluid (SGF, pH 1.3) compared to that in PBS (pH 7.3). The β-sheet repeat domain of SF offers a stable conformation, facilitating strong binding with TA, thereby maintaining integrity in gastric fluid for over 5 days. SF-TA is further reinforced with procoagulant silk fibroin nanofibers/protein corona (SFNPC), enabling rapid control of pig gastrorrhagia within 2 min, providing persistent protection in gastric fluid to prevent rebleeding, and facilitating gastric mucosal healing within 5 days. This study reveals the acid-triggered enhanced adhesion pattern of silk fibroin/tannic acid, offering a feasible approach for the further development of biomaterials for long-term gastric hemorrhage and conditions management. STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: This work presents a biomaterial-based hemostat with transformative potential for managing gastric hemorrhage. Its significance lies in the unique acid-triggered adhesive mechanism of the silk fibroin-tannic acid (SF-TA) complex, which exhibits enhanced adhesion to mucosal proteins under extreme gastric acidity (pH 1), a critical limitation of existing hemostatic agents. This supramolecular system ensures robust, long-lasting cohesion for over 5 days. Furthermore, when reinforced with procoagulant nanofibers (SFNPC), it achieves rapid hemostasis, provides a durable physical barrier against acid erosion and rebleeding, and actively promotes mucosal healing. This technology offers a comprehensive and efficient therapeutic strategy, addressing the key challenges of rapid coagulation and sustained protection in the harsh gastric environment.Copyright © 2025 Acta Materialia Inc. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The present study investigated the effects of alfalfa hay supplementation at different time points on rumen development in preweaning lambs and its underlying mechanisms. Thirty-six 7-d-old lambs (3.88 ± 0.92 kg) were randomly allocated to two feeding treatments, with 18 lambs in each group. Three lambs were housed together in the same pen as a single unit. After 7 d of adaptation to the milk replacer (MR), one group received MR and starter pellets, along with chopped alfalfa starting at 14 d of age (early alfalfa feeding group [EAF]), and the other group received the same diet but with chopped alfalfa introduced at 42 d of age (late alfalfa feeding group [LAF]). All lambs had ad libitum access to starter pellets and chopped alfalfa. At 42, 56, and 70 d of age, six lambs were randomly selected from each treatment group for slaughter. Rumen contents and epithelial tissues were collected for bacterial 16S rRNA sequencing and transcriptome analysis, respectively. At 42 d of age, the results indicated that the body weight (P < 0.05), average daily gain (P < 0.05), total dry matter intake (P < 0.05), rumen papillae length (P = 0.04), and rumen muscle layer thickness (P = 0.01) were higher in the EAF compared with LAF group. Nevertheless, the α-amylase activity (P = 0.04) and stratum corneum thickness (P < 0.01) were lower in the EAF compared with LAF group. However, no statistically significant differences were observed in growth performance, rumen fermentation parameters, and tissue morphology indicators at 56 and 70 d of age between EAF and LAF groups (P > 0.05). The EAF group exhibited lower abundances of Lachnospiraceae_NK3A20 and Muribaculaceae compared to the LAF group at 42 d of age (P < 0.05). The transcriptomic results showed that early supplementation with alfalfa upregulates the expression of solute carrier family 2 like 14 (BCL2L14) and downregulates the expression levels of keratin 2 (KRT2) and stearoyl-CoA desaturase (SCD) in 42-d-old lambs. In conclusion, supplementing alfalfa at 14 d of age is beneficial to rumen development. However, this advantage gradually diminishes as the lambs grow older. The mechanism underlying the promotion of rumen development may be related to the expression of KRT2 and BCL2L14.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Society of Animal Science.
Stable isotopes of carbon (δ13C) and nitrogen (δ15N) are increasingly employed to study the foraging ecology of ectothermic predators like crocodilians. However, accurate and precise estimations of trophic discrimination factors between diet and crocodile tissues (Δ13C and Δ15N) from captive experiments under controlled conditions are necessary to reliably quantify the contribution of different prey items make to their diet. The issue of an isotopically constant diet which leads to isotope equilibrium is an important factor influencing accurate estimations of diet-tissue discrimination factors. We raised Nile crocodiles (Crocodylus niloticus) under controlled experimental conditions feeding them with two isotopically distinct (but constant) diets until tissues reached isotopic equilibrium. We sampled blood (plasma and red blood cells, RBC), scute keratin and collagen, and nail tissues throughout the experiment to estimate diet-tissue discrimination factors. Overall, our estimations of average diet-tissue discrimination factors for δ13C were +0.2 ‰ for plasma, +0.1 ‰ for RBC, +0.2 ‰ for keratin, +1.9 ‰ for collagen, and +1.2 ‰ for nail tissue, while for δ15N values were -0.6 ‰ for plasma, +1.5 ‰ for RBC, +1.5 ‰ for keratin, +2.3 ‰ for collagen, and +1.8 ‰ for nail tissue. Body size did not have a significant effect on these tissue estimates, but plasma Δ15N was influenced slightly. Understanding these differences in ectotherm isotope ecology is crucial for interpreting trophic relationships within food webs that include animals such as reptiles.
Dermoscopy is a noninvasive technique used for the preliminary assessment of skin lesions including neoplasms in humans and animals. Infundibular keratinising acanthoma (IKA) is a benign hair follicle neoplasm of dogs reported to represent 3.36% of all skin tumours; however, its dermoscopic features have not been investigated.The aim of this study was to describe and characterise the dermoscopic features of IKA and follicular cysts, highlighting their differential aspects and assessing the interobserver agreement of the dermoscopic parameters.Thirty-five lesions from 10 client-owned dogs, histologically diagnosed as IKA or follicular cysts, were included in this study.The dermoscopic images of the lesions at ×10 magnification were independently evaluated on a computer screen by two ECVD board-certified veterinary specialists and one ECVD resident.Twenty-six IKAs and nine follicular cysts were included. White structureless areas were frequently observed in IKAs (92%) and in follicular cysts (66%). Surface keratin (76%), blood spots (38%) and four-dot clods (7%) were exclusively observed in IKAs, while white lines were detected in 11% of IKAs and 22% of cysts. Blood vessels were observed in 15 of the 26 IKAs and in one of the nine cysts only. Near-perfect interobserver agreement for surface keratin (κ = 0.84) and good agreement for white lines (κ = 0.78), four-dot clods (κ = 0.65), linear irregular vessels (κ = 0.66) and blood spots (κ = 0.64) was found.Dermoscopy represents a useful technique to assess IKA and follicular cysts in dogs.© 2025 ESVD and ACVD.
Low-grade oncocytic tumor (LOT) of the kidney is an emerging entity among renal oncocytic tumors. While the histological features of LOT of the kidney are similar to those of renal oncocytoma, LOT immunohistochemically expresses keratin 7 (KRT7) but not KIT while renal oncocytoma expresses KIT. Molecular analyses of LOTs of the kidney using next generation sequencing revealed those tumors harbor mutations of mTOR-related genes.An 80-year-old Japanese man with a history of clear cell renal cell carcinoma and prostatic cancer underwent resection of the tumor of the right kidney, 10 mm in diameter, which was monitored for six years. The tumor was histologically composed of oncocytic cells that expressed KRT7, vimentin, SDHA, SDHB and fumarate hydratase, but not KIT, GATA3 and alpha-methylacyl-CoA racemase. We diagnosed the tumor as LOT of the kidney. Whole-exome sequencing of the LOT revealed single nucleotide variants in the DNA-binding region of forkhead box I1 (FOXI1), the coil 1B domain of keratin 6 C (KRT6C) and the intracytoplasmic region of gap junction delta 2 (GJD2), which encodes connexin 36. However, there was no mutations in mTOR-related genes. No copy number alterations were detected in the tumor.We report three mutations in genes that have not been previously reported in LOT of the kidney. The genes are not related to the mTOR pathway. Therefore, LOT of the kidney might occur through several mechanisms and/or include several types of renal oncocytic tumors.© 2025. The Author(s).
Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is one of the most common complications of diabetes and induces severe visual impairment worldwide. Endothelial cell dysfunction plays an important role in the pathogenesis of DR. Here, we keep a watchful eye on α/β-hydrolase domain-containing 1 (ABHD1), a potential regulator in lipid metabolism and neovascularization. Results revealed that ABHD1 expression increased both in retina tissues of DR patients and in high-glucose-treated human retina endothelial cells. Inhibition of ABHD1 remitted endothelial cell proliferation and migration. And GSEA uncovered that ABHD1 knockdown remits endothelial cell chemotaxis and intermediate filament (IF) might be mediated in the progress by regulating keratin 1 (KRT1) and keratin 2 (KRT2). Therefore, we assume that ABHD1 is concerned with endothelial cell proliferation and migration in DR, consequently leading to pathological neovascularization. The findings may provide a potential therapeutic target for DR.Copyright © 2024 Xinyi Liu et al.
Monilethrix is a rare hereditary hair disorder that is characterized by a beaded hair shaft structure and increased hair fragility. Patients may also present with keratosis pilaris and nail changes. Research has identified three genes responsible for autosomal dominant monilethrix (KRT81, KRT83, KRT86) and one responsible for the autosomal recessive form (DSG4).To investigate the genetic basis of autosomal dominant monilethrix in families with no pathogenic variants in any of the known monilethrix genes, and to understand the mechanistic basis of variant pathogenicity using a cellular model.Nine affected individuals from four unrelated families were included. A clinical diagnosis of monilethrix was assigned based on clinical examination and/or trichoscopy. Exome sequencing was performed in six individuals to identify pathogenic variants; Sanger sequencing was used for co-segregation and haplotype analyses. Cell culture experiments [immunoblotting, immunofluorescence and reverse transcription quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) analyses] were used to confirm variant pathogenicity, to determine the expression and subcellular localization of proteins, and to identify possible nonsense-mediated mRNA decay.In six affected individuals with clinically suggested monilethrix, exome sequencing led to the identification of the nonsense variant c.1081G>T; p.(Glu361*) in KRT31, which was subsequently identified in other affected members of these families by Sanger sequencing. This variant led to the abolition of both the last three amino acids of the 2B subdomain and the complete C-terminal tail domain of keratin 31. Immunoblotting demonstrated that when co-expressed with its binding partner keratin 85, the truncated keratin 31 was still expressed, albeit less abundantly than the wildtype protein. Immunofluorescence revealed that p.(Glu361*) keratin 31 had an altered cytoskeletal localization and formed vesicular-like structures in the cell cytoplasm near the cell membrane. RT-qPCR analysis did not generate evidence for nonsense-mediated decay of the mutant transcript.This study is the first to identify pathogenic variants in KRT31 as a cause of autosomal dominant monilethrix. This highlights the importance of hair keratin proteins in hair biology, and will increase the molecular diagnostic yield for rare ectodermal phenotypes of hair and nail tissues.© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of British Association of Dermatologists. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
To explore the biomechanical proteins different between low myopic corneas and moderate to high myopic corneas.A total of 27 myopic corneas were used for the Tandem Mass Tag (TMT) proteomics analysis. Differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were clustered with fold changes > 1.20 or < 0.83 and p < 0.05. Proteins and Proteins Interactions (PPIs) were conducted to find hub proteins; Uniprot database was to screen proteins with biomechanical functions, and Parallel Reaction Monitoring (PRM) was performed to verify the TMT results. Pearson analysis was used to reveal the correlations between myopic degrees and biomechanical proteins. The Immunofluorescence (IF) staining was used to observe the protein distributions.In total, 34 DEPs were observed between moderate myopic corneas and low myopic corneas; 103 DEPs were observed between high myopic corneas and low myopic corneas, 20 proteins overlapped. The PPIs analysis showed keratin 2, keratins 10 and PRSS1 were hub proteins. The Uniprot function analysis suggested keratin 2 and keratin 10 exhibited biomechanical functions. The PRM demonstrated keratin 2 and keratin 10 levels were significantly lower in moderate and high myopic corneas, which was consistent with the TMT proteomics results. IF staining also demonstrated keratin 2 and keratin 10 were less distributed in moderate and high myopic corneas than in low myopic corneas.The levels of biomechanical proteins keratin 2 and keratin 10 are significantly lower in moderate and high myopic corneas than in low myopic corneas.Copyright © 2024 British Contact Lens Association. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Epidermolytic palmoplantar keratoderma (EPPK), a highly penetrant autosomal dominant genodermatosis, is characterized by diffuse keratoses on palmplantar epidermis. The keratin 9 gene (KRT9) is responsible for EPPK. To date, phenotypic therapy is the primary treatment for EPPK. Because KRT9 pairs with a type II keratin-binding partner to function in epidermis, identifying the interaction partner is an essential first step in revealing EPPK pathogenesis and its fundamental treatment. In this study, we proved that keratin 6C (KRT6C) is a probable hereterodimer partner for KRT9. In silico model for KRT6C/KRT9 shows a typical coiled-coil structure in their 2B domains. Proteomics analysis shows that KRT6C/KRT9 pair is in a densely connected protein-protein interaction network, where proteins participate jointly in regulating cytoskeleton organization and keratinization. This study shows that co-immunoprecipitation coupled with mass spectroscopy and proteomics analysis provide a sensitive approach, which compensates for inevitable inadequacies of anti-keratin 6C antibody and helps discover the probable hereterodimer partner KRT6C for KRT9. The acknowledgement of KRT6C/KRT9 pairwise relationship may help re-classify EPPK and PC-K6c (a milder form of pachyonychia congenita, caused by KRT6C) as a group of hereditary defects at a molecular-based level, and lay foundation for deciphering the keratin network contributing to EPPK and PC-K6c. SIGNIFICANCE OF THE STUDY: What is already known about this topic? KRT9 and KRT6C are disease-causing factors for epidermolytic palmoplantar keratoderma (EPPK) and a milder form of pachyonychia congenita (PC-K6c), respectively. EPPK and PC-K6c have some symptom similarities. Keratins are the major structural proteins in epithelial cells. Each of the type I keratin is matched by a particular type II keratin to assemble a coiled-coil heterodimer. The hereterodimer partner for KRT9 is unknown. What does this study add? We discovered and proved that KRT6C is a probable hereterodimer partner for KRT9 in palmplantar epidermis in a native endogenous environment by using co-immunoprecipitation coupled with mass spectroscopy and proteomics analysis, etc. The proteomics analysis shows that KRT6C/KRT9 keratin pair is in a densely connected protein-protein interaction network, where proteins participate jointly in regulating intermediate filament-based cytoskeleton organization and keratinization processes. What are the implications of this work? The new understanding of probable KRT6C/KRT9 pairwise correlation may help re-classify the genetic cutaneous disorders EPPK and PC-K6c as a group of hereditary defects at a molecular-based level, and lay foundation for pathogenic mechanism research in EPPK and PC-K6c. The densely related network components derived from the proteomic data using Metascape in the study and pairwise regulation fashion of specific keratin pairs should attract more attention in the further explorations when investigators concern the physiological functions of keratins and the pathogenesis of related skin diseases.Copyright © 2023 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDA) of the head (hPDA) is more frequently diagnosed than PDA of the body/tail (btPDA) due to prevalent biliary obstruction symptoms, such as jaundice. hPDA is diagnosed and treated at an earlier stage than btPDA, leading to an improved prognosis. Data from 60 patients with PDA (30 patients with hPDA and 30 patients with btPDA) were analyzed, investigating tumor location (hPDA/btPDA) and clinical information [tumor size, lymph node metastasis, tumor stage and overall survival (OS)] depending on histological patterns [large duct pattern (PDA-L) and small duct pattern (PDA-S)], fibrotic focus (FF) and protein expression [GATA binding protein 6 (GATA6), cytokeratin 5/6, hepatocyte nuclear factor-1β (HNF1β), S100 calcium binding protein A4 (S-100A4), keratin 81 and transforming growth factor-β]. hPDA was significantly associated with tumor size, lymph node metastasis and more advanced stage. The worse OS was not related to tumor location, tumor size, lymph node metastasis or more advanced stage; however, GATA6 positivity was related to poor OS. Except for FF, PDA-L/PDA-S and immunostaining results were not associated with tumor location. PDA-L was related to S-100A4low, GATA6+ and HNF1β+. In the present study, tumor location did not influence tumor prognosis and histological pattern; otherwise, protein expression could influence PDA-L/PDA-S and OS. Therefore, histological classification may be useful in hPDA treatment.Copyright © 2025, Spandidos Publications.
The accessory protein Vpx from the red-capped mangabey or mandrill SIV (SIVrcm/mnd-2) lineage has been reported to increase HIV-1 infection in resting CD4+ T cells without affecting SAMHD1, a known target of Vpx in HIV-1 infection. This indicates that Vpx, in addition to SAMHD1, circumvents other restriction factors for lentiviruses. To identify potential restriction factors, this study examined cellular proteins interacting with Vpxrcm and found that keratin-72 (KRT72), an intermediate filament (IF) protein expressed in resting CD4+ T cells, is a host antiviral factor targeted by Vpx. Vpxrcm/mnd-2 lineages could strongly promote KRT72 degradation, resulting in increased HIV-1 infection in resting CD4+ T cells. We discovered that KRT72 restricts HIV-1 replication by sequestering incoming HIV-1 capsids in cytoplasmic IFs. With KRT72, the capsid cores of HIV-1 become attached to IFs, and their trafficking toward the nucleus is inhibited. In contrast, without KRT72, HIV-1 capsids are transported to the nucleus, leading to high levels of integrated HIV-1 DNA. Thus, KRT72 is a Vpx-counteracted antiviral factor that binds the incoming capsids to cytoplasmic IFs, restricting HIV-1 infection in resting CD4+ T cells.© 2025. The Author(s).
The perioperative period is crucial for determining postoperative tumor recurrence and metastasis. Various factors in postoperative lesions can diminish the therapeutic effect of conventional chemoradiotherapy, while emerging immunotherapy is restricted. The combination use of inflammatory inhibitors during treatment is also controversial. Here, a modular microneedle prepared from engineered keratin proteins is reported, which spatially and temporally differentiates the microenvironment of immune cell activation required for immunotherapy from that of wound healing. The recombinant keratin-84-T-based needle root layer, mainly retained in the epidermis, facilitated dendritic cell recruitment to achieve maximum antigen presentation of loaded vaccines. Meanwhile, the recombinant keratin-81-1Aα-based needle tip layer, located within the dermis, rapidly mitigated inflammatory responses while promoting tissue repair and regeneration. Unlike simply mixing immunotherapy and wound treatment, this spatiotemporal segmentation approach maximized the efficacy of immune therapeutics while promoting wound healing, making it suitable for application throughout the perioperative period.© 2025 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
YH0618, a medicinal and edible formulation, has demonstrated the potential to alleviate doxorubicin-induced alopecia in animal studies and clinical trials. However, the mechanisms underlying its therapeutic effects remain unexplored. The objective of this study was to ascertain possible therapeutic targets of YH0618 in the treatment of doxorubicin-induced alopecia. The assessment of hair loss was conducted through the measurement of the proportion of the affected area and the examination of skin histology. Isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification (iTRAQ) in quantitative proteomics was employed to discern proteins that exhibited variable expressions. The major proteins associated with doxorubicin-induced alopecia were identified using gene ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis. The interaction network of the differentially expressed proteins was constructed using the STRING database and the Python software. The study analyzed a total of 3894 proteins extracted from the skin tissue of mice. Doxorubicin treatment resulted in the upregulation of 18 distinct proteins, whereas one differential protein was found to be downregulated. The above effects were reinstated after the administration of the YH0618 therapy. The bioinformatic study revealed that the identified proteins exhibited enrichment in many biological processes, including staphylococcus aureus infection, estrogen signaling route, pyruvate metabolism, chemical carcinogenesis, and PPAR signaling pathway. The results of Western blot revealed that the levels of keratin 81 (Krt81), keratin 34 (Krt34), keratin 33a (Krt33a), and Sma and MAD-related protein 3 (Smad3) were upregulated in response to doxorubicin treatment, and were attenuated by the administration of YH0618. These four proteins are likely to correlate with DOX-induced alopecia and serve as promising therapeutic targets for YH0618. This work presents significant insights and empirical evidence for comprehending the process underlying chemotherapy-induced alopecia, paving the way for exploring innovative therapeutic or preventive strategies employing herbal items.© 2024 The Author(s).
Triple-negative breast Cancer (TNBC) is an aggressive subtype lacking estrogen, progesterone, and HER2 receptors. Known for limited targeted therapies, it poses challenges and requires personalized treatment strategies. Differential analysis revealed a significant decrease in keratin 81 (KRT81) expression in non-TNBC samples and an increase in TNBC samples, lower KRT81 expression correlated with better TNBC patient outcomes. It emerged as an independent predictive factor for TNBC, with associations found between its expression and clinically relevant features. We further developed a nomogram for survival probability assessment based on Cox regression results, demonstrating its accuracy through calibration curves. Gene annotation analysis indicated that KRT81 is involved in immune-related pathways and tumor cell adhesion. KRT81 is associated with immune cell infiltration of Follicular helper T cells (Tfh) and CD8 + T cells, suggesting its potential impact on the immunological microenvironment. The study delved into KRT81's predictive value for immunotherapy responses, high expression of KRT81 was associated with greater potential for immune evasion. Single-cell RNA sequencing analysis pinpointed KRT81 expression within a specific malignant subtype which was a risk factor for TNBC. Furthermore, KRT81 promoted TNBC cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and adhesion was confirmed by gene knockout or overexpression assay. Co-culture experiments further indicated KRT81's potential role in inhibiting CD8 + T cells, and correlation analysis implied KRT81 was highly correlated with immune checkpoint CD276, providing insights into its involvement in the immune microenvironment via CD276. In conclusion, this comprehensive study positions KRT81 as a promising prognostic marker for predicting tumor progression and immunotherapy responses in TNBC.
Despite recent advances in the treatment of metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC), treatment is inevitably hampered by the development of drug resistance. Thus, new drugs are urgently needed. We investigated the efficacy, toxicity, and mechanism of action of the marine triterpene glycoside cucumarioside A2-2 (CA2-2) using an in vitro CRPC model. CA2-2 induced a G2/M-phase cell cycle arrest in human prostate cancer PC-3 cells and caspase-dependent apoptosis executed via an intrinsic pathway. Additionally, the drug inhibited the formation and growth of CRPC cell colonies at low micromolar concentrations. A global proteome analysis performed using the 2D-PAGE technique, followed by MALDI-MS and bioinformatical evaluation, revealed alterations in the proteins involved in cellular processes such as metastatic potential, invasion, and apoptosis. Among others, the regulation of keratin 81, CrkII, IL-1β, and cathepsin B could be identified by our proteomics approach. The effects were validated on the protein level by a 2D Western blotting analysis. Our results demonstrate the promising anticancer activity of CA2-2 in a prostate cancer model and provide insights on the underlying mode of action.
Keratins are an integral part of cell structure and function. Here, it is shown that ectopic expression of a truncated isoform of keratin 81 (tKRT81) in breast cancer is upregulated in metastatic lesions compared to primary tumors and patient-derived circulating tumor cells, and is associated with more aggressive subtypes. tKRT81 physically interacts with keratin 18 (KRT18) and leads to changes in the cytosolic keratin intermediate filament network and desmosomal plaque formation. These structural changes are associated with a softer, more elastically deformable cancer cell with enhanced adhesion and clustering ability leading to greater in vivo lung metastatic burden. This work describes a novel biomechanical mechanism by which tKRT81 promotes metastasis, highlighting the importance of the biophysical characteristics of tumor cells.© 2023 The Authors. Advanced Science published by Wiley-VCH GmbH.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a complex, heterogeneous, progressive and long-term autoimmune disease characterized by symmetrical joint inflammation and bone erosion. The etiology of RA is unclear, but its pathogenesis is associated with oxidative stress and inflammatory cytokines. Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the microRNA (miRNA)-binding sites modify the development of rheumatic disease by regulating the expression of target genes. The present study investigated whether SNPs in the miRNA binding site in the 3' untranslated region (3'-UTR) of SET domain containing (lysine methyltransferase) 8 (SET8) and Keratin 81 (KRT81), namely rs16917496 and rs3660, respectively, were associated with the occurrence of RA. The polymerase chain reaction-ligase detection reaction assay showed that the distribution frequencies of the CC genotype (P=0.025) of SNP rs16917496 in SET8 were significantly higher in patients with RA than in healthy controls, which indicated that the CC genotype was associated with an increased risk of RA. SET8 expression in the blood samples of CC genotype carriers was lower than that of TT genotype carriers. Moreover, the CC genotype carriers exhibited higher reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels (1011.500±536.426 vs. 548.616±190.508, P=0.032) and lower interleukin-10 (IL-10) levels (P<0.001). The present study demonstrated that SNP rs16917496 in the 3'-UTR of SET8 was a predictor of RA risk and may regulate RA development by mediating expression of SET8, thereby regulating the levels of ROS and IL-10.Copyright © 2020, Spandidos Publications.
Keratin-associated proteins (KAPs) are a structural component of cashmere fibers and in part determine fiber attributes. The gene encoding the high-glycine/tyrosine KAP6-2 (called KRTAP6-2) has been described in sheep, but it has not been identified goats. In this study, a 252-bp open reading frame with similarity to ovine KRTAP6-2 was found on goat chromosome 1, with its upstream and downstream flanking sequences are closely related with ovine KRTAP6-2 but are clearly distinct from other ovine KRTAP6-n sequences. Polymerase chain reaction amplification followed by single strand conformation polymorphism analysis of this region revealed five distinct banding patterns representing five different sequences (A to E) in 230 Longdong cashmere goats. Eleven diallelic single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), a three-nucleotide sequence variation, and a 12-bp insertion/deletion were found among these five sequences, with most SNPs being either outside the coding region or synonymous. The presence of variant D was found to be associated with decreased mean fiber diameter (MFD; present: 13.26 ± 0.07 µm; absent: 13.55 ± 0.04 µm; p < 0.001), suggesting that variation in KRTAP6-2 may affect fiber diameter and have value as a molecular marker for improving the cashmere fiber diameter trait.
Keratins are key structural proteins found in skin and other epithelial tissues. Keratins also protect epithelial cells from damage or stress. Fifty-four human keratins were identified and classified into two families, type I and type II. Accumulating studies showed that keratin expression is highly tissue-specific and used as a diagnostic marker for human diseases. Notably, keratin 79 (KRT79) is type II cytokeratin that was identified as regulator of hair canal morphogenesis and regeneration in skin, but its role in liver remains unclear. KRT79 is undetectable in normal mouse but its expression is significantly increased by the PPARA agonist WY-14643 and fenofibrate, and completely abolished in Ppara-null mice. The Krt79 gene has functional PPARA binding element between exon 1 and exon 2. Hepatic Krt79 is regulated by HNF4A and HER2. Moreover, hepatic KRT79 is also significantly elevated by fasting- and high-fat diet-induced stress, and these increases are completely abolished in Ppara-null mice. These findings suggest that hepatic KRT79 is controlled by PPARA and is highly associated with liver damage. Thus, KRT79 may be considered as a diagnostic marker for human liver diseases.Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Objective: To explore the heterogeneity and growth factor regulatory network of dermal fibroblasts (dFbs) in mouse full-thickness skin defect wounds based on single-cell RNA sequencing. Methods: The experimental research methods were adopted. The normal skin tissue from 5 healthy 8-week-old male C57BL/6 mice (the same mouse age, sex, and strain below) was harvested, and the wound tissue of another 5 mice with full-thickness skin defect on the back was harvested on post injury day (PID) 7. The cell suspension was obtained by digesting the tissue with collagenase D and DNase Ⅰ, sequencing library was constructed using 10x Genomics platform, and single-cell RNA sequencing was performed by Illumina Novaseq6000 sequencer. The gene expression matrices of cells in the two kinds of tissue were obtained by analysis of Seurat 3.0 program of software R4.1.1, and two-dimensional tSNE plots classified by cell group, cell source, and gene labeling of major cells in skin were used for visual display. According to the existing literature and the CellMarker database searching, the expression of marker genes in the gene expression matrices of cells in the two kinds of tissue was analyzed, and each cell group was numbered and defined. The gene expression matrices and cell clustering information were introduced into CellChat 1.1.3 program of software R4.1.1 to analyze the intercellular communication in the two kinds of tissue and the intercellular communication involving vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), epidermal growth factor (EGF), and fibroblast growth factor (FGF) signal pathways in the wound tissue, the relative contribution of each pair of FGF subtypes and FGF receptor (FGFR) subtypes (hereinafter referred to as FGF ligand receptor pairs) to FGF signal network in the two kinds of tissue, and the intercellular communication in the signal pathway of FGF ligand receptor pairs with the top 2 relative contributions in the two kinds of tissue. The normal skin tissue from one healthy mouse was harvested, and the wound tissue of one mouse with full-thickness skin defect on the back was harvested on PID 7. The multiple immunofluorescence staining was performed to detect the expression and distribution of FGF7 protein and its co-localized expression with dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP4), stem cell antigen 1 (SCA1), smooth muscle actin (SMA), and PDGF receptor α (PDGFRα) protein. Results: Both the normal skin tissue of healthy mice and the wound tissue of full-thickness skin defected mice on PID 7 contained 25 cell groups, but the numbers of cells in each cell group between the two kinds of tissue were different. Genes PDGFRα, platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule 1, lymphatic endothelial hyaluronic acid receptor 1, receptor protein tyrosine phosphatase C, keratin 10, and keratin 79 all had distinct distributions on two-dimensional tSNE plots, indicating specific cell groups respectively. The 25 cell groups were numbered by C0-C24 and divided into 9 dFb subgroups and 16 non-dFb groups. dFb subgroups included C0 as interstitial progenitor cells, C5 as adipose precursor cells, and C13 as contractile muscle cells related fibroblasts, etc. Non-dFb group included C3 as neutrophils, C8 as T cells, and C18 as erythrocytes, etc. Compared with that of the normal skin tissue of healthy mice, the intercellular communication in the wound tissue of full-thickness skin defected mice on PID 7 was more and denser, and the top 3 cell groups in intercellular communication intensity were dFb subgroups C0, C1, and C2, of which all communicated with other cell groups in the wound tissue. In the wound tissue of full-thickness skin defected mice on PID 7, VEGF signals were mainly sent by the dFb subgroup C0 and received by vascular related cell groups C19 and C21, PDGF signals were mainly sent by peripheral cells C14 and received by multiple dFb subgroups, EGF signals were mainly sent by keratinocyte subgroups C9 and C11 and received by the dFb subgroup C0, and the main sender and receiver of FGF signals were the dFb subgroup C6. In the relative contribution rank of FGF ligand receptor pairs to FGF signal network in the normal skin tissue of healthy mice and the wound tissue of full-thickness skin defected mice on PID 7, FGF7-FGFR1 was the top 1, and FGF7-FGFR2 or FGF10-FGFR1 was in the second place, respectively; compared with those in the normal skin tissue, there was more intercellular communication in FGF7-FGFR1 signal pathway, while the intercellular communication in FGF7-FGFR2 and FGF10-FGFR1 signal pathways decreased slightly or did not change significantly in the wound tissue; the intercellular communication in FGF7-FGFR1 signal pathway in the wound tissue was stronger than that in FGF7-FGFR2 or FGF10-FGFR1 signal pathway; in the two kinds of tissue, FGF7 signal was mainly sent by dFb subgroups C0, C1, and C2, and received by dFb subgroups C6 and C7. Compared with that in the normal skin tissue of healthy mouse, the expression of FGF7 protein was higher in the wound tissue of full-thickness skin defected mouse on PID 7; in the normal skin tissue, FGF7 protein was mainly expressed in the skin interstitium and also expressed in the white adipose tissue near the dermis layer; in the two kinds of tissue, FGF7 protein was co-localized with DPP4 and SCA1 proteins and expressed in the skin interstitium, co-localized with PDGFRα protein and expressed in dFbs, but was not co-localized with SMA protein, with more co-localized expression of FGF7 in the wound tissue than that in the normal skin tissue. Conclusions: In the process of wound healing of mouse full-thickness skin defect wound, dFbs are highly heterogeneous, act as potential major secretory or receiving cell populations of a variety of growth factors, and have a close and complex relationship with the growth factor signal pathways. FGF7-FGFR1 signal pathway is the main FGF signal pathway in the process of wound healing, which targets and regulates multiple dFb subgroups.
CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein α (C/EBPα) is a transcription factor abundantly expressed in the liver and white adipose tissue (WAT). In this study, we investigated the mechanism by which C/EBPα regulates the lipase family member N (Lipn) gene in the mouse liver. Mouse Lipn consists of non-coding exon 1 and the translation start site located in exon 2. Lipn expression in the fatty liver of ob/ob mice was significantly higher than that in OB/OB mice and was significantly repressed by liver-specific C/EBPα deficiency. Lipn expression in ob/ob mice was detected in the liver, epididymal WAT (eWAT), subcutaneous WAT (sWAT), brown adipose tissue (BAT), and skeletal muscle, but not in the kidney, brain, and heart. Lipn expression in the liver, eWAT, and sWAT of wild-type mice was undetectable, although C/EBPα was highly expressed in these tissues. The database analysis revealed four putative C/EBP-responsive elements (CEBPREs), highly homologous with the typical CEBPRE consensus sequence at positions -2,686/-2,678, -1,364/-1,356, -106/-98, and -45/-37 from the transcription start site (+1) of Lipn. Reporter assays using reporter constructs with serial or internal deletions of the 5'-flanking regions of Lipn showed that two functional CEBPREs (-106/-98 and -45/-37) in the Lipn promoter region are essential for enhancing Lipn transcriptional activity by C/EBPα. Electrophoretic mobility shift assay showed that C/EBPα/β binds to CEBPRE (-106/-98). These results suggest that C/EBPα and type 2 diabetic environment may be required for hepatic Lipn expression.
Genodermatoses, such as heritable skin disorders, mostly represent Mendelian conditions. Congenital hypotrichosis (HY) characterize a condition of being born with less hair than normal. The purpose of this study was to characterize the clinicopathological phenotype of a breed-specific non-syndromic form of HY in Hereford cattle and to identify the causative genetic variant for this recessive disorder. Affected calves showed a very short, fine, wooly, kinky and curly coat over all parts of the body, with a major expression in the ears, the inner part of the limbs, and in the thoracic-abdominal region. Histopathology showed a severely altered morphology of the inner root sheath (IRS) of the hair follicle with abnormal Huxley and Henle's layers and severely dysplastic hair shafts. A genome-wide association study revealed an association signal on chromosome 5. Homozygosity mapping in a subset of cases refined the HY locus to a 690 kb critical interval encompassing a cluster of type II keratin encoding genes. Protein-coding exons of six positional candidate genes with known hair or hair follicle function were re-sequenced. This revealed a protein-changing variant in the KRT71 gene that encodes a type II keratin specifically expressed in the IRS of the hair follicle (c.281delTGTGCCCA; p.Met94AsnfsX14). Besides obvious phenocopies, a perfect concordance between the presence of this most likely pathogenic loss-of-function variant located in the head domain of KRT71 and the HY phenotype was found. This recessive KRT71-related form of hypotrichosis provides a novel large animal model for similar human conditions. The results have been incorporated in the Online Mendelian Inheritance in Animals (OMIA) database (OMIA 002114-9913).
The emergence of hair is a defining event during mammalian skin development, but the cellular mechanisms leading to the opening of the hair follicle canal remain poorly characterized. Our previous studies have shown that early hair buds possess a central column of differentiated keratinocytes expressing Keratin 79 (K79), which marks the future hair follicle opening. Here, we report that during late embryogenesis and early postnatal development, K79+ cells at the distal tips of these columns downregulate E-cadherin, change shape, recede and undergo cell death. These changes likely occur independently of sebaceous glands and the growing hair shaft, and serve to create an orifice for hair to subsequently emerge. Defects in this process may underlie phenomena such as ingrown hair or may potentially contribute to upper hair follicle pathologies including acne, hidradenitis suppurativa and infundibular cysts.© 2020 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The genetic basis for Tibetan sheep adaptation to different high-altitude environments remains unknown. This study conducted whole-genome resequencing on 80 Tibetan sheep individuals from four major distribution areas on the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau. Based on the high-quality single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) obtained, an analysis of population-level genomic selection signals was performed. Population genomic analysis revealed that Tibetan sheep distributed across China originated in northern China but showed evidence of gene flow from South Asian sheep. Between populations from extremely high-altitude and mid-altitude regions, selection analyses identified five strongly positive selected genes (HIF1AN [Hypoxia Inducible Factor 1 Alpha Subunit Inhibitor], HBE1 [Hemoglobin Subunit Epsilon 1], HBE2 [Hemoglobin Subunit Epsilon 2], TNFAIP3 [TNF Alpha Induced Protein 3], RAD50 [RAD50 Double Strand Break Repair Protein]). These genes are associated with adaptation to hypoxia and intense UV radiation in high-altitude environments. Selection analyses between populations from extremely high-altitude and mid-altitude regions identified five strongly selected genes (HIF1AN [Hypoxia Inducible Factor 1 Alpha Subunit Inhibitor], HBE1 [Hemoglobin Subunit Epsilon 1], HBE2 [Hemoglobin Subunit Epsilon 2], TNFAIP3 [TNF Alpha Induced Protein 3], RAD50 [RAD50 Double Strand Break Repair Protein]) associated with hypoxia and intense UV radiation in high-altitude environments. Comparative genomic analyses of populations in cold and arid environments identified several candidate genes related to energy and water homeostasis, as well as hair development (TP53 [Tumor Protein P53], ATG101 [Autophagy Related 101], ATP12A [ATPase H+/K+ Transporting Non-Gastric Alpha2 Subunit], KRT80 [Keratin 80], KRT7 [Keratin 7]). Additionally, Tibetan sheep in the high-altitude arid deserts exhibit stronger adaptive selection for energy homeostasis and water utilization; meanwhile, the HIF-1 [Hypoxia Inducible Factor 1] signaling pathway helps counteract oxidative stress induced by extreme water scarcity in the plateau environment. Our study supports the hypothesis that Tibetan sheep originated in northern China and identifies distinct adaptive features in the Tibetan sheep genome corresponding to their habitats.
This study aims to elucidate the mechanism of HZD in treating psoriasis and identify its active components through a comprehensive approach combining tandem mass tag (TMT)-based quantitative proteomics with machine learning and molecular docking analysis. An integrated strategy was employed, combining tandem mass tag (TMT)-based quantitative proteomics and machine learning to identify critical targets in an imiquimod (IMQ)-induced mouse model of psoriasis. Key findings were then experimentally validated using the human immortalized keratinocyte (HaCaT) cell model and HZD-treated mice through techniques including 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT), quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR), Western blot (WB), and immunofluorescence (IF). Furthermore, molecular docking and dynamics simulations were utilized to investigate interactions between HZD's bioactive components and the identified targets. Our findings demonstrate that HZD alleviates psoriasis primarily by inhibiting the Notch signaling pathway and upregulating keratin 77 (KRT77), thereby normalizing keratinocyte function. The identification of nuciferine as a key multi-target constituent, along with its structural analogs, provides a pharmacological basis for HZD's efficacy and reveals promising leads for novel psoriasis therapeutics.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Breast cancer (BC) is the most common type of female cancer with alarmingly high morbidity and mortality, especially metastatic BC (mBC).Our object is to explore a potential prognostic biomarker for mBC. The RNA-seq data of BC were downloaded from The Cancer Genome Atlas and Gene Expression Omnibus databases.The identification of candidate genes was achieved through the WGCNA, differentially expressed gene analysis and protein-protein interaction network. The prognostic predictive performance of the hub gene, Keratin 80 (KRT80), was evaluated through the Kaplan-Meier and multivariate Cox regression analysis. Validation of the expression of KRT80 in BC cell lines was carried out using qPCR and western blot experiments. The functional role of KRT80 in BC was further examined through loss- and gain-of-function assays in vitro.The results from the public database indicated a significant increase in KRT80 expression within the mBC group when compared to the primary BC group, and also heightened KRT80 levels were observed in BC tissues relative to the control group. Meanwhile, ROC curve analysis demonstrated the potential diagnostic potential of KRT80 for mBC. Notably, elevated KRT80 levels were found to be an independent predictor of unfavorable prognosis for BC patients. GSEA analysis demonstrated the involvement of KRT80 in NF-kappa B signaling pathway. Furthermore, the results of immune cell infiltration analysis revealed a marked negative correlation between KRT80 expression and CD8 T cells, activated NK cells. Drug sensitivity analysis showed that patients with high expression of KRT80 may exhibit increased sensitivity to Lapatinib. Functionally, overexpression of KRT80 facilitated the viability, migration, invasion and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in BT549 cells, a metastatic BC cell line.Collectively, KRT80 may be linked with metastasis of BC, and it may serve as a potential therapeutic target for mBC treatment.© 2025. The Author(s).
The prognosis and clinical treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), one of the most prevalent malignant tumors, remains significantly challenging, underscoring the urgent need for novel biomarkers and therapeutic strategies to improve patient outcomes. Our study investigated the clinical significance and biological functions of glucosylceramidase beta 3 (GBA3) in HCC progression.GBA3 expression was analyzed in 39 paired HCC and adjacent non-tumor tissues, validated in The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) dataset, and further confirmed via immunohistochemistry (IHC) in 90 additional paired specimens. The connection between GBA3 expression and clinical outcomes was analyzed through use of TCGA data and Kaplan-Meier survival analysis. The functional roles of GBA3 were examined through knockdown experiments in HCC cells, with proliferation, migration, and invasion being evaluated. Mechanistic studies were conducted to clarify the link between GBA3 downregulation and ceramide metabolism via ceramide synthase 3 (CerS3).The expression of GBA3 messenger RNA (mRNA) and protein were significantly downregulated in HCC tissues as compared to non-tumor tissues. Low GBA3 expression correlated with advanced HCC and shorter patient survival. Functional assays demonstrated that GBA3 knockdown enhanced HCC cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. Mechanistically, GBA3 downregulation reduced CerS3 expression, disrupting ceramide metabolism and promoting HCC progression.GBA3 downregulation in HCC is related to the aggressive behavior and poor prognosis, indicating its potential as a sphingolipid metabolism-related prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target for HCC.Copyright © 2025 AME Publishing Company. All rights reserved.
Ceramide metabolism dysregulation links to colorectal cancer (CRC) progression, yet the mechanism remains unknown. d18:1/26:0 ceramide (C26) levels were elevated in patients with CRC and mouse models, which activated epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) by binding its extracellular region to promote cancer cell proliferation. The rise of C26 levels was mainly driven by heightened ceramide synthase 3 (CERS3) activity. High CERS3 expression generally accelerated tumor progression, yet some patients exhibited significant heterogeneity, suggesting endogenous metabolites available to affect CERS3 activity. We found that the abundance of Bacteroides cellulosilyticus affects tumor heterogeneity by producing riboflavin that inhibits CERS3 activity, thus delaying CRC progression. Moreover, aclidinium bromide, an FDA-approved drug, exhibited significant inhibitory effects on CERS3 activity, suggesting its potential application in CRC treatment. These findings elucidate the metabolic pathways and mechanisms underlying ceramide's impact on CRC, highlighting that targeting CERS3 inhibition represents a promising therapeutic strategy for CRC.Published by Elsevier Inc.
The lipid composition of the epidermis plays a critical role in the skin's barrier function, and defects in lipid synthesis or assembly can cause a spectrum of skin diseases, ranging from dry skin to severe ichthyoses. The aim of this study was to develop an in vitro model of human skin with tunable inhibition of lipid synthesis. Human N/TERT keratinocytes were engineered to express doxycycline-inducible short hairpin RNAs targeting ceramide synthase 3, which is essential for synthesis of ultralong-chain ceramides and skin barrier function. We show that 3-dimensional human skin equivalents with induced knockdown of ceramide synthase 3 display normal stratification and terminal differentiation but have reduced Nile red staining for polar lipids. Further analysis of the lipidome by mass spectrometry confirmed a significant reduction in specific classes of ceramides and ceramide chain length in the ceramide synthase 3-depleted human skin equivalents. We also show that ceramide synthase 3 knockdown is reversible upon removal of doxycycline and can be used to study recovery and repair of epidermal lipids. Together, these findings provide an overall strategy for genetically regulating the lipid composition within human skin models and establish a tunable in vitro model of ceramide deficiency.© 2025 The Authors.
To investigate the expression of KRT80 in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients and its relationship with clinicopathological factors, prognosis, as well as the differences in KRT80 expression between Xuanwei area and Non-xuanwei area, lung adenocarcinoma and lung squamous cell carcinoma. Based on 178 clinical cases, immunohistochemical methods combined with public databases were used to examine the expression of KRT80 in NSCLC patients and analyze its correlation with various clinicopathological factors and prognosis. The study confirmed the up-regulation of KRT80 expression in NSCLC cancer tissues. Significant regional specific and histological subtype differences in KRT80 expression were revealed. Although the expression level of KRT80 has no direct significant correlation with the prognosis of NSCLC patients, it has a good ability to distinguish cancerous tissue from paracancer tissue. KRT80 can be used as a diagnostic biomarker for NSCLC patients, but its specific mechanism and clinical application value still need to be further explored.© 2025. The Author(s).
Keratin 80 (KRT80), a type I intermediate filament protein, is a member of the keratin family with specialized functions in epithelial tissues. While KRT80 has been implicated in both normal physiological processes and various diseases, its role in gastric cancer (GC), particularly its expression and prognostic significance, remains poorly understood. In this study, we investigated the role and underlying molecular mechanisms of KRT80 in oxaliplatin resistance in GC. Our analysis revealed that KRT80 is significantly upregulated in GC tissues and is associated with poor clinical prognosis. The role of KRT80 in GC cell proliferation was assessed through in vitro and in vivo assays.To explore the expression of KRT80 in GC and its impact on the prognosis of patients.KRT80 expression in GC tissues was analyzed using Western blotting, quantitative reverse transcription PCR, multiple immunofluorescence staining, and immunohistochemistry. Survival analysis was conducted using the Kaplan-Meier method with the log-rank test. The role of KRT80 in GC cell proliferation was assessed through in vitro and in vivo assays. Immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometry analyses identified elongation factor 1-alpha 1 (EEF1A1) as a binding protein of KRT80.Integrating our experimental findings with multiple published studies, we found that increased KRT80 expression is associated with poor prognosis in GC and promotes resistance to oxaliplatin. Moreover, we have preliminarily verified the interaction between KRT80 and EEF1A1. Therefore, this study provides a novel perspective on overcoming oxaliplatin resistance in GC.Increased KRT80 expression predicts poor prognosis and promotes oxaliplatin resistance in GC, suggesting its potential as a novel prognostic biomarker.©The Author(s) 2025. Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights reserved.
Stage II-III colorectal cancer (CRC) represents the initial phase of tumor invasion and lymph node metastasis. Surgery is the preferred treatment option for patients at this stage, however, due to the complex progression mechanisms of the disease, incomplete tumor resection, postoperative cancer cell metastasis, and the development of drug resistance to chemotherapy often lead to poor prognosis. The present study aimed to investigate the status of poor postoperative prognosis in patients with stage II-III CRC following radical surgery, analyze the impact of preoperative albumin-hemoglobin (ALB-Hb) score and serum microRNA-497-5p (miR-497-5p) levels on adverse outcomes and develop a predictive model for poor prognosis. Baseline data of 154 patients with stage II-III CRC treated at Tianjin Haihe Hospital (Tianjin, China) or Guangzhou First People's Hospital (Guangzhou, China) between December 2021 and December 2024 were retrospectively selected. Patients were stratified into the poor and good prognosis groups based on clinical outcomes. Univariate analysis was performed on baseline characteristics and laboratory parameters. Variables demonstrating notable differences were subsequently evaluated for multicollinearity. Factors without collinearity were incorporated into a Cox proportional hazards regression model to identify determinants of postoperative prognosis in patients treated with radical resection. These predictors were then used to construct a prognostic nomogram, with model accuracy verified through calibration curves. Among the 154 patients with stage II-III CRC, 63 cases (40.91%) had poor prognosis and 91 cases (59.09%) had good prognosis. Univariate and collinearity analyses revealed marked differences in preoperative levels of miR-497-5p, Kallikrein-related peptidase 5 (KLK5), angiopoietin-2 (Ang-2) and ALB-Hb scores, with no collinearity observed (P<0.05; variation inflation factor ≤10; tolerance ≥0.1). Cox proportional hazards regression model demonstrated that all these indicators were independent factors influencing poor prognosis following radical surgery in patients with stage II-III CRC (all P<0.05). Based on these findings, a nomogram was constructed and calibration curves closely approximated the ideal curve. Preoperative ALB, Hb, miR-497-5p, KLK5, Ang-2 levels and ALB-Hb scores were notable prognostic factors for patients with stage II-III CRC following radical resection, demonstrating high predictive value for poor postoperative outcomes. The present study provided clinically relevant indicators to screen high-risk patients with potential poor prognosis following radical surgery for stages II-III CRC.Copyright © 2025, Spandidos Publications.
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), a prevalent endocrine and metabolic condition during women's reproductive age, is acknowledged as a significant contributory factor for several metabolic disorders. Despite its high prevalence, specific pharmacological interventions for PCOS remain limited. GeGen Decoction (GGD), documented since the Han Dynasty, has been continuously explored for its modern applications. Currently, it is frequently utilized to treat gynecological and metabolic disorders, including PCOS. Our study applied in vivo models utilizing dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA)-induced PCOS rats and in vitro models employing dihydrotestosterone (DHT) combined with palmitic acid (PA) and oleic acid (OA) to induce KGN cells, to confirm the effects of GGD on PCOS and to explore the mechanism of action. Our findings demonstrated that GGD effectively alleviated PCOS symptoms in rat models by improving estrous cycles, restoring ovarian morphology, regulating hormone levels, and ameliorating glucose and lipid metabolism disorders. Mechanistically, GGD maintained cholesterol homeostasis by modulating the interaction between sterol O-acyltransferase 2 (ACAT2) and insulin-induced gene 1 (INSIG1), thereby enhancing the intracellular environment of KGN cells, promoting the expression of cytochrome P450 family 19 subfamily A member 1 (CYP19A1), and subsequently mitigating PCOS-related symptoms. Our data indicate that GGD may serve as a potential therapeutic agent for PCOS.© 2025 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Late-Onset Hypogonadism (LOH) is a prevalent age-related condition in men, characterized by a decline in testosterone (T) and associated symptoms.This study explored the mechanism of T deficiency in LOH.Male SD rats were raised until 20 months of age in order to establish the LOH models. The hormone level and sperm quality were examined. The behavior experiments were carried out to assess whether LOH rats had anxiety and cognitive dysfunction. RNA-seq was used to explore the differential gene in the testis of LOH rats, revealing the molecular mechanism of LOH.LOH rats exhibited cognitive impairment and anxiety. The sperm quality was decreased, and dysfunction of the Hypothalamic-Pituitary-Gonadal (HPG) axis was observed in LOH rats. Testosterone biosynthesis enzymes (including StAR, Cyp17A1, and HSD17β) were suppressed, reducing T levels. RNA-seq revealed that cholesterol metabolism and steroid hormone biosynthesis were abnormal. The expression of Sterol O-Acyltransferase 2 (SOAT2) was upregulated in the Leydig cells in the testes of LOH rats. Meanwhile, the testicular Cholesterol Ester (CE) increased, and Free Cholesterol (FC) decreased in the LOH rats.These results indicated that upregulation of SOAT2 decreased FC and increased CE, which led to testosterone deficiency and further affected spermatogenesis and the HPG axis.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a deadly malignancy known for its ability to evade immune surveillance. NOP2/Sun RNA methyltransferase family member 2 (NSUN2), an RNA methyltransferase involved in carcinogenesis, has been associated with immune evasion and energy metabolism reprogramming. This study aimed to examine the molecular mechanisms underlying the involvement of NSUN2 in immune evasion and metabolic reprogramming of HCC.Single-cell transcriptomic sequencing was applied to examine cellular composition changes, particularly immune cell dynamics, in HCC and adjacent normal tissues. Bulk RNA-seq and proteomics identified key genes and proteins. Methylation sequencing and methylated RNA immunoprecipitation (MeRIP) were carried out to characterize the role of NSUN2 in 5-methylcytosine (m5C) modification of sterol O-acyltransferase 2 (SOAT2). Clinical samples from 30 HCC patients were analyzed using reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction and Western blotting. Gene expression was manipulated using CRISPR/Cas9 and lentiviral vectors. In vitro co-culture models and metabolomics were used to study HCC cell-T cell interactions, energy metabolism, and immune evasion. Tumor growth in an orthotopic mouse model was monitored by bioluminescence imaging, with subsequent measurements of tumor weight, volume, and immunohistochemical staining.Single-cell transcriptomic analysis identified a marked increase in malignant cells in HCC tissues. Cell communication analysis indicated that tumor cells might promote cancer progression by evading immune clearance. Multi-omics analyses identified NSUN2 as a key regulator in HCC development. MeRIP confirmed that NSUN2 facilitated the m5C modification of SOAT2. Analysis of human HCC tissue samples demonstrated pronounced upregulation of NSUN2 and SOAT2, along with elevated m5C levels in HCC tissues. In vitro experiments uncovered that NSUN2 augmented the reprogramming of energy metabolism and repressed the activity and cytotoxicity of CD8+ T cells, contributing to immune evasion. In vivo studies further substantiated the role of NSUN2 in fostering immune evasion and tumor formation of HCC by modulating the m5C modification of SOAT2.The findings highlight the critical role of NSUN2 in driving HCC progression through the regulation of m5C modification on SOAT2. These findings present potential molecular markers for HCC diagnosis and therapeutic targets for its treatment.© 2025 The Author(s). Cancer Communications published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd. on behalf of Sun Yat‐sen University Cancer Center.
Chronic inflammation, immune cell infiltration, and metabolic reprogramming play a crucial role in the development of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). Based on the summary-level data from a genome-wide association study (GWAS), this study used Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis to investigate the causal relationship between immune cell phenotype and HNSCC. Two-step MR was employed to quantify the proportion of the effect of metabolite-mediated immunophenotypes on HNSCC. 16 immune phenotypes exhibited a causal relationship with HNSCC. HLA DR + CD4 + AC (OR: 1.31, 95% CI 1.07-1.59, P < 0.01) and EM CD8br AC cells (OR: 1.36, 95% CI 1.14-1.62, P < 0.01) showed the most significant P values. 13 metabolites have a causal relationship with HNSCC (P < 0.05). The proportion of the effect of Bilirubin degradation product, C16H18N2O5 (3) levels-mediated HLA DR + CD4 + AC on HNSCC was 7.17% (95% CI 1.04%-13.3%), while the proportion of the effect of Glutamine to alanine ratio-mediated EM CD8br AC on HNSCC was 8.88% (95% CI 2.2%-15.6%). Moreover, single-cell RNA-sequencing analysis confirmed that HLA DR + CD4 + AC and EM CD8br AC cells were commonly present in the HNSCC tumor microenvironment (TME). High expression of two immune phenotypes indicated a poorer prognosis. The results of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) analysis and functional enrichment indicated that Interferon-induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats 1 (IFIT1)/Follicular dendritic cell secreted protein (FDCSP) and Keratin 19 type I (KRT19)/Kallikrein-related peptidase 5 (KLK5) may be responsible genes for two immune phenotypes, respectively. The results of quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and survival analysis showed that FDCSP was significantly downregulated in HNSCC and could exert a protective effect. Collectively, our study clarified the causal relationship between immune cells, metabolites, and HNSCC, providing new insight for clinical diagnosis and treatment of HNSCC.© 2025. The Author(s).
Immune functions decline with aging, leading to increased susceptibility to various diseases including tumors. Exploring aging-related molecular targets in elderly patients with cancer is thus highly sought after. Here we find that an ER transmembrane enzyme, sterol O-acyltransferase 2 (SOAT2), is overexpressed in regulatory T (Treg) cells from elderly patients with lung squamous cell carcinoma (LSCC), while radiomics analysis of LSCC patients associates increased SOAT2 expression with reduced immune infiltration and poor prognosis. Mechanically, ex vivo human and mouse Treg cell data and in vivo mouse tumor models suggest that SOAT2 overexpression in Treg cells promotes cholesterol metabolism by activating the SREBP2-HMGCR-GGPP pathway, leading to enhanced Treg suppresser functions but reduced CD8+ T cell proliferation, migration, homeostasis and anti-tumor immunity. Our study thus identifies a potential mechanism responsible for altered Treg function in the context of immune aging, and also implicates SOAT2 as a potential target for tumor immunotherapy.© 2025. The Author(s).
Pancreatitis is a severe inflammatory condition characterized by damage to the pancreas. Sterol o-acyltransferase 2 (SOAT2) has been reported to aggravate acute pancreatitis, however, the underlying mechanism remains to be elucidated. Rat pancreatic exocrine cells (AR42J) were treated with caerulein to induce pancreatitis-like cellular injury. Cell viability was determined using a cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) assay, while cell proliferation was analyzed through a 5-Ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine assay. Cell apoptosis was measured using flow cytometry, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays were performed to detect levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-6 and TNF-α. Additionally, Fe2+ levels were analyzed using a colorimetric assay kit, reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels were assessed with a Cellular ROS Assay kit, and lipid peroxidation was measured using a malondialdehyde assay kit. Glutathione levels were analyzed with a detection assay. Protein and mRNA expression were evaluated through western blotting and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, respectively. Furthermore, an RNA immunoprecipitation assay was conducted to investigate the association between ELAV-like RNA binding protein 1 (ELAVL1) and SOAT2. Actinomycin D assay was performed to explore the effect of ELAVL1 depletion on the transcript stability of SOAT2 mRNA. SOAT2 and ELAVL1 expression were upregulated in caerulein-exposed AR42J cells. Caerulein treatment induced pancreatitis-like cellular apoptosis, inflammatory response, ferroptosis, and cell proliferation inhibition. Silencing of SOAT2 protected against caerulein-induced AR42J cell injury. Moreover, ELAVL1 stabilized SOAT2 mRNA expression in AR42J cells. SOAT2 overexpression attenuated the effects induced by ELAVL1 silencing in caerulein-exposed AR42J cells. Additionally, ELAVL1 knockdown activated the NRF2/HO-1 pathway by downregulating SOAT2 expression in caerulein-exposed AR42J cells. SOAT2 silencing protected AR42J cells from caerulein-induced injury by inactivating the NRF2 pathway. In conclusion, ELAVL1-dependent SOAT2 exacerbated pancreatic exocrine cell injury by inactivating the NRF2/HO-1 pathway in pancreatitis. These findings provide new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying pancreatitis and offer potential therapeutic targets for the treatment of this condition.© 2024 The Author(s). The Kaohsiung Journal of Medical Sciences published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Kaohsiung Medical University.
Skeletal muscle loss is associated with cognitive decline, but whether neuroimaging-derived muscle characteristics predict incident dementia remains unclear.We evaluated associations of deep learning-derived temporalis muscle (TM) cross-sectional area (CSA) and radiomic texture features from baseline T1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with incident dementia in dementia-free participants from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) (n = 750) and the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) study (n = 532). TM was segmented using a convolutional neural network trained in ADNI and externally validated in ARIC. Radiomic features were reduced using least absolute shrinkage and selection operator-penalized Cox models to generate a composite score. Multivariable Cox regression adjusted for demographics, apolipoprotein E ε4, baseline cognition, body mass index, and physical performance.Higher TM radiomic scores were associated with increased dementia risk in ADNI (hazard ratio per SD, 1.32) and ARIC (1.64). Smaller TM CSA predicted dementia in ADNI but not ARIC.TM texture patterns from routine brain MRI are associated with dementia risk, supporting TM phenotyping as a scalable marker of systemic biological vulnerability.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42559224 is a review article
Distraction osteogenesis (DO) is a surgical technique used to repair skeletal defects by promoting bone and soft tissue regeneration. However, prolonged use of external fixators often causes complications such as infections and joint contractures. Neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) enhances osteoblast differentiation via bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2) and Akt signaling and may also modulate the Wnt/β-catenin pathway. In this study, we investigated the role of NT-3 in bone regeneration during DO. A DO model was established in 9-week-old male ICR mice, in which tibiae were osteotomized and stabilized with external fixators under anesthesia. After a 5-day latency period, distraction was performed at 0.2 mm every 12 hours for 8 days. RNA was extracted at defined time points post-osteotomy for quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) analysis, and NT-3 was administered post-distraction. Bone regeneration was evaluated by radiographic, histological, and biomechanical analyses. The effects of NT-3 and Dickkopf-1 were further examined in ST2 bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells. NT-3 significantly enhanced bone formation, increased bone mineral density within the DO gap, and improved the mechanical stiffness of regenerated bone. Histological examination revealed earlier bone continuity and greater callus formation in the NT-3 group. Gene expression analysis demonstrated upregulation of Wnt/β-catenin pathway components, including Wnt10b, β-catenin, and low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 5 (LRP5). In ST2 cells, NT3 increased the expression of LRP5, LRP6, β-catenin, and Runx2, while cotreatment with Dickkopf1 abolished these effects. These findings suggest that NT-3 promotes bone regeneration during DO by activating the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway, highlighting its therapeutic potential to improve DO outcomes.
The apolipoprotein E (APOE) +4 allele is a major genetic risk factor for mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and is associated with hippocampal dysfunction. However, its effects on hippocampal subregional functional connectivity (FC) and clinical manifestations in MCI patients with subsyndromal depression (MCID) remain unclear.In this study, 88 patients with MCID were stratified into APOE+4 homozygotes (n = 12), heterozygotes (n = 31), and non-carriers (n = 45). Resting-state FC of the dorsal (dHIP) and ventral hippocampus (vHIP) was examined. Mediation analyses were conducted to investigate the effect of neurological biomarkers on APOE +4 gene dose, depressive symptoms with cognitive function in MCID.Compared with non-carriers, APOE +4 homozygotes showed decreased FC between the left vHIP and the left inferior temporal gyrus and right precentral gyrus, while heterozygotes showed decreased FC between the left vHIP and the right middle frontal gyrus and left cerebellum. In addition, APOE +4 homozygotes exhibited a gene dose-dependent reduction in FC between the vHIP and the left postcentral gyrus (PoCG) compared with heterozygotes. Importantly, vHIP-PoCG FC mediated the relationship between depressive symptoms and cognitive impairment, and between APOE +4 gene dose and cognitive impairment in MCID patients.These findings suggest that reduced vHIP-PoCG FC may represent a candidate neuroimaging correlate in MCID and may underlie APOE +4-related vulnerability to depressive and cognitive symptoms. Moreover, the mediating effect of vHIP-PoCG FC may partly account for the association among APOE +4 gene dose, depressive symptoms, and cognitive impairment in MCID.Copyright © 2026 Du, Li, Wen, Du and Jiang.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42556482 is a review article
To investigate the association between apolipoprotein E (APOE) gene polymorphisms and coronary heart disease (CHD) risk within a localized Mongolian clinical cohort.This hospital-based case-control study recruited 63 patients with angiographically confirmed CHD and 61 sex-matched healthy controls. Anthropometric measurements and lipid profiles and pathways for APOE genotypes were strictly assessed. This exploratory hospital-based case-control study was not designed as a nationally representative population-based survey, and participant recruitment was limited to a single tertiary referral center in Mongolia.High-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels were significantly higher in the case group than in the control group (1.56 ± 0.14 vs. 1.33 ± 0.18 mmol/L, P < .001), while total cholesterol was significantly lower in cases than in controls (3.91 ± 0.60 vs. 5.34 ± 0.80 mmol/L, P < .001). The distribution of APOE genotypes (ε2/ε3, ε3/ε3, ε3/ε4, and ε4/ε4) differed significantly between the case and control groups (P = .009). Both systolic and diastolic blood pressure significantly correlated with waist circumference (P = .026). Multivariable logistic regression revealed that the ε2/ε3 genotype was associated with significantly lower odds of disease (odds ratio [OR] = 0.29, P = .007, 95% CI: 0.12-0.71), whereas ε4-related findings were highly imprecise due to sparse genotype counts and lacked statistical significance (OR = 1.07, P = .930, 95% CI: 0.23-5.02).This study showed a significant association between the APOE genotype and CHD in a Mongolian population. These findings highlight the importance of considering qualitative aspects of lipid metabolism, rather than total cholesterol alone, and suggest that genetic factors, including APOE polymorphisms, may contribute to CHD risk independently of absolute cholesterol levels, underscoring the need for population-specific cardiovascular risk assessment.
Measured low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) includes cholesterol carried by lipoprotein(a) [Lp(a)-C]. Formula-based approaches are used to estimate Lp(a)-C and derive LDL-C corrected for Lp(a)-C (LDL-Ccorr) but rely on fixed compositional assumptions that may not reflect Lp(a) heterogeneity.To compare direct measurement of Lp(a)-C with formula-based approaches for estimating Lp(a)-C and corrected LDL-C across a wide range of Lp(a) concentrations.We compared directly measured Lp(a)-C using an immunocapture-based assay (Direct Lp(a)-C) with 2 commonly used formula-based approaches (Rosenson-Marcovina [RM] and Dahlén [D]) in 2 independent cohorts spanning a broad range of Lp(a) concentrations: an elevated Lp(a) cohort (n = 278) in stable subjects and a community-based cohort (n = 94). LDL-Ccorr was calculated by subtracting Lp(a)-C from measured LDL-C using a direct assay. Apolipoprotein(a) [apo(a)] isoform size was determined in the community cohort.In the elevated Lp(a) cohort (mean Lp(a) 250.8 nmol/L), Direct Lp(a)-C was 14.9 ± 6.0 mg/dL vs 19.3 ± 8.3 mg/dL and 35.4 ± 14.8 mg/dL using RM and D methods (P < .001). Corresponding LDL-Ccorr values were 62.6 ± 30.9 mg/dL (direct), 58.2 ± 33.0 mg/dL, and 42.5 ± 34.7 mg/dL (P < .001). Formula-based correction produced negative LDL-Ccorr values in up to 6.1% of participants. Across increasing Lp(a) strata, apolipoprotein B and measured LDL-C were stable, whereas formula-derived LDL-Ccorr declined significantly. Discordance increased with higher Lp(a)-C and was greatest among individuals with smaller apo(a) isoforms.Fixed-assumption formula-based correction overestimates Lp(a)-C and underestimates LDL-derived cholesterol, particularly at elevated Lp(a) levels and across apo(a) isoform sizes. In the era of ultralow LDL-C targets, this systematic bias may influence LDL goal attainment. Direct measurement of Lp(a)-C provides an assay-based approach to assess LDL-derived cholesterol in elevated Lp(a).Copyright © 2026 National Lipid Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Despite advances in managing traditional cardiovascular risk factors and promoting healthy lifestyles, recurrence of cardiovascular events remains high in patients with established coronary heart disease. Daytime napping, or siesta, has been associated with potential health benefits, but evidence in this population is still limited. This study aimed to evaluate associations between siesta habit and cardiometabolic health over a seven-year follow-up in patients with coronary heart disease from the CORDIOPREV study (NCT00924937).A total of 872 participants from the CORDIOPREV study were included with sufficient information collected throughout the 7-year follow-up to evaluate the siesta habit. The participants were stratified as "non-nappers", "short nappers" (≤30 min), and "long nappers" (>30 min). Blood pressure, anthropometric measures, and biological samples were taken at baseline and during yearly visits. Linear mixed models were performed to assess the evolution of cardiometabolic parameter over the follow-up.Habitual short nappers showed lower weight, body mass index, and abdominal circumference, as well as lower fasting glucose, glycated hemoglobin, HOMA-IR, apolipoprotein B and triglyceride levels throughout the seven-year follow-up period with the most consistent differences observed in comparison with long nappers (p < 0.05). Stratified analyses by baseline diabetes status revealed in individuals without diabetes showed more favorable anthropometric measures than long nappers while within those with diabetes, short nappers showed more favorable glucose metabolism and triglyceride levels than long nappers.Short siesta habit (≤30 min) was associated with a more favorable cardiometabolic profile in patients with CHD. Further studies are needed to assess its potential clinical relevance.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Familial chylomicronemia syndrome (FCS) is a rare autosomal recessive disease caused by a biallelic loss-of-function mutation in the lipoprotein lipase (LPL) gene or its cofactors. This case report describes the diagnosis, management, and one-year follow-up of an infant with FCS. The patient presented in early infancy with severe hypertriglyceridemia. Diagnosis was confirmed by genetic testing, which revealed a compound heterozygous mutation in the LPL gene. Management centered on a strict low-fat diet with medium-chain triglyceride (MCT) supplementation. Over a one-year follow-up period, significant improvements in triglyceride levels and catch-up growth were observed, highlighting the critical importance of early diagnosis and dietary intervention.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical Case Reports published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42540576
Atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) remains the leading cause of death in China. Elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) is a major, modifiable cardiovascular disease and mortality risk factor, but many patients fail to achieve guideline-recommended lipid goals. Although inclisiran provides sustained and effective LDL-C reductions alone or when combined with lipid-lowering therapies (LLTs), its effectiveness as monotherapy has not been investigated in patients from China.To evaluate the efficacy and safety of inclisiran monotherapy in Chinese adults with low/moderate ASCVD risk and elevated LDL-C not receiving LLT.VICTORION-Mono China (NCT05888103) was a phase 3, multicenter, randomized trial, comprising a double-blind, placebo-controlled, 6-month treatment period, and a 6-month open-label extension period. The primary endpoint was the percentage change in LDL-C from baseline to Day 150. Other lipid biomarkers and safety were also assessed.In 207 randomized patients, inclisiran significantly reduced LDL-C vs placebo on Day 150 (least square mean [LSM] difference: -47.50%; P < .0001), with reductions sustained through Day 360. Furthermore, on Day 150, inclisiran induced a significant (P < .0001) reduction in other atherogenic lipoproteins and lipid biomarkers (placebo-adjusted LSM difference: lipoprotein(a), -30.27%; nonhigh-density lipoprotein cholesterol, -40.57%; apolipoprotein B, -36.84%). Inclisiran was well-tolerated; the most common drug-related treatment-emergent adverse events were mild hepatic enzyme elevations, injection-site reactions, and nausea.Inclisiran monotherapy provided sustained and effective LDL-C reductions with a favorable safety profile in Chinese adults with low/moderate ASCVD risk. These findings align with previous observations in statin-treated patients, supporting inclisiran monotherapy as a potential LDL-C-lowering option for Chinese patients.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Infection with Pseudorabies virus (PRV) triggers a state of oxidative distress in host cells, which consequently results in cellular damage. Although the normal butanol fraction of flavonoids derived from Polygonum hydropiper L. (FNB) is recognized for its strong antioxidant properties, it remains unclear whether FNB can mitigate PRV-induced oxidative damage and whether this protective effect involves long non-coding RNA (lncRNA)-mediated regulation during PRV infection. This study aimed to investigate the protective effect of FNB against oxidative stress in PRV-infected porcine alveolar macrophage cell line (3D4/2) and to elucidate the associated lncRNA regulatory network. The safe concentration of FNB was determined using the CCK-8 assay, and oxidative stress-related parameters were measured using commercial kits. The expression levels of key factors in oxidative stress signaling pathways were analyzed by qRT-PCR and Western blotting. Furthermore, transcriptome sequencing was performed to identify differentially expressed mRNAs and lncRNAs, followed by Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses to construct a lncRNA-mRNA interaction network. The results showed that treatment with 50 μg/mL FNB for 12 h significantly restored the PRV-suppressed activity of catalase (CAT) (p<0.05), whereas treatment with 12.5 μg/mL FNB for 12 h markedly increased the activities of glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) and heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) in PRV-infected cells (p<0.01). At the molecular level, treatment with 50 μg/mL FNB for 12 h significantly increased the mRNA and protein expression levels of HO-1 and NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1) (p<0.01). Transcriptomic analysis identified 6,948 differentially expressed messenger RNAs (mRNAs) after PRV infection and 4,400 differentially expressed mRNAs after FNB intervention compared with the PRV group, with these genes being mainly enriched in oxidative stress-related processes. By screening for key antioxidant-related mRNAs and their potentially interacting lncRNAs, a lncRNA-mRNA network was constructed. In conclusion, FNB may alleviate PRV infection-induced oxidative damage by activating the Nrf2/HO-1 signaling pathway and modulating specific lncRNA-mRNA networks. This study provides novel insights into the antioxidant effect of FNB against PRV infection-induced oxidative damage and the regulatory role of lncRNAs.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Long-term excessive fluoride intake accumulates in brain tissue, causing neuronal degeneration and nervous system dysfunction. This mechanism is closely related to elevated oxidative stress. α-Synuclein (α-Syn) is expressed in neuronal presynaptic terminals; under environmental toxin exposure or oxidative stress, its expression changes and it misfolds into oligomers and aggregates that are cytotoxic and induce oxidative cellular damage. Meanwhile, the nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2)-NAD(P)H: quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1)/heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) pathway is an important cellular system for regulating oxidative damage, and its core kinase is mainly expressed in brain astrocytes.The aim of this study is to investigate the effects of fluoride exposure on oxidative stress levels in astrocytes and the expression of α-Syn within the Nrf2-NQO1/HO-1 pathway. Primary astrocytes were treated with extracellular α-synuclein pre-formed fibrils (αSP) in conjunction with fluoride exposure. The results demonstrated that fluoride exposure induced reactive activation of primary astrocytes, increased levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS), decreased activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT), and up-regulated the protein expression within the Nrf2-NQO1/HO-1 pathway. αSP caused oxidative stress in primary astrocytes and exacerbated oxidative damage induced by fluoride exposure. These findings are significant for enhancing the understanding of the mechanisms underlying brain injury associated with chronic fluorosis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Phenolic compounds are recognized for antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and antidiabetic properties. Lentils are abundant in these compounds, yet comparative studies across varieties and intestinal cells effects remain limited. This study evaluated the nutritional composition, phenolic profile, antioxidant activity, and α-glucosidase inhibition of four lentil types in raw and cooked forms. L01 had the highest bioactive potential and was the only one selected for further evaluation in Caco-2 cells under basal and IL-1β-stimulated conditions. Cooking altered composition, leading to higher protein, fiber, and carbohydrates, reducing tannins, and maintaining high phytic acid in some varieties. L01 consistently showed the highest phenolic content, antioxidant activity, and enzyme inhibition. Its phenolic profile was dominated by kaempferol derivatives, (epi)catechin, and procyanidins, with cooking increasing monomeric catechins but reducing procyanidin oligomers. At noncytotoxic levels, L01 extracts reduced IL-6/8 secretion in stimulated cells, with stronger effects from raw extracts. Additionally, they decreased expression of inflammatory markers (IL-6/8/1β) while increasing expression of metabolic regulation- and barrier-related genes (Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ, Sirtuin 1, Occludin, and Cadherin-1). Only raw extracts significantly enhanced Heme oxygenase-1 expression under stimulation. These findings highlight compositional differences beyond tegument color and support further investigation of phenolic-rich lentils as potential functional food ingredients targeting gut and metabolic health.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is a one of the common microvascular complication of diabetes that involves oxidative stress, inflammation, activation and overexpression of Nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB), and chronic renal dysfunction. In this study, we evaluated the renoprotective role of perillaldehyde (PA) in protecting kidneys from diabetic nephropathy using in vitro and in vivo models of Streptozotocin-induced diabetic nephropathy. PA pre-treatment of NRK-52E cells under high-glucose conditions resulted in a significant reduction of reactive oxygen species formation, up-regulation of nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2), suppression of Kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1 (Keap1), and elevation of antioxidant enzyme biomarkers, such as heme oxygenase 1, superoxide dismutase 1, and NAD(P)H dehydrogenase quinone 1. PA also inhibited the overexpression of NF-κB, inducible nitric oxide synthase, and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase in high-glucose exposed NRK-52E cells. Administration of PA (35 and 70 mg/kg) to streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats showed beneficial effects on renal function parameters such as creatinine and blood urea nitrogen. PA treatment attenuated glomerular and tubular structural damage, as evidenced by H&E and PAS staining. At molecular level, PA was found to maintain the redox balance in the kidneys by stimulating the Nrf2/Keap1/HO-1 signalling pathway and inhibiting the NF-κB-dependent inflammatory response. Moreover, PA lowered lipid peroxidation and enhanced antioxidant status via reduction in MDA and elevation in GSH. The above results indicated that PA showed considerable reno-protective actions through coordinated regulation of both oxidative stress and inflammation pathways in experimental models of diabetic nephropathy.© 2026 International Federation of Cell Biology.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42553762 is a review article
Colorectal cancer (CRC) remains a global health challenge with rising incidence in younger populations and limited efficacy of current chemotherapies. In this study, we investigated the anti-tumor mechanisms of metochalcone (MET), a natural chalcone derivative, in CRC. Using a combination of transcriptomic, proteomic, and targeted in vitro and in vivo assays, we found that MET substantially reduced viability, migration, and invasion and arrested the cell cycle at the G0/G1 phase in HCT-116 CRC cells. Integrative analysis identified heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) as a key target, and molecular docking and cellular thermal shift assay confirmed that MET directly binds to and stabilizes the HO-1 protein. Mechanistically, MET treatment led to mitochondrial dysfunction, characterized by increased reactive oxygen species and decreased membrane potential, which in turn activated PTEN induced kinase 1 (PINK1)/Parkin-mediated mitophagy. In 2 distinct mouse models of CRC, MET potently suppressed tumor growth. Furthermore, 16S ribosomal RNA gene sequencing revealed that MET treatment was associated with changes in gut microbiota composition in mice, including an increased relative abundance of beneficial Lactobacillus and a decreased abundance of pro-inflammatory Desulfovibrionaceae. Our findings demonstrate that MET exerts multifaceted anti-tumor effects, including direct targeting of HO-1 and activation of PINK1/Parkin-mediated mitophagy, accompanied by alterations in gut microbiota composition.Copyright © 2026 Pingting Chen et al.
The senescence and abnormal osteogenic differentiation of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) are important causes of senile osteoporosis. Punicalagin (PUN), a natural polyphenol extracted from pomegranate peel, has demonstrated antioxidant activity in preclinical studies. This study aims to investigate the inhibitory effect of PUN on the aging of BMSCs and its therapeutic effect on senile osteoporosis.The senescence of BMSCs were induced by hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) to assess the therapeutic effect of PUN. Intracellular reactive oxygen species measurements, the senescence β-galactosidase staining, western blotting, and reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) were conducted to evaluate the senescence of BMSCs. Alkaline phosphatase staining, Alizarin red S staining, western blotting, and RT-qPCR were performed to assess the osteogenic differentiation of senescent BMSCs. Transcriptome sequencing was conducted to explore the underlying mechanism. In vivo, the therapeutic effects of PUN were investigated in aging rats with senile osteoporosis.PUN reversed the senescence of BMSCs and promoted the osteogenic differentiation in a dose-dependent manner. Mechanistically, PUN activated the nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (NRF2)/heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) pathway to protect BMSCs from oxidative stress. In aging rats with senile osteoporosis, intraperitoneal injection of PUN can promote osteogenesis and reduce aging-related bone loss in vivo.PUN alleviates senile osteoporosis by inhibiting the senescence of BMSCs via NRF2/HO-1 pathway, representing a candidate therapeutic drug for aging-related bone diseases.© 2026 The Author(s).
Objective: To investigate the effects and mechanisms of cerium-myricetin nanosystem (Ce-MYR) on wound healing in rats with full-thickness burns. Methods: This study was an experimental study with a grouped design and repeated measurement design. Ce-MYR was prepared by coordination self-assembly and characterized. Mouse RAW264.7 cells were divided into control group cultured normally, hydrogen peroxide group treated with hydrogen peroxide, and low Ce-MYR group, medium Ce-MYR group, and high Ce-MYR group which were first exposed to hydrogen peroxide and subsequently treated with Ce-MYR at final mass concentrations of 5, 10, and 20 μg/mL, respectively. After 24 h of culture, intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels were detected using the fluorescent probe method. Mouse bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) were divided into control group cultured normally, lipopolysaccharide (LPS) group treated with LPS, and Ce-MYR group treated with LPS combined with Ce-MYR. After 24 h of culture, the percentages of CD86- and CD206-positive areas in cells were calculated after immunofluorescence staining. Additional mouse BMDMs were divided into the LPS group and the Ce-MYR group, as described above. After 24 h of culture, the protein expressions of heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1), arginase-1 (Arg-1), inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), and NOD-like receptor family pyrin domain-containing protein 3 (NLRP3) in cells were detected by Western blotting. The sample size in all the above experiments was 4. Ten 6-week-old male Sprague-Dawley rats were used to establish four full-thickness burn wounds on the back of each rat, which were divided into phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) group and Ce-MYR group according to the random number table method, with 5 rats in each group. PBS or Ce-MYR was subcutaneously injected at the wound margin at post-injury days 0 (immediately), 3, and 6, respectively. The percentages of residual wound area were calculated at post-injury days 3, 7, 14, and 21. At post-injury day 21, the wound tissue of rats was collected and the number of CD31-positive blood vessels was counted after immunohistochemical staining, the percentages of CD86- and CD206-positive areas were calculated after immunofluorescence staining, and the levels of interleukin-6 (IL-6), IL-1β, and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Results: After 24 h of culture, the ROS level in RAW264.7 cells in hydrogen peroxide group was significantly higher than that in control group (P<0.05); the ROS level in RAW264.7 cells in medium Ce-MYR group was significantly lower than that in low Ce-MYR group (P<0.05) and significantly higher than that in high Ce-MYR group (P<0.05). After 24 h of culture, the percentage of CD86-positive area in BMDMs in Ce-MYR group was significantly lower than that in LPS group (P<0.05) and significantly higher than that in control group (P<0.05); the percentage of CD206-positive area in BMDMs in Ce-MYR group was significantly higher than that in control group and LPS group (with P values both <0.05). After 24 h of culture, compared with those in LPS group, the protein expressions of HO-1 and Arg-1 in BMDMs in Ce-MYR group were significantly increased (P<0.05), whereas the protein expressions of iNOS and NLRP3 were significantly decreased (P<0.05). At post-injury days 3, 7, 14, and 21, the percentages of residual wound area in rats in Ce-MYR group were (87.1±2.4)%, (65.1±2.2)%, (16.6±1.9)%, and (0.5±0.4)%, respectively, which were significantly lower than (101.5±3.5)%, (79.9±3.2)%, (36.2±3.9)%, and (14.5±1.9)% in PBS group (with t values of 7.604, 8.478, 10.193, and 16.166, respectively, P<0.05). At post-injury day 21, compared with those in PBS group, the number of CD31-positive blood vessels in wound tissue of rats in Ce-MYR group was significantly increased (t=3.395, P<0.05), the percentage of CD86-positive area was significantly decreased (t=4.474, P<0.05), the percentage of CD206-positive area was significantly increased (t=4.713, P<0.05), and the levels of IL-1β, IL-6, and TNF-α were significantly decreased (with t values of 3.999, 5.040, and 6.023, respectively, P<0.05). Conclusions: Ce-MYR may promote wound healing by reducing ROS levels, enhancing HO-1-related antioxidant responses in macrophages, thereby facilitating macrophage polarization from the M1 phenotype toward the M2 phenotype and improving oxidative stress and inflammatory imbalance in rats with full-thickness burn wounds.
This study aimed to investigate the effects of paeoniflorin on ferroptosis in chondrocytes in osteoarthritis and to elucidate the underlying mechanism via the nuclear factor E2-related factor 2(Nrf2)/glutathione peroxidase 4(GPX4) signaling pathway. Rat articular chondrocytes were treated with interleukin(IL)-1β, and divided into control, model, ferroptosis inhibitor Ferrostatin-1(Fer-1, 5 μmol·L~(-1)), and paeoniflorin low-, medium-, and high-dose(12.5, 25, and 50 μmol·L~(-1)) groups. Cell viability was measured by the CCK-8 assay. Levels of tumor necrosis factor-α(TNF-α), IL-6, prostaglandin E2(PGE2), and nitric oxide(NO) in cell supernatants were detected by ELISA. Western blot analysis was performed to detect the protein expression of cyclooxygenase-2(COX-2), inducible nitric oxide synthase(iNOS), collagen type Ⅱ(collagen Ⅱ), Aggrecan, matrix metalloproteinase-13(MMP-13), a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs-5(ADAMTS-5), and proteins related to the Nrf2/GPX4 signaling pathway. Intracellular reactive oxygen species(ROS), lipid peroxidation, and ferrous ion(Fe~(2+)) levels were measured using fluorescent probes. Commercial kits were used to determine the levels of iron, malondialdehyde(MDA), and reduced glutathione(GSH), as well as the activities of superoxide dismutase(SOD) and glutathione peroxidase(GSH-Px). In vivo, 60 SD rats were randomly divided into control, model, Fer-1, and paeoniflorin low-, medium-, and high-dose(25, 50, and 100 mg·kg~(-1)) groups. An osteoarthritis model was established by anterior cruciate ligament transection, followed by intragastric administration for 8 weeks. Subchondral bone microstructure was evaluated by micro-CT. Histological assessment was performed using hematoxylin-eosin(HE) and safranin fast green staining. Immunofluorescence staining was used to detect the expression of collagen Ⅱ, MMP-13, Nrf2, and GPX4 in cartilage tissues. Compared with the control group, the model group showed significantly decreased cell viability, increased levels of TNF-α, IL-6, PGE2, and NO, increased protein expression of COX-2, iNOS, MMP-13, and ADAMTS-5, and decreased expression of collagen Ⅱ and Aggrecan. The levels of ROS, lipid peroxidation, Fe~(2+), and MDA were increased, whereas GSH content, GSH/GSSG ratio, and SOD and GSH-Px activities were decreased. The expression of Kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1(Keap1) was increased, while the expression of Nrf2, heme oxygenase-1(HO-1), GPX4, and cystine/glutamate antiporter system Xc-(xCT) was decreased. In vivo, the model group exhibited aggravated subchondral bone microstructural damage and histopathological injury, with decreased expression of collagen Ⅱ, Nrf2, and GPX4 and increased expression of MMP-13 in cartilage tissue. Compared with the model group, Fer-1 and paeoniflorin increased chondrocyte viability, significantly reduced TNF-α, IL-6, PGE2, and NO levels and COX-2 and iNOS expression, upregulated collagen Ⅱ and Aggrecan expression, and downregulated MMP-13 and ADAMTS-5 expression. In addition, both treatments reduced intracellular ROS, lipid peroxidation, Fe~(2+), and MDA levels, increased GSH content, GSH/GSSG ratio, and SOD and GSH-Px activities, downregulated Keap1 expression, and upregulated Nrf2, HO-1, GPX4, and xCT expression. Furthermore, Fer-1 and paeoniflorin markedly improved subchondral bone microstructure and histopathological damage in osteoarthritis rats, upregulated collagen Ⅱ, Nrf2, and GPX4 expression, and downregulated MMP-13 expression in cartilage tissue. Paeoniflorin can delay the progression of osteoarthritis, and its protective effect is attributed to the inhibition of ferroptosis in chondrocytes, which may be mediated by the Nrf2/GPX4 signaling pathway.
Since its discovery in the early 1970's, there has been a substantial amount of research published on the restricted ovulatory (RO) leghorn chicken research line. This line possesses a paternally inherited mutation in the very-low density lipoprotein receptor, which causes follicles in the ovary not to fully develop, sterilizing the RO hens. Although well studied, this line still does not have a suitable means of semen cryopreservation and instead relies solely on living populations. Identifying a suitable semen cryopreservation protocol would ensure the availability of the RO line for future poultry researchers. For this study, semen was treated with permeable and non-permeable cryoprotectant agents (CPAs) or a combination, at varying concentrations. Permeable CPAs tested were dimethylformamide (DMF), dimethylacetamide (DMA), dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), and ethylene glycol (EG), along with two non-permeable CPAs, sucrose and trehalose. Motility parameters, membrane integrity, fertility, and hatchability were evaluated after semen thawing. For the RO semen, DMF 8% + trehalose 50 mM had one of the highest total motility (53.2 ± 3.3%), progressive motility (29.1 ± 4.8%), and membrane integrity (59.6 ± 2.2%) values. This protocol also had higher (P < 0.001) candled fertility (57%) during the first week after inseminations compared to DMF 8%, and DMF 8% + EG 2%. There was also no difference between this treatment's hatchability (92%) and the fresh-extended control. RO semen slow-frozen using DMF 8% + trehalose 50 mM gave high enough fertility and hatchability to be able to use for biobanking purposes.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Platelet factor 4 (PF4/CXCL4) is a chemokine with reported anti-angiogenic and immunomodulatory properties; however, the role of PF4 in neovascular age-related macular degeneration (nAMD) remains unclear. Thus, this study aimed to evaluate the therapeutic potential of PF4 in experimental models of ocular pathological neovascularization and explored the underlying mechanisms.PF4 expression was assessed in a laser-induced choroidal neovascularization (CNV) mouse model using quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR), enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), and immunofluorescence. Recombinant PF4 was administered intravitreally in laser-induced CNV mice and very low-density lipoprotein receptor knockout (Vldlr⁻/⁻) mice, a model of spontaneous retinal neovascularization with retinal angiomatous proliferation (RAP)-like lesions. Pathological neovascularization and vascular leakage were quantified by fundus fluorescein angiography and choroidal/retinal flat-mount analyses. Immunofluorescence, qRT-PCR, and RNA sequencing were employed to evaluate inflammatory responses. Moreover, the effects of PF4 on vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-induced proliferation, migration, and tube formation of human retinal microvascular endothelial cells were examined in vitro, and VEGF-mediated signaling was analyzed by Western blotting. Ocular safety was assessed by optical coherence tomography (OCT), electroretinography (ERG), hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining, and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) assay.Intravitreal PF4 significantly reduced pathological neovascularization and vascular leakage in both models and attenuated intraocular inflammation, as indicated by decreased expression of proinflammatory cytokines and reduced microglial/macrophage recruitment. PF4 inhibited VEGF-induced endothelial cell proliferation, migration, and tube formation in vitro. Mechanistically, PF4 downregulated VEGF expression in CNV lesions in vivo and suppressed VEGF-induced activation of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 (VEGFR2) and downstream extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), protein kinase B (AKT), and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) signaling in vivo and in vitro. PF4 administration was well tolerated, with no detectable adverse effects on retinal structure or function.PF4 effectively inhibits ocular pathological neovascularization and inflammation by modulating the VEGF/VEGFR2 signaling pathway. These findings support PF4 as a promising therapeutic candidate for nAMD and warrant further investigation.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Cerebellar ataxia, mental retardation, and disequilibrium syndrome (CAMRQ)-related disorders are rare, nonprogressive, autosomal recessive conditions primarily characterized by cerebellar ataxia, hypotonia, intellectual disability, delayed ambulation, and, in some cases, quadrupedal locomotion. Pathogenic variants in four disease genes, VLDLR, CA8, WRD81, and ATP8A2, have been linked to these disorders, with cases reported across various ethnic groups and geographic regions. However, no reports of CAMRQ1 (OMIM #224050) have been previously made from Africa. In this study, we report the first African family with four affected siblings exhibiting typical CAMRQ1 clinical features with varying levels of phenotypic severity. Genetic analysis revealed a novel missense homozygous variant (c.1694C > A; p.P565Q) in the VLDLR gene in all the affected individuals, with the parents being heterozygous. Biochemical analysis, including immunofluorescence and confocal laser microscopy, western blot, and endoglycosidase H sensitivity and resistance assay, demonstrated the retention of the p.(P565Q) VLDLR protein in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), impairing its trafficking to the plasma membrane and thus confirming its pathogenic impact. This ER retention is expected to disrupt VLDLR-mediated signaling pathways, including reelin signaling, thereby affecting neuronal migration. Furthermore, due to its ER retention, the p.(P565Q) is expected to induce ER stress and activate the endoplasmic reticulum-associated degradation (ERAD) pathway. Our findings expand the genetic and geographical spectrum of CAMRQ1 and provide further functional insights into its underlying pathogenesis.Copyright © 2026 Aseel A. Jawabri et al. Human Mutation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41888826 is a review article
Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a major cause of global blindness that affects millions worldwide. Certain forms of AMD cause neovascularisations (NVs), which form retinal-choroidal anastomoses. This disrupts healthy haemodynamic patterns, and early detection and treatment are crucial for preserving vision. Here, we employ a custom-built optical coherence tomography (OCT) imaging system to investigate these NVs in a very low-density lipoprotein receptor (VLDLR) knockout mouse model. Mice were imaged before, during, and after contrast agent injection, aiming to enhance our understanding of the NV haemodynamics. Doppler signal analysis techniques were employed to calculate flow velocities within individual NVs. Flow rates pre- and post-injection were determined based on these velocity measurements. Particle tracking was performed on two NVs for a comparative analysis with the Doppler velocity measurements. Both methods of measuring flow velocities showed good agreement post-contrast injection. The analysis of post-injection flow rates from the NVs revealed diverse behaviours. Some NVs exhibited stable flow rates over time, while others showed signs of instability, with flow rates changing substantially or even changing flow direction at different time points. Additionally, it was observed at multiple time points that flow from certain NVs moved from the choroid to the retina at the same time that other NVs displayed flow in the opposite direction. These observations suggest complex interactions between choroidal and retinal vascular networks in diseases like AMD. Further characterisation using contrast-enhanced Doppler OCT may improve our understanding of neovascular haemodynamics.© 2026 The Author(s).
Maternal diabetes increases the risk of neurodevelopmental alterations in the offspring, yet the molecular links to early corticogenesis remain unclear. During corticogenesis, radial migration is a coordinated process regulated by Reelin signaling and its disruption has been associated with abnormal cortical patterning. We reanalyze dorsal telencephalon transcriptomes from embryonic day 12 (E12) non-neural tube-defect rat embryos to identify canonical pathways perturbed by maternal hyperglycemia.Gene expression profiles from the dorsal prosencephalon at E12 from control and streptozotocin-treated dams (50 mg/kg at E5.5) were interrogated with Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA). We then assessed Reelin pathway components using quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), immunohistochemistry, and immunoblotting at E12 and E16, and examined postnatal cytoarchitecture/morphology in the primary motor cortex (M1) at postnatal day zero (P0) and P21 using hematoxylin-eosin and Golgi-Cox staining. All analyses excluded embryos with neural tube defects (NTD) to avoid cofounding by gross malformations.IPA revealed Reelin signaling in neurons as the only canonical pathway with a non-zero activation z-score, predicting inhibition in E12 embryos from diabetic rats. Concordantly, protein levels of Reelin (RELN), apolipoprotein E receptor 2/low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 8 (ApoER2/LRP8), very low-density lipoprotein receptor (VLDLR), and Disabled Homolog 1 (DAB1) were reduced at E12/E16 (all p < 0.05). N-cadherin (N-CAD) showed disrupted radial localization along the ventricular-pial axis despite unchanged total abundance, consistent with impaired neuron-radial glia adhesion/polarity. Postnatally, the M1 showed increased layer I cellularity, ectopic pyramidal neurons, and aberrant laminar organization.Maternal hyperglycemia is associated with attenuation of the Reelin signaling pathway and N-CAD mislocalization, providing a mechanistic framework for defective neuronal migration and abnormal lamination that persist into early postnatal life. Focusing on NTD-negative embryos isolates the pathway-specific effects of maternal hyperglycemia and nominates Reelin-pathway hypofunction as a candidate driver of altered fetal cortical patterning.© Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
The very low-density lipoprotein receptor (VLDLR) and apolipoprotein E receptor 2 (ApoER2) serve as entry receptors for the Semliki Forest virus (SFV). VLDLR interacts with the SFV E1 domain III (DIII) through multiple LDLR class A (LA) domains. However, the ApoER2-mediated SFV entry mechanism remains unclear. Here, we perform biochemical and cellular results and determine the cryogenic electron microscopy (cryo-EM) structures of SFV complexed with ApoER2 LA5 and full-length ApoER2, demonstrating that among the seven LA domains of ApoER2 isoform 1, only LA5 specifically binds to the SFV E1-DIII via a limited interface (353 Å²) and facilitates cell attachment and entry. Site-directed mutagenesis confirms the significance of the residues at the SFV-ApoER2 interface. Significantly, a soluble LA5 decoy receptor neutralizes SFV infection and protects mice from lethal SFV challenge. These findings reveal a LA5-dependent receptor engagement mechanism for SFV entry via ApoER2, distinct from VLDLR.© 2025. The Author(s).
Western equine encephalitis virus (WEEV), a group of encephalitic alphaviruses that cause severe diseases in humans and equids, historically used the very-low-density lipoprotein receptor (VLDLR) as a receptor during infection. However, current epidemic strains no longer use VLDLR as a receptor. In this study, we identify that LA1, LA2, LA3, and LA5 of VLDLR can directly interact with WEEV. Using cryo-electron microscopy, we investigate the structures of complexes formed between WEEV and VLDLR-LBD or other VLDLR fragments. Our findings show that LA1 and LA2 insert into a cleft formed by two adjacent E2-E1 heterodimers within a single trimeric spike, while LA3 and LA5 interact with the DIII region of WEEV E1. Among VLDLR concatemers, the LA1-5 exhibits the strongest binding affinity for WEEV. Additionally, we find that a single polymorphism in the E2 glycoprotein determines WEEV's receptor tropism. Mutations E2E181K or E2E81K in the nonpathogenic strain Imperial-181 enhanced its ability to enter via VLDLR. These results enhance our understanding of alphavirus receptor recognition and receptor usage shifts, providing insights for the development of antiviral therapies.© 2025. The Author(s).
Mutations in the reelin (RELN) extracellular matrix protein gene are known to cause cortical and cerebellar malformations due to disruption of normal neuroblast migration and localization during fetal neurodevelopment. More recently, mutations in genes encoding transmembrane receptors involved in the recognition of reelin, including very low-density lipoprotein receptor (VLDLR), have been linked to various dysequilibrium and ataxia syndromes. Radiologic findings in cases of VLDLR mutations include cerebellar hypoplasia with marked vermis hypoplasia and cortical simplification without lissencephaly. However, the gross and histologic findings in VLDLR-related cerebellar hypoplasia in humans have yet to be described in the literature. Neuropathologic analysis of a confirmed human case could serve to illuminate unique findings and further elucidate the underlying pathophysiologic mechanism of VLDLR gene mutations. We report the autopsy neuropathological findings in a genetically confirmed third-trimester gestation fetal example.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American Association of Neuropathologists, Inc.
Naotai formula (NTF) is clinically used for stroke treatment, yet its molecular mechanisms involving vascular and metabolic regulation remain unclear. This study combines network pharmacology (NP) and Mendelian randomization to explore NTF's therapeutic targets and pathways in stroke. Stroke-related genes were sourced from public databases, and NTF's active compounds were screened using SwissADME. Summary-data-based Mendelian randomization (SMR) analysis, combined with colocalization, integrated stroke genome-wide association study data with blood expression quantitative trait loci and protein quantitative trait loci datasets to identify genes/proteins causally linked to stroke risk. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) network and drug-compound-target networks were constructed using Cytoscape and R. Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analyses identified functional roles. Molecular docking assessed interactions between key compounds and prioritized targets. A total of 579 overlapping genes linked NTF and stroke. SMR identified 44 stroke-associated genes, with vascular endothelial growth factor A, angiotensinogen (AGT), and lipoprotein(a) replicated. Validation in Brain-eMeta supported eight of these targets, supporting tissue relevance. Enrichment analyses highlighted pathways including PPAR signaling, cholesterol metabolism, and vascular function. Core targets (Adiponectin, C1Q and collagen domain containing (ADIPOQ), Scavenger Receptor Class B Member 1 (SCARB1), and AGT) emerged from PPI networks. Molecular docking confirmed strong binding between NTF's Calycosin and AGT, a key renin-angiotensin system protein. NTF likely mitigates stroke by modulating genes involved in cholesterol metabolism and vascular regulation. The predicted Calycosin-AGT interaction provides a genetically informed hypothesis for a possible role in renin-angiotensin modulation. This integrative approach provides genetic and mechanistic insights into NTF's therapeutic efficacy.
The balance between adipogenic and osteogenic differentiation of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) is essential for maintaining bone homeostasis. This study aimed to investigate the role of retinoid-related orphan receptor α (RORα) in the adipogenic differentiation of BMSCs.Stable BMSC lines with RORα overexpression or knockdown were established. Adipogenic differentiation was evaluated using Oil Red O staining and by measuring the expression of adipogenic markers, including PPARγ2, LPL, LEP, FABP4, and ADIPOQ.Treatment with the RORα inhibitor SR3335 significantly promoted adipogenic differentiation, whereas the RORα agonist SR1078 exerted the opposite effect. Similarly, RORα-overexpressing (OE-RORα) BMSCs showed reduced adipogenic differentiation, while RORα knockdown BMSCs exhibited enhanced differentiation at 14 days after induction. During adipogenesis, PPARγ2 expression increased significantly, peaking at day 6 before gradually declining. Overexpression and knockdown of RORα accentuated this downregulation and upregulation, respectively, at days 6 and 12. The adipogenic marker genes lipoprotein lipase (LPL), leptin (LEP), fatty acid binding protein 4 (FABP4), and adiponectin C1Q and collagen domain containing (ADIPOQ) were markedly downregulated in RORα-overexpressing BMSCs at day 12. Moreover, RORα overexpression enhanced β-catenin nuclear translocation at day 1 post-induction and upregulated downstream WNT/β-catenin signaling molecules (Axin2, c-Myc, CD44) at day 6. Inhibition of WNT/β-catenin signaling with XAV-939 effectively reversed the suppressive effect of RORα overexpression on adipogenic differentiation and restored the expression of adipogenesis-related genes.RORα suppresses adipogenic differentiation of BMSCs, at least in part, by activating WNT/β-catenin signaling.© 2025. The Author(s).
Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) are public health concerns worldwide. These two diseases share the same pathophysiological and genetic similarities. This study aimed to investigate the T2DM known single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of the adiponectin C1Q and collagen domain containing (ADIPOQ), cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 2A and 2B (CDKN2A/2B), and signal sequence receptor subunit 1 (SSR1) genes in a cohort of Romanian GDM pregnant women and perinatal outcomes. DNA was isolated from the peripheral blood of 213 pregnant women with (n = 71) or without (n = 142) GDM. Afterward, ADIPOQ (rs266729), CDKN2A/2B (rs10811661), and SSR1 (rs9505118) gene polymorphisms were genotyped using TaqMan Real-Time PCR analysis. Women with GDM had a higher pre-pregnancy body mass index (BMI) (p < 0.0001), higher BMI (p < 0.0001), higher insulin resistance homeostatic model assessment (IR-HOMA) (p = 0.0002), higher insulin levels (p = 0.003), and lower adiponectin levels (p = 0.004) at birth compared to pregnant women with normoglycemia. GDM pregnant women had gestational hypertension (GH) more frequently during pregnancy (p < 0.0001), perineal lacerations more frequently during vaginal birth (p = 0.03), and more macrosomic newborns (p < 0.0001) than pregnant women from the control group. We did not find an association under any model (allelic, genotypic, dominant, or recessive) of ADIPOQ rs266729, CDKN2A/2B rs10811661, and SSR1 rs9505118 polymorphisms and GDM. In correlation analysis, we found a weak positive correlation (r = 0.24) between the dominant model GG + CG vs. CC of rs266729 and labor induction failure. In the dominant model TT vs. CC + CT of rs10811661, we found a weak negative correlation between this model and perineal lacerations. Our results suggest that the ADIPOQ rs266729, the CDKN2A/2B rs10811661, and the SSR1 rs9505118 gene polymorphisms are not associated with GDM in a cohort of Romanian pregnant women.
The fat tail of sheep is an adaptive trait that facilitates their adaptation to harsh natural environments. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have been demonstrated to play crucial roles in the regulation of tail fat deposition.In this study, miRNA-Seq was employed to investigate the expression profiles of miRNAs during different developmental stages of sheep fat tails and elucidate the functions of differentially expressed miRNAs (DE miRNAs).A total of 350 DE miRNAs were identified, among which 191, 60, 26, and 21 were significantly upregulated in tail fat tissues of fetal, lamb, hogget Altay sheep, and adult Xinjiang fine wool (XFW) sheep but downregulated in other stages. Furthermore, we predicted a set of candidate target genes (4,476) for the top 20 DE miRNAs. Gene ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analysis showed that they involve in several adipogenesis-related pathways. Subsequent investigations indicated that four DE miRNAs, miR-433-3p, miR-485-3p, miR-409-3p, and miR-495-3p, could suppress the expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ) and phosphoinositide-3-kinase regulatory subunit 3 (PIK3R3) and regulate the preadipocyte development in sheep. Meanwhile, the lipid metabolism-related genes, fatty acid-binding protein (FABP3), perilipin 1 (PLIN1), adiponectin C1Q and collagen domain containing (ADIPOQ), and lipoprotein lipase (LPL), were significantly downregulated (p < 0.01).The expression patterns of miRNAs exhibited significant fluctuations during different development periods of the fat tail, and some of them may participate in the regulation of tail fat deposition by modulating the proliferation and differentiation of preadipocytes.Copyright © 2024 Zhang, Wang, Yang, Gao, Ning, Xu, Deng and Gan.
Norisoboldine (NOR) is a major isoquinoline alkaloid component in the traditional Chinese herbal plant Lindera aggregata (Sims) Kosterm, with previously reported anti-osteoclast differentiation and antiarthritis properties. However, the roles of NOR on osteoblasts, bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs), and osteoporosis in vivo have never been well established.This study investigates the ability of NOR to improve bone formation in vitro and in vivo. Osteoblasts and BMSCs are used to study the effect of NOR on osteogenic and adipogenic differentiation. It finds that NOR promotes osteogenic differentiation of osteoblasts and BMSCs, while inhibiting adipogenic differentiation of BMSCs by reducing the relative expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (Ppar-γ) and adiponectin, C1Q and collagen domain containing (Adipoq). Mechanistic studies show that NOR increases osteoblast differentiation through the mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase (mTOR)/ribosomal protein S6 kinase; polypeptide 1 (S6K1) pathway, and treatment with an mTOR inhibitor rapamycin blocked the NOR-induced increase in mineral accumulation. Finally, the study evaluates the therapeutic potential of NOR in a mouse model of ovariectomy (OVX)-induced bone loss. NOR prevents bone loss in both trabecular and cortical bone by increasing osteoblast number and phospho-S6K1 (p-S6K1) expression in osteoblasts.NOR effects in enhancing osteoblast-induced bone formation via S6K1 pathway, suggesting the potential of NOR in osteoporosis treatment by increasing bone formation.© 2024 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Skipped: PubMed ID 37700498 is a review article
Cachexia occurrence and development are associated with loss of white adipose tissues, which may be involved with cancer-derived exosomes. This study attempted to characterize the functional mechanisms of breast cancer (BC) cell-derived exosome-loaded microRNA (miR)-155 in cancer cachexia-related fat loss. Exosomes were incubated with preadipocytes and cellular lipid droplet accumulation was observed using Oil Red O staining. Western blotting evaluated the cellular levels of lipogenesis marker peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma (PPARγ) and adiponectin, C1Q and collagen domain containing (AdipoQ). Differentiated adipocytes were incubated with exosomes, and phosphate hormone sensitive lipase (P-HSL), adipose triglyceride lipase (ATGL) and glycerol were detected in adipocytes, in addition to uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1) and leptin levels. A mouse model of cancer cachexia was established where cancer exosomes were injected intravenously. The changes in body weight and tumor-free body weights were recorded and serum glycerol levels and lipid accumulation in adipose tissues were determined. Also, the relationship between miR-155 and UBQLN1 was predicted and verified. BC exosome treatment reduced PPARγ and AdipoQ protein levels, promoted the levels of P-HSL and ATGL proteins, facilitated glycerol release, increased UCP1 expression and lowered leptin expression in adipocytes. Exosomal miR-155 inhibited lipogenesis in preadipocytes and boosted the browning of white adipose tissues. miR-155 downregulation alleviated cancer exosome-induced browning of white adipose tissues and fat loss. Mechanistically, miR-155 targeted UBQLN1, and UBQLN1 upregulation reversed the impacts of cancer exosomes. miR-155 loaded by BC cell-derived exosomes significantly affects white adipose browning and inhibition of cancer-derived exosomes.© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press.
Soft tissue defects caused by adipose tissue loss can result in various conditions such as lipodystrophy in congenital diseases, trauma secondary to ageing, and mastectomy in breast cancer; fat grafting is commonly performed to restore these defects. Although various enrichment strategies have been studied, novel therapeutics that are cost-effective, safe, technologically easy to manufacture, and minimally invasive are required. In this study, we identified a novel peptide derived from plasminogen, named plasminogen-derived peptide-1 (PLP-1), which showed adipogenic differentiation potential and led to an increase in the expression levels of adiponectin, C1Q and collagen domain containing protein, fatty acid-binding protein 4, and CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein-alpha. In vivo experiments confirmed an increase in the rate of adipocyte differentiation and the expression levels of CD31 in the PLP-1-treated mice groups. These results suggested that PLP-1 plays an important role in promoting the differentiation of preadipocytes and may be useful for developing therapeutic approaches to treat adipose tissue defects.
Obesity is highly polygenic disease where several genetic variants have been reportedly associated with obesity in different ethnicities of the world. In the current study, we identified the obesity risk or protective association and BMI raising effect of the minor allele of adiponectin, C1Q and collagen domain containing (ADIPOQ), cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CEPT), FTO alpha-ketoglutarate dependent dioxygenase (FTO), leptin (LEP), and leptin receptor (LEPR) genes in a large cohort stratified into four BMI-based body weight categories i.e., normal weight, lean, over-weight, and obese. Based on selected candidate genetic markers, the genotyping of all study subjects was performed by PCR assays, and genotypes and allele frequencies were calculated. The minor allele frequencies (MAFs) of all genetic markers were computed for total and BMI-based body weight categories and compared with MAFs of global and South Asian (SAS) populations. Genetic associations of variants with obesity risk were calculated and BMI raising effect per copy of the minor allele were estimated. The genetic variants with higher MAFs in obese BMI group were; rs2241766 (G = 0.43), rs17817449 (G = 0.54), rs9939609 (A = 0.51), rs1421085 (C = 0.53), rs1558902 (A = 0.63), and rs1137101 (G = 0.64) respectively. All these variants were significantly associated with obesity (OR = 1.03-4.42) and showed a high BMI raising effect (β = 0.239-0.31 Kg/m2) per copy of the risk allele. In contrast, the MAFs of three variants were higher in lean-normal BMI groups; rs3764261 A = 0.38, rs9941349 T = 0.43, and rs7799039 G = 0.40-0.43). These variants showed obesity protective associations (OR = 0.68-0.76), and a BMI lowering effect per copy of the protective allele (β = -0.103-0.155 Kg/m2). The rs3764261 variant also showed significant and positive association with lean body mass (OR = 2.38, CI = 1.30-4.34). Overall, we report six genetic variants of ADIPOQ, FTO and LEPR genes as obesity-risk markers and a CETP gene variant as lean mass/obesity protective marker in studied Pakistani cohort.
Microsatellite instability-high (MSI-H) is a form of genomic instability present in 15% of colorectal cancer (CRC) cases. Several differential gene analyses have been conducted on CRC; however, none have specifically explored the differentially expressed genes in MSI-H CRC. Research on the different gene expressions between MSI-H CRC and microsatellite stable (MSS) CRC, and their different patterns of metastasis will provide invaluable insights for diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment.In this study, the differential expression of 46,602 genes were analyzed across 613 different tissue samples from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA)-colon adenocarcinoma (COAD) and TCGA-rectum adenocarcinoma (READ) as part of a gene association analysis. R package TCGAbiolinks (version 2.18.0) was used to download the data set, and DESeq2 (version 1.30.1) was used for the differential gene analysis. The resulting genes were then analyzed for shared pathways with R package clusterProfiler (version 3.0.4).A total of 237 significantly differentially expressed genes (Padj<0.05) were found between MSI-H and MSS CRC. Differentially expressed genes include insulin like growth factor 2 (IGF2) and fibroblast growth factor 3 (FGF3), and the enriched pathways mostly involve hearing, digestive regulation, and neurogenesis.463 differentially expressed genes were found between metastatic and non-metastatic CRC. Notably differentially expressed genes in metastatic CRC include DEAD-box helicase 53 (DDX53) and adiponectin, C1Q and collagen domain containing (ADIPOQ), and enriched pathways include the immune system, cell adhesion, and cell signaling. For MSI-H CRC, a total of 34 genes were significantly differently expressed between metastatic and non-metastatic CRC. These include notum, palmitoleoyl-protein carboxylesterase (NOTUM), serpin family B member 2 (SERPINB2), and several keratin (KRT) genes, and the pathway analysis showed the major enrichment of the hormonal and secretion and regulation pathways. Of the differentially expressed genes in metastatic CRC, 25 were immunity related and include fatty acid binding protein 4 (FABP4), and the pathway analysis showed the enrichment of humoral immunity and lymphocyte regulation.Of the biologically plausible differentially expressed genes, the most notable were NOTUM, KRT6A, KRT14, SERPINB2, and serum amyloid A1 (SAA1). NOTUM, KRT6A, and KRT14 are active in the Wnt pathway. All five are also involved in various inflammation pathways.2022 Annals of Translational Medicine. All rights reserved.
Familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) is an autosomal dominant genetic disorder, characterised by markedly elevated levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) from birth, which confers a substantially increased risk of premature atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD). Pathogenic variants primarily occur in the genes encoding the low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR), apolipoprotein B (ApoB), low-density lipoprotein receptor adaptor protein 1 (LDLRAP1), or proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9). Early diagnosis, based on clinical criteria, family history, and genetic testing, is imperative to promptly initiate aggressive therapeutic strategies. Standard treatment involves lifestyle modifications and high-intensity pharmacotherapy, primarily with statins, often in combination with ezetimibe. For patients who do not achieve their therapeutic goals or are intolerant, PCSK9 inhibitors represent a significant evolution in the treatment paradigm. In this article, we present a case of homozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia.Copyright © 2025, Conchinha et al.
Introduction and Objectives: Familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) is an autosomal dominant genetic disorder of lipid metabolism that is characterized by elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels and a high risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. Familial hypercholesterolemia is typically caused by mutations in the LDL receptor gene (LDLR), although other alterations may be found. The aim of this study was to perform a genetic study on a population identified through a new population-based diagnostic screen program for FH. Methods: Genetic variants in LDLR, apolipoprotein B (APOB), apolipoprotein E (APOE), proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9), signal transducing Adaptor Family Member 1 (STAP1), low density lipoprotein receptor adaptor protein 1 (LDLRAP1) and lipase A, and lysosomal acid type lipase A (LIPA), as well as a genetic risk score, were evaluated in 84 individuals with a clinical diagnosis of FH based on the Dutch Lipid Clinics Network criteria (DLCN ≥ 6). These individuals were selected from a cohort of 752 patients with an abnormal lipid profile, obtained by screening existing centralized analytics. Results: A clinical diagnosis of FH was established in 17.9% of the patients evaluated, with mean LDL-C levels of 305.7 mg/dL (95% CI 250.4-360.9). Genetic variants were detected in 70.2% of these patients, with 50 different mutations identified, mainly in the LDLR. The most frequent pathogenic variants were c.1342C>T and c.313+1G>C. Null variants exhibited a more severe phenotype, and the risk score indicates that patients carrying genetic alterations have a 42% higher risk of developing cardiovascular disease. Conclusions: A high rate of genetic alterations was detected in patients with severe FH. In most cases, the phenotypic findings did not predict the genetic results, which provide important information regarding the cardiovascular risk of patients.
Familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) and other disorders with similar features are common genetic disorders that remain underdiagnosed and undertreated, due in part to the cost of screening. The aim of this study was to design and implement a whole gene targeted NGS panel for the molecular diagnosis of FH and statin intolerance with an emphasis on high quality variant calling, including copy number analysis.A whole gene panel for hybridisation-based short read NGS was designed for the dominant FH-genes low density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR), apolipoprotein B (APOB), proproteinconvertas subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9), apolipoprotein E (APOE) and the recessive FH-genes low density lipoprotein receptor adaptor protein 1 (LDLRAP1), ATP binding cassette subfamily member 5/8 (ABCG5/8) and lipase A, lysosomal acid type (LIPA), as well as solute carrier organic anion transporter family member 1B1 (SLCO1B1), not an FH gene but linked to statin intolerance. Polygenetic risk score markers were also included. The panel was used for screening of a Swedish FH-study population (n = 133).The panel sequencing resulted in high coverage and confident variant calling of included genes. Known causal variants were found in common dominant FH-genes in 43 % of the cohort. Copy number variants were found in LDLR in 10 individuals and a whole gene deletion of SLCO1B1 in one individual. In addition, coding variants in recessive genes and rare non-coding intronic and untranslated region variants were found in a large proportion of the study individuals highlighting the need for extended gene panels.This new tool can be used for a comprehensive high-quality molecular genetic analysis according to guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of FH.© 2024 The Authors.
Objective: To evaluate the diagnostic value of gene testing in familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) in patients with premature myocardial infarction(PMI). Methods: This study was a single center cross-sectional study. A retrospective analysis was made on PMI patients who visited the People's Hospital of Peking University from May 1, 2015 to March 31, 2017. Clinical data of patients was collected and gene testing of FH related genes low density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR), proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9), apolipoprotein B(APOB) and low density lipoprotein receptor adaptor protein 1(LDLRAP1) was carried out. Clinical diagnosis of FH patients was performed using Simon Broome criteria, DLCN criteria, and FH Chinese expert consensus. Results: There were 188 males (83.6%) among 225 PMI patients, and the age of the first myocardial infarction was (46.6±7.2) years old. Ten patients carried FH pathogenic or possibly pathogenic mutations (4.4%). Compared with Simon Broome standard, DLCN standard and FH Chinese expert consensus, gene testing increased the diagnostic rate of FH by 53.3%, 33.3% and 42.1% respectively. Conclusion: Gene testing is helpful to improve the diagnosis of FH, and it is important to start the standard treatment of FH as early as possible in patients with premature myocardial infarction.
Dyslipidemia, vascular inflammation, obesity, and insulin resistance often overlap and exacerbate each other. Mutations in low density lipoprotein receptor adaptor protein-1 (LDLRAP1) lead to LDLR malfunction and are associated with the autosomal recessive hypercholesterolemia disorder in humans. However, direct causality on atherogenesis in a defined preclinical model has not been reported. The objective of this study was to test the hypothesis that deletion of LDLRAP1 will lead to hypercholesteremia and atherosclerosis. LDLRAP1-/- mice fed a high-fat Western diet had significantly increased plasma cholesterol and triglyceride concentrations accompanied with significantly increased plaque burden compared with wild-type controls. Unexpectedly, LDLRAP1-/- mice gained significantly more weight compared with controls. Even on a chow diet, LDLRAP1-/- mice were insulin-resistant, and calorimetric studies suggested an altered metabolic profile. The study showed that LDLRAP1 is highly expressed in visceral adipose tissue, and LDLRAP1-/- adipocytes are significantly larger, have reduced glucose uptake and AKT phosphorylation, but have increased CD36 expression. Visceral adipose tissue from LDLRAP1-/- mice was hypoxic and had gene expression signatures of dysregulated lipid storage and energy homeostasis. These data are the first to indicate that lack of LDLRAP1 directly leads to atherosclerosis in mice and also plays an unanticipated metabolic regulatory role in adipose tissue. LDLRAP1 may link atherosclerosis and hypercholesterolemia with common comorbidities of obesity and insulin resistance.Copyright © 2022 American Society for Investigative Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Autosomal recessive hypercholesterolemia (ARH) is a rare form of genetic hypercholesterolemia caused by mutations in low density lipoprotein receptor adaptor protein 1 (LDLRAP1). The proband first presented with linear eruptive xanthomas over her ankles, knees and elbows, with low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) of 16.0 mmol/L (618.7 mg/dL), at 2.5 years old. Next generation sequencing revealed a novel homozygous mutation in LDLRAP1 exon 5 (c.466delG). In the first year, drug regimens of either cholestyramine or simvastatin, reduced her LDL-C to 10.5 mmol/L (406 mg/dL) and 11.7 mmol/L (452.4 mg/dL), respectively. Combination simvastatin and ezetimibe was the mainstay of therapy from age 5 - 10 years. Her lowest achieved LDL-C was 6.3 mmol/L (243.6 mg/dL). Switching to atorvastatin did not lead to further reduction. Carotid intima-media thickness was 0.47 mm (> 97th percentile) and 0.32 mm (75 - 95th percentile) at ages 8 years and 11 years, respectively. Addition of monthly injections of evolocumab for 3 months, led to an increase in LDL-C, from 7.0 mmol/L (270.7 mg/dL) to a range of [(8.4 - 9.1) mmol/L or (324.8 - 351.9) mg/dL]. In this report, a decade-long lipid management is described in a patient with ARH. Residual activity of LDLRAP1 is a likely determinant of her response. Clinical management remains sub-optimal and options for the paediatric population are limited. Novel classes of cholesterol-lowering medications are needed for this ultra-rare and severe hypercholesterolemia.Copyright © 2021. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Neutral cholesterol ester hydrolase 1 (NCEH1) plays a critical role in the regulation of cholesterol ester metabolism. Deficiency of NCHE1 accelerated atherosclerotic lesion formation in mice. Nonetheless, the role of NCEH1 in endothelial dysfunction associated with diabetes has not been explored. The present study sought to investigate whether NCEH1 improved endothelial function in diabetes, and the underlying mechanisms were explored.The expression and activity of NCEH1 were determined in obese mice with high-fat diet (HFD) feeding, high glucose (HG)-induced mouse aortae or primary endothelial cells (ECs). Endothelium-dependent relaxation (EDR) in aortae response to acetylcholine (Ach) was measured.Results showed that the expression and activity of NCEH1 were lower in HFD-induced mouse aortae, HG-exposed mouse aortae ex vivo, and HG-incubated primary ECs. HG exposure reduced EDR in mouse aortae, which was exaggerated by endothelial-specific deficiency of NCEH1, whereas NCEH1 overexpression restored the impaired EDR. Similar results were observed in HFD mice. Mechanically, NCEH1 ameliorated the disrupted EDR by dissociating endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) from caveolin-1 (Cav-1), leading to eNOS activation and nitric oxide (NO) release. Moreover, interaction of NCEH1 with the E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase ZNRF1 led to the degradation of Cav-1 through the ubiquitination pathway. Silencing Cav-1 and upregulating ZNRF1 were sufficient to improve EDR of diabetic aortas, while overexpression of Cav-1 and downregulation of ZNRF1 abolished the effects of NCEH1 on endothelial function in diabetes. Thus, NCEH1 preserves endothelial function through increasing NO bioavailability secondary to the disruption of the Cav-1/eNOS complex in the endothelium of diabetic mice, depending on ZNRF1-induced ubiquitination of Cav-1.NCEH1 may be a promising candidate for the prevention and treatment of vascular complications of diabetes.© 2024. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 35736449 is a review article
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the most common cancers worldwide characterized by disparities in age, gender, race and anatomic sites. The mechanism underlying pathogenesis, progression and disparities of CRC remains unclear. This study aims to reveal the association of expression levels of enzymes related to cholesteryl ester (CE) metabolism with pathogenesis, progression and disparities of CRC.The differences in gene expression levels were analyzed for enzymes in CE synthesis (acyl CoA: cholesterol acyltransferase 1 and 2, ACAT1, and ACAT2), and in CE hydrolysis (neutral cholesterol ester hydrolase, NCEH1 and lysosomal acid lipase, LAL) on TNMplot platform between CRC and normal colorectal tissues (NCT) in a large cohort. The differences in protein expression levels for these enzymes were determined by Immunochemistry (IHC) performed on tissue microarray containing 96 pairs of CRC and benign colorectal tissues (BCT) from different patient populations. The expression level represented as IHC score of each enzyme was compared between CRC and BCT in entire population and populations stratified by race, gender and anatomic sites. Student's t-test, Fisher exact test and ANOVA were used for data analysis. Significant p value was set at P<0.05.The gene expression level of ACAT1 was significantly lower in CRC than in NCT (P = 2.15e-119). The gene expression level of ACAT2 was not statistically different between CRC and NCT. The gene expression level of LIPA (encoding LAL) was significantly higher in CRC than in NCT (P = 2.01e-14). No data was found for the gene expression level of NCEH1. The IHC score of ACAT1was significantly lower in CRC than in BCT in all studied populations and in sub site of colon, but not in that of rectum. The IHC score of ACAT2 was not statistically different between CRC and BCT. IHC score of NCEH1 was significantly higher in CRC than in BCT only in African American (AA) population. The IHC score of LAL was significantly higher in CRC than in BCT in all studied populations and in all sub sites. In addition, decreased ACAT1 in CRC significantly correlated to progression of CRC: the lower IHC score of ACAT1, the more advanced clinical stage of CRC will be.This study revealed that altered expression levels in enzymes related to CE metabolism highly correlate to the pathogenesis, clinical progression and disparities of CRC. The results will add revenue in elucidating mechanisms underlying progression of CRC, and shed light on seeking biomarkers and exploring therapeutic targets for CRC in a new direction.© 2022. The Author(s).
Large quantities of vitamin A are stored as retinyl esters (REs) in specialized liver cells, the hepatic stellate cells (HSCs). To date, the enzymes controlling RE degradation in HSCs are poorly understood. In this study, we identified KIAA1363 (also annotated as arylacetamide deacetylase 1 or neutral cholesterol ester hydrolase 1) as a novel RE hydrolase. We show that KIAA1363 is expressed in the liver, mainly in HSCs, and exhibits RE hydrolase activity at neutral pH. Accordingly, addition of the KIAA1363-specific inhibitor JW480 largely reduced RE hydrolase activity in lysates of cultured murine and human HSCs. Furthermore, cell fractionation experiments and confocal microscopy studies showed that KIAA1363 localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum. We demonstrate that overexpression of KIAA1363 in cells led to lower cellular RE content after a retinol loading period. Conversely, pharmacological inhibition or shRNA-mediated silencing of KIAA1363 expression in cultured murine and human HSCs attenuated RE degradation. Together, our data suggest that KIAA1363 affects vitamin A metabolism of HSCs by hydrolyzing REs at the endoplasmic reticulum, thereby counteracting retinol esterification and RE storage in lipid droplets.Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Gastric cancer (GC) is the third most common cause of cancer deaths worldwide. In the present study, we aimed to identify novel GC biomarkers by integrating isobaric tags of relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) for aberrantly expressed proteins in GC patients.Using stable isotope tags, we labeled an initial discovery group comprising four paired gastric cancer and adjacent gastric tissue samples, and subjected them to LC-ESI-MS/MS. We used a validation set comprising 129 paired gastric cancer and adjacent gastric tissues from patients and benign healthy controls to validate the candidate targets.We identified two proteins, NAD(P)-dependent steroid dehydrogenase-like (NSDHL) and neutral cholesterol ester hydrolase 1 (NCEH1), that were significantly overexpressed in GC tissues. The sensitivity and specificity of NSDHL were 80.6% and 74.4%, respectively, in GC compared with a sensitivity of 25.6% in adjacent tissues and 24% in benign healthy controls. The area under the ROC curve (AUC) for NSDHL was 0.810 for GC detection. Overexpression of NSDHL in GC was significantly correlated with local tumor invasion. The sensitivity and specificity of NCEH1 were 77.5% and 73.6%, respectively, in GC compared with a sensitivity of 26.4% in adjacent tissues and 20% in benign controls. The AUC for NSDHL was 0.792. Overexpression of NCEH1 was significantly associated with tumor histological classification and local invasion. Moreover, a combined analysis of NSDHL and NCEH1 achieved a sensitivity and specificity of 85.7% and 83%, respectively, and the AUC was 0.872. The combined analysis of NSDHL and NCEH1 was significantly correlated with histological grade and TNM Ⅱ-Ⅳ staging.iTRAQ-labeled quantitative proteomics represents a powerful method to identify novel cancer biomarkers. The present study identified NSDHL and NCEH1 as useful biomarkers for screening, diagnosis, and prognosis of patients with gastric cancer.© 2020 The Authors. Journal of Clinical Laboratory Analysis published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
2-Hydroxypropyl-β-cyclodextrin (HPCD) is an FDA approved vehicle for drug delivery and an efficient cholesterol-lowering agent. HPCD was proposed to lower tissue cholesterol via multiple mechanisms including those mediated by oxysterols. CYP27A1 and CYP46A1 are the major oxysterol-producing enzymes in the retina that convert cholesterol to 27- and 24-hydroxycholesterol, respectively. We investigated whether HPCD treatments affected the retina of wild-type and Cyp27a1-/- Cyp46a1-/- mice that do not produce the major retinal oxysterols.HPCD administration was either by i.p., p.o. or s.c. Delivery to the retina was confirmed by angiography using the fluorescently labelled HPCD. Effects on the levels of retinal sterols, mRNA and proteins were evaluated by GC-MS, qRT-PCR and label-free approach, respectively.In both wild-type and Cyp27a1-/- Cyp46a1-/- mice, HPCD crossed the blood-retinal barrier when delivered i.p. and lowered the retinal cholesterol content when administered p.o. and s.c. In both genotypes, oral HPCD treatment affected the expression of cholesterol-related genes as well as the proteins involved in endocytosis, lysosomal function and lipid homeostasis. Mechanistically, liver X receptors and the altered expression of Lipe (hormone-sensitive lipase), Nceh1 (neutral cholesterol ester hydrolase 1) and NLTP (non-specific lipid-transfer protein) could mediate some of the HPCD effects.HPCD treatment altered retinal cholesterol homeostasis and is a potential therapeutic approach for the reduction of drusen and subretinal drusenoid deposits, cholesterol-rich lesions and hallmarks of age-related macular degeneration.This article is part of a themed issue on Oxysterols, Lifelong Health and Therapeutics. To view the other articles in this section visit http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/bph.v178.16/issuetoc.© 2020 The British Pharmacological Society.
Early detection of pancreatic cancer remains challenging, and reliable circulating biomarkers are needed to enable earlier diagnosis and improve clinical outcomes. We conducted a plasma proteomics study using the Olink Explore HT platform to identify novel biomarker candidates for early-stage pancreatic cancer. The study included 42 patients with stage I-II pancreatic cancer and 43 matched controls. Plasma protein levels were quantified using the Olink Proximity Extension Assay, and differential abundance was assessed using Welch's t-test with correction for multiple testing. Diagnostic performance was evaluated using the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC). Among 5419 proteins analyzed, 982 showed significant differences between cases and controls. Carboxylesterase 3 (CES3) was the most significantly decreased protein, whereas leukocyte immunoglobulin-like receptor B4 (LILRB4) was the most significantly increased protein; both demonstrated excellent diagnostic performance (AUC = 0.91). In addition, pancreatic polypeptide (PPY) showed markedly reduced levels in patients with tumors arising in the head of the pancreas, suggesting anatomical specificity. This comprehensive Olink-based proteomic analysis identifies CES3 and LILRB4 as promising plasma biomarkers for early-stage pancreatic cancer and highlights PPY as informative for tumor localization. These findings provide a valuable resource for biomarker discovery and support further validation of these candidates for noninvasive early detection and risk stratification.© 2026 UICC.
Antimicrobial resistance poses a fundamental global threat, necessitating new strategies for effective therapies. Cystobactamids, a class of antibacterial agents targeting bacterial gyrase and topoisomerase IV, represent a non-traditional chemical scaffold with broad-spectrum activity. For toxicological de-risking, we performed a comprehensive profiling on eukaryotic cells, focusing on cytotoxicity, genotoxicity, and mitochondrial toxicity, demonstrating cellular safety and superoxide scavenging properties. Studies in zebrafish embryos assessed developmental, cardiovascular, and hepatic toxicity, indicating a favorable in vivo safety profile. Metabolism studies revealed glucuronidation and amide bond hydrolysis as key pathways, whereby cystobactamid metabolic stability substantially improved by cobicistat co-treatment. Affinity-based protein profiling identified the cholesterol- and HCV-receptor scavenger receptor class B member 1 (SCARB1) as a primary eukaryotic off-target protein, with cystobactamids shown to inhibit SCARB1´s function, preventing hepatitis C virus pseudoparticle entry into cells. These findings suggest a high therapeutic potential for cystobactamids and highlight SCARB1 as a primary eukaryotic target.© 2025. The Author(s).
Metabolic syndrome involves several lipid-related genes, including apolipoprotein A5 (APOA5), lipoprotein lipase (LPL), and cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP). Although individual SNP susceptibility has been reported, gene-gene interactions remain underexplored. To address this gap, we apply many-objective multifactor dimensionality reduction (MaODR)-previously developed by our group-to detect gene‒gene interactions in unbalanced newly identified MetS and non-MetS subjects.Among 40,773 Taiwan Biobank participants (5,723 newly identified metabolic syndrome cases and 35,050 controls) after excluding smokers and individuals with chronic diseases, genome-wide association analysis identifies 35 significant SNPs. We detect a two-locus SNP-SNP interaction between APOA5 and LPL; the most significant genotype combination is rs331-GG with rs651821-CC (bootstrap odds ratio = 1.76; p = 9.61 × 10⁻2⁰). MaODR also reveals a three-way interaction among APOA5, LPL, and CETP. Furthermore, we find that the LPL, APOA5, BUD13, zinc finger protein 1 (ZPR1), APOC3, CETP, and APOE genes collectively contributed to MetS susceptibility, with SNPs of LPL showing a significant metabolic syndrome-associated effect and interacting with SNPs of the APOA5 and CETP genes. Genes linked to metabolic syndrome are enriched in cholesterol metabolism and the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor signaling pathway.MaODR detects epistasis networks through SNP-SNP interactions in newly identified metabolic syndrome, highlighting APOA5-LPL and APOA5-LPL-CETP interaction models.© 2026. The Author(s).
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is marked by excessive deposition of extracellular matrix (ECM) and persistent fibroblast activation in the lungs, posing challenges for advancing effective treatment strategies. Danthron, a natural anthraquinone derivative extracted from traditional Chinese medicine rhubarb, exhibits antitumor and antioxidant efficacy.A bleomycin (BLM)-induced pulmonary fibrosis (PF) mouse model and human precision-cut lung slices (hPCLSs) stimulated with a pro-fibrotic solution were employed. The therapeutic effects of danthron on PF were measured by histological manifestations, immunostaining and expression levels of fibrotic markers. Human fibroblasts (HFs) were utilized to explore the underlying mechanism of danthron on fibroblast function.Our data showed that danthron significantly mitigated BLM-induced PF by reducing collagen deposition and Ashcroft scores in mice. Danthron also suppressed the abundance of fibrotic markers in mouse lungs and hPCLSs. Additionally, danthron impeded the transition of lung fibroblasts to myofibroblasts while promoting their dedifferentiation. Mechanistically, the anti-fibrotic effect of danthron was associated with the upregulation of carboxylesterase 3 (CES3), which consequently enhanced mitochondrial function and mitophagy in fibroblasts. Pharmacological CES3 inhibition (WWL229) reversed these effects, whereas genetic CES3 overexpression potentiated its mitochondrial benefits. Moreover, WWL229 nullified the beneficial effects of danthron in BLM-induced PF. The downregulation of CES3 was identified in IPF patients, which exhibited a negative correlation with fibrotic genes.This study demonstrated danthron as a valuable experimental tool for identifying relevant targets in preclinical models while underscoring CES3 as a potential therapeutic target for PF.© 2026. The Author(s).
Ervogastat (PF-06865571) is a potent and selective small-molecule inhibitor of diacylglycerol-O-acyltransferase-2 currently in clinical development for treating metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis with liver fibrosis. A fixed sequence 2-period 14C-microtracer crossover study was used to determine a comprehensive and quantitative overview of the total disposition of ervogastat after oral and intravenous administration. From these studies, ervogastat was determined to have a systemic clearance of 23.9 L/h, a volume of distribution of 38.8 L, extent of oral absorption of ∼93%, time to maximum plasma concentration of ∼3.0 hours, and absolute oral bioavailability of ∼75%. The plasma half-lives of both ervogastat and total radioactivity were similar, with no indication of long-lived metabolites. The total recovery of [14C]ervogastat after oral administration was 79.0% ± 16.7%, with 48.9% ± 16.3% in the urine and 30.1% ± 2.9% in the feces. Ervogastat metabolites observed in human plasma, urine and feces generally can be assigned as originating from 1 of 4 primary metabolic pathways: amide bond hydrolysis (M2); tetrahydrofuran oxidation (M4/M5); O-de-ethylation (M1); and direct glucuronidation (584). The major circulating drug-related components were ervogastat (43.8%), M2 (36.6%), and M6 (11.3%). The major drug-related components detected in urine were M2 (24.9%) and coeluting M6 (des-ethyl sulfate), M7 (des-ethyl amide hydrolysis) and 584 (11.4%). In the feces, the predominant drug-related products were coeluting M4 and 426 (10.0%), M2 (7.0), M7 (6.3%), and M1 (4.5%). Reaction phenotyping was carried out using a subsequent qualitative followed by quantitative approach identifying CYP3A metabolism as the predominant route of in vitro metabolism. As assignment of metabolic pathways in the hADME study was complicated by chromatographically coeluting metabolites or metabolites arising from multiple possible primary pathways, fractional clearance ranges were derived by assigning metabolites to only one primary pathway at a time to represent a potential permutation followed by evaluation of all possible permutations. This novel approach allowed us to overcome the aforementioned confounding issues and, along with in vitro chemical inhibition results, permitted the assignment of the various metabolic pathways and enzymes involved in the metabolism of ervogastat. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: This study provides a comprehensive and quantitative overview of the disposition, clearance pathways, and pharmacokinetics in humans of ervogastat, a potent and selective inhibitor of diacylglycerol-O-acyltransferase-2 for the treatment of metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis with liver fibrosis.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Fenofibrate and other fibrates are peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha agonists that are used to lower plasma triglyceride (TG) levels. Although fibrates are effective in decreasing TG, their ability to reduce adverse cardiovascular events and cardiovascular mortality in clinical trials has been disappointing. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha agonists influence the expression of dozens of genes, but the mechanisms by which they lower TG levels are incompletely understood. Apolipoprotein A5 (APOA5) and angiopoietin-like proteins 3, 4, and 8 (ANGPTL3/4/8) are important regulators of intravascular TG metabolism. To explore if their regulation might explain the TG-lowering effect of fibrates, we examined the impact of fenofibrate on the expression of APOA5 and the ANGPTL3/4/8 proteins in mice and humans. In WT mice, fenofibrate reduced plasma TG levels, increased Angptl4 and Angptl3 transcripts in the liver, and reduced Angptl8 and Apoa5 transcripts. Fenofibrate also decreased plasma APOA5 levels and increased levels of ANGPTL3, ANGPTL3/8, ANGPTL4/8, and the C-terminal domain of ANGPTL4 (CD-ANGPTL4). These changes would be predicted to increase rather than decrease TG levels. The TG reduction by fenofibrate was maintained in Apoa5-deficient mice, further indicating that APOA5 is not involved in TG lowering by fenofibrate. In humans, fenofibrate reduced TG without increasing APOA5 levels or reducing ANGPTL3/8 levels. In addition, fenofibrate treatment increased levels of ANGPTL3, ANGPTL4/8, and CD-ANGPTL4. The collective human and mouse data suggest that APOA5 and ANGPTL3/4/8 proteins do not mediate fenofibrate-induced TG lowering. Our findings are noteworthy because elevated levels of ANGPTL3, ANGPTL4/8, and CD-ANGPTL4 are associated with increased cardiovascular mortality.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
BACKGROUND: Low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) and scavenger receptor class B member 1 (SCARB1) are essential regulators of systemic lipid homeostasis. Although dysregulated lipid metabolism is a hallmark of malignancy, the genetic associations between these receptors and the risks of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remain poorly understood. This study aimed to evaluate the impacts of LDLR and SCARB1 polymorphisms on the susceptibility to HCC and clinical biochemical profiles in a population with a high prevalence of viral hepatitis. METHODS: In this case‒control study, 81 HCC patients and 162 healthy controls were genotyped for the SCARB1 rs4238001 and LDLR rs688 and rs5925 variants by using an automated capillary electrophoresis system. The correlations between the genetic data and clinical markers of liver injury, including alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) levels, as well as low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels, were evaluated. Statistical analyses used logistic regression for risk estimation and nonparametric tests (medians and interquartile ranges) for biochemical correlations. RESULTS: The LDLR rs5925 polymorphism emerged as a major risk factor for HCC. According to the recessive model, compared with the reference genotypes, the homozygous CC genotype was associated with a 13.05-fold greater risk of HCC [Odds ratios (OR) = 13.05, 95% CI: 3.69–46.12; P < 0.001]. According to the dominant model, carriers of the minor C allele had a 6.94-fold increased risk of HCC (OR = 6.94, 95% CI: 3.82–12.60; P < 0.001). Additionally, the LDLR rs688 variant was linked to metabolic alterations, with the TT homozygotes having significantly higher LDL-C levels (P = 0.025) and the CT heterozygotes having elevated ALT levels (P = 0.002). Notably, the rs5925 CC genotype strongly correlated with elevated AST levels (P = 0.022), which suggested a synergistic link between genetic predisposition and hepatocellular injury. Building on these findings, we conducted an interaction analysis, which supported an integrated ‘double-hit’ model, demonstrating for the first time how the synergy between LDLR and SCARB1 polymorphisms modulates the HCC risk through disrupted lipid homeostasis. CONCLUSION: The findings demonstrate that the LDLR rs5925 variant is a potent genetic marker for susceptibility to HCC. The association of LDLR variants with impaired lipid homeostasis and hepatic stress supports a ‘double-hit’ model in which genetic vulnerability and chronic viral hepatitis factors synergistically promote hepatocarcinogenesis. These results highlight the potential utility of genetic screening for personalized risk stratification of patients with chronic liver disease.
Alzheimer's disease (AD), an age-associated neurodegenerative disorder, is characterized by progressive cognitive decline, amyloid-β (Aβ) accumulation (including soluble oligomers and deposited aggregates), lipid dysregulation, and neuroinflammation. Although mutations in the amyloid precursor protein (APP) and accumulation of Aβ42 are established drivers of pathology, the mechanisms connecting oligomeric amyloid toxicity with lipid metabolism and inflammatory responses remain poorly understood. Here, we employed complementary Drosophila and mouse models to dissect these relationships. Panneuronal, glial or mushroom body specific expression of humanized AppNLG and Aβ42 in Drosophila resulted in locomotor deficits, disrupted sleep-circadian rhythms, memory impairments, lipid accumulation, synaptic loss, and neuroinflammatory signatures. Comparable lipid accumulation, metabolic dysregulation and neuroinflammation were detected in the AppNLG-F knock-in mouse model, underscoring their conserved relevance to AD pathogenesis. We further identified diacylglycerol O-acyltransferase 2 (Dgat2), a key enzyme catalyzing the final step of triglyceride synthesis, as a critical modulator of AD-related phenotypes. Dgat2 expression was altered in both animal models and human AD tissues. Notably, panneuronal knockdown of Dgat2 in Drosophila attenuated lipid accumulation, restored synaptic integrity, and ameliorated locomotor and cognitive deficits, while also reducing neuroinflammation. Additionally Dgat2 suppression improved sleep and circadian behavior, highlighting its pleiotropic protective effects. Together, these findings support a mechanistic link between amyloid pathology, lipid dysregulation, and neuroinflammatory processes. The conservation of lipid homeostasis mechanisms across species underscores the translational potential of this approach for delaying or mitigating AD progression. Moreover, targeting Dgat2 may therefore represent a novel therapeutic strategy to counteract AD-associated metabolic and neuronal dysfunction.© 2026 The Author(s). Aging Cell published by Anatomical Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Gestation represents a critical developmental window of fetal vulnerability to xenobiotic-induced disruptions of biological homeostasis. While xenobiotic transfer is primarily studied through maternal-fetal comparisons at delivery, its spatiotemporal distribution across gestation stages, particularly the transport mechanisms in early pregnancy, remains poorly understood. In this study, we reveal spatiotemporal heterogeneity of hydrophobic toxicants (including persistent organic pollutants such as medium-chain chlorinated paraffins [MCCPs] and hexabromocyclododecane) and endogenous metabolites in the developing placenta and fetus by mass spectrometry imaging (MSI). The stage of transition to hemotrophic nutrition is found as a critical window with fetal-to-maternal distribution ratios of xenobiotics approximately 8.4-38.2-times higher than those estimated at birth. At this critical stage, Scavenger Receptor Class B Member 1 (SR-B1) is identified as the key, stage-specific, and predominate transporter mediating fetal delivery of hydrophobic toxicants and lipids in early gestation through integration of spatial metabolomics and single-nucleus RNA sequencing of placental tissue. Finally, our findings demonstrate that early gestational exposure to MCCPs is associated with fetal neuro-lipotoxicity. The results highlight the urgent need to reduce early-pregnancy xenobiotic exposure for preventing toxicant-associated fetal lipid metabolic disruption.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41722228 is a review article
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is increasingly recognized as a systemic disorder, with skeletal muscle dysfunction contributing substantially to frailty and functional decline. Although amyloid-beta (Aβ) has been detected in peripheral tissues, including skeletal muscle, how it drives muscle degeneration and whether exercise can counteract this process remain to be elucidated.This study aimed to define the molecular mechanisms underlying Aβ-induced skeletal muscle degeneration in AD and assess the potential of high-intensity interval training (HIIT) to alleviate muscle dysfunction and related pathology.We employed a small-scale exploratory clinical cohort and the 5 × FAD mouse model, integrating transcriptomic and metabolomic profiling with in vitro and in vivo functional assays to dissect Aβ-induced muscle pathology and the protective mechanisms of HIIT.AD patients in the exploratory cohort showed a trend toward reduced handgrip strength, mirroring the progressive muscle weakness, myofiber atrophy, and intramuscular Aβ accumulation observed in 5 × FAD mice. Mechanistically, Aβ activated RAGE/NF-κB signaling, driving inflammation and oxidative stress in myofibers. HIIT reversed these pathological changes and concomitantly lowered Aβ levels. Transcriptomic profiling identified fibroblast growth factor 10 (FGF10) as a key exercise-induced mediator: FGF10 activated the FGFR2-AKT-ADAM10 axis to promote RAGE ectodomain shedding, generating soluble RAGE that suppressed Aβ-mediated inflammatory and injury signaling.Our findings define an Aβ-RAGE axis driving AD-associated muscle degeneration and reveal an exercise-responsive FGF10-RAGE protective pathway, reframing AD as a brain-muscle axis disorder and highlighting FGF10 as a promising target for systemic therapeutic intervention.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Cardiac hypertrophy is a major pathological feature of various cardiovascular diseases. Owing to the simple cardiac structure, rapid development, and genetic tractability, zebrafish are an ideal model for studying cardiac pathology. Zebrafish lacking Bone morphogenetic protein 10 (bmp10-/-) develop myocardial hypertrophy under normothermic conditions (28 °C). However, the long-term effects of chronic cold exposure on cardiac function and survival in this model remain unclear. Therefore, this study utilized the bmp10-/- zebrafish model to systematically evaluate the therapeutic potential of chronic hypothermia in attenuating myocardial hypertrophy and to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms.This study was conducted in three sequential phases.bmp10-/- (homozygous mutant, HO) zebrafish at 6 weeks post-fertilization (wpf) were maintained under normothermic (28 °C) or hypothermic (15 °C) conditions for 2 weeks to evaluate the effects of cold exposure on myocardial hypertrophy.Building on the Phase I findings, bmp10-/- zebrafish were subjected to adaptive temperature-switching between normothermic and hypothermic conditions until 10 wpf to assess the temporal effects of cold exposure on cardiac remodeling. Phase III: Pharmacological validation experiments were performed to identify key regulatory genes mediating hypothermia-induced cardioprotection.Long-term cold exposure significantly attenuated myocardial hypertrophy induced by bmp10 deficiency. Given that hypoxia-inducible factor-1 (HIF-1) is a canonical transcriptional regulator of cellular hypoxic responses and that the stability of HIF-1 is tightly controlled by prolyl hydroxylases such as Egl-9 family hypoxia-inducible factor 3 (EGLN3), the involvement of this pathway was further evaluated. These findings indicate that inhibition of EGLN3 activity stabilizes and activates HIF-1 signaling, thereby mediating cardioprotective effects under hypothermic conditions.This study elucidates the functional interplay between the EGLN3 and HIF-1 signaling pathways. Under chronic hypothermia, EGLN3 modulates HIF-1 stability, contributing to the downregulation of BCL2-interacting protein 3 (BNIP3) and facilitating cardiomyocyte injury repair.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Atherosclerosis is a chronic inflammatory vascular disease characterized by lipid deposition, endothelial dysfunction, and cellular senescence, posing a significant threat to the cardiovascular system. As demonstrated in previous studies, phlorizin has been shown to have anti-atherosclerotic effects. However, the precise molecular mechanisms by which this occurs remain to be elucidated. This study aimed to investigate the preventive effect of phlorizin on atherosclerosis and elucidate the molecular network mediated by bone morphogenetic protein 10 (BMP10). A total of 40 eight-week-old Apoe-/- mice were randomly divided into four groups (n = 10): control, model, phlorizin, and phlorizin+sh-BMP10 groups. Following a 12-week period of observation, phlorizin was found to have a significant impact on lipid metabolism disorders, whilst concomitantly inhibiting the formation of aortic sinus plaque. Furthermore, phlorizin was found to inhibit vascular endothelial cell senescence and inflammatory responses, whilst concomitantly modulating oxidative stress levels in mice. Transcriptome sequencing revealed that after phlorizin intervention, differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in mouse aortic tissue were significantly enriched in cellular senescence, cell-cell adhesion, and p53 signaling pathways. Among the phlorizin-regulated DEGs involved in atherosclerosis and cellular senescence, BMP10 emerged as a target for further investigation. Dual-luciferase reporter assay confirmed that phlorizin upregulates BMP10 by activating its promoter at the transcriptional level. In vitro experiments confirmed that phlorizin upregulates BMP10 expression, alleviates oxidative LDL-induced cellular senescence and lipid deposition, and enhances cellular angiogenic capacity and migratory function. The anti-AS effect of phlorizin depends on the Smad5 signaling pathway downstream of BMP10. Endothelial-specific BMP10 knockdown verified that the protective effect was specifically mediated by vascular endothelial cells. The efficacy of this approach was further validated through the use of sh-AAV-BMP10, which successfully induced BMP10 knockdown in mice. The knockdown efficiency of BMP10 at mRNA and protein levels was verified in aortic tissue. In addition, the in vitro interference of BMP10 expression in vascular endothelial cells using si-BMP10 further corroborated the anti-atherosclerotic effects of phlorizin, thereby confirming that BMP10 deficiency was entirely sufficient to reverse these effects. The results of molecular docking indicated stable interactions between phlorizin and both human and mouse BMP10. Mechanistically, phlorizin transcriptionally activates BMP10 and functions through the BMP10-Smad5 signaling axis to inhibit endothelial senescence, inflammation, and oxidative stress.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Severe coagulation and endothelial dysfunction are characteristics of sepsis-induced acute pulmonary coagulopathy with high morbidity and mortality. The primary objective of this research is to investigate the role rFGF10 in ameliorating sepsis-induced coagulation and endothelial dysfunction. FGF10 expression levels in sepsis-induced mice lung tissues and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulated Human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) were detected and the results showed that they were both elevated. Supplementation with rFGF10 protected HUVECs against LPS stimulation and ameliorated sepsis-induced pulmonary coagulation evidenced by the suppressed coagulation factors and alleviated lung injury. Mechanistically, rFGF10 activated Nrf2-modulated mitophagy by PINK1/Parkin pathway in septic mice, which maintained mitochondrial quality, promoted activities of anti-oxidation and suppressed mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (mtROS), therefore, suppressed phosphorylation of NF-𝑘B, Erk1/2 and P38, which thus, is crucial for rFGF10 protection against sepsis induced pulmonary coagulation. Suppression of Nrf2 with its inhibitor ML385 abolished all beneficial effects of rFGF10 on sepsis-induced mice. These findings revealed the therapeutic effects of rFGF10 on sepsis-induced pulmonary coagulation and endothelial dysfunction, which could be a potential pharmacological strategy for clinic.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Thoracic Society. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Biomarkers have the potential to improve risk prediction beyond clinical characteristics. We examined the association of four emerging cardiovascular biomarkers [angiopoietin 2 (Angpt2), bone morphogenetic protein 10 (BMP10), fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23), insulin-like growth factor binding protein 7 (IGFBP7)] in comparison with N-terminal pro B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) across the disease course of atrial fibrillation (AF).We enrolled patients from a prospective cohort of patients at risk of AF or with manifest arrhythmia. The circulating vascular biomarkers were quantified using high-throughput, high-precision precommercial assays (Roche Diagnostics). A combined endpoint comprised: stroke, transient ischaemic attack (TIA), myocardial infarction, incident coronary heart disease, heart failure, and all-cause mortality. Of the total n = 1047 individuals, n = 527 had prevalent AF, and n = 507 were free of AF at baseline. Median follow-up was 42 months. A total of n = 66 individuals died; the combined endpoint occurred in n = 198 individuals. All five biomarkers were significantly associated with the incidence of AF, both in multistate analysis (MSA) and Cox regression, although the association with FGF23 was only significant in the age- and sex-adjusted Cox model. AF recurrence was significantly associated with all biomarkers, most strongly with NT-proBNP. In prevalent AF, NT-proBNP, FGF23, and IGFBP7 were associated with the combined endpoint and all-cause mortality, and Angpt2 was associated with all-cause mortality. NT-proBNP showed the strongest association for all-cause mortality, and IGFBP7 for the combined endpoint in prevalent AF. In incident AF the association with the combined outcome was statistically significant for NT-proBNP in multivariable-adjusted models. All-cause mortality in individuals with incident AF was associated with NT-proBNP, Angpt2, FGF23, and IGFBP7 both in the MSA and Cox model.All novel biomarkers Angpt2, BMP10, FGF23, and IGFBP7 showed predictive value for incident and recurrent AF. Individual biomarkers showed distinct strengths in prediction of outcomes across the disease spectrum of AF.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) and advanced fibrotic stages are significant contributors to cirrhosis and liver-related mortality, yet no therapies directly target fibrosis in the later stages of the disease. Fibroblast growth factor 10 (FGF10) facilitates epithelial repair, yet its function and epithelial receptor requirements in chronic liver fibrogenesis are unclear.We quantified hepatic FGF10 and fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 (FGFR2) expression across fibrosis stages in biopsies from patients with MASLD and mouse models. We then augmented hepatic FGF10 using adeno-associated virus-mediated liver expression or subcutaneous recombinant human FGF10 in carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) and high-fat diet plus CCl4-induced advanced fibrosis. Histology, immunohistochemistry, biochemistry, RNA sequencing and primary hepatocytes and hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) assays were used to assess the therapeutic effects and underlying mechanisms.Hepatic FGF10 and FGFR2 protein expression were significantly reduced at advanced disease stages. Restoring FGF10 led to regression-associated remodelling of established bridging fibrosis, a decrease in inflammatory cytokines and a reduction in hepatocyte apoptosis, even with continued CCl4 exposure, indicating histologic regression rather than slowed progression. These therapeutic effects required hepatocyte FGFR2, as hepatocyte-specific FGFR2 deletion abolished protection and the associated transcriptional reprogramming of matrix and cytokine networks. In primary hepatocytes, FGF10 activated FGFR2-FGFR substrate 2α (‌FRS2α) signalling, increased inhibitory phosphorylation of glycogen synthase kinase 3β at Ser9 and suppressed nuclear factor kappa B, thereby lowering transforming growth factor β1 and other cytokines and indirectly limiting HSC activation. The efficacy extended to a high-fat diet plus CCl4 model of steatohepatitis.These findings elucidate a hepatocyte-centric FGF10-FGFR2 axis functioning as an epithelial regulator of inflammation and fibrogenesis. Hepatocyte-targeted reinforcement of FGFR2 signalling, alone or combined with metabolic therapies, represents a translational strategy to reprogram the fibrotic niche and facilitate fibrosis regression-associated architectural remodelling in advanced liver fibrosis.Hepatic FGF10 and FGFR2 decline consistently with fibrosis stage in patient liver biopsies and complementary mouse models. Restoring FGF10 through AAV-Fgf10 or recombinant FGF10 reduces hepatocyte apoptosis, inflammation and extracellular matrix deposition. Hepatocyte FGFR2 is required for FGF10-mediated antifibrotic effects and drives transcriptional reprogramming that limits fibrogenesis.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical and Translational Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Shanghai Institute of Clinical Bioinformatics.
Background: Pacemakers enable continuous long-term surveillance of atrial fibrillation detected by implanted devices. Circulating biomarkers reflecting endothelial dysfunction, inflammation, and myocardial stress may help identify patients at risk for atrial fibrillation (AF) progression and higher arrhythmic burden. Methods: This analysis included patients from the prospective ACaSA study (NCT05127720) with a dual chamber pacemaker (Microport® BOREA DR or TEO DR) and monitored weekly via remote monitoring technology (SMARTVIEW®). Individuals with permanent AF or single-chamber systems were excluded. Baseline plasma concentrations of angiopoietin-2 (ANGPT2), growth differentiation factor-15 (GDF-15), fibroblast growth factor-23 (FGF-23), bone morphogenetic protein-10 (BMP10), and tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand receptor-2 (TRAIL-R2) were quantified using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) was measured using electrochemiluminescence immunoassay. Biomarkers were log2-transformed, with values below assay detection limits imputed at half the lower limit of detection. Two endpoints were assessed following a 30-day blanking period: (1) progression to persistent AF, defined as ≥7 consecutive days with >99% daily AF burden, analyzed using Cox regression; and (2) AF burden, calculated as total AF time normalized to monitored days and categorized as <25%, 25-75%, or >75%, analyzed using multinomial logistic regression. Multivariable models were adjusted for age, sex, heart failure, diabetes, and prior myocardial infarction; Cox models were limited to age, sex, and heart failure due to fewer events. Results: A total of 223 patients were included (median age 75 years; 37.2% women). During follow-up, 28 patients (13.3%) progressed to persistent AF. Higher baseline ANGPT2 was the strongest predictor of progression (HR per doubling 1.83, 95% CI 1.27-2.66, p = 0.001), followed by GDF-15 (HR 1.52, 95% CI 1.03-2.24, p = 0.036). In the burden analysis, ANGPT2 demonstrated a pronounced graded relationship with arrhythmic load, with markedly increased odds of high (>75%) AF burden (OR 8.31, 95% CI 2.63-26.26, p < 0.001). GDF-15 independently predicted both medium (OR 2.05, p = 0.025) and high burden (OR 2.32, p = 0.037). NT-proBNP displayed a borderline association with high burden (OR 2.02, p = 0.061). No significant associations were observed for FGF-23, BMP10, or TRAIL-R2. Conclusions: In continuously monitored pacemaker patients, ANGPT2 and GDF-15 emerged as key biomarkers associated with AF disease severity. ANGPT2 was strongly linked to both progression to persistent AF and high AF burden, whereas GDF-15 consistently predicted higher AF burden and also contributed to risk of progression. These findings highlight endothelial and inflammatory pathways as potential markers of atrial disease progression.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42045927 is a review article
Hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) and their derived cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) are integral to the development, progression, and prognosis of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However, the mechanisms underlying the transformation of HSCs into CAFs and their subsequent roles in HCC remain incompletely understood. The expression of METTL3 was analyzed in fibroblasts infiltrating into human HCC specimens compared with adjacent nontumor tissues. The effects of HSC-specific METTL3 deficiency on HCC were analyzed by orthotopically implanting hepatoma cells into the fibrotic mouse livers, as well as through direct and indirect co-culture systems. We found that the expression of METTL3, the methyltransferase responsible for RNA N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification, was downregulated in fibroblasts infiltrating into HCC compared with that of adjacent nontumor tissues. Orthotopical implantation of HCC cells in the fibrotic liver showed that HSC-specific METTL3 deficiency significantly increased tumor burden. Furthermore, conditioned medium treatment and mixed coculture confirmed that METTL3 deletion in HSCs promoted HCC proliferation and migration in vitro, demonstrating that METTL3 deficiency in HSCs accelerated HCC progression in the fibrotic liver. Mechanistically, METTL3 deficiency reduced m6A modification and expression of bone morphogenetic protein 10 (BMP10), a known tumor suppressor. Similar to the effects of METTL3 deficiency, BMP10 knockdown also promoted hepatoma cell growth, whereas recombinant BMP10 (rBMP10) inhibited it. Notably, BMP10 overexpression or rBMP10 supplementation effectively mitigated the tumor-promoting effects of METTL3-deficient HSCs. BMP10's effects were mediated through SMAD1/5/8 phosphorylation. Collectively, our study reveals a novel crosstalk between HSCs and hepatoma cells via the METTL3/m6A-BMP10-SMAD1/5/8 axis, highlighting a potential therapeutic target for HCC.In this study, we found that HSC-specific METTL3 deficiency significantly accelerated HCC progression in the fibrotic liver. Mechanistically, METTL3 deficiency reduced m6A modification and expression of BMP10 and the downstream SMAD1/5/8 phosphorylation. This study reveals a novel crosstalk between HSCs and hepatoma cells, suggesting a potential therapeutic target for HCC.©2026 The Authors; Published by the American Association for Cancer Research.
The role of inflammation-induced myeloid-biased hematopoiesis in driving resistance to immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) is recognized, yet the intricate mechanisms through which tumors orchestrate it are not fully defined.MC38 tumor and Lewis lung cancer models were performed to evaluate hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) differentiation biased. Key pro-inflammatory cytokines implicated in this process were screened through ELISA assay and bioinformatic analysis. Subsequent mechanistic investigations identified the central transcription factor governing tumor-induced myeloid-biased differentiation of HSCs. To demonstrate the functional impact on antitumor immunity, we quantified HSC-derived myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) and assessed their suppressive effects on T cell function. Furthermore, the therapeutic potential of targeting this axis was evaluated using Emapalumab, an anti-IFN-γ antibody, to determine whether suppressing myeloid-biased HSCs could enhance the antitumor effects of ICB.Here, we found HSCs exhibit a persistent myeloid-biased differentiation phenotype in MC38 tumor and Lewis lung cancer models, which was induced by the pro-inflammatory cytokines IFN-γ. Transcriptional profiling indicated Meis homeobox 1 (Meis1) was enriched in tumor primed HSCs, and ablation of Meis1 in HSCs prevented HSCs-associated myeloid cell differentiation. The resulting HSC-derived MDSCs were identified as key factors of tumor progression. Therapeutic targeting of the myeloid differentiation axis with a combination of anti-PD-1 antibody and Emapalumab, an anti-IFN-γ antibody inhibited HSC-derived MDSCs production and enhanced T cells-mediated adaptive immunity to suppress tumor progression.Our results highlight HSC-directed therapy as a novel approach for cancer treatment. Combining anti-PD-1 with Emapalumab potently enhances the response to ICB, offering a promising strategy to achieve superior and durable anticancer efficacy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Myasthenia gravis (MG) is a B-cell-mediated autoimmune disease characterized by impaired neuromuscular transmission. Although genetic predisposition and thymic abnormalities are well recognized, they cannot fully explain the increasing incidence and regional heterogeneity of MG, highlighting the potential contribution of environmental factors. Bisphenol A (BPA), a ubiquitous endocrine-disrupting chemical, exhibits estrogenic activity, immunomodulatory effects, and mitochondrial toxicity, and has been implicated in multiple autoimmune disorders. However, the potential role of BPA in MG pathogenesis remains largely unexplored.BPA-related targets and MG-associated genes were collected from public databases, and overlapping targets were identified. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses were performed to explore the biological functions and pathways of the overlapping targets. Candidate targets were screened using four machine-learning algorithms, including least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression, support vector machine-recursive feature elimination (SVM-RFE), random forest (RF), and extreme gradient boosting (XGBoost). Differential expression and diagnostic performance were validated using the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) dataset GSE85452. Immune infiltration was assessed using CIBERSORT. Molecular docking and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations were conducted to evaluate the potential binding stability and interaction modes between BPA and key target proteins. In addition, C2C12 myoblasts were treated with different concentrations of BPA for 24 h, and cell viability was assessed using the Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) assay. Based on the cell viability results, 50 μM BPA was selected for quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and Western blot analyses of key genes.A total of 225 overlapping targets were identified between BPA exposure-related targets and MG-associated genes. Enrichment analyses showed that these targets were mainly associated with ion transport, membrane potential regulation, muscle system processes, immune signaling, apoptosis, endocrine resistance, and AGE-RAGE signaling pathways.Four machine-learning algorithms identified cholinergic receptor nicotinic beta 1 subunit (CHRNB1), KRAS proto-oncogene, GTPase (KRAS), phosphomannomutase 2 (PMM2), and toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) as candidate targets. Validation in the GSE85452 dataset showed that CHRNB1, PMM2, and TLR4 were significantly upregulated in MG samples compared with control samples, whereas KRAS showed no significant difference. receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis further demonstrated that CHRNB1, PMM2, and TLR4 had good diagnostic performance, with area under the ROC curve (AUC) values of 0.827, 0.856, and 0.821,respectively. Immune infiltration analysis revealed altered immune cell infiltration patterns and associations between key targets and specific immune cell subsets. Molecular docking predicted favorable binding of BPA to CHRNB1, PMM2, and TLR4, with binding energies of -7.4, -5.7, and -5.8 kcal/mol, respectively. MD simulations further supported the potential stability of these BPA-target complexes. In vitro experiments showed that BPA reduced C2C12 cell viability in a concentration-dependent manner. qRT-PCR validation showed that treatment with 50 μM BPA significantly upregulated Chrnb1 expression, while downregulating Pmm2 and Tlr4 expression.Western blot analysis further confirmed that BPA exposure significantly decreased the protein expression of TLR4 and PMM2, while increasing that of CHRNB1 in C2C12 cells.This study provides integrated computational and experimental evidence that BPA exposure may be associated with MG-related molecular alterations. BPA may affect MG-related biological processes through the regulation of ion transport, neuromuscular signaling, immune activation, and glycosylation-related metabolism. CHRNB1, PMM2, and TLR4 may serve as potential molecular links between BPA exposure and MG-related pathological processes.Copyright: © 2026 Wu et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42386216 is a review article
Weaning stress is a prevalent pathological condition in pig farming, primarily triggered by factors such as nutritional imbalance, oxidative stress, inflammation, and bacterial infections. In this study, response surface methodology was first employed to optimize the preparation process of Codonopsis pilosula-Glycyrrhiza uralensis extract (CGe). Dietary supplementation with CGe for 28 days revealed that 1% CGe significantly increased the growth performance of weaned piglets, enhanced antioxidant capacity, and promoted intestinal microbiota balance, demonstrating a favorable safety profile. Subsequently, by integrating Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database mining with machine learning, we identified cathepsin D (CTSD), alpha-1-microglobulin/bikunin precursor (AMBP), and prosaposin (PSAP) as potential biomarkers of weaning stress. Among these biomarkers, AMBP showed significant positive correlations with M0 macrophages, mast cells, and neutrophils, and a negative correlation with M1 macrophages, suggesting its involvement in macrophage polarization during weaning stress. Molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations further revealed that liquiritin, a key bioactive component of CGe, formed a stable interaction with AMBP and exhibited low binding energy. This interaction likely underpins its potential to mediate anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidant effects. These results indicate that AMBP is a promising target for alleviating weaning stress, and CGe has potential as an eco-friendly feed additive for improving the health of weaned piglets.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) is crucial for heart failure diagnosis. However, immunoassays are vulnerable to heterophilic antibody interference, which may lead to false-positive results and significant clinical mismanagement. Studies suggest such interference may account for a notable proportion of unexplained biomarker elevations. This report describes a case of a 36-year-old female with a markedly elevated BNP (2735.7 ± 54.3 pg/mL) incongruent with her clinical presentation. Therefore, we conducted a detailed analysis through a stepwise investigation, including serial dilution (showing non-linear recovery), cross-platform comparison (normal result on an alternative platform), and heterophilic blocking reagent treatment (partial correction). Ultimately, the addition of purified mouse IgG, but not anti-goat IgG or IgM blockers, normalized the BNP level in a dose-dependent manner, confirming human anti-mouse antibody (HAMA) interference. This case demonstrates that such interference is one of the potential causes of unexplained elevations in clinical immunoassay results. A systematic workflow was established in the case, ranging from suspicion to confirmation and ultimately to laboratory-adoptable conclusions. This process facilitates accurate diagnosis and helps clinicians avoid unnecessary interventions.
Myocardial ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury remains a leading cause of cardiovascular morbidity. However, due to the unclear underlying molecular mechanisms, effective therapeutic approaches are still lacking. This study aims to investigate the function and downstream mechanism of the lysosomal protein prosaposin (PSAP) in regulating ceramide homeostasis and cardiomyocyte apoptosis during acute I/R injury. In our study, we found that PSAP expression was significantly downregulated in the heart subjected to acute I/R surgery. Restoration of PSAP protein via AAV9-PSAP-OE in vivo significantly reduced infarct size and attenuated cardiomyocyte apoptosis. Similarly, PSAP overexpression in OGD/R-treated primary cardiomyocytes (NRCMs) decreased apoptosis, while PSAP knockdown exacerbated apoptosis. Mechanistically, PSAP accelerates the ceramide degradation pathway by rescuing the expression of the lysosomal N-acylsphingosine amidohydrolase 1 (ASAH1), thereby attenuating I/R-induced ceramide accumulation and cardiomyocyte apoptosis. Our results reveal a novel mechanism of PSAP function and highlight its potential as a therapeutic target for acute myocardial I/R injury.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10) is an essential lipid-soluble antioxidant and a key component of the mitochondrial electron transport chain, playing critical roles in cellular redox homeostasis and energy metabolism. Although organ-specific differences in CoQ10 levels have been reported in humans, the mechanisms underlying tissue-specific regulation of CoQ10 remain poorly understood. Moreover, species differences in the predominant CoQ isoform limit the suitability of conventional rodent models for studying human CoQ10 metabolism, aging, and disease. In this study, we aimed to explore factors contributing to organ-specific CoQ10 levels and to establish fundamental reference data for medaka (Oryzias latipes), a vertebrate model that endogenously synthesizes CoQ10. CoQ10 concentrations in multiple organs were quantified by high-performance liquid chromatography. Levels of vitamin E and free cholesterol were also measured. Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) content was assessed as an index of mitochondrial abundance, and expression of CoQ10 biosynthetic enzymes, the CoQ-binding protein prosaposin (Psap), and 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase was analyzed by RT-qPCR. CoQ10 was detected in all organs examined, with the highest levels observed in the heart and liver, followed by the kidney and brain, and lower levels in skeletal muscle and the digestive tract. No significant sex-dependent differences were observed. CoQ10 levels were positively associated with PDSS2 expression and mtDNA content, while Psap expression showed strong positive correlations with multiple CoQ-related genes. These findings provide insight into factors associated with tissue-specific CoQ10 distribution and support medaka as a physiologically relevant model for investigating CoQ10 metabolism, oxidative stress, aging, and disease.
Postoperative immune suppression, driven by transforming growth factor β (TGFβ)-mediated dendritic cell (DC) dysfunction, significantly impairs antigen-specific T cell responses and elevates cancer recurrence risk. A key mechanism is TGFβ-mediated lysosomal incompetence in DCs, resulting from loss of lysosomal prosaposin (pSAP). Herein, we developed an in vivo-generated DC vaccine, BAIT (boosting antigen-delivering immunovaccine for T cell priming), which integrated DC recruitment, antigen delivery, and immune activation within a single platform. Inspired by arginine metabolism-driven lysosomal biogenesis and acidification, BAITs were designed with an arginine-enriched self-assembling peptide backbone, in which tumor lysate antigens and CCL20 co-assembled via coordination interactions. When administered early post-surgery, BAITs recruited DCs, promoted antigen internalization, and activated the mTOR pathway to upregulate pSAP expression. This BAIT-driven DC modulation reversed TGFβ-induced impairments in antigen digestion and MHC-peptide complex formation. To optimize precision immunotherapy, we employed a functional precision medicine approach by customizing tumor lysate preparations induced via ferroptosis, necroptosis, or apoptosis. In a murine postoperative cancer model, Apo-BAITs formulated with apoptotic lysates achieved an 85.5% reduction in tumor burden. These findings demonstrate that BAITs target the lysosomal mTOR-pSAP axis to restore DC function, providing a personalized postoperative cancer vaccine strategy to counter surgery-induced immune suppression.© 2026 The Authors. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd.
Heart rhythm and contraction are initiated by electrical impulses generated by the sinoatrial node (SAN) and modulated by intrinsic cardiac neural inputs. Despite its physiological importance, human in vitro systems that recapitulate neural-SAN interactions are lacking. Here, we develop SAN-plexus assembloids by integrating human pluripotent stem cell-derived SAN organoids (SANOs) with cardiac ganglionated plexus organoids (CGPOs), together with atrial-like cardiac organoids, to model pacemaker-to-atrial conduction in a tri-assembloid system. This platform exhibits molecular, structural, and electrophysiological features of human pacemaker activity and enables functional interrogation of neural control over SAN automaticity, including disease-associated conduction dysfunction. By integrating spatial transcriptomics of human SAN tissue with assembloid-based functional analyses, we identify a neuron-to-pacemaker signaling program in which CGPO-derived prosaposin engages the SAN-enriched receptor GPR37 to promote pacemaker maturation. Together, this work establishes SAN-plexus assembloids as a human platform for studying intrinsic neuro-cardiac interactions in pacemaker development and disease.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Ponesimod demonstrated efficacy and safety in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) in 24-week phase-2 core study, further confirmed by an interim combined analysis of the core and open-label long-term extension (LTE) studies (NCT01093326; up to 8 years). Current study evaluated safety and efficacy of ponesimod using combined core and LTE studies data for up to 13 years.Of 393 participants completing the core study, 353 (90%) entered LTE, having 3 treatment periods (TP). In TP1 (∼1.85 years), participants continued core treatment (ponesimod: 10, 20, or 40 mg QD) whereas placebo-treated participants were re-randomized (1:1:1) to respective ponesimod doses. In TP2 (TP2 and TP3 combined duration: ∼10.4 years), participants on 40 mg were re-randomized (1:1) to 10/20 mg, while others continued same dose; in TP3 all participants received 20 mg. Study outcomes included safety and efficacy (ARR, time-to 24-week confirmed-disability-accumulation [24-week CDA], total T1-weighted Gadolinium-enhanced (T1 Gd+) lesions, new/enlarging T2 lesions and Combined Unique Active Lesions [CUALs]).For 20 mg dose, total 92.4% participants experienced ≥1 TEAEs (73.1% mild/moderate severity) and 19 (13%) participants discontinued study. Mean (95% CI) ARR=0.14 (0.10-0.20); Kaplan-Meier estimate (95% CI) of confirmed relapse and 24-week CDA=52.5% (42.3-63.5) and 31.3% (22.6-42.3). Mean [SD] T1 Gd+ lesions decreased from ponesimod baseline (2.62 [7.06]) to 12.4 years (0.26 [1.48]), mean (95% CI) CUALs per participant/year=3.97 (2.75-5.73).Ponesimod treatment for up to 13 years was not associated with new safety concerns. Participants continued to experience low levels of disease activity consistently across clinical and MRI outcomes.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is a common and highly lethal malignancy. Tribbles pseudokinase 3 (TRIB3) has been reported to exert oncogenic roles in the pathogenesis of multiple tumors; nevertheless, the detailed mechanisms through which TRIB3 drives RCC development remain largely undefined. In this study, qPCR and Western blot were used to quantify the levels of TRIB3, STIP1 homology and U-box containing protein 1 (STUB1), and activating transcription factor 2 (ATF2). Cell proliferation, invasion, stemness, and angiogenic capacity were assessed by MTT assay, flow cytometry, Transwell invasion assay, sphere-formation assay, and tube-formation assay, respectively. The interaction between TRIB3 and STUB1 was examined by co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP), and the relationship between TRIB3 and ATF2 was verified using dual-luciferase reporter assays. A xenograft model was employed to evaluate the tumorigenic potential of RCC cells upon STUB1 overexpression. The study found that TRIB3 expression was markedly elevated in RCC. Knockdown of TRIB3 profoundly inhibited cell proliferation, invasion, migration, and stem-like properties, while simultaneously inducing apoptosis and promoting ferroptosis. TRIB3 physically interacted with STUB1 and was poly-ubiquitinated and degraded by this E3 ligase; consequently, STUB1 overexpression suppressed RCC progression both in vitro and in vivo by targeting TRIB3. Conversely, ATF2 transcriptionally activated TRIB3 expression, and enforced TRIB3 expression partially rescued the inhibitory effects of ATF2 knockdown in RCC cells. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that TRIB3 drives RCC progression; STUB1 curbs RCC by degrading TRIB3, whereas ATF2 promotes RCC via transcriptional activation of TRIB3. Thus, modulating TRIB3 expression may offer a novel therapeutic strategy for RCC.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Japan Human Cell Society.
Natriuretic peptide receptor 2 (NPR2) expression in the hypertrophic zone of the growth plate is essential for endochondral ossification. Heterozygous variants in the NPR2 gene have been identified in 2-6 % of idiopathic short stature cases. Here, we present a large family with a novel heterozygous NPR2 variant, detailing endocrine features and long-term recombinant human growth hormone (rhGH) therapy outcomes.A total of 18 subjects among the family exhibited short stature. The proband was a 5.2-year-old boy presenting with proportionate short stature, delayed bone age, facial abnormalities, premature delivery, small for gestational age and hypospadias. Whole-exome sequencing revealed a novel heterozygous variant, c.553G>A variant, in the NPR2 gene, leading to the missense variant site in the extracellular ligand-binding domain of NPR2 protein. All the family members with NPR2 gene mutation demonstrated marked short stature, except for four subjects. Five other children who received rhGH therapy were also included in the results. The difference between bone age and chronological age in all six children ranged from -2.3 to 0 years. The average height SDS before rhGH treatment ranged from -4.01 to -1.20 (-2.59 ± 1.16). The treatment has lasted for 4.68 ± 2.68 years, and height SDS improved by 1.54 ± 0.78 after rhGH therapy.Our study confirms NPR2 variants as a cause of familial short stature (FSS), with variability in phenotypes, clinical features, and rhGH response, even within families. Early genetic testing might be crucial for offspring with FSS, as it allows for timely initiation of rhGH therapy.© 2026 Walter de Gruyter GmbH, Berlin/Boston.
Pulmonary edema due to vascular endothelial injury in donor lungs reduces organ utilization and exacerbates ischemia/reperfusion injury, resulting in poor posttransplant outcomes. Sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) improves vascular integrity through S1P receptor 1 (S1PR1) signaling. This study assessed whether S1PR1 agonism during ex vivo lung perfusion (EVLP) reduces vascular permeability and edema formation in human donor lungs.S1PR1 agonist CYM5442 was administered to human donor lungs declined for transplant, during 6 h of EVLP, using a paired split-lung model with one lung treated and the other acting as an internal control. Lung physiology, organ weight, vascular endothelial permeability to Evan's blue dye, and direCt Lung Ultrasound Evaluation score for lung water were assessed. Sequential perfusate and tissue samples were collected to evaluate gene and protein expression.During EVLP (n = 7 paired sets), CYM5442 reduced Evan's blue accumulation in bronchoalveolar lavage (P = 0.0260) and tissue (P = 0.0476). Increases in lung weight were ameliorated and direCt Lung Ultrasound Evaluation scores reduced in the CYM5442-treated group post-EVLP (P = 0.0135 and P = 0.0482, respectively), leading to reduced pulmonary artery and peak airway pressures (interaction P = 0.0038 and P < 0.0001). CYM5442 maintained vascular endothelial cadherin expression and reduced interleukin-6 (P = 0.0130, 360 min), interleukin-1 beta (P = 0.0214, 240 min), and soluble intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (P = 0.0067, 360 min) release compared with untreated during EVLP.Agonism of S1PR1 during EVLP ameliorates pulmonary vascular leak and may be used to reduce the risk of edema formation in donor lungs.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
The development of human-relevant in vitro cardiac models is essential for evaluating cardiotoxicity and drug efficacy. Although wingless-related integration site signaling-based protocols have enabled cardiomyocyte (CM) differentiation from pluripotent stem cells, issues such as low efficiency, immature phenotype, and variability across cell lines remain to be resolved. Here, we present an improved differentiation strategy that robustly enhances both the efficiency and functional maturity of CMs, comparable to the functional characteristics of human adult myocardial tissue. Although fetal bovine serum enhanced differentiation, we disclosed that the interaction between sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) and its receptor S1PR1 is a major contributor. Gene-based and protein-based analyses and electrophysiological analysis via multielectrode array confirmed that activation of S1PR1 using S1P or its agonist SEW2871 increased the generation of spontaneously beating CMs, whereas S1PR1-deficient pluripotent stem cells exhibited impaired differentiation and functional maturity of S1P-S1PR1-derived CMs. Furthermore, we observed improved cardiac function and reduced fibrosis in a myocardial infarction mouse model induced by left descending artery ligation following transplantation of CMs differentiated more robustly by treatment with S1P or SEW2871. Collectively, S1PR1 activator-treated CMs offer a cost-effective platform for drug discovery and regenerative medicine.© 2026. The Author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42393136
Synthetic ligands of retinoic acid receptor γ (RARγ) and vitamin D receptor (VDR) can act as agonists or antagonists by reshaping receptor conformation and cofactor recruitment, yet the structural and energetic determinants of this selectivity remain incompletely defined. Here, we present an integrated structural and thermodynamic analysis combining conformational characterization, molecular dynamics simulations, and molecular mechanics Poisson-Boltzmann surface area calculations to compare representative agonists and antagonists of human RARγ and VDR. Binding free energies and effective enthalpic contributions were evaluated for selected ligands, whereas the apparent entropic term, estimated indirectly as -TΔSapp = ΔGbind - ΔHeff, was used only as a qualitative internal descriptor. The thermodynamic profiles indicate that effective enthalpic stabilization is a more informative comparative descriptor than binding free energy alone, with clear agonist-antagonist separation for RARγ and a directional, less statistically resolved trend for VDR. These energetic patterns were interpreted alongside ligand-dependent stabilization of helix 12 and receptor-ligand interaction networks. Newly determined MicroED structures of AGN194310 and AGN205728 were incorporated as ligand-specific conformational references, improving structural definition without being treated as direct evidence of receptor-bound bioactive conformations. Comparative analysis of RARγ and VDR suggests that functional selectivity is not governed solely by affinity but emerges from the interplay among ligand-binding energetics, interaction networks, and receptor conformational dynamics. These results provide a retrospective mechanistic benchmark for interpreting agonist- and antagonist-associated behavior in nuclear receptors and may guide future studies on functionally selective modulators.
The aims of the study were to evaluate factors influencing the resumption of postpartum ovarian activity and to compare hormone concentrations among mares with physiological/pathological postpartum period and cyclic non-lactating mares. Follicular dynamics were monitored ultrasonographically in 38 postpartum mares from foaling or admission (Tpp/Ta) every other day until the emergence of a dominant follicle (Td), then daily until ovulation (To). Blood samples were collected at Tpp/Ta, Td, and To in postpartum mares and at Td and To in cyclic mares to determine serum estradiol, progesterone, leptin and cortisol concentrations. Ovulation occurred in 34/38 (90%) mares. The χ2 test showed that ovulation was significantly more frequent in mares with physiological postpartum (p = 0.005), in multiparous (p = 0.03) and in lactating mares (p = 0.00011). Age and foaling month were not associated with ovulation. In physiological postpartum mares, estradiol and progesterone concentrations decreased significantly over time (p = 0.002; p = 0.004 respectively), whereas leptin and cortisol remained unchanged. No significant temporal changes were observed for any hormone in mares with pathological postpartum or in cyclic mares. Hormone concentrations did not differ significantly among groups at any time point. Progesterone concentrations at Tpp/Ta were lower in primiparous mares (p = 0.048). Overall, parity, type of postpartum and lactation status influenced the likelihood of postpartum ovulation. Although hormone concentrations were largely comparable among groups, pathological postpartum mares exhibited delayed or absent ovulation, suggesting that postpartum disorders may affect the resumption of ovarian activity.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
This study aims to investigate the influence of age and gender on the efficacy of metabolic surgery in patients with obesity with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM).This is a prospective cohort study. A total of 95 patients with obesity and T2DM who underwent metabolic surgery between June 2022 and October 2024 were enrolled. Patients were divided into four groups based on their age and gender as follows: young (<35 years) men, young women, middle-aged (35-55 years) men and middle-aged women. Body mass index (BMI) data, glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c) levels and gastrointestinal peptide hormone (e.g. glucagon- like peptide-1 (GLP-1), peptide YY (PYY) and ghrelin (GHRL)) levels, as well as Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale and Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D) scores, were collected preoperatively and at 1, 3 and 6 months postoperatively. Gastrointestinal peptide hormone levels were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and anxiety and depression statuses were assessed using online questionnaires. Data were analysed using repeated measures analysis of variance, paired t-tests, analysis of covariance and multiple linear regression, with adjustments for baseline BMI, diabetes duration and surgical type (laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy vs Roux-en-Y gastric bypass) where appropriate.Both BMI and HbA1c levels decreased significantly in all groups postoperatively, with a greater reduction observed in the younger groups compared with the middle-aged groups at the 6- month timepoint (adjusted p < 0.01). The percentage of total weight loss was lower in women than in men (mean difference: 2.8%, 95% confidence interval: 1.1-4.5, p = 0.03). Among gastrointestinal peptide hormones, GLP-1, PYY and cholecystokinin (CCK) significantly increased, whereas GHRL, insulin (INS) and leptin significantly decreased postoperatively. The increase in GLP-1 was more pronounced in the younger groups than in the middle-aged groups (r = -0.312, p < 0.05). Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale scores were negatively correlated with INS (r = -0.297, p < 0.05) and positively correlated with GHRL (r = 0.286, p < 0.05), whereas HAM-D scores were negatively correlated with CCK (r = -0.258, p < 0.05). Multivariate analysis revealed that younger age (β = -0.251, p = 0.004), female gender (β = 0.178, p = 0.041), and higher HAM-A scores (β = 0.327, p = 0.002) were independent factors influencing the significant changes observed in gastrointestinal hormone levels.Individualised treatment plans based on patient age, gender and psychological status should be developed in clinical practice, and lifestyle and psychological interventions should be developed further to improve surgical outcomes and maintain the long-term efficacy of metabolic surgery.Metabolic surgery is effective in patients with obesity with T2DM, with younger patients experiencing greater metabolic improvement.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Obesity, a major health issue linked to metabolic disorders, is driven by multiple factors, including impaired leptin signaling, particularly in the Janus kinase 2 (JAK2)/Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) pathway. This study investigated the impact of aldehyde-containing food additives on leptin receptor activated signaling in cells. We examined the effects of 39 different aldehyde-containing compounds, commonly used in food additives, on leptin-induced STAT3 transcriptional activity through a reporter gene assay. Three aldehydes, i.e., 2-pyrrolecarboxaldehyde, o-anisaldehyde, and piperonal were found to reduce leptin-induced STAT3 transcriptional activity in a concentration-dependent manner without affecting cell viability. These additives did not alter conformational changes of the leptin receptor, STAT3 phosphorylation, or its nuclear translocation, nor did they induce endoplasmic reticulum stress. These additives likely affect a downstream step in leptin signaling, specifically transcriptional regulation by STAT3, without disrupting early receptor signaling events. These finding suggest that some aldehyde-based food additives may contribute to leptin resistance and potentially to the development of obesity.Copyright © 2026 Shibuya, Yoshida, Tsuge, Hamasaki, Kuriya, Nakagawa, Sugiyama, Miyamoto, Shimamoto, Jockers, Dam and Hosoi.
Probiotic-fermented dairy products are increasingly recognized for their dual role in nutrient optimization and disease prevention. This study investigated the mechanisms by which Bifidobacterium animalis subsp. lactis Probio-M8 fermented milk enhances digestive efficiency and protects against dextran sulfate sodium-induced colitis in rats. FM8 supplementation promoted weight gain without excessive adipogenesis, elevated leptin levels, and amplified sucrase, lactase, aminopeptidase, and lipase activities, outperforming conventional fermented milk. Metagenomic analysis revealed microbial restructuring with Corynebacterium glutamicum and Bifidobacterium animalis enrichment, and increased short-chain fatty acids.Untargeted metabolomics identified FM8-responsive metabolites, including p-hydroxybenzaldehyde and indole-3-carboxaldehyde, linked to anti-inflammatory pathways. In dextran sulfate sodium-challenged rats, FM8 pre-administration attenuated colitis severity by reducing disease activity index scores, normalizing colon histology, and suppressing interleukin (IL)-6 and IL-17 while elevating IL-10 and IL-22. Mechanistically, FM8 enriched Bifidobacterium animalis and butyrate levels, which inversely correlated with mucosal injury and pro-inflammatory cytokines. These findings demonstrate that FM8 enhances gastrointestinal health through tripartite microbiota-metabolite-immune interactions, highlighting its functional potential for metabolic optimization and colitis prevention.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Imbalance in energy intake and energy expenditure due to changes in lifestyle and genetic issues results in obesity, which is a serious health problem. Appetite-inducing signals and satiety peptides in the enteroendocrine system have a definite role in the management of obesity. To regulate food intake and digestive signals, gut-derived satiety peptides act in a coordinated network to regulate appetite and metabolic homeostasis. Among these peptides, obestatin has garnered interest for its role in modulating food intake and obesity-associated lipid parameters, as demonstrated in mouse models. This study investigates the interaction among major satiety peptides in the enteroendocrine system on administration of obestatin and its fragment analog, Nt8U, for 30 days. Obestatin and Nt8U, along with a positive control, Orlistat, were administered to high-fat fed mice. Circulating Cholecystokinin-8 (CCK-8) levels increased in obestatin-treated mice but decreased with Nt8U, while Oxyntomodulin (OXM) levels increased by 20% in the obestatin group. In contrast, glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) levels were reduced following obestatin and orlistat treatment. These alterations were accompanied by significant changes in intestinal mRNA expression of the corresponding peptide precursors, suggesting altered gene expression. Long-term indicators of energy stores, including leptin and adiponectin, were reduced across all treatment groups, while insulin levels were significantly decreased in obestatin-treated mice. These hormonal changes were associated with reductions in body weight, plasma total cholesterol, and triglycerides. Collectively, these findings indicate that obestatin and Nt8U administration altered circulating satiety peptide concentrations and the intestinal expression of genes encoding gut-derived satiety hormones. These coordinated changes suggest modulation of metabolic hormone networks associated with energy balance in diet-induced obesity.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Native cows are known for their extraordinary resilience, thanks to a long process of adaptation to specific environmental and management conditions that has shaped their physiological and metabolic traits. Despite the growing interest in these breeds, many biological mechanisms remain largely unexplored. Among these, the peripartum period represents a delicate phase in which the ability to maintain homeostasis is challenged by endocrine and immune adaptations. This preliminary study aimed to investigate the peripartum period in the native Rubia gallega breed by evaluating serum concentrations of cortisol, haptoglobin, leptin, IL-1β, IL-6, and TNF-α. In this study, 15 multiparous cows were enrolled and monitored from -15 to + 15 days before calving. With the exception of leptin (P > 0.05), all parameters investigated were affected by time to calving (P < 0.05). The cows examined showed the highest cortisol concentrations at calving compared to all other observation time points. Haptoglobin levels were significantly higher at -3 days compared to -15 and -7 days, as well as at calving. IL-1β showed a steady increase throughout the pre-calving period, followed by a decrease at calving and a subsequent increase during the post-calving phase. TNF-α concentrations progressively decreased starting at -7 days, continuing this downward trend until the end of the monitoring period. IL-6 increased from -15 days to calving, then decreased at + 7 days. Overall, the picture presented by these preliminary results indicates a transient and well-regulated inflammatory activation that supports the physiological demands of calving and lactation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42561490 is a review article
Maternal consumption of a Western diet (WD) during critical developmental periods has been shown to program long-term metabolic dysfunction in offspring. However, it remains unclear whether these early exposures leave a persistent transcriptomic imprint into adulthood and whether this signature can be reshaped by postnatal interventions, limiting insight into underlying mechanisms and opportunities for early intervention. Here, we aimed to identify long-term transcriptomic signatures associated with maternal WD exposure during gestation and lactation using peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from adult male and female offspring. We further evaluated the potential of two early-life interventions - maternal dietary normalization and pup leptin supplementation during lactation - to reverse these alterations. The offspring from dams fed a normal-fat diet during gestation and lactation was used as a control group. Considering all groups, the expression of 90 genes differed between the control and WD offspring. Both interventions normalized the expression of most genes altered by maternal WD exposure (83 and 76 out of 90, respectively), shifting the global transcriptomic profile toward control levels. Multivariate analyses identified the 20 highest-ranked contributors to the PLS-DA model distinguishing offspring of WD-fed dams from controls, with stronger discriminatory capacity in males than in females, suggesting coordinated dysregulation of immunometabolic pathways, primarily involving immune and inflammatory signaling, cell fate regulation, and metabolic homeostasis. In conclusion, interventions during lactation may effectively reverse most transcriptomic alterations associated with adverse maternal conditions, supporting this period as a critical window for postnatal reprogramming. These findings suggest that early nutritional interventions may help mitigate long-term health risks associated with adverse maternal diet and support the use of PBMC transcriptomic signatures as potential minimally invasive biomarkers of developmental programming.Copyright © 2026 Pomar, Valle, Caimari, Palou, Palou and Picó.
Adipokines play an important role in metabolism, insulin sensitivity, and inflammation, and may provide distinct contributions to the pathophysiology of type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). The differences in roles of the adiponectin-leptin ratio (ALR), visfatin, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) in the various subtypes of diabetes are still not fully understood. This cross-sectional study involved 141 participants, divided into healthy controls (n = 47), patients with T1DM (n = 47), and patients with T2DM (n = 47). Serum adiponectin, leptin, visfatin, TNF-α, fasting plasma glucose (FPG), glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c), and serum insulin levels were measured. The ALR was calculated. Insulin resistance and β-cell function were examined using homeostasis model assessment (HOMA) indices. We performed group comparisons, correlation studies, logistic regression tests, and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analyses. The differences observed were all statistically significant. Participants with T2DM showed a more adverse metabolic profile, characterized by greater waist circumference and higher levels of FPG, HbA1c, serum insulin, leptin, and TNF-α, along with lower levels of adiponectin and ALR. Participants with T1DM also exhibited altered adipokine profiles compared to controls, notably with increased levels of leptin and TNF-α. All diabetic groups had decreased levels of visfatin, with the T2DM group showing the largest reduction. ROC analysis demonstrated effective discrimination of TNF-α, ALR, and visfatin in this group. This study highlights the different inflammatory and adipokine profiles across diabetes subtypes. The assessment of these biomarkers enhances the understanding of metabolic differences between T1DM and T2DM. However, these findings are exploratory and require validation in large, controlled studies.Copyright © 2026 Wu, He, Zeng, Lai and Bai.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42553052 is a review article
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42527797
Gastric and gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinomas remain major causes of cancer- related mortality worldwide. Although perioperative chemotherapy, HER2-directed therapy, Claudin-18.2 (CLDN18.2)-targeted treatment, immune checkpoint inhibition, and anti-angiogenic therapy have improved outcomes in selected patients, clinically actionable targets are absent, heterogeneous, or lost in many high-grade, diffuse, poorly cohesive, signet-ring-cell micropapillary, hepatoid, and sarcomatoid carcinomas. Additional histopathology-assessable biomarkers that can support both molecular imaging and targeted therapy are of considerable clinical interest.Integrin αvβ6 is an epithelial-specific adhesion receptor that is minimally expressed in most normal adult tissues but becomes markedly upregulated during epithelial carcinogenesis, tissue remodeling, invasion, and activation of transforming growth factor-β signaling. This retrospective histopathological and immunohistochemical study evaluated integrin αvβ6 expression by immunohistochemistry in 53 formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded diagnostic specimens of untreated primary gastric or gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma. Tumors were classified according to the WHO Classification of Tumors of the Digestive System, 5th edition. Membranous integrin αvβ6 staining intensity and the percentage of positive tumor cells were recorded, and an H-score was calculated. Expression patterns were compared descriptively with histological subtype, differentiation grade, HER2 status, and CLDN18.2 expression.Integrin αvβ6 immunoreactivity was detected in 49 of 53 tumors (92.5%), the clinically more relevant moderate to strong expression (H-score > 100) was present in 27 of 53 cases (50.9%), and strong expression was present in 13 of 53 cases (24.5%). Expression was not confined to conventional intestinal-type tumors; among carcinomas containing a signet-ring-cell component, 14 of 16 assessable cases (87.5%) showed integrin αvβ6 positivity, with 8 of 16 (50.0%) showing moderate to strong staining. By comparison, HER2 positivity was identified in 4 of 53 cases (7.5%; 4 of 52 assessable cases, 7.7%), and clinically relevant CLDN18.2 positivity, defined as moderate-to-strong membranous staining in at least 75% of tumor cells, was present in 7 of 38 assessable cases (18.4%).Integrin αvβ6 is frequently expressed in gastric and gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma, with moderate to strong expression in approximately half of all cases and in half of signet ring cell-containing tumors, including aggressive histological subtypes that often lack established therapeutic targets. The precise H-Score threshold for theranostic eligibility remains to be determined. The findings support integrin αvβ6 as a promising biomarker for histopathology-based screening, PET-based whole-body target assessment, and future targeted radionuclide therapy. Integration of immunohistochemistry and integrin αvβ6- targeted PET imaging will be essential to validate integrin αvβ6 as a candidate biomarker and to optimize radionuclide selection in gastric cancer, particularly with moderate to strong expression.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42504259 is a review article
Posterior capsular opacification (PCO) is a common complication of cataract surgery and is strongly associated with the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) of lens epithelial cells (LECs). Integrin β3 (ITGB3) has been implicated in various pathological processes; however, its role in PCO remains insufficiently understood.To investigate the regulatory role of ITGB3 in PCO progression and determine whether ITGB3 modulates transforming growth factor-β2 (TGF-β2)-induced migration and EMT in human lens epithelial cells.Human lens epithelial HLE-B3 cells were treated with transforming growth factor-β2 (TGF-β2; 10 ng/mL) to establish an in vitro model of PCO. ITGB3 expression at the mRNA and protein levels was assessed using reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and western blotting. Cell proliferation was evaluated using the 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU) assay, while cell migration was assessed using transwell and wound-healing assays.TGF-β2 stimulation significantly increased ITGB3 expression in HLE-B3 cells. Silencing of ITGB3 significantly reduced the proliferation of TGF-β2-treated cells and inhibited their migratory capacity, as demonstrated by both transwell and wound-healing assays. Exposure to TGF-β2 promoted EMT, whereas ITGB3 knockdown reversed this effect. Furthermore, activation of the TGF-β/Smad2/3 signaling pathway induced by TGF-β2 was attenuated following ITGB3 silencing.Knockdown of ITGB3 alleviates TGF-β2-induced migration and EMT in HLE-B3 cells by suppressing the TGF-β/Smad2/3 signaling pathway, supporting ITGB3 as a potential therapeutic target for the prevention and treatment of PCO.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42429916 is a review article
This randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial evaluated the clinical and biological effects of laser-assisted therapy on the healing of soft tissue at the pontic site prior to fixed partial denture rehabilitation.A total of 45 patients requiring a single-tooth extraction, followed by a three-unit fixed partial denture rehabilitation, were randomly allocated to one of three groups (n = 15 in each group). Gallium-Aluminum-Arsenide (GaAlAs) diode laser (GRR laser), Neodymium-doped Yttrium Aluminium Garnet laser (Nd: YAG) and placebo. Laser applications were performed once daily for five consecutive days following tooth extraction. Clinical healing was assessed using wound dimension measurements and the healing index (HI) at baseline, day 7, and day 14. Postoperative pain was evaluated using visual analog scale (VAS) scores recorded daily from postoperative day 1 to day 7. Gingival crevicular fluid (GCF) samples were collected at the same time points and analysed for transforming growth factor beta 2 (TGF-β2) levels using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Intergroup and intragroup comparisons were performed using the appropriate statistical tests (α = 0.05).No significant differences were observed among groups at baseline for any evaluated parameter (p > 0.05). At day 7 and day 14, significant intergroup differences were detected for wound dimensions, clinical healing index scores, VAS pain scores, and GCF TGF-β2 levels (p < 0.001). The GRR laser group demonstrated significantly greater wound size reduction, higher clinical healing index scores, lower postoperative pain levels, and higher TGF-β2 concentrations compared with the Nd: YAG laser and placebo groups. Nd: YAG laser group showed improved outcomes compared with placebo, although these differences were less significant than those observed in the GRR group.Laser-assisted therapy accelerated the healing of soft tissue at the pontic site prior to fixed partial denture rehabilitation. The GRR laser protocol achieved superior clinical and biological outcomes compared to the Nd: YAG laser and the placebo. These results suggest that optimised low-level laser therapy (LLLT) could be a valuable additional treatment for accelerating pontic site maturation and making the prosthetic workflow more predictable.NCT07415434, Retrospectively registered (09.02.2026).© 2026. The Author(s).
Arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy (ARVC) is an inherited cardiomyopathy characterized by progressive fibrofatty replacement of the right ventricular myocardium, ventricular arrhythmias, and an increased risk of sudden cardiac death. Pathogenic variants of desmosomal genes have been implicated in ARVC pathogenesis and may disrupt desmosomal protein function. However, whether and how desmosomal protein dysfunction directly activates cardiac fibroblasts to mediate fibrosis remains poorly understood. To address this, we combined genetic analysis with in vivo and cellular models to investigate the role of desmosomal dysfunction in cardiac fibrosis. The systematic genetic analysis revealed that desmosomal gene variants are predominant in ARVC, accounting for 67.4% of cases in cohort studies and 96.1% of pathogenic variants in ClinVar. We used desmocollin-2 (DSC2) knockout mice to recapitulate key features of ARVC, including right ventricular fibrosis, enlargement, and dysfunction. In vitro, DSC2 deficiency directly activates cardiac fibroblasts, resulting in increased cell proliferation, migration, and fibrosis marker expression. Further analysis identified transforming growth factor beta-2 (TGF-β2) as a critical signaling mediator in cardiac fibrosis of DSC2 deficiency-mediated ARVC. Mechanistically, DSC2 deficiency upregulated transcription factor 7 (TCF7) expression, promoting its binding to TGF-β2 promoter regions to enhance TGF-β2 transcription in cardiac fibroblasts. Pharmacological inhibition of TGF-β2 with pirfenidone (PFD) effectively attenuated cardiac fibrosis and improved right ventricular function in DSC2-deficient hearts. The results of the present study identified DSC2 deficiency-mediated TCF7-TGF-β2 signaling in cardiac fibroblasts, which contributed to ARVC development. Thus, targeting TGF-β2 signaling may be a promising therapeutic strategy for desmosome gene mutation-related ARVC.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to The Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Sciences and Chinese Pharmacological Society.
Traumatic cataract is a common blinding eye disease after ocular trauma, and its pathogenesis is closely related to lens epithelial cell dysfunction, while the definite molecular regulatory mechanism between upstream transcription factor and downstream target gene remains poorly clarified. This study aimed to clarify the role and molecular mechanism of the krüppel-like factor 5 (KLF5)/ thrombosponin 1 (THBS1) axis in regulating proliferation, migration, epithelial-mesenchymal transition and autophagy of lens epithelial cells in traumatic cataract, and to explore its potential clinical therapeutic value.The GSE295383 dataset in the gene expression omnibus (GEO) database was downloaded, and the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were screened by linear models for microarray data (limma) package of R language. Combined with Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), the gene co-expression network was constructed and the key modules were screened. Gene ontology (GO), kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes (KEGG) and gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) combined with human transcription factor target (hTFtarget) and JASPAR databases were used to predict the upstream transcription factors of THBS1. Subsequently, SRA01/04 cells were induced with transforming growth factor-beta 2 (TGF-β2) to construct a cataract cell model.THBS1 and KLF5 were highly expressed in LECs exposed to TGF-β2. KLF5 could activate THBS1 transcription by binding to THBS1 promoter - 174 to -165 sites. Knockdown of THBS1 inhibited TGF-β2-induced viability, proliferation, migration, and altered the expression of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT)- and autophagy-related markers in LECs. Knockdown of KLF5 downregulated THBS1 expression and produced a similar inhibitory effect, while overexpression of THBS1 reversed the effect of KLF5 knockdown.This study demonstrated that KLF5 promoted the proliferation, migration, and EMT‑associated molecular changes of LECs in traumatic cataract through transcriptional activation of THBS1, and regulated the expression of autophagy‑related markers in LECs, suggesting that KLF5/THBS1 axis might be a potential target for the treatment of traumatic cataract.© 2026. The Author(s).
Type 1 diabetes is associated with increased fracture risk, yet the respective contributions of insulin deficiency and replacement to skeletal fragility remain poorly understood. Using insulin-deficient male Akita mice, we characterized skeletal alterations and assessed the effects of early insulin therapy. Untreated male Akita mice displayed severe hyperglycemia, impaired growth, low bone formation, and marked trabecular and cortical deficits, resulting in reduced whole-bone structural mechanical properties. Insulin therapy initiated at early diabetes onset normalized glycemia, restored bone formation, and fully recovered cortical material properties. However, cortical porosity remained elevated, cortical geometry was not fully restored, and whole-bone structural mechanical properties did not improve. Gene expression profiling showed downregulation of osteoblast, osteocyte, mechanosensing, and Wnt-related genes in male Akita mice. Notably, Sp7 (Osterix) and Ostn (Osteocrin), key regulators of osteocyte dendrite formation, were downregulated in male Akita mice, suggesting disrupted osteocyte network development. Insulin upregulated osteogenic and Wnt signaling targets but incompletely restored mechanosensing pathways. Importantly, expression of the Wnt inhibitors Sost (Sclerostin) and Dkk1 (Dickkopf-1) remained elevated despite insulin treatment, potentially maintaining an inhibitory environment that limits the anabolic response to mechanical loading. These findings show that early insulin therapy improves bone health in type 1 diabetes, including turnover, trabecular structure, and cortical tissue material properties, but fails to fully rescue cortical integrity and whole-bone structural mechanical properties. This incomplete recovery likely reflects persistent defects in osteocyte function and mechanosensing in insulin-deficient bone and highlights potential therapeutic targets beyond glycemic control to reduce fracture risk in type 1 diabetes.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
To identify genetic risk variants for primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and prioritize biologically relevant genes through integration of genetic association, regulatory annotation, ocular transcriptomics, and functional modeling.A case-control genome-wide association study (GWAS) with integrative functional follow-up.A total of 234 153 United States Veterans of European ancestry enrolled in the Million Veteran Program, including 10 738 POAG cases and 223 415 controls.We conducted a POAG GWAS using electronic health record-based phenotyping and logistic regression adjusted for age, sex, and genetic ancestry. Genome-wide significant loci were evaluated using statistical fine-mapping and colocalization with expression and splicing quantitative trait loci across ocular and nonocular tissues. Bulk and single-cell transcriptomic datasets were interrogated to assess gene expression in glaucoma-relevant tissues and cell types. Functional relevance was evaluated by examining gene expression responses to cyclic mechanical stretch (CMS) with and without transforming growth factor beta 2 (TGFβ2) in primary human trabecular meshwork (HTM) cells. Ortholog expression was assessed in zebrafish.Genome-wide significant variant associations with POAG, colocalized regulatory signals, ocular tissue and cell-type expression patterns, and differential gene expression under biomechanical and profibrotic stress conditions.Genome-wide association study identified a significant association near PRRX1 (lead variant rs10919469:G; odds ratio ≈ 0.92; P value = 1.9 × 10-8) that replicated in FinnGen and UK Biobank. Fine-mapping yielded a 95% credible set of 25 variants without a single high probability causal variant. Although regulatory annotation implicated multiple genes, PRRX1 showed broad expression across glaucoma-relevant ocular tissues and cell types, including trabecular meshwork and optic nerve head fibroblasts, pericytes, and astrocytes. In primary HTM cells, PRRX1 was significantly downregulated under combined CMS and TGFβ2 exposure. Zebrafish ortholog analyses support neuro-ocular relevance.Integration of GWAS, regulatory annotation, ocular transcriptomics, and functional modeling prioritizes PRRX1 as a plausible gene of interest warranting further investigation for potential involvement in POAG. Identification and integrative evaluation of this POAG-associated locus advances understanding of disease biology and may inform future risk stratification and therapeutic investigation.Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found in the Footnotes and Disclosures at the end of this article.© 2026 American Academy of Ophthalmology, Inc. Published by Elsevier Inc.
GLIS family zinc finger 3 (GLIS3) is a transcription factor implicated in multiple malignancies, but its role in stomach adenocarcinoma (STAD) and its downstream effector axis remain unclear. We investigated whether GLIS3 coordinates epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and cancer stem cell (CSC)-like programs in STAD through a signaling cascade.GLIS3 expression and prognostic associations were analyzed using transcriptomic datasets from The Cancer Genome Atlas, Genotype-Tissue Expression, and Gene Expression Omnibus. GLIS3 protein levels were evaluated by immunohistochemistry in 133 paired STAD tissues. Survival was assessed by Kaplan-Meier analysis together with multivariable regression models. Gain- and loss-of-function studies were performed in AGS and HGC-27 cells to evaluate proliferation, migration, EMT and CSC-like phenotypes. Mechanistic experiments interrogated a GLIS3-transforming growth factor beta receptor 3 (TGFBR3)-Hedgehog axis using ChIP-qPCR, dual-luciferase assays, co-immunoprecipitation, GLI reporter assays, and vismodegib treatment. Tumor growth was assessed in xenograft models.GLIS3 was consistently upregulated in STAD across public datasets and in the clinical cohort (median H-score: 112 vs 39, P < 0.001) and was associated with adverse clinicopathological features and poor survival. In the TCGA cohort, higher GLIS3 expression was associated with greater nodal burden, more advanced nodal and metastatic status, and worse vital status. In multivariable Cox models restricted to cases with defined stage classifications, GLIS3 remained independently associated with worse overall survival in the primary model (hazard ratio = 1.45, 95% confidence interval: 1.04-2.02; P = 0.031), with a consistent result in the sensitivity model. Functionally, GLIS3 enhanced proliferation and migration and promoted EMT marker switching and CSC-like traits. Mechanistically, GLIS3 transcriptionally activated TGFBR3 and increased Hedgehog pathway activity; bidirectional rescue experiments showed that TGFBR3 overexpression partially restored, whereas TGFBR3 silencing attenuated, GLIS3-driven EMT/CSC-like phenotypes and growth-related functions. Xenograft experiments supported an in vivo growth-promoting role of the GLIS3-TGFBR3-Hedgehog axis.GLIS3 identifies an aggressive STAD phenotype and engages a TGFBR3-Hedgehog program linked to EMT and CSC-like features. These findings support further evaluation of GLIS3 as a biomarker for risk stratification and provide a rationale for biomarker-guided targeting of the GLIS3-TGFBR3-Hedgehog axis in STAD.Copyright © 2026 Xiao, Deng, Li, Zheng and Zhang.
To explore the effect of SP600125, a c-Jun N-terminal kinases (JNK) inhibitor, on epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cell caused by transforming growth factor-beta 2 (TGF-β2).Human RPE cell line (ARPE-19) cells were treated with TGF-β2 and JNK inhibitor SP600125 in vitro. Cellular viability, migration and proliferation in ARPE-19 cells were examined by cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) assay, wound scratch, and bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) staining assay, respectively. Transforming growth factor-beta receptor 2 (TGF-βR2), Smad2/3, JNK, c-Jun, alpha-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA), N-cadherin, and vimentin proteins were analyzed by immunoblotting. Moreover, TGF-βR2 was detected by immunofluorescence assay.TGF-β2 significantly enhanced viability, migration, and proliferation in ARPE-19 cells, induced phosphorylation of TGF-βR2, Smad2/3, JNK, and c-Jun, and upregulated α-SMA, N-cadherin, and vimentin expression. SP600125 inhibited these cellular processes and reduced the expression/phosphorylation of the above proteins; notably, it blocked TGF-β2-induced effects, including cell viability, migration, proliferation, phosphorylation of TGF-βR2, Smad2/3, JNK, and c-Jun, as well as upregulation of α-SMA, N-cadherin, and vimentin.JNK inhibitor SP600125 suppresses TGF-β2-induced the increases in cell viability, migration, proliferation, and EMT in RPE cells via the TGF-βR2/Smad2/3 and JNK/c-Jun signaling pathways.International Journal of Ophthalmology Press.
Primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is a major cause of irreversible blindness, yet its underly mechanisms remain unclear. Elevated intraocular pressure (IOP), the only modifiable risk factor for POAG, arises from increased resistance to aqueous humor outflow within the conventional outflow pathway, which comprises the trabecular meshwork (TM) and the inner wall of Schlemm's canal. Dysfunction and cellular loss within this pathway, particularly in the TM, are consistent features of the disease; however, the mechanisms responsible for impaired tissue maintenance and regenerative failure remain unclear. TM progenitor cells (TMPCs) have the capacity to replace lost TM cells, suggesting that impaired progenitor function may contribute to disease progression. Transforming growth factor beta 2 (TGFβ2), which is consistently elevated in the aqueous humor of POAG patients, plays a key role in regulating stem cell differentiation. We proposed that excess TGFβ2 disrupts TMPC function, leading to progenitor depletion and TM dysfunction. Here, we show that TGFβ2 drives TMPCs toward a differentiated, fibrotic phenotype, increasing TM and profibrotic gene expression while reducing progenitor markers. These effects are mediated through TGFβ2-SMAD2/3 signaling, as inhibition of this pathway preserves TMPC characteristics and suppresses fibrotic gene induction. Our findings identify TGFβ2-SMAD2/3 signaling as a regulator of TMPC fate in vitro and suggest a potential mechanism by which elevated TGFβ2 may influence TMPC behavior under pathological conditions.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
<p indent="0mm">Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a fatal disease whose pathogenic mechanisms remain incompletely understood. Transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β) is widely regarded as a central driver of fibrosis, orchestrating sustained fibroblast activation and pathological tissue scarring. DDR2 (discoidin domain receptor tyrosine kinase 2), a discoidin domain receptor tyrosine kinase, serves as a critical mediator of non-canonical TGF-β1 signaling. Using lung samples from patients with IPF, human precision-cut lung slices (PCLS), primary lung fibroblasts and a BLM (bleomycin)-induced mouse model, we investigate the role of prohibitin 2 (PHB2) in fibrotic progression. Here, we demonstrate that PHB2 binds to DDR2 and suppresses collagen I-induced DDR2 tyrosine phosphorylation, as well as TGF-β1-stimulated activation of ERK, p38, AKT and Smad-3, leading to downregulation of key fibrotic markers. Accordingly, AAV9-mediated PHB2 overexpression exhibits therapeutic effects in a mouse model of pulmonary fibrosis. We also observe significant downregulation of PHB2 in IPF lungs. Functionally, PHB2 attenuates fibroblast migration and counteracts the TGF-β1-induced enhancement of mitochondrial respiration in lung fibroblasts. Mechanistically, PHB2 disrupts the interaction between DDR2 and TGF-β receptor II (TGFBR2) and inhibits DDR2 phosphorylation, thereby mitigating fibrotic responses in fibroblasts and PCLS- and BLM-induced mouse models. Our findings indicate that PHB2 acts as a molecular "braker" of both TGF-β1- and DDR2-driven profibrotic pathways in pathogenic fibroblasts.</p>.
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a common degenerative joint disease, which is highly prevalent in the elderly, imposes a significant burden on patients and society. Aging, obesity, and inflammation are important factors contributing to the development of osteoarthritis. Currently, there are limited pharmaceutical treatment options for osteoarthritis: non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs or COX2 inhibitors are generally used for anti-inflammatory treatment of mild to moderate pain, and corticosteroid joint injections are used for severe pain. Discoidin domain receptor tyrosine kinase 2 (DDR2) is reported to be closely related to OA in recent studies. Single-cell RNA sequencing analysis in this study also proved that DDR2 was strongly expressed in some specific cell subsets. Current DDR2 inhibitor research focuses on developing antagonists to block type II collagen binding and receptor activation, thereby reducing MMP13 expression and promoting cartilage repair. At present, most of DDR2 inhibitors are still at the research stage in the laboratory and further development and improvement of these drug candidates are required. In this study, computer-aided drug design (CADD) techniques were used to screen potential lead compounds targeting DDR2. Candidate compounds were analyzed following different modules, such as Libdock, CDOCKER, TOPKAT, ADMET, and molecular dynamics simulation (MD) etc. Altogether, two natural lead compounds were ultimately identified with characterizations of high affinity and low drug toxicity in this study. One of the compounds ZINC000003874604 were selected for in vitro cell experiments. In-vitro experiments confirmed that the lead compound ZINC000003874604 could protect tBHP-induced primary chondrocytes of OA by inhibiting DDR2 expression. In summary, this study found that ZINC000003874604, as a lead compound, had potential therapeutic activity for OA, which may help provide more drug options in the pharmaceutical market.© 2025. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 41040908 is a review article
Immunotherapy resistance remains a substantial barrier to improving treatment outcomes for patients with lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD). Identifying effective immunotherapy target is crucial for enhancing therapeutic efficacy in LUAD. Through database analysis, we discovered that ADP ribosylhydrolase-like 1 (ADPRHL1, ARH2) is associated with immunosuppression. In this study, we first demonstrated that the increased presence of ARH2-positive macrophages in LUAD tumors is associated with immunosuppression. Furthermore, ARH2 promotes M2 macrophage polarization and suppresses immune responses by regulating the FPR2/PI3K/AKT signaling pathway. Additionally, we found that artesunate (ART) can induce necroptosis in LUAD cells and activate antitumor immune responses. To translate these findings into a clinically viable therapeutic approach, we developed a pH/ROS-responsive nanosystem capable of co-delivering siARH2 and ART. This nanosystem effectively activated immune responses in both tumor cells and tumor-associated macrophages. Furthermore, the nanosystem demonstrated excellent in vivo safety, precise PD-L1 targeting, and responsiveness to ROS and pH variations. It considerably suppressed the malignant phenotype of tumor cells induced by macrophages and enhanced T-cell-mediated immune responses. Overall, targeting ARH2 in combination with ART represents a promising novel strategy for the treatment of LUAD.© 2025 The Authors.
As industrial pollution intensifies, global male semen quality has been declining at a rate of 2.64 % per year in the 21st century. Among the various types of infertility, non-obstructive azoospermia (NOA) is the most severe and is closely associated with exposure to environmental toxins. The molecular mechanisms by which 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD), a typical persistent organic pollutant, induces NOA have yet to be systematically elucidated.This study employed the single-sample Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (ssGSEA) method to identify key toxicological pathways and constructed a diagnostic model based on 113 machine learning algorithms. By integrating Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis (WGCNA) and single-cell analysis, we identified hub genes associated with the Sertoli Cell-Only Syndrome (SCOS) subtype. Finally, biomolecular modeling was conducted to validate the binding efficacy of the hub genes with TCDD.Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analysis based on the ssGSEA method indicated that TCDD may disrupt spermatogenesis by activating the Tumor Necrosis Factor (TNF) and Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase (MAPK) signaling pathways while inhibiting the Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) signaling pathway, ultimately leading to NOA. Through the integration of machine learning techniques, 5 hub genes (AUC > 0.7) induced by TCDD and associated with NOA were identified: Androgen receptor (AR), Chromodomain Helicase DNA-Binding Protein 1 (CHD1), Discoidin Domain Receptor Tyrosine Kinase 2 (DDR2), Retinoic Acid Receptor-Related Orphan Receptor Alpha (RORA), and Glutamate Ionotropic Receptor AMPA Type Subunit 1 (GRIA1). WGCNA and single-cell analysis revealed that AR and DDR2 were specifically expressed in the testicular tissues of NOA patients and were closely associated with SCOS (p < 0.05). Immune infiltration analysis suggested that TCDD induces abnormal infiltration of various immune cells, indicating its close relationship with immune inflammatory responses (p < 0.05). Biomolecular modeling further demonstrated a strong binding affinity between AR and TCDD (∆G = -8.3 kcal·mol⁻¹, Etotal = -37.79 kcal·mol⁻¹), highlighting the critical role of AR in TCDD-induced NOA.This study reveals the potential molecular mechanisms by which TCDD induces NOA, providing new targets for the development of diagnostic and therapeutic strategies.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Highly myopic cataract (HMC) is a leading cause of blindness among the working-age individuals, with its pathogenesis poorly understood. This study aimed to elucidate the role of ferroptosis in HMC development as well as the underlying mechanisms. In HMC lens epithelia, levels of Fe2+ and lipid peroxidation were found elevated, with increased vulnerability towards ferroptosis as revealed by transmission electron microscopy. Mechanistically, RNA sequencing of HMC lens epithelial samples identified up-regulated expression of discoidin domain receptor tyrosine kinase 2 (DDR2) as a key factor, which could enhance ferroptosis sensitivity via the Src-Hippo pathway. Specifically, DDR2 interacted with Src kinase, leading to the nuclear translocation of homologous transcriptional regulators (yes-associated protein 1 [YAP1] and WW domain containing transcription regulator 1 [WWTR1]) of the Hippo pathway, which altered the expression level of ferroptosis-related genes. Notably, highly myopic eyes of mice exhibited higher sensitivity to RSL3, a ferroptosis inducer, manifested as more severe nuclear lens opacities both in vitro and in vivo compared with the contralateral control eyes, which could be alleviated by inhibitors of either ferroptosis or DDR2. Altogether, these findings highlighted the role of DDR2 in mediating ferroptosis in HMC formation, providing a novel insight for therapeutic interventions.© 2025. The Author(s).
Breast cancer is frequently the most diagnosed female cancer in the world. The experimental studies on cancer seldom focus on the relationship between the central nervous system and cancer. Despite extensive research into the treatment of breast cancer, chemotherapy resistance is an important issue limiting the efficacy of treatment. Novel biomarkers to predict prognosis or sensitivity to chemotherapy are urgently needed. This study examined nervous-system-related genes. The profiling of differentially expressed genes indicated that high-LET radiation, such as that emitted by radon progeny, in the presence of estrogen, induced a cascade of events indicative of tumorigenicity in human breast epithelial cells. Bioinformatic tools allowed us to analyze the genes involved in breast cancer and associated with the nervous system. The results indicated that the gene expression of the Ephrin A1 gene (EFNA1), the roundabout guidance receptor 1 (ROBO1), and the kallikrein-related peptidase 6 (KLK6) was greater in T2 and A5 than in the A3 cell line; the LIM domain kinase 2 gene (LIMK2) was greater in T2 than A3 and A5; the kallikrein-related peptidase 7 (KLK7), the neuroligin 4 X-linked gene (NLGN4X), and myelin basic protein (MBP) were greater than A3 only in T2; and the neural precursor cell expressed, developmentally down-regulated 9 gene (NEDD9) was greater in A5 than in the A3 and E cell lines. Concerning the correlation, it was found a positive correlation between ESR1 and EFNA1 in BRCA-LumA patients; with ROBO1 in BRCA-Basal patients, but this correlation was negative with the kallikrein-related peptidase 6 (KLK6) in BRCA-LumA and -LumB, as well as with LIMK2 and ROBO1 in all BRCA. It was also positive with neuroligin 4 X-linked (NLGN4X) in BRCA-Her2 and BRCA-LumB, and with MBP in BRCA-LumA and -LumB, but negative with KLK7 in all BRCA and BRCA-LumA and NEDD9 in BRCA-Her2. The differential gene expression levels between the tumor and adjacent tissue indicated that the ROBO1, KLK6, LIMK2, KLK7, NLGN4X, MBP, and NEDD9 gene expression levels were higher in normal tissues than in tumors; however, EFNA1 was higher in the tumor than the normal ones. EFNA1, LIMK2, ROBO1, KLK6, KLK7, and MBP gene expression had a negative ER status, whereas NEDD9 and NLGN4X were not significant concerning ER status. In conclusion, important markers have been analyzed concerning genes related to the nervous system, opening up a new avenue of studies in breast cancer therapy.
Pseudoenzymes, catalytically deficient variants of active enzymes, have a wide range of regulatory functions. ADP-ribosylhydrolase-like 1 (ADPRHL1), a pseudoenzyme belonging to a small group of ADP-ribosylhydrolase enzymes that lacks the amino acid residues necessary for catalytic activity, may have a significant role in heart development based on accumulating evidence. However, the specific function of ADPRHL1 in this process has not been elucidated. To investigate the role of ADPRHL1 in the heart, we generated the first in vitro human embryonic stem cell model with an ADPRHL1 knockout.Using the CRISPR/Cas9 system, we generated ADPRHL1 knockout in the human embryonic stem cell (hESC) H9 line. The cells were differentiated into cardiomyocytes using a chemically defined and xeno-free method. We employed confocal laser microscopy to detect calcium transients and microelectrode array (MEA) to assess the electrophysiological activity of ADPRHL1 deficiency cardiomyocytes. Additionally, we investigated the cellular mechanism of ADPRHL1 by Bulk RNA sequencing and western blot.The results indicate that the absence of ADPRHL1 in cardiomyocytes led to adhered abnormally, as well as perturbations in calcium transients and electrophysiological activity. We also revealed that disruption of focal adhesion formation in these cardiomyocytes was due to an excessive upregulation of the ROCK-myosin II pathway. Notably, inhibition of ROCK and myosin II effectively restores focal adhesions in ADPRHL1-deficient cardiomyocytes and improved electrical conduction and calcium activity.Our findings demonstrate that ADPRHL1 plays a critical role in maintaining the proper function of cardiomyocytes by regulating the ROCK-myosin II pathway, suggesting that it may serve as a potential drug target for the treatment of ADPRHL1-related diseases.© 2023. BioMed Central Ltd., part of Springer Nature.
Neuroligin 4 X-linked (NLGN4X) harbors a human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-A*02-restricted tumor-associated antigen, overexpressed in human gliomas, that was found to induce specific cytotoxic T cell responses following multi-peptide vaccination in patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma.T cell receptor (TCR) discovery was performed using droplet-based single-cell TCR sequencing of NLGN4X-tetramer-sorted T cells postvaccination. The identified TCR was delivered to Jurkat T cells and primary human T cells (NLGN4X-TCR-T). Functional profiling of NLGN4X-TCR-T was performed by flow cytometry and cytotoxicity assays. Therapeutic efficacy of intracerebroventricular NLGN4X-TCR-T was assessed in NOD scid gamma (NSG) major histocompatibility complex (MHC) I/II knockout (KO) (NSG MHC I/II KO) mice bearing NLGN4X-expressing experimental gliomas.An HLA-A*02-restricted vaccine-induced T cell receptor specifically binding NLGN4X131-139 was applied for preclinical therapeutic use. Reactivity, cytotoxicity, and polyfunctionality of this NLGN4X-specific TCR are demonstrated in various cellular models. Intracerebroventricular administration of NLGN4X-TCR-T prolongs survival and leads to an objective response rate of 44.4% in experimental glioma-bearing NSG MHC I/II KO mice compared to 0.0% in control groups.NLGN4X-TCR-T demonstrate efficacy in a preclinical glioblastoma model. On a global scale, we provide the first evidence for the therapeutic retrieval of vaccine-induced human TCRs for the off-the-shelf treatment of glioblastoma patients.Keywords cell therapy | glioblastoma | T cell receptor | tumor antigen.© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for Neuro-Oncology.
Anti-programmed cell death 1 (anti-PD-1) and PD ligand 1 (PD-L1) immune checkpoint therapies (ICTs) provided durable responses only in a subset of cancer patients. Thus, biomarkers are needed to predict nonresponders and offer them alternative treatments. We recently implicated discoidin domain receptor tyrosine kinase 2 (DDR2) as a contributor to anti-PD-1 resistance in animal models; therefore, we sought to investigate whether this gene family may provide ICT response prediction.We assessed mRNA expression of DDR2 and its family member DDR1. Transcriptome analysis of bladder cancer (BCa) models in which DDR1 and 2 were perturbed was used to derive DDR1- and DDR2-driven signature scores. DDR mRNA expression and gene signature scores were evaluated using BCa-The Cancer Genome Atlas (n = 259) and IMvigor210 (n = 298) datasets, and their relationship to BCa subtypes, pathway enrichment, and immune deconvolution analyses was performed. The potential of DDR-driven signatures to predict ICT response was evaluated and independently validated through a statistical framework in bladder and lung cancer cohorts. All statistical tests were 2-sided.DDR1 and DDR2 showed mutually exclusive gene expression patterns in human tumors. DDR2high BCa exhibited activation of immune pathways and a high immune score, indicative of a T-cell-inflamed phenotype, whereas DDR1high BCa exhibited a non-T-cell-inflamed phenotype. In IMvigor210 cohort, tumors with high DDR1 (hazard ratio [HR] = 1.53, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.16 to 2.06; P = .003) or DDR2 (HR = 1.42, 95% CI = 1.01 to 1.92; P = .04) scores had poor overall survival. Of note, DDR2high tumors from IMvigor210 and CheckMate 275 (n = 73) cohorts exhibited poorer overall survival (HR = 1.56, 95% CI = 1.20 to 2.06; P &lt; .001) and progression-free survival (HR = 1.77 95%, CI = 1.05 to 3.00; P = .047), respectively. This result was validated in independent cancer datasets.These findings implicate DDR1 and DDR2 driven signature scores in predicting ICT response.© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.
Cardiac fibrosis is a hallmark of metabolic syndrome, a condition linked to Western lifestyles and high cardiovascular risk. We previously demonstrated that dietary sodium restriction prevents cardiac fibrosis and remodeling in a rat model of metabolic syndrome through reduced macrophage infiltration. Here, we investigate genes involved in endothelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EndoMT), a key process in cardiac fibrosis.Metabolic syndrome was induced in rats by high-fructose feeding combined with angiotensin II infusion. EndoMT was assessed in left ventricles and in vitro using TGF-β2-treated human aortic (HAEC) and umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) via immunofluorescence, western blotting, and RT-qPCR. Lentiviral shRNA was used to knock down target genes.Sodium restriction reduced vascular EndoMT in rat left ventricles and downregulated several candidate genes. In vitro, Fibulin-5, a matricellular protein, was markedly upregulated during EndoMT. Silencing Fibulin-5 prevented TGF-β2-induced EndoMT in HAEC and HUVEC, indicating its essential role. Mechanistically, Fibulin-5 modulated SMAD2/3, ERK1/2, and p38 MAPK pathways. In vivo, Fibulin-5 expression was significantly reduced in aortic intima and plasma of sodium-restricted rats.Fibulin-5 emerges as a potential mediator of vascular EndoMT and cardiac fibrosis through TGF-β signaling modulation. Dietary sodium restriction mitigates this process, highlighting Fibulin-5 as a potentially important contributor in metabolic syndrome-related cardiac remodeling.© 2026. The Author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42331310
Fibulin-5 (FBLN5) is a key member of the extracellular matrix (ECM), which plays an important role in the occurrence and development of tumors. This study aimed to determine the role of FBLN5 in the diagnosis, prognosis, and immune regulation of tumors using a pan-cancer analysis.By integrating and analyzing data from multiple public databases, including The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), Firehose, University of California, Santa Cruz (UCSC) Xena, cBioPortal, Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO), Clinical Proteomic Tumor Analysis Consortium (CPTAC), Tumor Immune Estimation Resource 2.0 (TIMER2.0), Tumor Immune Single-cell Hub (TISCH), CellMiner, Genomics of Drug Sensitivity in Cancer (GDSC), and Cancer Therapeutics Response Portal (CTRP), we comprehensively investigated the diagnostic and prognostic potential of FBLN5 across multiple types. We further performed a gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) to elucidate the biological functions associated with FBLN5 expression. Additionally, a survival analysis was conducted to assess its prognostic value, and genetic alteration, methylation, and pathway analyses were also performed. Finally, we examined the relationship between FBLN5 and immunity response, and identified potential drugs that may affect the efficacy of tumor treatment.The analysis of TCGA data revealed that FBLN5 RNA was differentially expressed across multiple tumor types, and in 92% of tumor types, the expression level of FBLN5 protein is lower. Genetic and epigenetic alterations-including mutations, somatic copy number alterations, and DNA methylation-were associated with its dysregulated expression. FBLN5 expression was also correlated with several key clinical features. Further, functional analyses linked FBLN5 expression to various metabolism-, metastasis-, and immune-related pathways. Elevated FBLN5 expression had a controversial effect on prognosis across multiple tumors, and influenced sensitivity to numerous therapeutic agents. Additionally, FBLN5 expression showed significant correlations with immunoregulatory molecules and biomarkers indicative of lymphocyte subpopulation infiltration.This study conducted a systematic analysis of FBLN5 and its regulatory network, demonstrating that FBLN5 expression is closely associated with DNA methylation and drug resistance across multiple tumor types. Further, FBLN5 was found to remodel the tumor microenvironment and cause resistance to immunotherapy.© AME Publishing Company.
Dysregulation of the dermal extracellular matrix (ECM) drives skin pathologies by influencing tissue mechanics, dermal-epidermal adhesion, and disease progression. However, current in vitro models often fail to replicate native ECM complexity or disease-specific alterations, limiting mechanistic studies and therapeutic target discovery. This gap is particularly critical for untreatable skin fragility disorders, where abnormal dermal ECM underlies severe clinical manifestations.This study aimed to develop and validate an engineered natural ECM (NatECM) platform that recapitulates key compositional and biomechanical features of fibroblast-derived dermal ECM. As a proof-of-concept, we applied NatECM to model clinically distinct variants of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa (DEB), the skin fragility disorders prototype, to identify ECM-related and disease-specific alterations and to interrogate candidate therapeutic targets.Primary fibroblasts from healthy donors and DEB patients were cultured to self-assemble their ECM, generating NatECM dermal equivalents. ECM organization was evaluated by immunostaining and ultrastructural analyses, nano- and macro-scale mechanical properties were measured by atomic force microscopy and uniaxial tensile testing, and ECM composition was characterized by proteomics. Functional relevance was evaluated by keratinocyte adhesion assays and fibulin-5 supplementation experiments.NatECM reproduced intrinsic fibroblast-derived dermal ECM features and captured disease-associated mechanical and structural impairments characteristic of DEB. Across DEB variants, NatECM unveiled subtype-specific proteomic alterations that affect ECM structure and elastic fiber formation. We identified a "fragility quartet" - fibulin-5, decorin, and collagens III and V - consistently downregulated across all variants and linked to defective ECM mechanics. Fibulin-5 supplementation restored ECM elastic behavior and strengthened keratinocyte adhesion, supporting its role as a candidate ECM regulator.The NatECM platform faithfully models fibroblast-derived dermal ECM and enables the identification and functional investigation of key molecular ECM regulators in DEB. Its tunability and physiological relevance position NatECM as a robust tool for studying ECM-driven skin disorders and for accelerating the identification of candidate therapeutic targets.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Patients with kidney failure undergoing maintenance hemodialysis suffer high rates of major adverse cardiovascular events(MACE) that are not accurately predicted by traditional cardiovascular risk models. There is an urgent need to identify novel, modifiable cardiovascular risk factors for these patients.We analyzed associations of 6287 circulating proteins with MACE among 1048 participants undergoing hemodialysis in the Chronic Renal Insufficiency Cohort(CRIC) (14-year follow-up) with validation in the Predictors of Arrhythmic and Cardiovascular Risk in End-Stage Renal Disease study(PACE) (7-year follow-up). In both cohorts, proteins were measured shortly after dialysis initiation and one year later. We compared protein-based risk models derived by elastic net regression to the Pooled Cohort Equations(PCE) optimized for these cohorts(Refit PCE), and to an Expanded Refit PCE that included Troponin T and N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide.In CRIC, 149 proteins were associated with MACE at false discovery rate<0.05. Among 22 proteins significant at Bonferroni p<8×10 -6 , proteins that validated in PACE included Sushi von Willebrand factor type A EGF and pentraxin domain-containing protein 1(SVEP1), Complement component C7, R-spondin 4, Tenascin, Fibulin-3 and Fibulin-5. Complement pathways were prominent in network analyses. SVEP1 surpassed other markers by statistical significance, with CRIC HR per log 2 1.8 (p=2.1×10 -12 ) and HR per annual doubling 1.6 (p=6.8×10 -6 ). For 2-year MACE, AUC(95%CI) for SVEP1 alone was 0.72(0.59, 0.84) in CRIC, and 0.73(0.63, 0.81) in PACE. SVEP1 surpassed the Expanded Refit PCE in CRIC (0.61 (0.48, 0.73)) (p=0.038). In the pooled CRIC + PACE cohort, SVEP1 AUC(95%CI) (0.79(0.70, 0.88)) surpassed Refit PCE (0.61(0.51, 0.72)) (p=0.004).SVEP1, a 390 kDa protein unlikely to be renally cleared, surpassed over 6000 other proteins and by itself outperformed traditional clinical risk models in predicting MACE in two populations of patients undergoing maintenance hemodialysis. Future studies should provide mechanistic insights behind these findings.Patients with kidney failure undergoing hemodialysis have 20-fold higher cardiovascular mortality compared to the general population, and conventional risk factors have low prognostic utility for these patients.By applying large-scale circulating proteomics in two independent hemodialysis cohorts, we have discovered >20 novel proteins that predict major adverse cardiovascular events(MACE).Sushi von Willebrand factor type A EGF and pentraxin domain-containing protein 1(SVEP1) surpassed >6000 individual proteins and clinical factors for predicting MACE.
Research to date describes the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the hypothalamus as the master pacemaker that synchronizes circadian rhythms in peripheral tissues. However, recent high-impact studies demonstrate that non-SCN tissues can also coordinate rhythms in other peripheral tissues. However, the extent to which the cardiac clock regulates peripheral clocks has not yet been tested. Therefore, we investigated the role of the cardiac clock in modulating extra-cardiac circadian function using a model of cardiac-specific deletion of the core clock protein Bmal1 (Bmal1 cKO). Bmal1 cKO mice demonstrated attenuated day-night differences in skeletal muscle core clock gene expression (Bmal1, Clock, Per1) and circadian expressed metabolic genes (Pdk4, Ppara) as well as impaired day-night muscle grip strength. In the kidney, Bmal1 cKO mice had blunted core clock gene and water balance gene expression (Avp) compared to WT mice. Proteomic analysis of serum identified fibulin 5 (Fbln5) as a potential cardiokine mediating peripheral circadian effects, with rhythmic expression of Fbln5 disrupted in the heart and serum of Bmal1 cKO mice compared to WT. Exogenous treatment of synchronized C2C12 myotubes and human renal cells with rFbln5 disrupted rhythmic clock gene expression. In vivo, supplementation of Fbln5 in the drinking water of healthy wildtype C57Bl6 mice also disrupted kidney muscle rhythms. RNA sequencing data suggested that Fbln5 alters circadian output programs via stress-activated mechanotransduction and metabolic remodeling. Importantly, these changes occur without overt SCN dysfunction. Together, we demonstrate a critical role for the heart in regulating peripheral circadian control through the novel circadian cardiokine Fbln5.© 2026 American Physiological Society.
The extracellular matrix (ECM) is crucial in building the extracellular environment and translating extracellular information into biochemical signals that sustain tissue functions. Fibulin-5 (Fbln5) is a multifunctional ECM protein essential for forming elastic fibers and regulating cellular functions by binding to integrins. Although fibulin-5 expression decreases with age in human skin, its functional implications, particularly in epidermal stem cell regulation, remain largely unexplored. Here, we show that the loss of Fbln5 in mice leads to early impairments of epidermal stem cell properties that resemble changes observed during chronological skin aging. Fbln5 deficiency is associated with reduced expression of integrins and other cell junction proteins and decreased YAP activation in epidermal stem cells. Pharmacological inhibition of YAP reduces the fast-cycling stem cell region in mice and downregulates the fast-cycling epidermal stem cell marker SLC1A3 in human primary keratinocytes. At the cellular level, YAP activity and SLC1A3 expression are modulated by cell density, with low-density cultures exhibiting high nuclear YAP and elevated SLC1A3 expression, whereas high-density conditions suppress both. Under high-density conditions, fibulin-5 coating partially restores nuclear YAP localization and increases SLC1A3 expression. Together, these findings suggest that, beyond its structural role in elastic fiber formation, fibulin-5 contributes to the maintenance of epidermal stem cell balance during skin aging by linking extracellular alterations to YAP-dependent intracellular signaling.© 2026 The Author(s). Aging Cell published by Anatomical Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
PURPOSE: Pulmonary hypertension is a serious pulmonary vascular disease. During the course of development, pulmonary artery smooth muscle cells (PASMCs) exhibit hyperplasia, enhanced anti-apoptotic effect, cell deformation, and migration. S100A4 protein is a member of the S100 protein family, which can deform and migrate arterial smooth muscle cells. Pulmonary hypertension can increase S100A4 protein expression. However, the underlying mechanism by which S100A4 is involved in the progression of pulmonary hypertension remains unclear. METHODS: In this study, the effects of recombinant human S100A4 protein treatment on cell proliferation, migration, and Fibulin-5 expression, as well as the effects of Fibulin-5 interference on cell proliferation and migration, were evaluated in human PASMCs. Subsequently, the impact of Fibulin-5 interference on cell proliferation and migration following recombinant human S100A4 protein treatment was investigated. RESULTS: It was demonstrated that exogenous S100A4 upregulated Fibulin-5 expression, thereby promoted PASMC proliferation. Conversely, Fibulin-5 interference was found to reverse the effects of Re-S100A4. CONCLUSION: This study further complements and improves the mechanism network related to pulmonary hypertension, thereby demonstrating that S100A4 and Fibulin-5 may become a new target for clinical intervention in pulmonary hypertension.
In thyroid eye disease (TED), the connective tissue behind the eye becomes inflamed and expands, partly due to excessive deposition of hyaluronan (HA), which absorbs water, leading to osmotic swelling. Orbital fibroblasts (OFs) from patients with TED overexpress insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (IGF-1R), a receptor that promotes cell survival, proliferation, and HA production. These processes contribute to orbital tissue remodeling and expansion, as well as to the inflammation and fibrosis characteristic of TED. Therapeutic options remain limited, highlighting the need for additional targeted therapies. Lonigutamab is a next-generation anti-IGF-1R monoclonal antibody that binds to a distinct epitope on IGF-1R with high affinity, eliciting a novel mechanism of action.To evaluate whether lonigutamab inhibits HA production and characterize its mechanism of action using TED OFs.TED OFs were treated with lonigutamab in the presence or absence of IGF-1. HA was measured by ELISA and agarose gel electrophoresis. IGF-1R levels were assessed by flow cytometry and Western blot. The proteasome inhibitor MG132 and the lysosome/autophagy inhibitor bafilomycin were used to probe lonigutamab-mediated degradation pathways.Lonigutamab significantly reduced basal and IGF-1-induced HA production across all evaluated TED OF strains. Lonigutamab also decreased mature IGF-1R protein levels in a time- and dose-dependent manner by promoting IGF-1R internalization and subsequent degradation through proteasomal and lysosomal pathways.These findings suggest that lonigutamab suppresses HA production in TED OFs via efficient IGF-1R internalization and degradation, supporting its unique mechanism of action and potential as a therapeutic option for TED.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Endocrine Society.
The presence or absence of autoantibodies distinguishes patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) as seropositive (SP) or seronegative (SN), with SP generally associated with poorer prognosis. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are important mediators of intercellular communication and may contribute to RA pathogenesis by disseminating immunologically active molecules that promote systemic inflammation. However, the protein cargo of circulating EVs associated with RA seropositivity remains poorly characterized. Therefore, we aimed to identify EV-associated proteins linked to RA and seropositivity and evaluate their relationship with clinical features.Blood-derived EVs were isolated from patients with SP and SN disease and from healthy donors (HD) and were characterized according to international guidelines. EV protein cargo was analyzed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Differentially enriched proteins were identified in patients, and their associations with serum autoantibody levels, circulating cytokines, and disease activity were assessed.A total of 358 proteins were identified in EVs, most of which have been previously reported in these structures. Several complement proteins, collagens, and immunoglobulins were lower in patients with RA than in HD. Notably, aggrecan (ACAN) and the polymeric immunoglobulin receptor (PIGR), not previously described in RA-derived EVs, were specifically enriched in SP patients compared with both patients with SN RA and HD. Their enrichment was significantly associated with autoantibody levels and disease activity.Our findings identify ACAN and PIGR as novel EV-associated proteins linked to RA seropositivity. Their association with autoantibody levels and disease activity suggests that circulating EVs may reflect biological pathways connecting cartilage remodeling, mucosal immunity, and systemic autoimmunity, supporting their potential utility as biomarkers and contributors to disease pathogenesis.© 2026 The Authors.
Polymeric immunoglobulin receptor (PIGR) is a transmembrane protein involved in the transcytosis of polymeric IgA and IgM immunoglobulins. Recent data from our group described that systemic deficiency of Pigr reduces atherosclerosis development, which is associated with increased plasma IgA and IgM levels.To analyse the role of Pigr deficiency in hematopoietic cells in an experimental model of atherosclerosis in mice.We analyzed PIGR distribution in early atherosclerotic plaques compared to healthy aortic samples, as well as PIGR expression in macrophages derived from human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). The contribution of hematopoietic Pigr to experimental atherosclerosis was assessed by performing bone marrow transplantation in Ldlr-/- mice fed an atherogenic diet for 10weeks.PIGR expression was observed in the intima of early human atherosclerotic lesions, showing colocalization with macrophages. In addition, PIGR levels increased during the in vitro differentiation of human PBMCs into macrophages. Analysis of the hematopoietic lineage-specific Pigr deficiency in atherosclerosis revealed that Pigr-/- mice displayed significantly reduced plaque size in the aortic sinuses as well as a strong decrease in macrophage infiltration, while no changes in contractile vascular smooth muscle cells and collagen content were observed. These effects occurred independently of systemic changes in lipids, IgA and IgM levels.Hematopoietic Pigr deficiency attenuates experimental atherosclerosis, although the molecular mechanisms underlying this protective effect remain to be fully elucidated.Copyright © 2026 Sociedad Española de Arteriosclerosis. Publicado por Elsevier España, S.L.U. All rights reserved.
The mucosal barrier presents a significant challenge for non-invasive delivery of macromolecular therapeutics, often requiring administration with poor bioavailability and increased toxicity risks. The polymeric immunoglobulin receptor (pIgR) contains an extracellular secretory component (SC) for immunoglobulin binding and a membrane-anchored stem domain capable of apical-to-basolateral transcytosis. We hypothesized that targeting the stem domain could enable active drug transport across mucosal barriers.Using phage display, we identified four high-affinity nanobodies against human and murine pIgR. Two lead candidates (3LTHMP-4 and 3LTHMP-5) demonstrated efficient apical-to-basolateral transport in vitro (Transwell assays) and in vivo (fluorescence imaging). Engineered bispecific antibodies fusing these nanobodies with anti-IL-5 mAb reslizumab were administered via inhalation in a murine asthma model at one-tenth the intraperitoneal reslizumab dose.The bispecific antibodies showed significant therapeutic efficacy, while reslizumab alone at equivalent concentrations failed to demonstrate efficacy. Hydrogen-Deuterium Exchange Mass Spectrometry (HDX-MS) revealed that both 3LTHMP-4 and 3LTHMP-5 specifically bind to the pIgR stem domain (residues 578-612), a region distinct from the dimeric IgA binding site.These findings suggest that stem domain-specific binding may facilitate transport across the mucosal barrier while preserving native receptor physiology, offering a potential strategy for effective transmucosal delivery of biologics.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42491525 is a review article
Angiogenesis fuels cancer progression, yet its immunomodulatory role in neuroendocrine malignancies remains poorly understood. Recently, Wang et al. identified a blood-brain barrier-like vascular gate that mediates immune exclusion and immunotherapy resistance in small-cell lung cancer. Targeting this barrier with OSI-906 enhances CD8+ T-cell infiltration and immunotherapy efficacy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Trigeminal neuropathic pain (TNP) is a severe facial pain disorder whose pathogenesis is incompletely understood. We previously identified follistatin (FST) as a contributor to peripheral nerve injury-induced neuropathic pain through direct binding to the insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor (IGF1R) in the dorsal root ganglia. However, the regulatory mechanisms governing FST expression and its specific role in TNP remain unclear. Here, we report that FST is upregulated in trigeminal ganglion (TG) neurons following partial infraorbital nerve transection (pIONT), and that this process is regulated by the transcription factors ATF3 and SOX11. Genetic deletion or knockdown of Fst attenuated pIONT-induced TNP and reduced TG neuronal hyperexcitability. Intra-TG injection of FST promoted pain-like behaviors and activated ERK and AKT signaling in an IGF1R-dependent manner. In addition, FST decreased voltage-gated potassium (Kv) channel currents and enhanced neuronal excitability via IGF1R-ERK/AKT signaling. Notably, FST upregulated a cohort of genes, including Fst itself, Cyp26a1, and Ccl2, through the transcription factor Specificity Protein 1 (Sp1). Consistently, pIONT increased Sp1 phosphorylation, and pharmacological inhibition or knockdown of Sp1 alleviated mechanical allodynia, reduced the expression of Fst, Cyp26a1, and Ccl2, and decreased the excitability of TG neurons. Collectively, these results reveal a previously unknown mechanism by which FST activates IGF1R-ERK/AKT signaling to decrease Kv channel currents and promote Sp1-regulated gene expression, contributing to peripheral sensitization and TNP pathogenesis. Our data indicate that targeting the FST-IGF1R-ERK/AKT-Sp1 axis may represent a promising therapeutic strategy for TNP.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to The Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Sciences and Chinese Pharmacological Society.
Zearalenone is a common mycotoxin that impairs reproductive function, particularly by damaging ovarian granulosa cells. This study investigated the protective effect and underlying mechanism of scutellarin against zearalenone-induced injury in porcine ovarian granulosa cells. Cells were isolated and identified by follicle-stimulating hormone receptor immunofluorescence. Cell viability, cell-cycle distribution, and related molecular changes were evaluated using the MTT assay, flow cytometry, qRT-PCR, and Western blot. Scutellarin showed no obvious cytotoxicity within the tested range and attenuated the zearalenone-induced reduction in cell viability. Flow cytometry analysis demonstrated that scutellarin alleviated zearalenone-induced cell-cycle disturbance. At the molecular level, scutellarin upregulated the expression of cell-cycle-related factors, including CDK1, CDK2, CDK4, and PCNA, and increased the expression of Wnt/β-catenin signaling-related proteins, including WNT5A, β-catenin, c-MYC, and CCND1. WNT5A knockdown further indicated that scutellarin-mediated regulation of PCNA, CDK1, and CDK4 is WNT5A-dependent, whereas its effect on CDK2 may involve a WNT5A-independent mechanism. These findings indicate that scutellarin alleviates zearalenone-induced granulosa cell injury partly through WNT5A-associated modulation of cell-cycle-related proteins, providing mechanistic insights for its protective effects.
Mucosal immunity-the body's frontline defense, harboring 80% of the body's immune cells-represents a potent yet underexploited avenue for cancer vaccination. Here, we developed an oral biohybrid vaccine platform by integrating tumor antigen-loaded liposomes with fimbriae-enriched bacteria (Escherichia coli or VNP20009) through bacterial hitchhiking or membrane hybridization. These biohybrids promote mucosal antigen delivery via glycoprotein 2 (GP2)-mediated microfold-cell (M-cell) transcytosis, enhancing antigen cross-presentation and activation of a mucosa-periphery-tumor immune cascade. Bacterial membrane-hybridized vaccines outperform bacteria-hitchhiking counterparts by reconfiguring dendritic cell (DC) subsets within gut-associated lymphoid tissues (GALTs) and triggering C-C chemokine receptor type 7 (CCR7)-dependent immune cell trafficking, thereby propagating mucosal immune activation toward distal tumor microenvironment (TME) reprogramming and tumor control. When combined with PD-1 blockade, this strategy enhances antitumor efficacy by promoting effector cell mobilization and establishing memory against tumor rechallenge. Collectively, these findings position bacteria-derived arsenal biohybrids as a versatile oral vaccine strategy, advancing mucosal immunotherapy for cancer.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
This study investigated the association between anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH), gonadotropin levels, and the follicle stimulating hormone receptor (FSHR) rs6166 polymorphism in Iraqi women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS).A case-control study was conducted from October 2024 to May 2025, enrolling PCOS patients and age-matched eumenorrheic controls. Serum luteinizing hormone (LH), FSH, and AMH were measured via immunoassay, and FSHR rs6166 genotyping was performed using polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism.Serum AMH was significantly higher in PCOS patients (9.24 ± 0.23 ng/mL) than in controls (4.03 ± 0.09 ng/mL; P < 0.0001). The AA genotype and A allele of FSHR rs6166 were significantly associated with increased PCOS risk (odds ratio [OR] = 3.55 and 2.03, respectively). receiver operating characteristic curve analysis demonstrated that AMH had superior diagnostic performance (area under the curve [AUC] = 0.985) with an optimal cut-off of 6.17 ng/mL (94.3% sensitivity, 93.2% specificity), outperforming LH (AUC = 0.906) and FSH (AUC = 0.607). A strong positive correlation was found between AMH and LH levels (r = 0.627, P < 0.0001).Elevated AMH levels and the FSHR rs6166 A allele are significantly associated with PCOS risk in this population. AMH demonstrated exceptional diagnostic accuracy, suggesting its utility as a potent biomarker for PCOS detection and definition.Copyright: © 2026 Journal of Education and Health Promotion.
Loss of tolerance to GP2, an antimicrobial immune-modulating component of intestinal cells and receptor on microfold cells, is associated with disease severity in Crohn's disease (CD). However, the role of GP2 in inflammatory bowel diseases remains poorly understood. This study aimed to evaluate fecal GP2 levels in patients with ulcerative colitis (UC) and CD and to examine associations with disease activity, response to biologic therapy, and microbial features.We conducted a retrospective study of adults with UC, CD, and healthy controls recruited at a tertiary IBD clinic. Fecal GP2 levels and serum anti-GP2 antibodies were measured using ELISA and correlated with disease activity, inflammatory biomarkers (CRP, fecal calprotectin and elastase activity), and microbiome assessed by 16S rRNA amplicon sequencing.The study included 87 patients with CD, 58 with UC, and 31 healthy controls. Fecal GP2 levels were significantly lower in UC, particularly in active UC, compared with CD or controls (P ≤ 0.05). In CD, fecal GP2 levels did not differ significantly from controls across activity strata but correlated with elastase activity. Further, fecal GP2 levels increased following induction therapy among clinical responders and were associated with gut microbial diversity. No correlation was observed between serum anti-GP2 and fecal GP2 levels, or serum anti-GP2 and responsiveness to induction therapy.Fecal GP2 concentrations are reduced in UC, particularly during active disease, but are preserved in CD. This suggests a disease-specific pattern in UC, potentially reflecting altered microbial interactions or increased luminal protein degradation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Synaptic density is strongly correlated with cognitive function in many neurological disorders. All synapses contain synaptic vesicle glycoprotein 2 A (SV2A), making it a potential therapeutic target for neurodecline. ABBV-552, a high-affinity positive SV2A modulator, increases neurotransmitter release, improving synaptic efficiency. This Phase 1, open-label, mass balance study examined ABBV-552 safety, pharmacokinetics, metabolism, and elimination.Eight healthy males were orally administered 15 mg [14C]-ABBV-552. Safety was assessed via treatment-emergent adverse event (TEAE), vital sign, electrocardiogram, and laboratory value monitoring. Serial blood, urine, and fecal samples were collected pre-dose, Days 1-14, and daily until discharge. Sample radioactivity was measured with HPLC and metabolites characterized with mass spectrometry.Eight participants (30-49 years old) received 15 mg [14C]-ABBV-552 (~ 100 µCi) and were included in analyses (3 prematurely withdrew [personal reasons]). All TEAEs were Grade 1 in severity; euphoria (25.0%), dizziness (25.0%), and muscular weakness (12.5%) were deemed possibly-related to ABBV-552. No meaningful changes in laboratory values, vital signs, or ECGs were observed. Mean radioactive recovery was 78.8% (urine: 70.9%, feces: 7.83%), with < 1% parent drug in excreta. Parent and one metabolite (M2, mono-oxidized parent) accounted for 84% and 13%, respectively, of circulating drug-related material. M5, M9, and M33 were most prominent in urine (~ 13%, ~ 17%, ~ 11% of dose, respectively); M2/M36 (coeluted; 1.4% of dose) in feces.Orally-administered ABBV-552 was well absorbed and primarily recovered in urine as metabolites. M2 was the only major circulating metabolite. Therefore, ABBV-552 is primarily hepatically metabolized and metabolites are renally eliminated. These findings support further investigation of ABBV-552 in neurodegenerative disorders.ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT06278766) Date of registration: 26 February 2024.© 2026. AbbVie Inc.
The pituitary and gonads serve as central regulatory hubs and functional organs for gametogenesis and maturation. In this study, we performed single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) of the pituitary and ovary in pre-spawning Pelteobagrus fulvidraco to elucidate the cellular landscape and regulatory pathways governing gonadal development and oocyte maturation. Pituitaries from four female fish (weight: 43.8 ± 3.2 g; length: 14.1 ± 0.7 cm) and four male fish (weight: 78.2 ± 11.2 g; length: 18.9 ± 1.1 cm) were subjected to single-cell transcriptomic analysis. A total of 17 distinct cell types were identified in the female pituitary, whereas 15 cell types were detected in the male pituitary. Both male and female pituitaries comprised multiple hormone-secreting endocrine populations, indicating a largely conserved cellular composition. However, sex-specific differences were observed in thyrotrope subtypes, suggesting potential sexual dimorphism in pituitary endocrine regulation. Examination of receptor gene expression revealed cell-type-specific regulatory capacities, highlighting gonadotropin, steroid, and neuropeptide responsiveness across pituitary populations. In the ovary, 10 cell types were identified, with granulosa cells (~22.9%) and theca cells (~8.6%) showing distinct transcriptional profiles. Follicle-stimulating hormone receptor (fshr) was highly expressed in granulosa cells, whereas luteinizing hormone receptor (lhcgr) and steroidogenic genes (hsd3b1, pgr) were predominantly localized in theca cells, indicating functional compartmentalization of gonadotropin and steroid signaling. Prostaglandin (PG) and melatonin (MT) pathways were implicated in paracrine regulation: the prostaglandin synthase ptgs2a was expressed in theca, germ, and immune cells, while ptger2a was expressed in granulosa cells; melatonin synthesis genes (aanat1, aanat2, asmtl) were confined to granulosa cells, with receptors (mtnr1ab) in germ cells. These findings suggest that ovarian paracrine signaling complements systemic endocrine control to modulate oocyte maturation and ovulation. This single-cell atlas provides a high-resolution framework of reproductive cell types and signaling networks in P. fulvidraco, offering insights for improving artificial breeding and reproductive management in aquaculture.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42442675 is a review article
Background Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a common endocrine disorder characterized by granulosa cell dysfunction, including impaired proliferation, excessive apoptosis, and ferroptosis, which contribute to abnormal follicular development and ovarian dysfunction. This study aims to investigate the effects of Osteoglycin (OGN) on proliferation, apoptosis, and ferroptosis in human ovarian granulosa cells, and to analyze its regulation of follicle stimulating hormone receptor (FSHR), providing insights into granulosa cell dysfunction associated with PCOS. Methods This study investigated the function of OGN in KGN granulosa cells by transfecting them with OGN-plasmid for overexpression or OGN-siRNA for knockdown. Cell viability was assessed using the MTT assay, while apoptosis was analyzed by flow cytometry. Ferroptosis was evaluated by measuring intracellular ROS and MDA levels, and protein expression was examined via Western blotting. Additionally, RT-qPCR and Western blotting were used to assess mRNA and protein levels of FSHR to determine the regulatory effect of OGN on FSHR expression. Results Overexpression of OGN significantly promoted granulosa cell proliferation and inhibited apoptosis, whereas knockdown of OGN suppressed proliferation and induced apoptosis. Mechanistic studies revealed that knockdown of OGN upregulated cleaved-Caspase3 expression, increased intracellular ROS and MDA levels, and reduced GPX4 expression, indicating the activation of both apoptotic and ferroptotic pathways. Furthermore, OGN positively regulated FSHR expression, as FSHR levels were increased with OGN overexpression and decreased following OGN knockdown at both mRNA and protein levels. Conclusion This study demonstrates that OGN plays a critical role in regulating granulosa cell survival and ferroptosis and may contribute to follicular development and PCOS-related ovarian dysfunction by modulating FSHR.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Human ovarian folliculogenesis is a complex, tightly regulated process that is challenging to study directly in vivo. Although in vitro models are essential for mechanistic research, existing systems remain suboptimal because they cannot recapitulate the spatiotemporal dynamics of follicle development. This study presents a 3D culture model that supports human follicle development from the secondary to the antral stage. This model successfully recapitulates key in vivo morphological events, including sustained follicular growth, a distinct diameter expansion phase from day 10, and antral cavity formation around day 20. Importantly, this developmental progression culminated in the successful retrieval of viable oocytes at the germinal vesicle (GV) stage. Furthermore, immunofluorescence analysis revealed distinct expression patterns of gonadotropin receptors in somatic cells, consistent with granulosa and theca cell identity. Inner granulosa-like cells exhibited high follicle-stimulating hormone receptor (FSHR), whereas outer theca-like cells showed high luteinizing hormone receptor (LHR) expression. This model offers a valuable platform for studying human folliculogenesis and reproductive toxicology and provides a reference for optimizing in vitro follicle culture systems for secondary-to-antral stage development.
To examine associations of inherited chromosomally integrated human herpesvirus 6 (iciHHV-6) with incident dementia and mortality, characterize proteomic and metabolomic correlates of carrier status, and evaluate whether these biomarkers relate to dementia and mortality risk.We analyzed UK Biobank participants ≥50 years of age with plasma metabolomics (N = 138,676) and proteomics (N ≤ 15,416) data and ≈15 years of follow-up. Cox proportional hazards models adjusted for key confounding factors evaluated associations of iciHHV-6 with dementia and mortality. Multivariable linear models assessed iciHHV-6 associations with metabolomic and proteomic profiles. Mediation and interaction were evaluated using structural equation models and Cox models with biomarker interactions. Least absolute shrinkage and selection operator regression identified independent proteomic and metabolomic predictors using imputed biomarker data.iciHHV-6 was associated with higher dementia risk (hazard ratio [HR] = 1.32), particularly among women (HR = 1.66) and individuals with elevated Alzheimer's disease polygenic risk (HR = 1.49). Branched-chain amino acids (leucine and isoleucine) were elevated among carriers without mediating dementia risk. Proteomic analyses identified 126 nominally associated iciHHV-6-related proteins, many of which (Neurofilament Light Chain (NEFL), Glial Fibrillary Acidic Protein (GFAP), Yes-Associated Protein 1 (YAP1), Sialic Acid-binding Immunoglobulin-like Lectin 5 (SIGLEC5), Interleukin 19 (IL19), A Disintegrin And Metalloproteinase with Thrombospondin Motifs 16 (ADAMTS16), Sphingomyelin Phosphodiesterase 1 (SMPD1)) were also associated with dementia and/or mortality. Exploratory pathway analyses suggested enrichment of proteins related to immune regulation and post-translational modification. Predictive models identified NEFL, GFAP, Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor A (VEGF), Brevican (BCAN), remnant cholesterol, and polyunsaturated fatty acids as dementia predictors (area under the curve [AUC] = 0.83), whereas NEFL, Growth Differentiation Factor 15 (GDF15) Latent Transforming Growth Factor Beta Binding Protein 2 (LTBP2), Ectodysplasin A2 Receptor (EDA2R) and Advanced Glycosylation End-product Specific Receptor (AGER) predicted mortality (AUC = 0.70).iciHHV-6 was associated with increased dementia risk, particularly among women and genetically susceptible individuals, with neuroimmune and metabolic biomarker profiles potentially relevant to brain aging and mortality risk.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research & Clinical Interventions published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Within the plant endomembrane system, the vesicle coat protein clathrin localizes to the plasma membrane (PM) and the trans-Golgi Network/early endosome (TGN/EE). While the role of clathrin in endocytosis at the PM is well established, its function at TGN/EE, presumably in late secretion (trafficking from the TGN/EE to the cell surface) or en route to the vacuole, is debated. Similarly debated are potential homeostatic mechanisms balancing the trafficking routes, especially endocytosis and late secretion. We address these questions in Arabidopsis thaliana using conditional silencing of CLATHRIN HEAVY CHAIN (CHC), conditional overexpression of the clathrin uncoating factor AUXILIN-LIKE1, and secretory mutants. CHC silencing interferes with trafficking of cargoes destined for the apoplast and the PM, supporting a function of clathrin in late secretion. The secretory cargoes become abnormally rerouted from the TGN/EE to the vacuole. Unlike CHC silencing, overexpression of AUXILIN-LIKE1 selectively inhibits clathrin-mediated endocytosis while secretion continues normally at early points of induction. Conversely, secretory mutants exhibit a reduced PM recruitment of clathrin, and variably, of the TPLATE endocytic component. Together, our data show a role of clathrin in secretion and suggest secretion as a fundamental trafficking process to which endocytosis is adjusted by a weak homeostatic mechanism.© 2026 The Author(s). New Phytologist © 2026 New Phytologist Foundation.
Apolipoprotein A-IV (ApoA-IV) is a glycoprotein secreted by the small intestine to regulate lipid metabolism and satiety. Its role in insulin-independent glucose homeostasis remains largely unknown. In this study, we demonstrate that intestinal ApoA-IV overexpression significantly attenuates diet-induced obesity and hyperglycemia following severe β-cell loss. Over a 20-week high-fat diet challenge, ApoA-IV transgenic (ApoA-IV-Tg) mice maintained significantly lower adiposity than wild-type controls, driven by elevated energy expenditure and fatty acid oxidation rather than reduced caloric intake. Beyond weight maintenance, ApoA-IV maintained excellent systemic glycemic control and enhanced peripheral insulin sensitivity. Most notably, ApoA-IV significantly attenuated hyperglycemia following streptozotocin (STZ)-induced β-cell ablation, maintaining glucose stability despite severe insulin deficiency. Mechanistically, this protection results from a blunted glucagon response and the subsequent suppression of the hepatic pCREB-G6Pase gluconeogenic signaling pathway. In vitro evidence confirms that ApoA-IV directly inhibits pancreatic α-cell glucagon secretion through an LDL receptor-related protein 1 (LRP1)-dependent pathway, reinforced by the precise co-localization of LRP1 and glucagon in pancreatic islets. Furthermore, ApoA-IV-Tg mice were protected from the STZ-induced corticosterone surge and systemic lipolysis. Collectively, these findings establish the ApoA-IV-LRP1 signaling axis as a potent metabolic switch, providing a promising insulin-independent strategy for managing obesity and diabetes.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42425907 is a review article
We have previously showed that loss of clathrin light chain (CLC) 2 and CLC3 in Arabidopsis simultaneously impairs autophagy pathway, thereby resulting in enhanced disease resistance. To understand whether clathrin heavy chain (CHC) proteins play similar roles as CLCs, we used combined approaches of genetics, cell biology, and resistance assays to investigate the roles of CHCs in the autophagy pathway and in autophagy-related immunity. The results showed that the loss of either CHC1 or CHC2 accelerated dark-induced senescence, a hallmark phenotype of defective autophagy, suggesting that the autophagy pathway may be impaired. Consistent with this phenotype, the number of autophagosomes induced under dark treatment conditions was significantly reduced in both chc1-2 and chc2-2 mutants, which indicated that the autophagic flux was significantly reduced in both mutants. The disease resistance assay showed that both mutants exhibited enhanced resistance to the fungal pathogen Golovinomyces cichoracearum, which was highly correlated with elevated reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation and increased callose deposition. Together, these findings reveal that CHC-dependent functions are required for efficient autophagy and disruption of clathrin-mediated trafficking leads to the activation of plant immune responses due to an impaired autophagy pathway. This study provides a theoretical basis to enhance disease resistance in crops through manipulation of autophagy pathway.
Clathrin-mediated endocytosis is essential for neural development and function. Recent studies have linked de novo mutations in the clathrin heavy-chain gene to a range of neurodevelopmental disorders. In this study, we have modeled two pathogenic mutations, L1047P and W1108R, in Drosophila melanogaster and examined their effects on vesicle dynamics, ligand uptake, neuronal development, and memory formation. Our data show that expression of these mutant forms of clathrin heavy chain results in reduced survival and defective learning when expressed ubiquitously or exclusively in neurons. These mutations also disrupted vesicle dynamics and reduced ligand uptake under conditions of heat stress. While no obvious defects in neuronal morphology and function were observed at the larval neuromuscular junction, we noticed significant disruptions in the expression of markers associated with synapse maturation. Overall, our study establishes a model that can provide insights into the cellular basis of clathrin heavy-chain-related neurodevelopmental disorders.© 2026 The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42307833 is a review article
The LDL receptor related protein 1 (LRP1) is a host entry factor for Rift Valley fever virus (RVFV), a negative sense RNA virus in the Bunyaviricetes class within the Phenuiviridae family. Previous studies revealed that RVFV glycoproteins (Gn and Gc; GnGc) primarily interact with LRP1 clusters II (CLII) and IV (CLIV) to promote viral entry. However, the mechanism of RVFV GnGc binding to LRP1 is not fully characterized. In this study, we have successfully mapped the roles of individual LRP1 ligand binding regions, known as CR domains, and identified CR25 to be sufficient for high affinity RVFV GnGc binding. Analysis of LRP1 multi-CR binding to RVFV GnGc also revealed redundant modes of binding for LRP1. Mutation of a key aromatic residue within CR25 resulted in near complete loss of binding to RVFV GnGc, suggesting a critical role for CR25 in binding to GnGc in vitro. We further assessed the capacity of these CR domains to inhibit RVFV-MP12GFP infection and determined that more than two contiguous LRP1 CR domains are necessary for in vitro neutralization. Together, these results provide a biochemical basis for LRP1 binding with RVFV GnGc and suggest that a similar mechanism may be at play in LRP1-mediated infection by emerging and re-emerging viruses, including bunyaviruses, alphaviruses, and flaviviruses. These results also highlight that truncated LRP1 ectodomains can be used for immunogen design and therapeutic targeting.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Influenza A virus (IAV) infection can lead to severe complications, including acute lung injury, driven by hypoxia, excessive reactive oxygen species (ROS), and cytokine release syndrome (CRS). To address the limitations of current therapies, such as insufficient antiviral efficacy and poor CRS control, we developed polydopamine-platinum core-shell nanoparticles (PDA@Pt) with dual antiviral and anti-inflammatory functions. The PDA core scavenges ROS to alleviate CRS and disrupts viral replication, while the Pt shell inhibits viral entry and catalyzes the decomposition of H2O2 into O2 to relieve hypoxia. PDA@Pt demonstrated excellent biocompatibility and potent antiviral activity by suppressing viral replication through dual mechanisms: inhibition of clathrin-mediated endocytosis via downregulation of clathrin heavy chain and dynamin, and multimodal therapeutic effects via ROS scavenging, O2 generation, and suppression of proinflammatory cytokines. Furthermore, PDA@Pt modulated key signaling pathways, including JAK/STAT and NF-κB, highlighting its broad-spectrum potential against viral infections and associated inflammatory complications.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Spring viremia of carp virus (SVCV), an aquatic rhabdovirus, causes lethal disease and major economic losses in carp aquaculture, yet no licensed antivirals are available. In this study, we identify the plant-derived diterpenoid quinone cryptotanshinone (CPT) as a potent inhibitor of SVCV that acts by inhibiting clathrin-mediated endocytosis (CME) and attenuating early mitochondrial apoptosis. CPT was well tolerated by epithelioma papulosum cyprinid cells (50% cytotoxic concentration [CC50] = 303.2 µM) and suppressed SVCV replication in a dose-dependent manner (50% inhibitory concentration [IC50] = 3.2 µM), reducing nucleoprotein (SVCV-N) gene expression and infectious virion production by >99% at 16 μM. Time-of-addition/removal and virion pre-incubation assays revealed that CPT acts predominantly at early entry or early post-entry steps: CPT did not impair viral attachment but selectively blocked internalization, causing DiO-labeled SVCV particles to remain trapped at the plasma membrane. Mechanistically, CPT inhibited CME, as evidenced by reduced transferrin uptake and redistribution of clathrin heavy chain from the cytosol to the cell surface. CPT also preserved mitochondrial integrity by limiting Bcl-2-associated X protein translocation, cytochrome c release, and caspase-9/3 activation. In vivo, therapeutic bath treatment with 4 μM CPT significantly lowered viral loads, decreased cumulative mortality, and reduced horizontal transmission in juvenile common carp, whereas prophylactic oral CPT primed type I interferon and interferon-stimulated gene expression, and markedly improved survival after SVCV challenge. Together, these findings define CME-dependent internalization as a druggable entry checkpoint for an aquatic rhabdovirus and highlight CPT as a promising antiviral lead for integrated control of SVCV.IMPORTANCEViral diseases are a major bottleneck to sustainable aquaculture, yet most control strategies still depend on husbandry and culling rather than on mechanism-based antiviral therapy. For spring viremia of carp virus (SVCV), a notifiable rhabdovirus of global concern, it remains unclear whether host entry pathways in fish are realistically "druggable" and how small molecules can be integrated into practical farm interventions. Here, we use cryptotanshinone (CPT) as a chemical probe to demonstrate that clathrin-mediated endocytosis in fish cells can be selectively perturbed to block SVCV internalization, and that this strategy is compatible with immersion and oral delivery in juvenile carp. At the same time, CPT reshapes host responses by stabilizing mitochondrial function and sustaining antiviral signaling, thereby linking a defined entry pathway to cell-death control and innate immunity in vivo. These findings open a conceptual route toward host-targeted, entry-focused antivirals for aquatic rhabdoviruses and provide a translational framework for developing environmentally compatible antivirals in aquaculture.
Familial chylomicronemia syndrome (FCS) is a rare disorder characterized by the accumulation of chylomicrons in the circulation due to genetic defects or autoantibodies affecting lipoprotein lipase (LPL), the key enzyme responsible for the metabolism of chylomicrons and very-low-density lipoproteins (VLDL), or its associated proteins, including apolipoprotein (apo) C-II, apoA-V, glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored high-density lipoprotein-binding protein 1 (GPIHBP1), and lipase maturation factor 1 (LMF1). This condition is associated with markedly elevated serum triglyceride (TG) levels and, in severe cases, recurrent episodes of pancreatitis and eruptive xanthomas. Among these etiologies, genetic deficiency of GPIHBP1 is exceedingly rare. We aimed to clarify the clinical and genetic basis and treatment strategies of a patient with GPIHBP1 deficiency.A 47-year-old woman with a childhood diagnosis of FCS presented with severe epigastric pain and was admitted to Rinku General Medical Center for emergency management of acute pancreatitis secondary to severe chylomicronemia. She had a history of severe hypertriglyceridemia complicated by pancreatitis during her first pregnancy and extreme hypertriglyceridemia exceeding 6,000 mg/dL during her second pregnancy without the development of pancreatitis. DNA sequence analysis was performed as a clinical diagnostic test and outsourced to KUBIX Inc. (Hakusan, Ishikawa, Japan).Laboratory evaluation revealed marked hypertriglyceridemia (1,262 mg/dL) with a type V hyperlipoproteinemia pattern. Serum preheparin LPL mass was markedly reduced, and circulating GPIHBP1 was undetectable. Genetic analysis identified a novel homozygous frameshift mutation in the GPIHBP1 gene (NM_178172.4:c.20del [p.Val7AlafsTer73]), which has not been previously reported in public databases. No pathogenic variants were detected in other LPL-related genes. Acute pancreatitis improved rapidly with fasting and intravenous fluid therapy. Strict dietary fat restriction, followed by the addition of the selective PPARα modulator pemafibrate, successfully maintained TG levels below 500 mg/dL during follow-up.We report an extremely rare case of FCS caused by a novel homozygous mutation in the GPIHBP1 gene, in which pregnancy served as a major trigger for severe hypertriglyceridemia. Early diagnosis and strict lipid control are essential to prevent recurrent pancreatitis in patients with GPIHBP1 deficiency.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42093112 is a review article
Hypertriglyceridemia is an established risk factor for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease and has recently been implicated in abdominal aortic aneurysm pathogenesis. However, its role in thoracic aortic aneurysm and dissection (TAAD) remains undefined.We investigated the impact of hypertriglyceridemia on experimental TAAD using GPIHBP1 (glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored high-density lipoprotein-binding protein 1) knockout mice as a hypertriglyceridemia model. TAAD was induced in 3- to 4-week-old mice via oral β-aminopropionitrile administration for 28 days.Despite progressive hypertriglyceridemia in GPIHBP1 knockout mice during β-aminopropionitrile treatment, no significant differences in TAAD incidence, mortality, or the ratio of affected aortic segments to aortic full length were observed between GPIHBP1 knockout mice and their wild-type littermates. Histopathologic and molecular analyses revealed comparable elastin fragmentation, ECM (extracellular matrix) degradation, vascular smooth muscle cell phenotypic transition, and inflammatory cell infiltration in thoracic aortas of both genotypes. These results remained consistent across sexes and different β-aminopropionitrile dosing regimens.Our findings demonstrate that hypertriglyceridemia does not significantly exacerbate the development or progression of β-aminopropionitrile-induced TAAD in GPIHBP1-deficient mice.
Glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored high-density lipoprotein-binding protein 1 (GPIHBP1) is critical for transporting lipoprotein lipase (LPL) to the capillary lumen, where LPL breaks down triglycerides in triglyceride-rich lipoproteins. We herein report a 12-year-old Chinese girl who presented with severe hypertriglyceridemia and a recent diagnosis of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). She was first noted to have severe hypertriglyceridemia at 8.5 years old, complicated by three episodes of acute pancreatitis within 2 years. Between these episodes, her plasma triglycerides remained elevated, but at lower levels. Next-generation sequencing for primary hypertriglyceridemia yielded no significant findings. Investigations for secondary causes, to include fasting glucose, HbA1c, and thyroid function testing, were unrevealing. Given the fluctuating triglyceride levels and negative genetic testing for primary hypertriglyceridemia in the background of SLE, autoimmune hypertriglyceridemia was suspected. The diagnosis of GPIHBP1 autoantibody syndrome was confirmed by an elevated GPIHBP1 autoantibody titer and a low LPL mass in her serum. Her SLE was well controlled with immunosuppressants and belimumab. Fenofibrate and omega-3 fatty acids, which were initially prescribed for her hypertriglyceridemia, were later discontinued. The GPIHBP1 autoantibody and LPL mass normalized 2 years after diagnosis. This case illustrates hypertriglyceridemia caused by a rare disease entity associated with autoantibodies against the GPIHBP1 protein. This entity is worth considering after excluding genetic and common secondary causes of hypertriglyceridemia, particularly in a patient with a history of autoimmune disease.Copyright © 2026 Sin-ting Tiffany Lai et al. Case Reports in Endocrinology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Hypertriglyceridaemia-induced pancreatitis in pregnancy (HTG-IPP) is a rare but serious condition. There is a paucity of evidence-based guidelines and recommendations for screening and management of HTG-IPP. Individual genomics can predispose certain populations to a higher risk of developing HTG-IPP.To report on a case series of the management of four individual pregnancies complicated by HTG-IPP, subsequently found to be associated with pathogenic genetic variants involved in triglyceride (TG) metabolism.The medical records of four individual pregnancies from two metropolitan hospitals in Australia were reviewed regarding the management of their HTG-IPP and genetic testing for hypertriglyceridaemia (HTG). A literature review of previous cases of HTG-IPP with an identified pathogenic variant was performed.The identified genetic variants resulting in a diagnosis of HTG and HTG-IPP were within glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchored high density lipoprotein binding protein 1 (GPIHBP1), lipoprotein lipase (LPL) and apolipoprotein A5 (APOA-5). All patients had co-morbid gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) and were of South Asian or Asian ethnicity. All four patients were effectively managed with fasting, intravenous insulin, omega-3 fatty acids (O3FAs) and very low-fat diet (VLFD) with supplementation with medium-chain TG (MCT) oil.Further genomics research is needed to increase our understanding for its use in predicting risk of severe gestational HTG. With additional case identification, particular variants of pathogenic interest can be identified and screened for antenatally in patients with a moderate fasting HTG of more than 200 mg/dL (11.1 mmol/L) in the absence of other causative factors. Pre-conception optimisation of TGs and regular monitoring in pregnancy can reduce the incidence and disease burden associated with HTG-IPP and HTG.Copyright © 2026 Christopher Son Nguyen et al. Case Reports in Endocrinology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
[This corrects the article DOI: 10.3389/fcdhc.2025.1682012.].Copyright © 2025 Watanabe, Eguchi, Kurooka, Eto, Masuyama and Wada.
The prevalence of gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is significantly increasing. Hyperglycaemia and dyslipidaemia have been demonstrated to contribute to endothelial dysfunction linked to foetal-placental circulation. Glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored high-density lipoprotein-binding protein 1 (GPIHBP1) is crucial for the lipolytic processing of TG-rich lipoproteins through the anchoring of lipoprotein lipase (LPL). In this study, circulating GPIHBP1 levels during pregnancy were evaluated, and their associations with hypertriglyceridaemia and the perinatal outcomes of GDM were evaluated.This study included 12 pregnant women with GDM and 21 pregnant women with normal glucose tolerance (NGT).No significant differences in obstetrical outcomes were detected between the two groups. In participants with NGT, circulating GPIHBP1 levels were markedly lower in the 3rd trimester than in the 2nd trimester and at delivery. In women with GDM, circulating GPIHBP1 levels were unchanged during the 3rd trimester, and circulating GPIHBP1 levels throughout the 3rd trimester were negatively correlated with neonatal birth weight percentile and umbilical venous pO2 (ρ=-0.636, p=0.026; ρ=-0.657, p=0.020).Our findings suggest a possible association between circulating GPIHBP1 levels and perinatal outcomes in patients with GDM.Copyright © 2025 Watanabe, Eguchi, Kurooka, Eto, Masuyama and Wada.
Familial hypertriglyceridemia (FHTG), a severe subtype of primary hypertriglyceridemia caused by mutations in GPIHBP1 and other related genes, is linked to life-threatening cardiovascular complications. Current therapies inadequately address the underlying genetic pathology. Here, we developed a novel exosome-based mRNA delivery platform to restore functional glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored high-density lipoprotein-binding protein 1 (GPIHBP1) expression, providing a targeted therapeutic strategy for FHTG. Using GPIHBP1-/- mice as disease models, we engineered exosomes (ExoGPIHBP1) encapsulating GPIHBP1 mRNA via an optimized vector. These exosomes exhibited high biostability and preferential liver accumulation after systemic administration, enabling efficient protein translation. Consequently, treatment significantly reduced serum triglyceride (TG) levels, attenuated lipid accumulation, and ameliorated liver steatosis. Our study explores exosome-mediated GPIHBP1 mRNA therapy as a precise, safe, and effective strategy for FHTG, highlighting a considerable translational potential for genetic dyslipidemias. The platform advances RNA-based therapeutics by bridging the gap between gene therapy and clinical applications.
Familial chylomicronemia syndrome (FCS) is a rare monogenic disorder characterized by severe hypertriglyceridemia caused by pathogenic variants in genes involved in triglyceride metabolism. Glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored high-density lipoprotein-binding protein 1 (GPIHBP1) plays a critical role in the lipolytic processing of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins. We present 3 unrelated cases of FCS with a newly identified homozygous complex insertion-deletion variant in GPIHBP1, namely c.460_461delinsAAA, p.Ala154Lysfs*153. All 3 cases presented with severe hypertriglyceridemia, a high FCS clinical score, and significantly reduced lipoprotein lipase (LPL) activity (being 6.6 mUI the value corresponding to 20% of normal activity). These observations expand the spectrum of pathogenic GPIHBP1 variants in FCS. The identification of GPIHBP1 variant reinforces the causal link between GPIHBP1 mutations and LPL deficiency, as evidenced by diminished LPL activity, and further expands the genetic landscape of FCS.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Prominin-1 (CD133) and sortilin are two clinically important biomarkers that have been associated with multiple types of cancer. Designing molecules targeting these biomarkers is highly useful for both detection and targeted treatment of cancer. Current detection strategies for these biomarkers primarily rely on receptor-specific antibodies. However, antibodies have several limitations, including high sensitivity to glycosylation in prominin-1, poor tumor penetration, and limited suitability for a broad range of biomolecular assays. These limitations highlight the need for alternative targeting molecules, such as peptides. This study employs a peptide design approach based on residue-level binding for the rational design of peptides targeting prominin-1 and sortilin. This approach is based on identifying the amino acids with the highest predicted affinities toward the receptor and combining the strongest binding amino acids to create peptide sequences. Initially, candidate peptides with docking scores less than -8 kcal/mol were screened using molecular docking, and the binding stability of these peptides was verified by using molecular dynamics simulations. Preliminary experimental validation via biolayer interferometry indicated that these peptides bind to prominin-1 and sortilin with micromolar-level affinities. While the binding behavior of sortilin-targeting peptides suggested some heterogeneous binding, the overall binding behavior was consistent with micromolar-level affinities. This approach provides a promising method for developing peptide binders targeting critical biomarkers, such as prominin-1 and sortilin.© 2026 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
Epidemiological and biological evidence indicate a close connection between Alzheimer's disease (AD) and type-2 diabetes mellitus. Glucose transporter 1 (GLUT1), encoded by the SLC2A1 gene, has a major role in glucose metabolism, the dysregulation of which has been implicated in both diseases. We conducted a case-control association study in a sample of 439 non-diabetic patients with late-onset AD and 304 cognitively healthy, non-diabetic elderly controls to determine the potential risk for developing AD associated with SLC2A1 rs841847 polymorphism. The rs841847 C/C genotype occurrence was higher in the AD group (AD: 60.4%, controls: 50.7%), while the minor T allele-containing genotypes were more frequent among controls (AD: 39.6%, controls: 49.3%). A multivariate logistic regression model adjusted for age, sex, and apolipoprotein E (APOE) ε4 status (ε4 allele carriers versus non-carriers) demonstrated that carriers of the T allele had a significantly reduced risk for AD compared to C/C homozygotes (OR = 0.672; 95% CI: 0.493-0.916; p = 0.012). Although the rs841847 polymorphism has been linked to type-2 diabetes mellitus, the present study investigated this gene variant in AD for the first time. Our findings indicate a moderate protective effect for the rs841847 T allele on the susceptibility to AD. We demonstrated the rs841847 polymorphism as a candidate single nucleotide polymorphism for further examination as a predisposing genetic factor for AD.
Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are central mediators of tumour-stroma communication, yet the mechanisms governing their biogenesis and functional cargo remain poorly understood. Here, we identify CD133 (Prominin-1), selectively expressed in basal-like triple-negative breast cancer (BL-TNBC) cells, acts as a key organizer of EV production and cargo composition. CD133 localizes to plasma membrane protrusions and lipid rafts, where it maintains membrane architecture, promotes EV release and directs selective cargo loading, including the pro-angiogenic factor CD105. Functionally, CD133+ EVs potently induce endothelial tubulogenesis in a CD105-dependent manner, independently of differences in EV association or endothelial proliferation. In vivo, these EVs preferentially accumulate in the lung and liver, highlighting organ-specific communication. Mechanistically, CD133 maintains lipid raft integrity, facilitating selective CD105 incorporation into vesicles and establishing a spatially coordinated CD133-CD105 axis. Together, our findings define a subtype-specific EV population whose identity and angiogenic activity are dictated by membrane organization. By linking protrusion architecture to vesicle-mediated signalling, this study highlights CD133-enriched EVs as potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets in aggressive BL-TNBC.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Extracellular Vesicles published by Wiley Periodicals, LLC on behalf of the International Society for Extracellular Vesicles.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42193986 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42178909 is a review article
TUB-like protein 1 (TULP1) is a protein expressed in rod and cone photoreceptors, where it is thought to play a role in ciliary transport. Pathogenic variants in TULP1 have been implicated in a number of retinal conditions, including non-syndromic retinitis pigmentosa, early-onset retinitis pigmentosa, Leber congenital amaurosis, cone dystrophy, and cone-rod dystrophy. We present two siblings, in whom biallelic likely pathogenic TULP1 variants manifest as an isolated bull's eye maculopathy in the absence of generalized photoreceptor degeneration.Multimodal assessment included ultra-widefield color fundus photography, fundus autofluorescence imaging, spectral domain optical coherence tomography, and full-field electroretinography. Genetic testing was performed with next-generation sequencing retinal gene panel.We identified a pair of siblings with an isolated bull's eye maculopathy and no functional or anatomic generalized photoreceptor pathology. Genetic testing revealed that each sibling harbored biallelic compound heterozygous likely pathogenic variants in TULP1: c.1376T>C (p.I459T) and c.1471T>C (p.F491L).This report expands the phenotypic spectrum of TULP1-associated pathology to include isolated bull's eye maculopathy. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report of an isolated bull's eye maculopathy associated with a TULP1 molecular diagnosis. Our findings highlight the considerable phenotypic heterogeneity observed in TULP1-related retinal dystrophies.
Fetal mortality significantly impacts reproductive efficiency in sheep, with approximately 30% of fetuses failing to survive until lambing. In multifetal gestation, partial litter loss (PLL) occurs in 28% to 37% of cases. The biochemical composition of allantoic fluid (ALF), which plays a key role in metabolic regulation and fetal waste clearance, has been shown in other species to reflect fetal development and maturity. However, ALF metabolomics in sheep, especially in relation to PLL, remains unexplored. This study investigated late-gestation fetal mortality in multifetal sheep pregnancies by analyzing maternal metabolic status, placental gene expression, and ALF composition to identify potential metabolic compounds associated with PLL. The study was conducted on 25 ewes, of which 14 experienced PLL, and 11 had vital litters (VL). Plasma analysis revealed that VL ewes have higher β-hydroxybutyrate concentrations than PLL ewes, whereas plasma insulin and cortisol levels are higher in PLL ewes. Analysis of gene expression in the placental cotyledon demonstrated increased androgen receptor expression in PLL pregnancies and trends toward elevated solute carrier family 2 member 1, and reduced nuclear receptor subfamily 3 group C member 1 expression. Insulin-like growth factor 2 expression tended to be higher in VL placentas. Allantocentesis was performed on 25 ewes with multifetal pregnancies (11 VL and 14 PLL). ALF samples were collected from 74 fetuses at 140.4 ± 2.0 days in pregnancy, and 41 samples were selected for metabolomic profiling. Using genomic analysis, 25 ALF samples were confidently matched to individual lambs. Untargeted lipidomics of ALF from 14 lambs in PLL (7 born alive vs. 7 stillborn) revealed 24 differentially abundant lipid compounds. Stillborn lambs exhibited lower phosphatidylglycerol (PG) 15:0_20:1, but higher levels of sphingomyelin (SM), lysophosphatidylcholine (LPC), ether-linked phosphatidylethanolamines (PEs), lysophosphatidylethanolamines (LPEs), and monogalactosyldiacylglycerols (MGDGs). Collectively, PLL in multifetal ewe pregnancies is linked to maternal metabolic imbalance, elevated cortisol levels, dysregulated placental gene expression, and altered ALF lipid profiles in stillborn fetuses. Elevated SM and LPC, and lower PG, suggest immature lungs. These molecular and metabolic signatures may provide new insights into the mechanisms underlying PLL in late-gestation multifetal pregnancies.© 2026. The Author(s).
To investigate the genetic defects underlying retinitis pigmentosa (RP) in a Chinese family.A Chinese family with RP was recruited. Whole-exome sequencing was conducted to identify potential pathogenic variants, and Sanger sequencing was used for validation. Segregation analysis was performed among family members, and bioinformatics tools were employed to predict the functional impact of the identified mutations.The proband's primary ocular findings included attenuated arterioles, waxy pallor of the optic disc, peripheral bone-spicule pigmentation, and diffuse choroidal atrophy. Whole-exome sequencing and Sanger sequencing revealed two heterozygous mutations in the USH2A gene: c.8641_8642insTATT (p.Ser2881LeufsX9) and c.10721 G > A (p.Gly3574Asp). The frameshift mutation has been reported previously, while the missense mutation is extremely rare and has not previously been associated with any known phenotype. Functional predictions from multiple bioinformatics tools suggested both mutations are likely pathogenic. Evolutionary conservation analysis indicated that the Ser2881 and Gly3574 residues are highly conserved across species. Although the p.Gly3574Asp mutation did not significantly alter the protein's secondary structure, it introduced changes in charge and hydrophobic interactions.We identified compound heterozygous mutations in USH2A in a Chinese family with RP. Our findings expand the known mutation spectrum of USH2A and contribute to a better understanding of the genetic basis of RP.
Human prominin-1 (PROM1) is broadly expressed across multiple tissues. However, its pathogenic variants cause an exclusive retina-related disorder, PROM1-associated inherited retinal dystrophy (PROM1-IRD). The mechanistic basis underlying this tissue-specific vulnerability remains unclear, and no approved targeted therapy is available. Here, we used urine cells, human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs), hiPSC-retinal pigment epithelial cells, retinal organoids (ROs), and Prom1-/- mice to address these challenges. During photoreceptor differentiation in ROs, PROM1 localized to the apical ciliary compartment and the outer segment (OS)-like structures, co-localizing with ARL13B and PRPH2, and displayed photoreceptor-enriched mRNA splicing isoforms and distinct N-glycosylation patterns. In models derived from an IRD patient harboring a homozygous PROM1 c.619G>T (p.E207×) mutation, PROM1 transcripts underwent both nonsense-mediated mRNA decay and nonsense-associated altered splicing, resulting in complete loss of PROM1 protein and severe disruption of OS-like structures. To restore PROM1 function, a photoreceptor-targeted AAV7m8-CRXp-hPROM1 vector was developed, which efficiently restored PROM1 expression and rescued OS-like structures in patient-derived ROs. In vivo, subretinal delivery of AAV8-CRXp-hPROM1 to Prom1-/- mice produced sustained, photoreceptor-targeted expression of human PROM1, significantly preserving OS morphology and improving visual function. Collectively, these findings implicate a molecular basis for retinal vulnerability to PROM1 variants and provide compelling preclinical evidence supporting adeno-associated-virus-mediated gene augmentation as a therapeutic approach for PROM1-IRD.Copyright © 2026 The American Society of Gene and Cell Therapy. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Pathological USH2A mutations cause Usher syndrome type II, characterized by progressive retinitis pigmentosa and hearing and balance impairment. This study aims to investigate the cellular mechanisms underlying USH2A-related retinal degeneration using human induced pluripotent stem cell (hiPSC)-derived retinal organoids. The introduction of a homozygous nonsense mutation in the USH2A hotspot exon-13 resulted in normal photoreceptor development but loss of ciliary localization of usherin long form B and its interacting proteins, ADGRV1 and whirlin. Notably, single-cell RNA sequencing revealed unexpected significant transcriptional changes in Müller glial cells (MGCs), suggestive of disruptions in the translation, innate immune response, and endolysosomal system. These findings suggest that, while photoreceptor cells are mildly affected by the exon-13 USH2A mutation, MGCs exhibit major transcriptional changes, potentially contributing to the disease progression and therefore shedding light on potential alternative therapeutic targets.
Hereditary hearing loss is frequently linked to hair cell defects, even when the associated genes are expressed in the inner ear and other tissues including the brain. An example of this scenario is the clain-1 gene, associated with progressive loss of hearing in Usher syndrome type IIIA (USH3A). While mouse studies demonstrate that clarin-1 is an essential hair cell gene and early cochlear gene therapy shows promise, a comprehensive understanding of clarin-1's role in the auditory system may lead to better therapeutic and rehabilitation strategies for USH3A. To target future research effectively, we first mapped clarin-1 expression across central auditory system (CAS). We used small molecule fluorescent in situ hybridization (smFISH) to map clarin-1 mRNA expression in the central auditory nuclei of the rat brain. Our data reveal two key findings: clarin-1 mRNA is expressed in the cochlear nucleus (CN), inferior colliculus (IC), medial geniculate body (MG), and auditory cortex (AC). Also, the proportion of cells expressing clarin-1 varies across these regions, with the highest concentration in the IC. These results merit investigation of the role of clarin-1 in the nuclei of the CAS.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Small molecule drugs designed to rescue disorder-specific mutant proteins causative of progressive sensorineural hearing loss need to be delivered regularly. An example is clarin-1 N48K in Usher syndrome type IIIA (USH3A). In these cases, local delivery has significant advantages over systemic delivery. Genetic predisposition to sensorineural hearing loss may mean the invasive (surgical) approach to access the cochlea is detrimental to hearing preservation. Alternatively, delivering drugs near the round and oval window from the middle ear or tympanic cavity via a tympanostomy tube may be a viable option to treat genetic hearing loss. To test the hypothesis in a mouse model, we first must develop a way to routinely deliver the drugs to the tympanic cavity space in mice that is minimally detrimental to hearing and translatable to humans. Limitations of size and other practical considerations preclude implantation of a tympanostomy tube in mice. The goal of this pilot study was to determine feasibility and assess the impact of implanting an injection port in mice. This approach would serve as a surrogate for drug delivery through tympanostomy tubes in humans. We repurposed the Vascular Access Button (Instech Labs, PA) to access the tympanic cavity in mice that mimics hearing loss in USH3A and its wild-type counterpart. The right ear served as the non-surgical control for all mice. At 2- and 4-weeks post-operation, we monitored behavior, physical attributes, balance, and hearing. The implant was generally well-tolerated in mice. Saline injections through the port were tested for two weeks post-operation without issue, and hearing was not significantly affected. Here, we present a fully implantable method in mice for routine drug delivery to the middle ear, with minimal damage or implant-induced hearing loss. This approach could be used to investigate drug therapies in preclinical models of sensorineural hearing loss.Copyright: © 2026 Held et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Usher syndrome type III (USH3) is a genetic disorder characterized by progressive, post-lingual hearing loss, variable vestibular dysfunction, and onset of retinitis pigmentosa. USH3 is caused by mutations in CLRN1, which encodes clarin-1, a tetraspanin-like protein. Mutations in CLRN2, which encodes the related protein clarin-2, are also implicated in progressive, non-syndromic hearing loss in both humans and mice. USH3 patients show considerable phenotypic variability, even among individuals with the same mutation. This variability may result from environmental factors or interactions with other inner ear genes, such as CLRN2. To investigate the functional interplay of these genes, we generated Clrn1-/-Clrn2-/- double knockout mice. RNA-sequencing and functional/physiological analyses revealed that clarin-1 and clarin-2 jointly regulate mechanoelectrical transduction, ionic homeostasis, and synaptic organization. Their combined loss leads to more severe hearing phenotype compared to Clrn1-/- and Clrn2-/- mice, which reveals a functional compensation between them. CLRN2 variants may exacerbate hearing loss in USH3 patients, supporting inclusion of CLRN2 in genetic screening. By revealing a functional, compensatory interplay between clarin-1 and clarin-2, this study reframes CLRN1-associated deafness as a network-dependent disorder and provides a mechanistic basis for genetic stratification and therapeutic directions in USH3 and related sensorineural hearing loss.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
The reasons behind the high prevalence of poorly differentiated gastric cancer in young females remain unclear. Therefore, this study aimed to conduct a comprehensive genetic analysis to investigate the factors responsible for the high prevalence of poorly differentiated gastric cancer in young females.We analyzed 299 patients who underwent gastric cancer surgery at the Gunma University Hospital between April 2015 and December 2020. Among them, we selected cases of poorly differentiated gastric cancer in females, differentiated gastric cancer in females, and poorly differentiated gastric cancer in males, aged 30-50 years. Three eligible cases of each condition were found and included in the study. RNA was isolated from dissected formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue samples, followed by RNA sequencing. The results were analyzed using ingenuity pathway analysis to elucidate the mechanisms contributing to the high incidence of poorly differentiated gastric cancer in young females.Dexamethasone, β-estradiol, and interleukin-1β were identified as significant upstream regulators associated with poorly differentiated gastric cancer in young females. The downstream target genes of β-estradiol included male germ cell-associated kinase, growth differentiation factor 6, endothelin 2, and collagen type XI alpha 1 chain.Our detailed RNA-seq analysis revealed that the female sex hormone, β-estradiol, plays a role in the development of poorly differentiated gastric cancer in young females.© 2025 The Author(s). Annals of Gastroenterological Surgery published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of The Japanese Society of Gastroenterological Surgery.
To compare the clinical characteristics of inherited retinal diseases (IRDs) caused by biallelic versus monoallelic variants in the RP1, BEST1, and PROM1 genes. A total of 52 patients (26 female) with genetically confirmed IRDs were retrospectively selected from the records of the Harkness Eye Institute Clinical Coordinating Center at Columbia University Irving Medical Center. In RP1, 3 individuals with biallelic variants and 22 patients with monoallelic variants classified as pathogenic or likely pathogenic were selected. In BEST1, eight individuals with biallelic variants and nine individuals with monoallelic variants classified as either pathogenic or likely pathogenic were included. In PROM1, four individuals with biallelic variants and six patients with monoallelic variants classified as pathogenic or likely pathogenic were selected. All patients underwent multimodal retinal imaging and, when available, full-field electroretinography (ffERG). In all three genes, individuals with biallelic variants had markedly earlier disease onset and more severe phenotypes. In RP1, on SD-OCT, foveal involvement was observed in all biallelic cases (3/3, 100%) and in 4/22 (18%) monoallelic cases. In BEST1, the average age of onset in the biallelic cohort was 7.12 years, and the average age was 32.7 years in the monoallelic cohort. Four of eight (50%) patients in the biallelic group were additionally found to have widespread serous lesions outside of the central macula. This finding was not observed in the monoallelic group. Three of eight (38%) biallelic BEST1 patients had moderate reductions in their photopic flicker. All monoallelic BEST1 patients had photopic responses within the normal range. PROM1 biallelic cases showed severe functional impairment on ffERG, while most monoallelic cases retained normal responses. In the biallelic cohort, four of four (100%) of patients had severely attenuated or extinguished photopic responses. In the monoallelic PROM1 group, four of five (80%) monoallelic PROM1 patients had normal photopic responses, and P2-2 had mildly attenuated photopic responses. Individuals with biallelic variants exhibited earlier disease onset, more severe retinal degeneration, and significantly reduced retinal function compared with those with monoallelic variants. These observations highlight the role of loss-of-function mechanisms in more aggressive disease courses and underscore the importance of considering zygosity when determining prognosis and planning gene-based therapies.
Vertebrate photoreceptors are highly specialized retinal neurons that have cilium-derived membrane organelles called outer segments, which function as platforms for phototransduction. Male germ cell-associated kinase (MAK) is a cilium-associated serine/threonine kinase, and its genetic mutation causes photoreceptor degeneration in mice and retinitis pigmentosa in humans. However, the role of MAK in photoreceptors is not fully understood. Here, we report that zebrafish mak mutants show rapid photoreceptor degeneration during embryonic development. In mak mutants, both cone and rod photoreceptors completely lacked outer segments and underwent apoptosis. Interestingly, zebrafish mak mutants failed to generate axonemes during photoreceptor ciliogenesis, whereas basal bodies were specified. These data suggest that Mak contributes to axoneme development in zebrafish, in contrast to mouse Mak mutants, which have elongated photoreceptor axonemes. Furthermore, the kinase activity of Mak was found to be critical in ciliary axoneme development and photoreceptor survival. Thus, Mak is required for ciliogenesis and outer segment formation in zebrafish photoreceptors to ensure intracellular protein transport and photoreceptor survival.© 2024. Published by The Company of Biologists Ltd.
In humans, ciliary dysfunction causes ciliopathies, which present as multiple organ defects, including developmental and sensory abnormalities. Sdccag8 is a centrosomal/basal body protein essential for proper cilia formation. Gene mutations in SDCCAG8 have been found in patients with ciliopathies manifesting a broad spectrum of symptoms, including hypogonadism. Among these mutations, several that are predicted to truncate the SDCCAG8 carboxyl (C) terminus are also associated with such symptoms; however, the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. In the present study, we identified the Sdccag8 C-terminal region (Sdccag8-C) as a module that interacts with the ciliopathy proteins, Ick/Cilk1 and Mak, which were shown to be essential for the regulation of ciliary protein trafficking and cilia length in mammals in our previous studies. We found that Sdccag8-C is essential for Sdccag8 localization to centrosomes and cilia formation in cultured cells. We then generated a mouse mutant in which Sdccag8-C was truncated (Sdccag8ΔC/ΔC mice) using a CRISPR-mediated stop codon knock-in strategy. In Sdccag8ΔC/ΔC mice, we observed abnormalities in cilia formation and ciliopathy-like organ phenotypes, including cleft palate, polydactyly, retinal degeneration, and cystic kidney, which partially overlapped with those previously observed in Ick- and Mak-deficient mice. Furthermore, Sdccag8ΔC/ΔC mice exhibited a defect in spermatogenesis, which was a previously uncharacterized phenotype of Sdccag8 dysfunction. Together, these results shed light on the molecular and pathological mechanisms underlying ciliopathies observed in patients with SDCCAG8 mutations and may advance our understanding of protein-protein interaction networks involved in cilia development.Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Ovarian cancer exhibits high molecular heterogeneity and metastatic potential, contributing to its status as a leading cause of gynecologic cancer mortality. Cell polarity is essential in tumorigenesis, yet the role of Crumbs family proteins (CRBs), key regulators of apical-basal polarity, in epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) remains unclear. In this study, we analysed CRB expression profiles using TCGA and GEO datasets, and validated our findings through immunohistochemical staining of ovarian tumour tissue microarrays. Among CRBs, CRB2 was significantly overexpressed in EOC tissues and correlated with poor patient prognosis. Functional assays revealed that CRB2 enhances ovarian cancer cell proliferation, migration, and invasion, while suppressing apoptosis. Immunofluorescence staining of planar cell polarity markers demonstrated that CRB2 induces polarity alterations in EOC cells. Furthermore, Western blot analysis suggested that CRB2 may activate the Wnt/planar cell polarity (PCP) signalling pathway, contributing to tumour progression. These findings identify CRB2 as a key modulator of cell polarity and a potential driver of EOC aggressiveness. CRB2 may serve as a novel prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target for epithelial ovarian cancer.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) is the most common type of kidney cancer, with existing therapies largely ineffective for advanced stages. Ankyrin 3 (ANK3), a protein involved in various cellular processes, has been associated with poor prognosis and immune infiltration in ccRCC. However, its role in ccRCC development and progression remains poorly understood. In the present study, ANK3-knockdown 786-O cells were generated using a shRNA approach. Cellular assays revealed that ANK3 knockdown significantly enhanced cell proliferation, migration, and invasion compared to shControl cells. ANK3-knockdown cells also displayed increased nuclear size and accumulation of G2/M phase of the cell cycle. Proteomic analysis identified 59 significantly altered proteins in ANK3-knockdown cells, primarily involved in cell adhesion and structural integrity. Among these, 10 proteins were significantly associated with overall survival in ccRCC patients. Morphological analysis showed that ANK3-knockdown cells exhibited a more spindle-like shape and increased cellular protrusions (filopodia). Western blot analysis further demonstrated altered expression levels of junctional and cytoskeleton proteins, including decreased E-cadherin and increased ZO-1, ICAM-1, vimentin, and β-actin. Immunofluorescence analysis revealed the accumulation of F-actin in the cytoplasm and filopodia in ANK3-knockdown cells. Additionally, ANK3 knockdown enhanced cell adhesion and aggregation capabilities. Finally, a decrease in ANK3 expression was confirmed in ccRCC tissues (grades I and II) compared to adjacent normal tissues. These findings suggest that ANK3 acts as a potential modulator of cell adhesion and cytoskeleton remodeling in ccRCC and may represent a promising therapeutic target for this malignancy.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
To report a case of paraneoplastic motor neuron disease (MND) with a favorable outcome after cancer treatment.Clinical, electrophysiologic, radiologic, and serum/CSF study of a patient with brachial amyotrophic diplegia/flail-arm syndrome (BAS/FAS).A 68-year-old man presented with a subacute-onset upper limb weakness and atrophy evocative of BAD/FAS. Electrodiagnostic study (EDX) confirmed MND; CSF examination found oligoclonal bands and elevated neurofilament light chains (NfL). A prostate adenocarcinoma was concomitantly diagnosed in a context of dysuria and elevated prostate-specific antigen level. One month after onset of cancer treatment (double hormonotherapy), the patient's impairment started to improve. Subsequently, the muscle denervation signs on EDX disappeared and CSF NfL levels decreased. At last follow-up visit, 2 years after onset, he was asymptomatic and unimpaired. Anti-ankyrin-3 (Ank3) autoantibodies were detected in the CSF by tissue-based immunofluorescence and confirmed by cell-based assay.We herein describe an original case of subacute-onset BAD/FAS with evidence of CSF inflammatory changes, autoantibodies of unknown significance, and simultaneous diagnosis of prostate cancer suggesting a possible paraneoplastic neurological syndrome (PNS). The outcome was remarkably favorable after hormonotherapy. Even in the absence of usual onconeural antibodies, MND may be encountered among PNS, and their prognosis is not always poor.
Liver fibrosis (LF) poses significant challenges in diagnosis and treatment. This study aimed to identify effective biomarkers for diagnosis and therapy, as well as to gain deeper insights into the immunological features associated with LF. LF-related datasets were retrieved from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. Two datasets were merged to generate a metadata cohort for bioinformatics analysis and machine learning, while another dataset was reserved for external validation. Seventy-eight machine learning algorithms were employed to screen signature genes. The diagnostic performance of these genes was evaluated using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves, and their expression levels were validated via qRT-PCR experiments. The R language was utilized to delineate the immune landscape. Finally, correlation analysis was conducted to investigate the relationship between the signature genes and immune infiltration. Through the intersection of GEO datasets and Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis (WGCNA), 42 genes were identified. Machine learning methods further narrowed down 13 signature genes (alpha-2-macroglobulin (A2M), ankyrin-3 (ANK3), complement component 7 (C7), cadherin 6 (CDH6), cysteine-rich motor neuron protein 1 (CRIM1), dihydropyrimidinase-like 3 (DPYSL3), F3, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptor subunit epsilon (GABRE), membrane metalloendopeptidase (MME), solute carrier family 38 member 1 (SLC38A1), tropomyosin alpha-1 chain (TPM1), von Willebrand factor (VWF), and zinc finger protein 83 (ZNF83)), and qRT-PCR confirmed these genes' expression patterns. Furthermore, these signature genes demonstrated strong correlations with multiple immune cell populations. In conclusion, the 13 genes (A2M, ANK3, C7, CDH6, CRIM1, DPYSL3, F3, GABRE, MME, SLC38A1, TPM1, VWF, and ZNF83) represent robust potential biomarkers for the diagnosis and treatment of LF. Among these genes, we first identified Gabre as related to LF and expressed in hepatocytes and cholangiocytes. The immune response mediated by these signature biomarkers plays a pivotal role in the pathogenesis and progression of LF through dynamic interactions between the biomarkers and immune-infiltrating cells.
Congenital nephrotic syndrome (CNS) is a rare disorder caused by mutations in genes essential for podocyte function and glomerular slit diaphragm integrity, including CRB2 (Crumbs Cell Polarity Complex Component 2). CRB2 mutations are linked to focal segmental glomerulosclerosis and ventriculomegaly with cystic kidney disease, but their full phenotypic spectrum remains unclear. We describe the clinical course of monozygotic twins with a homozygous CRB2 mutation, highlighting severe complications following kidney transplantation.The twins, who were followed and managed throughout their clinical course, were diagnosed with CNS after prenatal suspicion of polycystic kidney disease. Initial exome sequencing was negative, but subsequent whole exome sequencing revealed a homozygous CRB2 variant.Both twins presented with CNS, requiring intensive supportive care. Additional findings included cerebral heterotopia, cardiac involvement, and developmental delay. They both progressed to kidney failure, necessitating hemodialysis in early childhood. Post-transplant, the first twin succumbed to a systemic fungal infection, while the second developed complications linked to immune dysregulation, including post-transplant lymphoproliferative disease (PTLD), immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP), multiple viremias, and de novo donor-specific antibodies (DSA).This case expands the phenotypic spectrum of CRB2-related disease, highlights management challenges, and underscores the need for genetic re-analysis in rare diseases. Further research is required to understand CRB2-related mechanisms.© 2025. The Author(s).
Myocyte enhancer factor 2A (MEF2A) is a transcription factor that plays a critical role in cell proliferation, differentiation and apoptosis. In contrast to the wide characterization of its regulation mechanism in mammalian skeletal muscle, its role in chickens is limited. Especially, its wide target genes remain to be identified. Therefore, we utilized Cleavage Under Targets and Tagmentation (CUT&Tag) technology to reveal the genome-wide binding profile of MEF2A in chicken primary myoblasts thus gaining insights into its potential role in muscle development. Our results revealed that MEF2A binding sites were primarily distributed in intergenic and intronic regions. Within the promoter region, although only 8.87% of MEF2A binding sites were found, these binding sites were concentrated around the transcription start site (TSS). Following peak annotation, a total of 1903 genes were identified as potential targets of MEF2A. Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment analysis further revealed that MEF2A target genes may be involved in the regulation of embryonic development in multiple organ systems, including muscle development, gland development, and visual system development. Moreover, a comparison of the MEF2A target genes identified in chicken primary myoblasts with those in mouse C2C12 cells revealed 388 target genes are conserved across species, 1515 target genes are chicken specific. Among these conserved genes, ankyrin repeat and SOCS box containing 5 (ASB5), transmembrane protein 182 (TMEM182), myomesin 2 (MYOM2), leucyl and cystinyl aminopeptidase (LNPEP), actinin alpha 2 (ACTN2), sorbin and SH3 domain containing 1 (SORBS1), ankyrin 3 (ANK3), sarcoglycan delta (SGCD), and ORAI calcium release-activated calcium modulator 1 (ORAI1) exhibited consistent expression patterns with MEF2A during embryonic muscle development. Finally, TMEM182, as an important negative regulator of muscle development, has been validated to be regulated by MEF2A by dual-luciferase and quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) assays. In summary, our study for the first time provides a wide landscape of MEF2A target genes in chicken primary myoblasts, which supports the active role of MEF2A in chicken muscle development.Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Cancer is a common cause of death around the world. Immunotherapy plays a significant role in cancer treatment but still has limitations. The ankyrin-3 (ANK3) gene has been shown to have a variety of biological roles and has also been shown to be closely linked to individual cancers.We systematically investigated the role of ANK3 in pan-cancer, particularly in relation to immunity. We collected data from a number of databases, including the The University of ALabama at Birmingham CANcer data analysis Portal (UALCAN), tumor-immune system interactions (TISIDB), cBioPortal, Tumor Immune Estimation Resource (TIMER), Search Tool for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes/Proteins (STRING), BioGRID, and SangerBox databases. R (version 3.6.3) was used for the statistical analysis and data visualization. The expression of ANK3 in tumors and its effects on patient prognosis, immune infiltration, neoantigens, the microenvironment, immune checkpoints (ICs), the tumor mutation burden, microsatellite instability (MSI), methylation, mismatch repair (MMR) genes, and cancer-associated fibroblasts were investigated. A gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) was also conducted.The ANK3 gene was differentially expressed at the messenger RNA (mRNA) and protein levels in various human tumors. The prognosis of patients with different types of malignancies was correlated with the level of ANK3 expression. The immunological microenvironment was also linked to ANK3 expression, especially in colon adenocarcinoma (COAD), kidney renal clear cell carcinoma (KIRC), and liver hepatocellular carcinoma (LIHC). ANK3 was also associated with ICs, immune neoantigens, MSI, the tumor mutation load, MMR genes, and DNA methylation. Finally, we found the key pathway related to the ANK3 gene through the enrichment analysis.ANK3 could serve as a new biomarker specific to prognosis and immunotherapy in various cancers. Our findings could contribute to the development of novel strategies for treating malignancies.2024 Translational Cancer Research. All rights reserved.
Circular RNAs are highly enriched in the synapses of the mammalian brain and play important roles in neurological function by acting as molecular sponges of microRNAs. circAnk3 is derived from the 11th intron of the ankyrin-3 gene, Ank3, a strong genetic risk factor for neuropsychiatric disorders; however, the function of circAnk3 remains elusive. In this study, we investigated the function of circAnk3 and its downstream regulatory network for target genes in the hippocampus of mice.The DNA sequence from which circAnk3 is generated was modified using CRISPR/Cas9 (clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats/Cas9) technology, and neurobehavioral tests (anxiety and depression-like behaviors, social behaviors) were performed in circAnk3+/- mice. A series of molecular and biochemical assays were used to investigate the function of circAnk3 as a microRNA sponge and its downstream regulatory network for target genes.circAnk3+/- mice exhibited both anxiety-like behaviors and social deficits. circAnk3 was predominantly located in the cytoplasm of neuronal cells and functioned as a miR-7080-3p sponge to regulate the expression of Iqgap1. Inhibition of miR-7080-3p or restoration of Iqgap1 in the hippocampus ameliorated the behavioral deficits of circAnk3+/- mice. Furthermore, circAnk3 deficiency decreased the expression of the NMDA receptor subunit GluN2a and impaired the structural plasticity of dendritic synapses in the hippocampus.Our results reveal an important role of the circAnk3/miR-7080-3p/IQGAP1 axis in maintaining the structural plasticity of hippocampal synapses. circAnk3 might offer new insights into the involvement of circular RNAs in neuropsychiatric disorders.Copyright © 2023 Society of Biological Psychiatry. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Cardiac ventricles provide the contractile force of the beating heart throughout life. How the primitive endocardium-layered myocardial projections called trabeculae form and mature into the adult ventricles is of great interest for biology and regenerative medicine. Trabeculation is dependent on the signaling protein Nrg1 (neuregulin-1). However, the mechanism of action of Nrg1 and its role in ventricular wall maturation are poorly understood.We investigated the functions and downstream mechanisms of Nrg1 signaling during ventricular chamber development using confocal imaging, transcriptomics, and biochemical approaches in mice with cardiac-specific inactivation or overexpression of Nrg1.Analysis of cardiac-specific Nrg1 mutant mice showed that the transcriptional program underlying cardiomyocyte-oriented cell division and trabeculae formation depends on endocardial Nrg1 to myocardial ErbB2 (erb-b2 receptor tyrosine kinase 2) signaling and phospho-Erk (phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase; pErk) activation. Early endothelial loss of Nrg1 and reduced pErk activation diminished cardiomyocyte Pard3 and Crumbs2 (Crumbs Cell Polarity Complex Component 2) protein and altered cytoskeletal gene expression and organization. These alterations are associated with abnormal gene expression related to mitotic spindle organization and a shift in cardiomyocyte division orientation. Nrg1 is crucial for trabecular growth and ventricular wall thickening by regulating an epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition-like process in cardiomyocytes involving migration, adhesion, cytoskeletal actin turnover, and timely progression through the cell cycle G2/M phase. Ectopic cardiac Nrg1 overexpression and high pErk signaling caused S-phase arrest, sustained high epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition-like gene expression, and prolonged trabeculation, blocking compact myocardium maturation. Myocardial trabecular patterning alterations resulting from above- or below-normal Nrg1-dependent pErk activation were concomitant with sarcomere actin cytoskeleton disorganization. The Nrg1 loss- and gain-of-function transcriptomes were enriched for Yap1 (yes-associated protein-1) gene signatures, identifying Yap1 as a potential downstream effector. Furthermore, biochemical and imaging data reveal that Nrg1 influences pErk activation and Yap1 nuclear-cytoplasmic distribution during trabeculation.These data establish the Nrg1-ErbB2/ErbB4-Erk axis as a crucial regulator of cardiomyocyte cell cycle progression and migration during ventricular development.
Kidney renal clear cell carcinoma (KIRC) is one of the most aggressive cancer type of the urinary system. Metastatic KIRC patients have poor prognosis and limited therapeutic options. Ankyrin 3 (ANK3) is a scaffold protein that plays important roles in maintaining physiological function of the kidney and its alteration is implicated in many cancers. In this study, we investigated differential expression of ANK3 in KIRC using GEPIA2, UALCAN, and HPA databases. Survival analysis was performed by GEPIA2, Kaplan-Meier plotter, and OSkirc databases. Genetic alterations of ANK3 in KIRC were assessed using cBioPortal database. Interaction network and functional enrichment analyses of ANK3-correlated genes in KIRC were performed using GeneMANIA and Shiny GO, respectively. Finally, the TIMER2.0 database was used to assess correlation between ANK3 expression and immune infiltration in KIRC. We found that ANK3 expression was significantly decreased in KIRC compared to normal tissues. The KIRC patients with low ANK3 expression had poorer survival outcomes than those with high ANK3 expression. ANK3 mutations were found in 2.4% of KIRC patients and were frequently co-mutated with several genes with a prognostic significance. ANK3-correlated genes were significantly enriched in various biological processes, mainly involved in peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) signaling pathway, in which positive correlations of ANK3 with PPARA and PPARG expressions were confirmed. Expression of ANK3 in KIRC was significantly correlated with infiltration level of B cell, CD8+ T cell, macrophage, and neutrophil. These findings suggested that ANK3 could serve as a prognostic biomarker and promising therapeutic target for KIRC.
To analyse the symptoms of Bardet-Biedl Syndrome, and to check the association of BBS10 (Bardet-Biedl syndrome 10 gene), BBS6 (Bardet-Biedl syndrome 6 gene) and BBS12 (Bardet-Biedl syndrome 12 gene) with the pathogenesis of Bardet-Biedl Syndrome.The case-control study was conducted in Karachi in 2019-20, and comprised Bardet-Biedl Syndrome patients and healthy controls from the same family. Blood was drawn from all the subjects for deoxyribonucleic acid extraction. Genotyping was performed by conventional and tetra primer amplification refractory mutation system polymerase chain reaction (T-ARMS-PCR) to identify the possible genetic variations. To validate the results, samples were randomly selected and sent for sequencing. Data was analysed using SPSS 20, while sequencing data was analysed using the Molecular Evolutionary Genetics Analysis X software.Of the 20 subjects with mean age 15.8+/-5.09 years (range: 9-25 years), 8(40%) were cases and 12(60%) were controls. The male-to-female ratio was 1:1. Pedigree analysis revealed that the pattern of inheritance was autosomal recessive. All the 8(100%) cases were obese compared to the controls. Truncal obesity, polydactyly, learning impairment and dysmorphic features, renal pain, olfactory dysfunction, respiratory tract infection and dysphasia were observed in all the 8(100%) cases. The globally reported genetic variants of BBS10 (rs1057516628 and rs1489342987) and BBS12 (rs121918327 and rs587777802) did not indicate any association with the clinical phenotype in the family concerned. The genetic variations of BBS6 (rs1547, rs1545 and rs1351192494), BBS12 (rs309370, rs2292493) and a BBS10 variant (rs35676114) had significant association with the disease.The genetic variations showed confounding effects of BBS10, BBS6 and BBS12 genes which might indicate the epistatic effects of other variants present on different loci.
The DNA damage-regulated autophagy modulators have been identified as key activators of autophagy, an emerging mechanism to combat viral infections. In this study, we cloned and characterized the DNA damage-regulated autophagy modulator 2 homolog from the shrimp Penaeus vannamei (designated as PvDRAM2) and investigated its potential roles during white spot syndrome virus (WSSV) infection. The predicted three-dimensional structure of PvDRAM2 consists of six β-fold regions, which exhibit conservation with similar structures in other species. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that the clusters of PvDRAM2 evolved alongside invertebrate DRAMs, showing a close relationship with DRAMs from Penaeus japonicus and Homarus americanus. Quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) analysis indicated that PvDRAM2 is ubiquitously expressed across various shrimp tissues, with significantly increased expression levels in hemocytes and intestines following WSSV challenge. RNA interference (RNAi)-mediated knockdown of PvDRAM2 notably elevated WSSV loads and reduced survival rates in shrimps subjected to WSSV challenge. Functionally, the overexpression of PvDRAM2 enhanced autophagy in High Five cells. Additionally, the application of autophagy activators demonstrated that activating autophagy could counteract the increased WSSV replication precipitated by the knockdown of PvDRAM2. Collectively, our findings suggest that PvDRAM2 may inhibit WSSV infection by activating autophagy.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Understanding the genetic basis of resilience in marine organisms is critical for conservation and management, particularly in the face of escalating environmental stress and disease outbreaks. The bay scallop Argopecten irradians is a commercially and recreationally important shellfish species found in estuarine and coastal environments of the United States from New England to the Gulf of Mexico. In New York, adult bay scallop populations have been decimated every summer since 2019 leading to the collapse of their fishery. These mortality events were associated with annual outbreaks of an undescribed apicomplexan parasite recently named Bay Scallop Marosporida (BSM) that disrupts scallop kidneys.This study investigates host-pathogen interactions and assesses changes in population structure during BSM-associated mortality events. The research compared wild and aquacultured scallops used for stock enhancement in New York, revealing significant change in population structures throughout the mortality outbreak. The results underscore the selective pressures exerted by BSM infection and environmental stressors, as evidenced by shifts in genetic divergence and allele frequencies particularly in genes associated with kidney function, stress and infection response. Through a detailed genomic and population genetic approach, this research represents a unique case study highlighting the impact of disease on marine biodiversity and advances our understanding of the impact of summer mortality events on the scallop population in NY.This study highlights changes in the genomic structure of bay scallops during a BSM-associated mortality event. Identified mutations (such as the one in the nephrocystin-3-like gene) represent prime candidates for specific targeted investigations to link genotypes to phenotypes. By integrating genomic and epidemiological data, the research provides a basis for understanding the impact of disease on scallop biodiversity. These findings may help guide conservation strategies for sustainable fisheries in the face of environmental change and disease outbreaks.© 2025. The Author(s).
Ginsenoside Rb2, a major active component of Panax ginseng, has various physiological activities, including anticancer and anti-inflammatory effects. However, the mechanisms underlying the rejuvenation effect of Rb2 in human skin cells have not been elucidated.We performed a senescence-associated β-galactosidase staining assay to confirm cellular senescence in human dermal fibroblasts (HDFs). The regulatory effects of Rb2 on autophagy were evaluated by analyzing the expression of autophagy marker proteins, such as microtubule-associated protein 1A/1B-light chain (LC) 3 and p62, using immunoblotting. Autophagosome and autolysosome formation was monitored using transmission electron microscopy. Autophagic flux was analyzed using tandem-labeled GFP-RFP-LC3, and lysosomal function was assessed with Lysotracker. We performed RNA sequencing to identify potential target genes related to HDF rejuvenation mediated by Rb2. To verify the functions of the target genes, we silenced them using shRNAs.Rb2 decreased β-galactosidase activity and altered the expression of cell cycle regulatory proteins in senescent HDFs. Rb2 markedly induced the conversion of LC3-Ⅰ to LC3-Ⅱ and LC3 puncta. Moreover, Rb2 increased lysosomal function and red puncta in tandem-labeled GFP-RFP-LC3, which indicate that Rb2 promoted autophagic flux. RNA sequencing data showed that the expression of DNA damage-regulated autophagy modulator 2 (DRAM2) was induced by Rb2. In autophagy signaling, Rb2 activated the AMPK-ULK1 pathway and inactivated mTOR. DRAM2 knockdown inhibited autophagy and Rb2-restored cellular senescence.Rb2 reverses cellular senescence by activating autophagy via the AMPK-mTOR pathway and induction of DRAM2, suggesting that Rb2 might have potential value as an antiaging agent.© 2022 The Korean Society of Ginseng. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V.
Dynein light chain LC8 is a small dimeric hub protein that recognizes its partners through short linear motifs and is commonly assumed to drive their dimerization. It has more than 100 known binding partners involved in a wide range of cellular processes. Recent large-scale interaction studies suggested that LC8 could also play a role in the ciliary/centrosome system. However, the cellular function of LC8 in this system remains elusive. In this work, we characterized the interaction of LC8 with the centrosomal protein lebercilin (LCA5), which is associated with a specific form of ciliopathy. We showed that LCA5 binds LC8 through two linear motifs. In contrast to the commonly accepted model, LCA5 forms dimers through extensive coiled coil formation in a LC8-independent manner. However, LC8 enhances the oligomerization ability of LCA5 that requires a finely balanced interplay of coiled coil segments and both binding motifs. Based on our results, we propose that LC8 acts as an oligomerization engine that is responsible for the higher order oligomer formation of LCA5. As LCA5 shares several common features with other centrosomal proteins, the presented LC8 driven oligomerization could be widespread among centrosomal proteins, highlighting an important novel cellular function of LC8.© 2022. The Author(s).
Cilia are organelles for cellular signalling and motility. Mutations affecting ciliary function are also associated with cilia-related disorders (ciliopathies). The identification of cilia markers is critical for studying their function at the cellular level. Due to the lack of a conserved, short ciliary localization motif, the full-length ARL13b or 5HT6 proteins are normally used for cilia labelling. Overexpression of these genes, however, can affect the function of cilia, leading to artefacts in cilia studies. Here, we show that Nephrocystin-3 (Nphp3) is highly conserved among vertebrates and demonstrate that the N-terminal truncated peptide of zebrafish Nphp3 can be used as a gratuitous cilia-specific marker. To visualize the dynamics of cilia in vivo, we generated a stable transgenic zebrafish Tg (β-actin: nphp3N-mCherry)sx1001. The cilia in multiple cell types are efficiently labelled by the encoded fusion protein from embryonic stages to adulthood, without any developmental and physiological defects. We show that the line allows live imaging of ciliary dynamics and trafficking of cilia proteins, such as Kif7 and Smo, key regulators of the Hedgehog signalling pathway. Thus, we have generated an effective new tool for in vivo cilia studies that will help shed further light on the roles of these important organelles.
Pathogenic variants in DNA-damage regulated autophagy modulator 2 gene (DRAM2) cause a rare autosomal recessive retinal dystrophy and its disease course is not well understood. We present two Slovenian patients harboring a novel DRAM2 variant and a detailed review of all 23 other patients described to date. Whole exome and whole genome sequencing were performed in the two patients, and both underwent ophthalmological examination with a 2-year follow-up. PubMed was searched for papers with clinical descriptions of DRAM2 retinopathy. Patient 1 was homozygous for a novel variant, p.Met1?, and presented with the acute onset of photopsia and retina-wide retinopathy at the age of 35 years. The patient was first thought to have an autoimmune retinopathy and was treated with mycophenolate mofetil, which provided some symptomatic relief. Patient 2 was compound heterozygous for p.Met1? and p.Leu246Pro and presented with late-onset maculopathy at the age of 59 years. On review, patients with DRAM2 retinopathy usually present in the third decade with central visual loss, outer retinal layer loss on optical coherence tomography and a hyperautofluorescent ring on fundus autofluorescence. Either cone-rod or rod-cone dystrophy phenotype is observed on electroretinography, reflecting the importance of DRAM2 in both photoreceptor types. Non-null variants can result in milder disease.
Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is an inherited retinal degeneration that progresses from rod to cone degeneration. Several gene-independent adeno-associated virus (AAV)-based strategies have revealed a partial restauration of RP using AAV vectors coding for either rod-derived cone viability factor (RdCVF) or its long form (RdCVFL). The nucleoredoxin-like 1 gene (NXNL1) encodes two proteins, the short isoform RdCVF and the long isoform (RdCVFL). RdCVF acts by stimulating aerobic glycolysis to sustain cone outer segment renewal, and RdCVFL is thought to modulate oxidative stress. In prior studies, we analyzed the structural and functional effect of each isoform delivered independently through co-injection of two vectors carrying each. Here, we aimed to maintain visual function by performing a unilateral subretinal injection of a single AAV vector encoding both human isoforms, hRdCVF and hRdCVFL, in an RP mouse model.The therapeutic effect of AAV-hRdCVF/hRdCVFL versus AAV-hRdCVF was evaluated using a visual function test on rd10 mice followed by automated cone counting and measurement of lipid peroxidation.A significant visual preservation using AAV-hRdCVF/hRdCVFL versus AAV-hRdCVF was observed from 28 days post-injection, as shown by delayed visual loss, increased cone density, and reduced lipid peroxidation.This study revealed that both proteins encoded by NXNL1 are essential for gene-independent RP treatment and that combining RdCVF and RdCVFL delivery with a single AAV vector yields a more substantial photoreceptor-protective effect. This functional proof of concept supports the ongoing gene therapy phase 1/2 trial Promising ROd-cone DYstrophy Gene therapY (PRODYGY, NCT05748873).
The protein products of the nucleoredoxin-like 1 (Nxnl1) gene have been proposed for their potential therapeutic benefit in retinitis pigmentosa (RP). Nxnl1 encodes two isoforms: rod-derived viability factor (RdCVF), which supports cone photoreceptor survival, and RdCVFL, which mitigates oxidative stress. Similarly, Nxnl2, a paralog of Nxnl1, encodes RdCVF2 and RdCVF2L, which also have photoreceptor protective properties. This study aimed to investigate whether the simultaneous disruption of Nxnl1 and Nxnl2 results in a more severe retinal phenotype on photoreceptor status compared to the disruption of either gene individually.Double Nxnl1-/-Nxnl2-/- mice were generated, and their retinal phenotype was compared to Nxnl1-/-, Nxnl2-/-, and Nxnl1+/+Nxnl2+/+ mice using spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT), fundus imaging, electroretinography (ERG), and immunofluorescence for retinal structure and cone density assessment.In Nxnl1-/-Nxnl2-/- mice, SD-OCT revealed a significant reduction in outer nuclear layer (ONL) thickness at 3, 6, and 12 months of age. Rod dysfunction was observed at all ages with a significant decrease in both a- and b-wave amplitudes of the scotopic ERG. Although photopic single-flash and flicker ERGs remained normal, cone density was significantly reduced at 12.5 months of age. Additionally, retinal immunostaining confirmed impairments in both rod and cone photoreceptors.Nxnl1-/-Nxnl2-/- mice showed more severe structural and functional retinal deficits compared to the other groups at all ages, indicating that Nxnl1 and Nxnl2 exert non-redundant and/or complementary roles in maintaining photoreceptor function. These findings suggest that the combined products of Nxnl genes may yield more effective therapies for RP.
Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) is a rare genetic disorder characterized by a wide range of symptoms and clinical signs. The aim of the current work is to provide a comprehensive overview of the clinical and genetic features of BBS patients, with a focus on ophthalmological manifestations.In a retrospective analysis at the University Eye Hospital Bonn, data from 18 patients with a molecular genetically confirmed diagnosis of BBS were analyzed. In addition to the medical history, clinical examination included multimodal imaging, the collection of functional data and molecular genetic diagnostics.17 patients (17/18; 94%) presented typical retinal changes consistent with retinitis pigmentosa (RP) and 1 patient (1/18; 6%) showed a central cone-rod dystrophy without peripheral changes. In addition, other nonophthalmological symptoms and clinical signs, such as limb abnormalities (9/18; 50%), obesity (7/18; 39%), urogenital tract abnormalities (7/18; 39%) and neurological symptoms (8/18; 44%) were noted. Molecular genetic analyses revealed disease-causing variants in several BBS genes, including the BBS1 (Bardet-Biedl syndrome)1 gene (9), BBS10 (3), BBS7 (1), BBS12 (1) and the MKKS (McKusick-Kaufmann syndrome) gene (2). The average time between the onset of the first ophthalmological symptoms and the final genetic diagnosis was 15 years (median 10 years, range 1-36 years).This study emphasizes the importance of an interdisciplinary approach in the diagnosis and treatment of BBS patients. The clinical heterogeneity of BBS can lead to diagnostic delays. Early diagnosis enables appropriate genetic counseling, monitoring of disease progression, individualized treatment initiation and exploration of potential therapeutic interventions.© 2025. The Author(s).
A male patient in his late thirties, homozygous for the M390R Bardet-Biedl Syndrome-1 (BBS1) variant, began follow-up in early adulthood, due to decreased visual acuity and photophobia. Fundus examination showed bilateral temporal wedge-shaped pallor of the optic disc and atrophic maculopathy, translating into central hypoautofluorescence on fundus autofluorescence. Even though clinical and multimodal imaging features suggested cone-dominant degeneration, electroretinography (ERG) showed reduced scotopic and photopic responses, with greater scotopic impairment. Despite a thorough systemic evaluation and long-term follow-up, no other features of BBS were found. To our knowledge, this is the first documented case of non-syndromic BBS1-associated disease with a rod-cone dystrophy phenotype on ERG and a clinical presentation (symptoms and imaging features) of cone-dominant disease. The discrepancy between clinical/imaging and ERG findings reflects the complexity of BBS1-related disease and highlights the crucial role of genetic testing and comprehensive phenotyping in inherited retinal disorders.© BMJ Publishing Group Limited 2025. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Renal ciliopathies are a genetically and phenotypically heterogeneous group of diseases characterized by cystic and dysplastic kidneys. The aim of this study was to investigate the correlation between genetic changes that cause renal ciliopathies and phenotypic outcomes. The study group consisted of 137 patients diagnosed with renal ciliopathy disease. One hundred nineteen patients had ADPKD phenotype, 7 patients had ARPKD phenotype, 4 patients had nephronophthisis, 1 patient had Senior-Loken syndrome, 4 patients had Bardet-Biedl syndrome, 1 patient had Joubert syndrome and 1 patient had Meckel Gruber syndrome phenotype. Among patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease, patients with the PKD1 gene mutation had higher creatinine levels (p value: 0.020) and no arachnoid cysts were revealed in the PKD2 group (p value: 0.014). When the domains were compared, the finding of arachnoid cyst in patients with mutations in the transmembrane domain was statistically significant (p value: 0.021). Homozygous likely pathogenic variant in the TCTN1 gene was reported in a fetus who had findings of Meckel-Gruber syndrome; microphthalmia and cardiac hypoplasia were reported as novel findings. As a conclusion, we identified variant spectrum of renal ciliopathies in Turkish cohort and revealed the association between the transmembrane domain and arachnoid cyst.© 2024 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Audiogenic Epilepsy (AEs) is a subtype of epileptic seizure that is generally caused by high-intensity sounds. A large number of traditional medicines has been explored in this lieu where our study chased Galium verum L. (Rubiaceae), an herbal plant which is commonly known as Lady's Bedstraw, that contains a highly rich chemical composition including flavonoids (Hispidulin, Quercetin, and Kaempferol), and phenolic acids (chlorogenic acid, caftaric acid, and gallic acid). G verum is well known for its antioxidant, neuroprotective, and anti-inflammatory properties. Recently, the unique role of Adhesion G Protein- Coupled Receptor V1 (ADGRV1) protein in the progression of audiogenic epilepsy has been explored.This study aimed to examine the potent phytoconstituents of the hydroalcoholic extract of G. verum L. (HEGV) using analytical techniques. Additionally, our study sought to evaluate the antioxidant, neuroprotective, anti-inflammatory properties, and antiepileptic potency of HEGV by targeting ADGRV1 via in silico and in vitro analyses using SHSY5Y cells.HPLC and LC-MS techniques were employed to identify the flavonoids, iridoids, and phenolic acid derivatives present in HEGV. DPPH (2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl), nitric oxide (NO), and hydroxyl (OH) radical scavenging assays were performed to confirm the antioxidant potential of the extract. Additionally, in silico molecular docking and molecular dynamic studies were performed using AutoDock Vina software to analyze the possible interactions between crucial phytoconstituents of HEGV and ADGRV1, followed by cell line analysis. In the in vitro analysis, antioxidant, neuroprotective, and anti-inflammatory properties were assessed via cell viability assay, IL, GABA, and glutamate estimation.LC-MS and HPLC analyses revealed high concentrations of hispidulin, a major flavonoid found in HEGV. HEGV exhibited moderate-to-high free radical-scavenging activities comparable to those of ascorbic acid. Docking analysis demonstrated that hispidulin has a stronger binding affinity with ADGRV1 (Vina score = -8.6 kcal/mol) than other compounds. Furthermore, cell line analysis revealed that the MSG exacerbates the neurodegeneration and neuroinflammation, whereas, HEGV and Hispidulin both possess neuroprotective, antioxidant, and antiepileptic activities.HEGV and Hispidulin proved to be promising candidates for treating audiogenic epilepsy by modulating ADGRV1.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Skipped: PubMed ID 37848252 is a review article
Various cardiac and autonomic manifestations are frequently reported during seizures. Among the seizure-related arrhythmia, ictal tachycardia is the most common, followed by ictal bradycardia, with ictal asystole being the rarest. The occurrence of ictal asystole may obscure the clinical presentation and delay the diagnosis, representing a life-threatening presentation of epilepsy, with an elevated risk of sudden unexpected death in epilepsy patients (SUDEP). These cardiac abnormalities are being increasingly recognized as the key to elucidating the mechanisms of SUDEP.We present a 35-year-old man with a history of focal-onset seizures with impaired consciousness since his mid-20 s. He developed different types of seizures for 2 years, described as tonic seizure and atonic seizure (drop attack). During such clinical events, he suffered from falls and cardiac arrest. However, thorough cardiac electrophysiology and imaging workup failed to reveal a cardiac etiology. Subsequent video electroencephalograph (EEG) monitoring was performed, and ictal bradycardia and ictal asystole were discovered. A cardiac pacemaker was implanted, and at 3-year follow-up, the patient did not suffer more atonic seizures, or falls. Genetic tests discovered a de novo variant of Adhesion G Protein-Coupled Receptor V1 (ADGRV1), which may provide a clue for the patient's ictal asystole and the increased risk of SUDEP.Considering the important impact of ictal bradycardia and asystole on the morbidity and potential mortality of epileptic patients, it is important to simultaneously utilize EEG and electrocardiogram to confirm the diagnosis. This case report highlights the link between the de novo variant of ADGRV1 and the ictal bradycardia/asystole phenotype and implicates the importance of genetic testing in adult epilepsy patients.© 2023. The Author(s).
Gene replacement therapy can be used for the treatment of hereditary retinopathies, such as retinol dehydrogenase 12 (RDH12)-associated Leber congenital amaurosis 13 (LCA13); however, the lack of animal models accurately mimicking the human disease phenotype requires the initial in vitro confirmation of therapy efficacy. Two synthetic serotypes (2.7m8 and PHP.S) of adeno-associated virus (AAV) were tested against the natural serotypes (5 and 9) with the aim of increasing the transduction efficiency and delivery of the green fluorescent protein (GFP) in HEK293 and ARPE-19 cells. The three most efficient serotypes were then used for the delivery of RDH12, followed by the assessment of its functional activity in the transduced cells. In the in vitro test system, a cassette encoding GFP and the wild-type (wt) RDH12 was delivered into ARPE-19 and HEK293 cells by rAAV 5, PHP.S, and 7m8 at 30K and 60K VG/cell. RDH12 mutants pThr155Ile (RDH12mut) and Met1* (RDH12sc) were used to mimic the RDH12-associated pathology. Transduction efficiency and protein expression were assessed by flow cytometry, fluorescence microscopy, and Western blotting. Percentages of AAV7m8-transduced GFP+ cells 1.5- and 6.4-times higher were observed as compared to AAV5 and AAV.PHP.S, respectively. 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE), more toxic to the cells with dysfunctional RDH12, was used on cells expressing the three RDH12wt versions. Following treatment with 100 μM 4-HNE, 2.6 (AAV5) and 8.8 (AAV7m8) times more cells co-expressing RDH12wt and GFP were alive as compared to the cells expressing only GFP. The number of live RDH12wt-expressing cells was also 32 and 9.6 times higher than that of RDH12sc-expressing cells and the negative control (NC), respectively. The developed approach enables the functional assessment of RDH12 replacement therapy only in rAAV-transduced cells and demonstrates that rAAV7m8 is the most efficient serotype for this purpose.
Decabromodiphenyl ethane (DBDPE), as the novel brominated flame retardant, has been frequently detected in aquatic environments worldwide and has been confirmed to be harmful to aquatic organisms. Previous studies have mostly inferred potential damage to specific organs based on abnormal behaviors in zebrafish, but the multi-organ cross-toxicity of DBDPE and its underlying mechanisms remain to be elucidated. In this study, zebrafish (Danio rerio) embryos were exposed to DBDPE at concentrations of 5, 50, and 500 μg/L for 120 h. The results showed that DBDPE impaired embryonic development, causing cardiotoxicity, neurotoxicity, and visual toxicity. DBDPE induced excessive production of reactive oxygen species (ROS), accumulation of malondialdehyde (MDA), and depletion of glutathione (GSH), which in turn triggered phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) accumulation and ferroptosis-related proteins (ceruloplasmin, heme oxygenase 1, and autophagy-related protein 5) downregulation, accompanied by cardiac developmental abnormalities such as pericardial edema, increased heart rate, and prolonged sinoatrial-atrioventricular (SV-BA) distance. Beyond its cardiac effects, DBDPE exposure induced distinct neurotoxicity, including anxiety and aggression. Mechanistically, DBDPE directly interfered with lysophosphatidylcholine (LysoPC) metabolism and disrupted the normal localization of metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5), leading to neurobehavioral abnormalities. In addition, the phenomenon of ocular protrusion may be related to abnormal expression of retinol dehydrogenase 12 (RDH12) and glucuronosyltransferase (UGT1B2), key factors in retinol metabolism. This study firstly showed that DBDPE's multi-organ developmental toxicity is driven by an interconnected metabolic-protein network, which not only significantly advances the understanding of the complex toxic mechanisms of DBDPE, but also lays a solid scientific foundation for accurate environmental risk assessment and early health warning of such emerging pollutants.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Sperm flagellum defects are tightly associated with male infertility. Centriolar satellites are small multiprotein complexes that recruit satellite proteins to the centrosome and play an essential role in sperm flagellum biogenesis, but the precise mechanisms underlying this role remain unclear. Serologically defined colon cancer autoantigen protein 8 (SDCCAG8), which encodes a protein containing eight coiled-coil (CC) domains, has been associated with syndromic ciliopathies and male infertility. However, its exact role in male infertility remains undefined. Here, we used an Sdccag8 mutant mouse carrying a CC domains 5-8 truncated mutation (c.1351-1352insG p.E451GfsX467) that models the mutation causing Senior-Løken syndrome (c.1339-1340insG p.E447GfsX463) in humans. The homozygous Sdccag8 mutant mice exhibit male infertility characterized by multiple morphological abnormalities of the flagella (MMAF) and dysmorphic structures in the sperm manchette. A mechanistic study revealed that the SDCCAG8 protein is localized to the manchette and centrosomal region and interacts with PCM1, the scaffold protein of centriolar satellites, through its CC domains 5-7. The absence of the CC domains 5-7 in mutant spermatids destabilizes PCM1, which fails to recruit satellite components such as Bardet-Biedl syndrome 4 (BBS4) and centrosomal protein of 131 kDa (CEP131) to satellites, resulting in defective sperm flagellum biogenesis, as BBS4 and CEP131 are essential to flagellum biogenesis. In conclusion, this study reveals the central role of SDCCAG8 in maintaining centriolar satellite integrity during sperm flagellum biogenesis.
This study aimed to evaluate the potential mediating role of the plasma proteome in the association between rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and mental disorders.A two-sample, two-step mediation Mendelian randomization (MR) approach was used to investigate the causal relationship between RA and mental disorders and the role of plasma proteins in these associations. Sensitivity analyses were conducted to validate the MR results.Through MR analysis, we identified associations between RA subtypes (seropositive RA [SPRA] and seronegative RA [SNRA]) and various mental disorders, including bipolar disorder (BD), anxiety disorder (AD), and hoarding disorder (HD). Significant positive correlations were observed between RA and AD (odds ratio [OR]: 1.1547; P = 0.0304), SPRA and HD (OR: 1.0138; P = 0.0464), and SNRA and BD (OR: 1.0530; P = 0.0382). Protein association analysis identified 167, 71, and 95 plasma proteins significantly associated with BD, AD, and HD, respectively. After sensitivity testing and false discovery rate (FDR) correction, 15 proteins were significantly associated with BD. Mediation analysis indicated that EF-hand calcium-binding domain-containing protein 14 (EFCAB14) played a major mediating role in the pathway between SNRA and BD, accounting for 45.8 % of the effect followed by Cadherin-related family member 1 (CDHR1), which accounted for 23.2 %.This study highlighted the significant role of RA in mental disorder development, with plasma proteins partially mediating this effect and lays the groundwork for future diagnostic biomarkers and intervention strategies.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Vitamin A is a micronutrient critical for versatile biological functions and has been widely used in the food, cosmetics, pharmaceutical, and nutraceutical industries. Synthetic biology and metabolic engineering enable microbes, especially the model organism Saccharomyces cerevisiae (generally recognised as safe) to possess great potential for the production of vitamin A. Herein, we first generated a vitamin A-producing strain by mining β-carotene 15,15'-mono(di)oxygenase from different sources and identified two isoenzymes Mbblh and Ssbco with comparable catalytic properties but different catalytic mechanisms. Combinational expression of isoenzymes increased the flux from β-carotene to vitamin A metabolism. To modulate the vitamin A components, retinol dehydrogenase 12 from Homo sapiens was introduced to achieve more than 90 % retinol purity using shake flask fermentation. Overexpressing POS5Δ17 enhanced the reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate pool, and the titer of vitamin A was elevated by almost 46 %. Multi-copy integration of the key rate-limiting step gene Mbblh further improved the synthesis of vitamin A. Consequently, the titer of vitamin A in the strain harbouring the Ura3 marker was increased to 588 mg/L at the shake-flask level. Eventually, the highest reported titer of 5.21 g/L vitamin A in S. cerevisiae was achieved in a 1-L bioreactor. This study unlocked the potential of S. cerevisiae for synthesising vitamin A in a sustainable and economical way, laying the foundation for the commercial-scale production of bio-based vitamin A.© 2024 The Authors.
The cadherin family plays a pivotal role in orchestrating synapse formation in the central nervous system. Cadherin-related family member 1 (CDHR1) is a photoreceptor-specific calmodulin belonging to the expansive cadherin superfamily. However, its role in traumatic brain injury (TBI) remains largely unknown. CDHR1 expression across various brain tissue sites was analyzed using the GSE104687 dataset. Employing a summary-data-based Mendelian Randomization (SMR) approach, integrated analyses were performed by amalgamating genome-wide association study abstracts from TBI with public data on expressed quantitative trait loci and DNA methylation QTL from both blood and diverse brain tissues. CDHR1 expression and localization in different brain tissues were meticulously delineated using western blotting, immunohistochemistry, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. CDHR1 expression was consistently elevated in the TBI group compared to that in the sham group across multiple tissues. The inflammatory response emerged as a crucial biological mechanism, and pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory factors were not expressed in either group. Integrated SMR analyses encompassing both blood and brain tissues substantiated the heightened CDHR1 expression profiles, with methylation modifications emerging as potential contributing factors for increased TBI risk. This was corroborated by western blotting and immunohistochemistry, confirming augmented CDHR1 expression following TBI. This multi-omics-based genetic association study highlights the elevated TBI risk associated with CDHR1 expression coupled with putative methylation modifications. These findings provide compelling evidence for future targeted investigations and offer promising avenues for developing interventional therapies for TBI.© 2024. The Author(s).
Global warming is one of the most significant and widespread effects of climate change. While early life stages are particularly vulnerable to increasing temperatures, little is known about the molecular processes that underpin their capacity to adapt to temperature change during early development. Using a quantitative proteomics approach, we investigated the effects of thermal stress on octopus embryos. We exposed Octopus berrima embryos to different temperature treatments (control 19°C, current summer temperature 22°C, or future projected summer temperature 25°C) until hatching. By comparing their protein expression levels, we found that future projected temperatures significantly reduced levels of key eye proteins such as S-crystallin and retinol dehydrogenase 12, suggesting the embryonic octopuses had impaired vision at elevated temperature. We also found that this was coupled with a cellular stress response that included a significant elevation of proteins involved in molecular chaperoning and redox regulation. Energy resources were also redirected away from non-essential processes such as growth and digestion. These findings, taken together with the high embryonic mortality observed under the highest temperature, identify critical physiological functions of embryonic octopuses that may be impaired under future warming conditions. Our findings demonstrate the severity of the thermal impacts on the early life stages of octopuses as demonstrated by quantitative proteome changes that affect vision, protein chaperoning, redox regulation and energy metabolism as critical physiological functions that underlie the responses to thermal stress.Global Change Biology© 2024 The Authors. Global Change Biology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Hyperuricemia is a chronic metabolic disease caused by purine metabolism disorder. And several gene loci and transporter proteins that associated with uric acid transport functions have been identified. Retinol Dehydrogenase 12 (RDH12), recognized for its role in safeguarding photoreceptors, and our study investigated the potential impact of Rdh12 mutations on other organs and diseases, particularly hyperuricemia. We assessed Rdh12 mRNA expression levels in various tissues and conducted serum biochemical analyses in Rdh12-/- mice. Compared with the wild type, significant alterations in serum uric acid levels and kidney-related biochemical indicators have been revealed. Then further analysis, including quantitative RT-PCR of gene expression in the liver and kidney, highlighted variations in the expression levels of specific genes linked to hyperuricemia. And renal histology assessment exposed mild pathological lesions in the kidneys of Rdh12-/- mice. In summary, our study suggests that Rdh12 mutations impact not only retinal function but also contribute to hyperuricemia and renal disease phenotypes in mice. Our finding implies that individuals with Rdh12 mutations may be prone to hyperuricemia and gout, emphasizing the significance of preventive measures and regular examinations in daily life.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Aberrations in cadherin-related 23 (CDH23) account for a significant proportion of familial autosomal recessive non-syndromic hearing loss (DFNB12), a common subtype of hereditary hearing loss worldwide.To elucidate the molecular basis and pathogenic mechanism of DFNB12 in an affected girl from a nine-member pedigree.Family-based genetic study with pedigree analysis.Clinical whole-exome sequencing combined with pedigree analysis was used to identify disease-causing mutations. The potential functional consequences of these mutations were investigated using structural bioinformatic approaches, including homology modeling, molecular dynamics simulations, and other relevant tools.The proband carried compound heterozygous variants: a known pathogenic maternal variant (c.6049G > A) and a paternal haplotype comprising two linked variants (c.3262G > A and c.6911G > A), each individually classified as benign. Pedigree segregation analysis demonstrated that the paternal haplotype acts as a single pathogenic allele.Two individually benign variants can combine to form a novel pathogenic haplotype (c.3262A–c.6911A). This mechanism may be under-recognized in routine variant interpretation pipelines. Our findings underscore the importance of evaluating the combined effects of linked benign variants to ensure accurate genetic counseling.
Congenital coat-colour-related deafness is common among certain canine breeds especially those exhibiting extreme white spotting or merle patterning. We identified a non-syndromic deafness in Beauceron dogs characterised by a bilateral hearing loss in puppies that is not linked to coat colour. Pedigree analysis suggested an autosomal recessive transmission. By combining homozygosity mapping with whole genome sequencing and variant filtering in affected dogs we identified a CDH23:c.700C>T variant. The variant, located in the CHD23 (cadherin related 23) gene, was predicted to induce a CDH23:p.(Pro234Ser) change in the protein. Proline-234 of CDH23 protein is highly conserved across different vertebrate species. In silico tools predicted the CDH23:p.(Pro234Ser) change to be deleterious. CDH23 encodes a calcium-dependent transmembrane glycoprotein localised near the tips of hair-cell stereocilia in the mammalian inner ear. Intact function of these cilia is mandatory for the transformation of the acoustical wave into a neurological signal, leading to sensorineural deafness when impaired. By genotyping a cohort of 90 control Beauceron dogs sampled in France, we found a 3.3% carrier frequency. The CDH23:c.[700C>T] allele is easily detectable with a genetic test to avoid at-risk matings.© 2022 The Authors. Animal Genetics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Stichting International Foundation for Animal Genetics.
Chronic mental health problems are common among military veterans who sustained blast-related traumatic brain injuries. The reasons for this association remain unexplained. Male rats exposed to repetitive low-level blast overpressure (BOP) exposures exhibit chronic cognitive and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)-related traits that develop in a delayed fashion. We examined blast-induced alterations on the transcriptome in four brain areas (anterior cortex, hippocampus, amygdala, and cerebellum) across the time frame over which the PTSD-related behavioral phenotype develops. When analyzed at 6 weeks or 12 months after blast exposure, relatively few differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were found. However, longitudinal analysis of amygdala, hippocampus, and anterior cortex between 6 weeks and 12 months revealed blast-specific DEG patterns. Six DEGs (hyaluronan and proteoglycan link protein 1 [Hapln1], glutamate metabotropic receptor 2 [Grm2], purinergic receptor P2y12 [P2ry12], C-C chemokine receptor type 5 [Ccr5], phenazine biosynthesis-like protein domain containing 1 [Pbld1], and cadherin related 23 [Cdh23]) were found altered in all three brain regions in blast-exposed animals. Pathway enrichment analysis using all DEGs or those uniquely changed revealed different transcription patterns in blast versus sham. In particular, the amygdala in blast-exposed animals had a unique set of enriched pathways related to stress responses, oxidative phosphorylation, and mitochondrial dysfunction. Upstream analysis implicated tumor necrosis factor (TNF)α signaling in blast-related effects in amygdala and anterior cortex. Eukaryotic initiating factor eIF4E (EIF4e), an upstream regulator of P2ry12 and Ccr5, was predicted to be activated in the amygdala. Quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) validated longitudinal changes in two TNFα regulated genes (cathepsin B [Ctsb], Hapln1), P2ry12, and Grm2. These studies have implications for understanding how blast injury damages the brain and implicates inflammation as a potential therapeutic target.
Gelsemium elegans (G. elegans) has been shown to have strong pharmacological and pharmacodynamic effects in relevant studies both in China and USA. G. elegans has been used as a traditional medicine to treat a variety of diseases and even has the potential to be an alternative to laboratory synthesized drugs. However, its toxicity severely limited its application and development. At present, there is little attention paid to protein changes in toxicity.This study investigated the toxicity effects after long-term exposure of G. elegans of the rat brain through proteomic.11 differential abundance proteins were detected, among which 8 proteins were higher in the G. elegans- exposure group than in the control group, including Ig-like domain-containing protein (N/A), receptor-type tyrosine-protein phosphatase C (Ptprc), disheveled segment polarity protein 3 (Dvl3), trafficking protein particle complex 12 (Trappc12), seizure-related 6 homologlike (Sez6l), transmembrane 9 superfamily member 4 (Tm9sf4), DENN domain-containing protein 5A (Dennd5a) and Tle4, whereas the other 3 proteins do the opposite including Golgi to ER traffic protein 4 (Get4), vacuolar protein sorting 4 homolog B (Vps4b) and cadherin-related 23 (CDH23). Furthermore, we performed validation of WB analysis on the key protein CDH23.Finally, only fewer proteins and related metabolic pathways were affected, indicating that there was no accumulative toxicity of G. elegans. G. elegans has the potential to develop and utilize of its pharmacological activity. CHD23, however, is a protein associated with hearing.Whether the hearing impairment is a sequela after G. elegans exposure remains to be further studied.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 20301590
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 27336129
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 30285347
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 20301500
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 20301537
Canine progressive retinal atrophy (PRA) describes a group of hereditary diseases characterized by photoreceptor cell death in the retina, leading to visual impairment. Despite the identification of multiple PRA-causing variants, extensive heterogeneity of PRA is observed across and within dog breeds, with many still genetically unsolved. This study sought to elucidate the causal variant for a distinct form of PRA in the Shetland sheepdog, using a whole-genome sequencing approach. Filtering variants from a single PRA-affected Shetland sheepdog genome compared to 176 genomes of other breeds identified a single nucleotide variant in exon 11 of the Bardet-Biedl syndrome-2 gene (BBS2) (c.1222G>C; p.Ala408Pro). Genotyping 1386 canids of 155 dog breeds, 15 cross breeds and 8 wolves indicated the c.1222G>C variant was only segregated within Shetland sheepdogs. Out of 505 Shetland sheepdogs, seven were homozygous for the variant. Clinical history and photographs for three homozygotes indicated the presence of a novel phenotype. In addition to PRA, additional clinical features in homozygous dogs support the discovery of a novel syndromic PRA in the breed. The development and utilization of a diagnostic DNA test aim to prevent the mutation from becoming more prevalent in the breed.
Early-life adversity, including prenatal stress exposure, has enduring effects on stress responsivity later in life. Yet the impact of maternal stress on offspring susceptibility to stress and its underlying biological mechanisms remain to be elucidated. Here, we established a "2-hit" stress model to investigate whether maternal chronic unpredictable stress (E9.5 to E18) increases offspring susceptibility to social isolation during adolescence (P28 to P49). Our study reveals that maternal stress increases susceptibility to adolescent social isolation in male-but not female-offspring, manifested as increased anxiety- and depressive-like behaviors. This vulnerability is mediated by the priming of hippocampal dentate gyrus microglia through the complement C3-C3aR signaling pathway, which promotes the aberrant phagocytosis of excitatory synapses and reduces glutamatergic neuronal activity. Notably, pharmacological blockade of C3aR or chemogenetic activation of glutamatergic neurons in the dentate gyrus during adolescence effectively alleviated stress susceptibility. Therefore, our findings identify a targetable immune-mediated mechanism in the hippocampus that underlies stress vulnerability in offspring exposed to gestational maternal stress, offering new avenues for preventing adolescent-onset mood disorders.Copyright © 2026 Xiaoqing Wang et al.
Colchicine (COL) is a widely used anti-inflammatory agent, but its therapeutic potential is limited by its toxicity, particularly in the spleen. This study investigates the protective role of pumpkin seed oil (PMNO) against COL-induced immune dysregulation in male rats. Forty male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into four groups: control, PMNO (4 mL/kg b.wt), COL (0.6 mg/kg b.wt), and COL + PMNO. After 56 days, COL administration significantly increased serum IgG, IgM, and complement C3 levels, while significantly reducing nitric oxide concentrations. PMNO co-treatment significantly restored these parameters to baseline values. COL exposure also induced pronounced oxidative stress in splenic tissue, as evidenced by increased levels of 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine, protein carbonyls, and malondialdehyde, accompanied by significant reductions in the antioxidant defenses, including superoxide dismutase, catalase, and reduced glutathione. PMNO treatment significantly reduced oxidative stress markers, improving redox balance. Histopathological examination revealed spleen damage in COL-treated rats, including mild depletion of white pulp, expansion of red pulp, and collagen accumulation. PMNO co-treatment alleviated these changes and reduced collagen deposition. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed a marked reduction in proliferating cell nuclear antigen immunoreactivity and a significant increase in BAX expression in the spleens of COL-treated rats. These alterations were markedly attenuated by PMNO co-administration. These findings suggest that PMNO protects against COL-induced splenic injury, as evidenced by improvements in immune-related biomarkers, oxidative stress indices, histopathological alterations, and apoptosis-associated markers, highlighting its potential as a natural therapeutic agent for mitigating COL-associated splenic injury.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Grass carp hemorrhagic disease caused by grass carp reovirus (GCRV) results in severe economic losses in aquaculture. Vaccination is an effective strategy for controlling viral infections. The subunit vaccines are considered promising because of their safety, strong immunogenicity, and ease of production. In this study, antigenic epitopes derived from the outer capsid proteins VP4, VP5, and NS38 of GCRV genotype II (GCRV-II) were identified, and oral Lactobacillus casei recombinant vaccines were developed to evaluate their protective efficacy in grass carp. Based on sequence homology, epitope prediction and structural analyses, three dominant epitopes, VP4274-367, VP5105-336 and NS38143-338, were selected and fused into a recombinant protein. The immunogenicity of fusion protein was confirmed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Injection of the fusion protein significantly enhanced the expression of immune-related genes, increased serum neutralizing antibody levels and reduced the expression of inflammatory cytokines. After GCRV-II challenge, the vaccinated fish showed a survival rate of 66.7%, compared with 6.7% in the injectable control group, and exhibited the lowest tissue viral loads among all groups. To develop an oral vaccine suitable for aquaculture, the fused epitope sequence was inserted into the secretory expression vector pVE5523 and expressed in L. casei. The recombinant strain showed high tolerance to heat and acidic conditions and stably colonized the intestine for up to 14 d. Oral administration of feed containing freeze-dried recombinant L. casei significantly upregulated immune-related genes (ifn1, cd4-2, mhc-Ⅱα,igm and igt) as well as lysozyme and complement C3 levels. After GCRV-II challenge, orally vaccinated fish reached a survival rate of 70%, much higher than the 23.33% survival observed in the oral control group, with significantly decreased tissue viral loads. These results demonstrate that the recombinant L. casei vaccine LC-VP4274-367-VP5105-336-NS38143-338 is a promising oral vaccine candidate for protecting grass carp against GCRV-II infection.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Acute respiratory failure (ARF) may develop in some patients with community-acquired pneumonia (CAP), resulting in a significantly increased mortality rate. Early identification of high-risk patients is essential for improving prognosis. This study aimed to investigate the predictive value of inflammatory and immune markers for acute respiratory failure in patients with community-acquired pneumonia.This single-center retrospective cohort study included 334 patients with community-acquired pneumonia admitted at Zhuji Sixth People's Hospital, between January 2021 and December 2024. Patients were divided into a CAP-only (non-event) group and a CAP-ARF (event) group based on the development of acute respiratory failure. Inflammatory markers (white blood cell count, neutrophil count, tumor necrosis factor-α, etc.) and immune markers (complement components 3 and 4[C3andC4], immunoglobulins A and G [IgAand IgG], etc.) were collected within 24 hours of admission. Univariate and multivariate logistic regression analyses were performed to identify independent predictive factors, and the predictive performance of individual and combined indicators was evaluated using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves.Multivariate analysis showed that elevated white blood cell count, neutrophil count, and tumor necrosis factor-α levels were independent risk factors for acute respiratory failure, while decreased levels of complement C3 and C4, and IgA and IgG, were independent protective factors. The combined predictive model incorporating these indicators demonstrated excellent predictive performance for acute respiratory failure, with an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.853.In patients with community-acquired pneumonia, inflammatory and immune markers exhibit significant predictive value for the development of acute respiratory failure. A combined assessment of white blood cell count, neutrophil count, tumor necrosis factor-α, complement C3 and C4, and IgA and IgG may facilitate early identification of high-risk patients and inform clinical decision-making.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Blast traumatic brain injury results in chronic pathology, especially for those receiving repetitive injuries. To evaluate cellular changes induced by these pressure waves, we studied post-mortem prefrontal cortex of military personnel with a history of multiple blast exposures and military controls with no battlefield experience. Chronic increases in IBA1 (microglia) and GFAP (glial fibrillary acidic protein; astrocyte) immunoreactivity occurred in injured brains and also confirmed that GFAP-expressing astrocytes altered predominantly at interface regions of the brain: around blood vessels, the grey-white matter interface and in layer 1, consistent with the pattern of damage seen with blast exposure. We focused on pathologic implications of the astrocyte derived proteins GFAP, aquaporin-4, and connexin-43. Astrocyte morphology in injured samples altered significantly, revealing a disintegrated, beaded shape, with a loss of fine processes. We also observed a shift in astrocyte immunoreactivity, where control brains showed two dominant populations, labelling as either GFAP+ or aquaporin-4+ only, with a smaller portion of co-labelled cells. Samples from injured brains revealed the emergence of a third dominant population of cells with abnormal morphology co-labelled with GFAP and aquaporin-4; significant increases in astrocytes with abnormal morphology also occurred, including those both GFAP+ and aquaporin-4+. Connexin-43, which helps maintain neural homeostasis, significantly co-labelled with aquaporin-4, and not GFAP, in both control and injured brains, suggesting the aquaporin-4 subtype to be homeostatic. Interlaminar astrocytes consistently showed abnormal morphology in injured brains, featuring extensive GFAP+ beaded processes. The GFAP+ beaded processes showed additional characteristics in the injured brains, being surrounded in a ring-like fashion by aquaporin-4 immunoreactivity as well as co-labelling with phosphorylated connexin-43, indicating an inflammatory phenotype. To investigate secondary pathology that might relate to immune dysfunction, immunoreactivity with IgG revealed the presence of autoantibody in injury samples, which primarily labelled neurons in layer 2-3 that also co-immunoreacted with complement C3. Half of the interlaminar astrocytes in the injured brains also showed immunoreactivity with C3. We conclude that control human cerebral cortex contains at least two distinct populations that express either GFAP or aquaporin-4, but not both. After military related blast traumatic brain injury, a third population of astrocytes emerges expressing both GFAP and aquaporin-4. Connexin-43 continues to be co-expressed with aquaporin-4, but shifts toward an abnormal morphology. We also find overall chronic alterations in expression of astrocytic proteins that coincide with induction of autoantibodies directed towards neurons and recruit complement.Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Guarantors of Brain 2026.
Background/Objectives: Cytological analysis of pleural and peritoneal effusions is minimally invasive but may show limited sensitivity for malignancy detection because tumor cells can be scarce or morphologically difficult to identify. Proteomics-based mass spectrometry imaging (MSI) enables direct molecular profiling of cytological specimens and may improve the distinction between malignant and benign samples. This study investigated whether MALDI-based MSI profiling of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) cytology cell blocks could discriminate high-grade serous ovarian carcinoma (HGSOC) from benign effusions and identify discriminatory peptide signatures. Methods: Forty-one FFPE cytological specimens derived from pleural and peritoneal effusions were analyzed, including 18 malignant samples and 23 benign control specimens with reactive or inflammatory cytological backgrounds. MALDI-MSI analyses were performed using proteomic profiling. In a preliminary comparative experiment, two section thicknesses (3 µm and 5 µm) were evaluated to optimize ion peak intensity yield. Classification analyses using linear discriminant analysis (LDA) and support vector machine (SVM) models were performed to identify discriminatory peptide signatures. Results: Comparative analysis of average mass spectra identified multiple differentially expressed ions with significant discriminatory performance (AUROC ≥ 0.7 or ≤0.3; Wilcoxon/Kruskal-Wallis, p < 0.001). Classification analyses achieved accuracy ranged from 91% to 94% for the discrimination of malignant and benign samples. Differential proteomic profiling identified Complement C3, Perilipin-3, arachidonate 5-lipoxygenase, Leukotriene A-4 hydrolase, fibrinogen beta and gamma chains, and serotransferrin as discriminatory proteins associated with immune modulation, lipid metabolism, cytoskeletal and extracellular matrix organization, and metabolic regulation. Notably, Complement C3 was found to be overexpressed in malignant tumor cells, supporting its potential role as a marker of tumor presence and progression. Conclusions: Proteomics-based mass spectrometry imaging enabled reliable discrimination of HGSOC from benign cytological specimens and revealed cancer-associated proteins linked to relevant biological processes. These findings support MALDI-MSI as a complementary molecular approach for the classification of challenging cytological specimens in routine diagnostic pathology.
Background: Nutritional abnormalities, alterations in body composition, and impaired muscle function are increasingly recognized as clinically relevant features in patients with Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE). However, the relationship between multidimensional nutritional assessment and disease activity remains incompletely characterized. This study aimed to evaluate the associations between nutritional status, body composition, muscle strength, nutritional risk indices, and disease activity in patients with SLE. Materials and Methods: This exploratory retrospective study included hospitalized patients with SLE. Clinical data, anthropometric measurements, and nutritional status were assessed using the body mass index (BMI), prognostic nutritional index (PNI), controlling nutritional status (CONUT), and nutritional risk index (NRI). Muscle function was evaluated using the SARC-F scale. Disease activity was measured using the SLE Disease Activity Index 2000 (SLEDAI-2K). Multivariable linear regression models were constructed to assess the independent association between nutritional indices and disease activity, adjusting for age, sex, glucocorticoid exposure, and immunosuppressive therapy. Correlation analyses were performed between nutritional indices and disease activity-related variables, and supplementary exploratory Spearman correlations were performed between the SARC-F score and SLEDAI-2K, CRP, complement C3, complement C4, and ESR. False discovery rate correction using the Benjamini-Hochberg procedure was applied to exploratory correlation analyses. Results: A total of 67 patients were included. Nutritional indices (BMI, PNI, CONUT, and NRI) were not independently associated with SLEDAI-2K in multivariable regression analyses. In correlation analyses, after FDR adjustment, the PNI remained significantly associated with SLEDAI-2K, lymphocyte counts, and complement C3 levels, while CONUT remained significantly associated with lymphocyte count and C3 levels. The BMI and NRI were not significantly associated with disease activity or inflammatory markers after correction. SARC-F showed a weak positive correlation with SLEDAI-2K (r = 0.328; p = 0.008; qFDR = 0.040), which remained statistically significant after FDR correction. No significant correlations were observed between SARC-F and CRP, complement C3, complement C4, or ESR after FDR adjustment. Conclusions: Nutritional indices showed limited independent association with disease activity in SLE after adjustment for available confounders. Although the PNI and CONUT retained selected correlations with disease activity-related or immunological markers after FDR correction, these associations should be interpreted cautiously, as albumin- and lymphocyte-based indices may reflect inflammatory activity or disease burdens rather than nutritional status alone. SARC-F remains significantly associated with disease activity (SLEDAI-2K) after FDR adjustment. These findings should be validated in future prospective studies with a larger number of patients.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42505400 is a review article
Burns can lead to blood-brain barrier (BBB) disruption, triggering severe neurological complications. However, not all patients with mild thermal injury develop BBB leakage, and reliable peripheral biomarkers to identify concomitant BBB disruption remain lacking.This study aimed to identify a peripheral blood biomarker for detecting post-burn BBB disruption and to elucidate the molecular mechanisms driving this endothelial dysfunction.Mass spectrometry and Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) techniques were employed to screen potential circulating biomarkers. Diagnostic value was assessed via receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis using independent training and validation cohorts. Cellular mechanisms were investigated using in vivo and in vitro models, combined with transcriptomics, transmission electron microscopy, and behavioral assessments.Proteomic analysis identified complement C3 as a highly specific rule-in biomarker for detecting post-burn BBB disruption. C3 demonstrated robust diagnostic accuracy, yielding an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.978 in the training cohort and 0.855 in the validation cohort (with 100% specificity), particularly for cortical BBB leakage within the optimal 0-6 h post-injury window. Mechanistically, activation of the C3a/C3aR axis promoted mitochondrial dysfunction and maladaptive mitophagy in endothelial cells, leading to compromised BBB integrity, enhanced neuroinflammation, and cognitive impairment.Peripheral blood C3 serves as a highly specific biomarker for the early risk stratification of burn-induced cortical BBB disruption. Furthermore, the C3a/C3aR-mediated maladaptive mitophagy pathway drives this endothelial injury, offering novel targets for timely clinical intervention.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
The insulin signaling pathway is a core and evolutionarily conserved signal transduction network. Here we study hypomorphic mutant conditions in the sole insulin receptor gene (Inr) in the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster, placed at the beginning of the signaling cascade where it mediates the effects from the seven Drosophila insulin-like peptides. As such, it sits at a nodal point where signaling must pass to ensure and carry out all the functions ascribed to this anabolic pathway. We find that these mutant flies, while viable, exhibit hyperactivity and accumulate glycogen and body lipids. The hyperactivity phenotype was characterized in detail and is significantly different from controls both measuring it in several days' spells, or when done in a more detailed fashion in shorter time periods (twenty-five minutes). The proportion of time spent sleeping is also altered, highlighting the robust role that the insulin pathway has not only regulating metabolism but also behavior. When confronted with mild pro-oxidative conditions, these flies and control wildtype flies have reduced lifespans as well. The metabolic dysregulation is rescued when the Inr mutant flies are also heterozygous for keap1, a negative regulator of the Nrf2 pathway, while the antioxidant response and the activity/sleep levels exhibit only partial and sexually dimorphic improvements. Transcriptomic analyses of Inr mutants show that many metabolism and hormonal signaling genes are dysregulated.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Insulin resistance is a deficiency in insulin-mediated regulation of glucose metabolism and is considered a cause of multiple diseases such as diabetes and hypertension. Because the insulin signaling pathway plays a central role in insulin action, it has been extensively studied in the context of insulin resistance. However, the insulin signaling pathway's contribution to insulin resistance remains incompletely understood. Insulin receptor (IR) mutations can cause insulin resistance; however, reduced IR expression in obesity may still permit sufficient signaling due to the characteristics of IR, known as the spare receptor hypothesis. Selective insulin resistance, in which glucose metabolism is impaired while other pathways remain intact, further complicates insulin resistance. Nevertheless, our understanding of how the insulin signaling pathway contributes to these unresolved issues remains limited. To elucidate these mechanisms, we developed mathematical models of the hepatic insulin signaling pathway in mice with diet-induced obesity and found that changes in protein expression levels can largely account for signal attenuation. Insulin resistance was characterized using two indices: sensitivity shift and responsiveness shift. We found a trade-off between the two, whereby loss of responsiveness from upstream decreases was compensated for by decreases in downstream sensitivity. The excess of receptors conferred robustness to receptor decreases via the signaling pathway. Incoherent-feedforward-loop regulation maintained some signaling despite attenuation, potentially explaining selective insulin resistance. These findings provide deeper insights into insulin resistance and quantitative mechanisms underlying signaling pathway regulation.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Refractory hypoglycemia is common in malignant insulin-secreting tumors and is associated with substantial morbidity. Ersodetug is a fully human monoclonal antibody that allosterically attenuates insulin receptor signaling with the potential to treat various forms of hyperinsulinism (HI). We retrospectively report outcomes from compassionate use of ersodetug in eight individuals with refractory hypoglycemia due to tumor HI.Ersodetug was administered intravenously at 6 or 9 mg/kg every 1-2 weeks initially, followed by a frequency of every 2-5 weeks, as appropriate. Glycemic, functional, and safety outcomes were analyzed.Eight adults (4 M/4F; 24-74 years; Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) 1-3) received ersodetug for insulin-secreting tumors (metastatic insulinoma, n = 7; cervical neuroendocrine carcinoma, n = 1). No drug-related serious adverse events were observed. Most patients experienced improved glycemic control, including discontinuation of parenteral glucose in 6 of the 7 applicable patients (median, 4.5 days) and a 35.6% relative reduction from baseline in time in hypoglycemia (<70 mg/dL) by continuous glucose monitoring (mean 12.4% to 8.0%; pseudo-median paired change of -3.8 percentage points [90% CI, -8.2 to -1,1; P = 0.02). These glycemic improvements permitted hospital discharge and reductions in other antihypoglycemic therapies beyond glucose infusion rate (pseudo-median change, -2.5; 90% CI, -3.5 to -1.0; P = 0.02), with associated improvements in ECOG status. The median treatment duration with ersodetug (11.5 months, range 5-17) tended to correspond to patient lifespan in the setting of metastatic disease.Ersodetug therapy resulted in reduced hypoglycemia burden, ability to discontinue parenteral glucose infusion, allowing discharge from hospital, use of fewer antihypoglycemic therapies, and improved ECOG performance status in individuals with severe, refractory tumor HI.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Endocrine Society.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42548211
This study investigates the effect of mixed systems (suckling and machine milking) vs artificial rearing (only machine milking), on milk production, milk composition and the transcriptome of the mammary epithelium in Damascus goats. Thirty goats, in their first lactation period, were allocated into 2 experimental groups: artificial rearing (AR) and mixed rearing (MR). In the AR group, kids were separated from their mothers immediately after birth, whereas in the MR group, the goats suckled their kids until weaning (49 ± 3 d postpartum) while all goats were mechanically milked twice daily throughout the milking period. Commercial milk yield and milk fat, protein, lactose and total solid contents were recorded and milk fatty acid (FA) profile was analyzed. On the 42nd day postpartum, mammary epithelial biopsies were taken from 6 goats per experimental group for transcriptomic analysis by 3'mRNA sequencing. The results showed that while commercial milk yield before weaning was higher (P <0.05) in the AR (116.58L) compared with the MR group (73.16L), total commercial milk yield for the whole lactation period did not differ significantly between AR (351.3L) and MR groups (312.2L). Milk contents did not differ between groups (P >0.05) but total protein, lactose, solid nonfat yields were higher (P <0.05) in the AR group. Analysis of the FA profile revealed lower saturated, higher unsaturated and monosaturated FA contents in the MR group (P <0.05), while no differences were observed in the polyunsaturated FA content. The transcriptomic analysis revealed 9 differentially expressed (DE) genes (RBM8A, Clusterin, PPDPF, LOC108635834, BLMH, PINK1, PIM1, OSBPL7, and SMU1) and 12 genes showing a trend for DE. The genes which were differentially regulated in response to kid suckling are involved in developmental processes, RNA metabolism, nutrient and lipid transport and tissue regeneration. In conclusion, this study showed that kid suckling in Damascus goats does not adversely affect commercial milk production or milk composition, while it yields commercial milk with a nutritionally more favorable fatty acid profile. Furthermore, this is the first transcriptomic study addressing concurrent suckling and machine milking effects in mammary physiology in ruminants.Copyright © 2026 American Dairy Science Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Aluminum causes learning and memory impairments, and is an environmental and occupational toxicant. This in vivo and in vitro study assessed the implications of Lnc_000151 on aluminum-induced neurotoxicity through competitive binding to miR-96-5p. Fifty-six male SpragueDawley rats were randomly divided into eight groups: untreated, sham-operated, saline + sham-operated, Al(mal)₃ + sham-operated, saline + AAV-NC, Al(mal)₃ + AAV-NC, saline + AAV-Lnc_000151 shRNA, and Al(mal)₃ + AAV-Lnc_000151 shRNA. PC12 cells were separated into groups of 0, 100, 200, and 400 µM Al (mal)₃, and transfection groups including Lnc_000151 NC/siRNA, miR-96-5p NC/inhibitor, and IRS1 NC/siRNA. The learning and memory functions of rats were assessed via Morris water maze. Hippocampal CA1 neuronal count and synaptic structure were detected with hematoxylin-eosin staining and transmission electron microscopy. Cell apoptosis was measured using flow cytometry. Relative expression of Lnc_000151, miR-96-5p, and the IRS1/AKT/GSK3β pathway was determined using RT-PCR and Western blotting. The dual-luciferase assay confirmed targeted binding of Lnc_000151 to miR-96-5p and miR-96-5p to IRS1. In vivo and in vitro experiments demonstrated that under aluminum exposure, inhibition of Lnc_000151 expression exacerbated learning and memory impairments, neuronal loss, synaptic damage, increased Tau and p-Tau (Ser396) expression, and cell apoptosis. In vitro experiments further verified that under aluminum exposure and Lnc_000151 inhibition, suppressing miR-96-5p expression reduced Tau and p-Tau (Ser396) expression and cell apoptosis, while activating the IRS1/AKT/GSK3β pathway. However, further inhibition of IRS1 expression abrogated these ameliorative effects. In conclusion, this study demonstrates that Lnc_000151 can competitively bind to miR-96-5p in a competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA)-dependent manner, thereby regulating IRS1 expression, modulating the AKT/GSK3β pathway, and affecting aluminum-induced neurotoxicity.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Women with gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) are more likely to develop cardiovascular disease (CVD) within 3 to 10 years following pregnancy. Despite a return to normoglycemia shortly after gestation, GDM mothers still possess an increased risk of future CVD. In this study, we use a novel preclinical hormonal model of GDM to examine the mechanisms underlying future vascular and cardiac dysfunction in mothers with a history of GDM. We treated 16-week-old pregnant C57BL/6J mice with the insulin receptor antagonist (S961; 30nmol/kg, s.c.) from gestational day (GD) 7 (second trimester of pregnancy) until delivery to induce GDM. GDM mice developed systolic and diastolic dysfunction, arterial stiffness, hypertension, increased cardiac mass, and exercise intolerance at 10 weeks postpartum compared with saline-treated pregnant or S961-treated virgin mice. We also observed decreased plasma nitric oxide (NO) and increased endothelin-1 (ET-1) in GDM. The aorta of S961-induced GDM mice had increased pulse wave velocity, impaired vascular relaxation, remodeling, elevated reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and adhesion molecules, increased ET-1 type A receptor expression, and reduced sirtuin-1 (SIRT-1) expression. The left ventricle of S961-induced GDM mice exhibited fibrosis, thickness, and increased ROS production. Additionally, alterations in cardiac kinase activity in the nitric oxide/cyclic guanosine monophosphate/protein kinase G (NO/cGMP/PRKG) and AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) alpha pathways were observed at 10 weeks postpartum using novel Pamgene kinome technology. Thus, endothelin activation, suppressed NO/cGMP/PRKG signaling, impaired AMPK, and altered SIRT1 may be responsible for the development of vascular stiffness and cardiac dysfunction in mothers with a history of GDM.
Impaired insulin transport across the endothelium contributes to insulin resistance, a poorly understood condition implicated in diabetes and many other chronic diseases. Insulin has been reported to undergo non-receptor-mediated endocytosis resembling fluid-phase uptake through unclear mechanisms. Here we show in mice with diet-induced insulin resistance that endothelial-specific deletion of the depalmitoylase acyl-protein thioesterase 1 (APT1) improved glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity without affecting chronic inflammation or capillary structure. Endothelial APT1 deficiency increased interstitial insulin levels in mice confirmed by in-situ microneedle-based sampling. In cultured human microvascular cells, APT1 inhibition enhanced cell transport of high-dose insulin independent of the insulin receptor and canonical endocytic machinery. Unexpectedly, live-cell imaging revealed insulin rapidly localizing to mitochondria prior to endolysosomal trafficking, even at physiological insulin concentrations. APT1 inhibition delayed mitochondrial discharge of insulin to lysosomes. Cyclosporin A, an immunosuppressant known to affect mitochondrial function, preserved mitochondrial insulin content and promoted insulin transport in cultured cells, and enhanced interstitial insulin delivery in mice. Proteomic analysis revealed two palmitoylated proteins, PACS1 and YTHDF2, required for APT1-mediated mitochondrial-endolysosomal trafficking of insulin. A mitochondrial insulin shuttle in endothelial cells may participate in the physiological adaptation to hyperinsulinemia and its regulation by palmitoylation suggests a novel approach to insulin resistance.
Adeno-associated virus (AAV) gene therapy is frequently hindered by dose-limiting toxicities and preexisting neutralizing antibodies (nAbs). Here, we evaluate enhancer polymer (ePL), a cargo-less poly(L-lactic-co-glycolic acid) nanoparticle, the systemic administration of which demonstrated biocompatibility in nonhuman primates (NHPs) and generated a protransduction serum secretome that significantly enhanced AAV uptake in human iPSC-derived cardiomyocytes. Proteomic analysis of human peripheral blood mononuclear cell-derived secretomes identified a transient upregulation of AAV-entry factors, including ITGB3, alongside a downregulation of inflammatory cytokine pathways. Mechanistically, ePL-stimulated macrophages release a paracrine secretome that triggers the rapid, transient degradation of hepatic insulin receptor substrate 2 and subsequent AKT inhibition in liver and isolated primary mouse hepatocytes. Additionally, ePL attenuated the levels of NHP-derived nAbs in vitro and in a mouse-NHP xenotransfusion model without depleting total systemic immunoglobulins. Finally, ePL reduced Immunoglobulin G (IgG) secretory capacity of splenic B cells, suggesting a mechanistic link by which levels of nAbs are likely attenuated. Together, these findings highlight ePL as a promising supporting agent to improve AAV gene transfer, warranting its further optimization for clinical translation.
Monitoring microglial activation mediators remains challenging in neurodegeneration. Few imaging studies track amyloid-β (Aβ)-linked microglial dynamics across a wide field of view with high spatiotemporal resolution. Leveraging the triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (TREM2), a pivotal Alzheimer's disease (AD) biomarker that enhances Aβ clearance while suppressing neuroinflammation, we developed a dual-modal probe, TREM2-ICG, by conjugating a TREM2-specific antibody with indocyanine green (ICG), an FDA-approved dye, for robust in vivo photoacoustic and near-infrared-II (NIR-II) fluorescence imaging. Multi-wavelength photoacoustic microscopy imaged AD pathology at 532 nm (hemoglobin, vasculature), 559 nm (Aβ probe AOI987), and 780 nm (TREM2-ICG for peri‑plaque microglia). Time-resolved NIR-II imaging (30 frames/sec) tracked Aβ-oligomer-induced microglial displacement at ∼50 µm resolution, showing a rapid chemotaxis phenomenon. Immunofluorescence-verified TREM2-microglia plaque engagement demonstrates AD pathogenesis. Overall, our multiscale photoacoustic-fluorescence imaging resolved cortex-wide Aβ-microglial interactions, combining wide-field, high-speed, and deep-penetration to overcome confocal depth and two-photon field of view limits. This enabled in vivo tracking of microglial responses to Aβ, revealing potential for investigating AD-specific mechanisms.© 2026 The Authors.
Chronic inflammation is a key driver of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. Notably, anti-inflammatory therapies have demonstrated efficacy in reducing cardiac events. We previously reported that TREM2 (triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2) promotes foam cell formation in atherosclerosis. Elevated levels of soluble TREM2 (sTREM2) have been observed in the plasma of patients with atherosclerosis. This study sought to investigate the pathological role of sTREM2 in the progression of atherosclerosis, elucidate its underlying mechanistic pathways, and propose potential targeted therapeutic interventions.Plasma sTREM2 levels were measured in patients with carotid atherosclerosis and in apolipoprotein E-deficient (Apoe-/-) mice. To study the functional role of sTREM2, we administered recombinant sTREM2 to Apoe-/- mice and used macrophage-specific Hsp90ab1 knockout mice (Hsp90ab1Mac-KO). Mechanistic pathways were investigated using immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry, and surface plasmon resonance imaging was used to identify sTREM2 antagonists.Plasma sTREM2 levels correlated with atherosclerotic burden in both humans and mice. Exogenous sTREM2 administration exacerbated plaque progression in Apoe-/- mice, an effect abolished in Hsp90ab1Mac-KO mice. Mechanistically, sTREM2 binds to HSP90β (heat shock protein 90 beta), enhancing its interaction with the IKKs (IκB kinase complex), thereby activating the IκBα/NF-κB P65 pathway. This activation potentiates monocyte adhesion and chemotaxis and enhances macrophage inflammatory activation signatures in atherosclerotic lesions-effects that were reversed on myeloid-specific Hsp90ab1 deletion. Additionally, we identified 3-bromopyruvate as a small-molecule antagonist that selectively disrupts the sTREM2/HSP90β interaction and attenuates atherosclerosis.sTREM2 promotes proatherogenic myeloid recruitment and macrophage inflammatory activation via HSP90β-dependent NF-κB activation. Genetic and pharmacological approaches establish the sTREM2/HSP90β axis as a druggable target, with 3-bromopyruvate demonstrating translational potential for atherosclerosis therapy.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42500791 is a review article
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a prevalent degenerative joint disease with limited diagnostic biomarkers. Triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (TREM2) is a key regulator of inflammation and bone metabolism, but its role in OA remains unclear.Plasma and synovial fluid samples were collected from patients with OA and patients with joint trauma serving as controls. Levels of TREM2 and IL-6 were measured using RT-qPCR and ELISA. Correlation analyses were conducted to assess relationships among TREM2, IL-6, and clinical parameters. The diagnostic value of TREM2 was evaluated via receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis. Additionally, the role and regulatory mechanism of TREM2 were investigated in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced chondrocytes.TREM2 levels were significantly elevated in both plasma and synovial fluid of patients with OA and showed positive correlations with IL-6, Kellgren-Lawrence score and body mass index (BMI). ROC analysis revealed AUCs of 0.880 for plasma TREM2 and 0.869 for synovial fluid TREM2, with superior performance compared to IL-6 in the same cohort. Multivariate logistic regression confirmed that TREM2 remained independently associated with OA after adjusting for confounders (OR = 28.29, P = 0.006). In vitro, LPS treatment upregulated TREM2 expression in chondrocytes, which was associated with changes in cell proliferation, apoptosis, inflammatory cytokine release and oxidative stress, with preliminary evidence suggesting involvement of the NLRP3-mediated pyroptosis-associated pathway.Elevated TREM2 in plasma and synovial fluid represents a promising exploratory biomarker for OA. In vitro findings suggest that TREM2 may modulate chondrocyte functions in association with NLRP3 inflammasome-associated molecular pathways.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to International League of Associations for Rheumatology (ILAR).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42488212 is a review article
Porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV) is one of the important pathogens influencing global swine industry. PRRSV infection promotes the secretion and production of soluble triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (sTREM2) in plasma. Whether sTREM2 regulated PRRSV replication remains unknown. In this study, we expressed and purified sTREM2 exogenously, and found that sTREM2 restrained PRRSV replication in vitro. In terms of mechanism, sTREM2 could interact with PRRSV envelope protein GP2a, wherein S112/S116/T120 amino acid sites in sTREM2 were essential for their binding. The interaction between sTREM2 and PRRSV GP2a interfered PRRSV binding stage, thus inhibiting PRRSV replication. In addition, sTREM2 promoted the activation of NF-ĸB signaling pathway and elevated the expression of proinflammatory cytokines and type I interferons, ultimately suppressing PRRSV replication. Our study demonstrated that sTREM2 possessed strong inhibitory effects against PRRSV and had the potential value for clinical application.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a multifactorial neurodegenerative disorder associated with amyloid aggregation, tau pathology, and neuroinflammation. In this study, an integrated computational workflow combining ADMET prediction, PASS-based activity screening, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations was employed to evaluate the interactions of oleuropein with five AD-related protein targets, including β-amyloid, tau, apolipoprotein E4 (ApoE4), triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (TREM2), and complement protein C1q. ADMET and PASS analyses predicted pharmacokinetic properties and potential biological activities associated with neurodegenerative disease-related pathways. Docking analysis predicted favorable binding affinities across the investigated targets, with the strongest predicted interaction observed for the C1q protein (-7.5 kcal/mol). Molecular dynamics (MD) trajectory analyses, including root-mean-square deviation (RMSD), root-mean-square fluctuation (RMSF), radius of gyration (Rg), dynamic cross-correlation matrix (DCCM), principal component analysis (PCA), and distance-based metrics, were used to evaluate the dynamic behavior of the protein-ligand complexes during the simulations. The computational analyses suggested relatively stable interactions for tau, C1q, and TREM2 complexes, whereas β-amyloid and ApoE4 exhibited comparatively higher conformational variability during portions of the simulations. These findings provide a preliminary computational assessment of oleuropein interactions with AD-related proteins and may support future experimental studies investigating its potential biological relevance in neurodegenerative disease models.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42458498 is a review article
Rumen development shows clear spatial specificity, with distinct tissue morphology and proliferation patterns across regions. This heterogeneity likely results from region-specific transcriptional regulation. Identifying key genes and signaling pathways underlying these spatial differences is helpful for understanding the molecular basis of rumen development. This study investigated the morphological characteristics of different rumen regions in lambs, analyzed their associations with growth performance and fermentation parameters, and explored the underlying transcriptomic profiles. Histological observations revealed pronounced regional variation in rumen morphology. The ventral sac exhibited longer and denser papillae and a thicker keratinized layer than the blind sacs. Correlation analysis showed that papilla length and density were positively associated with growth performance traits such as body weight and average daily gain. Transcriptomic analysis revealed the highest number of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between the ventral and caudoventral blind sacs. Functional enrichment indicated that DEGs were enriched in focal adhesion, ErbB signaling, and cytoskeletal remodeling pathways. Members of the KLK family and other keratinization-related genes, together with ITGA, SHC, PAK3, and MAPK10, may coordinately regulate these pathways, contributing to the region-specific development of the rumen ventral sac. In conclusion, this study demonstrates distinct morphological and transcriptional patterns among rumen compartments, highlighting the ventral sac as the principal site for volatile fatty acid absorption and epithelial renewal. These findings provide new insights into the spatial regulation and molecular basis of rumen compartmental development.© 2026 Jia et al.
Acute kidney injury (AKI) is associated with central neurologic complications, notably in critical care, the mechanisms of which are poorly understood. Blood-brain barrier (BBB) disruption is a central mechanism associated with cognitive impairment in chronic kidney disease. The objectives of this study were to characterize the influence of AKI on brain alteration and BBB permeability in a preclinical model.We performed a mouse model of unilateral renal ischemia-reperfusion injury without or with AKI (obtained by removing the contralateral kidney before ischemia).All animals were 7-week-old male C57Bl/6J mice, randomly assigned to groups: AKI, kidney ischemia-reperfusion alone, or control.We assessed neurologic impairment using the modified neurologic severity score and motricity evaluations, quantified BBB disruption by cerebral extravasation of Evans blue and positron emission tomography (PET)/CT imaging with Gallium-68 diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid (68Ga-DTPA), and performed immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy on brain sections.In mice with AKI, we found neurologic impairment, decreased spontaneous motricity, and cerebral extravasation of Evans blue, which were not observed in mice with renal ischemia-reperfusion without nephrectomy. Cerebral 68Ga-DTPA PET/CT imaging with imaging confirmed the BBB disruption. In addition, we observed more extracellular vesicles in cerebral endothelial cells by electron microscopy in AKI mice compared with controls.AKI-induced neurologic complications are associated with an early increase in BBB permeability and transcytosis of extracellular vesicles in cerebral endothelium.Copyright © 2026 by the Society of Critical Care Medicine and Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Classic deficiency of interleukin-36 (IL-36) receptor antagonist (DITRA) is characterized by severe, recurrent generalized pustular psoriasis (GPP) with systemic inflammation and is typically caused by biallelic IL36RN variants. However, monoallelic c.115+6T>C and c.28C>T variants of IL36RN have also been reported to underlie DITRA. To the best of our knowledge, no cases of a heterozygous IL36RN c.28C>T variant presenting with the unilateral localization of symptoms have been reported. Our present case emphasize that IL36RN-related disease should be considered even with the atypical skin symptoms, thereby broadening the spectrum of DITRA.
To clarify the efficacy of Tuberose Polysaccharide (TPS) as a skin moisturizer and to elucidate its mechanism of action. TPS is known to form a long-lasting, smooth film that protects the stratum corneum (SC) from external stimuli.A 12-week randomized, double-blind, vehicle-controlled, split-face study was conducted using a lotion containing 0.08% TPS combined with an emulsion containing 0.10% TPS, compared to a placebo lotion and emulsion. Skin features, SC components and panelist awareness were evaluated. Additionally, 3D-culture epidermal models treated with 0.50% TPS or vehicle were analysed to determine cytokine levels in the medium and epidermal composition before and after exposure to sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS).The surface texture of the skin improved faster with TPS treatment compared to the placebo. The capacitance value of the skin increased more from the baseline only in the TPS-treated group. Panelists reported a significantly greater awareness of the efficacy and improvement with TPS compared to the placebo. Cytokine levels in the skin were lower, while intercellular lipids in the SC were higher in the TPS-treated sites compared to the baseline. The ratio of ceramide NP to NS was lower in the placebo-treated sites than in the baseline. Cytokine levels in the medium of the TPS film plus SDS-treated 3D epidermal model were lower than in the vehicle plus SDS-treated epidermal model.TPS supports normal epidermal keratinization by suppressing the cytokines release due to external stimuli by forming a long-lasting smooth film.© 2026 Kao Corporation. International Journal of Cosmetic Science published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Society of Cosmetic Scientists and the Société Française de Cosmétologie.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42551356 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42548141 is a review article
Oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) is a biologically heterogeneous disease with marked variability in clinical, radiographic, histological, and molecular behavior. Tumoral cellular differentiation and the degree of keratinization exhibited by the cells form the main criteria of the current histopathological grading system for OSCC. However, these provide a weak predictive value, because other histopathological characteristics utilized in other grading systems, such as invasion pattern, tumor budding, perineural and lymphovascular invasion, and tumor-stroma ratio have also been found to be independent predictors determining the diagnosis, as has tumoral behavior in a number of investigations over the last 10 years. This has been backed by the expression of certain molecular biomarkers, pertaining specifically to the lesion.The proposed 'integrated histologic-molecular scoring system' (IHMSS) incorporates key histopathological parameters - including tumor differentiation, depth of invasion, pattern of invasion, lymphovascular invasion, perineural invasion, and tumor budding - alongside molecular and immunohistochemical markers implicated in OSCC pathogenesis, tumor progression, and invasiveness. Each parameter is assigned a weighted score based on biological relevance and evidence from existing literature. Cumulative scores are used to stratify tumors into distinct risk categories. The system is designed to be applicable to routine formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue sections, and adaptable for both retrospective and prospective validation studies.The total histologic invasion scores ranged from 4 to 7. Based on predefined cutoffs, 33.3% of cases were classified as low risk, while 50% were categorized as intermediate risk; no cases fell into the high-risk group. Tumor budding, pattern of invasion, and cancer-associated fibroblast (CAF) density were the primary contributors to score variability, whereas perineural and lymphovascular invasion were absent in all cases. Notably, well-differentiated tumors demonstrated variable risk stratification, highlighting the added value of composite scoring over conventional grading.The IHMSS represents a novel, multidimensional classification approach that bridges histopathology and molecular oncology in OSCC. By incorporating tumor morphology and molecular alterations into a unified scoring model, the system addresses limitations of existing grading schemes and aligns with the principles of precision oncology. Validation through large-scale, multicentric studies is warranted to establish its prognostic and predictive utility.The proposed IHMSS has the potential to enhance individualized risk assessment, guide treatment planning, and optimize follow-up strategies in patients with OSCC. Its application may aid clinicians in identifying biologically aggressive tumors at an early stage, thereby improving therapeutic decision making and patient outcomes.Copyright © 2026 European Association for Cranio-Maxillo-Facial Surgery. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Epilepsy remains a major neurological disorder characterized by unpredictable seizures and cumulative comorbidities that even endure with standard pharmacotherapy. Conventional antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) are constrained by two interrelated barriers: limited brain penetration due to the blood-brain barrier (BBB), which necessitates high systemic dosing and peripheral toxicity, and a narrow mechanistic focus on neuronal ion channels and synaptic receptors. This neuron-centric view overlooks non-neuronal drivers, such as neuroinflammation and BBB dysfunction, that sustain epileptogenesis and contribute to drug resistance in roughly one-third of patients. Nanomedicine addresses these limitations through a fundamentally different approach. Leveraging the unique advantages of nanocarriers, including facile synthesis, surface modification, and receptor-mediated BBB transcytosis, nanoparticles have evolved from passive delivery vehicles into intelligent, multifunctional therapeutic platforms that actively engage with disease biology. In this Perspective, we first delineate the inherent limitations of conventional AEDs in target selection. We then highlight how emerging nanomedicines are expanding the therapeutic target repertoire to include key non-neuronal nodes, with a focus on neuroinflammation and BBB repair. Finally, we offer a forward-looking perspective on two emerging frontiers: modulation of metabolic dysregulation and the microbiota-gut-brain axis, as well as the development of theranostic nanoplatforms that integrate real-time seizure monitoring with closed-loop intervention. Through this discussion, we aim to inspire a reorientation of nanomedicine strategies toward precision therapy for epilepsy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42518684 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42511561 is a review article
Impaired amyloid-β clearance at the blood-brain barrier (BBB) contributes to Alzheimer's disease (AD), yet the regulation of endothelial transport processes under neuroinflammatory conditions remains incompletely understood. Here, we investigated the time-dependent effects of interleukin-1β (IL-1β), interleukin-6 (IL-6) classical signaling directly via the membrane-bound IL-6 receptor, and IL-6 trans-signaling via the IL-6 /soluble IL-6 receptor complex (IL-6/sIL-6r) on ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter activity and expression in primary porcine brain endothelial cells (PBECs), and assessed intracellular accumulation of amyloid-β(1-42). Cytokine exposure did not affect PBEC viability. IL-1β induced a robust, time-dependent increase in ABCB1 activity and expression, whereas IL-6 produced a transient enhancement that was not sustained at 72 h. In contrast, IL-6 trans-signaling elicited a delayed but sustained increase in ABCB1 function and expression. IL-1β increased ABCG2 activity and expression at early time points, while IL-6 and IL-6/sIL-6r had minimal effects. Notably, IL-1β and IL-6 trans-signaling increased ABCC5 activity without detectable changes in protein expression. Cytokine-induced transporter modulation was associated with reduced intracellular amyloid-β accumulation. Pharmacological inhibition of ABC transporters increased intracellular amyloid-β levels, supporting a role for these transporters in endothelial amyloid-β handling. However, as transendothelial amyloid-β transport was not directly assessed, these findings should be interpreted as changes in intracellular amyloid-β accumulation rather than direct evidence of altered BBB clearance. These findings demonstrate signaling- and time-dependent regulation of BBB ABC transporters and reveal distinct effects of IL-6 classical signaling and IL-6 trans-signaling on endothelial transporter regulation. Collectively, these results highlight signaling context as an important determinant of BBB transport responses under neuroinflammatory conditions.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42493106
Glymphatic dysfunction contributes to impaired clearance of neurotoxic proteins (e.g. Aβ) and AD progression. Low-intensity transcranial focused ultrasound (LITFUS) is a noninvasive mechanomodulation strategy that can enhance glymphatic CSF transport via acoustic radiation force. However, its therapeutic efficacy in promoting glymphatic Aβ clearance to alleviate cerebral amyloid burden and cognitive decline remains to be established. 5xFAD mice underwent bilateral hippocampal LITFUS for 4 weeks. Glymphatic transport was assessed using fluorescent tracers administered via intracisternal or intrahippocampal injection, followed by ex vivo imaging. Soluble Aβ levels in the deep cervical lymph nodes (dCLNs) were also measured to evaluate downstream drainage. Immunohistochemistry was used to assess Aβ1-42 deposition and Iba1 immunoreactivity, and cognitive function was evaluated using behavioral tests. Piezo1 involvement was examined using pharmacological inhibition with GsMTx4 together with qPCR and Western blot analyses of isolated brain vascular fractions. Safety was evaluated by blood-brain barrier permeability assays and H&E staining. Compared with sham treatment, LITFUS significantly increased brain-wide cerebrospinal fluid tracer influx and enhanced hippocampal interstitial solute transport in 5xFAD mice. LITFUS also increased soluble Aβ levels in the dCLNs, reduced Aβ deposition in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex, decreased Iba1 immunoreactivity, and improved learning and memory performance. These effects were accompanied by increased Piezo1 expression in isolated brain vascular fractions and enhanced CaMKII/eNOS signaling. Pharmacological inhibition with GsMTx4 attenuated the LITFUS-induced improvements in glymphatic transport, reduction of Aβ burden, and downstream signaling. LITFUS did not induce detectable blood-brain barrier disruption or histological injury. LITFUS noninvasively enhances glymphatic transport, reduces cerebral Aβ burden, and improves cognitive function in 5xFAD mice. The findings support a role for Piezo1-related mechanotransduction in mediating these effects and highlight the translational potential of LITFUS as a noninvasive therapeutic approach for AD.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42430077 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42426288 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42420256 is a review article
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia. Pleiotrophin (PTN) is a neurotrophic factor relevant for central nervous system repair, neuron differentiation and survival. It is upregulated in different neuroinflammatory conditions. PTN is an endogenous inhibitor of Receptor Protein Tyrosine Phosphatase (RPTP) β/ζ. In a previous study, we showed that a short treatment with the RPTPβ/ζ inhibitor MY10 reduced amyloid beta (Aβ) plaque formation and glial activation in old APP/PS1 mice. Nevertheless, these preliminary data required new studies to prove the disease-modifying potential of RPTPβ/ζ inhibition by using younger animals and a longer treatment with MY10. Thus, we have now treated for 3 months five- to seven-month-old wild type (WT) and APP/PS1 mice with MY10. This treatment decreased Aβ plaque formation and increased the number of microglial cells in the dorsal subiculum of APP/PS1 mice. In addition, MY10 reduced the number of GFAP+, not Iba1+, cells surrounding Aβ plaques. As expected, PTN expression was upregulated in the brain of APP/PS1 compared to WT mice and it was mainly found in Iba1+ and GFAP+ cells. Interestingly, treatment with MY10 significantly decreased the expression of PTN and the number of PTN-expressing Iba1+ and GFAP+ cells. MY10 induced a significant decrease of Mmp9 expression in the hippocampus of APP/PS1 mice, a key enzyme in AD progression. In summary, chronic inhibition of RPTPβ/ζ in APP/PS1 mice reduces Aβ plaque deposition, modulating glial-plaque interactions and the expression of specific genes including Ptn and its receptor.Copyright © 2026 Fontán-Baselga, Cañeque-Rufo, Rivera-Illades, Gramage, Zapico, de Pascual-Teresa, Ramos-Álvarez, Vicente-Rodríguez and Herradón.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42281255 is a review article
The pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease is characterized by aggregation of the amyloid-beta protein (Abeta) into neurotoxic plaques. Recent in vivo studies have suggested the non-proteolytic clearance of Abeta via receptor-mediated transport across the blood-brain barrier (BBB). The aim of this study was to investigate the role of P-glycoprotein (Pgp) and the low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein (LRP) in Abeta efflux across the BBB. We developed an in vitro BBB-like model using Madin-Darby Canine Kidney (MDCK) cells seeded on filters separating apical (blood) and basolateral (brain) compartments. MDCK cells were stably transfected with Pgp or mLRP4, an LRP mini-receptor. When compared to empty vector-transfected cells, MDCK-Pgp cells did not transcytose radiolabeled Abeta in the basolateral-to-apical direction. MDCK-mLRP4 cells were found to endocytose and degrade, but not to trasncytose intact radiolabeled Abeta. These results implicate LRP as a mediator of Abeta degradation, but indicate that overexpression of LRP or Pgp alone is insufficient for non-proteolytic transcytosis of intact Abeta.
Amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) deposition in cerebral vessels contributes to cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Here, we report that in AD patients and two mouse models of AD, overexpression of serum response factor (SRF) and myocardin (MYOCD) in cerebral vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) generates an Abeta non-clearing VSMC phenotype through transactivation of sterol regulatory element binding protein-2, which downregulates low density lipoprotein receptor-related protein-1, a key Abeta clearance receptor. Hypoxia stimulated SRF/MYOCD expression in human cerebral VSMCs and in animal models of AD. We suggest that SRF and MYOCD function as a transcriptional switch, controlling Abeta cerebrovascular clearance and progression of AD.
PICALM is a highly validated genetic risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD). We found that reduced expression of PICALM in AD and murine brain endothelium correlated with amyloid-β (Aβ) pathology and cognitive impairment. Moreover, Picalm deficiency diminished Aβ clearance across the murine blood-brain barrier (BBB) and accelerated Aβ pathology in a manner that was reversible by endothelial PICALM re-expression. Using human brain endothelial monolayers, we found that PICALM regulated PICALM/clathrin-dependent internalization of Aβ bound to the low density lipoprotein receptor related protein-1, a key Aβ clearance receptor, and guided Aβ trafficking to Rab5 and Rab11, leading to Aβ endothelial transcytosis and clearance. PICALM levels and Aβ clearance were reduced in AD-derived endothelial monolayers, which was reversible by adenoviral-mediated PICALM transfer. Inducible pluripotent stem cell-derived human endothelial cells carrying the rs3851179 protective allele exhibited higher PICALM levels and enhanced Aβ clearance. Thus, PICALM regulates Aβ BBB transcytosis and clearance, which has implications for Aβ brain homeostasis and clearance therapy.
