Interferons can trigger robust anti-tumor responses following immune checkpoint blockade (ICB). However, chronic interferon signaling can also reshape tumor cell phenotypes, selecting for immune evasion mechanisms that drive resistance. In a cohort of 108 metastatic melanoma samples collected prior to first-line ICB, immune infiltration and bulk interferon gamma (IFNG) expression correlate with initial but not durable responses. Using a regression-based approach to deconvolve cancer cell signals from bulk tumors, we find that tumors from patients who initially respond but later acquire resistance exhibit heightened cancer cell-dependent IFN signaling at baseline, accompanied by MYC downregulation, dedifferentiation, and impaired major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II induction. Genetically, acquired resistance also associates with reduced T cell interferon signaling, lower memory T cell activity, high tumor mutational burden, clonal diversification, and elevated subclonal neoantigen burden. These findings reveal baseline transcriptomic and genetic features distinguishing acquired resistance from durable ICB response, identifying candidate targets to prevent relapse and refine stratification.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
SIRT3, a key mitochondrial deacetylase that regulates metabolic adaptation, oxidative stress, and apoptosis in cancer cells, has emerged as a promising therapeutic target in cancer treatment. 4,4'-dimethoxychalcone (DMC) is a natural chalcone derivative extracted from Angelica keiskei. In this study, we demonstrated that DMC induces thermosensitive impairment in SIRT3-associated mitochondrial signaling. A non-lethal temperature (42 °C) facilitates the interaction between DMC and the catalytic pocket of SIRT3, leading to preferential suppression of SIRT3 activity and consequently sensitizing HeLa cells to robust apoptotic signaling. This inhibition was accompanied by increased SOD2 acetylation and reduced SOD2 abundance, driving accumulation of oxidative stress, which triggers loss of mitochondrial membrane potential (ΔΨm), and pronounced caspase activation. Concomitantly, γ-H2AX nuclear foci formation and dual-phase cell-cycle arrest at the G1/S and G2/M checkpoints were associated with activation of p53/p21 and ATM/Chk2 signaling. In addition, cell migratory capacity was significantly impaired, as evidenced by reduced expression of MMP2 and MMP9. Notably, this inhibition impairs autophagic and mitophagic flux as well as lysosomal function, thereby preventing cytoprotective responses and facilitating cell death. Importantly, enforced SIRT3 overexpression reverses these effects, restores mitochondrial function, reactivates autophagic activity, and attenuates apoptotic cell death. Collectively, our findings identify DMC as a thermosensitive inhibitor of SIRT3 and provide mechanistic insights into its potential to disrupt mitochondrial homeostasis for targeted cancer therapy.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Swine enteric coronaviruses (CoVs) are causes of enteric disease in pigs, characterised by acute watery diarrhoea, more severe in piglets under 7 days of age. Small non-coding RNAs (miRNAs) have been implicated in the regulation of host immune responses during viral infections; however, their involvement in the intestinal response to CoVs infection and reinfection remains poorly understood. For this purpose, 48 four-week-old, weaned piglets were allocated into four experimental groups (n = 12). Groups B, C, and D were orally inoculated with PEDV, SeCoV, or rPEDV-SeCoV strain, respectively, while group A (control) received sterile buffer. Twenty days later, all groups were challenged with rPEDV-SeCoV strain. Clinical signs, growth performance, intestinal viral load, intestinal histomorphometry, and the expression of selected miRNAs and immune-related genes were analysed in duodenum and jejunum. Primary infection was associated with higher viral load, reduced villus height, and decreased average daily gain (ADG), whereas rechallenge resulted in lower viral load, reduced intestinal damage and limited impact on growth performance. At the molecular level, miR-124, miR-146, miR-223, and miR-27b tended to increase following rechallenge, in line with their previously described immunomodulatory functions, whereas miR-15b and miR-155 were associated with IFNG induction, suggesting an association with IFNG-related antiviral responses. These miRNA patterns were accompanied by IL8 expression dynamics, highlighting their involvement in the inflammatory response. Overall, these findings provide new insights into the intestinal immune responses to CoVs infection and reinfection and highlight the involvement of miRNA-mediated regulatory networks in shaping host responses to enteric coronavirus infection in pigs.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Nicotinamide (NAM), a precursor for nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+), is widely used as a supplement during different cells culturing. Although its antioxidative and anti-apoptotic properties, the specific effects on bovine embryo quality and implantation potential remain partly explored. The current study aimed to investigate the impact of NAM on developmental competence and quality of bovine embryos, focusing on cell apoptosis, survival, and trophoblast invasion. NAM was treated during in vitro maturation (IVM) and late-stage embryo culture (IVC3; the morula stage embryo), the cleavage and blastocyst formation rates were evaluated on Days 4 and 8 post-fertilization, respectively. Underlying mechanisms affecting embryo quality and invasion potential were examined in developed blastocysts using RT-qPCR, immunofluorescence, reactive oxygen species (ROS) measurement, TUNEL and trophoblast invasion assays. Results showed that the cleavage and blastocyst formation rates were significantly increased in the NAM-treated group relative to controls (83.62 ± 1.38% vs. 80.08 ± 0.52%, and 37.54 ± 1.15% vs. 28.74 ± 0.70%, respectively). Additionally, the in vitro-developed embryos supplemented with NAM during IVM and IVC3 exhibited lower levels of ROS and mRNA of caspase-3, and higher mRNA levels of the survival genes SOD1 and SOD2. Similarly, the DNA fragmentation rate was lower, and the total cell counts and inner cell mass to trophectoderm (ICM:TE) ratios were higher in embryos supplemented with NAM compared to untreated embryos. Furthermore, the MMP2 and MMP9 protein expression and trophoblast invasion rate of blastocysts treated with NAM were enhanced. These findings highlight the potential role of NAM in improving bovine embryo quality and enhancing trophoblast invasive capacity, thereby suggesting an improved implantation potential.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The immunomodulatory effects of platelet-derived microparticles (PMPs) on host innate immunity remain incompletely understood. In this study, we established a clinically relevant in vitro model using PMPs from stored platelets to investigate their effects on NK cell function. PMPs were isolated from platelets of 3 healthy donors, and co-cultured with PBMCs or primary NK cells from 18 healthy donors. Their effects on NK cell activation, cytotoxic function, and IFN-γ secretion were assessed by flow cytometry. qRT-PCR was performed to detect the mRNA expression of four key NK functional genes (IFNG, GZMB, PRF1 and FOXO1). High-throughput small RNA sequencing coupled with bioinformatic analysis was applied to screen PMP-derived miRNAs, and miR-223-3p was identified as a candidate functional mediator. We further conducted ex vivo validation of this effect using PBMCs from 12 sepsis patients. PMPs accumulating to estimated transfusion-relevant concentrations in stored platelets modulate NK cell activation, IFN-γ production, cytotoxic molecule expression and K562 cell killing in a concentration-dependent manner. Transcriptional detection results suggest that the downregulation of cytotoxic effector proteins induced by PMPs may be predominantly regulated by post-transcriptional pathways, which are possibly mediated by miR-223-3p. Our findings identify a potential pathway by which PMPs accumulating during platelet storage may contribute to transfusion-related immunomodulation, offering a preliminary mechanistic framework. Notably, the results of our ex vivo validation using samples from sepsis patients provide a foundation for the hypothesis that PMP-mediated NK cell modulation may contribute to immune dysregulation in clinical scenarios, such as sepsis, where platelet transfusions are common.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a valuable non-human primate model organism with a long history of use in biomedical research, including investigating diseases with an immune component. However, prior to this effort, there has been a lack of sufficiently validated tools to quantify inflammatory markers in the common marmoset using a multiplex approach. We provide a cross-species reactivity validation of a human-specific multiplex analysis strategy that allows for the assessment of 20 distinct inflammatory analytes in a small volume of plasma isolated from common marmoset blood. We used this novel approach to perform an assessment of the impact of sex as a biological variable on a subset of these inflammatory analytes. We found that endogenous plasma levels of the following analytes are not significantly different between female and male marmosets: CRP, ICAM-1, VCAM-1, IL-13, IL-8, MIP-1β, IFN-g, IL-4, VEGF-A, FLT-1, and bFGF. These findings demonstrate the utility of our validated method for quantifying marmoset inflammatory markers.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Long-term use of glucocorticoids, such as dexamethasone, often leads to glucocorticoid-induced muscle atrophy (GIMA), a condition associated with mitochondrial oxidative stress and abnormal activation of protein degradation pathways. Histone deacetylase 6 (HDAC6) is involved in cellular stress regulation, but its role in GIMA remains unclear. We investigated the protective effects of HDAC6 inhibition/loss-of-function against dexamethasone-induced muscle atrophy and its potential molecular mechanisms.Using Hdac6 knockout (KO) mice and C2C12 myotube models, combined with the HDAC6-selective inhibitor ACY-1215, we evaluated the phenotype of dexamethasone-induced muscle atrophy. We performed transcriptomic sequencing, Western blotting, immunofluorescence assays, and measured oxidative stress markers including reactive oxygen species (ROS), malondialdehyde (MDA), and the reduced glutathione to oxidized glutathione disulfide ratio (GSH/GSSG). Mitochondria-specific parameters, including mitochondrial superoxide (MitoSOX), mitochondrial membrane potential (MT-1 and JC-1), mitochondrial biogenesis markers (PGC-1α and TFAM), and antioxidant enzymes (SOD2, GPx1, and GPx4), were assessed. To investigate the regulatory mechanism, we assessed Ucp3 mRNA abundance and UCP3 protein stability. We also performed UCP3 knockdown and overexpression experiments in C2C12 myotubes to determine the functional contribution of UCP3 to the protective effects of HDAC6 loss or inhibition.Hdac6 knockout or HDAC6 inhibition significantly attenuated dexamethasone-induced muscle atrophy, as evidenced by increased grip strength, restored muscle mass, enlarged muscle fiber diameter, and downregulated MuRF1/Atrogin-1 expression in mice. RNA-seq analysis identified DEX-responsive changes in redox-related pathways in Hdac6-deficient skeletal muscle, with Ucp3 among the DEX-responsive genes. Mechanistically, HDAC6 knockdown increased Ucp3 mRNA abundance without detectably altering UCP3 protein stability. This was accompanied by reduced mitochondrial superoxide, restored mitochondrial membrane potential, and increased expression of mitochondrial biogenesis markers and antioxidant enzymes. Importantly, UCP3 overexpression in C2C12 myotubes, without HDAC6 manipulation, was sufficient to attenuate dexamethasone-induced myotube atrophy. Functional rescue experiments showed that UCP3 knockdown reversed the antioxidant and anti-atrophic effects of HDAC6 knockdown. ACY-1215 attenuated dexamethasone-induced muscle atrophy in both mice and C2C12 myotubes. In C2C12 myotubes, UCP3 knockdown abolished the antioxidant and anti-atrophic effects of ACY-1215, demonstrating UCP3 dependence in the in vitro model.This study identifies UCP3-associated redox homeostasis as an important downstream mechanism linking HDAC6 inhibition to protection against dexamethasone-induced muscle atrophy. In C2C12 myotubes, UCP3 was required for the protective effects of HDAC6 knockdown and ACY-1215, whereas UCP3 overexpression was sufficient to attenuate dexamethasone-induced myotube atrophy. ACY-1215 also alleviated dexamethasone-induced muscle atrophy in mice, although the UCP3 dependence of this in vivo effect remains to be determined.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Chronic stress is increasingly recognized as a driver of cancer metabolism, highlighting the need to elucidate the mechanism linking chronic stress to metabolic reprogramming. Here, we performed untargeted metabolomics on serum samples from esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) patients and integrated the results with clinical and stress-related assessments, revealing pentose phosphate pathway (PPP) enrichment accompanied by elevated epinephrine levels in patients with stress-associated features. β2-adrenergic receptor (ADRB2) activated by chronic stress stabilized MYCBP by competitively displacing VHL, thereby enhancing MYC transcriptional activity and upregulating key PPP enzymes, including G6PD and TKT. Unexpectedly, stress-associated stimulation not only activated ADRB2 signaling but also increased ADRB2 protein abundance. Mechanistically, stress exposure enhanced RNMT-dependent N7-methylguanosine (m7G) cap modification of ADRB2 mRNA, thereby increasing its translational efficiency. Together, these findings define an RNMT-ADRB2-MYCBP-PPP axis that integrates epitranscriptomic regulation with adrenergic signaling to promote metabolic reprogramming and malignant progression in ESCC. The stress-associated RNA modification-metabolism circuitry comprises potential therapeutic targets to overcome stress-associated ESCC progression.
Lifestyle habits, cognitive reserve, and affective reserve (secure attachment, extraversion, psychological resilience) predict resilience in the oldest-old, though the underlying biological mechanisms remain unclear. This study explored relationships between these protective factors, 120 + NULISA CNS blood biomarkers, and multidimensional health outcomes (global cognition, mental health, walking speed) in 401 dementia-free participants (age 83-87) from the InveCe.Ab study. Using sparse partial least squares (sPLS) regression, eight biomarkers were stably associated with the protective factors: HBA1, DDC, IFNG, IL15, GOT1, ACHE, SNAP25, and SNCB. Structural equation modeling (SEM) showed that the three protective factors exerted an independent and domain-specific effect on health outcomes. Moreover, lifestyle habits were associated with ACHE (β = 0.26), IL15 (β = 0.22), and GOT1 (β = 0.28); affective reserve showed inverse associations with IFNG (β = -0.13) and IL15 (β = -0.31), and GOT1 (β = -0.18). Regarding health domains, SNAP25 was inversely related to global cognition (β = -0.10), while SNCB was associated with global cognition (β = 0.16) and walking speed (β = 0.13). Notably, no significant mediated effects were found, suggesting that the clinical benefits observed were not directly driven by the aforementioned biological pathways. The present study paves the way for further investigations on the biological mechanisms underlying resilient aging, while further demonstrating the key protective role of individual habits and psychosocial characteristics during the life course.© 2026. The Author(s).
Mitochondrial dysfunction is a critical early driver of endothelial injury in atherogenesis. Natural plant-derived products targeting mitochondrial quality control represent a promising therapeutic approach, yet their mechanisms in oxidized LDL (ox-LDL)-induced endothelial damage remain underexplored.We evaluated ethanolic extracts from Rosmarinus officinalis, Cynara cardunculus, and Myrtus communis on ox-LDL-induced mitochondrial damage in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). Cell viability (MTT), proliferation (acridine orange staining), and mitochondrial membrane potential (Δψm; Rhodamine 6G) were assessed across therapeutic-equivalent concentrations (×0.1-×100). In a pathophysiologically relevant ox-LDL model (80 μg/mL, 48 h), RT-qPCR analyzed expression of genes regulating mitochondrial dynamics (DRP1, FIS1, MFF, MFN2, OPA1), mitophagy (PINK1, PARKIN, FUNDC1, OPTN, SQSTM1/p62), and antioxidant defense (CAT).All three extracts preserved Δψm and mitochondrial network architecture in healthy HUVECs in a dose-dependent manner. In the ox-LDL model, extracts reversed the pro-fission transcriptional shift by downregulating DRP1, FIS1, and MFF while restoring MFN2 and OPA1 expression (p < 0.05-0.001). C. cardunculus robustly upregulated PINK1 and PARKIN, indicating enhanced ubiquitin-dependent mitophagy, whereas R. officinalis and M. communis preferentially increased FUNDC1 and OPTN, suggesting receptor-mediated clearance pathways. Extract treatment concurrently upregulated endogenous antioxidant enzymes (CAT), suppressed pro-inflammatory MAPK8 (JNK).Polyphenol-rich herbal extracts protect endothelial cells from ox-LDL-induced injury by rebalancing mitochondrial fission/fusion dynamics, activating complementary mitophagy pathways, and fortifying antioxidant defenses. These findings support the potential of standardized herbal formulations as targeted adjunctive strategies for early atherosclerosis prevention through mitochondrial quality control.© 2026 Dzampaeva and Saveljev.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42546819 is a review article
Background and objective Antipsychotic-associated metabolic abnormalities, including weight gain, dyslipidemia, hyperglycemia, obesity, and metabolic syndrome, vary among drugs. Receptor pharmacology offers mechanistic clues, while transcriptome-wide association studies identify genetically regulated expression signals linked to lipid traits. These evidence streams are usually evaluated separately. This secondary computational sensitivity analysis used previously generated Ki-DDD-TWAS outputs and was not a primary discovery or clinical validation study. The primary hypothesis was that removing literature-derived metabolic receptor weights would preserve overall drug ranking, with Spearman ρ approximately 0.9, while shifting receptor-level contributions from histaminergic and serotonergic systems toward dopaminergic and low-prior TWAS signals. Secondary objectives were to identify low-weight genes with strong TWAS signals, assess discordance with an author-defined clinical-liability comparator, and test sensitivity to gene removal and TWAS scaling. Methods Previously generated outputs were analyzed. Ki, the inhibition constant, and DDD, the defined daily dose, served as affinity and exposure-proxy inputs. Receptor-level and per-drug risk-score files were analyzed for 52 antipsychotics across LDL, HDL, log-transformed triglycerides, non-HDL, and total cholesterol. Analyses included reconstruction validation, pooled receptor contributions, TWAS signal versus literature weight, clinical-liability discordance, leave-one-gene-out and TWAS-scaling sensitivity, and receptor co-occurrence in high-risk drug sets. No patient-level data, independent TWAS resources, longitudinal outcomes, or outcome-based validation were used. Results Reconstruction reproduced saved risk ranks with Spearman correlation 1.000 for all 10 mode-trait combinations. V4 rankings remained concordant after removing literature weights, with trait-specific correlations of 0.900-0.923 and a mean of 0.913. The weighted model was dominated by HRH1, HTR2A, and HTR2C, contributing 25.7%, 21.6%, and 10.3% of pooled signal. Under uniform weighting, DRD2, DRD3, and HTR2A led, accounting for 22.1%, 12.9%, and 12.6%. ADRB1 was the strongest high-priority low-weight TWAS candidate, with an absolute HDL z-score of 13.53 and literature weight of 0.08. Other candidates included CHRM4, DRD2, DRD4, SLC6A4, and ADRB2. The model most strongly under-ranked paliperidone versus the supplied 12-drug comparator, while ziprasidone rose under uniform weighting. Removing HRH1 produced the largest rank shifts, particularly for levomepromazine, promazine, and acepromazine. Conclusions Removing literature-derived weights preserved overall drug ranking but substantially changed receptor-level score allocation. The weighted model emphasized histaminergic and serotonergic receptors prioritized in metabolic-liability literature, whereas the uniform model revealed broader dopaminergic and low-prior contributions. ADRB1 is a computational hypothesis-generating candidate, not a confirmed mechanism or established metabolic-risk contributor. HDL-association direction was not analyzed. The framework supports dual reporting of clinically anchored weighted and discovery-oriented uniform models as an internal sensitivity strategy only. It is not externally validated, does not predict patient-level outcomes, and should not be interpreted as estimating clinical metabolic risk or establishing receptor-level causality.Copyright © 2026, Cheung et al.
Natural products are a valuable source of antihypertensive agents; however, most studies have focused on multitarget effects or extract-level activity, limiting mechanism-specific interpretation and drug development. Here, a structure-driven screening strategy was applied to identify phytochemicals targeting CACNA1C, ADRB1, and AGTR1, key pharmacological targets of antihypertensive therapy. Quantitative structure-activity relationship models were developed using ChEMBL datasets (11,452 for CACNA1C, 612 for ADRB1, and 291 for AGTR1) and demonstrated robust predictive performance (AUC = 0.973), which was maintained under scaffold split and cross-validation. The SHAP-based interpretation revealed target-specific structural features, followed by pharmacophore profiling, chemical space analysis, and network-based prioritization. Overall, 10,586 natural compounds were screened and the top 5% per target (530 compound-target edges) were selected, revealing that 83.5% of the compounds were target-specific. Chemical space analysis revealed the predicted compounds occupied diverse and partially orthogonal regions compared with approved drugs, indicating scaffold diversification. Representative compounds selected based on docking, ADMET, and structural criteria predicted to form stable binding interactions in 100 ns molecular dynamics simulations, with consistent RMSD stabilization and favorable MM-PBSA binding free energies (-29.17 to -36.59 kJ/mol). Although source plants have reported antihypertensive effects, direct evidence in the literature linking individual compounds to specific pharmacological targets remains limited. Overall, this study presents a multilayer validation framework for the computational prioritization of antihypertensive phytochemicals, facilitating their potential integration of natural products into established pharmacological paradigms. This approach provides a strategy for prioritizing structurally diverse and computationally target-aligned candidates and may facilitate the translation of traditional herbal knowledge into modern target-based drug discovery.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Longstanding observational work has associated Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease (NAFLD) with hypertension and suggested that antihypertensive therapy may slow NAFLD progression. However, confounding and reverse causation in these studies obscure the effects on the risk for NAFLD. To tackle this problem, the study utilized Mendelian randomization (MR) to test the causal antihypertensive effects of drug targets on NAFLD and to evaluate safety.A total of 37 antihypertensive drug targets from genome-wide association studies (GWAS) were used to instrument Single-Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) and perform MR to estimate causal relationships with NAFLD risk and possible adverse outcomes. The study examined robustness through heterogeneity tests, assessments of horizontal pleiotropy, leave-one-out analyses, and meta-analysis. Meanwhile, the study profiled possible side effects of prioritised targets with phenome-wide association studies (PheWAS).Genetic proxies for beta-1 adrenergic receptor (ADRB1) antagonists, solute carrier family 12 member 1 (SLC12A1) inhibitors, and neuraminidase 1 (NEU1) inhibitors were associated with reduced NAFLD risk in three distinct analyses, according to MR and meta-analysis data. Combining MR and PheWAS results indicates that the known classes, ADRB1 antagonists and SLC12A1 inhibitors, may be safer.Compared with previous studies, this study provided a more comprehensive genetic analysis of existing antihypertensive drug targets, suggesting that inhibition of ADRB1, SLC12A1, and NEU1 can significantly reduce the risk of NAFLD while assessing their safety. Based on the results of this study, future clinical translation must carefully balance the benefits and risks and achieve precise intervention through an individualized medication strategy.This study, according to current knowledge, offers the first genetic evidence that antihypertensive drugs can lower NAFLD risk. ADRB1 and SLC12A1 appear to be promising therapeutic targets for NAFLD, whereas NEU1 inhibition warrants a more cautious appraisal to balance efficacy with safety.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Adaptations in subcutaneous adipose tissue (SAT) metabolism may contribute to cardiometabolic health improvements in response to exercise training, especially during aging. Here we investigated the potential effects of long- and short-term exercise on adipogenesis and lipid metabolism in adipose tissue of older women (age 61-80 years). The effects of long-term (> 5 years) physical activity and short-term (4 months) exercise training were evaluated, with a focus on adipocyte size, adipogenic capacity, gene expression related to lipolysis, lipogenesis, and peroxisomal β-oxidation, along with lipidomic and proteomic analysis.The difference between long-term physically active/physically fit (Trained) and less physically active (Sedentary) older women was analyzed in cross-sectional study (Sedentary, n = 29: age 72 ± 4 yrs, BMI 25.9 ± 2.6 kg/m2; Trainedn = 28: age 69 ± 4 yrs, BMI 25.1 ± 2.3 kg/m2). The effect of short-term exercise training (ET) was observed during 4-months of combined ET in group of 23 women (age 70 ± 4 yrs, BMI 27.2 ± 4.1 kg/m2).Both physical activity durations were associated with reduced adipocyte hypertrophy, which was driven by changes in adiposity. No significant changes in adipose capacity to differentiate was observed. Long-term physical activity increased mRNA expression of β-adrenergic receptors (ADRB1, ADRB2) and elevated very-long chain fatty acid (VLC-FA) levels, correlating positively with cardiorespiratory fitness (VO2, peak). Altogether, these findings suggest novel hypotheses regarding SAT metabolic adaptations that may support metabolic health in older women, warranting further investigation in larger cohorts.New & noteworthyOur study reveals that SAT adipogenic capacity remains largely unaffected by physical activity in older women. However, the observed link between elevated β-adrenergic receptor expression, VLC-FA levels, and fitness suggests potential adipose tissue-specific adaptations that might mediate the positive effects of exercise in older age.© 2026. The Author(s).
Antihypertensive drug targets are associated with various cancers, but their relationship with clear cell renal cell carcinoma (CCRCC) risk remains unclear.Summary-data-based Mendelian randomization (SMR) and colocalization analyses were performed. Four antihypertensive drug targets (ACE, ADRB1, ADRB2, and SLC12A3) and CCRCC were included. Patients with CCRCC were identified from two large GWAS databases, including 752,817 and 315,137 individuals (Finnish cohorts), for the discovery and external validation analyses, respectively. Meta-analysis was conducted to integrate the results from both cohorts. Western blotting and prognostic analyses of tumor survival revealed the relationship between ADRB1 and CCRCC.ADRB1 was associated with CCRCC risk in both the discovery and validation cohorts (odds ratio (OR): 1.097, per standard deviation unit (SD) change in antihypertensive drug target perturbation equivalent to 1 SD unit of decreased blood pressure; 95% confidence interval (95% CI): 1.063-1.132; P-value = 0.016) vs. OR: 1.284; 95% CI: 1.014-1.627; P-value = 0.013). ADRB2 was associated with CCRCC risk in discovery cohort (OR: 1.224; 95% CI: 1.045-1.433; P-value = 0.019). Integrated outcomes demonstrated that both ADRB1 (OR: 1.100; 95% CI: 1.066-1.135; P-value<0.0001) and ADRB2 (OR: 1.313; 95% CI: 1.137-1.517; P-value = 0.0002) were associated with CCRCC risk. Colocalization analyses indicated that ADRB1 (PP4 = 0.996) and ADRB2 (PP4 = 0.895) shared the same region of genetic variation with CCRCC. Furthermore, ADRB1 was highly expressed in CCRCC tumor tissues and was associated with poor tumor survival and prognosis.ADRB1 was associated with the risk of CCRCC, providing additional perspectives into potential treatment strategies for CCRCC.Copyright © 2026 Zhu, Lin, Yu and Huang.
To investigate the association between β1-adrenergic receptor (ADRB1) polymorphisms on cardiovascular events in patients treated with metoprolol after acute myocardial infarction (AMI).Patients hospitalized for AMI (n = 1584) who were treated with metoprolol at discharge were genotyped for the ADRB1 variants Arg389Gly and Ser49Gly. The association between the ADRB1 variants and major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) and cardiovascular death were assessed by the Cox proportional hazards model, using both a dominant and a codominant genetic model, as well as by haplotype copy number.After three years of follow-up, MACE occurred in 105 and cardiovascular death in 47 patients. Gly389 homozygotes (n = 105, 11 events; hazard ratio [HR] 2.02 [1.01, 4.02], p = 0.046), but not heterozygotes (n = 588, 45 events, HR 1.40 [0.90, 2.13], p = 0.12) were at increased risk of MACE, compared with Arg389 homozygotes (n = 891, 49 events). The risk was not significantly different when all Gly389 carriers were merged (p = 0.052). No primary events occurred in Gly49 homozygotes (n = 28); however, when merged with Gly49 heterozygous carriers (n = 383, 6 events) we found a numerical, but not statistically significant difference in cardiovascular deaths relative to Ser49 homozygotes (n = 1173, 41 events) (p = 0.07). The Arg389Ser49 haplotype was not associated with a primary outcome.In post-AMI patients treated with metoprolol, Gly389 homozygotes, but not heterozygotes were associated with an increased risk of MACE compared with Arg389 homozygotes. Our observations raise the possibility of a protective association of the Gly49 variant on cardiovascular death, but this hypothesis requires validation in larger, future studies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Hypertension during pregnancy is a major cause of maternal and neonatal morbidity and mortality, yet the efficacy and safety of antihypertensive treatments in this setting remain uncertain. We evaluated the effects of antihypertensive drug targets on adverse pregnancy-related outcomes using genetic variants to instrument target perturbation.We performed drug target Mendelian randomization to mimic pharmacological perturbation of targets from six commonly used antihypertensive drug classes, using data from up to 671,922 pregnant women. Genetic variants near drug target genes associated with systolic or diastolic blood pressure were selected as instruments. We estimated effects of target modulation on six primary and eight secondary pregnancy outcomes.Genetically instrumented downregulation of blood pressure through β-blocker (BB) and calcium-channel blocker (CCB) targets, particularly ADRB1 and CACNB2, was associated with a reduced risk of hypertensive disorders of pregnancy, including preeclampsia. For example, CACNB2-instrumented lowering corresponded to a 7% (95% CI: 5-9%) reduction in preeclampsia risk per 1 mmHg decrease in blood pressure. For most of the other targets, estimates were directionally consistent but imprecise. Across additional outcomes, effects varied by target, with suggestive evidence for reduced risks of miscarriage, preterm birth, small-for-gestational age birth, and labour induction, although these estimates were accompanied by substantial uncertainty.These findings support a protective effect of BB and CCB targets on hypertensive disorders of pregnancy and highlight potential target-specific differences in safety. This work illustrates the value of Mendelian randomization in addressing clinical uncertainties where robust trial evidence is limited.
Cylindrospermopsin (CDN) is a highly toxic secondary metabolite of cyanobacteria that is reported to induce severe organ toxicity. The current investigation was conducted to explore cardiotoxic potential of CDN in a dose-dependent manner. Thirty-two Sprague Dawley rats were apportioned into control, CDN low dose (0.105 μg/kg) group, CDN (0.140 μg/kg) moderate dose group, and CDN high dose (0.175 μg/kg) treated group through oral route. CDN administration induced severe disruption of sympathetic β-adrenergic pathway via suppressing the expression of cAMP responsive element-binding protein 1 (CREB1), guanine nucleotide-binding protein (GNAS), Protein Kinase CAMP-Activated Catalytic Subunit Alpha (PRKACA), β1-adrenoceptor (ADRB1)/β2-adrenoceptor (ADRB2) while upregulating the expression of phospholamban (PLN) at all the tested doses. Besides, CDN intoxication reduced HR while escalating IVSd, IVSs, PWd, PWs, LVIDd, ESV, EDV and LVIDs in a dose-response manner. The catalytic activities of HO-1, GPx, SOD, GSR, CAT, and GST were suppressed while the levels of MDA and ROS were augmented following the exposure to CDN. Additionally, CDN administration upregulated the levels of CK-MB, LDH, CRP, CPK, Troponin (I and T), and BNP. Cardiac tissues exhibited elevated levels of COX-2, NF-κB, IL-6, IL-1β, and TNF-α in a dose-dependent manner. Moreover, CDN exposure induced severe myocardial disruptions including vascular congestion, myofibrillar degeneration, cytoplasmic vacuolization, extensive fibers disarray, and a high rate of inflammatory cells infiltration. These findings highlight the cardiotoxic potential of CDN at all the tested doses thereby warranting further clinical investigation to elucidate these impacts in humans.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Keloids represent a paradigm of fibroproliferative disorders marked by abnormal extracellular matrix deposition, yet the neuronal-stromal interactions driving fibroblast dysregulation remain poorly understood. Through single-cell RNA sequencing of human keloid specimens, we identify RUNX family transcription factor 2 (RUNX2)+ osteogenic fibroblasts exhibiting ectopic integrin-binding sialoprotein (IBSP) deposition, consistent with a hybrid fibro-osseous reprogramming. Keloid fibroblasts display catecholamine response signatures, correlating with excessive tyrosine hydroxylase-positive adrenergic innervation in keloid stroma. Crucially, β1-adrenergic receptor (ADRB1) activation by epinephrine/norepinephrine induces IBSP production exclusively in keloid-derived fibroblasts via canonical cAMP-PKA-CREB signaling. Through detailed mechanistic analysis, we demonstrate that CREB-activated Translin (TSN) facilitates nuclear-to-cytoplasmic IBSP mRNA transport, enabling efficient translation in RUNX2+ fibroblasts. Therapeutic interventions targeting catecholamine biosynthesis or adrenergic innervation, and pharmacological inhibition or genetic ablation of ADRB1 effectively prevent keloid-like pathology in a rodent model. Our study provides the demonstration of neuronal-adrenergic signaling driving fibrotic/osteogenic matrix overproduction through TSN-mediated RNA trafficking, revealing therapeutic targets for keloid management.© 2026. The Author(s).
Dysregulated calpains and cathepsins contribute to adverse cardiac remodeling following chronic pathological stress, but their interplay and the specific contributions of the classical calpain isoforms remain undefined. Here, we tested whether calpain-2 initiates a lysosome-cathepsin proteolytic axis that promotes pathological hypertrophy through mTORC1-dependent signaling.Calpain expression was analyzed in septal myocardium from patients with aortic stenosis and mice subjected to transverse aortic constriction (TAC). Calpain activity was modulated genetically by Capns1 deletion or pharmacologically with the calpain-2 inhibitor NA-184 in TAC mice. Cathepsins were inhibited with balicatib. In vitro, Capn2 was silenced by siRNA in H9c2 cardiomyoblasts stimulated with angiotensin II.TAC upregulated myocardial calpain-2 expression, which correlated with hypertrophy severity in septal tissue from patients. TAC induced lysosomal membrane permeabilization, evidenced by reduced cathepsin B-lysosome colocalization, and increased cytosolic cathepsin accumulation and activity. Mechanistically, calpain-2 cleaved the lysosomal protein LAMP2, generating a ~ 55 kDa fragment. Both Capns1 deletion and NA-184 preserved LAMP2 and lysosomal integrity, reduced autophagic dysregulation and the activation of the AKT/mTOR signaling, and attenuated cardiac hypertrophy. Capn2 silencing in H9c2 reproduced the effects by reducing LAMP2 proteolysis and hypertrophy. Balicatib produced comparable anti-hypertrophic effects, supporting a sequential calpain-cathepsin signaling cascade. When treatment was extended, NA-184 limited ventricular dilation and attenuated systolic dysfunction (30%, p < 0.001).These findings identify calpain-2-mediated LAMP2 proteolysis as an upstream trigger linking lysosomal dysfunction to pathological hypertrophy, and highlight selective calpain-2 inhibition as a therapeutic strategy for heart failure treatment.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Recent genetic findings have broadened the perspectives of cluster headache pathophysiology. Genes identified by genome wide association studies are likely to be involved in the pathophysiological mechanisms underlying the disease. In this study, we performed validation and characterization of eight loci corresponding to nine genes identified in previous genome wide association studies.Genetic loci were validated by means of a case-control study using TaqMan genotyping in 671 individuals, and a meta-analysis using previously genotyped data. Pyrosequencing methylation analysis and reverse transcription quantitative PCR gene expression studies was performed in a subset of individuals with cluster headache and healthy controls.Genetic associations were found with functional variants in two genes; FHL5 and MERTK. The minor allele of the FHL5 variant rs2273621 was associated with an increased risk of cluster headache in the genotyped samples (odds ratio = 1.42, P = 0.03) and in a meta-analysis (odds ratio = 1.29, confidence interval: 1.09-1.52), and the minor allele of the rs2230515 variant in MERTK was associated with lower risk in the meta-analysis (odds ratio = 0.69, confidence interval: 0.52-0.92). Methylation analysis further revealed altered methylation status of MERTK. Moreover, changes in relative gene expression were found for several candidate genes: a decrease in the mRNA expression of DUSP10 (P < 0.001), CAPN2 (P < 0.001), UFL1 (P < 0.001) and LRP1 (P = 0.007) in blood, and a decrease of CAPN2 (P < 0.001) as well as an increase in the mRNA expression of FTCDNL1/FONG (P = 0.004) in fibroblasts in CH vs. controls. Only two genes; PLCE1 and WNT2, could not be validated in the biological tissue studied; WNT2, possibly due to limited power, while PLCE1 was not expressed in the available tissue.These results confirm the validity of seven candidate genes for cluster headache identified through GWAS. Furthermore, five of the candidate genes are abundantly expressed in both immune and blood cells, converge functionally on inflammatory signalling pathways and suggest a potential role for inflammasomes in cluster headache.© 2026. The Author(s).
Diisononyl cyclohexane-1,2-dicarboxylate (DINCH), a widely used plasticizer substitute, has been widely detected in human populations and has emerged as a new environmental pollutant of growing concern. Despite the established association between exposure to traditional plasticizer and an increased risk of osteoarthritis (OA), it remains unclear whether DINCH, as a major substitute, contributes to OA pathogenesis through direct chondrotoxicity. This study integrated network toxicology, single-cell transcriptomics, machine learning, and experimental validation to systematically investigate the role of DINCH exposure in the onset and progression of OA and its potential molecule mechanisms. Through network toxicology analysis, we identified 14 common targets shared by DINCH and OA, which were significantly enriched in pathways related to cellular senescence, mitochondrial, and stress responses. In vitro experiments confirmed that DINCH inhibited chondrocyte viability in a concentration- and time-dependent manner and mediated mitochondrial stress and chondrocyte senescence. Random Forest algorithm, a nomogram model based on four high-confidence predictive biomarker-TSPO, RAF1, STAT6, and CAPN2-was constructed to predict the progression of DINCH-exposed related OA. Molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations suggested that DINCH may stably interact with the aforementioned targets in silico, with TSPO emerging as the candidate core target through multi-algorithm integration. Single-cell transcriptomic analysis revealed that TSPO is highly expressed in OA chondrocytes and specifically enriched in the hypertrophic chondrocyte subpopulation. Virtual gene knockout suggested that TSPO functional disruption was associated with extracellular matrix(ECM) homeostasis remodeling. Moreover, TRO-40303, as a TSPO-specific inhibitor, can effectively reverse TSPO upregulation-induced mitochondrial stress and chondrocyte senescence, thereby restoring the ECM metabolic balance in cartilage. Overall, this study elucidated the molecular mechanism by which DINCH exposure induced chondrotoxicity through TSPO targeting to drive OA development, providing new targets and theoretical foundations for the early diagnosis and intervention of environment-related OA.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Pachymic acid (PA) is a natural active component of Poria cocos(Schw.)Wol. Although PA exhibits antitumor activity in multiple cancers, its effects and mechanisms against glioma remain elusive. This study aimed to investigate the anti-glioma effects of PA and identify its potential candidate core targets and pathways. Functional experiments demonstrated that PA significantly inhibited the proliferation, migration, and invasion of glioma cells and induced apoptosis in a dose-dependent manner. Using network pharmacology, machine learning, and bioinformatics analysis, we screened six candidate targets: PDE4D, CAPN2, MAPK9, EPHB6, CCKBR, and FAAH. TCGA analysis confirmed that CAPN2 and PDE4D were upregulated in glioma, while the others were downregulated. Molecular docking, an in silico predictive approach, suggested that PA may potentially form favorable binding conformations with these core targets based on calculated binding energies. Further verification revealed that PA treatment was associated with reduced AKT and mTOR phosphorylation, suggesting that the PI3K-AKT-mTOR pathway may be involved in mediating its anti-glioma activity. In conclusion, PA exerts dose-dependent anti-glioma cellular effects through multi-gene regulation, and the suppressed activation of the PI3K-AKT pathway may correlate with its anti-tumor function. These results provide a theoretical basis for developing PA as a potential therapeutic agent for glioma.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Calpains are a family of 15 calcium-activated cysteine proteases that have emerged as potential antimetastatic targets in breast cancer. Calpain-1 and calpain-2 are ubiquitously expressed heterodimers composed of unique catalytic subunits (encoded by Capn1 and Capn2 , respectively) and a common regulatory subunit (encoded by Capns1 ). Genetic disruption of Capns1 abolishes calpain-1 and calpain-2 activity. Using CRISPR-Cas9 mediated Capns1 knockout, we validated calpains-1/2 as promising therapeutic targets in a mouse model of mammary carcinoma. Capns1 knockout impaired cell invasion by 53 ± 10% in vitro and reduced lung metastasis by 68 ± 12% in an orthotopic engraftment mouse model.Copyright: © 2026 by the authors.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the adverse effects of 1.5 μg·L-1 environmentally relevant chlorantraniliprole (CAP) on oxidase biomarkers (juvenile, 2.5 g) for 2, 4, and 8 h and transcriptomic response (adult, 254.8 g) for 96 and 192 h in American shad Alosa sapidissima (Wilson, 1981). American shad is sensitive to pollutants and has become an important economic fish in China, especially for recirculating the aquaculture system and photovoltaic farming. For juvenile shad under short-time CAP exposure, acid phosphatase (ACP) and aryl hydrocarbon receptase (AHR) at the protein level significantly increased at 2 h, and for longer-time exposure, alkaline phosphatase (AKP), polyphenol oxidase enzyme (PPO), and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFα) at the protein level significantly decreased; ryanodine receptase (RYR) at the protein level was significantly increased at 8 h. Interestingly, malondialdehyde (MDA) contents, biomarkers of oxidative stress, were significantly decreased for depletion at 2 h and 4 h, while they increased for eliminating free radicals at 8 h via longer-time CAP exposure duration. With the same CAP exposure for adult shad, the number of congested and dilated sinuses of the liver changed, with fine granular brown pigmentation and vacuolization of hepatocytes at 96 h, while the sinuses and central veins were dilated and edematous degeneration occurred at 192 h for longer-time exposure. The detected enzymatic activities, except for adenosine 5'-monophosphate (AMP)-activated protein kinase (AMPK), significantly decreased, and MDA contents significantly increased in adult shad at 96 and 192 h. Ribosome, proteasome, spliceosome, protein processing in endoplasmic reticulum, oxidative phosphorylation, glycerophospholipid metabolism, biosynthesis of amino acids, ferroptosis, peroxisome, apoptosis, necroptosis, and mTOR signaling pathways were the most significantly enriched pathways. For qPCR verification, the genes ppa2, pla1a, psmb13a, pkz and stat1b were significantly upregulated, while hspa8b, capn2, tram2, asns, bcl2l1, diablo, and prkcb were downregulated in adult shad. The results reveal elevated oxidative stress causing time-dependent hepatic damage via 1.5 μg·L-1 CAP exposure both in juvenile and adult shad.
Heart failure (HF) affects over 64 million people worldwide causally linked to fibrotic scarring. None of the available cardiac drugs target fibrosis directly, underlining unmet clinical need for novel therapies. This study aimed to explore the therapeutic potential of the cysteine protease inhibitor aloxistatin as a repurposed drug candidate to combat fibrotic progression in predictive HF models. Aloxistatin reduced migratory and proliferative capacities of human cardiac fibroblasts (HCFs) derived from various HF backgrounds. Mechanistically, aloxistatin attenuated TGFβ1-induced pro-fibrotic signaling in cardiomyopathy-derived HCFs by inhibiting extracellular matrix organization-related gene expression and secretion of MMP2 und FN1, partially mediated through CAPN2 inhibition. Transcriptomic analysis of rat ex vivo myocardial slices revealed a pronounced suppression of inflammatory pathways. Anti-inflammatory effects of aloxistatin were further confirmed by reduced NFκB activity in reporter cells and inhibited HLA-DR expression in human iPSC-derived macrophages. Application of diverse preclinical cardiac HF models arguably underlined aloxistatin as a potential drug repurposing strategy by simultaneously counteracting myocardial inflammatory signaling and pro-fibrotic mechanisms. This preclinical study suggests aloxistatin therapy for translational use to attenuate cardiac remodeling and progression of heart failure.© 2026. The Author(s).
To investigate the potential molecular mechanisms underlying aspartame (APM)-induced malignant phenotypic changes in colorectal cancer (CRC). Candidate targets of APM were identified by integrating the ChEMBL, SwissTargetPrediction, and SEA databases. Differential expression analysis was performed using transcriptomic data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) CRC cohort, followed by weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) to identify key modules associated with CRC. The intersection of differentially expressed genes (DEGs), key module genes, and candidate APM targets was used to identify shared APM-CRC candidate genes. Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment analyses, machine learning, SHAP-based interpretability analysis, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics simulations were then conducted to identify key feature genes and evaluate their potential interactions with APM. Finally, EdU, CCK-8, ROS fluorescence staining, and Western blot assays were performed in HCT116 and SW480 cells to validate the effects of APM on CRC cell proliferation, oxidative stress, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT)-related molecular alterations. A total of 4790 DEGs were identified between CRC and normal tissues, and WGCNA further identified key modules significantly associated with the tumor phenotype. Intersection analysis yielded 1003 CRC-related candidate genes and 26 shared APM-CRC candidate genes. Enrichment analysis indicated that these genes were mainly involved in extracellular matrix remodeling, regulation of cell adhesion, glutathione metabolism, and xenobiotic metabolism. Machine learning combined with SHAP analysis ultimately identified SLC7A5, MMP3, ITGA2, CAPN2, and BACE2 as key feature genes. Molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations suggested that APM could potentially interact with all five key proteins, with MMP3 and ITGA2 showing relatively stronger binding affinity. In vitro experiments showed that APM increased the proliferation of HCT116 and SW480 cells, elevated intracellular ROS levels, and was associated with decreased E-cadherin expression and increased N-cadherin and Vimentin expression. These findings suggest that APM exposure may be associated with increased CRC cell proliferation and EMT-related molecular alterations, accompanied by changes in oxidative stress-related processes, extracellular matrix remodeling, and abnormal cell adhesion. SLC7A5, MMP3, ITGA2, CAPN2, and BACE2 may represent APM-responsive candidate molecules involved in these cellular responses.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Multiple myeloma (MM) is a malignant hematological disorder characterized by the neoplastic proliferation of plasma cells. Hypercalcemia is a common complication in MM and is often considered a secondary consequence of disease progression. When calcium levels are severely elevated, it can lead to coma in affected patients. However, whether hypercalcemia plays a direct role in MM progression remains unclear. Herein we found that high calcium concentrations promote MM cell proliferation and it was associated with calpain-2 (CAPN2). We also observed that CAPN2 expression is significantly increased in MM patients and correlates with poor prognosis. Furthermore, knockdown of CAPN2 inhibited MM cell proliferation both in vitro and in vivo via upregulation of FN14 and induction of apoptosis. Importantly, treatment with ALLN, a CAPN2 inhibitor, substantially suppressed MM cell proliferation in vitro and in vivo by inducing apoptosis. Notably, ALLN significantly enhanced the sensitivity of MM cells to commonly used clinical drugs bortezomib and doxorubicin, while exhibiting no obvious cytotoxicity in normal cells. These findings establish CAPN2 as a promising therapeutic target in MM, with its inhibitor serving as a potential lead compound for further clinical evaluation. Our study also elucidates the relationship between hypercalcemia, CAPN2, and malignant proliferation in MM cells, and expands the therapeutic landscape for MM patients.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Reactivating functional estrogen receptor alpha (ERα) expression represents a promising strategy for tamoxifen (TAM)-based endocrine therapy in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). However, TAM and its metabolites may exert potential oncogenic effects, which could compromise TAM efficacy in TNBC. Here, we report that low-dose 4-hydroxytamoxifen (4-OHT), an active metabolite of TAM, enhances stemness in TNBC cells via the Neuropilin-1 (NRP-1)/Calpain-2 (CAPN2)/β-catenin axis. Mechanistically, 4-OHT stimulates CAPN2 activation by promoting its membrane localization, increasing substrate cleavage, and inducing degradation of its endogenous inhibitor calpastatin. Activated CAPN2 suppresses ubiquitin-mediated degradation of β-catenin, leading to elevated β-catenin stability and intracellular accumulation. This enhances β-catenin transcriptional activity and ultimately promotes stemness in TNBC cells. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis showed that high NRP1 expression correlates with poorer overall survival in breast cancer patients undergoing endocrine therapy. Moreover, 4-OHT triggers Ca2+ release and ERK phosphorylation in TNBC cells through the NRP-1/PLC-γ1 pathway, thereby activating CAPN2. Finally, we demonstrate that the NRP-1 inhibitor EG00229 sensitizes ERα-re-expressing TNBC cells to TAM treatment. Our study uncovers a molecular mechanism by which 4-OHT promotes TNBC stemness via the NRP-1/CAPN2/β-catenin signaling cascade. Targeting NRP-1 may serve as a valuable strategy to improve TAM efficacy in ERα-re-expressing TNBC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are a promising cell source for osteoarthritis and intervertebral disc degeneration, but their application is limited by inefficient and unstable chondrogenic differentiation. Here, nine Phorbazole D analogues were synthesized and evaluated for promoting chondrogenesis in human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells (hUC-MSCs) under TGF-β/dexamethasone based induction conditions. Among the tested analogues, IO-5a was selected for further evaluation based on its comparatively higher pro-chondrogenic activity and no detectable cytotoxicity. Image-based Alcian blue analysis showed that the positive staining area increased from approximately 17% in the control group to approximately 45% after IO-5a treatment. RT-qPCR further showed that 10 µM IO-5a upregulated COL2A1, SOX9, ACAN, and COMP by approximately 2.6-fold, 1.1-fold, 1.35-fold, and 1.4-fold, respectively. Immunofluorescence, western blotting, and 3D pellet culture analyses supported increased cartilage associated marker expression and cartilage like matrix deposition. Preliminary structure-activity relationship analysis suggested that retention of the A-ring phenolic hydroxyl group and favorable A-/C-ring substituent matching may contribute to activity. In silico target prediction and molecular docking nominated PTPN1 (PTP1B) as a potential candidate protein, although this predicted interaction requires further experimental validation. Collectively, IO-5a represents a bioactive Phorbazole D analogue with chondrogenesis promoting activity in hUC-MSCs.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
This study aimed to identify and validate potential endoplasmic reticulum stress-related biomarkers of focal segmental glomerulosclerosis(FSGS).Five microarray datasets were downloaded from the GEO database. The endoplasmic reticulum stress-related genes were extracted from GeneCards database. GSE104948, GSE129973, and GSE121233 datasets were used to identify DEGs by limma R package. WGCNA was performed to obtain hub gene modules. We intersected the DEGs, genes from hub module of WGCNA, and ERSRGs. GO and KEGG pathway enrichment analyses were performed. LASSO, SVM-RFE, and RF algorithms were used to screen characteristic genes. Further, GSE108109 and GSE104066 were used as validated datasets. Box plots, ROC curves, and AUC were created to identify potential biomarkers. A novel nomogram model was constructed using potential biomarkers. Immunohistochemistry validated the expression of the potential biomarkers, and correlation analysis was used to assess the correlation between the integrated optical density(IOD) value of GADD45A and the levels of 24-hour urinary protein, eGFR, and blood urea nitrogen.Intersecting DEGs, the brown module genes, and ERSRGs, we identified 15 hub ERSRGs of FSGS. AGO2, CCND1, GADD45A, TRAM2, and PTPN1 genes were screened by using Lasso, SVM-RFE, and RF. Further, CCND1, GADD45A, and TRAM2 were validated as significant in training and validation datasets. A nomogram based on CCND1, GADD45A, and TRAM2 expression was constructed. The calibration curves, decision analysis curve, and clinical impact curve showed that the nomogram had good consistency and clinical practical benefit. The expression of GADD45A is higher in FSGS than controls in immunohistochemical(IHC) results(P < 0.0001). The integrated optical density value of GADD45A shows a strong correlation with 24-hour urinary protein(r 2 = 0.8459,P < 0.0001), eGFR(r 2 = -0.8233,P < 0.0001), and blood urea nitrogen(r 2 = 0.8695,P < 0.0001).GADD45A may be a potential biomarker associated with endoplasmic reticulum stress in FSGS.With its potential applicability spanning both biomarker identification and therapeutic intervention, GADD45A offers a compelling avenue for improving FSGS detection and clinical management in subsequent investigations.© 2026 The Authors.
Protein tyrosine phosphatases (PTPs) are pivotal in cellular signal transduction. Recent studies have identified protein tyrosine phosphatase, non-receptor type 1 (PTPN1), as a novel immune checkpoint. However, its effects and underlying mechanisms in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remain underexplored. This study aims to elucidate the impact of PTPN1 on the prognosis of HCC patients, the tumor microenvironment (TME), and the biological behavior of HCC cells, with the goal of assessing its clinical potential in HCC.Expression profiles and clinical data for liver cancer patients were obtained from the TCGA database, while single-cell RNA sequencing data were sourced from the GEO database. Corresponding cell function assays were conducted for further validation.PTPN1 mRNA expression was significantly elevated in liver cancer, with higher levels correlating with increased malignancy. Cox analysis found PTPN1 as an influencing factor for prognosis of HCC patients. Gene function and pathway analyses revealed that PTPN1 is implicated in immune-related pathways associated with cancer and hematopoiesis. Notably, PTPN1 expression was found to suppress infiltration of CD8+ T cells. Further investigations using single-cell RNA sequencing and experimental assays demonstrated that silencing PTPN1 in T cell populations enhanced JAK2 and STAT5 expression in CD8+ T cells, as well as their proliferation. Additionally, PTPN1 overexpression in liver cancer cells promoted cell proliferation and invasion through activation of the PI3K-AKT signaling pathway.PTPN1 may inhibit T cell proliferation via the JAK2-STAT5 axis while simultaneously advancing liver cancer progression by activating the PI3K-AKT pathway in cancer cells. These findings suggest that PTPN1 could serve as a promising target for immunotherapy in liver cancer.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Metabolic diseases such as type 2 diabetes and obesity represent a rapidly escalating global health burden, while existing therapeutic strategies largely target isolated symptoms or single molecular pathways. To address this limitation, we developed an integrated computational pipeline leveraging a knowledge graph, pathway enrichment, and network pharmacology to elucidate multi-target mechanisms of Single Herbal Drugs (SHDs). SHDs associated with diabetes and obesity were curated from the Ayurvedic Pharmacopoeia of India, and their phytochemicals were identified using the IMPPAT database. Following drug-likeness and predicted bioavailability filtering, 11 SHDs and 188 phytochemicals were shortlisted. Molecular targets of these phytochemicals, along with disease-associated genes and therapeutic targets of FDA-approved drugs, were compiled through multi-database integration. Pathway enrichment analysis revealed significant overlap between SHD-associated and disease-associated pathways. All curated data were integrated into a Neo4j-based knowledge graph to enable SHD-disease intersection analysis, prioritizing key targets such as PTPN1, GLP1R, and DPP4. SHD-Target-Drug profiling demonstrated convergence with clinically validated drug combinations. Network pharmacology based on protein-protein interaction network analysis further identified PPARG as a central regulatory hub. We propose a quantitative framework to identify structurally dissimilar phytochemical pairs acting on complementary disease-associated targets, highlighting non-redundant network-level interactions and generating mechanistic hypotheses for potential synergy. Molecular docking of PPARG and DPP4 identified promising lead phytochemicals, including Chitraline, Isovitexin, and Pakistanine for DPP4, and Sulfurein, Sesamin, and Pterosupin for PPARG. Overall, this integrative approach provides a robust systems-level framework for mechanistically dissecting SHDs and bridging traditional herbal knowledge with modern biomedical research.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Targeted degradation of PTPN2 is an attractive cancer immunotherapy strategy. However, unfavorable physicochemical properties limit the development of current PTPN2 degraders. In this study, using a ring-opening scaffold-hopping strategy, we identified a class of alkyne-containing PTPN2 ligands, which were subsequently employed for PROTAC design. Through optimizing linkers and CRBN ligands, we obtained PD-305, featuring a rigid linker and a naphtholactam-based ligand. PD-305 exhibits subnanomolar degradation potency (DC50 = 0.25 nM, 868-fold superior to the previously discovered PVD-06) and good subtype selectivity (PTPN2/PTPN1 selectivity >20-fold). Compared to previous PTPN2 degraders, it displays lower molecular weight, fewer hydrogen bond donors/acceptors, and a reduced cLogP. PD-305 exhibited nanomolar antiproliferation potency in the IFN-γ stimulated HT-29 cell line, nearly 80-fold more potent than the clinical candidate AC484. Moreover, it possessed excellent in vivo PTPN2 degradation potency and effectively suppressed tumor growth in mice. Collectively, PD-305 is a promising lead compound worthy of further study.
The apoptotic pathway mediated by mitochondria depends on the activation of pro-apoptotic Bcl-2 proteins Bax and Bak. When they permeabilize the outer mitochondrial membrane (OMM), mitochondrial dysfunction occurs, leading to caspase activation. A recent study proposed that Bax accumulation on mitochondria increases apoptotic susceptibility, with adhesion-initiated signals regulating Bax. When adhesion signaling is inhibited, Bax translocates to the OMM, undergoes conformational change, and forms complexes that create pores. Although MOMP is well studied, mechanisms regulating Bax shuttling, non-canonical partners, and mitochondrial dynamics remain poorly understood.This review aims to provide insights by discussing the mechanisms through which Bax regulates its mitochondrial targeting, the mitochondrial dynamics associated with Bax translocation, and their influence to apoptosis. Understanding these processes could reveal new insights into the decision-making checkpoints that determine cell death.A comprehensive literature search was conducted across scientific databases for peer-reviewed publications up to 2025. Search terms included Bax retrotranslocation, mitochondrial dynamics, Bcl-2 family interactome, and apoptotic priming.Recent evidence shows that Bax continuously retrotranslocates from mitochondria to the cytosol under survival conditions, a process driven by anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 proteins. When adhesion signaling or other survival cues are inhibited, this cycle is disrupted, leading to Bax accumulation on mitochondria, its oligomerization, and the onset of MOMP. Several mitochondrial proteins, including Drp1, MAVS, OCIAD1, PTPN1, and AKAP1, have also been linked to a mitochondrial interaction network that influences Bax localization and retrotranslocation. Proximity-labeling approaches such as BioID are further identifying new proteins that may regulate Bax's mitochondrial targeting and apoptotic priming.The mechanisms driving Bax accumulation on mitochondria and its retrotranslocation remain unclear, especially the role of mitochondrial proteins. Evidence suggests mitochondrial interaction networks influence Bax and Bak regulation. Further research is needed to define how these networks integrate with the Bcl-2 interactome to shape apoptotic decisions.© 2026 The Author(s). Health Science Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Colorectal cancer remains a major clinical challenge, and dual targeting of PTPN1 and PTPN2 represents a promising strategy to modulate conserved phosphatase signaling relevant to tumor biology and immune regulation. Here, we identified and prioritized two compounds, HIT101308137 and HIT104293658, as dual compatible chemotypes for PTPN1 and PTPN2 through a structure guided workflow integrating pocket comparison, ligand based interaction hypothesis generation, and structure based evaluation under static and dynamic conditions. Sequence and structural analyses supported high conservation of the catalytic pocket, providing a feasible basis for dual target coverage. Screening and post docking tri metric prioritization nominated three shared candidates, of which HIT101308137 and HIT104293658 were further differentiated by microsecond molecular dynamics simulations and interaction occupancy profiling. In both targets, the candidates preserved an Arg centered anchoring pattern within the P loop, while exhibiting distinct binding behaviors: HIT101308137 maintained a more co crystal like, catalytic core coupled interaction network with stronger persistence of contacts associated with the WPD region, whereas HIT104293658 displayed a more entrance biased interaction distribution consistent with increased pose reorganization. In CCK 8 viability assays, HIT101308137 and HIT104293658 produced reproducible dose dependent reductions in viability in HCT116 and SW480 cells, while showing limited effects in NCM460 and FHC cells within the same concentration window. Together, these results nominate HIT101308137 and HIT104293658 as starting points for dual target optimization and provide a mechanistic rationale to enhance cellular potency while maintaining low impact on normal colonic epithelial cells.Copyright © 2026 Huang, Chen, Chen and Cao.
Background/Objectives: The clinical management of bladder cancer is severely impeded by high recurrence rates and the rapid emergence of chemoresistance, necessitating the discovery of novel therapeutic agents with distinct mechanisms of action. Dehydrodiisoeugenol (DHE), a bioactive neolignan, exhibits potent anti-tumor efficacy, yet its direct molecular targets and mode of action remain elusive. Methods: To deconvolute the mechanism of DHE, we integrated a phenotypic screening approach using 2D cell lines and 3D patient-derived organoids with a chemoproteomics-based activity-based protein profiling (ABPP) strategy. We synthesized a functionalized photoaffinity probe to capture the specific interactome of DHE under physiological conditions and validated targets via cellular thermal shift assays (CETSA), quantitative mass spectrometry, and 100 ns molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. Results: DHE exhibited potent dose-dependent cytotoxicity in bladder cancer cells, with IC50 values of 39.23 μM in T24 and 34.58 μM in 5637 cells. In 3D patient-derived organoids, DHE significantly reduced viability (p < 0.0001). Using a dual-filtering ABPP strategy, we identified 65 high-confidence candidate targets, prioritizing PTPN1 (PTP1B) as the primary functional interactor. Comparative molecular docking and 100 ns MD analyses showed that multiple stereoisomers of DHE could adopt plausible PTPN1-binding modes. Mechanistically, organoid proteomics indicated that DHE engagement with PTPN1 disrupts ER membrane homeostasis, thereby modulating the PI3K-Akt signaling axes. Conclusions: These findings establish PTPN1 as a critical druggable vulnerability in bladder cancer and define the molecular basis for the therapeutic potential of DHE. This study highlights the power of combining chemoproteomics with physiological 3D models to accelerate the translation of natural products into precision cancer therapies.
Background/Objectives: EBV is an oncogenic virus linked to NPC and GC, driving cisplatin resistance. Resveratrol has anticancer activity, but its targets and mechanisms against EBV-positive cancers remain unclear. Methods: We assessed resveratrol's cytotoxicity in EBV-positive cells via functional assays, identified targets by chemical similarity search and molecular docking, and validated PTPN1 via in vitro experiments and nude mouse xenograft models. Results: Resveratrol inhibited EBV-positive cell viability in a time- and concentration- dependent manner, with IC50 values ranging from 35.85 to 145.7 μM across different cell lines at 24-72 h. Apoptosis rates increased by approximately 2- to 4-fold after 80 μM resveratrol treatment for 24 h. Resveratrol directly targeted PTPN1 (docking score = -4.89) and promoted its degradation via the proteasome pathway, as MG132 reversed this effect. Notably, resveratrol synergized with cisplatin (combination index < 1) to reverse cisplatin resistance in both in vitro and in vivo models. Furthermore, resveratrol induced EBV lytic reactivation through ROS production, as evidenced by the increased expression of BZLF1, BMRF1, and BALF2, which was attenuated by the ROS scavenger NAC. Conclusions: Our findings identify PTPN1 as a direct anticancer target of resveratrol in EBV-positive cancers. Resveratrol enhances the therapeutic efficacy of cisplatin via PTPN1 proteasomal degradation and induces EBV lytic reactivation through ROS accumulation. These findings provide a mechanistic basis for the development of novel combination therapies targeting EBV-associated malignancies.
Our research endeavored to formulate a patient-specific prognostic algorithm and elucidate the interconnection between critical genetic polymorphisms at PTPN1 loci and the predisposition to small vessel pathologies in Han Chinese subjects presenting with T2DM. From January 1, 2019, to June 30, 2024, a total of 3,847 patients with T2DM were enrolled in this cross-sectional case-control study. They were grouped into four groups by means of fundus examination and renal function assessment: the T2DM alone group (T2DM group), the T2DM combined with diabetic retinopathy (DR) group (T2DM + DR group), the T2DM combined with diabetic nephropathy (DN) group (T2DM + DN group), and the T2DM combined with DR + DN group (T2DM + DR +DN group). The genotypes of four SNP loci (rs968289, rs6067484, rs2206521, rs754118) of the PTPN1 gene were detected by PCR-RFLP. To evaluate the association between SNP loci and microvascular complications, multivariate logistic regression analysis was employed, followed by LASSO regression for variable selection to develop a nomogram prediction model. The rs968289-GG genotype demonstrated a statistically significant link to the risk of DR (adjusted OR = 1.47, 95%CI: 1.15-1.88, P = 0.002); the rs6067484-CC genotype exhibited a significant relationship with the risk of DN (adjusted OR = 1.58, 95%CI: 1.21-2.06, P < 0.001); The rs2206521-AA genotype significantly correlated with the risk of DR + DN co-morbidity (adjusted OR = 1.69, 95%CI: 1.28-2.24, P < 0.001). The column-line graphical model constructed based on nine independent predictors had AUCs of 0.823 and 0.808 in the training and validation sets, with sensitivity and specificity of 76.4%/78.9% and 74.2%/80.1%, respectively. Significant associations were observed between specific genotypic variants at the PTPN1 gene's rs968289, rs6067484 and rs2206521 loci and microvascular complication risk in Chinese Han T2DM patients. The column-line graph prediction model integrating genetic markers and clinical indicators has good discriminative ability and clinical utility, providing an important tool for individualized risk assessment and precise prevention of diabetic microvascular complications.© 2026. The Author(s).
The discovery of CAP-Gly domain-containing linker protein 1(CLIP1)-Leukocyte tyrosine kinase (LTK) as an oncogenic fusion reveals a unique dependency not only on LTK kinase activity but also on CLIP1-mediated multimerization, a noncatalytic function that drives oncogenic signaling. While this fusion is currently targeted with anaplastic lymphoma kinase inhibitors, their exclusive focus on kinase inhibition leaves the scaffolding function intact, necessitating a complete protein clearance strategy. Here, we report the AI-guided development of a first-in-class proteolysis-targeting chimera (PROTAC) designed to selectively degrade the CLIP1-LTK fusion protein. By integrating deep learning models for ternary complex prediction with structure-based molecular optimization, we designed DCL05, an orally bioavailable degrader of CLIP1-LTK fusion protein, achieving picomolar degradation potency (DC50 = 40 pM) and robust antitumor activity. DCL05 consistently outperformed existing kinase inhibitors across a broad spectrum of LTK resistance-associated mutations, both in vitro and in vivo. Collectively, our study explores resistance-associated contexts of LTK and establishes a structure-guided PROTAC development pipeline, providing a promising therapeutic strategy for overcoming acquired resistance in kinase-driven cancers.
Body color brightness is a key determinant of ornamental value in koi, yet nutritional strategies targeting structural coloration mediated by iridophores remain underexplored. Fish scale meal (FSM), an abundant fishery by-product, contains guanine and collagen, which may contribute to structural coloration and body brightness. This study evaluated the effects of partial replacement of fish meal with FSM on growth performance, body color parameters, pigment accumulation, iridophore density, and iridophore-related gene expression in koi. A total of 384 koi with an initial body weight of 19.02 ± 0.18 g were randomly assigned to six dietary treatments for 8 weeks, with FSM inclusion levels ranging from 0% to 9.55%, corresponding to 0-100% replacement of dietary fish meal. Growth performance, including final body weight, weight gain rate, and specific growth rate, decreased with increasing FSM inclusion. Body lightness (L*) and scale guanine content increased progressively with FSM level and reached their highest values at 9.55% FSM, whereas redness (a*), yellowness (b*), and total carotenoid content showed the opposite trend. Iridophore density was significantly higher in the 3.82-5.73% FSM groups than in the other treatments. The expression of iridophore-related genes, including sox10, pax3, ltk, alx4a, and foxd3, showed non-linear responses and generally reached higher levels at moderate FSM inclusion, whereas pka showed an opposite transcript pattern. Overall, dietary FSM inclusion elicited trait-dependent responses in koi. Low or no FSM inclusion was preferable for maintaining growth, intermediate inclusion was more favorable for iridophore development, whereas higher FSM inclusion enhanced brightness-related traits. These findings suggest that FSM should be used according to the intended production objective, with inclusion levels adjusted for growth maintenance, iridophore-related coloration improvement, or brightness enhancement.
Radiotherapy (RT) plays a crucial role in the comprehensive treatment of rectal cancer. However, the impact of radiotherapy on the tumor microenvironment (TME), especially its effect on immune cell infiltration and immune-related gene expression, has not been fully studied. This study aims to screen and analyze key genes related to the immune microenvironment of rectal cancer influenced by radiotherapy based on bioinformatics methods for the purpose of identifying potential biomarkers and providing new insights for the personalized therapy of rectal cancer.Using data from the Public Gene Expression Database (GEO) and the Cancer Genomics Database (TCGA), the impact of radiotherapy on the immune microenvironment of rectal cancer was explored using bioinformatics tools. Through screening differentially expressed genes (DEGs), correlation analysis, TIMER database analysis, immune infiltration score, and correlation analysis between key genes and prognosis, the effects of radiotherapy on the immune microenvironment of rectal cancer were investigated.Totally 7 upregulated and 4 downregulated differentially expressed genes were identified, among which MASP1, LTK, SLC9A3R2 were negatively correlated with myeloid suppressor cell infiltration (MDSCs), while ZP2 was positively correlated. The expression of MASP1 and SLC9A3R2 was closely related to the level of immune cell infiltration and played significant roles in the immune microenvironment. High expression of MASP1 was significantly correlated with survival benefits from immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy, while SLC9A3R2 was closely related to the efficacy of PD-L1 inhibitors and CTLA4 inhibitors.MASP1 and SLC9A3R2, as two key genes that may be related to the immune microenvironment of rectal cancer radiotherapy, deserve further exploration of their roles in the mechanism. The combination of radiotherapy and immunotherapy holds promising prospects in the treatment of rectal cancer, and exploration of related mechanisms will provide new strategies and targets for the treatment of various tumors and rectal cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
The development of effective antiviral drugs for pandemic scenarios is a significant challenge, particularly due to the rapid emergence of drug-resistant viral strains and a paucity of drugs that have broad efficacy across viral families. A promising strategy is so called host-targeted therapeutics which inhibit host-mechanisms that viruses rely on instead of viruses themselves. LTK, an endoplasmic reticulum-resident kinase, plays a crucial role in ER-to-Golgi trafficking, a process exploited by many viruses during their life cycle, and is therefore a potential candidate for host-targeted antiviral therapeutics. LTK is highly homologous to ALK, a tyrosine kinase that can be aberrantly expressed by cancer cells, and importantly, LTK, but not ALK, is expressed in the lung and small intestine. We here repurposed ALK-inhibitors that also inhibit LTK, and investigated if this inhibition could reduce viral load and serve as a new class of antiviral drug. In vitro, influenza and SARS-CoV-2 viruses could be inhibited by the LTK inhibitors ceritinib, crizotinib, entrectinib, ensartinib, brigatinib, and alectinib, but not lorlatinib. Importantly, the repurposed ALK-inhibitors crizotinib, brigatinib, and ceritinib also gave some protection in mice against lethal viral challenges with influenza and SARS-CoV-2, respectively. The study highlights the potential of LTK inhibition as target for a new class of host-targeted antivirals therapeutics.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Although several genomic alterations have been reported in adenocarcinoma of unknown primary (ACUP), molecularly targeted therapies are not yet clinically established, and comprehensive genomic profiling (CGP) is rarely used in daily practice.We aimed to clarify the molecular landscape and prognostic impact of key mutations in recurrent or metastatic ACUP.Data from 480 consecutive ACUP patients registered in Japan's National Cancer Center (C-CAT) between June 2019 and August 2025 were analyzed. Somatic mutations were identified using the FoundationOne CDx platform. Overall survival (OS) was assessed by Kaplan-Meier analysis, log-rank tests, and multivariate Cox proportional hazards modeling.The most frequent alterations were TP53 (59.4%), KRAS (31.5%), CDKN2A (26.3%), KMT2D (22.3%), LTK (17.9%), NOTCH3 (16.9%), STK11 (16.3%), CDKN2B (15.8%), ERBB2 (15.4%), and GNAS (15.2%). Patients harbored an average of 17.3 9.9 mutations. Mutations in GNAS (p = 0.046) and PIK3CA (p = 0.025) were associated with better OS, whereas ARID1A (p = 0.049) and NOTCH1 (p = 0.038) predicted worse OS. In Cox analysis, hazard ratios (HR [95% CI]) were 0.57 (0.36-0.92, p = 0.020) for GNAS, 0.57 (0.33-0.96, p = 0.033) for PIK3CA, 1.98 (1.27-3.09, p = 0.0024) for ARID1A, and 1.84 (1.17-2.91, p = 0.0090) for NOTCH1.GNAS and PIK3CA mutations were linked to favorable outcomes, while ARID1A and NOTCH1 alterations indicated poor prognosis in ACUP. These results highlight the prognostic significance of specific genomic alterations and support integrating CGP into the clinical management of ACUP.
The prevalence of advanced chronic liver disease (ACLD) is increasing globally and represents a growing public health challenge. General practice is well positioned to identify patients at risk, initiate timely assessment, and coordinate long-term management of ACLD. However, many general practitioners (GPs) report uncertainty about appropriate diagnostic tests and their role in early detection pathways. This study examined the feasibility and acceptability of the Liver Toolkit (LTK), an integrated care program piloted in Sydney, Australia, designed to support early detection and management of ACLD in general practice.A qualitative study was conducted involving semi-structured interviews with general practice and hospital staff engaged in the program. Data were analysed using the Theoretical Framework of Acceptability (TFA), which guided exploration of constructs including affective attitude, coherence, burden, perceived effectiveness, and self-efficacy.Thematic analysis revealed mixed levels of acceptability across the TFA constructs. Many participants recognised the LTK's potential to improve early detection and enhance collaboration with specialist services. However, concerns emerged about coherence, with uncertainty around how the program aligned with existing workflows and priorities. Self-efficiency was limited, as GPs reported low confidence in using the associated software and interpreting outputs independently. The program was also perceived as burdensome, with time demands and the number of indicators highlighted as barriers. Despite these challenges, hospital led support, training, and special input were viewed as important enablers that facilitated participation and built trust in the program.Although the LTK demonstrated promise in improving early identification and management of ACLD, further refinements are needed before broader implementation in general practice. Key improvements include simplifying design features, reducing the number of indicators, and strengthening GP knowledge and skills. With targeted development and sustainable integration, the LTK program holds the potential to reduce the burden on individuals, primary care, and the health system.© 2026 The Author(s) (or their employer(s)). Published by CSIRO Publishing on behalf of La Trobe University.
&lt;b&gt;Introduction:&lt;/b&gt; Although genetic mutations have been reported in salivary duct carcinoma (SDC), no scientifically validated targeted therapies are currently available. Moreover, cancer genomic profiling tests remain underutilized in clinical practice. These issues highlight the urgent need to elucidate the genomic landscape of SDC and its potential therapeutic relevance. &lt;br&gt;&lt;br&gt;&lt;b&gt;Aim:&lt;/b&gt; This study aimed to characterize the mutational profile of recurrent and/or metastatic SDC. &lt;br&gt;&lt;br&gt;&lt;b&gt;Materials and methods:&lt;/b&gt; Data were analyzed for 207 consecutive patients with SDC registered at the Japan National Cancer Center, Center for Cancer Genomics and Advanced Therapeutics (C-CAT) between June 2019 and October 2025. Genetic mutations were determined by next-generation sequencing. Survival of patients was determined by the log-rank test and the Cox proportional hazards model. &lt;br&gt;&lt;br&gt;&lt;b&gt;Results:&lt;/b&gt; The top 10 mutations in SDC were &lt;i&gt;TP53&lt;/i&gt; (74.4%), &lt;i&gt;ERBB2&lt;/i&gt; (52.2%), &lt;i&gt;NF1&lt;/i&gt; (32.4%), &lt;i&gt;CDK12&lt;/i&gt; (29.0%), &lt;i&gt;PIK3CA&lt;/i&gt; (28.0%), &lt;i&gt;NOTCH3&lt;/i&gt; (19.8%), &lt;i&gt;LTK&lt;/i&gt; (18.4%), &lt;i&gt;CDKN2A&lt;/i&gt; (18.4%), &lt;i&gt;BRCA2&lt;/i&gt; (16.9%), &lt;i&gt;SPEN&lt;/i&gt; (16.9%), with 17.1 7.2 (mean standard error of the mean [SEM]) mutations/individual. &lt;i&gt;TP53&lt;/i&gt; mutations (p = 0.005707) were associated with a significantly worse prognosis, as determined by log-rank test. The hazard ratios for cases with this mutation was 2.6390 (95% CI, 1.2180-5.720, p = 0.0139) for &lt;i&gt;TP53&lt;/i&gt;. &lt;br&gt;&lt;br&gt;&lt;b&gt;Conclusions:&lt;/b&gt; This study delineated the mutational spectrum of recurrent and/or metastatic SDC. Even in advanced disease, prognostically relevant mutations were identified, emphasizing the clinical importance of cancer genomic profiling tests.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a leading cause of cancer-related mortality, necessitating the identification of novel therapeutic targets. UHRF1 is an epigenetic regulator implicated in various cancers, but its precise mechanistic role in HCC progression remains incompletely understood. This study investigates the epigenetic mechanisms by which UHRF1 promotes HCC pathogenesis, with a focus on its interaction with SFMBT2. A multifaceted approach integrating clinical sample analysis, bioinformatics, in vitro cell culture experiments, and in vivo xenograft models was employed. UHRF1 expression was assessed in HCC tissues and cell lines. Functional roles were investigated through overexpression and knockdown models, evaluated by MTT, Transwell, and Western blot assays. ChIP and luciferase reporter assays were used to examine promoter binding and transcriptional regulation. UHRF1 was significantly upregulated in HCC tissues and correlated with advanced tumor grade and poor survival. UHRF1 promoted HCC cell proliferation, migration, and invasion by activating the ERK/AKT/NF-κB signaling pathways. Mechanistically, UHRF1 bound to CpG islands in the SFMBT2 promoter, epigenetically repressing its expression. SFMBT2 overexpression reversed UHRF1-driven oncogenic effects in vitro and in vivo. Furthermore, UHRF1-mediated SFMBT2 downregulation led to increased HOXB13 expression, which transcriptionally activated LTK. This study identifies a novel UHRF1/SFMBT2 epigenetic axis critical for HCC progression. UHRF1 represses SFMBT2 to activate ERK/AKT/NF-κB and HOXB13/LTK pathways, driving tumor aggressiveness. Restoration of SFMBT2 counteracts these effects, highlighting its tumor-suppressive role. These findings position UHRF1 as a promising prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target in HCC.
Conventional hemostatic materials face challenges in adequately addressing the requirements of patients suffering from non-compressible hemorrhage. Furthermore, diabetic infected wounds frequently present a persistent and slow-healing condition. Currently available treatment strategies are unable to fully address non-compressible hemorrhage and promote the healing of diabetic infected wounds. In this study, we prepared a hydrogel named LTK, which is cross-linked by reversible hydrogen bonds and coordination bonds, using lipoic acid(LA)and kaempferol (Ka) as the main raw materials, and loaded it with Typhaneoside(TYP). The LTK-TYP hydrogel can fully diffuse into the irregularities of substrate surfaces and robustly adhere to various substrates. Molecular dynamics simulations further unveiled the atomic details of the formation of the LTK-TYP hydrogel through multi-modal physical interactions. In vitro and in vivo studies demonstrated that the LTK-TYP hydrogel exhibits excellent hemostatic ability, biocompatibility, and wound closure capacity. Moreover, it promotes the healing of diabetic methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)-infected wounds through antibacterial, anti-inflammatory, and angiogenic functions. This study showcases the immense potential of this multifunctional hydrogel in wound closure, hemostasis, and the healing of diabetic infected wounds.© 2025 The Authors.
Cancer-associated signaling pathways, particularly the ALK/LTK receptor tyrosine kinases and their ligand ALKAL2, have recently been implicated in chronic inflammation and myocardial remodeling. However, the relationship between ALKAL2 and coronary artery disease (CAD) pathogenesis in type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) remains undefined.From January 2019 to December 2020, patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) undergoing coronary angiography were consecutively enrolled at Ruijin Hospital. Plasma ALKAL2 levels were measured using an ELISA assay. The association between ALKAL2 and CAD severity was assessed by Spearman correlation analysis. Logistic regression models were used to measure the association between ALKAL2 and CAD risk.275 T2DM patients with CAD and 275 age- and sex-matched T2DM patients without CAD were included in the final analysis. Plasma ALKAL2 levels were increased in T2DM patients with CAD (0.25 [0.21, 0.37] ng/mL, median [IQR] vs. 0.18 [0.14, 0.24]ng/mL) (p < 0.001) and were positively associated with CAD severity (Spearman rho = 0.53, p < 0.001). Multivariate analysis revealed that plasma ALKAL2 levels were independently associated with the incidence of CAD after adjusting for LDL-C, hsCRP, and other traditional risk factors (OR, 2.24 [95% CI, 1.79-2.85]; p < 0.001).Elevated plasma ALKAL2 levels are an independent risk factor for T2DM CAD and are associated with the severity of CAD.© 2025. The Author(s).
MECOM rearrangements (MECOM-r) are high-risk events in myeloid neoplasms often cryptic or incompletely characterized by conventional karyotype analysis. We used optical genome mapping (OGM) to define the frequency and spectrum of MECOM-r in an unselected, consecutively collected cohort of individuals with high-grade myeloid neoplasms (HGMNs) and compared these findings with standard cytogenetic approaches.A total of 252 HGMN specimens, including 224 with definitive diagnoses of acute myeloid leukemia, were processed over a 2-year period using OGM, G-banded karyotyping and, in some cases, reflex fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) for the MECOM locus. Cases were retrospectively reviewed to determine whether the identification of MECOM-r by OGM refined diagnosis and/or prognosis.Our diagnostic workflow identified MECOM-r in 12 cases (4.7%), only 6 of which were identified by combined karyotype and FISH analyses, the latter for suspected chromosome 3 abnormalities. The remaining 6 cases were cryptic due to normal karyotypes, highly complex karyotypes lacking apparent chromosome 3 involvement, or culture failure and thus were identified by OGM and reflex FISH. Furthermore, OGM clarified complex architectures, resolved genetic alterations, and identified diverse partner loci, including GATA2, THADA, MYC, PHACTR1, MB21D2, XR_001744423.2, IL12A-AS1, TRIM59, CDK6, and MSI2. Detection of these structural alterations prompted diagnostic and/or risk reclassification in 5 cases.Optical genome mapping doubled the detection rate and improved the structural resolution of MECOM-r by identifying rearrangements incompletely resolved or missed by conventional cytogenetics. Implementation of OGM showed that MECOM-r can be cryptic and frequently overlooked, highlighting the value of high-resolution testing in HGMNs.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American Society for Clinical Pathology.
Yeast culture (YC) is widely applied as a functional feed additive, yet the mechanisms by which it regulates hepatic health, metabolism, and immune capacity in teleosts remain unclear. Here, juvenile Plectropomus leopardus were fed diets supplemented with 2.0% (YC2.0) or 8.0% YC (YC8.0) for 60 days, followed by hepatic histophysiological assessment, liver transcriptomic/metabolomic profiling, and an in vitro hepatocyte challenge with nervous necrosis virus (NNV). YC2.0 pincreased lipid droplet accumulation, improved antioxidant status, and lower aspartate aminotransferase(AST)/alanine aminotransferase (ALT)/alkaline phosphatase (ALP) and MDA in the liver than the control (Con) and YC8.0 groups. RNA-seq identified 915 hepatic differentially expressed genes (DEGs): YC2.0-specific genes were enriched in steroid hormone biosynthesis, bile secretion, and rhythmic regulation, whereas YC8.0-upregulated clusters were enriched in NOD-like receptor and JAK-STAT signaling, hematopoietic cell lineage, and apoptosis, with elevated immune- and apoptosis-related markers (nlrp1, mcub, myc, map1lc3b, and gadd45β/γ). Metabolomics identified 680 differential metabolites across the three groups, showing that YC2.0 predominantly enhanced purine/nucleotide and glycerophospholipid metabolism, while YC8.0 shifted toward amino acid-centered pathways (arginine biosynthesis, histidine metabolism, and FoxO signaling). Multiomics integration revealed positive correlations of L-aspartic acid (L-Asp) and glutamic acid (Glu) with inflammatory DEGs, and of glycerophosphoethanolamine (Geptn) with apoptosis-related DEGs. In vitro, YC pretreatment alleviated NNV-induced cytopathic effects (CPEs) in hepatocytes, suppressed viral mRNA accumulation, and reduced the mRNA levels of inflammatory cytokines (il1β, ifng, il6, il12a, il16, and tnfsf14) and immune pathway related DEGs. Collectively, these results characterize dose-dependent effects of YC on hepatic physiology and immune regulation, supporting its application as a functional aquafeed supplement.Copyright © 2026 Chenlin Yin et al. Aquaculture Nutrition published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Glioblastoma (GBM) progression is driven by intricate interactions between neoplastic cells and immune populations within the tumor microenvironment (TME), yet the temporal organization of these processes remains insufficiently defined. While tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs), composed of microglia and monocyte-derived macrophages, constitute a major immune population in GBM, microglia play a prominent role in shaping local immunosuppressive niches, thereby limiting cytotoxic lymphocyte infiltration. However, static co-culture models constrain interrogation of dynamic tumor-immune signaling.We utilized a programmable multi-inlet microfluidic platform that allows sequential, order-specific introduction of immune cells into GBM constructs, enabling controlled interrogation of MG- and natural killer (NK)-mediated interactions under defined temporal conditions. Bulk transcriptomic profiling and single-cell analyses were used to characterize tumor- and immune-associated pathways elicited by distinct temporal configurations.In triculture constructs containing identical populations of GBM cells, microglia, and NK cells, MG-first delivery preferentially activated STAT3-associated immunoregulatory transcriptional programs, whereas NK-first delivery induced cytotoxic and interferon-related gene expression profiles. IL12A expression was selectively increased under NK-first conditions and correlated with immune-active GBM states in patient datasets. STAT3 inhibition reduced MG-associated suppression, increased IL12A expression, and enhanced the response to temozolomide.This programmable spheroid platform not only recapitulates hallmark features of the GBM immune microenvironment but also uncovers temporally regulated pathways arising from sequential cellular interactions. By enabling controlled reconstruction of dynamic tumor-immune signaling, this system offers a versatile strategy for mechanistic investigation and provides a foundation for evaluating immune-modulatory approaches and microenvironment-targeted interventions in GBM and other malignancies.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for Neuro-Oncology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Indole-3-propionic acid (IPA) is documented to improve the effectiveness of tumor immunotherapy via regulating anti-tumor immunity. However, the impacts of IPA in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients undergoing sintilimab combined with bevacizumab (SCB) treatment remain unknown. This study investigated the effects and underlying mechanisms of IPA in SCB-treated HCC. Serum, tumor tissue, fecal and lymph node tissue samples were collected from HCC patients with or without a response to SCB therapy. Humanized orthotopic and subcutaneous HCC NOG mouse models were established. IPA-treated mouse dendritic cells (DCs) were co-cultured with mouse CD8+ T-cells, which were subsequently co-cultured with Hepa1-6 cells. IPA levels were elevated in the serum, tumor tissues, and feces of responders, and serum IPA levels were positively correlated with the proportion of IFN-γ+CD8+ T cells in tumor tissues as well asac-H3K27 and IL-12A levels in lymph node DCs. IPA amplified the suppressive impact of SCB on tumor growth in HCC mice. Moreover, IPA increased ac-H3K27 and IL-12A levels in DCs and upregulated effector CD8+ T-cell immunity in HCC mice. Administration of a CD8-neutralizing antibody and injection of shIL-12A-transfected DCs weakened IPA-mediated inhibition of HCC in vivo. Furthermore, the ac-H3K27 inhibitor A-485 suppressed IL-12A expression and effector CD8+ T-cell immunity induced by IPA, thereby promoting the proliferation, invasion, and migration of Hepa1-6 cells in vitro. These findings demonstrate that IPA enhances the effect of SCB-treated HCC by upregulating H3K27 acetylation to promote IL-12A expression in DCs, thereby potentiating CD8+ T-cell immunity, which provides a basis for its potential use as a clinical adjuvant therapy.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Science published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.
Pterygium is a common ocular surface disorder with multifactorial etiology involving environmental exposure and immune dysregulation. Interleukin-12 (IL-12), a key immunomodulatory cytokine, has been implicated in inflammation and tumor-related processes, yet its genetic contribution to pterygium remains unclear. This study aimed to evaluate the association between IL-12A polymorphisms and pterygium susceptibility.A hospital-based case-control study was conducted, including 160 pterygium patients and 320 age- and sex-matched controls. Genotyping of IL-12A rs568408 and rs2243115 was performed via restriction fragment length polymorphism methods.Both polymorphisms were in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium among controls (p=0.2165 and p=0.5533). No significant differences in genotype distributions were observed between cases and controls for rs568408 (p for trend=0.5727) or rs2243115 (p for trend=0.5471). The rs568408 AG and AA genotypes showed non-significant associations with pterygium risk (OR=1.14, 95%CI=0.72-1.78, p=0.6603; OR=1.63, 95% CI=0.59-4.49, p=0.4950). Similarly, allelic analyses revealed no significant associations (as for rs568408, OR=1.21, 95%CI=0.84-1.76, p=0.3527; as for rs2243115, OR=1.27, 95%CI=0.81-2.01, p=0.3581).Despite the tumor-like and inflammatory characteristics of pterygium, IL-12A polymorphisms were not significantly associated with disease susceptibility. However, IL-12-mediated immune pathways may still contribute to disease pathogenesis through functional regulation rather than genetic variation. Further large-scale and mechanistic studies are warranted.Copyright © 2026, International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
The present study aimed to characterize the immune response, differential gene expression, and functional alterations observed following an in vivo challenge of Classical Swine Fever Virus (CSFV) in crossbred pigs. RNA-sequencing was performed on whole blood samples collected from three pigs before and at 7 days post-infection. A total of 3428 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified, including 970 significantly upregulated and 261 downregulated genes (|log2 fold change| ≥ 1.5, adjusted p < 0.05). The most prominent DEG was LAMB4, a gene associated with cellular attachment receptors facilitating CSFV binding to porcine cells. Several cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction genes, such as CXCL12, CCL2, CCR1, and IL10RA, were upregulated, indicating a strong activation of innate immune responses. Simultaneously, multiple adaptive immune genes, including CD28, CD83, SLA-DQB1, and IL1A, IL12A, IL26 were downregulated, suggesting viral-mediated suppression of antigen presentation and T-cell signaling. Pathway analysis highlighted the involvement of platelet activation and coagulation cascades during viral evasion. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) analysis revealed a core antiviral module comprising MX1, MX2, ISG15, IFIH1, OASL, IFIT1, and UBE2L6, which are central to interferon signaling and viral restriction. Transcription factors such as ETV7, TOX3, and MSC were upregulated, pointing to immune modulation and possible T-cell exhaustion. Conversely, downregulation of HES1, PRDM6, and MYOG indicated impaired lymphocyte differentiation and tissue repair. Overall, the findings suggest a dual host response to CSFV, with strong innate activation alongside adaptive immune suppression, providing valuable insights for vaccine and therapeutic development.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Enhancing innate-adaptive immune crosstalk is key for improving cancer vaccine efficacy. TRIMELVax is a heat shock-conditioned whole-tumor-cell vaccine combining xenogeneic melanoma cell lysate, syngeneic B16F10 melanoma cell lysate, and Concholepas concholepas hemocyanin. Although TRIMELVax elicits robust antitumor responses in preclinical models, the mechanisms underlying its efficacy remain poorly defined. We characterized the early immune events triggered by TRIMELVax in mice using RT-qPCR, high-dimensional flow cytometry, immunohistochemistry, CFSE-based dendritic cell (DC) migration assays, and therapeutic melanoma models with transient neutrophil depletion. TRIMELVax elicited a rapid inflammatory response at the vaccination site, characterized by local upregulation of CXCL3, CXCL5, CXCL9, CCL3, CCL4, CCL12, IL-1β, IL-6/OSM, IL-12a, and G-CSF. This response drove an early influx of neutrophils and monocytes, followed by increased accumulation of cDC1, cDC2, and monocyte-derived DCs. Notably, we identified a transient population of neutrophils expressing markers associated with antigen-presenting cells (CD45⁺, CD11b⁺, Ly6G⁺, CD11c⁺, MHC-II⁺) that emerged within 12-24 hours postvaccination. These APC-like neutrophils colocalized with cDC1 at the injection site and subsequently migrated to the popliteal draining lymph nodes (pLN). Neutrophil depletion impaired cDC1 migration, reduced APC accumulation in pLN, and abolished the therapeutic efficacy of TRIMELVax. Together, these findings identify neutrophils as key early regulators of the innate inflammatory environment induced by TRIMELVax and suggest that neutrophils with APC-like features may impact DC trafficking and downstream antitumor immunity. Neutrophils, particularly those with APC-like phenotypes, emerge as promising cellular adjuvant targets for enhancing cancer vaccination strategies, offering a new avenue for rational vaccine design and combination with checkpoint blockade therapies.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), the most common primary liver cancer, exhibits metabolic reprogramming with disrupted cholesterol metabolism as a key feature. Lecithin-cholesterol acyltransferase (LCAT) contributes to HCC development, but its exact on cogenic mechanisms remain unclear. This study aims to investigate the role of LCAT in hepatocarcinogenesis and elucidate its underlying molecular mechanisms in HCC.The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), GEPIA, and Kaplan-Meier plotter databases were used to analyze LCAT expression and perform survival analysis and functional enrichment analysis. Clinical paired samples were collected to evaluate LCAT expression and observed changes in cholesterol metabolism levels Liver-specific Lcat knockout mice were constructed to investigate the hepatocarcinogenesis effect of LCAT. Loss-of-function studies were performed to confirm the molecular mechanism of LCAT in HCC. Finally, investigated the correlation between LCAT and immune infiltration.LCAT expression level was down-regulated in HCC patients and low LCAT level was associated with poor prognosis. International Cancer Genome Consortium (ICGC) data reveal dysregulated cholesterol metabolism in HCC, further validated by clinical evidence of metabolic aberrations in patients Besides, we constructed DEN induced HCC model using Alb-Cre; Lcatfl/fl mice and found that liver-specific Lcat knockout promoted cancerogenesis through ERK pathway. Meanwhile, knockdown of LCAT significantly promoted proliferation, migration, and invasion in Huh7 cell. Finally, immune infiltration analysis showed that LCAT was significantly related to immune infiltration, and LCAT expression was significantly associated with more than 10 immune checkpoint markers such as IL12A, VTCN1, BTLA, and TIGIT.This study first explored the biological functions of LCAT in HCC based on in vitro and in vivo experiments. Our results indicate that LCAT deficiency correlates with aggressive HCC progression and immunosuppression, suggesting its potential as a prognostic biomarker. Given its role in modulating the HCC microenvironment, LCAT warrants further investigation as a predictive marker for immunotherapy response.© 2026 Gao et al.
Porokeratosis (PK) encompasses genetically heterogeneous keratinization disorders, with disseminated superficial actinic porokeratosis (DSAP) and porokeratosis ptychotropica (PPt) as distinct subtypes. Although MVK is a known causative gene, how different variants drive distinct phenotypes remains unclear. Through whole-exome sequencing of two DSAP patients, we identified an MVK variant (c.439G > A, p.Ala147Thr) cataloged as likely pathogenic in ClinVar yet uncharacterized functionally in DSAP keratinocytes. A previously reported PPt-associated variant (c.64G > A) was included for comparison. We established HaCaT cells stably overexpressing each mutant via lentiviral transduction and validated expression by qPCR and Western blot. Integrated transcriptomic and proteomic analyses identified differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and proteins (DEPs) across MVK439 versus control, MVK64 versus control, and MVK439 versus MVK64 groups, followed by GO and KEGG enrichment. Transcriptomic profiling revealed 231, 1,849, and 2,329 DEGs in the respective comparisons. Proteomic screening identified 2,673 DEPs, with 42 shared across all groups, 77 specifically associated with c.439G > A, and 832 linked to c.64G > A. Integrated analysis suggested IL12A and pIgR as potential contributors to c.439G > A-driven DSAP, while CXCL11, CXCL9, and TNFRSF12A may mediate c.64G > A-induced PPt. These findings offer new insights into MVK function and PK pathogenesis, warranting validation in larger cohorts.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Institute of Plant Genetics Polish Academy of Sciences.
Monocyte-derived DC therapies programmed for robust IL-12p70 production have been associated with favorable outcomes in cancer clinical trials. However, clinical responses remain inconsistent even under standardized protocols, and the cellular basis for this variability is unknown. We leveraged single-cell multiomics to characterize two widely used DC platforms, the high-IL-12p70-producing alpha-Type-1-polarized DC (αDC1) and the IL-12p70-deficient DC induced in the presence of PGE2 (PGE2-DC), at baseline and following rhCD40L activation. DC generated from 7 healthy participants representing the spectrum of rhCD40L-induced IL-12p70 production were profiled by transcriptome analysis with concurrent 42-plex surface proteomics, multiplex ELISA, and ELISpot quantification of IL-12p70-producing cells. While αDC1 and PGE2-DC distinctly responded to rhCD40L, αDC1 alone unexpectedly comprised 3 transcriptionally and phenotypically distinct subpopulations in resting and stimulated states. Only a limited fraction of αDC1 coexpressed IL12A and IL12B (IL-12p70 producers), which was confirmed by ELISpot at the protein level. The distribution of αDC1 subclusters varied markedly between individuals and correlated with bulk cytokine and chemokine secretion profiles. Heterogeneity within αDC1 preparations may underlie inconsistent clinical trial outcomes, and identification of associated surface proteins provides a prospective strategy for subcluster enrichment to enhance DC release criteria and patient stratification for optimized therapeutic efficacy.
Oxidative stress and the tumor immune microenvironment jointly shape hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) progression and response to immunotherapy, yet integrated biomarkers linking these processes are lacking.Transcriptomic and clinical data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) datasets were used to identify oxidative stress- and immunotherapyrelated differentially expressed genes (OSIRDEGs). Functional enrichment, weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) and LASSO-Cox regression were used to construct a prognostic signature. Consensus clustering, TIDE, CIBERSORT and ssGSEA characterized immune phenotypes. Somatic mutation, copy-number and drug-response data were integrated to assess genomic alterations and drug sensitivity. Expression of model genes was validated by qRT-PCR and western blotting in HCC cell lines.We identified 24 OSIRDEGs enriched in cell-cycle and mitotic pathways. WGCNA intersection yielded 18 module genes, from which a six-gene signature (BUB1B, CDKN2A, CENPE, HMMR, PTTG1, SPP1) was derived. The signature robustly stratified patients into high- and low-risk groups with significantly different progression-free and disease-free survival in both TCGA-LIHC and GSE14520. Based on signature expression, two molecular subtypes were defined, exhibiting distinct survival, immune landscapes and predicted immunotherapy responsiveness. Model genes harbored recurrent alterations and showed significant correlations with anticancer agents. All six genes were upregulated at mRNA and protein levels in metastatic HCC cell lines versus normal hepatocytes.We systematically explored the landscape of OSIRDEGs in HCC, and proposed a validated six-gene signature that refines prognostic stratification, delineates immunerelevant HCC subtypes and highlights candidate biomarkers for therapeutic selection and mechanistic investigation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Pancreatic cancer (PC) is known to be a highly fatal malignancy, and elucidating new molecular mechanisms is of great importance. In this study, we investigated NECTIN4 (PVRL4), which is associated with poor prognosis, via bioinformatics approach. We used following tools and datasets: For differential gene expression analysis, TCGA TARGET GTEx study on UCSC Xena, GSE183795, GSE71729 and GSE196009 GEO datasets; for associations with clinicopathological and promoter methylation features, UALCAN; for correlations with overall survival (OS), disease-free survival (DFS) gene chip database, and for correlations with OS and relapse-free survival (RFS) RNAseq database in the Kaplan-Meier (KM) plotter; for correlations with OS and Progression-Free Interval (PFI), DoSurvive; for immune infiltration correlations, TIMER3; for expression changes in hotspot mutations, GEPIA 3; for potentially related pathways, diseases, and processes, the Gscore online tool; for gene alterations detections, cBioPortal; and identifying potential targeting miRNAs, miRDB, TargetScanHuman 8.0, ENCORI, and DoSurvive. NECTIN4 (PVRL4) is upregulated in primary pancreatic adenocarcinoma in TCGA TARGET GTEx study (log2FC=2.015633, adj.P.Val=4.62E-21) and in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas in GSE183795 (log2FC=0.726, adj.P.Val=10-16.895) GSE196009 (log2FC=2.807, adj.P.Val=10-3.855) GSE71729 (log2FC= 1.227, adj.P.Val=10-10.318) datasets, and may be associated with unfavorable OS (p = 3.63E-02) and PFI (p = 8.09E-03) independent of age at diagnosis, sex, and stage in DoSurvive. In KM plotter RNA seq database, increased NECTIN4 (PVRL4) expression was statistically significantly associated only with shortened OS (p = 0.008). NECTIN4 (PVRL4) expressions are higher in the following traits than in others: In Asians compared to normals (p = 4.949700E-02) and Caucasian (p = 4.480000E-03); in chronic pancreatitis patients from normals (p=3.456300E-02); in grade 2 (p = 2.420600E-04) and grade 3 (p = 1.875500E-03) from grade 1; in TP53 mutants from nonmutants (p = 7.6379999999987E-05). NECTIN4 (PVRL4) correlates positively or negatively with many immune cell types, some of which are also associated with OS. NECTIN4 is upregulated in KRAS (log2FC=1.78, p = 1.05E-17), TP53 (log2FC=0.959, p = 1.22E-05), SMAD4 (log2FC=1.02, p = 0.000111), CDKN2A (log2FC=0.668, p = 0.0144), and RNF43 (log2FC=0.917, p = 0.0393) mutant samples. NECTIN4 (PVRL4) is associated with many pathways, processes, and diseases these may be related to PC. Six patients have amplification, and one patient has a splice mutation. hsa-miR-329-3p and hsa-miR-5586-5p may be potential negative regulatory miRNAs of NECTIN4 (PVRL4). NECTIN4 (PVRL4) may be associated with many pathways awaiting experimental illumination in PC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Adoptive T cell therapy requires T cells to infiltrate vascular tissues and preserve immune function. In solid tumor treatment, however, the surrounding microenvironment produces abnormal vasculature that impedes T cell infiltration. An approach that enables vascular normalization and enhances adoptive T cell function in parallel is essential for effective therapy but has not been reported. Here, we report the use of lenvatinib (LEN) to induce transient vascular normalization, thereby facilitating T cell infiltration. Moreover, LEN enhances T cell persistence by promoting the differentiation of T cells toward a memory phenotype. Our results indicate that the differentiation is by suppressing the PI3K-AKT-mTOR pathway, which drives effector differentiation, and by activating FOXO1, a transcription factor that promotes memory formation. To coordinate the transient vascular normalization and T cell enhancement, we link LEN-loaded, PD-L1-blocking micelles to T cells through acid-labile click chemistry, forming pH-responsive T cell-nanodrug conjugates. The conjugates synchronize the intratumoral release of LEN and the PD-L1 antagonist peptide OPBP-1, thereby coordinating vascular normalization, T cell differentiation, and checkpoint blockade. In vivo, the conjugates increased intratumoral CD8+ T cells and splenic memory T cells by over sixfold in B16-OVA tumors and achieved complete regression in a subset of MC38-OVA tumors without systemic toxicity, providing a promising strategy for solid tumor immunotherapy.
Traditional histological classification of meningiomas has low prognostic accuracy and necessitates integration of molecular biomarkers. However, current data are fragmented and require rigorous synthesis.To develop a meta-analysis protocol for quantitative assessment of the influence of molecular profile of meningiomas on long-term outcomes (overall survival and recurrence-free period) after surgical or combined treatment.The article provides historical analysis of transformation of evidence-based medicine standards from narrative reviews to algorithmic guidelines (QUOROM, MOOSE, PRISMA). The choice of the PRISMA-P 2020 protocol and Cochrane methodology as the standard for this study is justified.A meta-analysis design was developed to assess the impact of genetic profile (TERT, CDKN2A/B, NF2 status, DNA methylation) on the risk of recurrence. Inclusion criteria (PICOTS) cover all types of meningiomas. The protocol regulates searching strategy, independent screening (Rayyan) and risk of bias assessment using the QUIPS tool. Statistical synthesis of data is planned to identify the hierarchy of risk factors.Implementation of this protocol will ensure creation of a valid evidence base for stratification of risk of meningioma recurrence based on molecular genetic profile.
Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a chronic inflammatory bowel disorder with limited therapeutic options, particularly those capable of selectively reinforcing intestinal epithelial barrier integrity while preserving immune homeostasis. Here, Rhoifolin (3, 10 mg/kg) dose-dependently alleviates DSS and TNBS-induced colitis in mice. Mechanistically, Rhoifolin selectively potentiates ILC3s effector function without affecting their proliferation, apoptosis, intestinal homing, developmental differentiation, or the distribution of CCR6+, NKp46+, and double-negative ILC3s subsets. This functional enhancement promotes IL-22 production, thereby reinforcing epithelial barrier integrity in colonic epithelial cells and organoids. Integrated transcriptomics and untargeted metabolomics identified nicotinamide salvage as a central metabolic program driving ILC3s functional enhancement. NMNAT1 was identified as a direct molecular target of Rhoifolin. Molecular docking and dynamic simulations pinpointed Leu155 as a critical residue mediating Rhoifolin-NMNAT1 interaction, and mutation of Leu155 antagonized metabolic activation and IL-22 induction. Consistently, Rhoifolin-induced NAD+ elevation enhanced SIRT1 activity, leading to FOXO1 deacetylation and nuclear translocation. Further CUT&Tag-qPCR demonstrated FOXO1 enrichment at Il22 promoter, driving IL-22 transcription in ILC3s. Collectively, our findings identify Rhoifolin as a potent ILC3s effector function enhancer and uncover a previously unrecognized NMNAT1-NAD+-SIRT1-FOXO1 axis linking immunometabolic and epigenetic regulation to intestinal barrier protection, highlighting ILC3s empowerment as a promising therapeutic strategy for UC.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Acute hypoxic exposure combined with exhaustive exercise can impair exercise performance and induce metabolic, inflammatory, oxidative, and tissue stress. Cycloastragenol, a bioactive constituent of Astragalus membranaceus, has shown antioxidant and tissue-protective potential, but its role in acute hypoxic exercise stress remains unclear. This study investigated whether cycloastragenol pretreatment attenuates fatigue- and injury-related responses in mice.A combined exploratory network pharmacology and animal experimental approach was used. Eighty-four male C57BL/6 J mice were randomly assigned to seven groups: blank control, model control (MC), normoxic exercise, Rhodiola rosea positive control (300 mg/kg/day), and low-, medium-, and high-dose cycloastragenol groups (25, 50, and 100 mg/kg/day). Pretreatments were administered by oral gavage once daily for 40 days. The MC, positive-control, and cycloastragenol groups then underwent continuous 24-h simulated hypobaric hypoxia equivalent to 5,000 m, followed by treadmill running to exhaustion. Outcomes included exhaustion time, serum biochemical and inflammatory markers, gastrocnemius ATPase activities, representative histopathology, and selected protein-expression endpoints. Data were analyzed using one-way ANOVA with Dunnett's test, eta squared, and Cohen's d.Network pharmacology identified 116 overlapping targets and suggested HIF-1, PI3K-Akt, FoxO, and IL-17 signaling as hypothesis-generating pathways. Compared with MC, high-dose cycloastragenol prolonged exhaustion time (133.67 ± 7.45 vs. 96.92 ± 9.42 min; d = +4.33; p < 0.001), reduced BUN (16.14 ± 1.21 vs. 23.38 ± 1.61 mmol/L; d = -5.09; p < 0.001), lactate (7.72 ± 1.77 vs. 16.27 ± 2.62 mmol/L; d = -3.82; p < 0.001), MDA (1.08 ± 0.07 vs. 1.20 ± 0.10 nmol/mg; d = -1.41; p < 0.01), IL-6 (14.92 ± 1.00 vs. 28.69 ± 1.41 pg./mL; p < 0.001), and TNF-α (51.31 ± 2.18 vs. 114.93 ± 1.84 ng/mL; p < 0.001), while increasing T-SOD activity and Na + -K + -ATPase activity. Representative HE images and Western blot results suggested qualitative tissue protection and modulation of HIF-1alpha, FoxO1, Nrf2, and HO-1 expression.Cycloastragenol pretreatment was associated with improved tolerance to acute hypoxic exhaustive exercise and attenuation of metabolic, inflammatory, oxidative, and tissue-related responses in mice. Direct hepatic glycogen, muscle glycogen, and blood glucose endpoints were not measured; further mechanistic and translational studies are needed.Copyright © 2026 Liu, Zhang, Jia, Gu, Xi and Zhang.
Phthalate esters are pervasive endocrine-disrupting chemicals associated with metabolic disorders, but their contribution to metabolic-associated fatty liver disease (MAFLD) remains unclear. We investigated shared targets and pathways linking eight phthalate-related compounds to MAFLD using network toxicology, transcriptomic data mining, molecular docking, and cellular validation. Integrated analysis identified 75 predicted phthalate-related targets, including 41 MAFLD-associated genes enriched in lipid metabolism and inflammatory pathways. Cross-analysis of three GEO datasets prioritized 14 candidate genes, with PPARG, PTGS2, ESR1, PPARA, and BCL2 showing high network centrality. Molecular docking predicted favorable interactions between the tested compounds and candidate proteins, with monobenzyl phthalate (MBeP) showing the highest predicted affinity. In palmitic acid-oleic acid (PA-OA) -treated HepG2 cells, MBeP increased lipid accumulation, reactive oxygen species generation, apoptosis, and mitochondrial membrane depolarization and altered selected candidate genes. In primary mouse hepatocytes, MBeP similarly increased lipid accumulation and reactive oxygen species generation and altered PTGS2 and PPARA protein expression. These findings identify candidate targets and pathways potentially involved in MBeP-associated hepatic lipid dysregulation and support further mechanistic investigation of phthalate-related effects in MAFLD.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Acral melanoma (AM) exhibits significant intratumoral heterogeneity, but its tumor microenvironment (TME) and immune regulation remain unclear. This study aims to dissect TME heterogeneity and establish a prognostic model based on key cell subpopulations.We collected AM single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and bulk RNA-seq data from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) and the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). Unsupervised clustering, CellChat, and Scissor analysis were performed to characterize cellular heterogeneity, cell-cell communication, and prognosis-related cell subpopulations. Kaplan-Meier analysis was used to assess the prognostic value of key genes, which were further validated by multiplex immunohistochemistry (mIHC).In AM, Mel_C2, C7, and C9 with high SEMA6A and KIT expression were strongly linked to poor prognosis. We further identified a senescent fibroblast subpopulation (sCAF_CDKN2A) characterized by high fibroblast senescence signature (FSS) scores. Integrating Scissor analysis of fibroblast subtypes with bulk prognostic data, we identified COL3A1, VCAN, and KIT as prognosis-associated genes upregulated in poor-outcome-related fibroblast subsets. Cell-cell communication analysis revealed that sCAF_CDKN2A engages in an immunosuppressive network, interacting with regulatory T cells (Tregs) via MIF signaling and receiving signals from exhausted CD8+ T cells through PPIA-BSG interactions. Using transcription factor expression patterns from these fibroblast subtypes, we constructed a prognostic model that effectively stratified patients into distinct risk groups with significant differences in overall survival (OS). mIHC confirmed significantly higher protein levels of SEMA6A and COL3A1 in tumor tissues compared to matched normal tissues.We established a novel prognostic model for AM and identified sCAF_CDKN2A as an immunosuppressive senescent fibroblast subpopulation driving poor prognosis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Central nervous system solitary fibrous tumors (CNS SFTs) are rare mesenchymal neoplasms. The 2021 World Health Organization (WHO) classification recognizes a single SFT entity characterized by NAB2::STAT6-associated biology. This study evaluated clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical features, with particular emphasis on STAT6, CD34, and p16 expression.We retrospectively reviewed 25 CNS SFTs identified between 2004 and 2024. Clinical, radiologic, histologic, immunohistochemical, treatment, and outcome data were collected. Histologic slides were reviewed by two neuropathologists. Immunohistochemistry for STAT6, CD34, and p16 was performed; molecular testing was unavailable.The cohort included 13 men and 12 women, with a mean age of 51 years. Among tumors with available site data, most were intracranial. WHO grades were grade 1 in 40%, grade 2 in 24%, and grade 3 in 36%. Nuclear STAT6 expression was present in all cases. CD34 expression was greatest in grade 1 tumors, whereas p16 expression was numerically highest in grade 3 tumors; neither marker showed a statistically significant association with recurrence. Tumor size increased across WHO grades. Outcome analyses were limited by few events and heterogeneous follow-up.CNS SFTs are clinicopathologically heterogeneous. STAT6 was a consistent diagnostic marker in this cohort. CD34 and p16 showed grade-related numerical patterns, but their prognostic value was not established. Larger, molecularly confirmed cohorts with standardized long-term follow-up are required.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Motivated by the rising incidence of cancers at younger ages, this study compares tumor genomic alterations between adolescents and young adults (AYAs; 18-39 years) and non-AYAs (40 years and older) and explores the relationship with continuous age in patients with relapsed/refractory ovarian, breast, and colorectal cancers accrued to the NCI-MATCH trial.Tumor genomic profiles generated by a next-generation sequencing 143-gene panel (NCI-MATCH assay, v2) were analyzed for association with age (AYA/total: 21/455 ovarian, 27/576 breast, 43/759 colorectal cancers). For each gene, AYA and non-AYA DNA alteration proportions were compared (Fisher exact test) and alteration association with continuous age (logistic regression) was evaluated (false discovery rate‑adjusted P value <.1 statistically significant). For colorectal cancer, sex-stratified analysis was also performed.No significant AYA versus non-AYA differences were observed in the prevalence of gene mutations (single nucleotide variant [SNV]/indel). A significant association of gene amplification with AYAs (odds ratio [OR], 95% CI) was CCND1 (0.2, 0.1-0.4), favoring AYAs in breast cancer. Examining age as a continuous variable, significant associations of gene mutations (SNV/indel) with older age, expressed as 5-year OR (OR [95% CI]), were observed: TP53 (1.3 [1.1 to 1.4]), ovarian cancer; CDH1 (1.4 [1.2 to 1.6]) and PIK3CA (1.1 [1.1 to 1.2]), breast cancer; and BRAF (1.4 [1.2 to 1.7]), female colorectal cancer. Associations with younger age included SMAD4 (0.8 [0.7 to 0.9]), male colorectal cancer. Significant associations of gene amplification with age (continuous) were as follows: CCNE1 (1.3 [1.1 to 1.6]), older ovarian cancer, and CCND1 (0.8 [0.8 to 0.9]), younger breast cancer.Comparing AYAs with non-AYAs among patients having relapsed/refractory disease, no significant differences in SNV/indel prevalence were observed, but CCND1 amplifications were more prevalent in AYA breast cancer. For several genes, DNA alterations were associated with continuous age and may depend on sex in colorectal cancer.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42558047
To optimize the extraction-purification process of Dendrobium officinale polysaccharides (DOPs) and characterize the fine structures of two homogeneous fractions (DOP-1, DOP-2), as well as to evaluate their anti-photoaging activity on HFF cells.An integrated process including petroleum ether defatting, cellulase hydrolysis, water extraction-ethanol precipitation, trypsin-Sevag deproteinization, activated carbon decolorization, and dialysis was used. DOP-1 and DOP-2 were separated by DEAE-52 and Sephadex G-100 chromatography. Their structures were analyzed by FT-IR, methylation-GC/MS, NMR, and SEM. Anti-photoaging effects were assessed via CCK-8, SA-β-Gal staining, and qPCR of TGF-β/Smad pathway genes.The optimized process increased crude polysaccharide yield from 30.34% to 35.03% and polysaccharide content from 31.23% to 49.34%. DOP-1 (Mn 989 Da, PDI 1.15) was a linear oligosaccharide composed of →4)-β-D-Manp (72.32%) and →4)-β-D-Glcp (23.78%) in an alternating pattern. DOP-2 (Mn 2970 Da, PDI 1.67) was a branched polysaccharide with a backbone of →6)-α-D-Glcp (58.06%) and branches at →2,6)-Manp and →4,6)-Glcp. Both DOP-1 and DOP-2 (62.5 μg/mL) protected HFF cells from UVA-induced photoaging, upregulated TGF-β1, Smad3, Smad4, and Collagen I, and downregulated Smad7 and MMP-1, with DOP-2 showing dose-dependent effects.The optimized process enables efficient preparation of DOPs. DOP-1 and DOP-2 possess distinct structural features and exert anti-photoaging effects via regulation of the TGF-β/Smad signaling pathway.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Over the decades, shifts in human lifestyle have led to alterations in dietary habits. The consumption of diets low in fiber and high in fat and sugar results in the production of carcinogenic metabolites during digestion. The food we consume undergoes a complex series of processes involving digestion and excretion, engaging various internal organs within the human body. The DNA and MiRNA present in food are crucial for sustaining human health. Damage to human organs can lead to the development of cancer cells. Among various cancers, Colorectal Cancer (CRC) is the 3rd most common cancer that contributes to the increase in the mortality rate worldwide.One of the better ways for early CRC diagnosis is through Genomic Profiling. Frequent mutations in the genes APC, TP53, KRAS, PIK3CA, and SMAD4 are observed in the collected samples, contributing to CRC. An effort has been made in the proposed work to improve classification and prediction by using a deep ensemble learning approach based on a self-attention-based stacked bidirectional LSTM, optimized with the Parallel-Whale Optimization Algorithm (WOA) for global convergence, following a feature selection process. Furthermore, the survival analysis of CRC patients is performed using the DeepSurv technique to assess treatment effectiveness and patient care.The performance of the proposed model is evaluated using various metrics for stage-based colorectal cancer prediction, and a comparative analysis is conducted to validate against benchmarking techniques, resulting in improved classification and prediction accuracy.This study may help physicians detect CRC earlier and improve patient management.Copyright © 2026 Supriya and Anitha.
Aortic dissection (AD) is a life-threatening cardiovascular disease with exceedingly high mortality, particularly during the acute phase. Ubiquitination modification is implicated in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular diseases through diverse biological processes. However, the role of TRIM9, an E3 ubiquitin ligase, in AD remains unexplored. In this study, the expression profiles of TRIM9 and SMAD4 were analyzed using clinical samples, as well as Angiotensin II (Ang II)-induced mouse and human aortic endothelial cell (HAEC) models. Endothelial barrier function in AD was assessed through CCK-8 assays, vascular permeability measurements, immunofluorescence staining, hematoxylin-eosin and Verhoeff's van Gieson staining, and Western blot analysis. The underlying molecular mechanisms were elucidated using quantitative real-time PCR, immunoprecipitation (IP), co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP), and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). TRIM9 was markedly overexpressed, whereas SMAD4 was significantly downregulated in AD. Knockdown of TRIM9 attenuated endothelial permeability, preserved the endothelial barrier integrity, and inhibited pyroptosis both in vivo and in vitro. Mechanistically, TRIM9 promoted the ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of SMAD4, thereby exacerbating AD progression. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that elevated TRIM9 expression aggravates AD progression through SMAD4 destabilization, offering novel therapeutic insights for AD management.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide and is characterized by an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME). While adaptive immunity contributes to tumor control, growing evidence underscores the role of innate lymphocytes, particularly natural killer (NK) cells, in early antitumor surveillance. However, tumor-infiltrating NK cells often exhibit defective maturation and impaired effector functions, whereas the signals regulating NK cell differentiation and activity in CRC remain poorly defined. Interleukin-27 (IL-27) has emerged as a regulator of antitumor immunity, yet its role in modulating NK cell responses in intestinal tumors is largely unexplored.We employed an orthotopic transplantation model of genetically engineered colorectal tumor organoids Apc-/-KrasG12D/+Trp53R172H/-Smad4-/- (AKPS) to investigate NK cell heterogeneity, maturation, and function during CRC progression. Tumor-infiltrating innate lymphocytes were analyzed using single-cell RNA sequencing, flow cytometry, immunofluorescence, and functional assays. In vitro co-culture systems and in vivo IL-27 blockade were used to assess the impact of tumor-derived IL-27 on NK cell transcriptional programs and effector activity.Single-cell transcriptomic profiling revealed marked heterogeneity among tumor-infiltrating NK cells, identifying subsets with different maturation states and functional capacities. Among innate lymphocytes, AKPS tumors were dominated by NK cells displaying reduced activating receptors and diminished cytotoxic and cytokine-producing potential. Phenotypic and adoptive transfer analyses demonstrated that the TME favors persistence of immature CD27+ NK cell subsets while limiting differentiated NK cells. Mechanistically, tumor-derived IL-27 emerged as a critical regulator sustaining NK cell infiltration and activation; IL-27 blockade reduced NK cell accumulation, interferon-γ production, and immature subset frequency. The clinical relevance of these findings was supported by analysis of human CRC single-cell datasets, which revealed elevated IL-27 signaling in intratumoral NK cells, as well as by the ability of patient-derived organoids to enhance NK-cell cytotoxicity, which was reduced by IL-27 blockade.Our study identifies IL-27 as a critical modulator of NK cell differentiation and function in CRC, highlighting its role in sustaining NK cell-mediated immune surveillance within the tumor microenvironment. These findings provide mechanistic insight into NK cell dysfunction in CRC and suggest IL-27 signaling as a promising therapeutic target to restore innate antitumor immunity.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia (HHT) is an autosomal‑dominant vascular disease characterized by telangiectasias and visceral arteriovenous malformations (AVMs), commonly in the lungs, liver, and brain. HHT is linked to mutations in the genes Activin A Receptor Like Type 1 (ACVRL1), Endoglin (ENG), and SMAD Family Member 4 (SMAD4). The ACVRL1 gene encodes the receptor ACVRL1 (Activin A Receptor Like Type 1), also known as ALK1 (Activin Receptor-Like Kinase 1), and belongs to the Transforming Growth Factor-Beta (TGFβ) Superfamily of receptors. Approximately 20% of patients with ACVRL1-associated HHT develop pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). [1] In pediatric PAH cohorts, ACVRL1 mutations account for nearly 10% of identified genetic variants. [2] The reduced penetrance of PAH among ACVRL1 mutation carriers suggests that additional modifiers account for PAH development. [3]. Given the relevance of the bone‑morphogenetic‑protein (BMP) pathway to the pathogenesis of PAH, and the intimate relationship of TGFβ superfamily signaling partners including ACVRL1 and BMPR2, genes which modify BMP-TGFβ signaling balance may contribute to PAH development in children with ACVRL1‑positive HHT. One such gene is SMAD9 (Receptor Regulated SMAD 9); the protein product of SMAD 9 (SMAD8) which mediates downstream TGFβ signaling. Herein, we report what we believe to be the youngest reported case of PAH in ACVRL1‑mediated HHT, in a patient who co‑harbors a SMAD9 mutation.© 2026 The Author(s). Pulmonary Circulation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Pulmonary Vascular Research Institute.
Background: Comprehensive genomic profiling (CGP) is increasingly incorporated into the management of biliary tract tumors (BTTs); however, single-center real-world data integrating clinical utility and site-specific genomic landscape remain limited. Methods: This retrospective single-center observational study included 91 patients with BTTs who underwent CGP. The primary endpoints were the rates of potentially actionable genomic alterations, expert panel-based therapeutic options, and implementation of genomically matched therapy. Secondary endpoints included the distribution of recurrent and clinically relevant genomic alterations according to the primary tumor site. Results: The cohort included 46 patients with intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (iCCA), 19 with extrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (eCCA), 24 with gallbladder cancer (GBC), and 2 with ampullary tumors. CGP was successfully performed in all 91 patients. Reportable genomic alterations were detected in 88 patients (96.7%), whereas no reportable alteration was detected in three patients (3.3%). The most frequently altered genes were TP53 (51/91, 56.0%), KRAS (21/91, 23.1%), CDKN2A (18/91, 19.8%), SMAD4 (14/91, 15.4%), and ARID1A/PBRM1 (12/91, 13.2%). Potentially actionable genomic alterations were identified in 21 patients (23.1%). Expert panel-based therapeutic options were identified in 15 patients (16.5%), and genomically matched therapy was introduced in 7 patients (7.7%). Matched therapy was introduced the most frequently in iCCA (6/46, 13%), followed by GBC (1/24, 4.2%), whereas no patient with eCCA or ampullary tumor received matched therapy. Conclusions: CGP revealed a heterogeneous genomic landscape across BTT subtypes and provided clinically actionable information in a limited but meaningful subset of patients. The practical utility of CGP was the greatest in selected molecular subsets, particularly iCCA.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42511877 is a review article
Perimenopause represents a pivotal transitional stage in female reproductive aging, often accompanied by neurological disorders such as cognitive decline. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain incompletely understood.In this study, a total of 18 eight-week-old female Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were randomly divided into the control group and the perimenopausal syndrome (PMS) model group induced by bilateral ovariectomy (OVX). We systematically investigated the regulatory mechanisms of perimenopausal cognitive impairment by integrating behavioral assessments, histopathological examinations, biochemical and molecular validation, as well as multi-omics approaches, including transcriptomics, metabolomics, and ionomics.The results showed that PMS rats displayed marked cognitive deficits alongside evident pathological alterations in hippocampal neurons. Differentially expressed genes were enriched in the inflammatory mediator regulation of transient receptor potential (TRP) channels pathway. Adhesion G protein-coupled receptor L2 (Adgrl2) and calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II delta (Camk2d) were synergistically upregulated, driving activation of the transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) channel, which induced Ca2+ homeostasis imbalance and calcium overload. Adgrl2 was specifically highly expressed in microglia, accompanied by elevated levels of interleukin-6 (IL-6) and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), forming a vicious cycle of Ca2+-inflammation. Metabolomics analysis also revealed widespread metabolic disorders involving pathways such as amino acid and energy metabolism.The Adgrl2-Camk2d-TRPV1 signaling axis is a core driver pathway of perimenopausal cognitive impairment, exacerbating neuronal damage by mediating calcium overload, neuroinflammation, and metabolic disorders. This discovery provides a novel pathological mechanism for perimenopausal cognitive impairment, identifies Adgrl2 and TRPV1 as potential therapeutic targets, and designates Ca2+ as an ideal diagnostic biomarker, offering significant support for clinical diagnosis, treatment, and related theoretical research.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Chai, Yin, Wei, Sun, Wei and Shi.
Identify genetic variants associated with amblyopia in African American (AFR) and Admixed American (AMR) ancestry groups, expanding upon a previous studies conducted in European ancestry.Retrospective ancestry-stratified genome-wide association study (GWAS) and gene-level rare variant association study (RVAS).Participants in the All of Us Research Program from AFR and AMR ancestry groups with whole genome sequencing available. Cases and controls were distinguished based on presence of ICD-9/10/SNOMED diagnosis codes for amblyopia in electronic health records. This yielded ancestry-stratified subsets of 269 cases and 71,585 controls of AMR ancestry and 366 cases and 79,460 controls of AFR ancestry.Stratified logistic regression models adjusted for age, sex, and the top 10 principal components of genomic ancestry. GWAS was limited to common variants (mean allele frequency or MAF > 1%) and RVAS was limited to rare variants with coding sequence-altering effects (MAF < 1%, exonic only, excluded synonymous variants) aggregated at the gene level using the SKAT algorithm. Downstream analyses of the significant variants were performed using KEGG and GO pathway analysis and STRING database queries for protein-protein interactions and gene-gene interactions.Single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were determined to have genome-wide significance if p < 5e-8 in the GWAS and genes were determined to have significant association with amblyopia in the RVAS if p < 8.0 x 10-4.In the AMR GWAS, 245 unique SNPs mapping to 97 distinct loci were identified, notably within neurodevelopmental and axonal guidance genes, including ROBO1, SEMA4B, PTPRD, NRXN1, and CAMK2D. The AFR GWAS identified 11 significant variants corresponding to 6 loci mapping primarily to long-noncoding RNAs and pseudogenes. The AMR RVAS identified 15 genes, including axonal transport genes (KIF1B, KIF7) and growth factor signaling genes (EGF, ERBIN, and AKAP17A). The AFR RVAS identified a single gene, DLG2, which encodes the postsynaptic protein PSD-93, which promotes the closure of the sensitive period of neuroplasticity for vision in early childhood.Genetic risk architectures for amblyopia differ across ancestries but fundamentally converge on neurodevelopmental signaling, cortical synapse assembly, and sensitive period plasticity rather than ocular structural dynamics.Copyright © 2026 American Academy of Ophthalmology, Inc. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Exemestane (EMT) is a third-generation steroidal aromatase inhibitor extensively used in hormone receptor (HR)-positive breast cancer therapy and has been known to exert cardiovascular effects during prolonged treatment. The current study was planned to investigate the dose-dependent cardiotoxic effects of EMT. Thirty-two Sprague Dawley rats were randomly divided into four groups i.e., control group, EMT (5 mg/kg), EMT (15 mg/kg) and EMT (25 mg/kg) groups. Gene expression analysis showed downregulated expression of ATP2A2 (SERCA2a), CACNA1C, NOS3 (eNOS) and KLF2 coupled with marked upregulation in the expression of RYR2, PLN, CAMK2D, VEGFA, EDN1 and ICAM1, suggesting impaired calcium handling and endothelial dysfunction. The antioxidant enzymes (CAT, SOD, GPx, GST, GSR, HO-1 and GSH) were decreased significantly while the concentrations of ROS and MDA were increased in dose-dependent manner after EMT intoxication. Cardiac function assessment by echocardiography showed that EMT caused dose-dependent cardiac dysfunction as evidenced by reduced heart rate, wall thickness and cardiac chamber volumes of the ventricles thereby suggesting progressive ventricular remodeling, myocardial hypertrophy, and chamber enlargement particularly at 25 mg/kg EMT administration. Furthermore, EMT intoxication caused elevation in the levels of CK-MB, CPK, troponins, LDH, BNP, NT-proBNP and CRP. Significant upregulation observed in the levels of NF-κB, TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6 and COX-2 after EMT administration. Moreover, EMT exposure promoted the levels of Bax, Caspase-3 and Caspase-9 while suppressing the levels of Bcl-2. Histopathological analysis demonstrated progressive myocardial degeneration, edema, inflammatory infiltration and peripheral necrosis. Overall, chronic EMT exposure leads to severe, dose-dependent cardiotoxicity, characterized by calcium dysregulation, oxidative stress, inflammatory responses, endothelial dysfunction and apoptosis, and thus warrants cardiac monitoring during prolonged EMT therapy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Mutations in the splice-regulator RBM20 cause heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF), typically manifesting as dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM). Mutations at position 634 in the RS-domain cause DCM with (R634L) or without (R634W) left ventricular non-compaction (LVNC). However, the mechanisms underlying phenotype variability and personalized therapy beyond HFrEF remain unclear. We generated induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes (iPSC-CM), 3D-cardiospheres and engineered myocardial tissues from patients with RBM20 mutations R634L (LVNC) or R634W (DCM). Using CRISPR/Cas9, we created isogenic rescue and mutation-insertion lines, identifying RBM20 mis-localization, splicing errors in TTN and RYR2, and sarcomere irregularities in both. DCM-CM showed increased resting Ca2+ leak and reduced Ca2+ transient amplitude, typical of HFrEF, and spatial disorganization of sarcoplasmic reticulum and mitochondria. In contrast, LVNC-CM exhibited elevated Ca2+ transient amplitude with faster kinetics, driven by elevated cAMP and mis-spliced, hyperactive CAMK2D, leading to PLN-hyperphosphorylation and increased metabolic respiration. Further, LVNC showed desmosomal derangement potentially from mis-splicing of Junction plakoglobin and reduced 3D cardiosphere compaction. Despite distinct mechanisms, contractile force was reduced in both. Isogenic controls confirm mutation causality. Drug intervention with verapamil partially improved selected abnormal Ca2+ handling and contractile phenotypes in LVNC- and DCM-CM, whereas the CAMK2D inhibitor AIP improved systolic Ca2+ handling predominantly in LVNC-CM. In conclusion, different amino acid substitutions at the same RBM20-residue induce opposing Ca2+-handling and structural phenotypes. While DCM features impaired Ca2+ handling, LVNC shows defective cell-cell coupling and activated Ca2+ handling and metabolism, yet insufficient to compensate for organ-level dysfunction. This supports personalized pharmacological therapies in early HF, and potential CRISPR/Cas9 repair for RBM20 cardiomyopathy.© 2026. The Author(s).
To identify rare and common copy number variants (CNVs) associated with strabismus and amblyopia.Case-control association study using structural variant calls from short-read whole-genome sequencing from the All of Us Research Program, including 1224 adults with strabismus, 564 with amblyopia (152 with both), and controls (95,175 for strabismus; 95,319 for amblyopia). Autosomal CNVs were identified using the GATK-SV pipeline. After instituting quality control measures, CNVs present in ≥20 affected individuals were divided into rare (<1% population frequency) and common (>1% population frequency). CNVs were manually verified in Integrative Genomics Viewer. In an independent analysis, we examined three intergenic duplications previously associated with strabismus to assess whether the findings could be replicated.One rare and three common CNVs were associated with amblyopia: a rare intronic deletion in MDGA2, an intronic duplication in CAMK2D, and intronic deletions in COG1 and KMT2C. Three rare and 2 common CNVs were associated with strabismus: rare intronic deletions in PCDH15, GTF2H1, and NKAIN3, a common intronic deletion in TRANK1, and a common intronic duplication in GRK5. Implicated genes predominantly affect neuronal and synaptic function, including modulation of postsynaptic potential, retrograde transport, glutaminergic synaptic transmission, and calcium-mediated signaling. GRK5 interacts with CXCR4, a chemokine receptor critical for axon guidance of the oculomotor nerve. The previously identified chr4 duplication was also significantly associated with strabismus in the AoURP dataset, replicating previous findings.CNVs are an additional source of genetic risk for strabismus and amblyopia and highlight synaptic and neurodevelopmental pathways as central to etiology.
Lower respiratory tract infections (LRTI), including pneumonia, tuberculosis, and COVID-19, share overlapping clinical features and risk factors, yet their common genetic architecture remains poorly understood.We applied genomic structural equation modeling (Genomic SEM) to dissect the shared genetic susceptibility among seven LRTI-related phenotypes using large-scale GWAS summary statistics. Multivariate GWAS (mvGWAS) was performed to identify variants associated with the latent LRTI factor. Post-GWAS analyses included Bayesian fine-mapping, transcriptome-wide association studies, MAGMA analysis, pathway enrichment, and cell-type specific heritability partitioning.A single latent factor model demonstrated excellent fit, confirming substantial genetic overlap across LRTI phenotypes. The mvGWAS identified 5,469 genome-wide significant variants, including 3,705 associations uniquely identified at the latent-factor level. Fine-mapping prioritized high-confidence causal variants at CAMK2D, NFKB1, CNTN5 and PARK2 loci, implicating calcium signaling, NF-κB-mediated inflammation, neuroimmune regulation, and mitochondrial quality control. TWAS highlighted TLK2, NUDT6, and PKN2 as key transcriptional regulators involved in chromatin homeostasis and inflammasome modulation. MAGMA identified RPL18A, HLA-DRB1, HLA-DQB1, and PTPN6, underscoring roles of ribosomal function, antigen presentation, and immune cell signaling. Pathway analysis revealed enrichment in coagulation cascades, while cell type analysis suggested involvement of hematopoietic progenitors and myeloid lineages.This study provides the first comprehensive genetic framework for shared LRTI susceptibility, revealing convergent biological pathways spanning inflammation, mitochondrial homeostasis, antigen presentation, and coagulation. These findings offer candidate targets for host-directed therapeutic strategies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Myocardial fibrosis is a common pathological feature of multiple cardiovascular diseases, including heart failure, hypertension, and myocardial infarction, and is associated with poor prognosis. Despite extensive research, clinically validated molecular biomarkers for early diagnosis and reliable therapeutic targets for myocardial fibrosis remain limited. Post-translational modifications (PTMs), including phosphorylation, acetylation, ubiquitination, SUMOylation, and glycosylation, are critical regulators of fibrosis-related signaling pathways, yet a systematic bioinformatics-driven identification of PTM-related hub genes has not been performed. Three publicly available GEO datasets (GSE57345, GSE133054, GSE76314) comprising cardiac tissue from heart failure and control patients were integrated. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified using the limma package, then intersected with a curated PTM gene set derived from PhosphoSitePlus and UniProt databases. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) identified fibrosis-associated modules, and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis via STRING and CytoHubba pinpointed hub genes. Diagnostic performance was assessed by receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis across independent validation cohorts. Immune cell infiltration was estimated using CIBERSORT.Molecular docking with AutoDock Vina (version 1.2.3) was performed to evaluate binding affinity of FDA-approved cardiovascular drugs against identified hub protein targets. A total of 863 DEGs were identified in the training cohort (|log2FC| > 1.0, adjusted p < 0.05), of which 138 overlapped with the PTM gene set. WGCNA revealed a turquoise module (r = 0.79, p < 0.001) most significantly correlated with fibrosis severity. PPI analysis identified five hub genes: SIRT3, SMAD3, NEDD4L, UBC9, and CAMK2D. ROC analysis demonstrated strong diagnostic performance (AUC range: 0.82-0.92) validated in independent cohorts. Hub genes showed significant correlations with M2 macrophage infiltration. Molecular docking identified spironolactone and finerenone as top-ranked ligands with binding energies of -8.7 and -8.4 kcal/mol against SMAD3 and SIRT3, respectively. This study, which is entirely in silico and based on publicly available transcriptomic datasets, systematically identifies five PTM-related hub genes as candidate diagnostic biomarkers and prioritised drug-repurposing targets in myocardial fibrosis. These findings are hypothesis-generating and require experimental validation (protein-level confirmation, cell- and animal-based functional assays, and biophysical binding studies) before any diagnostic or therapeutic claim can be made.
Vascular smooth muscle (VSM) cell migration promotes physiological and pathophysiological vascular remodeling. A previous study from our laboratory demonstrated that both CaMKIIδ and FYN, a SRC- family kinase, promote VSM cell migration in vitro. CaMKIIδ co-localized with FYN and physically interacted in an activation-dependent manner, with CaMKIIδ activation resulting in FYN activation and dissociation of the interaction. The CAMK2D gene undergoes extensive alternative splicing, including an exon encoding a 21-amino acid C-terminus, resulting in the expression of CaMKIIδ2 and related variants that include the 21-AA C-terminal tail, and CaMKIIδ6 and related variants lacking the sequence. The aforementioned CaMKIIδ/FYN interaction was attributed to the CaMKIIδ2 variant that predominates in rat aortic VSM cells used in those studies. The purpose of this study was to test the functional equivalency of CaMKIIδ2 and CaMKIIδ6 isoforms in mediating signal transduction required for VSM motility. Adenoviral overexpression of CaMKIIδ6 inhibited VSM cell motility, disrupted CaMKIIδ/FYN interaction, reduced localization of active CaMKIIδ in lamellipodia, and reduced PDGF-dependent tyrosine phosphorylation of the focal adhesion proteins, P130Cas and paxillin mediated by FYN. Silencing FYN expression using siRNA phenocopied these effects of over-expressing CaMKIIδ6. As an alternative approach, application of an exon skipping antisense oligonucleotide targeting the C-terminal exon in the Camk2d gene, resulted in loss of CaMKIIδ2 expression and a reciprocal increase in expression of CaMKIIδ6. This manipulation of endogenous CaMKIIδ variant expression also inhibited localization of active CaMKIIδ in lamellipodia and inhibited VSM cell migration. Taken together, these results suggest that the alternatively spliced C-terminal domain in the CaMKIIδ2 splice variant confers interaction with FYN, localization of the kinases to lamellipodia, and consequent regulation of focal adhesion dynamics to promote VSM cell migration.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Acquired resistance to epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs) is a major challenge in the treatment of lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD). Our previous study demonstrated that EGFR signaling activates calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase 2 (CAMK2). However, the relationship between this mechanism and TKI resistance has not been fully elucidated.In this study the role of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase IIδ (CAMK2D) splice variants in gefitinib resistance was investigated using clinical specimens and chronically TKI-exposed cell lines. The biological effects of CAMK2D isoform 15 were evaluated using in vitro assays and in vivo xenograft models. In addition, integrative multi-omics analysis was applied to identify potential upstream regulators of CAMK2D splicing 15.Analysis of clinical samples and cell models revealed that CAMK2D overexpression, particularly isoform 15 containing exon 7, was strongly associated with resistance to EGFR-TKIs. Upregulation of isoform 15 enhanced gefitinib resistance, while knockdown of isoform 15 restored drug sensitivity in vitro. Upregulation of isoform 15 significantly increased tumor growth in xenograft models. Mechanistically, isoform 15 directly interacted with AKT and promoted phosphorylation of AKT at Thr308, thereby activating anti-apoptotic signaling. Multi-omics analysis further identified small nuclear ribonucleoprotein polypeptide A1 (SNRPA1) as a key upstream splicing regulator. Downregulation of SNRPA1 promoted isoform 15 expression and induced a high-resistance phenotype.Our findings revealed a novel mechanism underlying EGFR-TKI resistance in which SNRPA1-controlled alternative splicing drives the expression of CAMK2D isoform 15, leading to activation of AKT signaling and gefitinib resistance. These results identified CAMK2D isoform 15 as a potential prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target, providing a rationale for splicing-directed strategies to overcome EGFR-TKI resistance in LUAD.Copyright © 2026 The Authors.
Intestinal ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury, a common and severe clinical condition with high morbidity and mortality, burdens healthcare systems. Our previous investigations established that a nano-delivery system enabled targeted rapamycin delivery to intestinal I/R injury sites with therapeutic efficacy. While calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase IIδ (CaMK2D) has been implicated in myocardial injury and tumorigenesis, its role in intestinal I/R pathophysiology remains unexplored. This study investigates the therapeutic mechanisms of rapamycin in intestinal I/R injury by modulation of CaMK2D signaling.An oxygen-glucose deprivation/reperfusion (OGD/R) model in Caco-2 human colorectal cancer cells and a murine intestinal I/R model were established. Small interfering RNA (siRNA) and hesperadin (HES) were used to inhibit CaMK2D expression. Transcriptomic profiling was performed via RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) with subsequent bioinformatic analysis including differential gene expression, MCODE-based protein interaction network clustering, and RAPA-CaMK2D molecular docking studies. Cellular assays included qRT - PCR, western blotting (WB), Fluo-3 calcium flux analysis, flow cytometry, and Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). In animal experiments, HE staining, immunohistochemistry, TUNEL assay, WB, and ELISA were employed.Both cellular and murine models demonstrated a significant upregulation of CaMK2D phosphorylation with intestinal epithelial apoptosis, barrier dysfunction, and enhanced inflammatory response during I/R. CaMK2D knockdown using siRNA attenuated these pathological manifestations, vice versa. Bioinformatic analysis revealed a CaMK2D-dominated regulatory module (ranked fifth) enriched in calcium-mediated signaling pathways. Mechanistically, I/R induced CaMK2D activation exacerbated inflammatory cascades, epithelial apoptosis, and tight junction disruption. Rapamycin treatment (1.5 mg/kg, i.p.) ameliorated these effects by decreasing CaMK2D expression and phosphorylation (WB, P < 0.01), pro-inflammatory cytokine levels (ELISA, P < 0.01), while preserving intestinal integrity as evidenced by histological analysis (IHC, P < 0.05).Our findings establish CaMK2D hyperactivation as a key to intestinal I/R injury. The therapeutic potential of rapamycin derived from its ability to suppress CaMK2D signaling axis, providing a novel pharmacological strategy for intestinal I/R management.Copyright © 2026 Sheng, Liang, Zhang, Lai, Hong, Huang and Liu.
Cardiac microvascular endothelial cell (CMEC) injury is a primary driver of microvascular obstruction and the no-reflow phenomenon during myocardial ischemia/reperfusion (I/R). While Programmed Cell Death 4 (PDCD4) is known to exacerbate cardiovascular diseases, its precise role and regulatory mechanisms in CMEC barrier dysfunction and inflammatory adhesion during I/R remain unclear. In this study, we demonstrate that PDCD4 deletion significantly mitigates I/R-induced cardiac dysfunction, reduces infarct size, and preserves microvascular ultrastructure in mice. In vitro experiments using a hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R) model revealed that PDCD4 knockdown preserves CMEC viability, suppresses apoptosis, and maintains endothelial barrier integrity by restoring tight junction proteins (ZO-1, Claudin-1, and Occludin). Furthermore, PDCD4 inhibition significantly reduced pathological permeability and attenuated the adhesion of neutrophils and macrophages by downregulating ICAM-1. Mechanistically, PDCD4 directly interacts with Peroxisome Proliferator-Activated Receptor alpha (PPARα) at the protein level and restricts its protective antioxidant function. Co-immunoprecipitation and immunofluorescence supported this interaction. Silencing PDCD4 restored PPARα-dependent antioxidant responses, leading to a marked reduction in oxidative stress (decreased ROS and MDA, increased SOD). Crucially, double-knockdown rescue experiments confirmed that the protective effects of PDCD4 depletion against H/R-induced apoptosis, barrier disruption, and inflammatory adhesion were largely abolished upon concurrent PPARα silencing. These findings establish that PDCD4 exacerbates I/R-induced CMEC injury by binding to and inhibiting PPARα-mediated antioxidant homeostasis. Targeting the PDCD4-PPARα interaction axis presents a promising therapeutic strategy to prevent microvascular dysfunction and improve outcomes following acute myocardial infarction.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Adipose-derived stem cell exosomes (ADSC-EXOs) serve as cell-free therapy, transporting signaling molecules that modulate adipose plasticity. However, the precise molecular mechanisms involved remain unclear. We used a high-fat diet-induced mouse obesity model and an MDI-induced 3T3-L1 cell differentiation model. We found that ADSC-EXOs improved systemic glucose and lipid metabolism, decreased PDCD4 and white adipocyte marker expression, and increased brown adipocyte marker expression along with the activation of the LXR-α/Akt pathway in inguinal adipose tissue. miR-21a-5p mimic or siPDCD4 transfection in 3T3-L1 cells recapitulated these effects, reducing lipid accumulation and promoting adipocyte browning, whereas PDCD4 overexpression produced the opposite effects. Mechanistically, miR-21a-5p directly targeted the 3' UTR of PDCD4. These findings indicate that ADSC-EXOs facilitate white fat browning through the miR-21a-5p/PDCD4 axis and thus activate the LXR-α/Akt signaling pathway, offering a potential therapeutic strategy for obesity-related metabolic dysfunction.© 2026 The Author(s).
Alternative calcium sources are needed to enhance osteoporosis management. This study investigated the osteoprotective effects of skipjack tuna bone-derived biocalcium (Bio). Bio enhanced MC3T3-E1 osteoblast and C3H10T1/2 cell differentiation, increasing alkaline phosphatase activity and calcium deposition. Conversely, Bio inhibited receptor activator of nuclear factor-κB ligand (RANKL)-induced osteoclastogenesis in RAW 264.7 macrophages, reducing tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP) activity and bone resorption. Bio suppressed intracellular ROS and downregulated primary, precursor and mature microRNA (miR)-21. miR-21 inhibitor suppressed TRAP activity and Cathepsin K expression, as opposed to miR-21 mimic. In an osteoblast-osteoclast crosstalk environment, Bio synergistically enhanced miR-21 target genes (PTEN and PDCD4) expression, whereas PTEN knockdown suppressed NFATc1 osteoclast marker expression via miR-21 inhibition. Molecular docking confirmed binding affinities between mouse and human miR-21 and both targets. Western blot showed β-catenin upregulation and total NF-κB p65 suppression after Bio treatment. Collectively, Bio exerts dual anti-osteoporotic actions, offering a potential functional supplement for bone remodeling disorders.© 2026 The Authors.
As the incidence of Breast cancer continues to rise globally, understanding the molecular mechanisms by which probiotics can influence cancer cell behavior is crucial. Thisresearch explores the gene regulatory mechanism ofpotential anti-cancer properties of cell-free supernatants derived from Bifidobacterium bifidum and Lactobacillus acidophilus on Breast cancer cell lines, including MCF-7 and MDA-MB-231. We utilized a variety of experimental techniques, including MTT assays, BrdU, flow cytometry, evaluation of caspase activity and BAX/BCL-2 ratio, RT-PCR, Western blot analysis, and mimic miRNA transfection, to evaluate apoptosis induction and uncover the involved gene regulatory mechanisms throughout miRNAs. After exposing the cells with probiotic supernatants for 48 h at concentrations between 0.5 and 40 µg/mL, we observed a significant induction of apoptosis in both cell lines. Our investigation centered on four oncomiRs: miR-21-5p, miR-155-5p, miR-150-5p, and miR-223-3p, revealing notable changes in the levels of miR-155-5p and miR-21-5p. Further analysis indicated that the supernatants increased the expression of their target genes and proteins, PDCD4 and PTEN, which are essential for regulating apoptosis as tumor suppressor factors. we confirmed this gene regulatory properties by transfection of mimic miR-21-5p and miR-155-5p, the anticipated increase in PDCD4 and PTENwas less pronounced in transfected cells. This finding suggests that probiotics can effectively downregulate certain oncomiRs and enhance their target tumor suppressor genes and protein levels. the down-regulation of oncomiRs may display positive effects of probiotics, leading to inhibition of tumor growth and anti-proliferative outcomes. Our results emphasize the intricate relationships among probiotics, miRNAs, and tumor suppressor proteins, highlighting their potential significance in cancer treatment. This study calls for further exploration of these interactions to develop improved therapeutic strategies for Breast cancer through the modulation of cellular pathways by probiotics.© 2026. The Author(s).
The overall response rate of patients with advanced metastatic melanoma treated with anticancer agents remains poor, and their prognosis is extremely unfavorable. Combination therapy has become a prevalent treatment strategy, but resistance to the key drug dacarbazine (DTIC) contributes significantly to poor outcomes. We focused on programmed cell death 4 (Pdcd4), a tumor suppressor gene, as a potential target for overcoming drug resistance. Recent studies indicate that Pdcd4 expression impacts cell cycle regulation, with its specific function varying with cancer type. To date, detailed mechanisms remain unclear.We established DTIC-resistant mouse melanoma cells and evaluated whether resistance was acquired by measuring the proliferation of those cells. To evaluate the resistance mechanism, we investigated cell cycle regulatory factors using western blotting and flow cytometry. We also examined the relationship between Pdcd4 expression and cell cycle regulation.DTIC-resistant cells showed significantly decreased Pdcd4 protein levels, while expression of Cyclin D1 (a G1 phase regulator) and Cyclin E (involved in S-phase progression) was significantly increased. Expression of p21, a CDK inhibitor, also increased. Flow cytometric analysis revealed that DTIC treatment reduces the S-phase population in non-resistant cells, but not in resistant cells, and Cyclin D1 expression remains elevated in resistant cells even after extended culture in the absence of DTIC.Pdcd4 expression is downregulated in highly malignant DTIC-resistant melanoma cells and the resulting disruption in cell cycle control may contribute to drug resistance. Reactivating Pdcd4 to modulate cell cycle progression may offer a promising approach for overcoming chemotherapy resistance in patients with tumors.Copyright © 2026 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
Cardiac arrest (CA) is a leading cause of death globally. Exosomes derived from mesenchymal stem cells exhibit favourable production, storage, and safety characteristics, making them a promising alternative for post-CA resuscitation. We assessed the safety, biodistribution, and protective effects of human embryonic stem cell-derived immunity-and-matrix regulatory cells (hESC-IMRC-Exo) for post-CA resuscitation cardiac/cerebral injuries, and preliminarily explored its underlying molecular mechanism. The biotoxicity of IMRC-Exo was evaluated in AC16 and HT22 cells and in mice; its biodistribution was traced using fluorescently labelled IMRC-Exo. Protective effects were examined in H/R-treated cells and rat and swine CA models. We found that IMRC-Exo did not induce apoptosis or oxidative stress in AC16 or HT22 cells. IMRC-Exo was also safe in mice, with normal body weight, blood indices, and histopathology. Pharmacokinetic analysis revealed rapid multi-organ distribution, peaking at 24 h with a 7-day half-life. For efficacy study, IMRC-Exo reduced LDH release, ROS levels, and apoptosis in H/R-treated cells. In rat, IMRC-Exo dose-dependently (0.5×, 1×, 2×) reduced serum biomarkers, improved neurological function, and attenuated inflammation. In swine, single-dose IMRC-Exo (1×) reduced injury biomarkers, improved neurological function, and attenuated inflammation. Furthermore, in a separate rat group, IMRC-Exo improved 7-day survival and neurological function. Mechanistically, the protective effects of IMRC-Exo were mediated by its secreted miR-21-5p, which attenuated H/R-induced apoptosis and inflammation by targeting PDCD4. This study demonstrated IMRC-Exo, a safe and effective therapeutic, distributed rapidly via the bloodstream to target organs and protected against post-resuscitation cardiac/cerebral injuries, potentially through the miR-21-5p/PDCD4 axis.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Recently, studies have shown that non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) play an important role in cancer. An important group of these ncRNAs are micro RNAs (miRs), which are important regulators in the cell. miR-21 is one type of miR that plays an oncogenic role in various cancers, especially glioblastoma (GBM). On the other hand, according to the studies, miR-505-3p is known as a tumor suppressor (TSG). Other studies conducted in recent years indicate that miRs may target other ncRNAs, including other miRs. This mode is called miR-miR interaction. Therefore, this study aims to investigate the relationship of these two miRs in GBM. Bioinformatic analyses predicted a potential interaction between miR-505-3p and pri-miR-21. RNA hybridization modeling suggested thermodynamically feasible binding. Overexpression of miR-505-3p in GBM cell lines (U87-MG and A172) was associated with reduced levels of mature miR-21-5p. Concomitantly, increased mRNA and protein expression of known miR-21 target genes, including PDCD4, HNRNPK, and RECK, was observed. Functional assays demonstrated reduced cell proliferation and increased sub-G1 cell population following miR-505-3p overexpression. Dual luciferase reporter assays using a pri-miR-21 construct suggested that miR-505-3p may interfere with miR-21 processing. Our findings suggest that miR-505-3p may modulate miR-21 expression and is associated with restoration of tumor suppressor gene expression in GBM cells. While the data support a potential regulatory relationship, the precise molecular mechanism remains to be elucidated. Further studies are required to determine whether miR-505-3p directly interacts with pri-miR-21 and to clarify the biological relevance of this axis in GBM.© 2026. The Author(s).
Urothelial carcinoma, the predominant form of bladder cancer, represents a global public health challenge due to its high rates of recurrence and progression. At the molecular level, microRNA-21 (miR-21) has been characterized as an "oncomir" because of its ability to negatively regulate tumor suppressor genes, thereby promoting tumor survival and progression. In this context, the CRISPR/Cas9 system has emerged as a precise genome-editing tool.To investigate the biological effects of miR-21 modulation using CRISPR/Cas9-mediated genome editing in the T24 high-grade invasive urothelial carcinoma cell line.The CRISPR/Cas9 system was delivered as a ribonucleoprotein (RNP) complex. Editing efficiency was assessed using quantitative reverse transcription PCR (RT-qPCR). Functional effects were evaluated through gene expression assays, cell migration assays, as well as Matrigel invasion assays. The presence of the Cas9 protein was confirmed by immunofluorescence.CRISPR/Cas9 treatment targeting miR-21 showed a trend toward reduced miR-21 expression (p = 0.0563), although this did not reach statistical significance. A statistically significant increase in MASPIN (p < 0.0001) and PDCD4 (p = 0.0239), as well as a trend toward increased PTEN expression (p = 0.055), was observed following treatment. Functionally, a significant reduction in the migratory capacity of edited cells was observed after 48 h (p = 0.0334). The presence of Cas9 was successfully confirmed in transfected cells.These findings suggest that CRISPR/Cas9-mediated modulation of miR-21 may influence tumor suppressor pathways and reduce the migratory potential of urothelial carcinoma cells.© 2026. The Author(s).
Atrial fibrillation (AF) is characterized by severe structural and electrical remodeling that is driven in part by calcium (Ca2+) mishandling and mitochondrial dysfunction. While programmed cell death 4 (PDCD4) has been implicated in several cardiovascular pathologies, its precise role in AF remains unclear.In vivo AF mouse models (Ang II infusion combined with burst pacing) and in vitro models using rapidly paced AC16 cardiomyocytes were established. Atrial electrophysiology, fibrosis, mitochondrial dynamics, reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, mitochondrial membrane potential, and Ca2+ transients were evaluated using multi-electrode recordings, histological staining, transmission electron microscopy, fluorescence imaging, flow cytometry, and calcium imaging.PDCD4 was significantly upregulated in both AF atrial tissues and paced cardiomyocytes. In vivo, PDCD4 overexpression exacerbated AF inducibility, prolonged AF duration, shortened the atrial effective refractory period, and aggravated atrial fibrosis. Mechanistically, PDCD4 promoted excessive mitochondrial fission, as evidenced by upregulated DRP1 and FIS1 and downregulated MFN1/2 and OPA1, resulting in mitochondrial fragmentation, ROS overproduction, and loss of membrane potential. This oxidative stress subsequently triggered hyperactivation of the CaM/CaMKII signaling pathway, leading to intracellular Ca2+ overload and prolonged excitation-contraction coupling. Notably, pharmacological blockade of mitochondrial fission using Mdivi-1 blunted ROS production, suppressed CaMKII hyperactivation, and reversed PDCD4-induced atrial remodeling and calcium dyshomeostasis.PDCD4 exacerbates atrial fibrillation by orchestrating a pathogenic mitochondrial fission/ROS/CaMKII axis that disrupts calcium homeostasis and promotes fibrotic remodeling. Targeting the PDCD4-mediated mitochondrial dynamics pathway offers a promising therapeutic strategy for mitigating AF progression.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42293239 is a review article
The present study investigated the differential mRNA expression of energy metabolism and stress-response genes (ADCY10, AK1, ATP5F1B, and HSP70) in fresh and frozen-thawed Murrah buffalo spermatozoa subjected to uniform 2-h in vitro capacitation. Semen samples (n = 32 per group) from eight bulls were divided into four groups: fresh non-capacitated (G1, control), fresh capacitated (G2), frozen non-capacitated (G3), and frozen capacitated (G4). Relative expression was analyzed by RT-qPCR using GLUT5 as the reference gene. Results revealed that ADCY10 was significantly upregulated in G2, G3, and G4 compared to G1, with the highest expression in G3 (frozen non-capacitated), indicating cryopreservation-induced premature activation stronger than bicarbonate-driven capacitation. AK1 was exclusively and significantly upregulated only in fresh capacitated spermatozoa (G2), suggesting it as a specific marker of successful physiological capacitation. ATP5F1B showed significant upregulation in both G2 and G3, reflecting high energy demand in true capacitation and metabolic surge post-thawing, but declined in G4. HSP70 was significantly downregulated in all treated groups compared to G1, confirming cryoinjury-related transcript consumption. These findings demonstrate that cryopreservation triggers partial cryo-capacitation with dysregulated energy gene expression, uncoupling true capacitation pathways and contributing to reduced post-thaw fertility in buffaloes.Copyright © 2026 Society for Cryobiology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Oculocutaneous albinism (OCA) is a genetic condition associated with impaired visual acuity and increased skin cancer risk. When OCA is due to defects in melanosome ion transport, abnormally acidic conditions in the melanosome lumen inhibit tyrosinase, the critical pigment synthetic enzyme. Hence, a therapeutic approach that optimizes melanosome pH to increase pigment production presents a potential treatment for OCA and a method for decreasing skin cancer risk. Here, we report that reduction in sAC ( ADCY10 ) activity via naturally occurring human variants in ADCY10 restores OCA pigmentation, and sAC inhibition increases melanin synthesis in both human and mouse OCA models. These findings demonstrate that targeting melanosome pH is an effective, previously untapped therapeutic strategy for OCA and elevated skin cancer risk.
Male fertility depends on sperm motility, which enables sperm to traverse the female reproductive tract to the site of fertilization. Soluble adenylyl cyclase (sAC) is a key regulator of sperm motility, defining it as a promising non-hormonal contraceptive target for women and men. To evaluate the efficacy of sAC inhibitors under conditions mimicking the female reproductive tract, we employed a capillary assay using cervical mucus isolated from humans or cows as well as methylcellulose, a viscoelastic liquid that simulates cervical mucus. Addition of a sAC inhibitor, either directly to semen, modeling an on-demand male contraceptive, or to the cervical mucus, approximating a female contraceptive, effectively blocked sperm migration. These studies provide proof-of-concept for the efficacy of sAC inhibitors under physiologically relevant conditions.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology.
The role of the cAMP/PKA pathway in antiviral innate immunity, including during coronavirus infections, remains unclear. We discovered coronavirus N proteins initiate cAMP-ADCY10-PKA cascade. Cytoplasmic PKA activates STAT1 independently of canonical JAK/TYR2 signaling. Coronavirus N proteins, via a conserved arginine (e.g., PEDV R58, SARS-CoV-2 R92), directly bind and sequester PKA Cα into the nucleus to evade STAT1 activation. Using PEDV as a model, mutant viruses with NmutNLS and NR58A were generated. Wildtype PEDV infection suppressed STAT1 activation in cells expressing PKA Cα/PKA CαS339A deficient in STAT1 phosphorylation. However, in rXS0101mutNLS- or rXS0101R58A-infected cells, only PKA CαS339A expression inhibited STAT1 activation. Downregulation of STAT1 activation is accompanied with increased viral replication. This study first elaborates that PKA Cα activates STAT1 in the cytoplasm of infected cells distinctly from canonical JAK/STAT1 signaling, while coronaviruses evade this antiviral response by sequestering PKA Cα into the nucleus via direct N protein interaction.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41843491 is a review article
cAMP is a ubiquitous second messenger produced from ATP and involved in many cellular processes. In humans, cAMP is produced from two types of adenylyl cyclases: G protein-regulated transmembrane adenylyl cyclases (ADCY1-9) and bicarbonate- (HCO3-) and calcium- (Ca2+) regulated soluble adenylyl cyclase (sAC; ADCY10). sAC is molecularly and biochemically distinct from other mammalian nucleotidyl cyclases. In most mammals, sAC arises from a single gene which is predicted to generate multiple isoforms via alternative splicing. In rodents, there are two molecularly identified splice variants: the "full-length" isoform (sACfl) and a "truncated" isoform (sACt). To date, biochemical and structural characterization of sAC has focused almost exclusively on the sACt isoform. Longer sAC isoforms, including the longest known sACfl, contain additional presumptive regulatory domains which have not yet been functionally characterized. Thus far, studies have been limited by the inability to obtain sufficient sACfl protein to allow in vitro biochemical characterization. Here, we describe attempts to heterologously express and purify human sACfl as well as generation of a novel genetically modified mouse strain which permits biochemical separation and purification of endogenously expressed mouse sACfl and sACt. We use these heterologously expressed and endogenous proteins to compare and contrast the biochemically properties of human and mouse sACfl and sACt.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
β-Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (β-NAD) is recognized as a sympathetic neurotransmitter that relaxes vascular and intestinal smooth muscle through purinergic receptor pathways. In the lung, β-NAD has been associated with anti-inflammatory effects, but its role in regulating airway smooth muscle tone remains unexplored. This study investigates the impact of β-NAD on airway smooth muscle and elucidates the underlying mechanisms of its action.Airway constriction was assessed as a force in organ bath (mouse trachea, human bronchioli) and as a luminal area in mouse precision-cut lung slices. The latter was combined with recording changes in [Ca2+] and membrane potential. Intracellular calcium and cyclic AMP concentrations were recorded in isolated airway smooth muscle cells.β-NAD did not affect baseline tension/area in the trachea, bronchi, and bronchioli. Airways precontracted with muscarine were concentration-dependently relaxed with β-NAD by up to 100%, being as effective as salbutamol. The airway relaxing effect of β-NAD was resistant to purinergic inhibitors, to inhibition of Gs- and Gi-signaling, and insensitive to several other blockers of common relaxation pathways. Isolated airway smooth muscle cells and bronchial smooth muscle in precision-cut lung slices responded to β-NAD with increased [Ca2+]i and depolarization of the cell membrane while relaxing. β-NAD increased intracellular cAMP levels in airway smooth muscle. In silico analysis revealed low expression of soluble adenylyl cyclase (ADCY10) in mouse and human airway smooth muscle, consistent with the lack of effect of the sAC inhibitor KH7 and preserved responses in sAC-deficient mice. These findings implicate transmembrane adenylyl cyclases as the likely cAMP source. Phosphodiesterase-4 inhibition with rolipram enhanced β-NAD-induced relaxation, suggesting a role for compartmentalized cAMP signaling.Extracellular β-NAD relaxes airway smooth muscle via a noncanonical, cAMP-linked pathway that is independent of classical Gi- and Gs-coupled receptor signaling. This pathway is enhanced by PDE4 inhibition and likely involves localized cAMP pools generated by transmembrane adenylyl cyclases. These findings identify β-NAD as a potential modulator of airway tone and support further exploration of its physiological and therapeutic relevance.Copyright: © 2025 Jurastow et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
This study investigated lipid metabolism differences between low and high residual feed intake (LRFI and HRFI) bulls. Fifty-five Simmental bulls (449.84 ± 8.49 kg) were fed the same diet for 161 d to determine RFI values. At the end of experiment, back fat thickness (BFT) and rib eye area (REA) were measured via ultrasound, and serum samples were collected for lipid metabolism indicators. Post-slaughter, subcutaneous adipose tissue was analyzed for lipid metabolism indicators, histology, transcriptomics, and lipid metabolomics. Results 1) Ultrasound showed LRFI bulls had lower BFT (P = 0.031) but higher REA (P = 0.021). 2) Serum total cholesterol (P = 0.028) and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (P = 0.015) were lower in LRFI bulls. Leptin levels were lower in both serum (P = 0.007) and adipose tissue (P = 0.001) in LRFI bulls, as were acetyl-CoA carboxylase levels in serum (P = 0.032) and adipose tissue (P = 0.043). Conversely, adipose triglyceride lipase levels were higher in both serum (P = 0.045) and adipose tissue (P = 0.043), while adipose tissue fatty acid synthase levels were lower (P = 0.035) in LRFI bulls. 3) Transcriptomics identified two pathways, adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) and cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP), involving five lipid metabolism-related genes. Among these, adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide 1 receptor type 1 (ADCYAP1R1), adenylate cyclase 10 (ADCY10), and adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide 1 (ADCYAP1) were significantly upregulated (P < 0.05), while leptin receptor (LEPR) was downregulated (P = 0.047) in LRFI bulls. Additionally, leptin (LEP) showed a downward trend (P = 0.098) in LRFI bulls. 4) Lipid metabolomics revealed that the LRFI group had significantly higher levels of wax ester (WE) (P = 0.040) and significantly lower levels of monogalactosyldiacylglycerol (MGDG) (P = 0.040) compared to the HRFI group. Additionally, sphingomyelin (SPH) showed a trend towards lower abundance (P = 0.054), and C12:0 levels tended to be higher (P = 0.089) in the LRFI group. In conclusion, differences in the AMPK and cAMP signaling in adipose tissue are associated with reduced lipid synthesis and enhanced lipid degradation in LRFI bulls, which may contribute to reduced lipid deposition.© 2025 The Authors.
Basal cell carcinoma (BCC), the most common skin cancer, is primarily driven by Hedgehog (Hh) and TP53 pathway alterations. Although additional pathways were implicated, the mutational landscape in Asian populations, particularly Koreans, remains underexplored. We performed whole-exome sequencing of BCC tumor tissues from Korean patients and analyzed mutations in 11 established BCC driver genes (PTCH1, SMO, GLI1, TP53, CSMD1/2, NOTCH1/2, ITIH2, DPP10, and STEAP4). Mutational profiles were compared with Caucasian cohort profiles to identify ethnicity-specific variants. Ultraviolet (UV)-exposed and non-UV-exposed tumor sites were compared; genes unique to non-UV-exposed tumors were further analyzed with protein-protein interaction analysis. BCCs in Koreans exhibited distinct features, including fewer truncating and more intronic variants compared to Caucasians. Korean-specific mutations in SMO, PTCH1, TP53, and NOTCH2 overlapped with oncogenic gain-of-function/loss-of-function (GOF/LOF) variants annotated in OncoKB, with some occurring at hotspot sites. BCCs in non-exposed areas showed recurrent mutations in CSMD1, PTCH1, and NOTCH1, suggesting a UV-independent mechanism. Novel mutations in TAS1R2 and ADCY10 were exclusive to non-exposed BCCs, with protein-protein interaction analysis linking them to TP53 and NOTCH2. We found unique ethnic-specific and UV-independent mutational profiles of BCCs in Koreans. TAS1R2 and ADCY10 may contribute to tumorigenesis of BCC in non-exposed areas, supporting the need for population-specific precision oncology.
Obesity is a significant risk factor for cancer and is associated with breast cancer metastasis. Nevertheless, the mechanism by which alterations in systemic metabolism affect tumor microenvironment (TME) and consequently influence tumor metastasis remains inadequately understood. Herein, we found that perturbations in circulating metabolites induced by obesity promote metastasis-like phenotypes in breast cancer. Oleoylcarnitine (OLCarn) concentrations were elevated in the serum of obese mice and humans. Administration of exogenous OLCarn induces metastasis-like characteristics in breast cancer cells. Mechanistically, OLCarn directly interacts with the Arg176 site of adenylate cyclase 10 (ADCY10), leading to the activation of ADCY10 and enhancement of cAMP production. Mutations at Arg176 prevent OLCarn from binding to ADCY10, disrupting the ADCY10-mediated activation of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) signaling pathway. This activation promotes transcription factor 4 (TCF4)-dependent kinesin family member C1 (KIFC1) transcription, thereby driving breast cancer metastasis. Conversely, the neutralization of both ADCY10 and KIFC1 through knockdown or pharmacological inhibition abrogates the oncogenic effects mediated by OLCarn. Hence, obesity-induced systemic environmental changes lead to the aberrant accumulation of OLCarn within the TME, making it a potential therapeutic target and biomarker for breast cancer.© 2025 The Authors.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) exhibits profound metabolic plasticity that underlies its aggressive growth and therapeutic resistance. However, genetic determinants that modulate PDAC sensitivity to glycolytic inhibition remain incompletely defined. Here, we performed a pooled genome-wide CRISPR-Cas9 dropout screen in PDAC cells under 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG) selection and identified FGD5 as a key regulator of glycolytic dependency. Loss of FGD5 sensitized PDAC cells to 2-DG, reduced clonogenic growth and stem-like properties, and was associated with a shift from glycolysis toward oxidative phosphorylation. Clinically, FGD5 expression was elevated in PDAC tissues and correlated with unfavorable patient outcomes. Mechanistically, FGD5 interacted with and stabilized PGK1 by limiting STUB1-mediated ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation. Pharmacological perturbation with CB-5083, a compound prioritized through structure-guided screening, modulated FGD5-PGK1-associated proteostasis readouts, increased PGK1 ubiquitination, reduced PGK1 abundance, and cooperated with 2-DG to suppress PDAC growth in vitro and in vivo. Moreover, lactate-associated H3K18 histone lactylation was linked to increased FGD5 transcription, consistent with a feed-forward regulatory connection between glycolysis, epigenetic modification, and metabolic adaptation. Collectively, our findings position FGD5 as a metabolic vulnerability in PDAC and provide a mechanistic framework supporting combinatorial strategies that couple glycolysis inhibition with perturbation of FGD5-PGK1-associated proteostasis. A genome-wide CRISPR-Cas9 screen identified FGD5 as a metabolic vulnerability that increases PDAC sensitivity to the glycolysis inhibitor 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG). In PDAC cells, FGD5 interacts with PGK1 and supports PGK1 stability by limiting STUB1-dependent ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation, thereby sustaining aerobic glycolysis and lactate production. Glycolysis-derived lactate is associated with increased H3K18 histone lactylation (H3K18la) at the FGD5 promoter, accompanied by elevated FGD5 transcription, consistent with a metabolic-epigenetic regulatory link. Pharmacological perturbation with CB-5083 attenuates FGD5-PGK1-associated proteostasis readouts, whereas 2-DG inhibits glycolytic flux and lactate-associated H3K18la. Together, CB-5083 and 2-DG cooperate to suppress PDAC growth by coupling perturbation of the FGD5-PGK1-associated proteostasis axis with glycolytic inhibition.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
The carboxyl terminus of Hsp70-interacting protein (CHIP, encoded by STUB1) combines co-chaperone and E3 ubiquitin ligase activities to regulate protein quality control. Heterozygous mutations in STUB1 cause spinocerebellar ataxia type 48 (SCA48), a progressive cerebellar ataxia with variable extrapyramidal and cognitive features. To understand the molecular basis of this variability, we systematically analyzed 13 SCA48-associated variants spanning the TPR and U-box domains through recombinant protein biochemistry and cellular models. TPR variants retained intrinsic ligase activity but showed significantly reduced HSP70 binding, impaired substrate ubiquitination, and decreased stability. Conversely, U-box variants abolished ligase function, promoted the formation of high-molecular-weight oligomers, and often increased CHIP levels while only partially impairing co-chaperone activity. Many mutants displayed temperature-sensitive defects and defective stress-induced nuclear translocation. Principal component analysis revealed distinct biochemical clustering specific to each domain. RNA-seq following STUB1 knockdown modeled CHIP insufficiency and showed preserved HSF1-dependent transactivation, but loss of CHIP's capacity to amplify ubiquitination, chaperone function, and stress-related transcriptional programs. Meta-analysis of 87 SCA48 patients linked TPR-like biochemical signatures to upper motor neuron involvement and U-box-like profiles to prominent dysarthria. Overall, these data indicate that SCA48 results from domain-specific disruption of CHIP's dual functions, producing varying degrees of CHIP insufficiency and/or gain-of-toxic effects that together contribute to the phenotypic diversity observed across patients. This work refines the mechanistic framework for SCA48 pathogenesis and highlights strategies for therapeutic modulation of residual CHIP activity.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Chronic exposure to mid-band radiofrequency (RF) electromagnetic fields at 3.5 GHz is increasingly relevant to modern wireless environments; however, its effects on hippocampal circuit stability under non-thermal conditions remain unclear. We investigated whether prolonged 3.5-GHz RF exposure is associated with anxiety-like behavior and hippocampal transcript-level changes consistent with excitatory-inhibitory (E/I) imbalance, and whether thymoquinone (TQ) or taurine (TAU) are associated with modulation of these responses.Adult male Wistar rats (n = 28) were assigned to Sham, RF, RF + TQ (20 mg/kg), or RF + TAU (20 mg/kg) groups (n = 7/group). Animals were exposed to a GSM-like 3.5-GHz RF signal (2 W; 2 h/day; 5 days/week; 10 weeks). Anxiety-like behavior and spatial learning were assessed using the Elevated Plus Maze (EPM) and Morris Water Maze (MWM). Hippocampal gene expression (bdnf, creb1, camk2a, th, tph2, gad1, slc17a7) was quantified by RT-qPCR, and histopathology by H&E staining.Dosimetry indicated whole-body SAR of 0.0383 W/kg and brain gray matter SAR of 0.3411 W/kg. RF exposure was associated with reduced open-arm time in the EPM. Expression of slc17a7 increased in the RF group, suggesting a shift toward excitation. Under RF co-exposure conditions, TQ and TAU were associated with changes in slc17a7 expression and with increases in bdnf, creb1, and camk2a, along with inhibitory and monoaminergic markers. RF-exposed hippocampi showed neuronal degeneration, less pronounced in antioxidant-treated groups.Chronic non-thermal 3.5-GHz RF exposure is associated with anxiety-like behavior and a hippocampal molecular-structural profile consistent with E/I imbalance and tissue stress. TQ and TAU were associated with context-dependent changes under RF co-exposure conditions; however, due to the absence of antioxidant-only control groups, independent effects cannot be determined. These findings suggest that synaptic homeostasis may represent a potential target of prolonged mid-band RF exposure.
Myocardial ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury constitutes a major clinical challenge in ischemic heart disease, and ferroptosis has been recognized as a core driver of cardiomyocyte death during reperfusion. However, the upstream regulatory network governing myocardial ferroptosis remains incompletely defined. The mitogen-activated protein kinase 14 (p38α, MAPK14) is a stress-activated kinase critically involved in cardiac pathophysiology, yet its role in I/R-induced ferroptosis remains unclear. Here, we report that p38α deficiency attenuates ferroptosis and protects against myocardial I/R injury by stabilizing c-Myc. Phosphorylated p38α (p-p38α) was significantly elevated in mouse hearts after I/R and in cardiomyocytes following oxygen-glucose deprivation/reperfusion (OGD/R). Cardiomyocyte-specific p38α knockout markedly reduced ferroptosis, myocardial infarct size, and cardiac dysfunction. Mechanistically, p-p38α interacts with c-Myc under I/R stress via key residues Arg291, Arg300, and Lys304 of c-Myc and promotes the recruitment of the E3 ubiquitin ligase STUB1, thereby enhancing ubiquitination at Lys51 (K51) of c-Myc and its proteasomal degradation. Loss of p38α stabilizes c-Myc protein and reverses this process. Furthermore, c-Myc acts as a transcriptional repressor of NCOA4, a core mediator of ferroptosis. I/R-induced downregulation of c-Myc relieves NCOA4 suppression, triggering iron overload, lipid peroxidation, and ferroptosis. Overexpression of c-Myc or inhibition of STUB1 or NCOA4 abolished the pro-ferroptotic effect of I/R. Pretreatment with the p38α inhibitor VX-745 recapitulated the cardioprotective effects by restoring the p38α/c-Myc/NCOA4 axis in vivo. Collectively, our findings identify the p38α/c-Myc/NCOA4 signaling axis as a regulatory cascade governing myocardial I/R-induced ferroptosis. These findings nominate the p38α/c-Myc/NCOA4 axis as a potential therapeutic target in myocardial I/R injury.© 2026. The Author(s).
Photocatalytic proximity labeling proteomics (photo-PLP) has emerged as a powerful technology for rapid capture of protein interactomes in situ. Typically, photo-PLP relies on chemical conjugation of the photocatalyst to the target of interest which creates practical challenges for derivatized photocatalyst synthesis and bioconjugation specificity. Integrating the precision of genetically encodable enzymes with the versatility of chemically defined photocatalysts provides a modular approach to further expand the scope of neighborhood mapping. Here, we present EYClamp, a de novo designed proximity labeling enzyme harnessing the off-the-shelf photocatalyst Eosin Y (EY) as a cofactor. Using a domain-swapped dimer architecture, we designed a scaffold that binds EY with high affinity (K d = 10 nM) and lengthens its triplet excited-state lifetime by 29-fold. EYClamp enables efficient, multi-scale photocatalytic proximity labeling in live cells with aryl-diazirine-, aryl-azide- and phenol-biotin. We genetically fused EYClamp to a panel of six important E3 ligases. Using EYClamp, we identified over 1,500 candidate neighbors for KEAP1, MDM2, ASB7 and STUB1, providing a broad and unbiased view of these important neighborhoods. Critical functional networks were revealed including ASB7 engagement with HP1a/CUL5 complex for heterochromatin remodeling. Our EYClamp provides a genetically encodable "plug-and-play" solution for photo-PLP interactome discovery of the large family of E3 ligases and establishes domain-swapping as a promising strategy for de novo photoenzyme design.
The nucleophosmin-anaplastic lymphoma kinase (NPM-ALK) fusion constitutively activates ALK tyrosine kinase, driving oncogenesis in anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALCL). While arsenic trioxide (ATO) exhibits therapeutic potential, its precise mechanism remains elusive, limiting clinical application. Here, we used a combined approach of E3 ligase library screening, ATO chemical proteomics, and NPM-ALK immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry to reveal that ATO regulates NPM-ALK stability via the E3 ligase STUB1. Clinically, high STUB1 expression correlates with improved survival, identifying it as a candidate favorable prognostic biomarker in NPM-ALK+ ALCL. Mechanistically, ATO promotes a glue‑like interaction that stabilizes the ternary complex of STUB1 and NPM-ALK, promoting ubiquitination at K174 and subsequent proteasomal degradation. Furthermore, structural modeling, domain mapping, and point mutations support a proposed arsenic-dependent interaction model involving STUB1 Cys83, Cys103, and NPM-ALK Cys599, which may modulate the STUB1-NPM-ALK interface and enhance their interaction, thereby promoting ubiquitin-mediated degradation. Crucially, we demonstrate that STUB1 overexpression or pharmacological activation using the FDA-approved cardiac glycoside Deslanoside synergizes profoundly with ATO to inhibit tumor growth both in vitro and in vivo. These findings provide novel mechanistic insight into ATO's action in NPM-ALK+ ALCL and reveal new therapeutic strategies and candidate prognostic biomarkers for patient management.© 2026. The Author(s).
This investigation was conducted to assess the in vivo effects and potential mechanisms of action of phellandrene (PR) and pyrimethamine (PYM) combination therapy in the context of chronic cerebral toxoplasmosis in immunocompromised (ICM) murine models.BALB/c dexamethasone-induced ICM mice infected with the Toxoplasma gondii ME49 strain were treated with PR (10 and 20 mg/kg) alone or in combination with PYM for 2 weeks. The number and diameter of tissue cysts, oxidant/antioxidant markers, cell-mediated immunity indicators (e.g., interferon-gamma [IFN-γ], interleukin-12 [IL-12], IL-4), apoptosis-related genes (e.g., Caspase-3, BAX, and Bcl-2), and pathogenesis-related genes (serine protease inhibitor [serpin A3k] and bradyzoite surface antigen 1 [BAG1]) were examined by qRT-PCR.PR, principally in combination with PYM, reduced the load (26.6 cysts) and size (23.4 µm) of tissue cysts, modulated lipid peroxidation (2.36 nmol/mg tissue), glutathione peroxidase (5.31 U/mg tissue), and superoxide dismutase (47.4 U/mg tissue), and significantly elevated (p < 0.001) the expression levels of cytokines (IFN-γ = 4.12-fold change, IL-12 = 3.91-fold change, and IL-4 = 1.24-fold change) and apoptosis genes (Caspase-3 = 3.1-fold change, BAX = 3.89-fold change, and Bcl-2 = 1.17-fold change), while altering the expression of BAG1 (1.28-fold change) and serpin A3k (3.46-fold change).In summary, PR, particularly in combination with PYM, demonstrated significant therapeutic efficacy against chronic toxoplasmosis in ICM mice. This effect appears to be mediated through modulation of oxidative stress, enhancement of antioxidant defenses, regulation of apoptosis, and improvement of host immune responses. Importantly, no significant toxicity was observed in vital organs. These findings highlight PR as a promising adjunct candidate; however, further pharmacokinetic and clinical investigations are required to confirm its translational potential.
This study aimed to investigate the selective anticancer activity of the curcumin analog PAC (3,5-Bis-4-hydroxy-3-methoxybenzylidene)-N-methyl-4-piperidone). Normal gingival epithelial cells (GECs), cancerous gingival cells (Ca9-22) and tongue squamous carcinoma cells (CAL27) were exposed to increasing concentrations of PAC (0-10 µM) for 24 h. Cell viability and cytotoxicity were evaluated using MTT and LDH assays, while apoptosis and caspase activation were analyzed by Annexin V/PI staining and flow cytometry. Gene-expression profiling was performed using RT2 Profiler PCR arrays. PAC significantly inhibited Ca9-22 and CAL27 cell proliferation in a concentration-dependent manner, with an IC50 value of 5 µM, while exerting no noticeable cytotoxic effects on normal GEC. PAC treatment induced significant early and late apoptosis associated with increased caspase activity in both oral cancer cell lines. Transcriptomic analyses revealed extensive modulation of apoptosis-related genes. In Ca9-22 cells, PAC predominantly suppressed anti-apoptotic and survival-associated genes, including BCL2, BIRC3, BIRC5, XIAP, CFLAR, and NFKB1. In contrast, CAL27 cells exhibited a more pronounced pro-apoptotic transcriptional profile characterized by upregulation of TP53, APAF1, CASP1, BID, and TNF. Gene interaction network analyses further demonstrated that PAC targets highly interconnected apoptotic signaling pathways. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that PAC exerts potent selective anticancer activity against OSCC cells through modulation of intrinsic and extrinsic apoptotic pathways. These results further support the therapeutic potential of PAC as a promising multitarget candidate for oral cancer treatment.
Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is a common and highly lethal malignancy. Tribbles pseudokinase 3 (TRIB3) has been reported to exert oncogenic roles in the pathogenesis of multiple tumors; nevertheless, the detailed mechanisms through which TRIB3 drives RCC development remain largely undefined. In this study, qPCR and Western blot were used to quantify the levels of TRIB3, STIP1 homology and U-box containing protein 1 (STUB1), and activating transcription factor 2 (ATF2). Cell proliferation, invasion, stemness, and angiogenic capacity were assessed by MTT assay, flow cytometry, Transwell invasion assay, sphere-formation assay, and tube-formation assay, respectively. The interaction between TRIB3 and STUB1 was examined by co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP), and the relationship between TRIB3 and ATF2 was verified using dual-luciferase reporter assays. A xenograft model was employed to evaluate the tumorigenic potential of RCC cells upon STUB1 overexpression. The study found that TRIB3 expression was markedly elevated in RCC. Knockdown of TRIB3 profoundly inhibited cell proliferation, invasion, migration, and stem-like properties, while simultaneously inducing apoptosis and promoting ferroptosis. TRIB3 physically interacted with STUB1 and was poly-ubiquitinated and degraded by this E3 ligase; consequently, STUB1 overexpression suppressed RCC progression both in vitro and in vivo by targeting TRIB3. Conversely, ATF2 transcriptionally activated TRIB3 expression, and enforced TRIB3 expression partially rescued the inhibitory effects of ATF2 knockdown in RCC cells. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that TRIB3 drives RCC progression; STUB1 curbs RCC by degrading TRIB3, whereas ATF2 promotes RCC via transcriptional activation of TRIB3. Thus, modulating TRIB3 expression may offer a novel therapeutic strategy for RCC.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Japan Human Cell Society.
Endocrine therapy (ET) selection in estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer (ER + BC) is guided by menopausal status and tolerability rather than tumor biology, despite substantial heterogeneity in recurrence. We hypothesized that baseline gene expression differentially associates with recurrence depending on initial ET class. In a retrospective cohort of 74 ER+/HER2- patients treated with adjuvant ET, we profiled baseline tumor RNA and fitted adjusted Cox models for gene and ET interactions on time-to-recurrence and time-to-switch. Among selective estrogen receptor modulators-initiated patients, higher expression of TP53, WNT7B, UBE2T, BAG1, and ACTR3B was associated with markedly increased recurrence, while no comparable association was observed among aromatase inhibitors-initiated patients. Forty-one percent of patients switched ET at least once, predominantly due to intolerance (joint pain, unspecified side effects); switching was not consistently associated with tumor biology. These hypothesis-generating findings identify candidate gene and ET interactions and motivate validation in larger, independent cohorts.
N6-methyladenosine (m6A) methylation modification plays an essential role in cancer development. This study focused on the mechanism exploration of m6A methyltransferase 3 (METTL3) and its downstream target gene nuclear protein-1 (NUPR1) in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Detection of mRNA and protein was completed using real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction and Western blot. Cellular behaviors were evaluated by CCK-8, EdU, flow cytometry and transwell assay. Ferroptosis was analyzed via Fe2+ level and oxidative indicators. Methylated RNA immunoprecipitation (MeRIP) was performed for validating m6A modification. RIP and dual-luciferase reporter assay were used to confirm METTL3 and NUPR1 combination. Animal research was implemented for METTL3 and NUPR1 analysis in vivo. METTL3 was overexpressed in HCC. METTL3 silencing suppressed HCC cell proliferation and invasion, while enhancing apoptosis and partially inducing ferroptosis. METTL3 downregulation reduced NUPR1 level. METTL3 induced m6A modification of NUPR1 in an IGF2BP2-dependent manner. Tumor-inhibitory effects of METTL3 knockdown were counteracted by NUPR1 overexpression. METTL3 promoted HCC tumor growth and suppressed ferroptosis in vivo by regulating NUPR1. These findings suggested that METTL3 facilitated cell invasion and partially inhibited ferroptosis through catalyzing m6A methylation modification of NUPR1, validating the specific regulatory axis METTL3/NUPR1 in HCC progression.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Oxidative stress and mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation are central drivers of nucleus pulposus (NP) cell senescence and intervertebral disc degeneration (IVDD), yet the transcriptional programs that maintain mitochondrial redox homeostasis in NP cells remain poorly defined. In this study, we investigated the role of forkhead box O3 (FOXO3) in regulating NP cell senescence and mitophagy during IVDD. We found that FOXO3 expression was significantly reduced in degenerated disc tissues and in senescent NP cells. In vitro, FOXO3 overexpression markedly alleviated H2O2-induced senescence, as shown by reduced SA-β-gal positivity, downregulation of p16 and senescence-associated catabolic factors, and partial restoration of extracellular matrix-related proteins. Transcriptomic profiling revealed that FOXO3 suppressed senescence-, NF-κB-, and matrix degradation-associated pathways while activating autophagy-related programs. Mechanistically, FOXO3 enhanced autophagic flux and promoted BNIP3-dependent mitophagy, accompanied by improved mitochondrial ultrastructure, preservation of mitochondrial membrane potential, and reduced mitochondrial reactive oxygen species accumulation. Importantly, BNIP3 knockdown partially abolished the anti-senescent effects of FOXO3, supporting BNIP3-mediated mitophagy as a key downstream mechanism. In vivo, adeno-associated virus-mediated FOXO3 overexpression attenuated puncture-induced disc degeneration, reduced p16 and MMP13 expression, and restored aggrecan and collagen II levels. Collectively, these findings identify FOXO3 as a critical regulator of mitochondrial quality control and NP cell senescence, and suggest that targeting the FOXO3-BNIP3-mitophagy axis may represent a promising therapeutic strategy for IVDD.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42557142 is a review article
Diabetes mellitus (DM) is characterized by chronic metabolic stress that promotes oxidative damage, genomic instability, and premature cellular aging, with adipose tissue senescence being a pivotal contributor to metabolic dysfunction. Yet the impact on DNA damage repair (DDR) and telomere maintenance in adipose tissue remains poorly defined. This study investigated DDR capacity, telomere integrity, and the senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP) in adipose tissue and adipose-derived stromal cells (ADSCs) under diabetic conditions. Using an obese diabetic (ob/ob) mouse model, we confirmed whole-blood telomere shortening, significant adipose tissue hypertrophy, metabolic dysregulation, and elevated DNA damage, evidenced by increased γH2AX-positive staining. In vitro, ADSCs exposed to a diabetic microenvironment (AGEs and TNFα) exhibited increased reactive oxygen species and DNA damage without a corresponding activation of DDR pathways, as indicated by unchanged PARP1 levels and broad downregulation of key DNA repair genes, including sensors (ATM, ABL1, RAD17) and effectors across MMR, NER, HR, and NHEJ pathways. This impaired genomic surveillance was accompanied by premature cellular senescence and significant repression of genes involved in telomere protection (shelterin complex), telomerase activity, and telomere maintenance, together with marked telomere shortening following prolonged exposure. Furthermore, diabetic conditions increased the secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines, chemokines, and growth factors. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that the diabetic microenvironment is associated with maladaptive DDR responses, telomere dysfunction, cellular senescence, and a pro-inflammatory secretory phenotype. This study highlights compromised genomic maintenance as a potential key mechanism underpinning adipose tissue dysfunction in DM and emphasizes the need for future investigations into the mechanisms underlying dysregulated DDR and telomere biology.© the author(s).
The rarer p190 (e1a2) transcript in chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is associated with atypical presentations; yet, its biological basis remains poorly understood. Using a cohort of 60 patients including 42 chronic phase patients age-matched 1:1 with 42 e13a2/e14a2 patients in the chronic phase, we investigated the clinical, genomic, and clonal features of e1a2 BCR::ABL1 CML. We identified 60 e1a2 BCR::ABL1 CML patients showing distinctive hematologic features including lower leukocyte and platelet counts and higher monocytosis (12.3% vs. 2.0%, P < 0.001). Additional somatic mutations were detected in 37/42 (88%) e1a2 BCR::ABL1 cases compared with 7/42 (17%) e13a2/e14a2 BCR::ABL1 cases. The mutational spectrum was dominated by ASXL1 and TET2, and closely resembled CMML-like profiles. Genomic breakpoint sequences of 34 e1a2 BCR::ABL1 cases showed that BCR and ABL1 coordinates were similar to those observed in 394 B-ALL. Longitudinal mutational tracking revealed two distinct clonal architectures. In 71% of patients, mutations disappeared with molecular response, consistent with BCR::ABL1 as the founding event. In contrast, 29% of patients had mutations with stable VAFs, while BCR::ABL1 transcript levels decreased after treatment, indicating that the fusion had been acquired within a pre-existing mutated clone. Single-cell genotyping experiments confirmed these clonal architectures. These patients frequently developed cytopenias under tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy and half required red blood cell transfusions, reflecting persistence of the ancestral clone rather than BCR::ABL1-driven disease. These findings show that e1a2 BCR::ABL1 CML frequently arises within complex, premutated clonal backgrounds, providing a biological basis for its atypical presentation and heterogeneous treatment response.© 2026 The Author(s). HemaSphere published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of European Hematology Association.
Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is a rare hematologic malignancy in children, typically presenting with leukocytosis in the peripheral blood, and often accompanied by symptoms such as fever or splenomegaly. This report describes a rare pediatric case of CML that manifested solely as isolated thrombocytosis. Due to this atypical presentation, the patient was initially misdiagnosed with essential thrombocythemia (ET) and treated with hydroxyurea and aspirin, which yielded no clinical response. The diagnosis of CML was subsequently confirmed by detection of the BCR::ABL1 fusion gene. Upon confirmation, the patient was promptly initiated on imatinib therapy and achieved a complete cytogenetic response within 4 months. We also conducted a literature review of similar cases, discussing their prognosis and differential diagnosis with ET, and recommend early BCR::ABL1 fusion gene testing in all pediatric patients presenting with isolated thrombocytosis to ensure accurate diagnosis.© 2026 He and Fu.
Early achievement of deep remission improves patients' outcome in chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) treatment, highlighting the need for predictive indicators before therapy initiation. This study aimed to investigate whether baseline hematologic profiles are associated with molecular response in CML. Using hierarchical clustering of complete blood count (CBC) data at diagnosis, patients were stratified into two clusters. Patients in Cluster 1 had higher BCR::ABL1IS mRNA levels at 3 and 6 months post-treatment and lower rates of major molecular response compared to cluster 2. Cluster 1 also showed increased granulocyte and immature white blood cell counts and decreased erythroid parameters. Flow cytometric analysis of bone marrow mononuclear cells revealed that cluster 1 had a significant increase in hematopoietic stem cell fractions and a higher ratio of granulocyte-macrophage progenitors to megakaryocyte-erythroid progenitors compared to cluster 2. These findings suggest that differences in bone marrow progenitor cell differentiation affect peripheral blood profiles. Artificial intelligence-driven ghost cytometry (GC) comprehensively captured these differences, distinguishing poor responders, with diagnostic GC scores correlating with BCR::ABL1IS mRNA levels. The study indicates that multivariate analysis of CBC and GC captures biological features associated with early molecular response in CML. TEASER ABSTRACT: Baseline complete blood count (CBC) profiles stratified patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) into biologically distinct groups with different early molecular responses. Poor responders had higher BCR::ABL1IS levels, lower major molecular response rates, expanded hematopoietic stem cell fractions, and granulocyte-macrophage progenitor-biased differentiation. Artificial intelligence-driven Ghost Cytometry (GC) comprehensively captured these response-associated features of CBC with scores correlating with BCR::ABL1IS levels. Together, CBC and GC capture biological features associated with early molecular response in CML.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42543639 is a review article
Tyrosine kinase inhibitors are recommended as maintenance therapy following allogeneic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) for Philadelphia chromosome-positive (Ph+) acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), but optimal medication, dose, and duration remain a subject of ongoing study. We provide the final analysis of a prospective randomized trial comparing prophylactic and minimal residual disease (MRD)-triggered imatinib maintenance. The two patient cohorts did not differ significantly in terms of cumulative incidence of relapse (CIR; 14% vs. 18%), non-relapse mortality (NRM; 12% vs. 11%), leukemia-free survival (LFS) 64% vs. 69%, and overall survival (OS) at 10 years (68% vs. 71%). Endpoints were assessed every 6 weeks within the trial from 4 weeks after SCT until EOS at week 55 and after that according to local standards. In summary, this provides a framework for MRD-based treatment of patients for maintenance after HSCT with excellent long-term outcome after 10 years in both groups.
Individual midbrain dopamine (mDA) neurons exhibit complex morphologies, a feature that may underlie their different functions and disease vulnerability. However, the developmental programs and wiring principles underlying this morphological complexity, particularly in terms of axonal and dendritic architecture, remain largely unknown. To address this, we developed and employed a unique intersectional genetic strategy in mice (Gucy2c-iCre:Pitx3-FlpE:Ai65D [GPA]) that enables specific sparse labeling of mDA neurons across the midbrain from early developmental stages onward. Using this approach, we generated the largest dataset to date of 3D-reconstructed mDA neurons at key developmental stages, in adulthood, and in models simulating Parkinson's disease-related degeneration. Our work identifies previously uncharacterized morphological features across anatomical and molecular mDA neuron subtypes and during axonal degeneration. Moreover, we identify organizational principles-including pre-target axon sorting and subtype-specific connectivity patterns among ventral tegmental area (VTA) neurons-that offer key entry points for understanding how mDA circuitry is established and functions.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The widespread use of injectable antibiotics in intensive poultry production disrupts gut microbial balance and host immune function, potentially affecting nutrient utilization and promoting antimicrobial resistance. To assess the effects of injectable antibiotics on the gut microbiota, host immunity, tissue accumulation, and antimicrobial resistance in ducks, we systematically evaluated six commonly used injectable antibiotics-gentamicin sulfate, oxytetracycline, florfenicol, tylosin tartrate, lincomycin hydrochloride, and enrofloxacin. Although no statistically significant differences were observed in the feed conversion ratio and organ indices over the 28-day trial, antibiotic exposure disrupted microbiota-organ associations, suggesting subclinical effects despite the absence of detectable phenotypic differences. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay results showed a clear class-dependent accumulation of antibiotics in muscle tissues, with tylosin tartrate and enrofloxacin persisting through day 28. Single-molecule real-time full-length 16S rRNA sequencing revealed a significant decline in Escherichia coli abundance and an enrichment of several Gram-positive taxa, indicating a marked restructuring of the gut microbiota following antibiotic exposure. Antibiotic residues in tissues were associated with drug-specific enrichment patterns of antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) and altered host innate immune-related transcriptional profiles, including changes in inflammatory cytokine expression (IL-6, IL-10, and TNF-α). Furthermore, an integrative microbiota-immunity-residue-ARG network was constructed, revealing a conserved association framework centered on TLR2, NF-κB1, TLR4, and IL-6 as network hubs. Collectively, these findings indicate that injectable antibiotics are associated with coordinated alterations in host-microbiota-resistance interactions before measurable growth changes occur. These results provide an integrative framework for evaluating antibiotic-associated risks in poultry production.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Diabetic sudomotor dysfunction, one of the most prevalent complications of diabetic neuropathy (DN), is characterized by impaired sweating due to degenerative changes in sweat glands (SGs) and associated neurovascular networks. Despite its clinical significance, effective treatments remain elusive. Here, we present a multifunctional nanozyme-based platform, Au@Pt coated with ethanolamine-functionalized poly(glycidyl methacrylate) (PGEA), yielding Au@Pt-PGEA (APP), for the efficient delivery of therapeutic nerve growth factor (NGF)-encoding mRNA to modulate the pathological microenvironment and restore SG function. APP exhibits glucose oxidase-like catalytic activity, reactive oxygen species scavenging, oxygen generation, and electroactive properties, collectively reducing oxidative stress and improving the biochemical conditions that constrain tissue repair. When complexed with Ngf mRNA, the resulting APP/Ngf mRNA complex (APPN) promotes endothelial angiogenic responses, induces repair-associated activation of Schwann cells, and enhances neurite outgrowth in vitro. In a late-stage DN murine model, APPN treatment significantly increases perfusion and sweat output, enhances neurovascular reconstruction, and restores SG structural and functional markers. Transcriptomic profiling further reveals APPN-mediated shifts toward reduced inflammatory programs and enhanced pathways linked to oxidative metabolism, tissue regeneration, and peripheral nervous system development. This work establishes a combined strategy for diabetic sudomotor dysfunction through multifunctional nanozyme-mediated gene therapy, underscoring its clinical potential in regenerative medicine.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Interoception, the capacity to sense, perceive, and metacognitively appraise viscerosensory and homeostatic signals, is a growing focus in psychology and psychiatry. Adaptive psychophysical tasks now allow quantification of perceptual sensitivity, bias, and precision in cardiac and respiratory domains. However, accurately estimating these parameters often requires large numbers of trials or participants, posing practical challenges, especially in clinical research where participant availability and tolerance are limited. One approach to reduce participant burden while maintaining statistical rigor is to optimize data analysis. Here, we present hierarchical Bayesian models tailored for cardiac and respiratory interoceptive psychophysics that efficiently estimate sensitivity, bias, and precision at both individual and group levels. Using simulations and empirical data, we validate these models and demonstrate that they allow enhanced inference relative to conventional approaches. To support adoption, we provide openly accessible resources, including a tutorial on implementing and fitting these models in R (written with researchers without modeling expertise in mind) and an app for sample-size justification. These tools facilitate robust, efficient, and generalizable modeling of interoceptive performance, enabling rigorous studies even with limited trials or participant availability.© 2026. The Author(s).
Migraine is one of the most disabling neurological diseases globally; however, a significant proportion of patients do not respond to current treatments, or treatment efficacy diminishes over time, highlighting the need to identify additional molecular candidates for further investigation. Recent studies have increasingly focused on the role of neuro-immune interactions in migraine. This study aimed to identify peripheral immune-related candidate genes associated with NAD+ metabolism-related transcriptional features in migraine through integrated bulk and single-cell transcriptomic analyses. Using the PRJEB40032 dataset, samples were stratified according to ssGSEA-derived NAD+ metabolism scores, followed by differential expression analysis, weighted gene co-expression network analysis and protein-protein interaction network construction. LASSO regression, SVM-RFE, and XGBoost were subsequently applied to prioritize candidate genes. CXCL8, CXCR4, CXCL1, and TNFAIP3 showed cross-algorithm consistency and were subsequently incorporated into an exploratory nomogram, which exhibited apparent discriminatory performance within the PRJEB40032 discovery cohort. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that these genes were associated with immune and inflammatory pathways, including IL-17, NF-κB, TNF, and Toll-like receptor signaling. Immune cell-composition analysis indicated significantly increased estimated abundances or activity scores for NK cells, mast cells, eosinophils, and neutrophils in migraine samples, with positive associations between the prioritized candidate genes and pro-inflammatory immune features. Single-cell RNA sequencing further showed that CXCL1 and CXCL8 were predominantly expressed in monocytes, while TNFAIP3 and CXCR4 were widely expressed across various immune cell types. qPCR assessment in a migraine mouse model showed group-dependent expression alterations in the functionally related murine CXCL1/CXCR2 axis. Overall, this study prioritized peripheral immune-related candidate genes associated with migraine and NAD⁺ metabolism-related transcriptional features, providing exploratory evidence for a potential link among systemic immune alterations, NAD⁺ metabolism-related processes, and migraine.© 2026. The Author(s).
The incidence of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is increasing but clinical outcomes remain poor and new treatments are required. IGF2BP3 is an oncofetal m6A-reading RNA regulatory protein whose expression is commonly observed in PDAC and which may represent an important therapeutic target. IGF2BP3 protein is expressed in >95% of primary tumours whilst RNA expression ranges from 3 to 3000-fold above normal epithelium. siRNA knockdown reveals IGF2BP3 to strongly support expression of gene programs related to DNA replication, cell cycle and apoptosis, TNF signalling and epithelial-mesenchymal transition. Direct sequencing of native RNA further reveals IGF2BP3-mediated enhancement of 863 RNA isoforms with suppression of 389 isoforms. m6A, m5C and pseudouridine (ψ) RNA modifications were seen in 97% of transcripts within the PDAC transcriptome and enriched within MYC gene targets. IGF2BP3 regulated the pattern of RNA modification with a substantial impact on m5C modifications of miRNA and scRNA, and genes associated with regulation of TNF signalling. Knockdown of IGF2BP3 expression in primary tumour organoid cultures suppressed proliferation and elicited apoptosis, indicating a critical requirement for IGF2BP3 within malignant stem cells. These data show that IGF2BP3 is expressed consistently in PDAC, plays a dominant role in regulation of RNA splicing and modification, and supports cancer stem cell proliferation and survival. IGF2BP3 therefore occupies a critical position within the RNA regulon of PDAC and represents an important therapeutic target in this tumour of unmet need.© 2026. The Author(s).
Anti-tumor necrosis factor (TNF) medical therapy is a major advancement for Crohn's disease (CD) management, yet many patients fail to respond. This study aims to develop and evaluate a multi-modal ensemble model to predict anti-TNF treatment response in pediatric patients with CD using pre-treatment magnetic resonance enterography (MRE) and non-imaging clinical data.This retrospective study included 92 pediatric CD patients (median [IQR] age, 14.6 [12.7, 16.6] years; 65.2% male; 37 responders and 55 non-responders) who underwent MRE within 3 months before initiating anti-TNF therapy between 2009 and 2021. Responders achieved mucosal healing within 36 months; non-responders did not, underwent surgery, or changed therapy. Four pre-treatment feature sets were used: (1) radiologist MRE assessment, (2) radiomic features from bowel regions, (3) deep learning features from representative bowel images, and (4) non-imaging clinical features. A 2-stage stacking ensemble model was trained and evaluated. The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUROC) was the primary performance metric.The multi-modal ensemble model integrating all MRE-based features achieved an AUROC of 0.771 [95% confidence intervals (CI): 0.745, 0.797], outperforming models using individual feature types (radiologist assessment: 0.706 [0.691, 0.721]; radiomic: 0.710 [0.691, 0.729]; deep learning: 0.724 [0.700, 0.749]). Combining MRE and clinical features (0.739 [0.696, 0.781]) achieved the highest AUROC of 0.817 [0.793, 0.842], though not significantly (P = .10). Radiomic features reflecting intensity distribution and texture heterogeneity were most predictive of treatment response.A multi-modal ensemble model combining MRE-based radiologist assessment, radiomic, deep learning, and clinical features accurately predicted anti-TNF treatment response in pediatric CD patients.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Crohn’s & Colitis Foundation. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP) is a heterogeneous inflammatory disease with variable outcomes following functional endoscopic sinus surgery (FESS). Predictive biomarkers for post-FESS CRSwNP recurrence remain poorly defined.Identify tissue-based predictors of CRSwNP recurrence after FESS and assess dupilumab-induced modifications.From a cohort of patients with CRSwNP (including NSAID-exacerbated respiratory disease [NSAID-ERD]) who underwent FESS, we retrospectively identified 91 who could be dichotomized by clinical outcome as post-FESS "rapid recurrence" (<1 year) or "slow/no recurrence" (>2 years without recurrence). Nasal polyp tissue was analyzed for 69 inflammatory mediators using proteomics and ELISA. Logistic regression with LASSO feature selection identified candidate predictors. In an independent, second prospective cohort of 17 CRSwNP patients initiating dupilumab, nasal fluid was collected at baseline and after two months of dupilumab and profiled for the same mediators.Twenty-three tissue mediators strongly predicted rapid CRSwNP recurrence (AUC >0.70), including markers of type (T) 2 inflammation (IL-4, IL-13, IL-5Rα, ECP, IgE) and innate inflammation and/or myeloid involvement (CCL3/4/7/8/13, CSF2, IL-1β, IL-6, OSM, MMP12, HIF-1α, TNF-α, TNFSF14). Of these, dupilumab significantly reduced IL-5Rα and several chemokines (CCL3, CCL4, CCL13) but had no effect on key myeloid mediators (CCL8, CSF2, IL-1β, MMP12, HIF-1α).Both T2 and non-T2 mediators play a role in rapid post-FESS recurrence in CRSwNP. T2 blockade with dupilumab reduces T2-associated mediators but does not suppress a parallel innate/myeloid inflammatory axis. The persistence of this axis during treatment suggests that innate and myeloid mediators may underlie severe CRSwNP and could influence disease recurrence once T2 signaling is no longer inhibited, representing potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets to improve long-term disease control.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Both diet and aging shape the gut microbiota, yet how their combined remodeling propagates across microbial function to host barrier and brain outcomes remains poorly understood. Despite abundant links between Short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) and intestinal health, integrative studies that connect community ecology with SCFA linked metabolism, epithelial signaling, systemic inflammation, behavior, and test causal reversibility are limited. In this study, we assessed gut microbiota and function alongside host tissues and behavior. In mice fed a high-fat diet (HFD), particularly in the 12-month-old cohort, we observed hippocampal-dependent cognitive and locomotor deficits (longer escape latency, fewer platform crossings, reduced target-quadrant time; lower distance, speed and center time), accompanied by systemic inflammation, with serum lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and cytokines (IL-6 and TNF-α) elevated and associated with adiposity. We then profiled the gut microbiota and its functions alongside host tissues and behavior, finding that HFD and age reduced α-diversity and shifted β-diversity, with a selective depletion of Muribaculaceae and depressed SCFA-linked pathways. Muribaculaceae abundance positively correlated with predicted SCFA-related pathways, while qRT-PCR of microbial fermentation genes supported concurrent functional alterations. In the colon, ELISA-measured butyrate level, SCFA receptors Ffar2, Ffar3 and tight-junction genes Tjp1 and Ocln were downregulated, with ZO-1 and occludin mislocalization, while serum LPS and inflammatory cytokines increased and associated with adiposity. Notably, an intervention arm showed that sodium butyrate supplementation attenuated cytokinemia, restored Ffar2, Ffar3 and tight-junction expression, improved ZO-1 and occludin integrity, and rescued behavioral performance. Collectively, these findings support an association between Muribaculaceae depletion, reduced SCFA-related functional signatures, impaired barrier associated markers, systemic inflammation, and behavioral deficits under HFD and age-associated conditions. In an intervention setting, butyrate supplementation partially ameliorated inflammatory and barrier-related readouts and improved behavioral performance.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
To evaluate and compare the effects of topical Maresin-1 (MaR1) and cyclosporine A (CsA) in a capsaicin-induced rat model of neurotrophic keratopathy (NK).A total of 40 Sprague-Dawley rats were allocated to five groups (n = 8 per group): Control, NK, NK+Vehicle, NK+CsA (0.05%), and NK+MaR1. Except for the Control group, all animals received a single subcutaneous injection of capsaicin (50 mg/kg) on postnatal day 2. Topical treatments were applied twice daily for 14 days. Corneal TrkA, TNF-α, and Caspase-3 expression were assessed by immunohistochemistry and Western blot.Both treatment groups significantly restored TrkA expression and reduced TNF-α and Caspase-3 relative to NK+Vehicle (p < 0.05 for all). CsA produced greater suppression of TNF-α than MaR1 (p < 0.001), whereas MaR1 demonstrated greater reduction in Caspase-3 than CsA (p = 0.013), with no significant difference between groups for TrkA (p = 0.054).Both MaR1 and CsA significantly attenuated the neurotrophic, inflammatory, and apoptotic changes associated with experimental NK. The distinct efficacy profiles of the two agents suggest complementary mechanisms of action and warrant further investigation of MaR1 in neurotrophic keratopathy.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Corneal neovascularization (CoNV) treatment via ocular drug delivery remains challenging because rapid ocular clearance and limited tissue penetration result in low bioavailability, reduced therapeutic efficacy, and the need for frequent administration. Although polymer-based delivery systems can provide sustained release, their clinical translation may be limited by low drug loading, suboptimal release kinetics, and potential toxicity associated with polymer degradation products. Here, we developed a carrier-free subconjunctival depot platform composed of pure regorafenib crystals, including microcrystals (∼5 µm) and nanocrystals (∼260 nm), to achieve sustained release through a dissolution/diffusion-controlled mechanism without the need for a polymer matrix. Both formulations maintained crystallinity and their initial particle size during 12 months of storage at 4 °C. Nanocrystals exhibited faster dissolution and clearance, whereas microcrystals provided prolonged local retention, maintaining detectable regorafenib levels through eight months after a single administration. In vivo imaging and histological analyses demonstrated the formation of dense monolithic depots within the subconjunctival space, supporting sustained release and local retention. In prophylactic CoNV models, nanocrystals enhanced tissue penetration and produced greater early inhibition of angiogenic sprouting than microcrystals (p < 0.05). In therapeutic models of established neovascularization, a single 2 mg subconjunctival injection of either formulation induced comparable and sustained regression of neovessels for up to eight months, with efficacy significantly greater than that of 0.5 mg bevacizumab administered at 2-month intervals (p < 0.01). In addition, the 1 mg microcrystal formulation reduced TNF-α, IL-1β, and VEGF expression relative to saline-treated controls and were associated with improved corneal epithelial healing compared with bevacizumab. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that carrier-free pure drug crystal depots can provide sustained ocular delivery for at least eight months following a single administration, while crystal size governs the balance between initial tissue exposure and long-term retention.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) is a globally important commercial crop, largely due to the accumulation of nicotine, a parasympathomimetic alkaloid that contributes to its economic value and ecological fitness. While the nicotine biosynthetic pathway has been well characterized, its transcriptional regulation remains incompletely understood. MYB transcription factors are established regulators of plant secondary metabolism, particularly flavonoid biosynthesis; however, their role in nicotine biosynthesis remains unexplored. Here, we demonstrate that the Arabidopsis R2R3-MYB transcription factors AtMYB11, AtMYB12, and AtMYB111 function as positive regulators of nicotine biosynthesis in tobacco for the first time. Overexpression of these MYBs led to significant upregulation of key nicotine pathway genes, including NtPMT, NtODC, NtQPT, NtMPO, NtBBL, and NtA622, resulting in increased nicotine accumulation in both seedlings and mature plants. Notably, AtMYB111 exhibited the strongest regulatory effect. Promoter analysis revealed the presence of MYB-responsive elements in NtODC and NtQPT, and both transient expression assays and yeast one-hybrid studies confirmed direct binding of AtMYB111 to these promoters. Furthermore, exogenous application of an MYB11/12/111-derived complementary peptide (cPEP) recapitulated the induction of nicotine biosynthesis, supporting a functional role of MYB-mediated regulation. Functionally, increased nicotine and flavonoid levels in MYB-overexpressing lines conferred enhanced resistance to the fungal pathogen Alternaria solani and the herbivore Helicoverpa armigera, indicating a direct link between MYB-regulated metabolism and plant defense. Collectively, this study uncovers a previously unrecognized role of these MYB transcription factors in alkaloid biosynthesis and highlights their potential for metabolic engineering of nicotine content and stress resilience in tobacco.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Celery (Apium graveolens L.), an important green leafy vegetable in the Apiaceae family, is rich in various nutrients including dietary fiber. Cellulose is a major component of the celery cell walls and serves as the primary substrate for saccharification. Here, we characterized a cellulose synthase, AgCESA5, that positively regulates cellulose accumulation in celery. The AgCESA5 protein was localized in the plasma membrane. Homologous overexpression of AgCESA5 in 'Jinnan Shiqin' celery revealed increased cellulose content in the petioles of transgenic plants and a looser structural texture of parenchyma cell walls. Furthermore, we identified two R2R3-MYB transcription factors, designated AgMYB59 and AgMYB6, that physically bind to the AgCESA5 promoter, as validated by yeast one-hybrid and dual-luciferase reporter assays. Both AgMYB6 and AgMYB59 exhibited transcriptional activation activity and were localized to the nucleus. In the petioles of five celery cultivars, the relative expression levels of AgMYB59 and AgMYB6 showed expression patterns highly consistent with that of AgCESA5 at both 70 and 100 days after germination. Collectively, these results indicate that AgCESA5 is involved in celery cellulose synthesis. AgMYB59 and AgMYB6 may play important roles in cellulose biosynthesis as regulators of AgCESA5.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565948 is a review article
For proper locomotion, bone and muscle development must be tightly coordinated. Skeletal muscle secretes myokines that affect tissues, including bone. We previously showed that maternal exercise (ME) enhances fetal muscle development through apelin signaling. However, whether mitochondrial dysfunction impairs fetal skeletal development and whether ME mitigates these defects remain unclear. Heterozygous POLG mutant (Polgmut/+) mice were used to examine the effects of ME and apelin signaling on fetal osteogenesis. Pregnant Polgmut/+ females underwent treadmill exercise, and apelin receptor knockdown (ApjKD) mice and maternal apelin supplementation were used to evaluate apelin signaling. POLG mutation impaired fetal osteogenesis and disrupted skeletal morphology. RNA-seq revealed downregulation of pathways related to cytoskeletal organization and mitochondrial function. ME was associated with upregulation of osteogenesis and development. ME increased apelin abundance in maternal-fetal circulation and tissues, including fetal muscle and bone. Importantly, apelin administration increased fetal osteogenesis in POLG mutation, whereas ApjKD reduced osteogenic signaling in fetal bone and myogenic gene expression in fetal muscle. Apelin also enhanced mitochondrial respiration in fetal bone-derived osteogenic cells. Mechanistically, ME-induced apelin signaling was associated with increased mitochondrial biogenesis and enhanced ATF4-RUNX2 regulatory signaling. Collectively, these findings suggest that ME-induced apelin signaling contributes to fetal skeletal development under mitochondrial dysfunction.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is a genetic disorder predisposing patients to malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors (MPNSTs), which represent a leading cause of mortality with poor therapeutic outcomes. Large MPNSTs with NF1 are extremely rare, and only a few clinical reports are published on this disease. We describe a case of giant cervicothoracic MPNST with major vessels encased and present the clinical profiles, radiological findings, operative management, and follow-up data, along with a literature review.A 30-year-old male patient complained of an incidentally discovered painful mass in the right neck that had been progressively enlarging, accompanied by right hand weakness and intrinsic muscle atrophy. Contrast-enhanced MRI revealed a giant tumor closely related with the right brachial plexus and intervertebral foramina of C6-T2. The right subclavian artery and internal jugular vein were tightly encased by the tumor. A multidisciplinary approach incorporating advanced 3D imaging, preoperative vertebral artery embolization, and en bloc resection with vascular reconstruction achieved successful tumor removal while preserving neurological function. The patient received adjuvant radiotherapy and was followed up on the 6th and 12th months postoperatively. There were no complaints or signs of recurrence.The successful long-term outcome provides a valuable template for managing similar high-risk cases, though long-term surveillance remains crucial due to the high recurrence potential of MPNSTs. This report contributes to the limited literature on radical surgical management of NF1-associated MPNSTs and emphasizes the critical balance between oncological control and functional preservation in these challenging cases.© 2026 Yongning, Hongxun, Xiaohai, Kuangwen, Wenbo and Lei.
The resin of masson pine (Pinus massoniana L.) exhibits considerable economic value and primarily consists of diterpenoid resin acids. However, the upstream regulation of the key diterpene biosynthetic gene, PmLAS, remains largely unclear. In the present study, through yeast one-hybrid screening, three PmMYB transcription factors were identified: PmMYB30, PmMYB68, and PmMYB74. Subsequent verification through dual-luciferase assays substantiated that these transcription factors interact with the PmLAS promoter, thereby facilitating its transcriptional activation. Subcellular localization analysis indicated that all three PmMYBs are localized in the nucleus, and transcriptional activation assays in yeast further revealed that their C-terminal regions are responsible for the transcriptional activation activity. Meanwhile, the transcript levels of three PmMYBs exhibited a significant positive correlation with resin yield in the xylem of 12-year-old masson pine trees. Moreover, the heterologous overexpression of these genes in tobacco resulted in a growth-inhibiting phenotype, a marked increase in leaf glandular trichome numbers, and an elevated proportion of diterpenoids compared to wild-type tobacco. To further elucidate the molecular regulation of the PmLAS gene by the transcription factor PmMYB30, yeast two-hybrid library screening was performed to screen its interacting proteins. A RING-type E3 ubiquitin ligase was identified from the screening results and designated PmRDUF1. Subsequent luciferase complementation imaging assays provided further evidence supporting the interaction between PmRDUF1 and PmMYB30. Furthermore, dual-luciferase reporter assays demonstrated that this interaction suppresses the ability of PmMYB30 to activate the expression of PmLAS, forming a PmRDUF1-PmMYB30-PmLAS regulatory module. Collectively, our findings suggest that a complex transcriptional network governs diterpenoid biosynthesis in masson pine, offering new perspectives on the regulation of terpenoid metabolism.© 2026 Scandinavian Plant Physiology Society.
Genetic tumour heterogeneity, driven by clonal evolution, contributes to therapy resistance in many cancers. Most salivary gland cancers, including adenoid cystic carcinoma (AdCC) and myoepithelial carcinoma (MECA), lack effective systemic treatments, highlighting the need to characterise their evolutionary profiles. In this autopsy study, we reconstructed genetic heterogeneity and clonal evolution in two patients with metastatic AdCC and one patient with metastatic MECA. Radiology-guided autopsy was performed between 12 and 56 h after out-of-hospital death. One hundred forty-nine tumour samples were snap-frozen, of which 17 (4-7 per patient) were selected for whole-genome sequencing. Phylogenetic reconstruction was performed using CONIPHER. Autopsy revealed multiple metastatic sites not visible on antemortem or postmortem imaging. MYB-NFIB gene fusions were present across all tumour sites from the two AdCC patients, while a LIFR-PLAG1 fusion was detected in all samples from the MECA patient. All three cases showed extensive genetic tumour heterogeneity and branched phylogenies, suggestive of parallel evolution. Histologic growth patterns were consistent across metastatic sites. Overall, this study demonstrated marked genetic heterogeneity and branched evolution in these AdCC and MECA patients.© 2026 The Author(s). Molecular Oncology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
Gibberellin (GA) promotes seed germination, but sustained or excessive GA signaling after germination can lead to aberrant root and shoot elongation. How GA homeostasis is transcriptionally restrained during post-germinative seedling development remains unclear. Using overexpression and gene-edited maize materials, we demonstrate that ZmMYB59 inhibits root and shoot elongation during post-germinative growth. Integrated RNA-Seq and CUT&Tag analyses identified the GA catabolism genes ZmGA2ox3 and ZmGA2ox10 as candidate direct targets of ZmMYB59. Hormone profiling analysis showed elevated bioactive GA1 and GA4 levels in the scutellum and aleurone layer cells of zmmyb59 mutants. Dual-luciferase assays, electrophoretic mobility shift assays, and ChIP-qPCR further confirmed that ZmMYB59 directly binds AC8 cis-elements in the ZmGA2ox3/10 promoters and activates their transcription. The zmga2ox3/10 double mutant, but neither single mutant, exhibited enhanced root and shoot elongation, accompanied by GA4 accumulation. This phenotype was suppressed by exogenous application of the GA biosynthesis inhibitor uniconazole. Transcriptomic and biochemical analyses further revealed enhanced starch degradation, reduced starch content, and increased soluble sugar accumulation in the double mutant. Taken together, these findings reveal that the ZmMYB59-ZmGA2ox3/10 module restrains GA accumulation and starch mobilization after germination, thereby coordinating reserve utilization with post-germinative root and shoot growth in maize.© 2026 The Author(s). New Phytologist © 2026 New Phytologist Foundation.
Psychedelic drugs, such as lysergic acid diethylamide and psilocybin, have emerged as potentially transformative therapeutics for various neuropsychiatric conditions, including depression, anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder, migraine and cluster headaches. Classical psychedelics exert their effects through activation of 5-hydroxytryptamine 2A receptors (HTR2As). Here we provide a suite of engineered mice that will be useful for clarifying the role of HTR2A in psychedelic drug actions. We generated Htr2aEGFP-CreERT2 mice to identify both HTR2A-EGFP-CT receptors and HTR2A-containing cells, thereby revealing HTR2A distribution in the brain. We also generated humanized Htr2aA242S-EGFP-Cre and constitutive Htr2aCre mice. Psychedelic-induced behavioral changes in these mice validated their utility for these studies. Electrophysiological investigations on brain sections from these mice revealed that 2,5,-dimethoxy-4-iodoamphetamine induced robust increases in firing of genetically identified pyramidal neurons. These mouse lines are valuable tools for investigating the molecular, cellular, pharmacological, physiological, behavioral and other mechanisms of psychedelic actions in vivo.© 2026. The Author(s).
Animal traits develop through intricate patterns of gene expression that are regulated at multiple levels. This regulation includes interactions between transcription factors and cis-regulatory element (CRE) DNA sequences, and the dynamic accessibility of CREs due to chromatin modifications and remodeling. Polycomb Group (PcG) and Trithorax Group (TrxG) genes are evolutionarily conserved regulators of chromatin state. Although the PcG and TrxG genes have well understood roles in developmental gene regulation, the extent to which these complexes contribute to trait evolution remains unclear. Here, we performed a genetic screen to understand how PcG and TrxG genes shape the rapidly evolving gene regulatory network (GRN) responsible for the dimorphic abdomen tergite pigmentation of Drosophila (D.) melanogaster fruit flies. A near-comprehensive screen of TrxG and PcG genes was conducted using RNAi, and numerous genes were identified whose reduced expression caused alterations to tergite pigmentation. For the eight most impactful genes, their roles in regulating this GRN were explored. We assessed their effects on several key transcription factors, and downstream CREs that are responsible for the expression of the GRN's pigmentation enzyme genes. We show that multiple members of the PcG and TrxG complexes are required for distinct tiers in the pigmentation GRN, suggesting potential points where responsive elements for different factors may have evolved. The results set the stage for future studies to identify the direct GRN targets of PcG and TrxG complexes, and how they have participated in the evolution of this GRN.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The Genetics Society of America.
Neuroinflammation plays an important role in the pathobiology of Progressive Supranuclear Palsy Syndrome (PSP-S). However, it is not adequately known whether peripheral inflammation correlates to neuroinflammation in PSP-S. This study aimed to examine a link between peripheral and brain inflammation in PSP-S by integrating blood and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) inflammatory profile and Positron Emission Tomography (PET)-Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) (PET-MRI).Fifty-six PSP-S patients and equal number of healthy controls were recruited. Plasma Th17 pathway cytokine (IL-6, IL-1β, IL-4, IL-10, IL-17A, IL-17F, IL-21, IL-22, IL-23, IL-25, IL-31, IL-33, IFN-γ, sCD40L, and TNF-α) levels were measured in all the study participants. CSF levels of these cytokines were measured only in PSP-S patients. The expressions of NF-κB (Nfkb1, and Nfkb2), inflammasome (Nlrp3, Casp1, and Il18), Th17 (Il1b, Il6, Il17, Tnfa, Il22, Il23, Rorc, and Stat3) and anti-inflammatory (Tgfb, and Il10) genes were quantified in all the study participants. PET-MRI was carried out in a subset of PSP-S patients (n=12) and eleven disease controls (Parkinson's Disease=7, and Multiple System Atrophy=4).Inflammasome (Casp1 and Il18), NF-κB (Nfkb1) and inflammatory (Il1b and Il6) genes were upregulated in PSP-S patients. Plasma IL-1β, IL-6, IL-17A, and IL-17F levels were significantly elevated in PSP-S patients. IL-1β levels significantly correlated between plasma and CSF. PET-MRI indicated neuroinflammation in several brain regions of PSP-S patients.Both systemic inflammation and neuroinflammation are evident in PSP-S. The positive correlation of higher plasma IL-1β levels with neuroinflammation provides preliminary evidence towards the influence of specific peripheral inflammatory molecule on neuroinflammatory basis of PSP-S. The altered immune elements of the current study further reinforce the pathogenic relevance of immune-inflammatory pathways in PSP-S pathobiology.Copyright © 2026 Dey, Kumar, Kumar, Kavya, Mondal, Holla, Kamble, Mahale, Pal, Yadav and Debnath.
Mutations in progranulin gene (GRN) are a major cause of frontotemporal dementia (FTD). Most reported pathogenic mutations are nonsense, frameshift, or splicing mutations, resulting in a premature stop codon, degradation of mutated mRNA and consequent protein haploinsufficiency.In this study, we analysed four subjects with FTD who had low plasma progranulin levels but no mutation detectable by sequencing of GRN, to disclose the underlying genetic cause of disease.Multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA) method was applied to search for rearrangements in GRN. Region-specific polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and Sanger sequencing were performed to define the breakpoint. Quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) on GRN mRNA and haplotype sharing analysis were also performed.MLPA revealed in all the subjects the same heterozygous deletion, and a possible common ancestor was suggested by haplotype sharing. PCR and sequencing allowed us to define the size of the deletion (3028 bp), that removes part of GRN promoter, exon 1 including the transcription start site and most of the intron 1, and the breakpoints. qRT-PCR showed reduced level of mRNA, confirming the pathological nature of the deletion.In this study, we described a GRN heterozygous gross deletion which removes the consensus sequences for transcription factors and the transcription start site, leading to a reduced levels of plasma progranulin. Our study indicates that GRN rearrangements, although not common, should be investigated in patients with FTD who show low plasma progranulin levels but no GRN mutations detectable by DNA sequencing.© 2026. The Author(s).
The gene regulatory networks (GRNs) of eukaryotes are dramatically more complex than the GRNs of prokaryotes, but we lack a complete picture of the selective pressures that have shaped this difference. Here, we use a biochemically informed model of gene regulation to simulate GRN evolution and explore the role that reproductive strategy plays in shaping regulatory complexity. We find that recombining and non-recombining populations converge to the same level of complexity, even in the absence of selection. However, recombination modifies the rate at which complexity emerges, accelerating convergence to the complexity plateau in changing environments while slowing the process in static environments. Our results suggest that, rather than being under direct selection, regulatory complexity may emerge as a byproduct of other evolutionary processes. These results highlight how reproductive strategy and environmental change interact to influence evolutionary trajectories.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Society for Molecular Biology and Evolution.
Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is an independent risk factor for acute myocardial infarction (AMI), but the mechanisms underlying their comorbidity remain unclear. As a newly described inflammatory form of programmed cell death, PANoptosis may play a key role. This study aimed to identify shared pathogenic mechanisms and key targets linking the two diseases.Mendelian randomization analysis was performed to assess the causal relationship between CKD and coronary artery disease (CAD). Shared genes among AMI, CKD, and PANoptosis were identified, followed by functional enrichment analysis. Diagnostic performance of key genes was evaluated using independent cohorts. Single cell sequencing was applied to localize gene expression at the cellular level. In vivo animal experiments were conducted to validate the functional role of the candidate gene SOCS3 in post MI PANoptosis and cardiac function.Mendelian randomization confirmed that CKD is a significant risk factor for CAD. We identified 12 genes shared by AMI, CKD, and PANoptosis, and determined SOCS3 and HSPA1A as key diagnostic genes. Both genes displayed strong diagnostic performance (e.g., AUCs > 0.85 for AMI) in independent cohorts. Functional analysis showed enrichment in pathways including JAK STAT signaling and apoptosis. Single-cell sequencing localized high expression of these genes to monocytes and endothelial cells. Animal experiments demonstrated that knockdown of SOCS3 significantly inhibited expression of key PANoptosis molecules such as CASP1, CXCL10, and ZBP1 after MI, reduced inflammation, and improved cardiac function.PANoptosis was the central pathological link connecting CKD and AMI. As shared biomarkers and intervention targets, SOCS3 and HSPA1A provided new directions for precise diagnosis and treatment of cardiorenal comorbidities.Copyright © 2026 Liu, Xian, Xu, Ma, Huang and Ye.
Fibroblasts are linked to stress responses in a broad number of diseases. Here, we used immortalized mouse embryonic fibroblasts (iMEFs) to elucidate their signaling behavior in response to proinflammatory lipopolysaccharides (LPS) and angiotensin II (Ang-II). To test for the role of the mitochondrial electron transport chain (ETC), iMEFs were cultured in glucose- and galactose-containing media promoting glycolysis and mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation, respectively. In addition, we used alternative oxidase (AOX), a ubiquinol oxidoreductase that serves as a naturally evolved rescue mechanism in case of ETC disruption. We found that within 24 h of treatment, LPS upregulated a number of proinflammatory genes, namely Tlr4, Il6, Tgfb1, Nlrp3, Casp1, and Il1b; largely, the effect was more pronounced in galactose-containing media and attenuated by AOX. The increase in transcripts resulted partly in elevated cytokine secretion. Twenty-four hours of Ang-II treatment also induced these genes, albeit to a lesser degree and less sensitive to AOX. Cellular oxygen consumption rates (OCRs) were higher in galactose media but remained unaffected by either stimulus. Our results suggest that fibroblasts undergo a similar proinflammatory phenotypic shift in response to different stressors. This response is shaped by ETC activity, which, surprisingly, is not reflected in altered OCRs.© 2026. The Author(s).
Beiging of white adipose tissue (WAT) is a promising strategy to enhance energy expenditure and combat obesity, a growing global health burden. Here, we identify a non-canonical role of caspase-1, a cysteine protease, in regulating adipocyte thermogenesis. Caspase-1 expression in adipocytes of inguinal WAT is downregulated upon cold exposure but elevated in obesity. Adipocyte-specific caspase-1 deficiency promotes WAT beiging, increases whole-body energy expenditure, and ameliorates high-fat diet-induced obesity and metabolic dysfunction. Mechanistically, cAMP signaling suppresses Casp1 transcription via C/EBPβ. Proteomic and functional analyses reveal that caspase-1 interacts with and modulates the protein levels of COX7A2L, a subunit of mitochondrial complex IV. Loss of Casp1 stabilizes COX7A2L, thereby enhancing mitochondrial respiration. Moreover, CASP1 expression in human WAT significantly increases with obesity and metabolic dysfunction. Accordingly, we developed a sustained-release delivery system for the caspase-1 inhibitor Ac-YVAD-CHO, which effectively protects against diet-induced obesity and improves glucose tolerance in mice. These findings reveal a previously unrecognized inflammation-independent role of adipocyte-intrinsic caspase-1 in adipose beiging and highlight caspase-1 as a potential therapeutic target for obesity.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42552286 is a review article
Gastric cancer (GC) remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide, especially in advanced stages with limited treatment efficacy. Rhizoma Paridis (RPS), a traditional Chinese medicinal herb, has shown promising antitumor activity, yet its potential anti-GC mechanisms have not been systematically investigated.An integrated computational and experimental framework was established to explore the anti-GC activity and potential mechanisms of RPS. First, the active compounds of RPS and their corresponding targets were identified using UPLC, LC-MS analysis and machine learning (Ml)-driven data mining. Then, the key target genes were determined by the gradient boosting algorithms and their associations with GC were investigated by the deconvolution algorithms, unsupervised clustering and dimensionality reduction methods. Further, the potential compound-target interactions and the mechanism of RPS for treating GC were supported by the molecular docking, Molecular dynamics (MD) simulations, in vivo and in vitro experiments.A total of 118 phytochemicals were identified from RPS, from which 40 candidate bioactive compounds and six hub genes, i.e., BAX, BCL2, VEGFA, KDR, CASP3 and CTNNB1 were prioritized. Functional enrichment analyses suggested that these targets were mainly associated with apoptosis, angiogenesis and Wnt/β-catenin-related signaling pathways. Transcriptomic, prognostic, immune infiltration and single-cell analyses further supported their relevance in GC. Docking and MD simulations indicated favorable binding stability between representative compounds and the key targets. Experimental studies demonstrated that RPS inhibited GC cell proliferation and tumor growth, accompanied by apoptosis-related and angiogenesis-associated molecular changes.RPS exhibits significant anti-GC activity and may exert its effects through the coordinated regulation of apoptosis-, angiogenesis- and Wnt/β-catenin-associated pathways. This study provides a systems-level framework integrating computational analyses with biological validation to investigate the pharmacological effects of complex herbal medicines and offers mechanistic insights into the anti-GC potential of RPS.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Melanoma is an aggressive form of skin cancer characterized by high metastatic potential and increasing incidence and mortality worldwide. Although significant advances have been achieved with immune checkpoint inhibitors and targeted therapies, effective preventive and long-term therapeutic strategies remain limited. Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG), widely used in bladder cancer immunotherapy, exhibits potent immunostimulatory properties and has emerged as a promising platform for recombinant cancer vaccines. Among the candidate antigens, Antigen 85A (Ag85A), derived from Mycobacterium bovis, is notable for its strong immunogenicity and ability to induce robust Th1-mediated cellular immune responses. In this study, recombinant BCG strains overexpressing efficacy was evaluated in melanoma models in vitro and in vivo. Gene expression analysis by RT-qPCR revealed that rBCG-Ag85A induced systemic immune activation, characterized by increased Il1B and Trl4 expression in splenocytes. In tumor tissues, rBCG-Ag85A significantly upregulated genes associated with apoptosis (Bax, Bcl2), oxidative stress (Sod1, Cat), inflammatory and immune signaling pathways (Tlr4, Nfkb, Il12, Il1b, Casp1), and modulation of pathways involved in cellular metabolism (Mtor) indicating enhanced modulation of the tumor microenvironment. Functionally, these molecular and immunological effects were associated with reduced tumor progression, slower tumor growth, and improved survival in B16F10 melanoma-bearing mice. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that rBCG-Ag85A promotes multifaceted antitumor activity through the modulation of apoptosis, inflammation and oxidative stress-related gene expression, highlighting its potential as a promising prophylactic vaccine strategy to prevent cutaneous malignant melanoma and supporting future studies aimed at elucidating the immune cell populations involved and optimizing combinatorial therapeutic approaches.© 2026. The Author(s).
Considering the shared physiological mechanisms between Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD), it is plausible that certain compounds may exert therapeutic effects on both neurological disorders. This study aimed to employ in silico techniques to investigate the pharmacological mechanisms of huperzine A (HA) as an alternative treatment for PD and AD.Molecular targets of HA and genes associated with AD and PD were identified from public databases. Gene Ontology analysis, metabolic pathway analysis, and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network construction were performed to identify shared molecular targets. Molecular docking was performed to assess HA affinity for hub proteins and to compare it with that of drugs used to treat AD and PD.The results suggested that HA interacts with 77 molecular targets common to both diseases. Enrichment analysis revealed that proteins from these targets were involved in biological functions, such as serotonin and amine binding. Hub proteins (SRC, TP53, AKT1, and CASP3) were identified from the PPI network. Furthermore, molecular docking simulations showed favorable binding of HA to the hub proteins and adequate binding to the targets of standard drugs (MAOB and ACHE). On the other hand, molecular dynamics analyses were performed to compare the binding characteristics of HA with those of the control targets.HA may modulate SRC, CASP3, and AKT1, suggesting a pleiotropic mechanism underlying the association between AD and PD. These computational findings provide a rational basis for experimental validation by modulating signaling pathways implicated in inflammatory processes and inhibiting enzymes involved in neurotransmitter degradation.This study contributes to the understanding of the neuroprotective activity of HA in AD and PD. However, further in vitro and in vivo investigations are required to confirm the dual therapeutic potential of HA in the treatment of AD and PD.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42565211
Genome-wide analyses of transcription factor (TF) motif binding sites have largely emphasized individual high-affinity sites, while overlooking the regulatory importance of locally repetitive motif clusters. Such clusters, including combinations of weak and strong binding sites, can collectively enhance TF occupancy and regulatory activity. Here we present Motif-Cluster, an open-source framework for motif-driven prioritization and visualization of TF binding clusters using sequence information alone. Motif-Cluster integrates a density-based clustering strategy with flexible modeling of binding-site gaps and affinity signals, enabling the identification and ranking of candidate regulatory regions without requiring experimental binding data. Through simulations and multiple real-data analyses, we show that combining gap distributions with binding affinity effectively balances cluster size and signal strength while reducing noise from weak sites. Application to ZNF410 successfully recovers the previously characterized binding clusters in the CHD4 promoter, which are conserved between human and mouse. Additional case studies involving PHB1, TWIST1, and EGR1 further demonstrate the general applicability of the method across diverse transcription factors. Motif-Cluster also provides intuitive visualization and reproducible workflows to facilitate interpretation of spatially dense motif patterns. Overall, Motif-Cluster offers a robust and flexible approach for prioritizing transcription factor regulatory regions from genome-wide motif scans, enabling biological discovery and guiding experimental design, particularly in settings where direct genome-wide binding assays are unavailable.Copyright: © 2026 Zhou, Yao. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Researches on Tripterygium glycosides tablets (TGT) often overlook renal toxicity from prolonged use. Rubus chingii Hu (RCH) is beneficial to kidney health and has an unclear role in reducing nephrotoxicity. This study used UHPLC-Q Exactive HFX to identify Kaempferol, Hydroxygenkwanin, and Luteolin as key active components of RCH. Network pharmacology revealed RCH could protect the kidneys by modulating TNF, IL-17, NF-kappa B, and JAK-STAT pathways through targets such as BCL2, CASP3, TNF, SIRT1, EGFR, and MMP9. Biochemical and pathological studies show that TGT induces kidney injury in rats, while RCH improves kidney function and reduces inflammation and oxidative stress. Western blot confirmed that RCH could regulate the expression of TNF-α, cleaved caspase-3, and SIRT1 proteins. Transcriptomics and metabonomics reveal significant enrichment in metabolic pathways like glycerophospholipid metabolism and inflammation signaling pathways such as PPAR and JAK-STAT. After RCH treatment, most differential genes remain stable, but all 20 key metabolites are restored. Further analysis indicates that steroid hormone biosynthesis and the PPAR signaling pathway are vital for RCH's protective effects, as it regulates CYP1B1, CYP4A1, CYP4A3, EHHADH, HMGCS2, and PPARG genes, alleviating TGT-induced nephrotoxicity.© 2026 The Author(s). Food Science & Nutrition published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Triclosan (TCS), a compound ubiquitous in personal care products, is now a prevalent environmental contaminant across various ecosystems and has been detected in human tissue samples. Despite its prevalence and strong association with female infertility, the mechanisms by which TCS induces ovarian toxicity have not been thoroughly studied. This study employed an integrated approach combining network toxicology, molecular docking, transcriptomics, and cell experiments to systematically investigate the molecular mechanisms linking TCS to two core ovarian dysfunction diseases: polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) and premature ovarian insufficiency (POI). The physicochemical properties and multi-organ toxicity of TCS were predicted using ADMETlab 3.0 and SwissADME. Following the retrieval of TCS, PCOS, and POI-associated targets from public databases, a PPI network was built to pinpoint central hubs. Subsequently, GO and KEGG enrichment analyses were conducted to delineate implicated biological pathways. Molecular docking was conducted to evaluate the binding affinity of TCS to core proteins. Transcriptomic analysis was performed on the ovarian granulosa cell line KGN exposed to 10 μM TCS, a concentration close to human exposure levels. Cell biology experiments were further employed to validate the findings. The network toxicology results indicated that TCS induces ovarian toxicity primarily by promoting apoptosis and triggering inflammatory responses. Key targets identified included AKT1, EGFR, TNF, IL6, and CASP3, which exhibited strong binding affinities, suggesting direct interactions. Transcriptomic analyses further confirmed disruptions in cytokine receptor binding and apoptosis pathways. Cell experiments confirmed that TCS exposure significantly promotes apoptosis and increases the production of inflammatory cytokines in two types of ovarian granulosa cell lines, SVOG and KGN. Overall, this study provides a conceptual framework for TCS-induced ovarian dysfunction and offers new insights for future research on the mechanisms underlying the ovarian toxicity of TCS.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Osteoporosis (OP) is a progressive skeletal disorder often exacerbated by pharmacological agents. Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), particularly esomeprazole, have been epidemiologically linked to OP, but the underlying mechanisms remain unclear.This study mined over 55 million adverse event (AE) records from the FDA Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) between 2004 and 2024 to identify drug-related OP signals. Four statistical algorithms (ROR, PRR, BCPNN, EBGM) were applied for signal detection. Logistic regression was used to assess independent risk factors. Esomeprazole, the most frequently reported PPI, was further investigated using a network toxicology framework. Drug-target predictions, differential gene expression analysis, protein-protein interaction network construction, molecular docking and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations were conducted to explore potential molecular hypotheses.A total of 52 drugs showed potential OP-related reporting signals. Among PPI-associated OP-related reports, esomeprazole accounted for the largest proportion and was the only PPI with positive signals across all four algorithms. Logistic regression showed that esomeprazole, age, sex, and low body weight were associated with OP-related adverse event reporting. Time-to-onset analysis showed a median latency of 3.5 years. Network toxicology analysis identified 26 overlapping candidate genes between predicted esomeprazole targets and OP-related DEGs. GO and KEGG analyses highlighted bone-related pathways, including MAPK, Notch, and PI3K/AKT signaling. Protein-protein interaction network analysis identified CXCR4, AKT1, and CASP3 as candidate hub genes. Molecular docking and 100-ns MD simulations supported the binding plausibility and conformational stability of the predicted esomeprazole-target complexes.This pharmacovigilance and computational toxicology study suggests a notable association between esomeprazole and PPI-associated OP-related adverse event reporting. The identified targets and pathways, including CXCR4, AKT1, and CASP3, provide exploratory mechanistic clues and hypothesis-generating evidence. These findings may support individualized bone health risk assessment in long-term PPI users and provide a basis for future validation studies.Copyright: © 2026 Wang et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Lung cancer remains one of the leading causes of cancer-related mortality worldwide, and although Cytarabine (CYT) exhibits anticancer activity, its clinical application is often restricted by dose-dependent toxicity. In this study, we investigated the synergistic anticancer potential of the NCBI-registered probiotic Streptococcus thermophilus Ab.342 SH (GenBank accession no. PX426457) in combination with CYT against human lung adenocarcinoma A549 cells. Following molecular identification of the probiotic isolate, A549 cells were treated with different concentrations of bacterial cell-free supernatant (CFS), CYT, or their combination, while human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) were used to evaluate selective cytotoxicity. Cell viability was assessed using the MTT assay, apoptosis-related gene expression was analyzed by qRT-PCR, and apoptotic cell death was confirmed by Annexin V-FITC/PI flow cytometry. The CFS alone reduced A549 cell viability in a dose-dependent manner without significant cytotoxicity toward HUVECs. CYT monotherapy exhibited an IC₅₀ of approximately 40 μg/mL, whereas combination treatment with S. thermophilus CFS (OD₆₀₀ = 1.2) reduced the IC₅₀ to 145 ng/mL, representing an approximately 276-fold dose reduction. Combined treatment significantly upregulated PTEN, BAX, CASP3, CASP8, CASP9, P53, P21, and FAS expression while suppressing AKT, mTOR, BCL-2, and IκB, accompanied by a marked increase in apoptotic cells. These findings demonstrate that S. thermophilus Ab.342 SH markedly enhances the anticancer efficacy of CYT while substantially reducing the required drug dosage, supporting the potential application of probiotic-based adjuvant therapy for safer and more effective lung cancer treatment.© 2026 The Author(s). Food Science & Nutrition published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Fusobacterium nucleatum (Fn) drives chemotherapy resistance in colorectal cancer (CRC) by activating hypoxia-mimicking signaling pathways, yet the molecular mechanisms linking Fn to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) resistance remain unclear. We investigated how Fn-induced hypoxia-related gene expression contributes to 5-FU resistance and identified a pharmacological strategy to overcome it.DEGs from Fn-infected CRC cells (GSE90944) were intersected with GSEA hypoxia-related genes, and Cox regression on TCGA-CRC data prioritized the top candidate, DDIT3. Its role in 5-FU resistance was characterized in vitro by Western blotting, qPCR, cell viability, and flow cytometry. LinkedOmics co-expression analysis mapped DDIT3-associated networks, and Salvia miltiorrhiza constituents were screened for DDIT3 inhibition.DDIT3 was the most prognostically significant Fn-regulated hypoxia gene in CRC (HR: 1.544 [1.083-2.201], p = 0.016). Fn upregulated DDIT3 and activated the mitochondrial unfolded protein response (mitoUPR), suppressing 5-FU-induced ROS and reducing chemosensitivity; DDIT3 knockdown reversed these effects. A DDIT3-SLC3A2-CARS axis was identified as the key downstream pathway sustaining mitochondrial homeostasis. Salvianolic acid B (SAB) selectively suppressed this axis, restored ROS cytotoxicity, and improved 5-FU chemosensitivity in Fn-infected CRC cells.Fn drives 5-FU resistance via DDIT3-mediated mitoUPR activation and ROS suppression through the DDIT3-SLC3A2-CARS axis. SAB disrupts this pathway, providing a rational basis for SAB-5-FU combination therapy in Fn-associated CRC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Intrafollicular transfer of immature oocytes (IFIOT) is a promising embryo production strategy, but outcomes remain poor and inconsistent. We investigated the effects of the injection procedure and the number of injected cumulus-oocyte complexes (COCs) on the biochemical and molecular environment of follicles. First, dominant follicles from hormonally synchronized heifers were either not injected (NIFIOT), injected with medium only (IFIOTM), or injected with medium containing COCs (IFIOT-COCs). Follicular fluid (FF) was analyzed for cell-free DNA (cfDNA), oxidative stress markers (GPx activity and FRAP), steroid hormones, and metabolomic profiles using UPLC-HRMS. Injection procedure increased cfDNA levels and altered steroidogenesis, with higher progesterone levels, lower estradiol levels, and lower E2/P4 ratios in the injected follicles. Metabolomic analysis revealed changes in amino acid and anti-inflammatory pathways on the injected follicle compared to the non injected. In addition, follicles were injected with 25 or 50 COCs (IFIOT25 and IFIOT50) to assess the impact of oocyte number on the follicular environment. IFIOT25 follicles showed higher GPx activity and estradiol concentrations compared to IFIOT50, whereas IFIOT50 follicles exhibited the downregulation of redox- and stress-related genes (SOD1, GPX4, NFE2L2, HSP70, and CASP3) and lower embryo yield compared to IFIOT25 (42 vs 52%, respectively). Metabolomic analysis indicated alterations in lipid and energy metabolism, with key metabolites (creatine, l-acetylcarnitine, dodecanoic acid, and panthenol) reduced in the IFIOT50 group, suggesting impaired metabolic homeostasis at higher oocyte density. Overall, both the injection process and oocyte number influenced follicular physiology, potentially affecting oocyte quality, highlighting the need to refine IFIOT protocols.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for the Study of Reproduction. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Plastic additives are pervasive pollutants that readily leach into water, affecting human health; however, their toxicological risk assessment remains limited. This study used network toxicology to identify disease-associated common targets in plastic additives, including benzotriazole, bisphenol A, 2,4-Di-tert-butylphenol, mirex, diphenyl ether, bisphenol S, dibutyl phthalate, PFNA, and PFBS. The core targets identified using network toxicology for these plastic additives were AKT1, PTGS2, BCL2, ESR1, and GSK3B. In addition, an integrated in silico toxicity assessment of selected plastic additives using molecular docking, MM/GBSA analysis, and molecular dynamics simulation was performed to assess neurotoxicity, reproductive toxicity, and carcinogenic potential. Molecular docking revealed the high-scoring docked complexes as PTGS2-benzotriazole (-5.047 kcal/mol), PTGS2-bisphenol A (-5.264 kcal/mol), PTGS2-diphenyl ether (-5.078 kcal/mol), PTGS2-bisphenol S (-5.519 kcal/mol), PTGS2-2,4-di-tert-butylphenol (-5.565 kcal/mol), ESR1-benzotriazole (-5.339 kcal/mol), and ESR1-2,4-di-tert-butylphenol (-5.626 kcal/mol). The stability of highly interacting complexes was then assessed through MM/GBSA calculations and molecular dynamics simulations. A more negative ΔGBind score in MM/GBSA analysis indicated a stronger and more favourable interaction. In silico analysis of plastic additive-biological target interactions identified potential carcinogenic, reproductive, and neurological health hazards and revealed key molecular pathways underlying plastic additive-induced toxicity. Further in vitro/in vivo studies are required to validate these computational findings.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Dapagliflozin shows variable renoprotective efficacy in patients with type 2 diabetic kidney disease (T2DKD). A retrospective clinical analysis confirmed marked interindividual variability in its urinary protein-lowering effects. To investigate the mechanism, drug affinity responsive target stability (DARTS) combined with quantitative proteomics was applied for target identification. Subsequent in vivo and in vitro validation suggested that GSK3β acts as a mediator of dapagliflozin-associated nephroprotection. Dapagliflozin directly bound and partially inhibited GSK3β, and GSK3β activity influenced podocyte protection. To translate findings into clinical relevance, a prospective trial was conducted. The GSK3B rs60393216 polymorphism was associated with urinary albumin-to-creatinine ratio (UACR) reduction after dapagliflozin therapy. These findings suggest that GSK3β contributes to the renoprotective effects of dapagliflozin and that GSK3B polymorphisms may influence therapeutic responses in T2DKD.© 2026 Published by Elsevier Inc.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a prevalent respiratory disease characterized by airflow limitation, with genetic factors playing a crucial role in its pathogenesis. Effective-component compatibility of Bufei Yishen formula Ⅲ (ECC-BYF Ⅲ) has been shown to effectively ameliorate COPD symptoms; however, its underlying molecular mechanism remains elusive.To investigate the intervention mechanism of ECC-BYF Ⅲ on COPD and identify hub genes.Using the GSEA method, which retains all gene information, and exhibits robustness under small-sample conditions as well as high statistical power, COPD-related pathways were identified. Among the genes contained in those pathways, hub genes were identified by protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis, cytoHubba algorithm, etc. The reliability of the identified hub genes was validated by independent datasets, qRT-PCR in rats with COPD, HUVEC and MH-S cells, molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulations (MD), and surface plasmon resonance (SPR).Compared with COPD rats, ECC-BYF Ⅲ could ameliorate pathological changes and improve lung function. Then, utilizing the RNA-seq data from COPD rats, 106 disease related pathways were identified in the COPD group when contrasted with the control group (FDR < 0.05), of which 72 pathways were reversed after ECC-BYF Ⅲ intervention. Of the 3081 genes in those reversal pathways, 395 genes were differentially dysregulated in the COPD rat samples as opposed to the control samples (FDR < 0.05). Then, six genes (Gsk3b, Ctnnb1, Pten, Met, Pik3r3, and Erbb2) were identified by PPI network analysis, cytoHubba algorithm, and GeneCards database. Two hub genes (Ctnnb1 and Pik3r3) were well confirmed in independent datasets, the COPD rat model, HUVEC and MH-S cells, molecular docking, MD, and SPR.Two COPD hub genes were identified, and their regulation by ECC-BYF Ⅲ was demonstrated. Our results might provide a basis for the study of the mechanism of COPD, and its prevention and treatment guided by traditional Chinese medicine.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Recent research has identified pyroptosis as a distinct form of programmed cell death that is strongly correlated with tumor outcomes. However, its value as a prognostic biomarker in clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) is not yet fully established.Differential expression of pyroptosis-related genes between ccRCC and normal tissues was identified using the DESeq2 R package. Next, univariate and least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) Cox regression analyses using data from The Cancer Genome Atlas cohort were applied to develop a prognostic model. Univariate and multivariate prognostic analyses were conducted to determine whether the risk score could independently predicted patient prognosis after adjustment for clinicopathological characteristics. A nomogram was then constructed to estimate patient survival probability, supporting clinical decision-making. Expression of pyroptosis-related proteins was assessed using tissue proteomic data from the Clinical Proteomic Tumor Analysis Consortium (CPTAC) database. Additionally, the Tumor-Immune System Interaction Database (TISIDB) database was used to analyze immune cell infiltration, whereas gasdermin B (GSDMB) expression in ccRCC cell lines was assessed by Western blot (WB) and quantitative PCR (qPCR) experiments, with immunohistochemistry applied to measure the levels of GSDMB and programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1).A prognostic risk model was developed using nine genes related to pyroptosis (AIM2, CASP5, GSDMB, GSDMD, NLRP7, NOD2, PYCARD, SCAF11, and NLRP6), employing both univariate Cox and LASSO regression analyses. Based on the median risk score, ccRCC samples were divided into high- and low-risk categories, with Kaplan-Meier analysis revealing poorer survival rates for the high-risk group. Time-dependent receiver operating characteristic curve analysis confirmed the predictive performance of the model for ccRCC prognosis. Furthermore, a nomogram with calibration plots was developed to predict 1-, 3-, and 5-year survival probabilities for patients with ccRCC. Notably, these pyroptosis-related genes were strongly correlated with immune cell infiltration, including cytotoxic cells, CD56bright natural killer cells, and T helper cells. Subsequently, qPCR and WB analyses confirmed elevated GSDMB expression in ccRCC cells, and immunohistochemistry demonstrated a strong correlation between GSDMB and PD-1 expression.Pyroptosis-associated genes, namely AIM2, CASP5, GSDMB, GSDMD, NLRP7, NOD2, PYCARD, SCAF11, and NLRP6, are promising prognostic biomarkers for ccRCC, and may serve as prognostic biomarkers for predicting patient survival and informing immunotherapy strategies.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Cordycepin, a natural nucleoside analogue, exhibits anti-inflammatory and antitumor activity in multiple malignancies. However, the molecular basis of its action in pancreatic cancer and its potential role in chemosensitization remain incompletely defined. In this study, the effects of cordycepin on malignant phenotypes of pancreatic cancer cells were investigated in vitro. Network pharmacology was applied to identify candidate targets and construct a disease-drug-target-pathway network. Reverse virtual screening and molecular docking were used to predict key binding proteins, while RNA sequencing identified downstream pathways regulated by cordycepin. Target engagement was validated using cellular thermal shift assays, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics simulations. The underlying mechanistic pathways were further confirmed by functional experiments, and the therapeutic efficacy of cordycepin in combination with gemcitabine was evaluated. Our results demonstrated that cordycepin reduced the growth of pancreatic cancer cells and induced G2/M phase arrest and apoptosis. Network pharmacology identified 56 hub targets enriched in oncogenic pathways, including PI3K/AKT pathway. Reverse virtual screening revealed 111 candidate binding proteins, and intersection with hub targets highlighted five key effectors: CDK2, GSK3B, IL2, NOS3, and PARP1. Transcriptomic profiling showed marked disruption of cell cycle pathways, and CDK2 was validated as a direct molecular target of cordycepin. Cordycepin suppressed TNNI2 transcription by inhibiting the CDK2/E2F2 axis. Furthermore, cordycepin acted synergistically with gemcitabine to enhance antitumor responses and promote apoptosis in pancreatic cancer models. Collectively,cordycepin exerts antitumor activity in pancreatic cancer by targeting the CDK2/E2F2 axis to suppress malignant progression and by concurrently sensitizing cells to gemcitabine, thus holding promise as a therapeutic agent.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Ulcerative colitis (UC), a common inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), is characterized by chronic mucosal inflammation. Our previous work established a link between cellular senescence and UC, suggesting that ameliorating cell senescence could be a therapeutic strategy for UC. In this study, we identified dehydrodiisoeugenol (DDIE) as an anti-senescence drug through screening in a DSS-induced colonic epithelial cell senescence model. In a DSS-induced acute mouse model of UC, DDIE effectively suppressed colonic senescence and significantly alleviated UC. Network pharmacology, colonic tissue transcriptomic analysis, and Western blot assays indicated that DDIE's therapeutic effects in UC are associated with the AKT and GSK3B pathways. Subsequent cellular blocking experiments utilizing the AKT activator insulin and the GSK3B inhibitor BIO confirmed that activating AKT or inhibiting GSK3B reversed the anti-senescence and anti-inflammatory effects of DDIE. Our findings demonstrate that DDIE treats UC by inhibiting AKT and activating GSK3B, thereby suppressing cellular senescence and restoring the intestinal barrier. This research offers a novel therapeutic strategy for UC from the perspective of anti-cellular senescence.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Intervertebral disc degeneration (IVDD) is a degenerative disease characterized by degradation of the extracellular matrix (ECM) in the nucleus pulposus, disruption of the fibrous ring structure, and imbalance of the inflammatory microenvironment. It is the main cause of chronic low back pain. Its pathogenesis is closely related to cellular aging and immune inflammation. Aging nucleus pulposus cells release pro-inflammatory factors such as IL-6 and TNF-α through the secretion of senescence associated secretory phenotype (SASP), recruiting M1 macrophages to infiltrate and forming a vicious cycle of "aging inflammation matrix destruction." This study systematically analyzed the molecular mechanism by which kaempferol improves IVDD through multi-target regulation by integrating bioinformatics analysis, animal experiments, and cell models. Bioinformatics screening revealed significant abnormal expression of genes such as AURKB, CCNB1, AXL, NEK6, and PTK2 in IVDD degenerated tissues. Downregulation of CCNB1 induced G2/M phase arrest by inhibiting CDK1 activity, while activation of GSK3B inhibited the Wnt signaling pathway by phosphorylating β-catenin, exacerbating ECM catabolism. Proteomics further confirms that the NOX4 mediated ROS-p38 MAPK pathway promotes cell apoptosis and SASP secretion. Immune infiltration analysis showed that M1 macrophages were significantly enriched in degenerated intervertebral discs, and their secreted IL-6 and TNF-α amplified the inflammatory cascade by activating the NF-κ B pathway. Animal experiments have shown that intervention with kaempferol can partially restore the intervertebral disc height index (DHI), downregulate the levels of IL‑1β and TNF‑α, upregulate the expression of CCNB1 and AURKB (which were downregulated in the IVDD model), thereby alleviating G2/M phase arrest and promoting cell cycle progression, inhibit AXL and PTK2, and reduce macrophage infiltration. Mechanistically, kaempferol inhibits NOX4 activity by clearing ROS, blocking the vicious cycle of oxidative stress‑inflammation; by regulating the NEK6/NF‑κB axis, the expression of MMP‑3 and ADAMTS‑4 is reduced, delaying ECM degradation; and improve the immune microenvironment by promoting macrophage polarization towards the M2 phenotype. In addition, kaempferol can reverse the metabolic imbalance mediated by GSK3B. This study reveals for the first time that kaempferol upregulates core gene networks such as AURKB and CCNB1 while suppressing AXL through the "anti‑inflammatory anti‑aging" dual pathway, thereby breaking the "aging‑immunity" crosstalk and restoring cell cycle homeostasis, providing a new strategy for natural compound intervention in IVDD treatment.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Tetrabromobisphenol A mono(2-hydroxyethyl) ether (TBBPA-MHEE) is an important byproduct during the production of tetrabromobisphenol A (TBBPA) and its related derivatives. Although it has been detected in aquatic environments, its in vivo developmental toxicity and underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. In this study, zebrafish were used as a model organism to evaluate the early developmental toxicity, neurobehavioral toxicity, and candidate molecular responses associated with TBBPA-MHEE. The 96 h median lethal concentration (96 h-LC50) of TBBPA-MHEE for zebrafish embryos/larvae was 1.684 mg/L. Sublethal nominal exposure concentrations (2, 20, and 200 μg/L) caused developmental abnormalities, including reduced body length, pericardial edema, impaired swim bladder development, and significantly inhibited spontaneous motor activity as well as the response to light-dark transition and mechanical stimulation. Transgenic reporter assays further showed shortened motor neuron projections, reduced brain-region fluorescence in Tg(gad1b:mCherry) larvae, and downregulated the expression of neurodevelopment-related genes. Network toxicology analysis suggested that MTOR, SRC, MAPK3, and GSK3B were identified as candidate targets potentially associated with TBBPA-MHEE-induced neurotoxicity, with significant enrichment of the ErbB signaling pathway and possible perturbation of PI3K/Akt/mTOR-related responses. In addition, TBBPA-MHEE exposure increased the accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in the larval brain and induced inflammatory and apoptotic responses. Quercetin intervention partially alleviated ROS accumulation and inflammation and improved the developmental and motor phenotypes. Collectively, these findings indicate that TBBPA-MHEE induces neurodevelopmental toxicity in zebrafish, possibly associated with altered transcriptional responses related to ErbB signaling and the PI3K/Akt/mTOR axis, accompanied by oxidative stress, inflammatory responses, and apoptosis-related events. Because exposure concentrations were not analytically verified, all treatment levels are reported as nominal concentrations. This study provides experimental evidence for the toxicological assessment and environmental risk evaluation of TBBPA derivative pollutants.
Huntington disease (HD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease caused by an expanded CAG repeat in the HTT (huntingtin) gene, leading to the accumulation of mutant HTT (mHTT). IL17A (interleukin 17A), a proinflammatory cytokine primarily secreted by Th17 and γδ T cells, has been implicated in immune-mediated neurodegeneration. However, the role of IL17A in the pathogenesis of HD remains poorly understood. Here, we identify IL17A as a critical pathogenic factor in HD that promotes neuroinflammation, mHTT aggregation, and autophagy-lysosomal dysfunction. IL17A disrupts autophagic flux by downregulating CTSB and CTSD, inducing SQSTM1/p62 and MAP1LC3B-II/LC3-II accumulation, and impairing lysosomal reformation. Mechanistically, IL17A suppresses lysosomal biogenesis by inhibiting the nuclear translocation of TFE3. This regulation occurs via a novel GSK3B/GSK-3β-TFE3 signaling pathway. Therapeutic neutralization of IL17A with a monoclonal antibody (IL17A mAb) ameliorates disease phenotypes in R6/2 HD mice, improving motor performance, extending survival, and reducing gliosis. IL17A mAb also attenuates mHTT aggregation and enhances neuroprotective signaling, as evidenced by increased expression of DLG4/PSD-95, phosphorylated CREB1, and BDNF. Moreover, IL17A mAb restores autophagy-lysosomal function by facilitating the clearance of protein aggregates and upregulating lysosomal enzymes and biogenesis markers, including CTSB, CTSD, PIP5K1A, and LAMP2. These findings establish IL17A as a key modulator of HD pathophysiology and highlight IL17A inhibition as a promising therapeutic strategy for targeting autophagy-lysosomal dysfunction in HD.
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a prevalent and chronic joint disease characterized by progressive cartilage degeneration and chronic inflammation. Isoliquiritigenin (ISL), a bioactive flavonoid derived from licorice, has demonstrated significant anti-inflammatory potential in various diseases. However, its specific molecular targets and systemic mechanisms in the treatment of OA remain to be fully elucidated. This study aimed to investigate the potential targets and molecular mechanisms of ISL in OA treatment using an integrated pharmacological and experimental approach.Overlapping targets between ISL and OA were identified using multiple public databases. A PPI network was constructed to identify hub genes, followed by GO and KEGG enrichment analyses to predict key signaling pathways. A ceRNA regulatory network was also established. Furthermore, molecular docking was employed to assess the binding stability between ISL and core targets, and the findings were validated through histopathological evaluation (Mankin score) and RT-qPCR analysis in a rabbit ACLT-induced OA model.A total of 79 shared targets were identified, from which 11 core targets were selected for further investigation. Enrichment analysis revealed that the therapeutic effects of ISL are primarily associated with the MAPK, PI3K-Akt, and mTOR signaling pathways, which are essential for maintaining chondrocyte homeostasis. Molecular docking indicated that ISL exhibits strong binding affinities (all binding energies < -5.0 kcal/mol) for the core targets. In vivo experiments confirmed typical cartilage degradation in the OA group, accompanied by significantly elevated Mankin scores. RT-qPCR results verified the significant differential expression of six core targets (IGF1R, PLAU, EGFR, PTGS2, PPARG, and GSK3B) in the OA cartilage, validating their involvement in OA pathogenesis.In this study, we preliminarily determined the potential therapeutic effects of ISL on OA through its modulation of multiple targets and complex signaling pathways. The integration of network pharmacology and in vivo validation suggests that ISL may exert its anti-OA effects by targeting key inflammatory and metabolic mediators identified in our PPI and ceRNA networks.ISL is predicted to have substantial potential for clinical application in OA treatment. These findings provide a novel theoretical foundation and specific candidate targets for future research into targeted therapeutic strategies for OA.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains the leading cause of dementia worldwide, and beta-secretase 1 (BACE1) remains a high-priority target for reducing amyloid-beta production. Nobiletin, a polymethoxylated flavonoid from citrus peel, has reported neuroprotective and amyloid-lowering effects in AD models, and previous enzymatic work suggested weak BACE1 inhibition; however, its replica-level binding stability and residue-level energetic determinants remain unresolved. Here, we analyzed the nobiletin-BACE1 complex using ChEMBL-based chemical-space contextualization, qualitative QSAR uncertainty assessment, molecular docking, triplicate 200-ns all-atom molecular dynamics simulations, molecular mechanics generalized Born surface area (MM-GBSA) end-point scoring, residue-level decomposition, ProLIF interaction fingerprints, electrostatic surface analysis, and a same-protocol OM99-2 structural control. The ligand remained locally accommodated within the BACE1 cleft across the sampled trajectories, with a mean internal MM-GBSA score (DeltaG_bind) of - 15.71 +/- 0.76 kcal/mol (n = 3: - 14.20, - 16.35, and - 16.57 kcal/mol). Residue-level decomposition identified ARG128 as the dominant computed hotspot (total mean = - 11.13 +/- 0.38 kcal/mol), with favorable van der Waals (VDW mean = - 6.88 +/- 0.21 kcal/mol) and Coulombic (Coulomb mean = - 4.25 +/- 0.53 kcal/mol) components. Additional hydrophobic/aromatic packing involved VAL69, TYR71, PRO70, PHE38, and PRO129, while ASP32/ASP228 were positioned outside the dominant nobiletin contact pattern. Together, these results support a putative ARG128-associated, non-dyad-dominant catalytic-cleft recognition model that should be interpreted as a hypothesis-generating computational framework for future biochemical testing and scaffold optimization.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
Pelvic organ prolapse (POP) is a prevalent condition characterized by weakened pelvic floor tissues, significantly impacting women's quality of life. Current treatments, including synthetic meshes and native tissue repair, face challenges of high recurrence rates and complications. This study developed a novel tissue-engineered strategy utilizing a decellularized human amniotic membrane (HAAM) scaffold seeded with autologous adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cells (ADSCs) and vaginal wall fibroblasts (HVFs) to construct a bioactive pelvic ligament equivalent. We first validated the successful preparation of HAAM with preserved extracellular matrix integrity and characterized the phenotypic markers of ADSCs and HVFs. In a rat abdominal wall defect model, the HAAM+ADSCs+HVFs composite demonstrated superior tissue regeneration and integration, reduced fibrosis, and effective modulation of the host immune microenvironment -evidenced by enhanced repair and decreased infiltration of pro-inflammatory cells -compared to all control groups (including HAAM alone and single-cell groups). Transcriptomic analysis revealed that the composite treatment promoted extracellular matrix organization and collagen synthesis while suppressing matrix degradation (MMP2/MMP9) and inflammatory pathways. Most importantly, mechanistic studies identified TGFB2 as the key paracrine mediator through which ADSCs exert their effects: TGFB2 inhibition abolished ADSCs-induced improvements in HVFs proliferation, migration, and anti-apoptosis, while its overexpression replicated these benefits. Western blot confirmed that TGFB2 coordinately upregulates COL1A1/COL3A1 and downregulates MMP2/MMP9 to restore ECM homeostasis. These comprehensive findings demonstrate that the HAAM-based ADSCs-HVFs composite promotes functional tissue regeneration via TGFB2-mediated mechanisms, offering a safe, effective, and regenerative therapeutic strategy with strong translational potential for POP.Copyright © 2026 Dong, Zhang, Duan and Xia.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) features Aβ-driven neuroinflammation and synaptic dysfunction that converge on cognitive decline, underscoring the potential value of multi-target interventions. Aurantio-obtusin (AO), a bioactive anthraquinone from Cassia obtusifolia L., exhibits reported anti-inflammatory and antioxidant activities; however, whether AO counteracts Aβ-associated behavioral impairment through coordinated modulation of inflammatory and synaptic alterations remains unclear. Here, we investigated whether AO alleviates Aβ₁₋₄₂-induced cognitive deficits and examined synapse- and inflammation-related molecular correlates. Male C57BL/6 mice received intracerebroventricular Aβ₁₋₄₂ to establish an acute AD-like model and were treated with AO (10 mg/kg/day, oral gavage) for consecutive weeks. The results showed that AO improved spatial learning and memory in the Morris water maze, recognition memory in the novel object recognition test, and working memory in the Y-maze, without affecting spontaneous locomotor activity. Furthermore, AO alleviated synaptic dysfunction by restoring synaptophysin expression and upregulating GAD65, and mitigated neuroinflammation by elevating anti-inflammatory factors (IL-4, IL-10, ARG1) and reducing TNF-α. In vitro experiments confirmed that AO was non-cytotoxic to N2AAPP cells across 0-80 μM, mildly downregulated BACE1 expression, and suppressed the Aβ-induced upregulation of pro-inflammatory mediators (IL-6, iNOS) in BV2 microglial cells. Overall, AO attenuated Aβ1-42-driven behavioral impairment in parallel with improvements in synapse-associated markers and inflammatory readouts. These findings support further evaluation of AO as a natural compound associated with modulation of Aβ-related neuroinflammatory and synapse-associated alterations.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the predominant subtype of lung malignancy. Accumulating epidemiological evidence demonstrates that environmental lead (Pb) exposure as a critical driver of its initiation and progression.This study integrated network pharmacology, molecular docking, and in vitro assays to investigate the oncogenic effects of low-concentration Pb on A549 cells and explore the potential therapeutic mechanisms of osthole and matrine.Network pharmacology identified key potential signaling pathways, and molecular docking screened genes with higher binding affinity to the target. MTT assay was used to determine CC50, maximum safe concentration (MNTC) and cellular proliferative capacity of Pb, matrine and osthole. Scratch test and Matrigel invasion test detected A549 cell migration and invasion; flow cytometry detected apoptosis, ∆Ψm, ROS and cell cycle. qRT-PCR and Western blot measured gene expression levels.Network pharmacology analysis showed that the shared targets of osthole, Pb and NSCLC were mainly enriched in the PI3K/AKT and apoptosis pathways, while matrine, Pb, and NSCLC targets were primarily enriched in cancer metabolism, key hub genes included CDK2, CASP9, IKBKB, PDPK1 and MDM2. Molecular docking demonstrated that osthole showed strong binding to HSD11B1 and CDK2, while matrine exhibited high affinity for DRD4 and CDK2. Considering the essential functions of CDK2 in G1 phase transition, PDPK1, IKBKB, and CASP9 in cell survival, inflammatory signaling, and mitochondrial apoptosis, and MDM2 in p53-mediated cell cycle regulation, phenotypic validation experiments were conducted. Pb exposure significantly enhanced malignant characteristics of A549 cells, including increased migratory and invasive abilities, decreased apoptosis, and a significant reduction in mitochondrial membrane potential. At the molecular level, Pb exposure disrupted cellular homeostasis, as reflected by altered expression of SIRT-1, NRF-1, TGF-β1, Smad, STAT3, STAT1, and mtTFA. Treatment with osthole or matrine effectively reversed all lead-induced abnormalities.Taken together, osthole or matrine exerts anti-cancer effects against Pb- promoted NSCLC progression by restoring disrupted cellular homeostasis through modulating cell cycle progression, inhibiting Pb-induced mitochondrial dysfunction and stress-related signaling imbalance.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains a formidable global health challenge, driving the urgent need for potent and selective therapeutics targeting β-site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1), a key enzyme involved in the generation of amyloid-β (Aβ) peptide and a promising target for disease-modifying interventions. In this work, approximately 16 million small molecules from diverse databases were subjected to ligand-based virtual screening (LBVS), using LY3202626 as a reference compound, to identify new potent inhibitors of BACE1. LY3202626 is a highly potent, central nervous system (CNS) penetrant BACE1 inhibitor (IC50 = 0.615 nM) that has progressed to clinical trials, demonstrating efficacy at low doses against BACE1 activity. The lead candidates identified using ensemble molecular docking displayed stronger binding affinities (-11.2 to -9.6 kcal mol-1) to BACE1 as compared to LY3202626. Notably, molecular mechanics Poisson-Boltzmann surface area (MM-PBSA) analysis revealed high-affinity binding of ChEMBL3667410 (C1), ChEMBL3667414 (C2), and ChEMBL3976114 (C5) with binding affinities of -32.9 ± 0.8, -33.6 ± 1.8, and -36.1 ± 1.7 kcal mol-1, respectively, to BACE1 as compared to LY3202626 (-29.9 ± 1.8 kcal mol-1). Furthermore, MD simulations demonstrated enhanced structural stability and reduced residual fluctuations in BACE1 on the incorporation of C1, C2, and C5, as compared to apo-BACE1 and BACE1-LY3202626. Interestingly, the conformational snapshots, flap distances, and free energy landscape (FEL) analyses highlighted a closed flap, Val67-Glu77 (non-active) conformation in BACE1-C5 in comparison to an open flap (active) conformation in apo-BACE1, and partial restriction in the access to the active site of BACE1 due to the flap movement noticed in the presence of LY3202626, C1, and C2. Notably, conformational microstate analysis revealed key hydrogen bond interactions of C5 with the 10s loop (Gly11, Gly13), flap residues (Trp76), the catalytic residue (Asp228), Gly230, and Thr231 of BACE1, depicting its high-affinity binding to key residues of BACE1 and its potential as an effective inhibitor of BACE1 activity. The comprehensive in silico methodology in this work illuminated the inhibitory mechanism of LY3202626 and top hit compounds against BACE1 activity for the first time, which, in turn, will be highly valuable in further optimization and structural refinement using various functional group modifications to yield more potent next-generation therapeutic candidates against BACE1 in AD.
The aim of this study was to compare, using ELISA, plasma levels of amyloid beta (Aβ)40, Aβ42, beta-site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE-1), total tau (t-tau), and phosphorylated tau (p-tau), as well as the Aβ42/Aβ40 ratio, between patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and healthy controls, and to evaluate their diagnostic performance in relation to demographic and lifestyle factors.This study is a single-center, cross-sectional, case-control study. Twenty-four individuals diagnosed with AD and 37 healthy volunteers included in the study. Alongside the analysis of plasma samples obtained from the participants, demographic data were analyzed to assess the potential influence of lifestyle and environmental factors on disease development.Analysis of the case data showed that increasing age was a risk factor for AD, higher education level was associated with an increased risk of AD, and tea consumption was inversely associated with AD. While age is a well-known risk factor, both the increased risk of AD associated with higher education and the relatively protective effect of tea consumption against AD are supported by the literature. Evaluation of the levels of Aβ40, Aβ42, BACE-1, t-tau, and p-tau and of the Aβ42/Aβ40 ratio revealed no significant differences between the patient and control groups. Additionally, Aβ40, Aβ42, BACE-1 showed correlations in both the control and Alzheimer's groups, whereas t-tau did not.None of the investigated plasma biomarkers (Aβ40, Aβ42, BACE-1, t-tau, p-tau, and the Aβ42/Aβ40 ratio) discriminated Alzheimer's patients from healthy controls, with all receiver operating characteristic area under the curve values below 0.62. These findings indicate that in this cohort, plasma levels of these individual markers did not provide diagnostic value; larger longitudinal studies including cerebrospinal fluid comparisons and multi-marker panels are needed.
PLXDC2 is a single-pass transmembrane glycoprotein expressed in multiple stem and immune-related cell types. In human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs), PLXDC2 mRNA and its corresponding protein have been confirmed by transcriptome analysis and mass spectrometry; however, surface detection by flow cytometry using the monoclonal antibody #4G3 cannot be achieved after routine TrypLE dissociation. This failure is attributable to degradation of protease-sensitive epitopes by TrypLE and membrane-associated proteases such as BACE-1 (β-site APP cleaving enzyme 1). To retain these epitopes, we evaluated a protease-free mechanical dissociation procedure in combination with BACE-1 inhibition during both cell dissociation and antibody staining. This approach enabled reproducible flow cytometric detection of PLXDC2 on 201B7 hiPSCs. Western blot analysis of membrane fractions similarly showed increased PLXDC2 signal intensity when samples were processed in the presence of a BACE-1 inhibitor. These results demonstrate a practical method for improving PLXDC2 detection in hiPSCs and provide a general strategy for analyzing cell-surface proteins that are susceptible to proteolytic cleavage.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The Golden Barrel Cactus (Echinocactus grusonii, syn. Kroenleinia grusonii), native to Mexico, is well known in horticulture but remains insufficiently studied with respect to its chemical composition. This study examined the chemical profile and neuroprotective potential of Echinocactus grusonii spines and its endophytic fungus, Aspergillus oryzae. The spines contained markedly higher levels of phenolics (293 mg gallic acid/g DW extract), flavonoids (132 mg quercetin/g DW extract), and alkaloids (14.5 mg atropine/g DW extract) compared to the stem. Untargeted metabolomics (UPLC-HRMS/MS) tentatively identified 27 metabolites in the spines and 14 in the fungal extract. Both extracts exhibited potent, dose-dependent inhibition of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and β-secretase (BACE-1). The spines extract showed IC₅₀ values of 0.362 µg/mL (AChE) and 0.425 µg/mL (BACE-1), while the fungal extract was more effective against AChE (IC₅₀ = 0.255 µg/mL). In silico docking was performed for all identified compounds, and molecular dynamics simulation of the top-scoring candidates demonstrated stable interactions with the target enzymes. These findings highlight the spines of Echinocactus grusonii and their associated endophytes as promising dual-target neuroprotective sources for the management of neurodegenerative disorders.© 2026. The Author(s).
Visual dysfunction is increasingly recognized as an important feature of Alzheimer's disease, and substantial retinal changes have been documented across multiple studies. Yet the molecular changes underlying retinal neurodegeneration and which retinal protein signatures best track cerebral pathology remain incompletely defined. Here, we performed comprehensive mass spectrometry-based proteomics on paired retinal and hippocampal tissue from the same postmortem donors (8 AD, 8 non-demented controls) to identify disease-associated molecular signatures and assess their overlap between these tissues. Using a sequential dual-extraction protocol, we identified 372 differentially abundant retinal proteins in AD, including established APP-processing regulators (SORL1, BACE1) and synaptic proteins. Retinal proteomes clearly separated AD from controls in principal component analysis, indicating robust AD-related molecular differences in the retina. Notably, 87% of proteins were detected in both retina and hippocampus, with 64 differentially abundant proteins shared between tissues, some of which showed strong cross-tissue correlation. Several retinal proteins also correlated with neuropathological disease stage. Functional enrichment analysis revealed convergent alterations in synaptic organization, cytoskeletal dynamics, mitochondrial function, cell adhesion, and APP metabolism in both tissues. Cell-type mapping using single-cell retinal reference data indicated that most proteomic changes were broadly distributed across cell types, though some proteins showed enrichment in specific populations, such as SORL1 in microglia and EYS in photoreceptors. The molecular changes identified here offer a potential basis for the retinal alterations previously documented through in vivo imaging and histological studies. Their similarities with brain pathology further support the retina as a promising window for assessing cerebral disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
Pulmonary hypertension is a malignant cardiovascular disease characterized by pulmonary vascular remodeling, with core pathological features including pulmonary arterial wall thickening and elevated pulmonary vascular remodeling due to aberrant proliferation of pulmonary arterial smooth muscle cells (PASMCs). The molecular regulatory mechanisms underlying pulmonary vascular remodeling remain incompletely understood.Transcriptome sequencing was employed to screen for differentially expressed genes in lung artery tissues of control and Sugen5416 combined hypoxia-induced rat models. A series of in vitro and in vivo experiments, including scratch assays, EdU staining, Cell Counting Kit-8cell proliferation assays, immunofluorescence, immunoblotting, and overexpression/knockdown techniques, were performed to investigate the molecular mechanism by which KRT17 (keratin 17) induces PASMCs proliferation and promotes pulmonary hypertension vascular remodeling.KRT17 was found to be highly expressed in lung tissues of patients with pulmonary hypertension, as well as in pulmonary arterial tissue and hypoxic PASMCs models. Both in vivo and in vitro experiments demonstrated that KRT17 was a critical regulator of PASMCs proliferation. METTL14 (methyltransferasean14, an m6A methyltransferase complex subunit) was identified as a potential modulator of KRT17 RNA methylation, enhancing its RNA stability and protein expression. Furthermore, KRT17 promoted PASMCs proliferation through upregulation of LCN2 (lipocalin-2).Our study reveals a novel molecular mechanism by which KRT17 expression is regulated via METTL14-mediated m6A methylation, and further elucidates the role of KRT17 in inducing PASMCs proliferation through the LCN2 signaling pathway. These findings provide significant theoretical insights for the development of innovative therapeutic targets for pulmonary hypertension.
Following traumatic brain injury (TBI), inflammation of the nerve and death of nerve cells are intimately associated with the unfavorable prognosis of TBI patients. This study aims to examine the function of programmed cell death protein-1 (PDCD1) signaling in neuroinflammation and nerve cell death following TBI in mice, as well as its impact on the recuperation of cognitive, memory, and motor capabilities, and to initially analyze its underlying mechanism. In vivo investigations employed a controlled cortical impact (CCI) murine model. BV-2 cells were activated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to create an in vitro model of microglial inflammation. The outcome indicates that TBI significantly and temporarily increased the expression of PDCD1 in vivo, with PDCD1 mostly expressed in microglia and neurons, but not in astrocytes. Knockdown of PDCD1 led to an increase in the protein expression levels of IL-1β, iNOS, and Bax, whereas the levels of Bcl-2, p-PI3K, and p-Akt dropped. Nonetheless, the overexpression of PDCD1 yielded contrary outcomes; furthermore, LY294002 may partially counteract the effects of PDCD1 overexpression and diminish its expression levels. And the results of further cell experiments in vitro were consistent with those in vivo. PDCD1 expression is elevated in both in vivo TBI models and in vitro microglial inflammation models. Moreover, PDCD1 mitigates neuroinflammation and nerve cell death, at least partially, via the PI3K/Akt pathway.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Gastric adenocarcinoma (GAC) remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality, particularly in patients with peritoneal carcinomatosis, for whom effective therapies are limited. We investigated the therapeutic efficacy and molecular mechanism of CYD-4-61, a BAX activator, using human GAC cell lines, patient-derived xenograft models, genetically engineered mouse models, and a syngeneic mouse model. CYD-4-61 potently inhibited tumor cell proliferation, induced apoptosis, and suppressed cancer stem cell-like properties, with enhanced activity in radiation-resistant GAC cells. Mechanistically, CYD-4-61 activated the BAX-caspase pathway, leading to SOX9 protein reduction. Integrated bulk and single-cell transcriptomic analyses identified SOX9-dependent transcriptional programs as major targets of CYD-4-61. Functional rescue experiments together with chromatin immunoprecipitation and CUT&RUN analyses supported CDK4 as a SOX9-regulated gene and demonstrated suppression of the SOX9-CDK4 regulatory axis following CYD-4-61 treatment. In multiple preclinical models, CYD-4-61 significantly inhibited tumor growth and improved the therapeutic response to anti-programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) therapy while modulating the tumor immune microenvironment. Clinically, co-expression of SOX9 and CDK4 was associated with diffuse-type GAC and poor patient outcomes. These findings identify the BAX-SOX9-CDK4 axis as an important mechanism contributing to the antitumor activity of CYD-4-61 and provide a strong preclinical rationale for its further development as a therapeutic strategy for aggressive GAC.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Chronic fatty acid (FA) elevation drives metabolic dysfunction-associated liver disease (MASLD). Hepatocytes buffer transient lipid overload via coordinated adaptive mechanisms, but the temporal limits of this capacity remain undefined.We characterized early, intermediate, and prolonged hepatocellular responses to sustained lipid excess.HuH7 hepatocytes were exposed to an equimolar palmitic/oleic acid (PA/OA) mixture for 1, 14, or 28 days. Viability, lipid accumulation, stress-response pathways, insulin signaling, metabolic regulators, mitochondrial markers, [14C]-PA uptake, and exo-metabolomic profiles were assessed (n≥3/group). Data (mean ± SEM) were analyzed by two-way ANOVA with Bonferroni post hoc testing; cumulative cell death by linear regression. P<0.05 was significant.FA treatment increased lipid droplet accumulation 1.4- to 1.7-fold vs. time-matched BSA controls at all time points (p<0.001) and increased the rate of cumulative cell death ∼4.3-fold (1.556±0.083 vs. 0.365±0.054%/day, p<0.001). Exo-metabolomic PCA explained 88.5% of variance (Q2=0.758), with peak lactate release at Day 14 and progressively rising acetate through Day 28. [14C]-PA accumulation at Day 28 was ∼30% lower than Day 1 (∼800 vs. ∼500 cpm/mg protein), with a declining rather than plateauing profile between 20-60 s. By Day 28, FA-treated cells showed lower FASN (p<0.001), CD36 (p<0.05), FABP1 (p<0.001), SIRT1 (p<0.005), and CLOCK (p<0.01) protein levels, and higher CPT1A (p<0.001), pAMPK/AMPK (p<0.01), p53 (p<0.001), Bax/Bcl2 (p<0.005), and respiratory complex I-V abundance (p<0.05-p<0.001) vs. controls.Sustained PA/OA exposure induces a staged hepatocellular response, early lipid-buffering adaptation, intermediate metabolic compensation, and late decompensation, indicating that chronic lipotoxicity reflects progressive loss of regulatory coordination despite persistent metabolic adaptation.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Ischemic stroke (IS) reperfusion induces neuronal damage through excessive reactive oxygen species (ROS) and neuroinflammation. Baicalin (Bai) shows antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effects but suffers from poor solubility and bioavailability. MOF-818, a zirconium-based framework with superoxide dismutase-and catalase-mimicking activity, efficiently scavenges ROS but lacks pharmacological versatility. Combining Bai with MOF-818 may offer multitarget neuroprotection in IS. To investigate the therapeutic efficacy and mechanisms of Bai-loaded MOF-818 (Bai@MOF-818) in IS. In vitro oxygen-glucose deprivation/reperfusion (OGD/R) models using PC-12 cells and BV-2 microglia were employed to assess ROS scavenging, mitochondrial protection, apoptosis, and microglial polarization.In vivo, Bai@MOF-818 was stereotactically delivered into the ischemic core of rats subjected to transient middle cerebral artery occlusion. Neurological function, infarct volume, oxidative stress, apoptosis, and microglial polarization were evaluated. Bai@MOF-818 markedly scavenged ROS, restored mitochondrial membrane potential, and promoted M1-to-M2 microglial polarization via NF-κB inhibition and PPARγ activation. This led to reduced TNF-α/IL-6 and increased IL-10/Arg-1, alleviating neuroinflammation. Furthermore, Bai@MOF-818 inhibited neuronal apoptosis by suppressing Bax and cleaved caspase-3 while elevating the Bcl-2/Bax ratio. Histological analyses revealed preserved tissue integrity, 5 enhanced neuronal survival, reduced infarct size and edema, and improved motor and sensory recovery. Bai@MOF-818 exerts synergistic antioxidant and anti-inflammatory actions, attenuates neuronal apoptosis, and enhances neurological recovery, representing a promising multitarget therapeutic for cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury.NA.
Selenium nanoparticles (SeNPs) have emerged as promising anticancer agents due to their selective cytotoxicity and ability to modulate oncogenic signaling pathways. In this study, we developed a novel L-cysteine-modified selenium nanoparticles (L-SeNPs) system and investigated its antitumor effects and underlying molecular mechanisms in ovarian cancer cells. Our results demonstrated that L-SeNPs significantly inhibited cell proliferation and clonogenic potential in a dose- and time-dependent manner in A2780 and SKOV3 ovarian cancer cells. Mechanistically, L-SeNPs induced intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation, which subsequently resulted in DNA damage, as indicated by the accumulation of γ-H2AX. Treatment with the ROS scavenger N-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC) markedly attenuated L-SeNPs-induced DNA damage, indicating that ROS generation serves as an upstream event in this process. L-SeNPs further triggered mitochondrial apoptosis characterized by activation of Bax, Bak, and cleaved PARP-1, along with downregulation of Bcl-2. Transcriptomic profiling revealed significant enrichment of the FOXO signaling pathway following L-SeNPs treatment, with GADD45A identified as a key upregulated downstream effector. Further mechanistic studies demonstrated that ROS-mediated DNA damage promoted FOXO3a nuclear translocation, leading to transcriptional activation of GADD45A. Functional experiments confirmed that both FOXO3a and GADD45A are essential for L-SeNPs-induced apoptosis, and restoration of GADD45A partially rescued apoptotic activity in FOXO3a-silenced cells, indicating that GADD45A acts downstream of FOXO3a. In conclusion, L-SeNPs exert potent antitumor effects in ovarian cancer cells by inducing ROS-mediated DNA damage and activating the FOXO3a-GADD45A axis, thereby triggering mitochondrial apoptosis and suppressing tumor cell proliferation. These findings provide new mechanistic insights into selenium-based nanomaterials and suggest the FOXO3a-GADD45A pathway as a potential therapeutic target for ovarian cancer treatment.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
The selection of appropriate in vitro inflammatory models is critical for mechanistic studies of neuroinflammation and the screening of anti-inflammatory therapeutics. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) combined with interferon-γ (IFN-γ) and LPS combined with adenosine triphosphate (ATP) are widely used to induce microglial inflammation; however, their distinct phenotypic characteristics and optimal applications have not been systematically compared. In this study, we combined transcriptomic profiling with functional assays to compare these two inflammatory paradigms in BV2 microglia. Our results showed that both models activated the chemokine-cytokine inflammatory network and induced the production of inflammatory mediators and chemokines, but exhibited distinct molecular and functional biases. LPS/IFN-γ stimulation preferentially upregulated genes such as Lcn2, Ccl2, Upp1, and Pim2, which are associated with innate immune activation, chemokine-mediated inflammatory responses, and cell survival signaling, and was accompanied by marked increases in NO and TNF-α production. In contrast, the LPS/ATP model preferentially upregulated genes associated with ECM/cell adhesion, inflammatory and cellular homeostatic regulation, oxidative stress, and calcium-dependent secretion, including Thbs1, Thbd, Srxn1, Syt7, and Procr. Functionally, this model exhibited more pronounced IL-1β maturation and release, relatively lower NO production, and greater mitochondrial dysfunction and cell injury. Pharmacological inhibition of NLRP3 with MCC950 significantly attenuated ATP-induced IL-1β maturation, supporting the involvement of the NLRP3 inflammasome in the LPS/ATP model. Overall, the LPS/IFN-γ model is more suitable for investigating the NO/iNOS-TNF-α axis, IFN-γ-mediated synergistic pro-inflammatory responses, and classical pro-inflammatory activation, as well as for screening anti-inflammatory agents. In contrast, the LPS/ATP model is more appropriate for studying IL-1β maturation and release, NLRP3 inflammasome activation, mitochondrial damage, and inflammation-related cell death, as well as for screening inflammasome inhibitors. Our findings provide an empirical framework for rational model selection in microglial inflammation research.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Recent studies have revealed heterogeneity among ribosomes. Pathological cardiac hypertrophy is characterized by profound alterations in translation. However, how ribosome heterogeneity contributes to this process remains largely unclear.We used translating ribosome affinity purification coupled with mass spectrometry to profile ribosome-interacting proteins. Cardiomyocyte-specific gene manipulation was achieved through either genetic knockout or adeno-associated virus-mediated overexpression. Pathological cardiac hypertrophy was induced by transverse aortic constriction surgery in vivo and by phenylephrine stimulation in vitro.The cardiomyocyte-specific ribosome proteomics indicated dynamic alterations in ribosome-interacting proteins during pathological hypertrophy. Notably, multiple proteins associated with ribosome stalling were detected in the ribosome-interactome of hypertrophic hearts. Among these, we verified that CDK5RAP3 (CDK5 regulatory subunit-associated protein 3) exhibited the most specific ribosome binding in hypertrophic hearts. CDK5RAP3 was upregulated and recruited to ribosomes during pathological hypertrophy. It promoted RPL26 (ribosomal protein L26) UFMylation and ribosome-associated quality control on the mitochondrial surface. In vitro, CDK5RAP3 knockdown exacerbated cardiomyocyte hypertrophy induced by phenylephrine, whereas its overexpression attenuated it. In vivo, cardiomyocyte-specific CDK5RAP3 knockout promoted, while adeno-associated virus-mediated overexpression suppressed pathological cardiac hypertrophy induced by transverse aortic constriction. Mechanistically, ribosome stalling on the mitochondrial surface was exacerbated in hypertrophic hearts of both humans and mice, which was associated with impaired mitochondrial protein import. CDK5RAP3 enhanced ribosome-associated quality control, alleviated ribosome stalling, and restored mitochondrial protein import, thereby improving mitochondrial function. Notably, mitochondrial import of PDP1 was maintained by CDK5RAP3-mediated ribosome-associated quality control. Knockdown of PDK (pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase) 1/2, functional antagonists of PDP1, reversed cardiomyocyte hypertrophy caused by CDK5RAP3 deficiency.This study identifies CDK5RAP3-mediated ribosome-associated quality control on the mitochondrial surface as a critical protective mechanism that preserves protein import and mitochondrial function during pathological cardiac hypertrophy.
Platinum-based chemotherapy remains the cornerstone of ovarian cancer treatment, yet acquired resistance severely limits efficacy. Because platinum agents can also influence immunogenic cell death and tumor microenvironment (TME) remodeling, clarifying cellular pharmacological mechanisms of sensitivity and resistance within the ovarian cancer tumor ecosystem is important for understanding therapeutic failure.We integrated single-cell RNA-seq from treatment-naïve and post-neoadjuvant chemotherapy ovarian tumors with bulk multi-omics cohorts to map epithelial tumor heterogeneity, transcriptional reprogramming, pathway activation, immune infiltration, and inferred cell-cell communication networks. DUSP5 was identified as a candidate regulator linked to stress-adaptive programs. Functional validation included qPCR, proliferation, migration, colony-formation, carboplatin dose-response, and xenograft assays following stable DUSP5 knockdown.Single-cell analysis revealed chemotherapy-associated epithelial states with enhanced stress, EMT, hypoxia, and inflammatory signatures. Elevated DUSP5 expression correlated with MAPK/JAK-STAT/TGF-β signaling, myeloid/stromal infiltration, and clinical outcome differences in independent cohorts. DUSP5 depletion suppressed proliferation and migration, amplified carboplatin-induced MAPK transcriptional responses and pro-apoptotic signaling (BAX/PUMA upregulation, BCL2 downregulation), reduced IC50 values in both OVCAR8 and SKOV3 cells, and significantly inhibited xenograft tumor growth.DUSP5 may contribute to platinum response and resistance by linking tumor-intrinsic adaptive programs with TME-associated features in ovarian cancer. These findings support DUSP5 as a candidate biomarker and therapeutic target that warrants further mechanistic and clinical validation.Copyright © 2026 Liu, Li, Liao, Li, Huang and Wang.
Prostate cancer (PCa) is one of the leading causes of cancer-related mortality in men, with castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) posing significant therapeutic challenges due to drug resistance mediated by the androgen receptor (AR) signaling pathway. Indolethylamine-N-methyltransferase (INMT), a tumor-suppressive enzyme downregulated in CRPC, regulates pathways associated with apoptosis and proliferation. Leveraging a structure-based drug design strategy, this study aimed to identify novel INMT agonists for CRPC therapy. Virtual screening of the ChemDiv compound library (guided by the INMT crystal structure, PDB ID: 2A14), combined with molecular docking, MM/GBSA binding energy calculations, and molecular dynamics simulations, identified five candidate compounds. Among these, DMPP-4M stably bound to an allosteric site adjacent to the catalytic domain of INMT via hydrogen bonds, π-cation interactions, and hydrophobic forces. In vitro experiments demonstrated that DMPP-4M dose-dependently upregulated INMT expression, inhibited proliferation, and induced apoptosis in CRPC cell models (PC-3, 22RV1). The mechanism involved activation of the pro-apoptotic protein BAX, suppression of the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2, and upregulation of cleaved caspase-3 and PARP. Further mechanistic studies revealed that DMPP-4M-mediated INMT activation suppressed the activity of the TGF-β/Smad and Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathways. These findings suggest that DMPP-4M represents a promising INMT-targeted therapeutic agent, offering an AR-independent strategy for CRPC treatment. Subsequent structural optimization and in vivo experimental validation are required to advance its clinical translation potential.Copyright © 2026 Zheng, Cao, Kong, Xin, Bi and Wang.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42556656 is a review article
Basal cell carcinoma (BCC), the most common skin cancer, is driven by UV-induced DNA damage and shaped by immune surveillance. Although GWAS has identified over 140 risk loci, their cell-type-specific effects remain obscured by tissue-level averaging.We integrated BCC GWAS summary statistics from a UK-based cohort (17,416 cases, 375,455 controls) with single-cell expression quantitative trait locus (sc-eQTL) data from 12 immune cell types in the OneK1K resource. Using the OTTERS framework combined with ACAT-O, we performed single-cell transcriptome-wide association analysis (scTWAS); bulk TWAS using GTEx whole blood served as a conventional tissue-averaged benchmark for comparison, rather than a definitive gold standard. Functional enrichment was conducted via Gene Ontology (GO).Bulk TWAS using GTEx whole blood identified 35 BCC-associated genes (FDR < 0.05), including MC1R and CASP8. In contrast, single-cell transcriptome-wide association study (scTWAS) across 12 OneK1K cell types revealed 207 non-redundant susceptibility genes, predominantly in CD4ET, MONOC, and BIN. Functional enrichment uncovered cell-type-specific programs: MHC class II antigen presentation (CD4ET), PRR-mediated innate immunity (MONOC), and pro-inflammatory secretion (BIN)-all absent in bulk results.Our exploratory scTWAS using healthy donor PBMC-derived eQTLs uncovered cell-type-specific BCC associations missed by bulk analyses, providing hypothesis-generating insights into immune-related genetic effects in BCC. This underscores how single-cell resolution can overcome signal dilution from cellular heterogeneity, though validation in tumor-derived immune populations is warranted.Copyright: © 2026 Du et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
We present the case of a 40-day-old female infant with acute febrile illness, cutaneous lesions, severe respiratory distress, and shock refractory to antibiotic therapy. Skin biopsy revealed findings consistent with acute febrile neutrophilic dermatosis (Sweet syndrome). After excluding infectious, hematological, and hemophagocytic etiologies, an autoinflammatory syndrome was suspected, and treatment with anakinra and glucocorticoids was initiated, resulting in initial clinical improvement. However, after one year of treatment and dose tapering, the patient experienced relapses. Tocilizumab was then started, leading to a sustained clinical response to date.Copyright © 2026 Sociedad Española de Reumatología (SER), Colegio Mexicano de Reumatología (CMR) and Elsevier España, S.L.U. All rights reserved.
This study aimed to investigate whether Huangqi Chongteng Yin(HQCTY) alleviates oxygen-glucose deprivation/reoxygenation(OGD/R)-induced injury and mitochondrial dysfunction in mouse hippocampal HT22 neurons by modulating the receptor-interacting protein kinase 1(RIPK1)/receptor-interacting protein kinase 3(RIPK3)/mixed lineage kinase domain-like protein(MLKL)-mediated necroptosis signaling pathway. After preparing HQCTY-containing serum and verifying its safety and efficacy, HT22 cells were divided into the control group, OGD/R group, HQCTY-containing serum low-, medium-, and high-dose groups(5%, 10%, and 20%), and an edaravone(Eda) group. Cell viability and membrane damage were assessed using the cell counting kit-8(CCK-8) assay and lactate dehydrogenase(LDH) release assays, respectively, while nuclear morphology was evaluated by DAPI staining. The expression and phosphorylation levels of RIPK1, RIPK3, and MLKL were detected by Western blot, and the expression and subcellular localization of MLKL and phosphorylated(p)-MLKL were examined by immunofluorescence assay. Mitochondrial membrane potential, energy metabolism, mitochondrial network morphology, and ultrastructural alterations were evaluated using JC-1 staining, ATP assay kit, Mito-Tracker Green staining, and transmission electron microscopy, respectively. In addition, fluorescence staining was performed to assess the morphology of translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20(TOM20) and the cytoskeleton(phalloidin staining). The levels of tumor necrosis factor-α(TNF-α), interleukin-1β(IL-1β), IL-6, and IL-18 were determined by ELISA. The results showed that, compared with the OGD/R group, HQCTY significantly increased HT22 cell viability, reduced LDH release and nuclear condensation, markedly downregulated the protein expression of p-RIPK1/RIPK1, p-RIPK3/RIPK3, and p-MLKL/MLKL, while ameliorating the abnormal localization of p-MLKL. Furthermore, HQCTY significantly improved mitochondrial membrane potential, increased ATP production, and promoted the restoration of mitochondrial network and ultrastructure. It also significantly reduced the levels of TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6, and IL-18. These findings indicate that HQCTY may directly protect neurons from OGD/R injury by inhibiting RIPK1/RIPK3/MLKL-mediated necroptosis signaling pathway and improving mitochondrial structure and energy metabolism, thereby providing new insights and intervention strategies for the application of traditional Chinese medicine formulas in neuroprotection after cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury.
Tumour necrosis factor (TNF) is a pleiotropic cytokine originally identified for its ability to kill cancer cells. However, a paradoxical tumour-promoting role for TNF emerged when early attempts to exploit its anti-tumour activity in cancer therapy produced conflicting outcomes, raising the question of whether TNF should be viewed as a therapeutic agent or a treatment target in cancer. Here, we demonstrate that expression of cFLIP, a catalytically inactive paralogue of caspase-8 (CASP8), determines the susceptibility of melanoma cells to TNF and thereby controls melanoma growth in a syngeneic, immune-competent mouse model of B16F10 cutaneous melanoma. B16F10 melanoma cells lacking cFLIP (cFlipKO/KO cells) failed to grow in wild-type mice, whereas in TNF-deficient mice, cFlipKO/KO melanoma cells formed palpable tumours and exhibited robust subcutaneous growth. These findings indicate that TNF alone is sufficient to control melanoma growth in the absence of cFLIP. Importantly, the anti-tumour activity of TNF has predominantly been investigated through targeting cellular inhibitors of apoptosis proteins (cIAPs), which promotes RIPK1 activation and TNF-induced cytotoxicity. We show that genomic ablation of cIAPs or RIPK1, in contrast to cFLIP, neither triggered TNF-induced toxicity nor affected melanoma growth in vivo. Collectively, our data underscore the central role of cFLIP in regulating melanoma responses to TNF and suggest that endogenous immune surveillance as well as immunotherapies involving TNF could strongly benefit from cFLIP targeting strategies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Licoricidin (LCD), a natural isoflavonoid compound extracted from Glycyrrhiza species, has been extensively demonstrated to possess diverse biological activities, including anti-inflammatory and potent anti-cancer effects. However, the precise mechanism underlying LCD action against hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains unclear, particularly regarding its regulation of cell death. In this study, we comprehensively explored the effects of LCD on HCC cells in vitro and investigated its role and mechanism of action in the induction of PANoptosis. Our results reveal that LCD exhibited potent anti-HCC activities by decreasing cell viability and significantly inhibiting clonogenic survival in HCC cell lines. Our results demonstrate that LCD triggered a substantial accumulation of reactive oxygen species and induced depolarization of the mitochondrial membrane, leading to profound mitochondrial dysfunction. We further confirmed that LCD activated a comprehensive PANoptosis program by synchronously upregulating the expression of apoptotic proteins (Bax, c-CASP3, and c-PARP1), pyroptotic proteins (c-CASP 1 and c-GSDMD), and the phosphorylation of necroptotic executioners (p-MLKL and p-RIPK1). Treatment with the ROS inhibitor (NAC), apoptosis inhibitor (ZVAD), or necroptosis inhibitor (Nec-1) significantly reduced the expression of PANoptosis-related proteins in LCD-treated cells. Furthermore, molecular docking simulations and cellular thermal shift assay (CETSA) assay confirmed the direct and stable binding of LCD to PANoptosis-related proteins. In summary, we show for the first time that LCD exerts favorable anti-HCC activities via the induction of PANoptosis through a ROS-dependent mechanism and potntial direct modulation of core executive proteins. This multi-target action suggests that LCD could be a novel candidate for the management of hepatocellular carcinoma.© The author(s).
Recurrence and metastasis are the leading causes of mortality in renal cell carcinoma (RCC), and its intrinsic drug resistance further limits effective therapeutic options. Synergistic activation of multiple regulated cell death pathways has recently emerged as a novel approach to overcome therapeutic resistance. Here, we developed two mitochondria-targeted iridium(III) photosensitizers, Ir-MT1 and Ir-MT2, for synergistic photoimmunotherapy of RCC. Upon white-light irradiation, Ir-MT1/2 induced severe mitochondrial damage and dysfunction, leading to massive release of mitochondrial contents. Mitochondrial DNA leakage activated the cGAS-stimulator of interferon genes pathway and caspase-1-mediated pyroptosis cascade, whereas excessive Ca2+ efflux promoted RIPK1/RIPK3 phosphorylation and induced necroptosis. These death signals facilitated pore formation by gasdermin D and mixed lineage kinase domain-like protein in the plasma membrane, resulting in membrane rupture, release of damage-associated molecular patterns, and immunogenic cell death synergistically. In vivo, Ir-MT1/2 not only effectively suppressed primary tumor growth but also eliminated distant tumors through activation of anti-tumor immunity, exhibiting potent therapeutic efficacy and favorable biosafety. Overall, our work provides the evidence that a single iridium complex can simultaneously trigger pyroptosis-necroptosis synergy, overcoming intrinsic drug resistance and offering a promising strategy for multi-network systemic therapy of RCC.© 2026 The Author(s). Smart Molecules published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Dalian University of Technology.
Cell death is a key effector mechanism of the innate immune system for host defense. While it is beneficial for pathogen clearance, excess lytic cell death is linked to inflammation, pathology, and disease. Therefore, tight regulation of cell death execution is critical. PANoptosis is an innate immune, lytic, and inflammatory cell death pathway initiated by innate immune sensors and driven by caspases and RIPKs, with roles in infection, inflammatory disease, and cancer. During PANoptosis, caspases and RIPKs within PANoptosome complexes activate multiple executioner proteins, including gasdermin (GSDM) family proteins and mixed lineage kinase domain-like pseudokinase (MLKL). These executioners form membrane pores that lead to membrane lysis and the release of DAMPs and cytokines. Although multiple executioners are activated during PANoptosis, the requirement for individual executioners in driving the lytic cell death remains unclear. To address this, we performed a comprehensive genetic analysis of GSDMD, GSDME, and MLKL using single, double, and triple knockout primary macrophages across triggers known to activate distinct PANoptosomes. Deletion of individual executioners did not reduce the activation of caspases or other executioners and did not fully block PANoptosis, suggesting these executioner molecules often act in a compensatory manner to execute PANoptosis. Furthermore, combined deletion of all three executioners provided greater protection than any single or double deletion. However, residual cell death still occurred even after genetic deletion of all three executioner proteins, suggesting the involvement of additional executioners that remain to be identified. Overall, our study suggests that targeting individual executioners will not be sufficient in disease contexts where PANoptosis drives pathology, and targeting the full executioner network or upstream molecules, such as sensors or essential PANoptosome complex components, will be needed for therapeutic efficacy in infection, inflammatory disease, and cancer.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Background/Objectives: Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is an aggressive lymphoma and one of the most common hematological neoplasia. Entropy is a statistical measure of randomness that characterizes the texture of an input image and measures tissue complexity. Methods: Image processing and computer vision analysis were performed on a series of 114 diagnostic DLBCL cases and 44 reactive lymphoid tissues stained with hematoxylin and eosin (H&E). Histological entropy was measured to differentiate between reactive lymphoid tissue and DLBCL and predict clinical evolution. At protein level, immunohistochemistry analyzed Ki67, LMO2, MYC, MDM2, CDK6, E2F1, BCL2, CASP8, MYOB, TP53, cPARP, cCASP3, ISY1, TNFAIP8, CSF1R, CD163, PD-L1 and IL-10 markers. Gene expression analysis using the NanoString nCounter PanCancer Immune Profiling Panel was performed in 29 cases. Results: In comparison with reactive lymphoid tissue, DLBCL was characterized by lower entropy (7.32 ± 0.16 vs. 6.82 ± 0.44, respectively; p < 0.001). Within the DLBCL diagnostic category, higher entropy was associated with poor overall survival and death events within the first 2 years (hazard-risk = 2.4, p = 0.004) and lower entropy with a moderate and more favorable outcome (hazard-risk = 0.4, p = 0.004). High entropy was also correlated with ECOG performance status ≥ 2, lower protein expression of apoptosis markers of cPARP and cCASP3, and upregulation of specific immuno-oncology genes such as STAT3, BTK, CASP8, CD47, VCAM1, and MYD88. The prognostic value of entropy was independent of the international prognostic index (IPI), Epstein-Barr virus (EBER), and cell of origin (Hans). Conclusions: The histological evaluation of entropy is useful for the differential diagnosis of reactive lymphoid tissue and DLBCL and is a predictive factor of DLBCL prognosis.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42567783
Despite widespread statin use, atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease remains a leading cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. Monoclonal antibodies targeting circulating proprotein convertase subtilisin-kexin type 9 (PCSK9) substantially reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels and cardiovascular events. However, the requirement for self-administration every 2-4 weeks may limit adherence to treatment. Inclisiran, a first-in-class small interfering ribonucleic acid (siRNA) therapy targeting hepatic PCSK9 production, has several potential advantages over the anti-PCSK9 monoclonal antibodies, principally longer duration of action. To date, however, the efficacy and safety of inclisiran have not been proven in a cardiovascular outcomes trial.The ORION-4 study is the first large-scale clinical outcomes trial of an siRNA therapy, aiming to assess the efficacy and safety of inclisiran among participants with pre-existing atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. The primary assessment is an intention-to-treat comparison of the effect of inclisiran sodium 300 mg (equivalent to 284 mg inclisiran), given by subcutaneous injection at randomization, at approximately 3 months and then approximately every 6 months thereafter, on major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE), defined as the composite of coronary death, myocardial infarction, fatal or non-fatal ischaemic stroke, or urgent coronary revascularization. Participants will be followed until the median time since randomization is at least 5 years and at least 1700 participants have a recorded adjudicated MACE. With a planned sample size of ∼15,000 participants, ORION-4 was designed to have >99% power to detect a relative reduction in the primary outcome of about one quarter, while also providing an opportunity to assess efficacy in different subgroups as well as on secondary outcomes of interest.Between 2019 and 2023 a total of 16,124 participants were randomized in the UK and the US. The mean (SD) age was 70 (8.1) years and 30% were female. At baseline, 78% had a history of coronary heart disease, 22% of ischaemic stroke, 15% of revascularization for peripheral arterial disease, and 23% had diabetes mellitus. 85% were on statin therapy (53% high intensity statin, 29% moderate and 3% low intensity statins). Overall, baseline mean (SD) LDL-C was 96 (32) mg/dL, and was similar among participants on high- and moderate/low-intensity statin regimens (87 (27) mg/dL and 93 (26) mg/dL respectively), with higher levels in those receiving no statin therapy (133 (33) mg/dL). Follow-up will complete during 2026 and results will be available in early 2027.Inclisiran potentially offers a scalable lipid-lowering treatment, either alone or in combination with other agents. ORION-4 will evaluate the clinical efficacy of inclisiran, and provide a robust assessment of the safety of prolonged use of an siRNA therapeutic.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The study aims to assess clinical, laboratory, and instrumental outcomes depending on smoking status in patients undergoing Cardiac Rehabilitation (CR) after Acute Coronary Syndrome (ACS).The prospective cohort study involved 124 post-ACS patients (aged 28-77 years; Me = 57, IQR: 48-64). Data collection occurred at three stages: during inpatient CR, after 3-6 months, and one year post-ACS. Patients underwent clinical evaluation, smoking status assessment, laboratory tests (complete blood count, lipid profile, PCSK9 levels), and instrumental studies (echocardiography, bicycle ergometry, coronary angiography).The proportion of smokers decreased by 47.6 ± 10.8% after one year of CR. Smoking patients had significantly higher ESV values [70.0 (61.2,84.0) mL] than non-smokers [52.5 (45.3,61.3) mL] (p = .003). Patients who quit smoking showed no significant difference in ESV or ESVI compared to non-smokers at 3-6 months, suggesting stabilization of remodeling. Nonsmokers and quitters had favorable lipid dynamics: PCSK9 levels decreased after physical exertion (512.0 to 467.5 ng/mL; p = .001) and remained lower throughout the year (p = .036). At one year, total cholesterol was lower in quitters, 3.80 (3.35,4.10) mmol/L, than in smokers, 4.60 (3.73,5.68) mmol/L, p = .03; LDL-C was also lower in quitters, 2.07 (1.55,2.73) mmol/L vs. smokers, 2.71 (2.13,3.96) mmol/L, p = .02.These findings may suggest that smoking status could influence recovery patterns after ACS during СR.In this observational cohort, both smoking cessation during cardiac rehabilitation and the absence of smoking tended to be associated with more favorable echocardiographic parameters and lipid profile, including lower levels of total cholesterol, LDL-C, and PCSK9, in patients after ACS.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
This case presents that balloon passage via microwire navigation technology could be a beneficial option for patients with severe MCA stenosis, with the diameter of the proximal blood vessel in the stenotic segment is < 1.5 mm and there is antegrade blood flow.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical Case Reports published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42564055 is a review article
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42563607
Hypercholesterolemia contributes to the global burden of disease as a major risk factor for cardiovascular disease, and cholesterol-lowering therapies are key to global health. 3-Hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase (HMG-CoA reductase, EC 1.1.1.34) is the rate-limiting enzyme of cholesterol biosynthesis and an important target for drug development. Statins, the most commonly used HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, have been shown to successfully reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and minimize coronary events, but also long-term use is associated with side effects, including myopathy, hepatotoxicity, and increased risk of diabetes. Consequently, researchers are turning their attention to examining alternate HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, such as ATP-citrate lyase inhibitors (e.g., bempedoic acid), PCSK9 inhibitors, and bioactive compounds from plants and microbes. Here, we update the classical detailed method for measuring HMG-CoA reductase activity and inhibition based on recent advances in enzyme kinetics, high-throughput screening (HTS) techniques, and computational modeling. The spectrophotometric assay using NADPH oxidation at 340 nm is popular for measuring enzyme activity. Improvements in assay conditions have been made to increase accuracy and reproducibility. Furthermore, this chapter describes an IC50 four-parameter logistic model to accurately evaluate the inhibition spectrum. This procedure simplifies the pursuit of more effective cholesterol-lowering therapeutics by restructuring the screening of novel compounds with greater efficacy and safety.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42562563
Estrogen deficiency-induced osteoporosis is largely driven by excessive osteoclast formation and bone resorption, but the direct pharmacological targets of flavonoid derivatives in osteoclast differentiation remain unclear. Here, we investigated the anti-osteoclastogenic activity and molecular mechanism of 2'-O-Galloylhyperin (2'-O-GH), a structurally defined flavonoid derivative. The effects of 2'-O-GH on RANKL-induced osteoclastogenesis were evaluated in bone marrow-derived macrophages and RAW264.7 cells using TRAP staining, qPCR, western blotting, F-actin staining, immunofluorescence, and bone resorption assays. Target identification was performed using a biotinylated 2'-O-GH probe coupled with pull-down and LC-MS/MS analysis, followed by molecular docking and microscale thermophoresis. In vivo efficacy was assessed in an ovariectomy-induced osteoporosis mouse model. 2'-O-GH inhibited RANKL-induced formation of TRAP-positive multinucleated osteoclasts without evident cytotoxicity at effective concentrations. It downregulated osteoclast-related markers, including NFATc1, c-FOS, SRC, ACP5, ATP6V0D2, and CTSK, and impaired F-actin ring formation and bone resorption. Mechanistically, 2'-O-GH restrained RANKL-induced NF-κB p65 nuclear translocation. Chemical proteomics identified MAP3K11/MLK3 as a candidate target, and molecular docking and microscale thermophoresis supported its direct interaction with 2'-O-GH. 2'-O-GH further suppressed RANKL-induced phosphorylation of MLK3 and IKKα/β, whereas MLK3 overexpression partially rescued NF-κB activation and osteoclast differentiation. In ovariectomized mice, 2'-O-GH attenuated bone loss without obvious effects on body or uterine weight. These findings identify MLK3 as a pharmacological target of 2'-O-GH and suggest that 2'-O-GH suppresses osteoclastogenesis through the MLK3/IKK/NF-κB axis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Soluble ligand-neutralizing antibodies are constrained by antigen excess and immune complex-associated toxicity. Here, we describe αLR-Ab, a humanized antibody that protects the low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) from proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) by targeting its EGF-A domain. Rather than transiently intercepting extracellular ligands, αLR-Ab sterically shields LDLR and redirects receptor trafficking through its native recycling pathway, thereby preventing PCSK9-mediated lysosomal degradation. This recycling-enabled receptor shielding supports durable LDL-C lowering, substantial dose sparing, and an eightfold increase in tolerance to PCSK9 excess in vitro. In humanized hypercholesterolemic mice, a single dose of αLR-Ab sustained LDL-C suppression for up to 24 days without inducing circulating immune complexes, perturbing free PCSK9 homeostasis, or promoting immune complex deposition in the renal cortex. Receptor shielding coupled with endogenous recycling, distinct from ligand neutralization or receptor degradation, defines a previously unexplored therapeutic modality for preserving homeostasis in chronic disease.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Poroid hidradenocarcinoma is a rare malignant sweat gland neoplasm. Although primary nodal hidradenoma has been reported, primary nodal poroid hidradenocarcinoma has not been described. We report a case of a 56-year-old man presenting with a nontender 5.5 cm mass within the axillary lymph node, and no identifiable primary cutaneous lesion on clinical examination or imaging. Histopathologic examination of the axillary lymph node dissection revealed involvement of 1 of 42 lymph nodes by a multinodular, solid and cystic neoplasm composed of poroid and cuticular cells with ductal differentiation, consistent with a background poroid hidradenoma. There was an abrupt transition to malignant areas with marked cytologic atypia, nuclear pleomorphism, increased mitotic activity, elevated Ki-67 proliferation index and necrosis, supporting the diagnosis of poroid hidradenocarcinoma. Tumor cells were positive for CK5 and CK7. Molecular analysis identified a YAP1::NUTM1 fusion and oncogenic mutations in EGFR exon 20 and FBXW7. At 30 months of follow-up after axillary lymph node dissection and chemoradiation, there was no evidence of disease progression. This case represents the first report of primary nodal poroid hidradenocarcinoma, expanding its clinicopathologic spectrum. Awareness of this entity is important to avoid misdiagnosis as metastatic carcinoma and to prevent potential overtreatment.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cutaneous Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Conjunctival melanoma (CoM) is an ultra-rare ocular melanoma that originates from transformed melanocytes of the conjunctiva. CoM shares a common embryonic cell of origin as cutaneous melanoma and manifests as highly aggressive malignancy. Despite cellular similarity of conjunctival and cutaneous melanoma, the pathogenesis, genetic landscape, response to treatment, and prognosis of these malignancies differ significantly. Immune checkpoint therapy has shown promise in individual CoM cases, but therapeutic options for metastatic CoM remain limited. To evaluate efficacy of the latest novel cancer therapies in metastatic CoM, we performed an integrated functional ex vivo and molecular analysis in an immune checkpoint therapy resistant metastatic CoM case. PARP, MEK and RAS(ON) inhibitors along select standard chemotherapies including cisplatin and docetaxel displayed marked ex vivo efficacy in NRAS, FBXW7, TERT and TP53 mutated genetic background. Following molecular tumor board evaluation, the patient received combinatorial chemotherapy as part of standard therapy resulting in a clinical partial response. Upon progression, MEK inhibitor treatment was selected for treatment, resulting in sustained clinical benefit correlating with the ex vivo observed sensitivity. To provide further insights on efficacy of latest experimental cancer therapies including TEAD, pan-RAS/RAF and the RAS(ON) inhibitors in NRAS mutant CoM, a spontaneously immortal cell line established from the patient's tumor was used for comparative high-throughput screening against two NRAS mutant cutaneous melanomas. Results of our study demonstrate feasibility of functional ex vivo drug testing in conjunctival melanoma and warrant further studies of targeted therapies including MEK and RAS inhibitors in larger cohorts of NRAS mutant conjunctival melanomas.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
To determine the molecular genetic characteristics of the epithelial neoplasia of extrahepatic bile ducts (EHD) depending on the degree of epithelial dysplasia in order to identify mutations that facilitate their differential diagnosis.The study included 44 EHD biopsies containing epithelial neoplasms and cholangiocarcinoma. All samples underwent massive parallel sequencing of DNA isolated from 10-μm-thick histological sections. Mutations of categories I-III of clinical significance were considered. Statistical analysis of the obtained data utilized a two-tailed Pearson χ2 test with Holm's correction for multiple comparisons (p<0.045).The most frequent mutations in epithelial neoplasia of the EHD were identified: MYC, KRAS, PIK3CA, CDKN2A, ERBB2, KIT 6, TP53 6, FBXW7, POLE and TERT. The highest proportion of mutations was in biliary intraepithelial neoplasia and cholangiocarcinoma. Among epithelial neoplasia and cholangiocarcinoma, mutations in KRAS, POLE and TERT differed significantly. KRAS (p<0.045) - BilIN LG and BilIN HG, IPNB HG and cholangiocarcinoma; POLE (p<0.045) - BilIN LG and cholangiocarcinoma; TERT (p<0.045) - BilIN LG and cholangiocarcinoma. Specificity and sensitivity indicators for KRAS were 28 and 50%; POLE - 35 and 100%; TERT - 100 and 100%.Mutations have been identified that should be considered in the differential diagnosis of the degree of epithelial dysplasia and the types of epithelial neoplasia of the extrahepatic bile ducts.
Hypercholesterolemia is a major risk factor for cardiovascular disease, highlighting the urgent need for cholesterol-lowering therapies with novel mechanisms of action. Therefore, this study aims to employ high-throughput screening to characterize the structural features, target selectivity, and cholesterol-lowering potential of PG2, a structurally novel glycosylated piericidin isolated from deep-sea-derived actinomycetes. This structural motif distinguishes PG2 from other known piericidin analogues and confers its target selectivity. In vitro and in vivo studies demonstrated that PG2 significantly outperformed atorvastatin. Mechanistically, PG2 served as a direct and selective agonist of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor δ (PPARδ). Activated PPARδ bound the promoter region of F-box and WD repeat domain-containing 7 (FBXW7), inducing its transcription. Subsequently, FBXW7 mediated the ubiquitin-dependent degradation of SREBP1, a key transcription regulator of cholesterol biosynthesis. FBXW7 silencing markedly reduced the protective effects of PPARδ activation against hypercholesterolemia. Collectively, these findings highlight a novel PPARδ-FBXW7-SREBP1 regulatory axis and support the potential of the marine-derived natural product PG2 as a therapeutic candidate for hypercholesterolemia.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Protein tyrosine phosphatase non-receptor type 14 (PTPN14) exhibits dual roles in cancer, acting as either a tumor suppressor or oncogene depending on context, while its role in colon adenocarcinoma (COAD) and liver hepatocellular carcinoma (LIHC) remains unclear. Since COAD and LIHC showed high incidence and mortality rates, we investigated PTPN14's prognostic and mechanistic significance in COAD and LIHC. Pan-cancer analysis were performed based on TCGA and GEO database. Clinical validation used IHC staining of 50 COAD and 40 LIHC specimens. In vitro functional assays and in vivo xenograft models assessed PTPN14's impact on proliferation, migration, invasion and tumorigenicity. Mechanistic studies included Co-IP, immunofluorescence, ubiquitination assay and Western blot to evaluate PTPN14-Notch1 interaction and pathway regulation. As a result, pan-cancer analysis identified PTPN14 as prognostic biomarker in COAD and LIHC. Clinical validation confirmed PTPN14 as a prognostic biomarker in COAD and LIHC and associated with survival and TNM stage progression. In vitro experiments revealed knockdown of PTPN14 suppressed the proliferation, migration and invasion of COAD and LIHC cell lines. PTPN14 stabilized Notch1 by competitively binding to prevent FBXW7-mediated ubiquitination, and increasing the expression of Notch1 intracellular domain (Notch1 ICD) and downstream targets (DLL1 and HES1). At last, in vivo experiments revealed knockdown of PTPN14 inhibited xenograft tumor formation in COAD and LIHC cell lines. In conclusion, PTPN14 drives COAD and LIHC progression via Notch signaling stabilization, serving as a prognostic biomarker and potential therapeutic target for COAD and LIHC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Preterm brain injury (PBI) can lead to severe neurodevelopmental impairment. F-box and WD repeat domain-containing 7 (FBXW7) is a key regulator of neural development. This study evaluated the effect of FBXW7 on nerve regeneration after PBI.A mouse model of PBI and an in vitro model of oxygen-glucose deprivation/reperfusion (OGD/R) in neural stem cells (NSCs) were established. Cognitive and motor functions were assessed using Morris water maze, wire hanging, and cylinder tests. Histopathological changes and apoptosis were evaluated by hematoxylin and eosin and TdT-mediated dUTP Nick-End Labeling, and immunohistochemical staining for myelin basic protein and microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2). Neuroregeneration was analyzed via immunofluorescence (IF) staining for bromodeoxyuridine, doublecortin, and MAP2. FBXW7 and Notch receptor 1 (Notch1) expressions were detected by real-time quantitative PCR and Western blot. The viability, apoptosis and differentiation of NSCs were measured by cell counting kit-8, flow cytometry, and IF/Western blot. Protein interaction, stability, and ubiquitination were examined by co-immunoprecipitation and cycloheximide chase assays.FBXW7 expression was decreased in PBI mice and OGD/R-treated NSCs. Overexpression of FBXW7 significantly alleviated the pathological damage and behavioral impairments after PBI, and also enhanced the nerve regeneration process. Moreover, FBXW7 not only enhanced NSCs survival and suppressed apoptosis following OGD/R, but also actively drove their differentiation toward a neuronal lineage. Mechanistically, FBXW7 promoted the ubiquitination and degradation of Notch1. FBXW7 induced NSCs differentiation following OGD/R and mediated neuroprotection to protect PBI by inhibiting Notch1 signaling.By enhancing neuroregeneration via degradation of Notch1, FBXW7 appears to play a protective role in PBI, which suggests therapeutic targets for PBI treatment that merit further exploration.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) has high incidence and mortality with limited diagnostic and prognostic methods. This study explored the diagnostic and prognostic significance of the DARS-AS1 in CRC, and its regulatory mechanism via miR-188-5p.The clinical significance of serum DARS-AS1 was analyzed using receiver operator characteristic (ROC) curves, Cox regression, the Kaplan-Meier method, and chi-square tests. DARS-AS1 silencing effects on CRC cell behavior were analyzed via CCK-8/Transwell assays. This study identified and validated miR-188-5p target genes using online databases and dual-luciferase reporter assays.Serum DARS-AS1 was elevated in CRC patients (P < 0.001), and distinguished them with an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.856. High DARS-AS1 was associated with adverse clinicopathological features (P < 0.05), shorter low disease-free survival (P = 0.008), and worse prognosis [hazard ratio (HR) = 2.400, P = 0.011]. DARS-AS1 was up-regulated in CRC cells (P < 0.001), and silencing it suppressed malignant behavior (P < 0.05). Serum miR-188-5p was down-regulated in CRC patients (P < 0.001), and had a target relationship with DARS-AS1 (r = - 0.733, P < 0.001). miR-188-5p target genes-including PTEN, ESR1, and FBXW7-were enriched in CRC-related pathways; FBXW7 was experimentally validated as a direct target (P < 0.05).This study identifies serum DARS-AS1 as a non-invasive diagnostic and prognostic biomarker for CRC with superior performance to conventional markers, and elucidates the DARS-AS1/miR-188-5p/FBXW7 axis as a novel mechanistic framework for CRC progression, providing both a clinical tool for risk stratification and targets for molecular therapy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Student engagement in physical education (PE) is an important indicator of meaningful participation and learning in higher education. In the Philippines, where PE forms part of holistic student development, there is a need to understand how motivational constructs operate within specific activity contexts. This study examined the association between individual interest and study engagement among Filipino college students enrolled in an integrated PE context involving individual and dual sports.A quantitative cross-sectional design was used with 327 undergraduate students enrolled in PATH-Fit 4 at a state university in the Philippines. Drawing on the tripartite model of individual interest, it was modeled as a reflective-reflective higher-order construct composed of positive affect and willingness to reengage (PAWR), stored utility value (SUV), and stored attainment value and knowledge-seeking intentions (SAVKSI). Data were analyzed using partial least squares structural equation modeling.The higher-order model showed that individual interest was positively and significantly associated with study engagement, although the effect size and explanatory power were small. The dimensional model explained a greater proportion of variance than the higher-order model. Among the three factors, only PAWR demonstrated a significant positive association with study engagement, while SUV and SAVKSI were not significant. These findings indicate that the dimensions of individual interest were not equally associated with engagement in this context.The results suggest that individual interest is a coherent multidimensional construct, but its engagement relevance depends on the specific factors examined. In PE involving individual and dual sports, affective attraction and willingness to reengage appear to be more immediately associated with students' engagement than perceived usefulness or knowledge-seeking orientation. The findings provide preliminary support for a context-sensitive interpretation of the tripartite model and highlight the importance of designing sport-based PE experiences that foreground enjoyment, emotional safety, manageable challenge, and opportunities for repeated participation.© 2026 Lobo.
Background: Coarctation of the aorta (CoA) is a congenital narrowing of the aortic isthmus near the ductus arteriosus or ligamentum arteriosum. Despite successful anatomical repair, patients remain at risk of recoarctation, arterial hypertension, and diffuse aortopathy, suggesting intrinsic vessel-wall abnormalities beyond localized obstruction. The developmental and molecular basis of these persistent vascular features remains incompletely understood. Methods: Human aortic tissue samples were obtained from 8 male infants with CoA and 6 age- and sex-matched controls aged <1 year. Total RNA was isolated, and gene expression profiling was performed using whole human genome oligo microarrays (Agilent). Differentially expressed transcripts were subjected to pathway, network, and upstream regulator analyses using Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA, Qiagen). Selected candidate genes were evaluated by RT-qPCR in independent verification sets. Results: Transcriptomic profiling identified 402 analysis-ready transcripts distinguishing CoA from control tissue. Exploratory pathway analyses suggested extracellular matrix remodeling characterized by collagen turnover, integrin-mediated cell-matrix interactions, wound-healing signaling, and fibrosis-associated programs. In addition, enrichment analyses identified developmental annotations involving retinoic acid (RA)/RAR/RXR signaling, HOX-associated developmental programs, and a shared HOX/MEIS-associated signature. Network and upstream regulator analyses further suggested associations with cytoskeletal, muscle-associated, and epigenetic regulatory pathways, including KAT6A, KAT6B, retinoic acid/RAR/RXR signaling, DNMT3B, KMT2A, and ARID1A. RT-qPCR independently confirmed increased expression of EDN1, AGTR2, IRS4, and TFAP2B.Conclusions: Infantile CoA tissue exhibited molecular signatures consistent with vessel-wall remodeling accompanied by developmental, vascular signaling, and smooth muscle/cytoskeletal regulatory programs. These findings support the hypothesis that developmental patterning signals and postnatal extracellular matrix remodeling coexist within CoA tissue and may contribute to persistent vascular abnormalities beyond anatomical repair. Given the exploratory nature of the study, these observations should be considered hypothesis-generating and require validation in independent cohorts.
The pronounced heterogeneity of bladder cancer (BLCA) drives divergent patient outcomes and therapy responses. Mitophagy, a pivotal cellular quality-control and metabolic mechanism, modulates the dynamics of the tumor microenvironment (TME). Its prognostic significance and potential for guiding precision oncology, however, remain incompletely defined. This investigation aimed to evaluate the translational utility of mitophagy-associated signatures for the risk stratification of BLCA, profiling of TME, and prediction of therapeutic response.Using The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA)-BLCA cohort, a prognostic signature was established via least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) and multivariable Cox regression analyses. The robustness of the signature was externally validated using two independent cohorts from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GSE32894, n=224; GSE31684, n=93). A nomogram was established to estimate survival probability. A multi-faceted analysis of TME features was conducted to compare the subgroups, integrating three algorithms: Cell-Type Identification by Estimating Relative Subsets of RNA Transcripts (CIBERSORT), Tumor Immune Dysfunction and Exclusion (TIDE), and Estimation of STromal and Immune cells in MAlignant Tumor tissues using Expression data (ESTIMATE). Drug sensitivity and molecular alteration profiles were interrogated to identify potential personalized therapeutic avenues.A five-core-gene signature (NTN4, AKR1B1, FBXW7, MYH10, and IGF2BP3) was established. Across all cohorts, high-risk individuals exhibited notably shorter overall survival (OS) (TCGA-BLCA: P<0.001; GSE32894: P=0.003; GSE31684: P=0.03). The areas under the curves (AUCs) for 1-, 3-, and 5-year survival were 0.645-0.654 (TCGA-BLCA), 0.625-0.785 (GSE32894), and 0.567-0.651 (GSE31684). The TME analysis suggested that high-risk tumors were associated with elevated stromal scores, enrichment of M2 macrophages, and a predicted T-cell exclusion phenotype. Conversely, low-risk individuals exhibited an 'immune-inflamed' profile, marked by elevated microsatellite instability (MSI) and infiltration of CD8+ T cells. The profiling of drug sensitivity indicated that the low-risk subgroup might be more susceptible to cisplatin, whereas high-risk cases showed potential responsiveness to epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors.This research developed a mitophagy-derived signature that predicts survival and is associated with a potential 'stromal barrier and immune-excluded' phenotype underlying therapy resistance in high-risk BLCA. The model offers a stratification framework for therapeutic decisions. Standard chemotherapy or immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) may lead to benefits in the low-risk subgroup, whereas high-risk individuals likely require novel combinatorial strategies targeting microenvironmental remodeling. However, as these results represent predictive associations derived from public datasets, further experimental validation is warranted to confirm the underlying biological mechanisms.© AME Publishing Company.
Lung cancer (LC) is a leading cause of cancer-related death. Microwave ablation (MWA) is a promising local therapy, but its impact on systemic immunity remains unclear.In this exploratory pilot study, paired peripheral blood samples from two LC patients pre- and post-MWA were analyzed by single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq). Cell composition, functional states, and intercellular communication were investigated. The expression levels of cytotoxic factors including GZMB, TNF-α, and IFN-γ in CD8+ T cells derived from PBMCs were determined via RT-qPCR and ELISA assays.scRNA-seq identified 9 immune cell types. Post-MWA, monocytes and NKT cells increased. Functional changes included enhanced T cell cytotoxicity, activated pro-inflammatory monocytes, and anti-tumor neutrophil differentiation. Cell communication analysis highlighted enriched LGALS9-CD45 and RETN-CAP1 interactions between T cells and monocytes/neutrophils. In vitro cellular assays revealed that the expression of cytotoxic factors (GZMB, TNF-α, and IFN-γ) in CD8+ T cells was significantly upregulated following MWA treatment.This pilot study provides preliminary single-cell evidence suggesting how MWA remodels the immune landscape in LC, however, these findings require further validation in larger cohorts.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
The tumor microenvironment, particularly the tumor stroma, plays a critical role in tumor progression, immune evasion, and therapeutic resistance. However, its interaction with the immune landscape in rectal cancer (RC) remains incompletely understood. This study aimed to comprehensively characterize the stromal-immune ecosystem associated with the tumor stroma ratio (TSR) in RC and to evaluate its clinical and therapeutic relevance.We analyzed a multicenter cohort of 498 patients with treatment-naïve RC in whom TSR was assessed on H&E-stained sections. Integrative multi-omics analyses were performed, including bulk RNA sequencing (n=118) and single-cell RNA/T-cell receptor (TCR) sequencing (n=10). Key findings were validated by immunohistochemistry (n=114) and multiplex immunofluorescence (n=20). Survival analyses and statistical comparisons were conducted to evaluate clinical associations and treatment responses.High TSR was an independent predictor of unfavorable disease-free survival and cancer-specific survival and was associated with aggressive clinicopathological features. Single-cell analyses revealed that TSR-high tumors exhibited a profoundly immunosuppressive microenvironment, characterized by clonally expanded terminally exhausted CD8+ T cells (CD8+ Tex-CXCL13) and activated CD4+ regulatory T cells (CD4+ Treg-TNFRSF4). Two LRRC15+ cancer-associated fibroblast (CAF) subsets (mCAF-CTHRC1 and mCAF-FAP) were enriched in TSR-high tumors. Among them, mCAF-CTHRC1 was associated with increased Treg abundance and activation features, with predicted interactions with CD4+ Treg-TNFRSF4 cells through the LGALS9-CD44 signaling axis. In addition, SPP1-expressing monocytes (Mon-SPP1) and malignant epithelial cells were prominent in TSR-high tumors and showed a predicted SPP1-CD44 interaction with T-cell subsets, suggesting potential involvement in immunosuppressive stromal-immune interactions. In patients receiving neoadjuvant therapy, pretreatment TSR-low tumors showed improved pathological response and survival outcomes compared with TSR-high tumors. In the neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy plus immunotherapy cohort, TSR-low tumors were associated with a significantly higher major pathological response rate, whereas pathological complete response showed a non-significant trend in the same direction.High TSR identifies a clinically aggressive subtype of RC characterized by a profoundly immunosuppressive stromal-immune ecosystem enriched for exhausted T cells, immunosuppressive CAF programs, and SPP1-associated stromal-myeloid interactions. These findings highlight LGALS9-, LRRC15-, and SPP1-related stromal-immune pathways as candidate stromal-immune therapeutic vulnerabilities that warrant further mechanistic and preclinical validation.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Diabetic kidney disease (DKD) is a major microvascular complication of diabetes. The glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonist (GLP-1RA) liraglutide exerts renoprotective effects beyond glucose control; however, the underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood. The protective effects and mechanisms of liraglutide were investigated using in vitro (HK-2 cells under glucolipotoxic conditions) and in vivo (DKD rat) models. Key molecular and functional assessments included the evaluation of oxidative stress, apoptosis, mitochondrial function (dynamics (MFN1, MFN2, FIS1, and DRP1), mitophagy (PINK1, PARKIN, LC3II/I, and P62), and ultrastructure), and histone acetylation (H3K9/14/18/27ac). The critical role of the NQO1/SIRT3 pathway was validated using pharmacological inhibition and genetic silencing (shRNA/AAV). Both in vitro and in vivo, a multifaceted injury phenotype, including oxidative stress, apoptosis, mitochondrial dysfunction, and histone hyperacetylation, was induced, accompanied by downregulation of the NQO1/SIRT3 pathway. Disruption of this pathway further exacerbated these injuries. Conversely, liraglutide treatment effectively counteracted this phenotype, improving metabolic parameters (blood glucose, blood insulin, and blood lipids), renal function (blood urea nitrogen, serum creatinine, and urine albumin-to-creatinine ratio) and histopathology. Liraglutide attenuated oxidative stress and apoptosis, restored mitochondrial function and mitophagy, and reduced histone hyperacetylation. These protective effects were consistently associated with the restoration of NQO1/SIRT3 expression. Genetic or pharmacological disruption of the NQO1/SIRT3 axis significantly attenuated the efficacy of liraglutide, and combined inhibition completely abolished its effects. Our findings demonstrate that liraglutide attenuates DKD by activating the NQO1/SIRT3 pathway, which coordinates the enhancement of mitochondrial function and the restoration of epigenetic homeostasis. This study revealed that the NQO1/SIRT3 pathway is a critical mechanistic mediator of the renoprotective effect of liraglutide.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
We aimed to investigate whether LGALS9 contributes to the effects of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) in the treatment of ischemic stroke (IS) in rats.The model of cerebral ischemia in rats was established via middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). After being injected with LGALS9 siRNA prior to MCAO surgery and undergoing rTMS intervention postoperatively, the rats were evaluated for neurological function using the modified neurological severity score (mNSS) and for behavioral function through the foot-fault test and Rotarod test. Brain tissues were collected, and pathological changes were observed. Levels of IL-1β, IL-6, and IL-18 were assessed using ELISA. Immunohistochemistry was employed to detect CD86 expression, while RT-qPCR and Western blot were used to detect LGALS9 expression.MCAO rats showed higher mNSS scores, more foot-fault errors, shorter Rotarod duration, elevated IL-6, IL-18, and IL-1β levels, decreased LGALS9 expression, increased CD86 expression, severe brain damage with increased apoptotic neurons, and elevated neuropathological injury scores. rTMS intervention improved the neurological function of MCAO rats and alleviated the inflammatory response in brain tissues, and LGALS9 enhanced the improvement effects induced by the rTMS intervention.rTMS can improve neurological function, reduce inflammatory responses, and protect brain tissue in rats with IS, effects for which LGALS9 is required to achieve the full benefit. The molecular mechanisms of the rTMS‑LGALS9 pathway remain unclear, as its downstream signaling and effects on neurological function and inflammation are not fully elucidated. Moreover, findings from animal models require further validation for human disease relevance and clinical translation.
Introduction Galectin-9, a β-galactoside-binding protein, is elevated in various kidney diseases. While exogenous galectin-9 attenuates kidney injury in experimental models, it remains unclear whether endogenous plasma galectin-9 reflects renal histopathology and independently predicts long-term adverse outcomes in chronic kidney disease (CKD). Methods Plasma galectin-9 levels were prospectively measured in 366 participants from the Taipei Renal Transcriptomics and Outcomes Investigation (TRTOI) cohort. Renal histopathology and chronicity were assessed using a modified Mayo Clinic Chronicity Score (MCCS). Major adverse renal events (MAREs) were defined as ≥40% decline in eGFR, kidney failure, or death. Findings were validated in 549 participants from the Boston Kidney Biopsy Cohort (BKBC). In vitro, mouse mesangial cells (SV40-MES-13) were used to evaluate galectin-9 effects on TGF-β-induced mesangial activation. Results Transcriptomic analysis showed upregulation of LGALS9 (encoding galectin-9) in fibrotic kidneys. Plasma galectin-9 positively correlated with urine protein-to-creatinine ratio and MCCS, and inversely with eGFR. Elevated galectin-9 was independently associated with mesangial expansion. In vitro, exogenous galectin-9 attenuated TGF-β-induced mesangial cell activation, proliferation, and profibrotic responses; these effects were reversed by lactose, a competitive inhibitor of the carbohydrate recognition domains of galectin-9. In the TRTOI cohort, participants in the highest galectin-9 tertile had a significantly increased risk of MAREs, independent of confounders. Validation in the BKBC cohort confirmed that higher galectin-9 levels were independently associated with increased all-cause mortality. Conclusion Elevated plasma galectin-9 is associated with mesangial expansion and predicts a higher risk of MAREs in patients with CKD.S. Karger AG, Basel.
Regulatory T cells (Tregs) may influence prognosis in leukemia. This study aimed to explore the effects and mechanisms of Treg subclusters on the prognosis in B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) using single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-Seq).scRNA-seq was performed on sorted T cells from adults with newly diagnosed (Dix) B-ALL and healthy donors (HD) to establish the training cohort. Treg phenotypes, functions, and prognostic relevance were evaluated. A scRNA-seq dataset from the GEO database, including Dix and relapsed B-ALL, served as the validation cohort. Key findings were confirmed by flow cytometry. Transcription factor and cell-cell interaction analyses were conducted to clarify the mechanisms linking Treg subsets to prognosis.Tregs were divided into CCR7high and CCR7low subclusters. The proportion of CCR7low Tregs was higher in B-ALL than in HD and in Rel than in Dix. Patients with higher CCR7low Treg signature scores had a poorer prognosis. Compared with CCR7high Tregs, CCR7low Tregs exhibited enhanced activation, proliferation, and immunosuppression. Trajectory analysis suggested differentiation from CCR7high to CCR7low Tregs. IKZF2 and JUNB showed consistently increased activity and expression in CCR7low Tregs across cohorts. CCR7low Tregs showed increased interactions with terminal effector and exhausted CD8+ T cells through the LGALS9-P4HB/HAVCR2/CD44 pathway.An increased proportion of CCR7low Tregs correlated with poor prognosis in B-ALL, potentially due to enhanced activation, proliferation, and immunosuppression. IKZF2 and JUNB upregulation may promote CCR7low Treg differentiation and function. Moreover, CCR7low Tregs may impair CD8+ T cell immunity through the LGALS9-P4HB/HAVCR2/CD44 signaling.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42516311 is a review article
Hyperbaric oxygen (HBO) shows neuroprotective potential in cerebral ischemia-reperfusion (CIR) injury, but its variable efficacy suggests that the underlying cellular mechanisms remain incompletely defined. We previously showed that HBO suppresses microglial NLRP3 inflammasome activation after CIR injury in a reactive oxygen species (ROS)-dependent manner; yet, how ROS couples to this effect remains unclear. Since mitochondria regulate ROS and inflammasome signaling, we investigated whether HBO modulates microglial mitochondrial dynamics in CIR injury. In adult male ICR mice (n = 71, 8-12 weeks) subjected to 60 min middle cerebral artery occlusion followed by 24 h reperfusion, HBO improved neurological function, reduced infarct area, and decreased ASC-positive microglia/macrophages. In lipopolysaccharide/nigericin-stimulated primary microglia, HBO suppressed IL-1β release, reduced mitochondrial fragmentation, preserved mitochondrial membrane potential, maintained mitofusin 2 (MFN2) protein level, and reduced DRP1 Ser616 phosphorylation without altering total DRP1 or FIS1 expression. MitoTEMPOL abolished HBO-mediated protection against mitochondrial fragmentation, MFN2 reduction, and DRP1 Ser616 phosphorylation in vitro. Edaravone, when combined with HBO, attenuated HBO-mediated neuroprotection and counteracted HBO-induced regulation of MFN2 and DRP1 Ser616 phosphorylation in vivo. These findings support ROS-dependent remodeling of microglial mitochondrial dynamics as a mechanism contributing to HBO-mediated suppression of inflammasome-associated inflammation after CIR injury.
Intermuscular bones (IBs) are ossified structures within the myoseptal connective tissues of cyprinid fishes and negatively affect eating quality and processing suitability. Although runx2b has been shown to be essential for IB formation, the molecular changes associated with runx2b-mediated IB reduction or loss remain poorly understood. In this study, runx2b-edited Culter alburnus F1 individuals were generated and classified into wild-type, heterozygous mutant, and homozygous mutant groups. Skeletal staining revealed a clear genotype-associated phenotypic gradient, with normal IBs in wild-type individuals, markedly reduced IBs in heterozygous mutants, and complete IB absence in homozygous mutants. Integrated transcriptomic and proteomic analyses were then performed using matched muscle/myoseptal tissues to characterize molecular changes associated with this phenotypic gradient. Global mRNA-protein correlations were weak and DEG-DEP overlaps were limited, suggesting that transcriptomic changes alone cannot fully explain protein-level remodeling after runx2b mutation. Functional enrichment and integrated omics analysis highlighted coordinated changes in cytoskeletal organization, extracellular matrix remodeling, cell adhesion, calcium-related signaling, muscle-associated processes, and ossification-related pathways. Representative candidate molecules, including MYH1s, CDH26, PLIN5, PAH, HBA/HBB, GPX4, KRT1, GSN, LGALS9, and ANXA3, were mainly associated with structural, metabolic, and microenvironmental remodeling rather than being interpreted as direct downstream osteogenic targets of runx2b. Overall, these findings suggest that runx2b-associated IB reduction and loss may involve coordinated remodeling of the myoseptal osteogenic microenvironment rather than disruption of a single ossification pathway. This study provides a discovery-oriented multi-omics resource and a hypothesis-generating molecular model for future functional validation of IB development in cyprinid fishes.
SMARCA4-deficient undifferentiated tumors (SMARCA4-dUT) have been included in the latest WHO classification of tumors. This study examined the cytomorphology, management, molecular features and prognosis of malignancies harboring SMARCA4 alterations.Biopsied cytologic slides were reviewed. Next-generation sequencing (NGS) and clinical data were analyzed.Thirty-four cases with SMARCA4 alterations were identified, including 13 primary and 21 metastatic tumors, sampled primarily from lung (35%), lymph nodes (26%) and liver (15%). Tumor origins were predominantly the lung (61%) and gallbladder (9%). The most common tumor type was adenocarcinoma (70%). Predominant architectures included nested, single-cell, tubular/acinar, and 3D clusters. Cells were most commonly round and columnar, with medium cytoplasm mostly showing vacuoles and granular features. Nuclear grade 2-3 was seen in 93% of cases, with prominent nucleoli and coarse chromatin. SMARCA4 alteration included mutations (32) and loss (2). These tumors are characterized by a high co-mutation burden, including TP53 (62%), KRAS (35%), and STK11 (15%). Prognosis is further modulated by allelic status (biallelic vs. monoallelic vs. subclonal), and mutations in DDR pathway (24%). Most tumors presented as stage IV. 26% received surgical resection. Overall, 74% underwent chemotherapy and 29% radiotherapy. Mean follow-up was 17 months, with 2-year OS of 49.1%. Twenty-three (68%) patients were current or former smokers.SMARCA4-altered malignancies show diverse differentiation and lack consistent cytomorphologic features. Majority of cases were differentiated malignancies and only four cases (12%) were undifferentiated, suggesting SMARCA4 alterations were associated with poor prognosis but were not exclusive drivers of undifferentiated malignancy.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) and acute myeloid leukemias (AML) harboring TP53 mutations are defined by extreme genomic instability, complex karyotypes (CK), and poor prognosis. While large-scale chromosomal imbalances are common in CK-MDS/AML, the synergy between focal amplifications of signaling drivers and the disruption of transcriptional regulators remains poorly elucidated.We performed a comprehensive clinical, cytogenetic (GTG-banding, M-FISH, M-Band), and molecular (targeted FISH, NGS) analysis of seven patients with MDS and AML characterized by a recurrent and distinct genomic signature.All cases exhibited highly complex karyotypes on a TP53-mutated background. We identified high-level focal amplifications of EPOR (19p13.2) and JAK2 (9p24.1), predominantly manifesting as homogeneously staining regions (HSRs) or complex "sandwich-like" derivative chromosomes. Notably, these signaling alterations consistently co-occurred with monoallelic deletions of the TCF3 (E2A) tumor suppressor (19p13.3) and copy number gains of the ERG transcription factor (21q22). Detailed structural analysis indicates that TCF3 loss likely arises as a structural consequence of chromosome 19 rearrangements driving EPOR amplification. Based on this data, we propose a conceptual model of leukemogenesis where EPOR/JAK2 co-amplification potentially drives constitutive JAK2/STAT5 signaling, while concurrent ERG gain and TCF3 haploinsufficiency contribute to maturation delay. TP53 deficiency appears to be the primary permissive factor enabling the stabilization of these massive structural rearrangements.Our findings outline a recurrent and biologically coherent genomic pattern within the spectrum of TP53-mutated myeloid neoplasms, demonstrating significant phenotypic overlap with erythroid leukemia features in a subset of cases. Given the small cohort size, these findings are hypothesis-generating. However, this convergence of predicted JAK2/STAT5 pathway hyperactivation and transcriptional disinhibition points to a theoretical therapeutic vulnerability that warrants prospective validation in larger collaborative studies.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs) are expanding treatment options in endometrial carcinoma, but the distribution of actionable surface targets across histologic, molecular, and genomic subgroups remains incompletely defined.This single-institution retrospective tissue microarray (TMA) study included 312 endometrial carcinomas: 158 endometrioid and 154 serous tumors. Trophoblast cell-surface antigen 2 (TROP2) was quantified by histochemical score (H-score); human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) was assessed using endometrial carcinoma-specific and gastric/DESTINY-PanTumor02 criteria; and folate receptor alpha (FRα) positivity was defined as ≥75% viable tumor cells with ≥2+ membranous staining. Molecular class was assigned using a hierarchical DNA polymerase epsilon (POLE)-mutant, microsatellite instability/mismatch repair-deficient (MSI/MMRd), p53-abnormal, and no specific molecular profile (NSMP) classifier. Tumor mutational burden (TMB) and recurrent genomic alterations were analyzed in relation to biomarker expression.TROP2 was broadly expressed, with median H-scores of 280 in endometrioid and 200 in serous carcinomas. HER2 gastric-score 2+/3+ expression and FRα positivity were enriched in serous versus endometrioid carcinoma (22.5% vs 8.9% and 20.1% vs 4.4%), restricted to FIGO grade 3 tumors, and concentrated in p53-abnormal disease. FRα positivity was absent in POLE-mutant and MSI/MMRd tumors. HER2 2+/3+ expression correlated with erb-b2 receptor tyrosine kinase 2 (ERBB2) alterations, whereas FRα-positive tumors were enriched for TP53 alterations and showed lower frequencies of ARID1A and PTEN alterations. Triple-negative TROP2/HER2/FRα tumors were uncommon (6/308, 1.9%).TROP2 is broadly expressed in endometrial carcinoma, whereas HER2 and FRα define a more restricted high-grade, serous/serous-like, p53-abnormal compartment, supporting biomarker-informed ADC development.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42566987 is a review article
Upper tract urothelial carcinoma (UTUC) is an aggressive malignancy with limited molecular characterization in advanced disease. FGFR3 alterations are well established in low-grade urothelial carcinoma, but their prevalence, stability, and biological significance in locally advanced and metastatic UTUC remain only partially defined. We performed an integrated morphologic, immunohistochemical, and molecular analysis of 24 locally advanced and/or metastatic UTUC from 20 patients. FGFR3 status was assessed by RT-PCR across multiple tumor compartments, including biopsies, primary tumors, lymph-node metastases, and distant metastatic sites. Immunohistochemistry included CK20, CK5, GATA3, p53, and mismatch repair proteins. Targeted next-generation sequencing (NGS) was used to characterize co-occurring genomic alterations and to assess concordance with p53 immunophenotype. FGFR3 alterations were identified in 50% of patients and in 54.2% of analyzed tumors. FGFR3 status showed high intra-patient stability, with concordance between primary tumors and distant metastases in 90% of cases, whereas concordance with lymph node metastases was lower (50%), suggesting site-specific clonal divergence. Despite advanced stage, 92.3% of FGFR3-altered tumors displayed papillary urothelial carcinoma morphology, and most showed a luminal immunophenotype (61.5% by CK20/CK5 and 69.2% by GATA3/CK5). Targeted NGS revealed additional pathogenic alterations in 75% of patients, most frequently involving RTK/RAS/MAPK signaling (70%), cell-cycle regulation (25%), and PI3K/AKT pathway components (10%). TP53 mutations co-occurred with FGFR3 alterations in 60% of FGFR3-mutated patients and showed 90.4% concordance with p53 immunohistochemistry. Finally, a few cases exhibited complex, multi-site FGFR3 mutational patterns, consistent with intratumoral clonal evolutions. In conclusion, FGFR3 alterations are frequent and remarkably stable in advanced UTUC, even in high-grade and metastatic disease. These findings support the reliability of FGFR3 testing on limited diagnostic material and reinforce its relevance for therapeutic stratification. UTUC emerges as a molecularly dynamic disease in which early oncogenic drivers such as FGFR3 continue to shape tumor biology and therapeutic vulnerability at advanced stages.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier GmbH.
Molecular classification has refined risk stratification in endometrial cancer and is now incorporated into the 2023 International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) staging system. However, prospective real-world data on its impact on multidisciplinary tumor board (MDT) decision making remain limited. We evaluated the impact of molecular information on adjuvant treatment recommendations in stage I to II endometrial cancer.This prospective observational study included patients with surgically treated FIGO 2023 stage I to II endometrial carcinoma discussed at MDT between February 2024 and December 2025. Clinicopathologic risk stratification was performed using the ESGO-ESTRO-ESP 2016 criteria. Molecular classification was determined using POLE sequencing and immunohistochemistry for mismatch repair (MMR) and TP53. Estrogen receptor status was not assessed, as no specific molecular profile (NSMP) subclassification was part of the operative framework during the study period. MDT recommendations were recorded before and after the integration of molecular results.A total of 122 patients were included. Molecular subtypes were NSMP in 55 (45.1%), MMR-deficient in 41 (33.6%), TP53-abnormal in 24 (19.7%), and POLE-mutated in two (1.6%). Integration of molecular classification changed MDT recommendations in 25 cases (20.5%), with escalation in 15 (12.3%) and de-escalation in 10 (8.2%). Therapy modification was most frequent in TP53-abnormal tumors (62.5%) compared with other subgroups (10.2%; odds ratio, 14.7 [95% CI, 5.1 to 42.1]; P < .001). No treatment changes were observed in NSMP or POLE-mutated tumors. The net incremental treatment cost was ₹11.8 lakh across the cohort; including molecular testing, the overall incremental cost was ₹34,672 per patient (∼$418 US dollars).Integration of molecular classification modified adjuvant treatment in approximately one fifth of patients. Changes were biologically consistent, supporting the feasibility and clinical utility of molecularly integrated MDT decision making in early-stage endometrial cancer even in resource-constrained settings.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42566728 is a review article
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a chronic, progressive lung disease characterized by persistent alveolar epithelial injury and aberrant tissue remodeling. Increasing evidence suggests that senescence of alveolar epithelial cells (AECs) contributes to impaired epithelial regeneration and maladaptive tissue repair by limiting reparative capacity and promoting profibrotic signaling. However, the molecular drivers of AEC senescence and their impact on the immune microenvironment in IPF remain incompletely understood. Here, we investigated senescence-associated genes involved in IPF pathogenesis and evaluated their diagnostic and therapeutic potential. IPF transcriptomic datasets were retrieved from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO). Senescence-related differentially expressed genes (SRDEGs) were identified by intersecting IPF-derived differentially expressed genes with a curated human senescence gene list. Functional enrichment analyses were performed to delineate SRDEG-associated biological processes. Hub genes were prioritized using machine-learning approaches, and a diagnostic model was constructed and assessed by receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis. Candidate genes were further validated through in vivo and in vitro experiments. Given the upstream regulatory role of CHEK2 in DNA damage response-associated cellular senescence, Fostamatinib was screened as a potential therapeutic agent, and its interaction with CHEK2 and functional effects were examined using molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulations, and experimental assays. Two senescence-associated hub genes, CHEK2 and TP53 BP1, were identified as key contributors to IPF pathology (FDR-adjusted P < 0.05), and a model incorporating both genes achieved high diagnostic performance. Experimental validation, however, indicated that only CHEK2 showed IPF-specific differential expression and was closely associated with AEC senescence and fibrotic progression. In silico analyses supported stable binding between Fostamatinib and CHEK2, and subsequent molecular and cellular experiments suggested that Fostamatinib may attenuate CHEK2-associated senescence and profibrotic responses. Collectively, these findings identify CHEK2 as a critical regulator of AEC senescence and IPF development, supporting its potential use as a diagnostic biomarker and therapeutic target. Fostamatinib may represent a candidate therapeutic strategy for IPF by modulating CHEK2-related senescence pathways.Copyright: © 2026 Ding et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Nearly half of patients with melanoma do not respond to immune checkpoint inhibitors (CPIs) and many develop immune-related adverse events (irAEs), often forcing treatment discontinuation, and underscoring the need to predict and monitor outcomes. Responses may depend on both B cell and T cell activity.We performed high-dimensional mass cytometry profiling of coexisting peripheral B cell and key T cell states in treatment-naïve patients and healthy individuals, and paired longitudinal samples from CPI-treated patients, with clinical annotations to define immune correlates of outcomes.CPI-naive patients exhibited reduced CD19+ B cells, reduced B cell (CD21, IL-2, CXCR5) and T cell (CD38, CD27) activation markers, alongside enriched naïve (CD21lo) and double-negative (DN2)-like B cells, CD95+IL-10+plasmablasts, consistent with extrafollicular responses. Concurrently, programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1)+ and proliferation marker protein-67 (Ki67)+ T cell expansion indicates ongoing activation with features of proliferative exhaustion. Active disease featured increased regulatory CD95 expression on B cells and expanded T follicular helper-like and activated DN (CD4-CD8-) T cells, indicating sustained antigen stimulation. Pretreatment, elevated PD-1+ T cells predicted irAEs, whereas VEGF (vascular endothelial growth factor)+TGF-β (transforming growth factor-β)+ DN T cells were enriched in patients without subsequent toxicity. Pretreatment, plasmablasts, transitional B cells, Forkhead box protein P3 (FoxP3)+ and central memory-like CD8+ T cells correlated with worse overall survival; naïve CD21lo B cells, PD-1+CD8+ T cells and CD4+follicular helper-like T cells predicted shorter event-free survival; CD4+ memory T cells predicted better prognosis, implicating dysregulated differentiation and sustained activation in adverse outcomes. On-treatment, naïve CD21hi B cells, plasmablasts, activated CD8+ and central memory-like CD4+ T cells expanded, indicating de novo humoral responses and cytotoxic T cell invigoration. On-treatment, increased class-switched memory (IgG2+) B and activated T cells predicted improved survival, while persistent naïve and DN B cells were associated with poorer outcomes. Anti-PD-1 monotherapy expanded naïve (CD21hi) B cells and global T cells. Anti-PD-1/anti-LAG-3 (lymphocyte-activation gene 3) combination contracted memory B cells.Melanoma displays aberrant peripheral B and T cell activation, maturation and exhaustion, prominent in active disease. Treatment-induced class-switched B cells and T cell invigoration predict clinical benefit and naïve/DN B cells signify resistance. Coordinated B and T cell responses, especially recurrent extrafollicular B cell and exhausted/regulatory T cell states emerge as candidate indicators of outcome.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY. Published by BMJ Group.
Introduction. Bacterial vaginosis (BV) is a common gynaecological disorder characterized by an imbalance in the vaginal microbiota, leading to increased risk of infection and recurrence.Hypothesis/Gap statement. Although the role of microbiota dysbiosis in BV is established, the dynamic changes in microbial communities and inflammatory factors during BV formation and recurrence, as well as reliable biomarkers for predicting recurrence, remain inadequately explored.Aim. This study aimed to systematically analyse the changes in vaginal microbiota and inflammatory factors during different stages of BV formation and recurrence, and to identify potential biomarkers for predicting BV recurrence.Methodology. Vaginal swab samples were collected from 135 women, including 55 BV patients, 50 intermediate BV (IBV) patients and 30 healthy controls. Twenty-six recurrent BV (Re-BV) samples were obtained within 1 year after treatment. 16S rRNA gene sequencing was performed to profile the vaginal microbiota, and ELISA was used to measure IL-6, IL-10 and IL-1β levels. Statistical analyses included diversity metrics, correlation analysis and predictive modelling using LASSO regression and receiver operating characteristic curves.Results. Microbial richness was significantly higher in BV, Re-BV and IBV groups compared to controls. Lactobacillus abundance decreased progressively from IBV to BV, while Gardnerella, Prevotella, Sneathia, Fannyhessea and Dialister increased. These genera were positively correlated with vaginal pH, human papillomavirus (HPV) status and enzymatic activity. IL-6, IL-10 and IL-1β levels were elevated in BV, IBV and Re-BV groups. IL-10 and IL-1β were further increased in recurrent cases. A combined predictive model integrating microbial and cytokine markers achieved an area under the curve of 0.928 for BV recurrence.Conclusion. Distinct shifts in vaginal microbiota composition and inflammatory factor levels occur during BV formation and recurrence. The integration of microbial and cytokine profiles offers a robust approach for predicting BV recurrence, with important implications for clinical management and prevention strategies.
The roles of Enterococcus faecium (E. faecium), Enterococcus faecalis (E. faecalis), and Bacillus subtilis (B. subtilis) in colitis remain poorly defined, with existing literature presenting inconsistent and often contradictory evidence. This study aimed to elucidate their contributions to inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) using both infectious (non-typhoidal Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium, S. typhimurium) and chemical (dextran sulfate sodium, DSS)-induced colitis models. Colitis was induced in C57BL/6 mice via a single oral dose of S. typhimurium (ATCC14028) and/or administration of DSS for seven days. E. faecium (ATCC51559), E. faecalis (ATCC700802), and B. subtilis (MTCC25292) were orally administered. Disease progression was assessed through body weight monitoring, disease activity index (DAI), biochemical assays, and histopathological evaluation of colon tissues. Administration of individual E. faecium strain or E. faecalis strain did not significantly alter disease parameters. However, administered strain of E. faecalis exacerbated colitis severity in the S. typhimurium-induced model. Co-administration of DSS with S. typhimurium resulted in a pronounced aggravation of disease severity, as evidenced by clinical, biochemical, and histological markers. Notably, treatment with B. subtilis showed colitis attenuation, demonstrated by improvements in DAI, colon length, fecal calprotectin levels, and histopathological scores. These disease-modifying effects were associated with decreased colonic expression of pro-inflammatory mediators (CXCL-1, TNF-α, IL-1β) and increased levels of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10. Tested strain of E. faecalis does not induce colitis under steady-state conditions in this model but may aggravate pathogen-induced colitis, whereas E. faecium strain shows no significant effect under the applied experimental conditions. Combined DSS and S. typhimurium exposure induces robust colitis, wherein B. subtilis exhibits potential disease-modifying effect.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Acute kidney injury (AKI) is a common and harmful syndrome associated with sepsis. It is difficult to predict and has an adverse impact on both short- and long-term prognosis. Two urinary biomarkers, tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-2 (TIMP-2), and insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 7 (IGFBP7) have been validated for predicting moderate and severe AKI and improving the recognition of organ failure in critically ill patients with sepsis. We aimed to evaluate the performance of these markers for predicting sepsis-related AKI and its evolution in a cohort of patients admitted to the Emergency Department with infectious disease and high risk of sepsis. This single-centre, prospective, observational study included adult patients presenting to the Emergency Department (ED) with suspected infection. Patients were included in the study if they had a National Early Warning Score 2 (NEWS 2) of 3 or higher. Three blood samples were drawn during the first 24 h, and we defined AKI according to the Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes (KDIGO) definition. The first urine sample during ED stay was collected for urinary [TIMP-2]•[ IGFBP7] determination. Higher admission levels of urinary [TIMP-2]•[IGFBP7] were associated with the development of AKI moderate-severe within 24 h (adjusted Odds Ratio 1.24; 95% Confidence Interval 1.07-1.43; p < 0.01). The biomarker showed only modest overall discrimination (AUC 0.67). Still, predefined cut-offs revealed complementary diagnostic roles: low values (<0.3) may help exclude AKI with a negative predictive value of 0.86, whereas the highest values (>2.0) increase its likelihood. Creatinine trajectories and inflammatory profiles were largely similar across groups, except for elevations in IL-10 and IL-1RN in high-risk patients. In conclusion, urinary [TIMP-2]•[IGFBP7] measured on presentation to the ED had only moderate discrimination for sepsis-associated AKI. However, values (<0.3 units) could help to rule out the risk of developing AKI, while values >2.0 indicated high risk.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS on behalf of Société de Réanimation de Langue Française (French Intensive Care Society).
Sjögren's disease (SjD) is a systemic autoimmune disease showing clinical characteristics similar to systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and systemic sclerosis (SSc) at early phases, complicating diagnosis.In this cross-sectional study, blood was obtained from 65 SjD, 34 SLE, and 44 SSc patients and 56 healthy donors (HD). Numbers and percentage of circulating leukocytes and expression of HLA-DR, PSGL-1, ADAM8, IL-10 and IFNα were determined by flow cytometry.Compared to HD, SjD patients showed generalized immune system activation and global reduction of circulating leukocytes, except for plasma cells, which were increased. IFNα levels were reduced in SjD CD16- monocytes, dendritic cells (DC), B cells and basophils, but increased in SjD CD16+ monocytes and T cells, showing a positive correlation between IFNα T cell levels and percentage of circulating plasma cells. ADAM8 expression levels were reduced in CD16+ monocytes and B cells. In plasma cells and plasmablasts reduction of ADAM8 expression levels were observed during disease activity. SjD patients had reduced percentage of PSGL-1+ neutrophils and increased percentage of PSGL-1+ B cells (PS1B), which expressed higher levels of IL-10 than those from HD. Low percentage of PSGL-1-expressing neutrophils, basophils, T cells and NK cells and low PSGL-1 expression level in pDC associated with the presence of cutaneous manifestations. Low PSGL-1 expression level in basophils, cDC and both CD16- and CD16+ monocytes was associated with the presence of anti-SSB autoantibodies. Remarkably, we found two cellular biomarkers: PS1B/%pDC ratio (PPr) distinguished SjD patients from HD (accuracy: 78%) and from SSc (accuracy: 84%) and PS1B discriminated SjD from SLE (accuracy: 70%). Both biomarkers improved diagnostic accuracy when combined with current serological markers.Dysregulated PSGL-1 and ADAM8 expression in SjD circulating cells is associated with important clinical manifestations in SjD patients, supporting their potential relevance as therapeutic targets in this disease. Additionally, we found PS1B and PPr as new cellular biomarkers that could help improve SjD diagnostic accuracy, particularly in seronegative or ambiguous cases during the early phase of disease.Copyright © 2026 Ramos-Manzano, Sánchez-Abad, San Antonio, Uriarte-Ecenarro, González-Álvaro, Saez-Martínez, Dueñas-Ochoa, García-Pérez, Ancochea, Vicente-Rabaneda, Castañeda and Urzainqui.
Cigarette smoke is a major risk factor for respiratory infections and chronic inflammatory lung diseases, yet the mechanisms through which it alters host-pathogen interactions remain incompletely understood. Klebsiella pneumoniae is an opportunistic Gram-negative pathogen that causes severe infections, particularly in susceptible individuals. This study investigated the effects of cigarette smoke extract (CSE) on K. pneumoniae virulence-associated traits and host immune responses.Three multidrug-resistant, extended-spectrum β-lactamase-producing clinical K. pneumoniae isolates were exposed to CSE. Bacterial growth, virulence gene expression (mrkA, luxS, and AcrB), biofilm formation, antimicrobial susceptibility, macrophage invasion, neutrophil phagocytosis, and cytokine responses in THP-1-derived macrophages were evaluated using microbiological, molecular, and cell culture assays.High concentrations of CSE (≥25%) suppressed bacterial growth, whereas 5-10% CSE had minimal effects. Exposure to 10% CSE significantly upregulated mrkA, luxS, and AcrB expression. Biofilm formation increased by 20.8-37.0%, and minimum inhibitory concentrations of ciprofloxacin and tigecycline increased two-fold following CSE exposure. CSE enhanced bacterial invasion of THP-1 macrophages and impaired neutrophil phagocytosis, reducing bacterial uptake by 17.8% and 29.9% after 30 and 60 min, respectively. Furthermore, CSE promoted a pro-inflammatory response characterized by increased TNF-α and IL-1β expression and reduced IL-10 expression across multiple time points.CSE enhances the virulence potential of K. pneumoniae while disrupting innate immune defenses and immune regulation. These findings demonstrate a harmful synergy between cigarette smoke and bacterial infection that may contribute to the increased susceptibility and severity of respiratory infections observed in smokers.Copyright © 2026 Eltwisy, Abdel-Fattah, Elsayed, Assiri, Seif Eldin, Elkhawaga, Khalifa and Ahmed.
This experimental rat study aims to investigate the preventive role of melatonin in potential neurodegenerative changes associated with periodontitis in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex.Twenty-four Sprague Dawley rats were divided into three groups: Control (n = 8), Ep (n = 8), Ep + Mel (n = 8). Systemic melatonin (10 mg/kg/day) was administered to the Ep + Mel group for 35 days of periodontitis induction, starting from the application of bilateral lower first molar ligation. Following sacrification of all groups, periodontal bone loss was analyzed in Micro-CT sections (sagittal and coronal). Cerebral cortex and hippocampus tissues and serum samples were analyzed histopathologically, immunohistochemically, and biochemically.Micro-CT results showed that the experimental periodontitis model was successful. When Ep + Mel and Ep were compared, a significant difference was observed in terms of histopathological damage, Caspase-3, GFAP, and Iba-1 immunopositivity (p < 0.05). Systemic melatonin administration was found to significantly reduce tissue and serum levels of IL-1β, IL-1β/IL-10, and Aβ1-42 (p < 0.05). Additionally, serum TNF-α and tissue TOS and OSI levels were significantly reduced in the melatonin group (p < 0.05). Tissue TAS and serum IL-10 showed no significant change (p > 0.05).This study demonstrated that systemic melatonin may limit periodontal tissue destruction and periodontitis-associated neuroinflammatory, neurooxidative, and neuroapoptotic changes in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Hemoperfusion has emerged as a potential extracorporeal blood purification strategy for attenuating inflammation during cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB), but perioperative biomarker trajectory data remain limited. This pilot comparative study evaluated whether integration of the HA380 cartridge into the CPB circuit was associated with altered postoperative inflammatory kinetics in adult cardiac surgery.In this single-center, nonrandomized, biomarker-focused pilot study, 60 adult patients undergoing cardiac surgery with CPB were included, with 30 patients receiving HA380 hemoperfusion during CPB and 30 patients managed with conventional CPB alone. Serum levels of TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, and C-reactive protein (CRP) were measured at four standardized perioperative time points: T0 (preoperative baseline), T1 (end of surgery/ICU admission; 0 h), T2 (postoperative 24 h), and T3 (postoperative 48 h). Because treatment allocation was not randomized and baseline inflammatory imbalance was present, change-from-baseline and trajectory analyses were prioritized.The HA380 group entered surgery with a numerically higher baseline inflammatory burden. However, by postoperative 24 h and 48 h, most proinflammatory biomarkers in the HA380 group showed a downward trajectory or remained near baseline, whereas the control group demonstrated persistent postoperative elevation. This pattern was more clearly captured by change-from-baseline analyses than by crude postoperative absolute values alone. The composite inflammatory burden score decreased postoperatively in the HA380 group but increased progressively in the control group, supporting a global attenuation of inflammatory propagation rather than an isolated effect on a single cytokine.In this biomarker-focused pilot study, HA380 hemoperfusion integrated into the CPB circuit was associated with a more favorable postoperative inflammatory trajectory. These findings support the biologic plausibility of intraoperative hemoperfusion as an adjunct extracorporeal modulation strategy and justify further validation in larger studies.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42566092 is a review article
We investigated the role of SIRT1 in linear growth and bone structure, focusing on the response of the epiphyseal growth plate (EGP) to nutritional manipulation.A ColX-Cre driver was used to target hypertrophic chondrocytes (HZ), and generate hypertrophic specific Sirt1 knockout (CKO) mice.We found that Sirt1 deletion in hypertrophic chondrocytes markedly impaired growth in males, with a 33% reduction in body weight and 10-11% shorter long bones and EGP height (P<0.05). In females, effects were milder (12% reduction in weight, 5-7% shorter long bones; P<0.05 in both) but EGP height was reduced similarly to the males. These mice were next tested in a catch-up (CU) growth model involving food restriction followed by refeeding. Under CU conditions, male CKO mice showed an unexpected exaggerated response, surpassing the weight and bone length of normally fed CKO.We therefore conclude that targeted Sirt1 deletion in the hypertrophic zone revealed a strong sex-dependent effect on skeletal growth and bone quality. Both male and female CKO mice exhibited growth impairment under normal conditions compared to littermate control (CTL), however while male showed hyper-responsiveness to refeeding, females CKO showed only moderate alterations. This targeted approach uncovers sex-dependent role for SIRT1 in regulating growth and bone quality, moving beyond its generally understood functions in cartilage and bone development. The distinct responses to both basal conditions and nutritional stress between sexes represent a significant new finding, extending its known role beyond general cartilage and bone development.Copyright © 2026 Shtaif, Menahem, Hornfeld, Gabet, Phillip and Gat-Yablonski.
Prolonged physical fatigue impairs physiological homeostasis and quality of life, necessitating effective interventions. This study aimed to investigate the anti-fatigue effects and underlying mechanisms of a novel L-β-galactoglucan (APG) with two distinct molecular weights in mice under two different swimming load models using multiomics approaches. The results showed that APG could significantly extend exhaustive swimming time, reduce elevated serum lactate and blood urea nitrogen levels, increase muscle glycogen storage, and mitigate swimming-induced skeletal muscle and mitochondrial damage. Compared with its medium-molecular-weight counterpart, high-molecular-weight APG was more effective at improving these indicators. APG optimized the gut microbiota and increased the content of short-chain fatty acids. Specifically, it increased the ratio of Bacteroidetes/Bacillota and promoted the abundance of beneficial bacteria, including Dubosiella, Lachnospiraceae_UCG-006, Parabacteroides, Roseburia, Faecalibaculum and norank_o_Clostridia_vadinBB60_group, while increasing the concentrations of acetic, propanoic, and isobutyric acids. Notably, APG exerted load-specific regulatory effects: In the weight-bearing model, APG modulated mainly purine metabolism, whereas in the non-weight-bearing model, it predominantly regulated tryptophan metabolism. Both pathways converge to synergistically activate AMPK/SIRT1/PGC-1α signaling. Molecular docking further verified that APG exhibited strong binding affinity to key targets in these pathways. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that APG exerts anti-fatigue effects in a molecular weight-dependent and load-specific manner via the gut-muscle axis, providing a scientific basis for the development of APG as a targeted anti-fatigue functional ingredient.Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Guazuma ulmifolia is traditionally used for liver disorders, but its protective mechanisms against heavy metal toxicity are poorly defined. This study evaluated the phytochemical profile and hepatoprotective mechanisms of G. ulmifolia butanol extract (Gul-BuOH) against cadmium-induced liver injury.Gul-BuOH was chemically profiled by UPLC-PDA-ESI-qTOF-MS/MS. Cadmium hepatotoxicity was induced in rats, followed by Gul-BuOH treatment (100 and 200 mg/kg). Liver injury, oxidative stress, inflammation, gene expression (Let-7a, HOTAIR), histopathology, HO-1/Sirt-1 immunoreactivity, and serum metabolomic changes were assessed. Chemical profiling led to the annotation of 42 compounds, including mainly flavonoids and phenolic acids, highlighting the rich phytochemical composition of G. ulmifolia. CdCl2 exposure increased hepatic Cd accumulation and elevated ALT, AST, and ALP, reduced TAC, and increased NO and MDA. Gul-BuOH significantly reduced hepatic Cd levels by 2.6- and 3.2-fold, restored TAC by 38.3% and 83.2%, and decreased NO (56.3% and 63.4%) and MDA (45.4% and 54.6%) at 100 and 200 mg/kg, respectively. Inflammatory markers NF-κB-p and TNF-α were markedly suppressed, while miRNA Let-7a was upregulated and lncRNA HOTAIR was downregulated. Histological and immunohistochemical analyses revealed near-complete restoration of hepatic architecture and normalization of HO-1 and Sirt-1 expression at the high dose. Serum metabolomics' OPLS-DA model performance indicators demonstrated strong reliability, with an R2Y (explained variance) of 0.991 and a Q2 (predictive variance) of 0.988). The model identified 36 significantly altered metabolites that were largely normalized by Gul-BuOH, implicating linoleic acid metabolism, amino acid biosynthesis, and ascorbate-related pathways.Gul-BuOH affords dose-dependent protection against Cd-induced liver injury by modulating oxidative stress, inflammation, metal detoxification, and metabolic pathways, supporting the traditional use of G. ulmifolia and its potential as a multi-target hepatoprotective agent.Copyright: © 2026 Elsabagh et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
This exploratory study aimed to identify the effects of SIRT1 polymorphisms on the serum lipidomic profile and pathological characteristics in metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD).Chinese Han patients with biopsy-proven MASLD were genotyped for the single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in SIRT1. Lipidomics based on untargeted ultra-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (UHPLC-MS) was applied to map the SIRT1-driven serum lipid signature, followed by correlation analyses linking these lipid traits to hepatic steatosis, ballooning, lobular inflammation, and fibrosis. Integrative pathological scoring finally explored how SIRT1 variants that remodel circulating lipids may be associated with MASLD-specific histological change.SIRT1 SNPs (rs3740053, rs2394443, rs2236318, rs7896005, rs2273773, rs2394445, and rs2394446) demonstrated extensive association with serum lipidomics of MASLD patients. SIRT1 rs2236318, rs7896005, and rs2394445, affecting 2, 7, and 7 serum triacylglycerols (TAGs) respectively, dominated the SIRT1 SNP-lipidomics association. Quantitative analysis revealed significantly elevated TAGs levels (48:0, 50:0, 50:1, 52:0, 52:1, 52:2, and 54:1), the most abundant species, in MASLD patients with rs2394445 A/A genotype compared with A/T+T/T. These elevated rs2394445-dependent TAG levels were associated with high-grade hepatic steatosis (rho: 0.367 to 0.540, p < 0.033-0.001) rather than ballooning, lobular inflammation, or fibrosis. The significant correlation of rs2394445 A/A genotype with severe steatosis suggested a potential pathological link through TAG profile modulation. In contrast, rs2394445 showed a limited effect on total circulating lipids and obesity indices (BMI, WHtR).The A/A genotype at SIRT1 rs2394445 is associated with elevated serum TAGs containing saturated or monounsaturated fatty acids, which are linked to high-grade hepatic steatosis in MASLD independently of obesity.Copyright © 2026 Pan, Guo, Cao, Zheng, Mi, Zhang, Shen and Xu.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42557498
Altered energy metabolism is a shared driver across cardiometabolic diseases-the leading cause of death globally1. Energy metabolism varies between individuals and is partly heritable2-9. Here, to investigate the genetic basis of energy metabolism, we perform an exome-sequencing analysis of 1,032,116 people from America, Europe and Asia, and estimate associations between rare protein-coding variants and the ratio of triglyceride to high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol (TG:HDL)-an energy-state biomarker that we associate with diverse cardiometabolic risk factors and diseases. We identify 59 independent genes (P < 1.04 × 10-7) that are enriched for liver- and adipose-expressed master regulators of energy balance, storage and metabolism; 23 (39%) of these genes encode approved or clinical-stage drug targets. Ultra-rare protein-truncating variants in FNIP1 (allele frequency, 0.01%), which encodes a suppressor of energy expenditure and mitochondrial metabolism, are associated with a lower TG:HDL ratio, lower liver fat, lower glycaemia, favourable fat distribution and around 60% lower odds of cardiometabolic disease. FNIP1 knockdown in primary human hepatocytes induces lipid breakdown and lysosomal gene expression, while combined hepatic knockdown of Fnip1 with its paralogue Fnip2 or knockdown of its interactor Flcn protect against weight gain, reduce liver fat and enhance insulin sensitivity in mice fed a high-fat diet. Our study implicates the FNIP1 pathway in human energy metabolism and highlights its inhibition as a potential therapeutic strategy in cardiometabolic disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
Adequate sleep is essential for biological rhythmicity and metabolic homeostasis, but chronic sleep restriction (CSR), a common modern challenge, disrupts hypothalamic function and contributes to circadian dysregulation, oxidative stress, and metabolic disturbances. This study investigated the effects of AdipoRon (AR), an adiponectin receptor agonist, on CSR-associated changes in hypothalamic clock-gene expression, oxidative stress markers, and components of the SIRT1/NRF2/HO-1 signaling axis. Male mice were assigned to control, CSR, CSR + Melatonin (Mel), and CSR + AR groups. Animals underwent 21 days of sleep restriction (18 h/day) using the multiple-platform approach and received intranasal AR (10 µg) or Mel (40 µg) daily for 21 days. Circadian clock genes (Clock, Bmal1, Per1, and Cry1), oxidative stress markers (malondialdehyde, superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase, and total antioxidant capacity), and components of the SIRT1/NRF2/HO-1 pathway were assessed in the hypothalamus. Serum lipid profile and liver enzymes were also measured. The results showed that CSR induced marked alterations in hypothalamic clock-related gene expression, accompanied by increased oxidative stress and reduced expression of SIRT1/NRF2/HO-1 pathway-related proteins. In addition, CSR reduced body weight gain and triglyceride levels while increasing low-density lipoprotein (LDL), aspartate transaminase (AST), and alanine aminotransferase (ALT). In contrast, AR treatment partially reversed CSR-associated alterations in clock-related gene expression, attenuated oxidative stress, reduced LDL and ALT levels, and increased the expression of SIRT1/NRF2/HO-1 pathway-related proteins. These findings suggest that AR may mitigate CSR-associated molecular and metabolic alterations and warrant further investigation into its underlying mechanisms.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
LIMD1, a tumour suppressor located at chromosome 3p21.3, is frequently lost in non-small-cell lung cancer, yet its role in tumour-immune interactions remains unclear. Here, we show LIMD1 loss increases PD-L1 protein abundance across multiple lung cancer models and primary airway epithelial cells. Mechanistically, LIMD1 restrains PD-L1 through post-transcriptional and post-translational mechanisms. LIMD1 loss can relieve microRNA-mediated repression of the CD274 3'UTR, and LIMD1 loss can also disrupt ARIH1-PD-L1 association, reduce PD-L1 polyubiquitination, and stabilise PD-L1 protein without a commensurate increase in CD274 transcript levels in isogenic models. Functionally, LIMD1-deficient tumour cells suppress CD8+ T-cell activation in vitro and show enhanced sensitivity to PD-1/PD-L1 blockade in tumour-PBMC co-culture assays. Analysis of TRACERx non-small-cell lung cancer samples revealed clonal LIMD1 loss of heterozygosity in ∼40% of lung adenocarcinomas, where it is associated with increased tumour PD-L1 expression. Across independent patient cohorts receiving immune checkpoint blockade, low LIMD1 expression was enriched among responders. We identify LIMD1 as a tumour-intrinsic regulator of PD-L1 turnover and suggest that tumour suppressor loss can shape immune checkpoint biology and influence immunotherapy response.© 2026 Shah et al.
Although hydrophobic drugs demonstrate the promising therapeutic efficacy for peripheral artery disease in vitro, their in vivo performance is often hindered by low bioavailability due to inherent hydrophobicity. To address this, an injectable, self-healing and curcumin-sustained-release hydrogel (CGP hydrogel) using a gelatin/polyvinyl alcohol hydrogel (GP hydrogel) was developed. The CGP hydrogel effectively preserved the DPPH radical-scavenging activity of curcumin at room temperature. Meanwhile, in the murine hindlimb ischemia model, a single intramuscular injection of CGP following femoral artery ligation significantly improved the motor function of the ischemic limb compared to curcumin suspension. This superior therapeutic outcome is attributed to the sustained release of curcumin from the CGP hydrogel. Mechanistically, we found that CGP, but not GP, inhibited the expression of Atp6v0d2 in ischemic skeletal muscle cells and suppressed ischemia-induced autophagy. The inhibition of autophagy may mitigate tissue and cellular necrosis and promote the expression of Myogenin. Furthermore, CGP reduced the expression of pro-fibrotic factors such as Tgfb1 and Ctgf and prevented skeletal muscle fibrosis. In summary, the CGP hydrogel, through its sustained release of curcumin, inhibits ischemia-induced autophagy, alleviates necrosis and fibrosis in skeletal muscle tissue and preserves motor function in the ischemic limb.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Thyroid cancer (TC) is the most common endocrine malignancy. While papillary thyroid cancer (PTC) generally has a favorable prognosis, anaplastic thyroid cancer (ATC) is rare but highly aggressive, with limited treatment options, highlighting the urgent need for novel therapeutic targets. Macrophages are a major component of the immune infiltrate in TC, and their abundance is associated with poor prognosis. We recently identified upregulation of the immune checkpoint TIM3 (T-cell immunoglobulin and mucin-domain containing protein 3) on M2-like macrophages both in vitro and in ATC xenografts. In addition, we have shown that transforming growth factor β1 (TGFβ1) promotes macrophage polarization toward an M2-like phenotype. However, the role and clinical significance of TGFβ1 in regulating TIM3 expression in TC-associated macrophages remains unclear. We found that TGFβ1 secreted by ATC cells significantly increased HAVCR2 (TIM3) mRNA expression in human monocytes. Analysis of patient samples demonstrated elevated TIM3 expression in both PTC and ATC tissues compared with adenoma and normal thyroid counterparts. Analysis of publicly available single-cell RNA sequencing datasets further showed increased TIM3 expression in T cells from both tumor types. Notably, TIM3 upregulation was also localized to M2-like macrophages within the thyroid tumor microenvironment (TME), and positively correlated with TGFB1/CD163 expression, suggesting the involvement of a TGFβ-TIM3 axis in macrophages in TC. Combined targeting of the TIM3 and PD1 pathway in an immunocompetent mouse model of ATC led to a significant reduction in tumor growth. Together, these findings highlight TIM3 as a promising immunotherapeutic target in TC, with the potential to suppress macrophage-mediated pro-tumor activity while enhancing T-cell-driven anti-tumor immunity within the thyroid TME. © 2026 The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. This article has been contributed to by U.S. Government employees and their work is in the public domain in the USA.© 2026 The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. This article has been contributed to by U.S. Government employees and their work is in the public domain in the USA.
Classic Hodgkin lymphoma (CHL) is a highly curable disease. However, a subset of patients develops relapsed/refractory disease, underscoring the need for predictors of treatment response. Although immune-checkpoint inhibitors have improved outcomes, many patients still experience suboptimal responses. A deeper understanding of the CHL transcriptomic landscape may improve patient stratification and guide treatment approaches. Targeted mRNA-NGS was performed on formalin-fixed paraffine-embedded CHL-tissue using the HTG EdgeSeq Precision Immune-Oncology Panel (1,392 genes) in treatment-naive and post-chemotherapy relapsed treated with nivolumab-based protocols. Differential gene expression and pathway enrichment analyses were conducted to characterize tumor-intrinsic, and microenvironmental features associated with disease biology and treatment response. Across all CHL samples (n = 25) we observed overexpression of immune-checkpoint and immunoregulatory genes (CD274, CTLA-4, IL6, IL13), and markers of macrophage-rich/matrix-remodeling microenvironment (CD163, MMP2, TIMP1), alongside loss of B-cell identity and tumor suppression programs. Pathways analysis revealed activation of IL6/JAK/STAT3, TNF-α/NF-κB, KRAS-UP, and Inflammatory response, with reduced proliferative and metabolic activity. Immunotherapy non-responders, both in the overall (n = 5; 20%), and the treatment-naïve CHL (n = 2; 12%) displayed a proliferative, cytokine-activated, and immunologically cold phenotype. This includes shared overexpression of FADD, NFKB1, and TGFB1 and downregulation of SMAD7, together with activation of E2F, G2M, MYC, and PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathways and negative enrichment of TNF-α/NF-κB, IL6/JAK/STAT3, and Inflammatory response. Post-chemotherapy relapsed (n = 8) exhibited adaptative immunoregulatory and stress response signatures (IL15, TNFSF18, MAPK8, FUT4), along with reduced immune activation and loss of tumor-suppressor signaling. This study highlights the biological complexity and transcriptional diversity underlying CHL and its tumor microenvironment. Immunotherapy non-responders exhibited an "oncogene-driven" transcriptional profile independent of previous treatment status, whereas responders showed an "inflammatory immune-scape" phenotype, offering insight into mechanisms of resistance. Despite the limited sample size, these findings provide a foundation for larger precision-focused studies aimed at improving outcomes in CHL.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
CXCL13+ T cells and LAMP3+ dendritic cells (DCs) are pivotal players in orchestrating anti-tumor immune responses, particularly within tumor tertiary lymphoid structures (TLS). However, their heterogeneity, differentiation trajectories, and clinical relevance in bladder cancer remain incompletely defined. This study integrated single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data (16 bladder cancer patients, 113,905 post-quality-control cells) and spatial transcriptomics to characterize CXCL13+ T cell/LAMP3+ DC subsets, their differentiation pathways (via Velocyto trajectory analysis), and intercellular crosstalk (via receptor-ligand mapping). A risk model (DTscore) was constructed using marker genes of these cells and validated in the IMvigor210 (atezolizumab-treated bladder cancer) and TCGA-BLCA cohorts. scRNA-seq clustering identified 10 immune and 3 nonimmune cell types, with T cells stratified into 8 subpopulations (including CD4+CXCL13+ T cells and CD8+CXCL13+ T cells) and DCs into 9 subgroups (including LAMP3+ DCs). Receptor-ligand mapping and spatial transcriptomics confirmed functional crosstalk between CXCL13+ T cells and LAMP3+ DCs via key pairs (e.g., CCR7-CCL19, CXCR5-CXCL13, PDCD1-CD274) within TLS. The DTscore was developed using 8 marker genes (TSHZ2, ALOX5AP, GADD45G, TXN, CHN1, CCL19, CXCL13, ICA1) and exhibited robust prognostic and predictive performance: In the IMvigor210 cohort, high DTscore correlated with significantly poorer overall survival (OS) and a 3.27-fold lower immunotherapy response rate (11% vs. 36%, p = 4.23e-07); multivariate Cox regression confirmed DTscore as an independent OS predictor (hazard ratio = 1.97, p < 0.001). DTscore retained prognostic value in TCGA-BLCA (OS: p = 0.003; disease-specific survival: p < 0.001) and effectively predicted atezolizumab response even in the "immune desert" phenotype (p = 0.04). Combining DTscore with tumor mutational burden/tumor neoantigen burden yielded an AUC of 0.8122 for response prediction. Additionally, high DTscore was associated with higher OS hazard ratios in patients with wild-type TTN, RB1, EP300, or FGFR3 (all p < 0.01), while FGFR3 mutations correlated with lower immune checkpoint/CXCL13 expression. This study delineates the heterogeneity and interactions of CXCL13+ T cell/LAMP3+ DC subsets in bladder cancer TLS and validates DTscore as a robust tool for predicting OS and immunotherapy response, offering a potential guide for personalized bladder cancer treatment.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
With low five-year survival estimates, poor prognosis, and high recurrence probabilities, glioma is considered one of the most intractable malignant tumors. Despite the discovery of lymphatic vascular system and immune system in the central nervous system (CNS), immune checkpoint blockade therapeutics, such as programmed death ligand 1 (PDL1, also called B7H1 or CD274) antibodies, are prevented from the CNS and glioma sites due to the existence of biological barriers including the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and blood-brain tumor barrier (BBTB). Herein, we constructed a BBB/BBTB-crossing recombinant antibody by fusing the PDL1 antibody (αPDL1) and the targeting moiety RAP22 peptide (RAP22) through a matrix metalloproteinase 2 (MMP2)-responsive cleavable linker, abbreviated as αPDL1-mRAP22. Not only was αPDL1-mRAP22 able to block PD1/PDL1 pathway, reduce T cell apoptosis, enhance T cell killing ability towards glioma cells in vitro, but also it showed higher accumulation in the glioma site, prolonged survival time, and potent immune responses as well as synergistic effects with temozolomide (TMZ) in vivo, offering a novel strategy for glioma immunotherapy.© 2026 Shenyang Pharmaceutical University. Published by Elsevier B.V.
BACKGROUND Allergic rhinitis (AR) is a common inflammatory disorder of the nasal mucosa triggered by allergens and characterized by sneezing, nasal congestion, and itching. This study aimed to identify and validate potential biomarkers associated with immune dysregulation in AR via bioinformatics analyses initiated with chemokine-related genes. MATERIAL AND METHODS AR-related datasets (GSE75011 and GSE50223) and 69 chemokine-related genes were analyzed via differential expression analysis and weighted gene co-expression network analysis to identify candidate genes. Random forest analysis was used to select optimal features. Expression analysis identified potential immunoregulatory biomarkers that were downregulated in AR samples. A nomogram incorporating these biomarkers was constructed as an exploratory tool to estimate individual AR probability and support future diagnostic model development. RESULTS Early growth response protein 2 (EGR2) and transforming growth factor-ß1 (TGFB1) were identified as chemokine-related biomarkers in AR. Immune infiltration analysis showed significant correlations between TGFB1 and M2 macrophages, as well as activated memory CD4+ T cells. Drug prediction identified tretinoin as a potential therapeutic agent targeting both biomarkers; molecular docking confirmed stable binding of the 3 top-ranked predicted drugs with TGFB1. Pilot reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction analysis demonstrated downregulation of EGR2 and TGFB1 in AR samples, providing preliminary supportive evidence. Gene set enrichment analysis indicated involvement in the MAPK and p53 signaling pathways, suggesting roles in cell proliferation, apoptosis, cell cycle regulation, and stress responses. CONCLUSIONS EGR2 and TGFB1 offer potential immunoregulatory biomarkers for AR diagnosis and may provide preliminary insights into AR pathogenesis and potential treatment strategies.
The heterogeneity and complex tumor microenvironment of lung adenocarcinoma lead to poor prognosis. Autophagy, as a key cellular process, interacts with tumor immune infiltration and jointly affects the progression of lung adenocarcinoma, but its core regulatory genes and mechanisms are still unclear.This study integrated three lung adenocarcinoma transcriptome datasets from the GEO database and performed cross-analysis with the human autophagy gene set to screen for differentially expressed autophagy-related genes. Identify core prognostic genes by constructing protein interaction networks and combining them with machine learning algorithms (Cox regression, SHAP analysis). Use the independent dataset GSE68465 to validate the model through a combination of 100 algorithms. Further elucidate the function, cellular localization, and association with smoking risk of core genes through enrichment analysis, immune infiltration assessment, single-cell transcriptome analysis, and network toxicology.A total of 276 shared autophagy‑related differentially expressed genes were identified. Using machine learning, five core genes-ENG, CDH1, KLF4, IL6, and MMP9-were selected. In the independent validation cohort, the prognostic model based on these genes demonstrated strong diagnostic performance (AUC > 0.9). Enrichment analysis revealed that the core genes were significantly enriched in pathways such as cellular senescence, autophagy, and FoxO signaling. Immune infiltration analysis showed that M1 macrophages and naïve B cells were significantly upregulated in tumor tissues, whereas resting dendritic cells were downregulated. Single‑cell analysis identified specific expression of genes including CDH1 and TGFB1 in type II alveolar cells and immune cells. Network toxicology and molecular docking confirmed that nicotine, a major component of cigarette smoke, exhibits high‑affinity binding to the core genes CDH1, HIF1A, KLF4, TGFB1, and BCL2.This study successfully identified and validated a robust prognostic feature consisting of five autophagy-related genes. These genes play a key role in the development of lung adenocarcinoma by regulating the tumor immune microenvironment, cell communication, and responding to external risk factors, providing new potential targets for prognosis prediction and targeted therapy.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Investigating the molecular mechanism of granulosa cell dysfunction is vital to understand the pathogenesis of polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS).Based on bioinformatics analysis, we analyzed the differentially expressed genes and their enrichment pathways between PCOS patients and normal samples. We also analyzed the levels of CD14 and miR-296-3p in PCOS patients. Pearson correlation coefficient was used to analyze the correlation between CD14 expression and PCOS-related inflammatory factors. CCK-8 assay, flow cytometry, qRT-PCR and western blotting were performed to explore the mechanism of CD14 modulated via miR-296-3p in KGN cells in vitro.The gene expression data of PCOS and normal individuals in the GEO database, as well as the experimental data in KGN cells.KGN cells were subjected to the following interventions: Transfection with miR-296-3p inhibitor to suppress miR-296-3p expression; Transfection with small interfering RNA targeting CD14 (si-CD14) to knock down CD14; Co-transfection with si-CD14 and miR-296-3p inhibitor to evaluate the rescue effect. The detections included CCK-8, flow cytometry, qRT-PCR and Western blotting.The expression of CD14 in patients with PCOS and KGN cells, and its correlation with inflammatory factors; The expression of MiR-296-3p in patients with PCOS, and its regulatory relationship with CD14; The effect of MiR-296-3p/CD14 on the viability and apoptosis of KGN cells; The influence of MiR-296-3p/CD14 on the NF-κB pathway.CD14 was up-regulated in PCOS patients and KGN cells, and the expression of CD14 was positively correlated with the expression of inflammatory factors (CAT, CCL2, ICAM1, IL10, MMP9 and TGFB1) related to PCOS. miR-296-3p was the upstream regulatory factor of CD14, and miR-296-3p inhibitor could promote cell apoptosis and inhibit cell viability. On the contrary, knockdown of CD14 in KGN cells inhibited apoptosis and promoted cell viability. Importantly, KGN cells co-transfected with si-CD14 and miR-296-3p could reverse the effects of miR-296-3p inhibitor and si-CD14 on the biological behavior of KGN cells. Moreover, miR-296-3p/CD14 axis mediated activation of NF-κB pathway in KGN cells.Down-regulation of CD14 attenuated the miR-296-3p inhibitor-induced increase in apoptosis and decrease in cell viability by suppressing NF-κB signaling pathway. Our findings contribute to further understanding of the pathogenesis of PCOS and provide potential biomarkers for PCOS.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Bullying poses a major risk for poor mental health. While findings from the general population highlight harmful effects of bullying, data from clinical samples with diverse diagnoses and evidence-based diagnostic methods is rare. This study aimed at exploring the association between psychopathology and active bullying involvement in child and adolescent psychotherapy outpatients.The preregistered study ( https://aspredicted.org/VYW_9TT ) included data from N = 719 outpatients aged 6-20 years from a German child and adolescent psychotherapy centre. Current experiences as a victim, bully-victim, or bully and distressing bullying-specific intrusions were assessed with a screening instrument. Gold-standard diagnostic assessment of psychopathology provided categorial ICD-10 diagnoses. The Strength and Difficulties Questionnaire depicted a dimensional proxy measure of psychopathology. Analyses included examining the frequencies of the bullying roles (victim, bully-victim, bully) and the occurrence of distressing bullying-specific intrusions, Pearson's chi-square tests for gender-specific differences, binary logistic regression analyses testing the bullying roles as predictors of ICD-10 diagnoses, and multiple one-way ANOVAs examining group differences on the Strength and Difficulties Questionnaire scores between the bullying roles.29% of all outpatients reported to be actively involved in bullying (22% victims, 5% bully-victims, 2% bullies), with 32% frequently experiencing distressing bullying-specific intrusions. While victims were more likely to have mood disorders (ICD-10 F3 disorders), bully-victims were less likely to have internalising and more likely to have externalising disorders and behavioural and emotional disorders with onset usually occurring in childhood and adolescence (ICD-10 F9 disorders). Bullies were more likely to have multiple disorders but less likely to have internalising disorders. Independent from specific diagnoses, victims, bully-victims, and bullies overall reported greater emotional and behavioural difficulties than outpatients without bullying experiences.Among outpatients in child and adolescent psychotherapy, bullying is linked to specific related psychological burden and role-specific psychopathology. Bullying and related psychological burden should be addressed and routinely assessed in mental health care settings. The link between bullying and psychopathology as well as specific intervention methods may be explored further in future research.© 2026. The Author(s).
CCR2+ monocytes are recruited to sites of acute myocardial injury, where they play a critical role in clearing necrotic debris and replenishing the depleted resident macrophage population. Although this response is necessary for early tissue repair, prolonged activation of inflammatory pathways and persistent recruitment of CCR2+ monocytes have been associated with accelerated ventricular remodeling and adverse outcomes. Inhibition of CCR2 has shown promise in preclinical models of myocardial injury and represents a potential therapeutic target. Cardiosphere-derived cell extracellular vesicles (CDC-EVs) have demonstrated cardioprotective effects partly through modulation of the immune response. We investigated whether CDC-EVs regulate inflammatory monocyte trafficking through effects on CCR2 signaling. We found that CDC-EVs reduce the surface availability of CCR2 on human monocytes through an miR-146a-dependent mechanism, resulting in decreased monocyte migration toward CCL2. These findings identify a previously unrecognized mechanism by which CDC-EVs modulate CCR2-dependent monocyte trafficking and provide new insight into how EVs regulate innate immune responses after myocardial injury.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists.
Adolescents with depressive symptoms are at increased risk of social functional impairment and are more likely to develop major depressive disorder. Digital interventions offer advantages, such as high accessibility, especially for adolescents. However, evidence on the effectiveness of web-based psychological interventions in alleviating depressive symptoms among adolescents remains limited.This study aims to develop a brief web-based psychological intervention tailored to the developmental and psychological characteristics of Chinese adolescents and to evaluate its effectiveness and influencing factors.In a 2-arm randomized controlled trial, adolescents aged 12 to 18 years with depressive symptoms were recruited from high schools in China. Eligible participants were randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to the intervention group (n=212) or the control group (n=224). Participants in the intervention group received a 4-week brief web-based emotional cognitive training program, whereas those in the control group received a web-based psychoeducation program. Nonprofessional helpers provided minimal support through text messages or phone calls. The primary outcome was depressive symptom severity. Secondary outcomes included the depressive symptom remission rate, changes in anxiety symptoms, suicidal ideation, and resilience. Data were collected at baseline (T0), postintervention (T1), and at 1- and 3-month follow-ups (T2 and T3). Statistical analyses included analysis of covariance (ANCOVA), logistic regression analysis, and mediation analysis.Two-way repeated-measures ANCOVA revealed a significant time effect (F3,1461=82.515; P<.001; η2p=0.140) on depressive symptom severity, with significantly lower scores at T1, T2, and T3 than at T0. No significant group effect (F1,1461=1.039; P=.31; η2p=0.001) or time-by-group interaction (F3,1461=2.424; P=.06; η2p=0.005) for depressive symptom severity was observed. Post hoc exploratory analysis showed that among adolescents with anxiety symptoms, the intervention group exhibited a higher depressive symptom remission rate at T1 than the control group (adjusted odds ratio 1.39, 95% CI 1.05-1.85; P=.02; number needed to treat=7). Additionally, the intervention group showed significantly greater improvements in the interpersonal support dimension of resilience at T1 (least squares mean difference=1.79, 95% CI 0.53-3.06; Cohen d=0.37, 95% CI 0.11-0.63; P=.006; false discovery rate-adjusted P=.04). Exploratory mediation analysis identified a significant indirect effect between the intervention and depressive symptom remission via the interpersonal support dimension of resilience at T1 (indirect effect=0.08, 95% CI 0.02-0.14; P=.009).The brief web-based psychological intervention showed no significant difference from web-based psychoeducation in reducing depressive symptoms across the 3-month follow-up period. Post hoc exploratory analyses detected a potential between-group difference in depressive symptom remission among adolescents with comorbid anxiety symptoms, with interpersonal support showing a significant mediating association. These exploratory findings may provide new insights into identifying the target population suitable for brief web-based psychological interventions and inform the development of tailored interventions in the future.Chinese Clinical Trial Registry ChiCTR2400090235; https://www.chictr.org.cn/showproj.html?proj=243991.©Pei Liu, Xinwei Wang, Xiaoxia Duan, Mingjing Situ, Yujie Tao, Zhaozhi Yang, Shengnan Zhao, Lei Li, Sixun Li, Yuchu Jiang, Manxue Zhang, Di Jing, Xinyi Yu, Yi Huang. Originally published in JMIR mHealth and uHealth (https://mhealth.jmir.org), 07.08.2026.
The simultaneous performance of tasks relying on the same cognitive processes might lead to gait disturbances. The study aims to explore the distinct involvement of working memory and inhibition during gait within a dual-task using 3D motion analysis and wireless electroencephalography (EEG), addressing limitations of previous research on the removal of gait-related artifacts from EEG signals and the EEG results' generalizability.30 healthy participants performed two cognitive tasks designed to engage inhibition (Go-NoGo) and working memory (N-Back). Data acquisition was performed using a 19-channel wireless EEG device and a 3D optoelectronic system. 51 EEG features, seven spatial-temporal and nine kinematic parameters (seven spatiotemporal metrics and Gait Variable Scores for nine lower-limb joint ranges of motion) were analyzed. Riemannian geometry-based methods were employed to enhance artifact removal from EEG signals and to improve the EEG results' generalizability across subjects.Gait analysis highlighted a predominant involvement of inhibition (p ≤ 0.048 for the most of spatial-temporal parameters and p ≤ 0.005 for GPS and GVS of Hip Flex-Extension among the kinematic parameters), whereas working memory engagement emerged mainly in response to higher cognitive demands (p = 0.037 for mostly spatial-temporal parameters and p ≤ 0.003 for GPS and GVS of Hip Flex-Extension among the kinetic parameters). Relative alpha desynchronization at F4 and at F3 emerged as candidate sensor-level EEG biomarkers of working memory- and inhibitory-related processes (p ≤ 5 ×10-5 ) in the earlobe-reference configuration. A cross-domain mixed-effects analysis further showed that, among the tested EEG-gait associations, relative alpha power at F3 during the Go-NoGo task was significantly associated with stride length in the earlobe-reference configuration, suggesting that this sensor-level EEG feature may represent a candidate marker for monitoring the interaction between inhibitory control and gait adaptation during dual-task walking.This study supports EEG-based monitoring of cognitive processes during walking and aids the design of tailored cognitive rehabilitation for motor-impaired individuals.© 2026. The Author(s).
Soft tissue tumors with chondroid matrix represent a heterogeneous group with persistent diagnostic challenges. Advances in molecular diagnostics have identified recurrent gene fusions in several chondroid neoplasms, predominantly involving FN1. Here, we report two cases of chondroid tumors harboring a novel FOS::PABPN1 fusion. The patients were young and presented with small, deep, peri-osseous nodules located in the extremities. Histologically, the tumors were well-circumscribed and lobulated. Both cases presented fibro-cartilaginous and spindle cell areas. No cytonuclear atypia, mitoses, or necrosis were observed. Immunohistochemistry (performed in Case 2) revealed positivity for S100, CD34, and FOS, with negativity for MDM2, HMGA2, PLAG1, and desmin. RNA sequencing identified an identical in-frame FOS::PABPN1 fusion transcript in both tumors. Unsupervised transcriptomic clustering positioned the cases near synovial chondromatoses and other chondroid lesions, despite the absence of FN1 rearrangements. Massive overexpression of the WIF1 (Wnt Inhibitory Factor1) gene was also observed. To our knowledge, this is the first description of FOS rearrangement in mesenchymal tumors exhibiting chondroid differentiation. The FOS::PABPN1 fusion expands the spectrum of FOS-altered neoplasms beyond osteoblastic and vascular lesions and defines a potential new molecular subset of benign chondroid tumors. These findings highlight the utility of RNA sequencing in the diagnosis of chondroid neoplasms in order to identify rearrangement (of FN1, THBS1 or FOS) or IDH1/2. The consistent upregulation of WIF1 may represent a potential diagnostic biomarker.© 2026 The Author(s). Genes, Chromosomes and Cancer published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Repair of acutely injured skeletal muscle relies on an adequate inflammatory response predominated by monocyte/macrophage infiltration. The process requires injured muscles to produce C-C chemokine ligand 2 (CCL2). The present study identified fibro/adipogenic progenitors (FAPs) as the primary source of CCL2 in acutely injured muscle, where the pro-inflammatory subcluster of FAPs expanded rapidly and expressed the highest level of CCL2. FAP-specific deletion of Ccl2 largely abolished CCL2 production by acutely injured muscle, reducing monocyte/macrophage infiltration and impairing muscle regeneration. In vitro, the CCL2 expression by both mouse and human FAPs was induced by danger signal-containing muscle homogenates through Toll-like receptor signaling. The CCL2 expression by mouse FAPs was also induced by infiltrating neutrophils, partly through their secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines. Our findings suggest an important immune sentinel role for FAPs, as they sense muscle damage, produce CCL2 to recruit inflammatory monocytes, and promote injury repair.© 2026 The Author(s).
In the current study, we genetically engineered Salmonella Typhimurium to serve a dual purpose in cancer immunotherapy, simultaneously inducing apoptosis and activating anti-cancer immune responses. Tumor-residing tryptophan auxotrophic Salmonella, featuring trpA and trpE deletions, selectively inhabits the tumor microenvironment, promoting tumor-targeted delivery of therapeutic antigens such as apoptin (an apoptosis inducer) and carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA; related to anti-cancer immunity), while minimizing off-target effects. The therapeutic strain had reduced endotoxic responses owing to a lack of pagL in its genome. Additionally, to enhance adaptation to the tumor microenvironment, the strain underwent consecutive passaging for over five generations, increasing its potency for tumor recognition and localization. A prokaryotic and eukaryotic dual-expression plasmid was developed by incorporating the complete apoptin open reading frame into the eukaryotic region and the CEA epitope collection associated with an MHC-II agonist peptide into the prokaryotic expression cassette. Each antigen was confirmed for successful expression at the intended sizes, with functional validation performed through in vitro cytotoxicity assessment. Mouse inoculation studies demonstrated that the Salmonella therapy significantly suppresses the progression of highly aggressive 4T1 breast cancer tumors as well as metastatic dispersion in lung, liver, and spleen tissues, fostering an anti-tumoral immune environment characterized by IFN-γ and CCL2 markers. This transformative approach to Salmonella-mediated cancer immunotherapy could pave the way for targeted treatments for immune-resistant cancers and hard-to-treat malignancies.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
The area around Wenquan County, Xinjiang, is home to numerous hot springs and abundant geothermal resources, offering significant potential for development and utilization. Currently, systematic research on the formation mechanisms of geothermal fields in this region remains relatively limited, which to some extent constrains the comprehensive development and utilization of Wenquan County's geothermal resources. This study selected the area around Wenquan County as the study area and employed methods such as remote sensing interpretation, ground temperature measurement, geophysical exploration and drilling, geothermal gradient calculations, rock radioelement measurements, hydrochemical analysis, and isotope analysis to elucidate the genesis mechanisms of the geothermal field. The results indicate that: (1) The geothermal anomaly areas in the Wenquan County geothermal field are primarily controlled by fault structures such as F2, F4, F3-1, and F17. The average geothermal gradient reaches 11.53°C/100 m, and the heat flow value of 320 mW/m2 is significantly higher than the average heat flow value at the northwestern margin of the Junggar Basin in Xinjiang, indicating a favorable terrestrial heat flow background. (2) Within the study area, well-developed structural fissures formed at the intersections of F2, F17, and F3-1, coupled with fractured rock masses, provide favorable conditions for groundwater storage and hydrothermal exchange. Based on the silica geothermometer, the average reservoir temperature is estimated at 132.4°C. Analysis indicates that the geothermal reservoir is located within structurally fractured zones, extending in a strip-like pattern on the surface, and belongs to the medium-low temperature belt-type geothermal reservoir. (3) The geothermal water in the study area has a SO4-Na hydrochemical type, originating from the infiltration of atmospheric precipitation in the southern Biezhentao Mountain area. It has undergone intense water-rock interactions, including hydrothermal alteration, sulfide oxidation, and decarbonation, transporting deep-seated heat to the surface through fault fracture zones. This study has essentially clarified the genesis model of the Wenquan County geothermal field, providing a crucial basis for the development and utilization of geothermal resources.Copyright: © 2026 Sun et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease is common and often progresses silently to advanced fibrosis, necessitating reliable, scalable screening strategies. We compared widely used serum fibrosis indices against vibration-controlled transient elastography (VCTE) measured liver stiffness in a nationally representative sample of U.S. adults.We performed a cross-sectional analysis of National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 2017-2018 participants aged ≥20 years with valid VCTE data. Participants with high alcohol intake (>30 g/day for men; >20 g/day for women), positive for hepatitis C, hepatitis B core antibody, or other chronic liver disease were excluded. We calculated values for aspartate aminotransferase-to-platelet ratio index (APRI), the body mass index, aspartate aminotransferase/alanine aminotransferase ratio, and diabetes score (BARD), Fibrosis-4 (FIB-4), Forns, and NAFLD fibrosis score (NFS) using published formulas and applied standard cutoffs (BARD ≥ 2; NFS ≥ 0.67; FIB-4 > 3.25; APRI > 1.50; Forns > 6.9). Advanced fibrosis was defined as median liver stiffness ≥9.7 kPa. Weighted analyses accounted for the complex survey design. Diagnostic performance metrics included positive and negative predictive values (PPV and NPV, respectively), false negative rate, and diagnostic odds ratio (DOR).Among 3,797 participants (weighted to >180 million U.S. adults), 5.5% (n = 251; 95% CI, 4.4-7.0) had VCTE-consistent advanced fibrosis (F3/4). All serum indices except BARD were associated with advanced fibrosis (BARD P = .22). NPVs for all tests (93.5%-94.8%) approximated the baseline NPV assuming no disease (93.4%). APRI yielded the highest PPV (62.5%) and highest DOR (24), followed by FIB-4 (PPV, 34.9%). BARD produced the lowest PPV (6.8%) and a DOR (1.2).In a nationally representative U.S. cohort, commonly used serum fibrosis indices demonstrate limited accuracy for detecting liver stiffness associated with advanced fibrosis. Among commonly recommended first-line indices, FIB-4 and NFS offer the best balance of accessibility and performance but have nontrivial false negative rates, and the BARD demonstrated minimal discriminatory value in this population. Further research is needed to develop a more accurate predictive model for advanced fibrosis.Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Association of Military Surgeons of the United States 2026.
The unfolded protein response (UPR) preserves endoplasmic reticulum proteostasis through coordinated signaling pathways, including the IRE1α-XBP1 axis, which promotes adaptive transcriptional programs via noncanonical XBP1 mRNA splicing. However, upstream mechanisms regulating this pathway remain incompletely defined. Here, we apply CRASP-seq, a scalable RNA-coupled CRISPR screening platform, to systematically identify regulators of XBP1 splicing. We uncovered the U2 snRNP auxiliary factor RBM39 as a critical positive regulator of this process. Perturbation of RBM39 or U2 snRNP components induces alternative splicing of ERN1, leading to exon-18 skipping and the production of an unstable transcript subject to nonsense-mediated decay, as well as a truncated IRE1α isoform that acts in a dominant-negative manner to suppress XBP1 splicing. Mechanistically, we show that heat shock reduces RBM39 functional activity and promotes ERN1 exon-18 skipping, thereby attenuating IRE1α-XBP1 signaling. Functionally, hyperactivation of this pathway is detrimental under proteotoxic stress, suggesting that exon-18 skipping serves as a stress-adaptive mechanism to limit UPR output. Together, our findings reveal a previously unrecognized regulatory axis linking the canonical splicing machinery to UPR signaling and establish alternative splicing of ERN1 as a key modulator of cellular stress responses.Published by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press.
Do particular pairs of individuals modeling sexual pairs exhibit differences in the induction of semen-mediated long-lasting tolerance in support of pregnancy?Yes, factors from both sexes contribute to the variability in the induction of long-lived regulatory T cells (Tregs) in response to semen, with factors related to the recipient seeming to slightly outweigh the factors related to the semen donor.Semen contains multiple immunomodulatory factors that can influence reproductive tract immunity in the recipient, promote tolerance to antigens from the semen donor (designated henceforth as 'paternal'), and ultimately support successful pregnancy. These factors include the soluble fraction containing prostaglandins and cytokines, as well as a very high concentration of extracellular vesicles (EVs). Both soluble and vesicular fractions of semen have been shown to promote tolerogenic phenotypes and migration in antigen-presenting cells (APCs), and to induce Tregs. This study was undertaken to understand the variation in tolerance induction between pairs of individuals modeling sexually active couples.We designed an in vitro pairing study using random semen donors (N = 11) and peripheral mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from random self-identified female recipients (N = 3). Semen was fractionated into vesicle-enriched (semen extracellular vesicles; SEVs) and soluble (vesicle-depleted semen plasma; VDSP) fractions. Monocyte-derived dendritic cells (MoDCs) from each of the recipients were exposed to semen fractions from each donor, then cocultured with autologous naïve T cells to assess tolerogenic responses, specifically, generation of Tregs (FOXP3+ CD25Hi CD127Lo CD4+ T cells) and their phenotypic differences (TIGIT+, PD-1+ CTLA-4+, or AREG+ Tregs). These cells were then screened for T cell receptor-dependent activation by activation-induced marker (AIM) expression assay. These responses were compared across all pairs of semen donors and recipient cells. In addition, semen fractions were screened for candidate mediators of tolerance, such as human leukocyte antigen G (HLA-G) and adenosine-generating enzymes.This study used an in vitro human cell culture approach in which primary blood-derived immune cells were exposed to semen-derived vesicular and non-vesicular fractions. Blood samples were obtained from healthy self-identified female donors, and semen samples were obtained from healthy participants who provided initial screening specimens for a contraceptive study. Semen-derived vesicular and non-vesicular fractions were characterized by western-blot analysis for markers associated with immune tolerance. Primary immune cells were exposed to these semen fractions, and the major endpoints included changes in Treg phenotypes and subset frequencies, as well as AIM expression. These outcomes were assessed by flow cytometry. No animal models were used.HLA-G content in semen (SEV and VDSP) varied markedly across donors, ranging from undetectable to high concentrations. Similarly, semen's capacity to generate adenosine from ATP differed by ∼4-fold among donors. Induction of Tregs by SEV and VDSP from 11 semen donors was highly variable, from 2.8% to 63.4% of CD4+ T cell population. Semen fractions from a few donors consistently elicited lower tolerogenic responses across all recipients. However, when we considered the combined effects of both semen fractions, none of the semen donors failed to elicit a measurable tolerogenic response. On the other hand, one recipient was a consistently low responder to tolerance induction. Thus, both recipient immune cells' features and semen-intrinsic properties are significant determinants of tolerogenic responsiveness. Semen re-exposure enhanced Treg AIM expression. The strongest effect was observed when Tregs were exposed to VDSP-loaded MoDCs. In contrast, SEV-loaded MoDCs caused a much weaker response.N/A.One limitation of our study is that we used semen and circulating recipient cells from random donors not selected for any clinical characteristics, such as history of infertility. In addition, we did not correlate HLA-G content and adenosine-generating enzyme expression levels with the Treg and AIM readouts. We show, via Treg activation, that semen induces tolerance to its antigens, but we do not demonstrate which specific antigens are recognized. We posit that the variation in semen-induced tolerance observed between couples plays a role in reproductive outcomes; however, larger studies in clinically characterized cohorts and using cells from the tissue microenvironment will be required to establish this link.Our findings demonstrate that semen-induced tolerance is highly variable and may be more strongly shaped by recipient factors than by semen donor factors. In addition, the generation of Tregs with enhanced activation to previously encountered semen supports the concepts of trained immunity and antigen-specific tolerance that arise cumulatively following exposure to semen from the partner. These Tregs are poised to expand and support pregnancies with fetuses expressing paternal alloantigens.This work was supported by the following grants: National Institutes of Health/Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development (R01AI153342) to L.V., National Institutes of Health/National Institute on Drug Abuse (R01DA040386) to F.H., National Institutes of Health/National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences (KL2TR002317) to G.G.G.The authors have no conflicts of interest to declare.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42563691 is a review article
Influenza A virus (IAV) remains a major global health threat due to its high mutation rate and the emergence of antiviral resistance. Targeting host factors provides an alternative therapeutic strategy to overcome these challenges. Previous studies have shown that the L-type calcium channel Cav1.2 was implicated in viral infections. In this study, we aimed to clarify the mechanism by which Cav1.2 acts as a critical host factor mediating IAV infection, using the dihydropyridine-type calcium channel blocker nisoldipine. Nisoldipine showed notable antiviral activity in both in vitro and in vivo models. Mechanistically, nisoldipine inhibited IAV internalization by targeting Cav1.2, thereby suppressing calcium-dependent activation of the Ras-PI3K-AKT, RhoA-ROCK, and JNK pathways associated with viral internalization. Moreover, nisoldipine modulated the unfolded protein response (UPR) in host cells by promoting adaptive XBP1 splicing and contributed to the maintenance of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) homeostasis during IAV infection. Collectively, these observations support a sequential cascade model: Cav1.2 inhibition restrains viral entry and indirectly mitigates virus-triggered ER stress. Furthermore, nisoldipine exhibits broad-spectrum in vitro antiviral activity against multiple enveloped RNA and DNA viruses, including human coronavirus OC43 (HCoV-OC43), respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), Zika virus (ZIKV), Dengue virus Type 2 (DENV2), and Herpes Simplex Virus Type 1/2 (HSV-1/2). This study clarifies the mechanistic involvement of Cav1.2 in IAV infection and further identifies it as a promising broad-spectrum antiviral target with potential applications in preventing and treating influenza, human coronavirus infections, and other emerging viral diseases.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Human epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) is characterized by profound immune dysregulation with a tumor microenvironment (TME) dominated by immunosuppressive populations such as regulatory T-cells that actively limit anti-tumor responses. Spontaneous ovarian tumors in older laying hens (Gallus gallus domesticus) closely resemble human EOC development and histopathological features, making them an ideal model to study human EOC. Here, we examined pathological and immunological changes in ovarian TME from hens with spontaneous ovarian tumors (OT). Histopathological characterization was consistent with the endometrioid subtype of ovarian adenocarcinoma, while the immunohistochemistry analysis showed reduced intratumoral T cell infiltration compared to control. The OT tissue gene expression analysis showed significant upregulation of FoxP3, CD25, CD40 PD-1, LAG-3 and GITR genes, accompanied by an increased IL-10 transcription compared to control, indicating regulatory T cell expansion and effector T cell exhaustion. Furthermore, significant reduction in the IL-1β, chTNFα and iNOS transcription suggested suppressed cellular inflammatory activation. These findings demonstrate that ovarian tumors in laying hens undergo a transition from an inflammatory state to an immunoregulatory, checkpoint-dominant TME, an observation resembling human EOC. This work supports the laying hen as a translational model for studying human ovarian cancer and developing diagnostic and therapeutic strategies.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Visceral leishmaniasis (VL), caused by Leishmania donovani, is characterised by progressive immune dysregulation that supports parasite persistence. The CD40-CD40L axis is essential for antigen-presenting cell (APC) licensing and Th1-mediated nitric oxide-dependent parasite control; however, how its function evolves during infection remains incompletely understood. Here, we define the temporal regulation and functional polarity of CD40 signalling during experimental VL.Using BALB/c mice and primary macrophage assays, we investigated the temporal regulation of CD40 signalling during experimental VL. CD40 expression, cytokine production, nitric oxide levels, antibody responses, T-cell phenotypes, immune checkpoint expression, and macrophage activation were evaluated during progressive infection. Functional studies included CD40 agonism, CD40 knockdown, and TRAF-selective CD40 reconstitution to assess stage-specific effects on parasite control and immune regulation.Increasing parasite burden drove a gradual shift in CD40 signalling from protective to suppressive outcomes. In vitro infection reduced CD40 expression and IL-12 production while increasing IL-10, indicating early impairment of APC licensing. In vivo, progressive splenic infection was associated with diminished nitric oxide production, a declining IgG2a/IgG1 ratio, expansion of GATA3+ Th2 and FOXP3+ regulatory T-cell populations, and increased PD-L1 and TIM-3 expression, consistent with a regulatory and exhausted immune environment. Despite partial recovery of CD40 expression on myeloid APCs at later stages, declining CD40L+ T-cell availability and sustained IL-10/Arg1 signalling limited functional responsiveness. Early CD40 agonism failed to restore parasite control, whereas late activation exacerbated disease. CD40 knockdown increased parasite burden and reduced iNOS+ macrophages, confirming the requirement for CD40-dependent licensing. Finally, TRAF2- biased CD40 signalling promoted macrophage activation and parasite restriction, whereas TRAF6-biased signalling reinforced immunosuppression.These findings identify a stage-dependent functional threshold beyond which CD40 signalling no longer sustains protective immunity during VL, highlighting the importance of restoring APC competence and selectively directing CD40 signalling through TRAF2-linked pathways.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of British Society of Immunology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Astrocytes contribute to the pathology of multiple neurological disorders, including the T cell-driven autoimmune disease of the central nervous system (CNS) multiple sclerosis and its mouse model, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis1. However, little is known about functional interactions between astrocytes and CD4+ T cells. Here using rabies barcode interaction detection followed by sequencing2, in combination with single-cell RNA sequencing, in vitro co-culture systems and cell-specific in vivo CRISPR-Cas9-based genetic perturbation studies, we established that astrocytes expressing CD40 and MHC-II promote CNS T cell autoimmunity. We harnessed universal labelling immune partnerships by SorTagging intercellular contacts3 to analyse astrocyte-interacting CD4+ T cells, finding that direct astrocyte-CD4+ T cell interactions enhance pathogenic T helper 17 cell responses in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. In addition, we studied the effect of these interactions on astrocytes. Using in vivo subproteomic approaches4 and AlphaFold-Multimer predictions5, we established that CD40 activation in astrocytes by CD40L expressed by CD4+ T cells induces the accumulation of PLIN4-positive lipid droplets, which provide acetyl-CoA to promote p65 acetylation-dependent NF-κB activation and antigen presentation. Finally, we detected CD40+MHC-II+LD+ astrocytes in multiple sclerosis samples by single-nucleus RNA sequencing and immunohistochemistry. In summary, these studies define a previously unrecognized mechanism by which astrocytes promote CNS autoimmunity.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Therapeutic protein overexpression can overwhelm endoplasmic reticulum (ER) folding capacity, trigger unfolded protein response (UPR) signaling, and compromise the safety of gene and mRNA therapies. Here, we engineer stress-responsive RNA rheostats that couple transgene expression to endogenous ER stress sensing. Short RNA elements derived from X-box-binding protein 1 (XBP1) mRNA undergo inositol-requiring enzyme 1α (IRE1α)-dependent splicing under ER stress, inducing a frameshift that attenuates downstream protein expression. XBP1 switches function across DNA and mRNA delivery platforms and regulate the expression of fluorescent reporters, coagulation factor VIII, and Leronlimab, a therapeutic anti-CCR5 monoclonal antibody. Switch activation reduces ER stress markers while preserving expression under homeostatic conditions. We further demonstrate the regulation of Leronlimab expression in vivo using recombinant adeno-associated virus vectors. Together, these findings establish programmable RNA feedback control as a strategy for linking cellular proteostasis to therapeutic protein expression and improving the safety of gene and mRNA therapies.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Focused ultrasound thermal ablation (T-FUS) is a clinically accessible, non-invasive modality capable of inducing rapid tumor cytoreduction while mobilizing early immunologic danger signals. However, its capacity to synergize with potent co-stimulatory immunotherapies in breast cancer (BC) remains undefined. Here, we investigated whether subtotal T-FUS cooperates with CD40 agonism to elicit durable, T cell-dependent tumor control across immunologically and molecularly distinct murine BC models.Subtotal ultrasound-guided T-FUS was applied to E0771, BRPKP110, EMT6, and 4T1 tumors in mice treated with systemic agonistic αCD40. Histology, ATP bioluminescence imaging, and multispectral flow cytometry were used to define acute tumor injury and immune remodeling. Therapeutic efficacy was evaluated by tumor growth, survival, T-cell depletion, and contralateral tumor rechallenge.Partial thermal ablation triggered canonical immunogenic cell-death signatures and acute remodeling of intratumoral myeloid populations, while expanding circulating CD4+ and CD8+ T cells. When layered onto this immunogenic milieu, αCD40 markedly constrained tumor outgrowth, yielding significant reductions in tumor burden across all models and complete tumor eradication in 30% of E0771 tumors, with additional complete responses in BRPKP110 and EMT6. Combination treatment also extended survival across three of four models. Efficacy required both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, as depletion of either compartment abrogated tumor control. Complete responders mounted robust systemic immunity, rejecting contralateral tumor rechallenge with 100% protection and displaying persistent effector-memory T-cell activation.Subtotal T-FUS cooperates with CD40 agonism to drive durable, T cell-dependent BC regression and immunologic memory. These findings establish T-FUS as an immune-potentiating partner for CD40 agonism and position this combination as a clinically scalable, in situ vaccination-like strategy with potential to broaden immunotherapy benefit across breast cancer subtypes, including luminal tumors that remain largely refractory to immune checkpoint blockade.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Whiplash-associated disorder grade II (WADII) is characterised by persistent pain in the absence of frank nerve injury, yet its molecular mechanisms remain unclear.To identify molecular signatures of 2 recovery groups characterised by persistent moderate/severe and minimal symptoms in WADII using RNA-sequencing of blood samples 6 months postinjury.We performed bulk transcriptional analyses on blood samples collected from the primary cohort of individuals with WADII 6 months postinjury (n = 15/recovery group). Findings were replicated through meta-analyses using an independent cohort of chronic WAD. Blood cellular composition was estimated via deconvolution analyses across both cohorts.Although there were no differentially expressed genes between recovery groups, we identified sex-specific gene expression signatures of recovery. In the primary WADII cohort, HLA-DQA1, HEBP1, and NECTIN2 showed lower expression in females with moderate/severe symptoms compared with minimal symptoms. SLC12A1 and MXRA7 showed lower expression in males with moderate/severe pain, whereas HLA-G was upregulated. Gene expression meta-analysis in females identified 6 differentially expressed genes, including replication of lower HLA-DQA1 expression from the primary cohort. There were no differentially expressed genes in the meta-analyses in males or between recovery groups. Deconvolution analyses revealed diverging trends between sexes for blood cell types and whiplash symptom severity scores. Ligand-receptor pair analyses further suggested distinct sex-specific recovery trajectories.Transcriptional profiling revealed sex-specific molecular blood signatures associated with persistent whiplash symptoms 6 months postinjury. Future research is needed to further characterise sex-specific mechanisms after whiplash injury to improve prognosis and targeted management strategies.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. on behalf of The International Association for the Study of Pain.
It has been hypothesized that age‑related declines in skeletal muscle and vascular function in females may be partly estrogen‑dependent. This study investigated skeletal muscle protein expression of estrogen receptor α (ERα), estrogen receptor β (ERβ), and G protein-coupled estrogen receptor 1 (GPER1), and their association with proteins involved in redox regulation and vascular function, in relation to age, menopausal status, and lifelong physical activity. Skeletal muscle biopsies were obtained from 107 healthy females aged 19-70 years, including 26 postmenopausal females who were lifelong exercise trained. Protein expression of ERα, ERβ, GPER1, and downstream redox‑ and vascular‑related proteins was quantified. Age‑ and menopause‑related differences, associations between protein targets, and effects of lifelong exercise were examined. ERα protein expression was lower in older females with a 48% lower expression in the ≥ 55 years age group compared with the < 30-year group. GPER1 protein expression was 22% lower across all older age groups compared with the < 30-year group. ERβ expression was reduced in mid‑life (45-59 years) but not in the oldest age group. Both ERα and ERβ were positively correlated with endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) expression, whereas GPER1 showed no association with eNOS. ERβ expression was associated with pro‑oxidative NOX2 expression. Aging in females is associated with a lower ERα and GPER1 protein expression in skeletal muscle. Furthermore, lower ER expression by aging is associated with a lower eNOS expression, indicating associations with proteins involved in nitric oxide-related redox regulation in skeletal muscle in aged females.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study investigated the effects of BPAF on the indicators related to inflammatory response and explored the roles of G protein estrogen membrane receptor 1 (GPER1) in this process. The results found that BPAF promoted the secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as IL-1β, IL-8 and TNF-α, increased the protein expression of IL-1β and IL-6, and upregulated the relative mRNA levels of inflammatory related genes in Jurkat cells. In vivo SD rat experiments also found that BPAF exposure significantly upregulated the levels of serum inflammatory cytokines, elevated the relative mRNA expression of inflammatory related genes in immune organs, and induced the damage of immune organs. In addition, BPAF upregulated the protein expression of GPER1 and elevated the relative mRNA levels of PI3K, AKT and MAPKs genes in Jurkat cells. GPER1 inhibitor G15 suppressed the upregulation of MAPK3, PI3K and AKT genes and concurrently inhibited the relative mRNA levels of inflammatory response genes, indicating that GPER1 activates the PI3K/AKT and MAPK signaling pathways and that this activation contributes to BPAF-induced inflammatory response at the transcriptional level. Molecular docking further confirmed that BPAF directly binds to GPER1. These results suggest that BPAF induces immunotoxicity by activating GPER1-mediated PI3K/AKT and MAPK signaling pathways.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
This study investigated the preliminary role of γ-oryzanol (γ-O) against breast cancer through computational and in vitro analyses. Reference protein set (RPS) and functional enrichment set (FES) proteins were identified and subjected to network pharmacology. Pharmacogenomics analysis assessed expression profiles and survival associations. Molecular docking of γ-O with PIK3CA, AKT1, AKR1C3, ESR1, and MAPK1 was performed, followed by molecular dynamics (MD) simulation of the γ-O-PIK3CA complex. Brine shrimp lethality assay (BSLA) evaluated the effect of γ-O on nauplii survival and percentage lethality. Allium cepa root tip assay (ACARTA) assessed the effect of γ-O in number and length of roots. Cell viability assay evaluated MCF-7 cell viability after γ-O treatment. Target validation and network pharmacology suggested the relevance of RPS and FES with cancer-associated pathways. Pharmacogenomics analysis highlighted FES overexpression with reduced survival associations and cancer progression. Molecular docking predicted interaction of γ-O with PIK3CA (- 9.1 kcal/mol), AKT1 (- 7.2 kcal/mol), AKR1C3 (- 12.3 kcal/mol), ESR1 (- 8.3 kcal/mol), and MAPK1 (- 8.9 kcal/mol). MD simulation indicated the stability of γ-O-PIK3CA complex. γ-O treatment significantly (P-value < 0.05) reduced nauplii survival and increased percentage lethality. The number and length of roots reduced significantly (P-value < 0.05) in γ-O-treated roots. γ-O produced a significant (P-value < 0.05) concentration-dependent reduction in cell viability (half-maximal inhibitory concentration = 352.57 ± 48.51 µg/mL). BSLA, ACRTA, and cell viability assay demonstrated preliminary cytotoxic, anti-mitotic, and anti-proliferative effects of γ-O, aligned with computational target and interaction analyses. Further studies are required to validate its mechanistic relevance against breast cancer.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
ObjectiveTo investigate whether naringin enhances the chemosensitivity of nasopharyngeal carcinoma-derived CNE2 cells to paclitaxel and identify potential molecular mediators.MethodsCNE2 cells were treated with naringin alone or in combination with paclitaxel, cisplatin, or 5-fluorouracil. Cell viability, proliferation, and migration were assessed using cell counting kit-8 and Transwell assays. Transcriptomic profiling followed by bioinformatic analysis of Gene Expression Omnibus datasets (GSE53819, GSE12452, and GSE102349) was performed to identify nasopharyngeal carcinoma prognosis-related genes. AKR1C3 overexpression was established via lentiviral transduction, and pharmacological inhibition was performed using ASP9521. mRNA and protein expression were validated using reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction and Western blot analysis.ResultsNaringin (160 μM) demonstrated a trend toward reducing the half-maximal inhibitory concentration of paclitaxel from 10.52 to 8.04 nM; however, it did not significantly alter sensitivity to cisplatin or 5-fluorouracil. Combined treatment with 2 nM paclitaxel and 160 μM naringin synergistically suppressed CNE2 proliferation and migration compared with that using either agent alone (p < 0.05). Bioinformatic analysis revealed that high AKR1C3 expression was correlated with improved survival in patients with nasopharyngeal carcinoma (p < 0.05), whereas high PAIP1, PRKDC, PTPRR, and COL12A1 expressions were correlated with poorer outcomes. Reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction confirmed that both naringin and paclitaxel upregulated AKR1C3 mRNA, with the combination producing the strongest effect. Gain-of-function studies demonstrated that AKR1C3 overexpression significantly enhanced paclitaxel sensitivity, with half-maximal inhibitory concentration values decreasing from 13.63 to 6.994 nM in CNE2 cells and from 8.534 to 4.668 nM in CNE1 cells. Furthermore, the specific AKR1C3 inhibitor, ASP9521, significantly attenuated the synergistic anti-proliferative and anti-migratory effects of paclitaxel + naringin in CNE2 cells, confirming that naringin enhances chemosensitivity to paclitaxel by upregulating AKR1C3 expression.ConclusionsNaringin sensitizes CNE2 cells to paclitaxel, potentially via AKR1C3 upregulation. This flavonoid may represent a low-toxicity adjunct to enhance the efficacy of paclitaxel in nasopharyngeal carcinoma.
Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) shows extensive lineage plasticity and early metastatic dissemination, but the oncogenic events that actively drive these processes remain poorly defined. Here, we identify coordinated PRKCI and ECT2 copy number gain, present in approximately 30% of human LUADs, as a driver of developmental reprogramming and metastasis. Using a genetically engineered mouse model that recapitulates PRKCI-ECT2 gain in Kras/Trp53-driven LUAD, we show that elevated PKCι-ECT2 signaling rewires tumor trajectory in a cell-of-origin-dependent manner. Alveolar type II cell-derived tumors dedifferentiate into a distal SOX9high progenitor-like state associated with aggressive growth and liver metastasis, whereas club cell-derived tumors transition into a foregut SOX2high progenitor-like state that supports lineage infidelity and histological transformation. Human LUAD analyses support these progenitor programs as clinically relevant features of PRKCI-ECT2 gain.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Small molecule-drug conjugates (SMDCs) represent an emerging prodrug strategy for precision targeted therapy. In this study, we developed a series of cathepsin B (CTSB)-activated SMDCs targeting Aldo-keto reductase family 1 member C3 (AKR1C3). Among these conjugates, SM-27 was identified as the optimized compound, which exhibited excellent inhibitory activity against AKR1C3 with an inhibitory concentration value of 9 ± 2 nM and could efficiently release the payload gemcitabine under the mediation of CTSB. The antitumor activity of SM-27 was dually dependent on the expression of AKR1C3 and CTSB, allowing it to precisely recognize and eliminate tumor cells with low toxicity to normal cells. In vivo xenograft tumor assays with SM-27 showed significantly superior tumor inhibitory efficacy to gemcitabine with markedly lower off-target toxicity. In conclusion, this study proposes a novel design strategy for SMDCs targeting AKR1C3, which provides a highly promising research approach to address the off-target issue in chemotherapy.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42468210 is a review article
Hypercholesterolemia (HCh) represents a prevalent comorbidity in patients with diabetic foot ulcers (DFUs), frequently exacerbating wound recalcitrance, yet the mechanisms linking systemic lipid perturbation to local immune dysregulation remain poorly defined. Here, we applied an integrated transcriptomic and machine learning approach to explore the molecular basis of this comorbidity. Initial analyses identified 70 shared DEGs between DFUs and HCh, primarily enriched in pathways related to lipid homeostasis disruption and inflammatory cascade activation. Subsequently, a four-algorithm machine learning pipeline highlighted AKR1C3 and CLIC3 as candidate diagnostic biomarkers, both consistently downregulated across disease states and supported by independent external validation cohorts (AUC = 0.779 and 0.920). Immune deconvolution further indicated a dysregulated microenvironment featuring sustained innate immune activation alongside adaptive immune impairment, which correlated with reduced AKR1C3 and CLIC3 expression. Drug repurposing analyses proposed that pirfenidone and statins might attenuate this pathological transcriptomic signature, while molecular docking simulations suggested stable binding of exemestane and indomethacin to AKR1C3 (binding energies: -8.0 and -7.3 kcal/mol, respectively). Collectively, these findings suggest that AKR1C3 and CLIC3 act as molecular bridges linking the TGF-β/lipid metabolism axis to local immune dysfunction, offering a rationale for early risk stratification and targeted drug repurposing in DFUs-HCh comorbidity.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42437555 is a review article
Hyperandrogenism during childhood is a key feature of several pediatric endocrine disorders, including premature adrenarche and polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). The adrenal gland contributes significantly to circulating androgens, yet the regulation of adrenal steroidogenic enzymes during the prepubertal period remains poorly understood. This study aimed to investigate adrenal androgen synthesis in a prepubertal rat model of ovarian removal and identify key enzymes responsible for hyperandrogenism.Female Sprague-Dawley rats underwent either ovariectomy or sham surgery on postnatal day (PND) 15. Serum steroid hormone levels were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Adrenal tissue was analyzed by RNA sequencing to screen for differentially expressed genes (DEGs) involved in steroidogenesis; findings were subsequently validated by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR), western blot, and immunohistochemistry (IHC). The functional role of a candidate gene in steroid synthesis was assessed through in vitro overexpression and in vivo pharmacological inhibition.Serum testosterone levels increased on PND 25 and 30 after ovariectomy, whereas dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) concentrations decreased. Transcriptomic analysis revealed that adrenal AKR1C3 was the most significantly DEG between OVX and sham-operated controls. Its expression was elevated in OVX rats from PND 25 to PND 30, as confirmed by qPCR, western blot, and IHC. In vitro, AKR1C3 overexpression converted exogenous androstenedione to testosterone. Conversely, in vivo administration of the AKR1C3 inhibitor ASP9521 (2 mg/kg.day) to OVX rats reduced serum testosterone levels. Additionally, adrenal expression of CYP17A1, another key enzyme in androgen biosynthesis, was also increased in OVX rats from PND 25 to 30.This study demonstrates that prepubertal ovarian removal upregulates adrenal AKR1C3 and CYP17A1, leading to enhanced adrenal androgen synthesis and systemic hyperandrogenism. These findings provide mechanistic insights into adrenal-derived hyperandrogenism with potential clinical implications for pediatric endocrine disorders such as premature adrenarche and PCOS.© AME Publishing Company.
Biaoxu Ganmao Granules (BXGG) is used clinically for wind-cold syndrome; however, its effects on cyclophosphamide (CTX)-induced immunosuppression and the associated pharmacological basis remain incompletely characterized.Two mouse cohorts were used to evaluate BXGG and paeoniflorin in a CTX-induced immunosuppression model. Body weight, thymus and spleen indices, splenic histopathology, serum cytokines, and peripheral blood cell counts were assessed. Ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography-quadrupole time-of-flight tandem mass spectrometry (UHPLC-QTOF-MS/MS), network pharmacology, and molecular docking were used to characterize BXGG constituents, blood-absorbed constituents, and putative targets. Paeoniflorin was selected as a representative blood-absorbed constituent for preliminary in vivo validation, and proteins related to the toll-like receptor 4/nuclear factor kappa B (TLR4/NF-κB) pathway were examined by Western blotting.BXGG partially reversed CTX-associated reductions in body weight, thymus and spleen indices. It also partially restored serum interleukin-2 (IL-2), interleukin-4 (IL-4), and interferon-gamma (IFN-γ) levels, and white blood cell (WBC), lymphocyte (LYMPH), platelet (PLT), and reticulocyte (RET) counts. Network analysis and docking prioritized paeoniflorin as a candidate immune-regulatory constituent. Paeoniflorin improved several CTX-impaired immune-related outcomes and decreased TLR4 expression and the phosphorylated inhibitor of κB alpha/inhibitor of κB alpha (p-IκBα/IκBα) and phosphorylated NF-κB p65/NF-κB p65 (p-p65/p65) ratios in spleen tissue.BXGG ameliorated several CTX-induced immunosuppressive changes in mice. Paeoniflorin, selected as a representative absorbed constituent, partially reproduced the immunoprotective phenotype and was associated with attenuation of TLR4/NF-κB activation. The contributions and potential synergy of other absorbed compounds require further investigation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Hepatosteatosis is a common metabolic disorder. Bile acids influence hepatosteatosis, immune function, and incretin secretion. However, whether bile acids mediate hepatosteatosis through these immune or endocrine pathways remain unknown. Here, we identify supplementation with hyodeoxycholic acid (HDCA) in high-fat diet-fed mice increases hepatic iNKT cells and elevates circulating GLP-1, both upregulating fatty acid oxidation genes in a PPARα-dependent manner. Mechanistically, HDCA increases iNKT cells and IFN-γ production that promotes hepatic lipid catabolism, thereby attenuating triglyceride accumulation in wild-type (WT) mice, but not in iNKT cell-deficient (Ja18-/-) and PPARα knockout (Ppara-/-) mice. By contrast, the GLP-1 receptor agonist suppresses high-fat diet-induced steatosis in WT and Ja18-/- mice, but not in Ppara-/- and GLP-1 receptor knockout (Glp1r-/-) mice. Furthermore, anti-steatotic effect of HDCA is nullified in Glp1r-/- mice. Consequently, HDCA alleviates hepatosteatosis through dual mechanisms; an iNKT cell/IFN-γ immunometabolic- and GLP-1-dependent pathways. These findings highlight HDCA as a promising multi-target therapeutic strategy for hepatosteatosis.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Spinal tuberculosis commonly involves the thoracic and lumbar vertebrae, but its clinical differential diagnosis remains challenging. This study included patients with imaging findings suggestive of thoracic or lumbar spinal infection and aims to establish a diagnostic model based on routine laboratory indicators to assist in differentiating thoracolumbar spinal tuberculosis from non-tuberculous spinal infections.Clinical data were consecutively collected from patients whose imaging findings suggested thoracic or lumbar spinal infection. Patients were divided into a thoracolumbar spinal tuberculosis group and a non-tuberculous spinal infection group according to the final diagnosis. Candidate variables included 40 routine clinical laboratory indicators. First, the Boruta algorithm was used to screen all candidate variables. All cases were then randomly divided into a training set and a validation set at a ratio of 7꞉3, with 70% of cases used for model construction and 30% for model validation. In the training set, the variables selected by the Boruta method were further analyzed using logistic regression to identify independent diagnostic variables with statistical significance and clinical interpretability. An auxiliary differential diagnostic model for thoracolumbar spinal tuberculosis was then constructed based on the final variables included in the model. A nomogram was further developed to visually present the contribution of each predictor to the diagnostic outcome in the form of scores. Receiver operating characteristic curves and the area under the curve were used to evaluate the discriminative ability of the model in the training and validation sets, and the diagnostic performance of the model was internally validated using the validation set. Calibration analysis and decision curve analysis were also performed to evaluate the consistency between predicted probabilities and actual diagnostic results, as well as the potential clinical net benefit of the model.A total of 275 patients with thoracolumbar spinal infection were included, comprising 104 patients in the tuberculosis group and 171 patients in the non-tuberculous group. The Boruta method selected 11 variables from the 40 candidate variables: Interferon-γ release assay, Mycobacterium tuberculosis antibody, red blood cell count, hemoglobin, lymphocyte count, monocyte percentage, high-density lipoprotein, D-dimer, C-reactive protein, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, and activated partial thromboplastin time. A model was then established using Logistic regression. Five variables with significant differences, namely high-density lipoprotein, tuberculosis antibody, monocyte percentage, lymphocyte count, and interferon-γ release assay, were used to construct the nomogram. Each variable can be converted into a corresponding score according to its value, and the total score can be used to estimate the predicted probability of thoracolumbar spinal tuberculosis. The model showed good discriminative ability in the training set, with an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve of 0.877. It maintained stable diagnostic performance in the validation set, with an area under the curve of 0.875, suggesting good internal validation performance and certain generalizability. Calibration analysis showed good agreement between the predicted probabilities and actual diagnostic results. Decision curve analysis demonstrated that, within a certain range of threshold probabilities, the model provided higher clinical net benefit than the simple assumption that all patients had thoracolumbar spinal tuberculosis or that all patients had non-tuberculous spinal infection, indicating its incremental value for clinical differential diagnosis.Five routine laboratory indicators, namely high-density lipoprotein, tuberculosis antibody, monocyte percentage, lymphocyte count, and interferon-γ release assay, can be used to construct an auxiliary differential diagnostic model for thoracolumbar spinal tuberculosis. This model has significant net benefit and good ability to distinguish thoracolumbar spinal tuberculosis from non-tuberculous spinal infection. It has potential application value as an auxiliary differential diagnostic model before etiological results become available.
This study aims to report a case of tuberculosis involving central nervous system (CNS) discovered thanks to tubercular endophathlmitis.This is a case report.A 14-year-old male presented with acute visual loss, ocular pain, and redness of the right eye following a recent stay in India. The clinical history was notable for prolonged fever, night sweats, and headache. Ophthalmological examination revealed severe intraocular inflammation consistent with panuveitis and endophthalmitis. Neuroimaging demonstrated a large ring-enhancing lesion in the right hemisphere with significant mass effect. Initial microbiological investigations, including vitreous sampling, were negative. A positive interferon-gamma release assay and radiological findings raised suspicion for disseminated tuberculosis, and Mycobacterium tuberculosis DNA was subsequently detected in vitreous samples after repeating a second vitrectomy. Antitubercular therapy was started and definitive diagnosis was made with biopsy of the brain lesion, which demonstrated positive cultures for drug-sensitive M. tuberculosis. The clinical course was complicated by retinal detachment, paradoxical enlargement of the cerebral tuberculoma, and postoperative neurological deficits requiring surgical intervention and rehabilitation.This case highlights the diagnostic complexity of ocular and CNS tuberculosis and emphasizes the need for a high index of suspicion, repeated targeted sampling, and multidisciplinary management to achieve timely diagnosis and appropriate treatment.Copyright © 2026 Nicola De Santi et al. Case Reports in Ophthalmological Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Chronic brucellosis may lead to persistent symptoms and multisystem complications, but objective markers for identifying patients at high risk of chronic progression remain lacking. This study investigated the association between pre-treatment interferon-gamma (IFN-γ) levels and chronic progression in brucellosis.This single-center retrospective study included patients diagnosed with brucellosis at the General Hospital of Ningxia Medical University between January 2021 and June 2025. The primary outcome was progression to chronic brucellosis. Logistic regression was used to assess the association between pre-treatment IFN-γ levels and chronic progression risk. Restricted cubic spline (RCS) and subgroup analyses were performed to examine the dose-response relationship and the robustness of the findings. Candidate predictors were selected using complementary statistical and feature-selection approaches, and an exploratory baseline model was constructed to assess whether IFN-γ provided incremental predictive information.Multivariable logistic regression showed that pre-treatment IFN-γ levels were independently and inversely associated with chronic progression risk. In the fully adjusted model, this association remained consistent when IFN-γ was analyzed as a continuous variable, a tertile-based categorical variable, or a binary variable using the cutoff derived from RCS analysis, supporting the robustness of the findings. RCS analysis demonstrated a significant nonlinear inverse association between IFN-γ levels and chronic progression risk, with an inflection point around 13.47. Subgroup analyses showed that this association was generally consistent across age, sex, exposure history, occupation, and comorbidity strata. Adding IFN-γ to the baseline model produced a modest but statistically significant increase in discrimination, with the AUC increasing from 0.855 (95% CI: 0.795-0.915) and 0.894 (95% CI: 0.847-0.942; ΔAUC = 0.039; P = 0.021). Improvements in net reclassification improvement (NRI) and integrated discrimination improvement (IDI) were also observed.Higher pre-treatment IFN-γ levels were independently associated with a lower risk of chronic progression in patients with acute brucellosis. IFN-γ may serve as a promising exploratory biomarker for early risk stratification of chronic progression in brucellosis. However, the prediction model was not validated, and its clinical utility requires confirmation in multicenter prospective cohorts.Copyright © 2026 Yuan, Chen, Fei, Gu, Ma and Ding.
Drug-resistant tuberculosis (DR-TB) is associated with low treatment success rates and increased mortality. Household contacts (HHCs) face an elevated risk of infection and disease progression due to prolonged exposure. Consequently, systematic screening and tuberculosis preventive treatment (TPT) are critical to interrupt transmission within households. However, screening practices and TPT regimens vary substantially across countries and settings worldwide, and the available evidence remains fragmented. This study aims to synthesize evidence on screening strategies and TPT regimens for HHCs of patients with DR-TB, identify implementation barriers and research gaps, and inform future contact management approaches.We systematically searched nine databases including PubMed, Embase, and Web of Science. Each database was searched from inception to November 13, 2025. Eligible studies included observational studies (including cohort and cross-sectional studies), implementation studies, and randomized controlled trials reporting on screening approaches or TPT strategies among HHCs of patients with DR-TB. Data extraction was conducted in accordance with the Joanna Briggs Institute (JBI) methodological framework for scoping reviews, and reporting followed the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses for Scoping Reviews (PRISMA-ScR) guidelines. Two reviewers independently extracted data using a standardized form, including study characteristics, screening strategies, diagnostic methods, TPT regimens, safety and adherence outcomes, and implementation-related factors. The findings were summarized descriptively and presented as a structured narrative synthesis organized by thematic domains.A total of 26 studies were included. Most studies (20/26) employed a sequential cascade screening strategy combining symptom assessment, imaging evaluation (when clinically indicated), and molecular or microbiological confirmation, often supplemented by tuberculin skin test (TST) or interferon-gamma release assays (IGRAs) for latent tuberculosis infection (LTBI) detection. Most studies were conducted in high TB burden low- and middle-income countries, particularly in Pakistan, South Africa, and China, with several multicenter studies spanning countries in Africa, Asia, and Latin America. Pediatric studies frequently incorporated gastric aspiration as an adjunct diagnostic method. TPT was implemented in 14 studies, with initiation rates ranging from 2% to 98.8%. Levofloxacin-based regimens were the predominant preventive treatment strategy. Compared with combination regimens, levofloxacin monotherapy generally achieved higher treatment completion rates (68.4%-100% vs. 56%-70.3%). Children experienced fewer adverse events than adults (10% vs. 37%). Frequently reported implementation barriers included resource limitations, transportation difficulties, stigma, and poor treatment adherence.Screening and TPT for HHCs of patients with DR-TB were commonly implemented using sequential cascade screening approaches and levofloxacin-based preventive treatment regimens across diverse settings. Included studies generally reported acceptable treatment completion and safety outcomes, particularly for levofloxacin-based monotherapy, although implementation outcomes varied substantially across regions and populations. Resource limitations, stigma, transportation difficulties, and poor adherence were frequently reported as barriers to implementation. Given the substantial heterogeneity in study design, screening strategies, and implementation contexts, findings should be interpreted cautiously. Further research is needed to improve evidence on standardized screening approaches, regimen effectiveness, and implementation feasibility across different settings, particularly among high-risk populations such as young children and people living with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).Not applicable.© 2026. The Author(s).
To establish a plaque immune microenvironment classification system and explore whether multimodal ultrasound may aid in the non-invasive identification of high-risk subtypes.This exploratory study investigated the association between PCA-derived immune subtypes and multimodal ultrasound features.This prospective study included 50 patients undergoing carotid endarterectomy (CEA). Seven immunohistochemistry (IHC) markers: interleukin-6 (IL-6), tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interferon-γ (IFN-γ), IL-2, cluster of differentiation 11b (CD11b), myeloperoxidase (MPO), and microvessel density (MVD) were assessed. Principal component analysis (PCA) and hierarchical clustering defined immune subtypes. Preoperative conventional ultrasound and contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) evaluated vulnerability score, plaque thickness, and intraplaque neovascularization (IPN) grade.Hierarchical clustering revealed three functional modules: core pro-inflammatory (TNF-α, IL-6, IL-2, IFN-γ), angiogenesis-macrophage (CD11b, MVD), and MPO-alone. PCA classified 50 plaques into four subtypes: Type I (inflammation-dominated, n=8), Type II (angiogenesis-dominated, n=14), Type III (high inflammation and high angiogenesis, n=11), and Type IV (stable, n=17). Type III plaques had highest inflammatory factors and MVD, with 45.5% experiencing recent ischemic events. Ultrasound vulnerability score correlated with IL-6 (r=0.54) and MVD (r=0.52); IPN grade correlated strongly with MVD (r=0.69). Type III showed a "high-risk triad": high vulnerability score (median 5.0), increased thickness (0.45 cm), and high IPN grade (45.5% grade 3). Type II had isolated high IPN grade (71.4% ≥ grade 2).PCA-based immune subtyping of carotid plaques appears feasible. Multimodal ultrasound, particularly vulnerability score and IPN grade, may aid in the non-invasive identification of high-risk subtypes, suggesting a potential imaging strategy for plaque risk stratification.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The tumor microbiota critically shapes responses to immunotherapy; however, the mechanisms by which specific microbial species drive immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) resistance in gastric cancer (GC) remain poorly defined.Streptococcus anginosus enrichment was assessed in ICB-unresponsive GC tissues from patients and multiple preclinical models. Orthotopic, subcutaneous, and germ-free mono-colonized mouse models were employed to evaluate the impact of S. anginosus on antitumor immunity and programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) blockade efficacy. Integrated multi-omics analyses were performed to identify microbiota-derived metabolites, and mechanistic studies investigated their effects on CD8+ T-cell function. Therapeutic targeting of integrin α2 (ITGA2) was tested to assess restoration of cytotoxic T-cell activity and sensitization to PD-1 blockade.S. anginosus was markedly enriched in ICB-non-responsive GC tissues. Colonization with S. anginosus impaired antitumor immunity and promoted PD-1 blockade resistance by suppressing CD8+ T-cell effector function. Multi-omics analyses identified kynurenic acid (KA) as a microbiota-derived metabolite selectively enriched following S. anginosus colonization. KA induced ITGA2 expression and inhibited an mTOR-dependent signaling cascade, sustaining cathepsin V expression and attenuating interferon-γ and granzyme B production in CD8+ T cells. Therapeutic inhibition of ITGA2 restored CD8+ T-cell cytotoxicity and sensitized tumors to PD-1 blockade.A microbiota-metabolite-immune signaling axis involving S. anginosus, KA, and ITGA2 drives immunotherapy resistance in GC. Therapeutic inhibition of ITGA2 represents a potential strategy to overcome ICB resistance in GC.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
The gut microbiota influences colorectal cancer (CRC) progression, primarily through the secretion of small molecule metabolites. While numerous microbial products are known to drive CRC, endogenous protective mechanisms remain largely uncharacterized. Utilizing a folate metabolomics platform, we demonstrate that the healthy gut microbiota produces folinic acid (FA), a known chemotherapeutic adjuvant also known as leucovorin. This microbially derived folinic acid is progressively depleted in mouse models of colitis-associated CRC and in human clinical metagenomic cohorts with advancing disease severity. Mechanistically, folinic acid acts as a signaling molecule that directly binds and inhibits the intracellular protease calpain-2. This interaction stabilizes epithelial E-cadherin protein expression and suppresses CRC epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition driving metastasis. Genetically manipulating gut microbial production of FA is sufficient to modulate CRC in vivo, even in the presence of chronic inflammation. This study reframes folinic acid from a chemotherapeutic enhancer to an endogenous microbial metabolite that actively suppresses CRC progression.
Despite the availability of effective antimalarial drugs, cerebral malaria (CM) remains one of the deadliest manifestations of malaria and is associated with high mortality and severe neurological sequelae. The World Health Organization (WHO) has taken an initiative for reduction of 90% malaria case incidence and death rates by 90% by 2030 with respect to the 2015 baseline. To address this challenge ,we have studied the effect of mangiferin in combination with primaquine on a mouse model of CM by infecting with Plasmodium berghei ANKA (PbA), a homolog of Plasmodium falciparum in humans. Treatment with a single dose of primaquine (40 mg/kg) reduced parasitemia and markedly decreased circulating gametocyte levels, highlighting its effectiveness in limiting transmission. However, primaquine alone failed to ameliorate PbA-induced cerebral pathology. In contrast, mangiferin (100 mg/kg) provided substantial neuroprotection and improved brain pathology but had a comparatively limited effect on gametocyte burden. Mechanistic analyses revealed that mangiferin attenuated NF-κB activation and downstream inflammatory signaling, thereby reducing endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and intracellular calcium overload. This was associated with decreased activation of calpains (calpain-1 and calpain-2), inhibition of mitochondrial dysfunction, reduced cytochrome-c release, and suppression of apoptosis. So, these findings suggest that the primaquine-mangiferin combination can offer a promising strategy for simultaneously reducing malaria transmission and protecting against CM-associated brain injury.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
Calpains are involved in regulating various brain functions. Limited proteolysis regulates cell proliferation, apoptosis, synaptic plasticity, long-term potentiation, and cell signaling. These are only some of the processes regulated by calpains. The current study reveals previously unexplored states of calpain activation associated with disorders of the dopaminergic system, including both hyperfunctional and hypofunctional states. In addition, activation of calpain 1 and calpain 2 affects the functioning of the central nervous system differently. Thus, this work aimed to study the effect of dopamine deficiency or excess on the activity of calpain 1 and calpain 2 in various parts of the central nervous system. We used L-dopa administration and DAT-KO rats to model a hyperdopaminergic state, and AMPT and reserpine to model a hypodopaminergic state. Dopamine deficiency causes: increased activity of calpain 1 in the striatum after AMPT administration; decreased activity of calpain 2 in the hippocampus after L-dopa administration. Excess dopamine causes: increased activity of calpains 1 and 2 in the striatum after L-dopa administration; decreased activity of calpains 1 and 2 in the midbrain after reserpine administration. Our data show that DAT knockout is associated with increased dopamine levels and increased activity of calpain 2 in the hippocampus, as well as decreased dopamine levels in the striatum and in the midbrain, accompanied by increased calpain 1 activity in the striatum.
Ethanol affects lipid metabolism through multiple pathways, leading to fatty liver development in most alcohol-related liver disease (ALD) patients. Recent studies have highlighted the role of calpain, a calcium-dependent protease, in liver inflammation and fibrosis. Calpain activity is regulated by its essential subunit, Capns1 (calpain-4), which stabilizes and modulates the activity of its catalytic isoforms, calpain-1 and calpain-2. This study investigated calpain's impact on lipid metabolism in ALD.Six-week-old C57Bl6/J mice were injected with rAAV8 vectors encoding Capns1 shRNA or control vectors. After 4 weeks, mice underwent a 10-day period of ad libitum ethanol consumption, followed by a single gavaged ethanol administration on day 11.Capns1 knockdown attenuated ethanol-induced microvesicular steatosis. Hepatic triglyceride and free fatty acid levels were not significantly altered, whereas cholesterol levels were significantly reduced in the ethanol group with Capns1 knockdown. Cpt1a expression increased significantly in the ethanol group with Capns1 knockdown. Western blot analysis revealed increased Cleaved-3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl-coenzyme A reductase (HMGCR) to Pro-HMGCR ratio in Capns1-knockdown mice, suggesting reduced HMGCR activity and suppressed cholesterol biosynthesis. LXRα expression was mainly increased in the cytoplasm in the ethanol group, and following Capns1 knockdown, it was relocalized to the nucleus via its activation. In addition, RNA sequencing analysis indicated that Capns1 knockdown contributes to the reprogramming of ethanol-induced disruptions in metabolic pathways, primarily those involving cholesterol metabolism.Further investigation into the relationship between Capns1 and cholesterol biosynthesis proteins may provide insights into using calpain inhibitors as a therapeutic approach for alcohol-related liver disease.© 2026 The Author(s). Alcohol, Clinical and Experimental Research published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Research Society on Alcohol.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565567 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565029 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42564199 is a review article
Phenolic compounds are recognized for antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and antidiabetic properties. Lentils are abundant in these compounds, yet comparative studies across varieties and intestinal cells effects remain limited. This study evaluated the nutritional composition, phenolic profile, antioxidant activity, and α-glucosidase inhibition of four lentil types in raw and cooked forms. L01 had the highest bioactive potential and was the only one selected for further evaluation in Caco-2 cells under basal and IL-1β-stimulated conditions. Cooking altered composition, leading to higher protein, fiber, and carbohydrates, reducing tannins, and maintaining high phytic acid in some varieties. L01 consistently showed the highest phenolic content, antioxidant activity, and enzyme inhibition. Its phenolic profile was dominated by kaempferol derivatives, (epi)catechin, and procyanidins, with cooking increasing monomeric catechins but reducing procyanidin oligomers. At noncytotoxic levels, L01 extracts reduced IL-6/8 secretion in stimulated cells, with stronger effects from raw extracts. Additionally, they decreased expression of inflammatory markers (IL-6/8/1β) while increasing expression of metabolic regulation- and barrier-related genes (Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ, Sirtuin 1, Occludin, and Cadherin-1). Only raw extracts significantly enhanced Heme oxygenase-1 expression under stimulation. These findings highlight compositional differences beyond tegument color and support further investigation of phenolic-rich lentils as potential functional food ingredients targeting gut and metabolic health.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Doxorubicin (DOX) is a potent chemotherapeutic agent whose antitumor benefits are limited by a well-recognized, dose-dependent cardiotoxicity. While previous studies have implicated inflammatory pathways in DOX-induced cardiomyopathy (DIC), the role of CCR2 in this process remains incompletely defined. This study aims to investigate whether CCR2 deficiency confers cardioprotection against DIC and to uncover the molecular mechanisms involved.CCR2 knockout (CCR2⁻/⁻ ) mouse was subjected to both acute and chronic DIC models. Bone marrow transplantation was used to establish the functional contribution of CCR2-deficient macrophages. Autophagic flux was evaluated using complementary approaches, including a tandem mRFP-GFP-LC3 reporter, western blotting, immunofluorescence, and transmission electron microscopy. The mediator linking CCR2-deficient macrophages to cardiomyocytes was identified by proteomics and validated using recombinant IL12B protein and a neutralizing antibody.CCR2 deficiency substantially improved cardiac function, as evidenced by preserved left ventricular ejection fraction, fractional shortening and reduced serum cardiac injury markers. Mechanistic studies revealed that CCR2⁻/⁻ hearts exhibited enhanced autophagic flux, with increased LC3B lipidation, autophagosome formation, and clearance of damaged cellular components. Proteomic profiling of cardiac macrophages identified interleukin-12B (IL12B) significantly upregulated in CCR2⁻/⁻ mouse. Recombinant IL12B protein administration activated cardiomyocyte autophagy through PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway inhibition and reproduced the cardioprotective effects in WT mouse. Conversely, IL12B neutralization completely abolished CCR2 deficiency-mediated protection.Our findings identify a novel CCR2-IL12B-autophagy axis that critically regulates DOX-induced cardiotoxicity. CCR2 deficiency promotes IL12B secretion from cardiac macrophages, which directly activates protective autophagy in cardiomyocytes. These results establish CCR2 inhibition and IL12B supplementation as two promising therapeutic strategies to prevent chemotherapy-induced cardiomyopathy, providing a transformative approach to cardio-oncology.© The author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558249 is a review article
Atherosclerosis is characterized by the buildup of fatty plaques that thicken and stiffen arterial walls. Macrophages (Mφs) significantly contribute to this process through their scavenger receptor CD36. PIM1 is a serine/threonine kinase known to modulate immune responses and cell metabolism. However, its role in Mφ lipid handling and atherogenesis is not well defined. This study examines the role of PIM1 in regulating CD36 expression and function in Mφs during foam cell formation and atherosclerosis progression.We performed in vitro studies by treating murine peritoneal Mφs from Pim1-/- and wild-type mice with oxLDL (oxidized low-density lipoprotein). We measured CD36, PIM1, and plaque-associated proteins and mRNA levels, oxLDL binding and uptake rates, and foam cell formation. For in vivo studies, we fed myeloid-specific Pim1-deficient (Apoe-/-Lyz2Cre/+Pim1fl/fl) and their littermate control (Apoe-/-Pim1fl/fl) mice a high-fat diet for 12 weeks. We then evaluated plaque formation in their aortic sinuses and arches.Deletion of Pim1 in Mφs reduced CD36 protein expression by up to 96.7% compared with wild-type controls. This led to a 49.6% decrease in foam cell formation and a 25.5% reduction in cellular cholesterol after oxLDL treatment. Pharmacological inhibition of PIM kinase activity in wild-type Mφs also impaired oxLDL handling, with a 64.5% reduction in binding and a 57.9% reduction in uptake. Bulk RNA-sequencing revealed that Pim1 deficiency downregulated PPARγ (peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma) signaling. Treatment with a PPARγ agonist restored CD36 levels in the Pim1 knockdown Mφs, suggesting that PIM1 regulates CD36 through PPARγ. Moreover, Pim1 myeloid-specific deficiency caused a 69.4% reduction in atherosclerotic plaque formation.PIM1 acts as a key upstream regulator of CD36 by enhancing PPARγ activity in Mφs. The PIM1-CD36 axis promotes oxLDL binding, uptake, and foam cell formation. Targeting the PIM1/PPARγ/CD36 pathway could offer new ways to modulate Mφ lipid metabolism and reduce atherosclerotic plaque progression.
Triphenyl phosphate (TPhP) is a commonly used organophosphorus flame retardant, and its potential health risks to mothers and infants are considerable. Our previous research revealed that gestational TPhP exposure significantly reduces the depth of placental implantation and impairs uterine spiral arteries remodelling, leading to preeclampsia (PE)-like symptoms, but the underlying mechanism remains unclear. In this study, we further demonstrate that TPhP activated the transcription of Phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) by activating peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma (PPARγ). This activation subsequently inhibits the PI3K-AKT-mTOR signaling pathway, modulates autophagy homeostasis, and inhibits the migration and invasion of extravillous trophoblast (EVT) cells. Notably, knockdown of PTEN or PPARγ with shRNA, or inhibition of autophagy with chloroquine (CQ) alleviates the TPhP-induced inhibition of EVT cells migration or invasion. Furthermore, using an established murine intrauterine exposure model, we confirmed that TPhP activates PPARγ, increases PTEN expression in placental trophoblast, inhibits the PI3K-AKT-mTOR signaling pathway and disturbs autophagy homeostasis. Collectively, these findings elucidate that TPhP inhibits EVT cells migration and invasion via the PPARγ-PTEN-PI3K-AKT-mTOR mediated autophagy pathway, providing a new toxicity pathway in placental toxicology. Additionally, this study provides new insights into the etiological research of PE.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42553762 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42552039 is a review article
African swine fever (ASF) is an acute, hemorrhagic, and highly contagious disease caused by African swine fever virus (ASFV), which causes severe economic losses in the swine industry. ASFV has evolved multiple strategies to evade host antiviral immune responses. Here, we report that ASFV pMGF360-3 L promotes host mitophagy by manipulating chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA), thereby inhibiting the production of type I interferon (IFNB/IFN-β). Mechanistically, pMGF360-3 L targets the SKP1 protein via its N-terminal ankyrin (ANK) repeat domain, promoting the degradation of SKP1 through the CMA pathway, which inhibits the proteasomal degradation of BNIP3 to increase its expression level in mitochondria. Subsequently, BNIP3 binds to MAP1LC3B/LC3B to induce mitophagy, a process that leads to the degradation of mitochondria. Notably, the CMA-mediated degradation of SKP1 depends on its K94 site, and the SKP1-BNIP3 axis is critical for pMGF360-3 L-mediated IFNB inhibition. In summary, our study reveals a mechanism through which ASFV pMGF360-3 L facilities CMA-dependent degradation of the E3 complex component SKP1. This stabilizes mitochondrial BNIP3 to initiate mitophagy and block IFNB production. This deepens our understanding of the immune evasion strategies of ASFV and provides potential drug targets for controlling viral infection.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; ASFV: African swine fever virus; BafA1: bafilomycin A1; BNIP3: BCL2 interacting protein 3; CMA: chaperone-mediated autophagy; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CQ: chloroquine; CHX: cycloheximide; CUL1: cullin 1; DAPI: 4', 6-diamidino-2'-phenylindole; EV: emptor vector; FBXL4: F-box and leucine rich repeat protein 4; hpi: hours post-infection; IFNB: interferon beta; ISGs: IFN-stimulated genes; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MG132: cbz-leu-leu-leucinal; MAVS: mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein; MOI: multiplicity of infection; PAMs: porcine alveolar macrophages; PPTC7: protein phosphatase targeting COQ7; RBX1: ring-box 1; RT-PCR: real-time polymerase chain reaction; siRNA: small interfering RNA; SKP1: S-phase kinase associated protein 1; TCID50: 50% tissue culture infectious doses; Ub: ubiquitin; WCL: whole-cell lysate; WT: wild-type.
Acetaminophen (APAP)-induced acute liver injury (AILI) is a prevalent clinical liver condition caused mostly by oxidative stress and mitochondrial damage. Dental pulp stem cells (DPSCs) possess antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and immunomodulatory capabilities, demonstrating significant potential in liver diseases. However, during in vitro culture, they are typically maintained under normoxic conditions (21% O2), which is very different from the hypoxic oxygen level that is found in vivo. It remains unclear whether hypoxic-conditioned dental pulp stem cells (Hyp-DPSCs) exhibit superior therapeutic effects compared to normoxic-conditioned dental pulp stem cells (Nor-DPSCs). This study demonstrated that 24-h exposure to 1% O2 significantly enhanced HIF1A/HIF-1α expression in DPSCs. It promoted mitophagy through the MYC-HIF1A-BNIP3 pathway, enhancing mitochondrial shape and function while reducing oxidative stress in DPSCs. Furthermore, in vitro and in vivo experiments demonstrated that Hyp-DPSCs were far more potent than Nor-DPSCs in boosting the expression of hepatic antioxidant factors and enhancing macroautophagy/autophagy to reduce AILI. These findings revealed that hypoxia activated mitophagy in DPSCs, enhancing their therapeutic efficacy against AILI and providing a novel strategy for stem cell-based AILI treatment.Abbreviations: AILI: acetaminophen-induced acute liver injury; ANOVA: analysis of variance; APAP: acetaminophen; BAX: BCL2 associated X, apoptosis regulator; BCL2: BCL2 apoptosis regulator; BNIP3: BCL2 interacting protein 3; BNIP3L: BCL2 interacting protein 3 like; CASP3: caspase 3; CAT: catalase; CCK-8: cell counting kit-8; CM: conditioned medium; COX4I1: cytochrome c oxidase subunit 4I1; CPT1A: carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1A; CQ: chloroquine; DPSCs: dental pulp stem cells; ELISA: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; GO: Gene Ontology; GOT1/AST: glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase 1; GPT/ALT: glutamic - pyruvic transaminase; GPX4: glutathione peroxidase 4; GSH: glutathione; Hyp-DPSCs: hypoxic-conditioned dental pulp stem cells; H&E: hematoxylin and eosin; HIF1A/HIF-1α: hypoxia inducible factor 1 subunit alpha; HMOX1/HO-1: heme oxygenase 1; HUVECs: human umbilical vein endothelial cells; IF: immunofluorescence; IHC: immunohistochemistry; IL1B/IL-1β: interleukin 1 beta; IL6: interleukin 6; i.p.: intraperitoneally; i.v.: intravenous injection; KEGG: Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MSCs: mesenchymal stem cells; MYC: MYC proto-oncogene, bHLH transcription factor; NAC: N-acetylcysteine; NAPQI: N-acetyl-p-benzoquinone imine; NFE2L2/NRF2: NFE2 like bZIP transcription factor 2; Nor-DPSCs: normoxic-conditioned dental pulp stem cells; PRKN/parkin: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; PLIN2: perilipin 2; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; PPARA/PPARα: peroxisome proliferator activated receptor alpha; PPARG/PPARγ: peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma; ROS: reactive oxygen species; SEM: standard error of the mean; SOD1: superoxide dismutase 1; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TNF/TNF-α: tumor necrosis factor; TOMM20: translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20; VDAC1: voltage dependent anion channel 1; WB: western blot.
Herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) is a globally prevalent pathogen that poses a significant health threat due to its lifelong latency. This persistence is driven by intricate immune evasion mechanisms, the deciphering of which remains a challenge. Here, we identified the HSV-1 tegument protein UL16 as a novel viral immunosuppressive factor, which significantly suppresses the RIGI-like receptor (RLR)-mediated antiviral immunity. We found that UL16 can interact with MAVS (mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein) and induce its degradation, thereby inhibiting type I interferon (IFN-I) production. Further investigation revealed that UL16-induced MAVS degradation was facilitated via mitophagy involving the mitochondrial cargo receptor FUNDC1 (FUN14 domain containing 1). Knockout of FUNDC1 expression completely disrupted UL16-induced MAVS degradation and restricted HSV-1 replication. In contrast, overexpression of FUNDC1 augmented the suppressive effect of UL16 on MAVS-triggered IFN-I signaling and consequently benefited viral replication. Notably, the C-terminal domain (CTD) of UL16 primarily accounted for its immunosuppressive function, which was also demonstrated to be essential for UL16 engagement with MAVS, FUNDC1 and MAP1LC3/LC3 (microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3). A conserved LC3-interacting region (LIR) motif within the UL16 CTD was identified to play a critical role in LC3 recruitment enhancement. Furthermore, the UL16-deficient HSV-1 exhibited markedly attenuated viral infectivity and pathogenicity in vivo. In summary, our findings uncover a previously uncharacterized pathway through which HSV-1 UL16 subverts host immunity by inducing mitophagy. This study provides critical insights into host-pathogen interactions and establishes a rational foundation for developing novel therapeutics against HSV-1 infection.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; BNIP3L/NIX: BCL2 interacting protein 3 like; BSA: bovine serum albumin; CALCOCO2/NDP52: calcium binding and coiled-coil domain 2; CARD: caspase recruitment domain; Cas9: CRISPR-associated system 9; CGAS: cyclic GMP-AMP synthase; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; COX8: cytochrome c oxidase subunit 8; CQ: chloroquine; CRISPR: clustered regulatory interspaced short palindromic repeat; CTD: C-terminal domain; Ctrl: control; CXCL10: C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 10; DAPI: 4,'6-diamidino-2-phenylindole; DMEM: Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium; DMSO: dimethyl sulfoxide; ds: double-stranded; FBS: fetal bovine serum; FUNDC1: FUN14 domain containing 1; GAPDH: glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase; GFP: green fluorescent protein; HEK: human embryonic kidney; HSV-1: herpes simplex virus 1; IAV: influenza A virus; IFIH1/MDA5: interferon induced with helicase C domain 1; IFIT1/ISG56: interferon induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats 1; IFN-I: type I interferon; IgG: Immunoglobulin G; IRF3: interferon regulatory factor 3; ISGs: IFN-stimulated genes; kDa: kilodalton; KO: knockout; KSHV: Kaposi sarcoma-associated herpesvirus; LIR: LC3-interacting region; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MAVS: mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein; Mdivi-1: mitochondrial division inhibitor 1; MG132: cbz-leu-leu-leucinal; MOI: multiplicity of infection; NanoBiT: NanoLuc Binary Technology; NC: negative control; NTD: N-terminal domain; OPTN: optineurin; p-: phosphorylated; PFU: plaque-forming unit; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; poly(I:C): polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid; PRKN/parkin: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; qPCR: quantitative polymerase chain reaction; RIGI/RIG-I: RNA sensor RIG-I; RLR: RIGI-like receptor; SARS-CoV-2: severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2; SeV: Sendai virus; sgRNA: single guide RNA; shRNA: short hairpin RNA; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; STING1: stimulator of interferon response cGAMP interactor 1; TBK1: TANK binding kinase 1; TM: transmembrane; TOMM20: translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20; TRAF: TNF receptor associated factor; TUFM: Tu translation elongation factor, mitochondrial; UL16: unique long region 16; VSV: vesicular stomatitis virus; VZV: varicella zoster virus; WCL: whole-cell lysate; WT: wild-type; Z-VAD-FMK: carbobenzoxy-valyl-alanyl-aspartyl-[O-methyl]-fluoromethylketone.
To confirm the efficacy of Yiqi Huoxue formula (, YQHX) on heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF), and elucidate its potential effect on calcium homeostasis.Cardiac specific calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II delta C isoform (CaMKⅡδC)-overexpression transgenic mice (C-CaMKⅡδC+/- Tg mice) and calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II delta B isoform (CaMKⅡδB)-overexpression transgenic mice (C-CaMKⅡδB+/- Tg mice) were established by clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR)/CRISPR-associated protein 9 technique, and their genotypes and phenotypes were identified thereafter. C57BL/6 mice and transgenic mice were divided into seven groups in random, each containing eight mice. The groups were Control group, CaMKⅡδB model group, CaMKⅡδB treatment group (B Treated), CaMKⅡδB inhibitor group (B Inhibitor), CaMKⅡδC model group (C Model), CaMKⅡδC treatment group (C Treated), CaMKⅡδC inhibitor group (C Inhibitor). B and C Treated groups were given YQHX once a day for 4 weeks by gavage. The cardiac function and structure were evaluated using echocardiogram. The myocardial cellular status and fibrosis were detected by hematoxylin and eosin staining and Masson staining. Calcium transients and calcium leakage from cardiac ventricular myocytes were detected to reflect calcium homeostasis, and the expressions of CaMKⅡδB, CaMKⅡδC, hypertrophy factors, calcium pathway-related genes, and the level of calcium handling proteins were assessed by western blotting and reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction.We found CaMKⅡδB and CaMKⅡδC transgenic mice showed HFrEF phenotype. YQHX improved the systolic function of the CaMKⅡδB transgenic mice, reduced the cross-sectional area of cardiomyocytes, inhibited the overexpression of CaMKⅡδB and hypertrophy-related genes (B-type natriuretic peptide, myocyte enhancer factor 2, and atrial natriuretic factor), and increased calcium handling protein sarcoendoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ adenosine triphosphatase 2a (SERCA2a) and calcium capacity. YQHX improved the cardiac systolic function of CaMKⅡδC transgenic mice, reduced the ventricular diameter and cardiomyocyte cross-sectional area, alleviated myocardial fibrosis, increased SERCA2a expression and calcium capacity, and reduced calcium leakage.Our results suggest that YQHX improved HFrEF by inhibiting CaMKIIδB overexpression, which may be related to reduced expression of hypertrophy-related factors, and increased SERCA2a expression to increase calcium reserve. In addition, YQHX improved HFrEF by inhibiting CaMKIIδC overexpression, which may be related to reduce calcium leakage, and increase SERCA2a expression to increase calcium reserve.
Exosomes derived from bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) represent a promising cell-free strategy for intervertebral disc degeneration (IDD). Here, we obtained oxidative stress-preconditioned exosomes (O-Exos) from BMSCs exposed to low-concentration hydrogen peroxide. Compared with exosomes from untreated cells (N-Exos), O-Exos more effectively delayed nucleus pulposus (NP) cell senescence and attenuated IDD in vitro and in vivo. The superior effects of O-Exos were associated with restoration of mitophagy and improved mitochondrial homeostasis in TNF/TNF-α-treated NP cells. BMF (Bcl2 modifying factor) was identified as a functionally relevant downstream target suppressed by O-Exos, and Bmf deficiency promoted mitophagy and alleviated IDD. Further analyses showed that O-Exos relieved the inhibitory effect of BMF on BCL2L13-LC3B coupling, thereby restoring mitophagy. In addition, exosomal Mir29a-3p was required for BMF suppression and the superior activity of O-Exos. Together, these findings identify oxidative stress preconditioning as an effective strategy to enhance exosome potency against IDD.Abbreviations: ACAN: aggrecan; BCL2L13: BCL2 like 13; BMF: Bcl2 modifying factor; BMSCs: bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells; BNIP3: BCL2 interacting protein 3; CDKN1A: cyclin dependent kinase inhibitor 1A; CDKN2A: cyclin dependent kinase inhibitor 2A; COL2A1: collagen type II alpha 1 chain; DHI: disc height index; FUNDC1: FUN14 domain containing 1; H2O2: hydrogen peroxide; IDD: intervertebral disc degeneration; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MMP3: matrix metallopeptidase 3; MRI: nuclear magnetic resonance imaging; N-Exos: exosomes derived from untreated BMSCs; NP: nucleus pulposus; O-Exos: exosomes derived from H2O2-preconditioned BMSCs; OCR: oxygen consumption rate; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; ROS: reactive oxygen species; RT-qPCR: reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction; SA-GLB1/β-gal: senescence-associated galactosidase beta 1; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TNF/TNF-alpha: tumor necrosis factor; TOMM20: translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20; TP53: tumor protein p53; WT: wild type.
Autophagy is critical for cellular homeostasis and may participate in the pathogenesis of pulpitis, although its underlying mechanisms remain unclear. This study investigated hypoxia-induced autophagy in human dental pulp cells (HDPCs) and its molecular basis.HDPCs were exposed to hypoxic conditions (1% O₂). Cell proliferation, apoptosis, inflammatory cytokine levels, and autophagy markers and autophagic flux were evaluated with or without 3-methyladenine (3-MA) treatment. RNA sequencing was performed to compare healthy and inflamed human dental pulp tissues.Hypoxia significantly inhibited HDPCs proliferation, promoted cell apoptosis, and enhanced the secretion of tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-6, and interleukin-1β. Meanwhile, hypoxia activated autophagic flux, as evidenced by increased autophagosome formation, elevated microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta II (LC3B-II) levels, and reduced sequestosome-1 (SQSTM1/p62) expression; these effects were reversible by 3-MA treatment. Autophagy inhibition exacerbated hypoxic damage to HDPCs, confirming its protective role. RNA- sequencing revealed enrichment of autophagy-related pathways (Mitophagy-animal; Autophagy-animal) in inflamed pulp and identified two core upregulated genes: BCL2 interacting protein 3 pseudogene 11 (BNIP3P11) and cathepsin B (CTSB) were identified.Hypoxia elicits cytoprotective autophagy in HDPCs under pulpitis-associated stress. The BNIP3P11-CTSB axis may regulate autophagic flux and cellular homeostasis, representing a potential therapeutic target for pulpitis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Obesity is recognized as a key contributor to the impaired endometrial receptivity that results in infertility; however, the molecular mechanisms underlying endometrial dysfunction remain incompletely understood. In this study, proteomic and ubiquitination analyses of secretory-phase endometrial tissue revealed a significant upregulation of SNCA/synuclein alpha and dysregulation of macroautophagy/autophagy in women with obesity. SNCA is best known for its role in neurodegenerative protein aggregation disorders. Proteomic and ubiquitination analysis of secretory-phase endometrial tissue revealed a significant upregulation of SNCA and dysregulation of autophagy in women with obesity. This study aimed to elucidate the role and mechanistic basis of SNCA and autophagy in obesity-associated endometrial receptivity defects. We demonstrated that elevated SNCA expression in endometrium and endometrial stromal cells (ESCs) correlated with impaired autophagy and disrupted decidualization in vivo and vitro. Mechanistically, SNCA directly interacted with the E3 ubiquitin ligase STUB1 (STIP1 homology and U-box containing protein 1) in ESCs, thereby disrupting the association between STUB1 and phosphorylated TFEB (transcription factor EB; p-TFEB). This interaction attenuated p‑TFEB degradation, leading to suppressed autophagic flux and ultimately compromised decidualization of ESCs. Conversely, snca knockout alleviated obesity-induced endometrial impairments in mice. Moreover, STUB1 overexpression rescued decidualization and autophagy defects. Notably, metformin intervention restored autophagic activity and endometrial receptivity in obese mice by downregulation of SNCA independent of its autophagy-modulating effects. Together, these findings uncovered a novel pathogenic mechanism in which obesity-driven SNCA overexpression impairs endometrial receptivity by inhibiting STUB1-TFEB-mediated autophagy, positioning the SNCA-STUB1-TFEB axis as a promising therapeutic target for obesity-related endometrial infertility.Abbreviations: BECN1: beclin 1; CCK-8: Cell Counting Kit-8; CQ: chloroquine; DEPs: differentially expressed proteins; DIO: diet-induced obese; ESCs: endometrial stromal cells; FBS: fetal bovine serum; GD7: gestational day 7; GSEA: Gene Set Enrichment Analysis; HFD: high-fat diet; HOXA10: homeobox A10; IGFBP1: insulin like growth factor binding protein 1; IPGTT: intraperitoneal glucose tolerance test; LIF: LIF interleukin 6 family cytokine; PBS: phosphate-buffered saline; PRL: prolactin; Rapa: rapamycin; SNCA/synuclein alpha; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; STUB1: STIP1 homology and U-box containing protein 1; TC: total cholesterol; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TFEB: transcription factor EB; UPS: ubiquitin-proteasome system; WOI: window of implantation.
African swine fever virus (ASFV) primarily invades through the respiratory and intestinal mucosa, where type III interferons (IFN-λ) play a pivotal role in local immunity. However, whether ASFV counteracts this IFN-λ-mediated antiviral defense remains largely unknown. Here, we demonstrate that ASFV infection dampens IFN-λ production, where the viral protein pM448R serves as a suppressor. Mechanistically, pM448R targets interferon regulatory factor 1 (IRF1) for proteasomal degradation by recruiting the E3 ubiquitin ligase STIP1 homology and U box-containing protein 1 (STUB1), which catalyzes K48-linked ubiquitination of IRF1. Moreover, infection with the M448R-deficient ASFV mutant leads to increased IRF1 protein stability and elevated expression of IRF1 target genes, including OAS1, OAS2, and ZBP1. Our findings reveal a novel immune evasion strategy whereby ASFV hijacks the host ubiquitin-proteasome system to degrade IRF1, thereby subverting IRF1-dependent transcriptional programs, including IFN-λ induction, to facilitate mucosal invasion.IMPORTANCEAfrican swine fever virus (ASFV) remains a major threat to the global swine industry. However, how the virus evades mucosal innate immunity at its portal of entry remains poorly understood. The transcription factor IRF1 serves as a central hub in mucosal antiviral defense, coordinating the expression of IFN-λ and numerous other restriction factors. In this study, we identify pM448R as a viral antagonist that directs IRF1 for ubiquitin-mediated degradation, which reveals a novel mechanism by which ASFV destroys the mucosal immune barrier. These findings not only deepen our understanding of viral interference with IRF1-dependent defense pathways, but also provide potential insights for the development of live-attenuated vaccines.
Circadian disruption is linked to colorectal cancer (CRC) progression. We investigated the role of the tumor suppressor N-myc downstream-regulated gene 2 (NDRG2) in this context. Intestinal-specific Ndrg2 knockout exacerbated colorectal tumorigenesis in mice under circadian disruption. We identified NDRG2 as a novel stabilizer of the core clock protein Circadian Locomotor Output Cycles Kaput (CLOCK). Mechanistically, NDRG2 bidirectionally regulates CLOCK ubiquitination, inhibiting its degradation by the E3 ligase STIP1 Homology and U-Box Containing Protein 1 (STUB1) while promoting stabilization by the deubiquitinase Ubiquitin Specific Peptidase 8 (USP8). This NDRG2-CLOCK axis was crucial for oxaliplatin sensitivity. Integrated RNA sequencing and functional studies revealed that CLOCK transcriptionally represses Fibroblast Growth Factor 2 (FGF2), a chemoresistance driver. Thus, NDRG2 enhances CLOCK activity to suppress FGF2 and promote oxaliplatin efficacy. Clinically, oxaliplatin-sensitive CRC tissues showed higher NDRG2/CLOCK co-expression and lower FGF2 levels. Our work defines a pathway wherein NDRG2 inhibits tumorigenesis and chemoresistance by stabilizing CLOCK to transcriptionally represses FGF2, linking circadian regulation to therapy response, and nominating the NDRG2-STUB1/USP8-CLOCK-FGF2 axis as a therapeutic target.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
PINK1 serves as the central regulator of PINK1-PRKN-mediated mitophagy, and its precise regulation is critical for efficient mitochondrial clearance. Although the cleavage of PINK1 and its subsequent degradation via the N-end rule pathway under basal conditions are well understood, how full-length PINK1 stability is regulated following mitochondrial damage has remained elusive. In our recent study, we identified the STUB1-VCP/p97 axis as a mechanism that fine-tunes full-length PINK1 levels during mitophagy. We demonstrate that STUB1 functions as an E3 ubiquitin ligase that catalyzes K48-linked polyubiquitination of full-length PINK1, which is subsequently recognized and extracted by VCP/p97 for proteasomal degradation. Disruption of this axis results in excessive accumulation of full-length PINK1, accelerated turnover of PRKN, and impaired mitophagy. Moreover, we find that this regulatory mechanism is compromised in the brains of patients with Alzheimer disease (AD), and its disruption leads to neuronal mitophagy defects and impaired associated learning capability in C. elegans. These findings demonstrate that the STUB1-VCP/p97 complex fine-tunes PINK1 levels to ensure efficient mitophagy and preserve mitochondrial homeostasis.Abbreviations: AD, Alzheimer disease; CALCOCO2/NDP52, calcium binding and coiled-coil domain 2; MPP, mitochondrial processing peptidase; MQC, mitochondrial quality control; OMM, outer mitochondrial membrane; OPTN, optineurin; PARL, presenilin associated rhomboid like; PINK1, PTEN induced kinase 1; PRKN, parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; SILAC, stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture; STUB1, STIP1 homology and U-box containing protein 1; TPR, tetratricopeptide repeat; VCP/p97, valosin containing protein; WIPI2, WD repeat domain, phosphoinositide interacting 2.
BACKGROUND: Spinocerebellar ataxias comprise a group of neurodegenerative disorders characterized by progressive cerebellar ataxia with clinical and genetic heterogeneity. Autosomal recessive spinocerebellar ataxia type 16 (SCAR16) is characterized by cerebellar ataxia accompanied by pyramidal tract damage, cognitive decline, hypogonadism, and extrapyramidal symptoms. SCAR16 is caused by mutations in the STIP1 homology and U-box containing protein 1 (STUB1) gene. METHODS: The whole-exome sequencing combined with long-range flanking polymerase chain reaction (PCR) were performed in a Chinese SCAR16 patient. Furthermore, we used quantitative real-time PCR and western blot analysis to investigate the function of variant in STUB1 in cultured cells. RESULTS: We identified a compound heterozygote in STUB1 containing a novel nonsense variant, NM_005861.4:c.352 C > T, p.(Gln118*), and a pathogenic missense variant, NM_005861.4:c.433 A > C, p.(Lys145Gln), in a Chinese SCAR16 patient. The age at onset was 27 years old with clinical characteristics of cerebellar ataxia and increased tendon reflex. We found that STUB1 p.(Gln118*) variant generated truncated proteins of the C-terminus of Hsc70-interacting protein and caused the loss function of ubiquitin ligase activity. CONCLUSIONS: Our results confirmed the pathogenicity of the STUB1 p.(Gln118*) variant, expanding the spectrum of causative variants associated with SCAR16.
BACKGROUND: DNA topoisomerase IIɑ (TOP2A) is crucial for maintaining genomic stability and is an important target for genotoxic chemotherapeutic drugs. STIP1 homology and U-box-containing protein 1 (STUB1) is a U-box containing E3 ubiquitin ligase that participates in the degradation of specific oncogenic proteins. This research examined the potential regulatory function of STUB1 in relation to TOP2A, and explored its functional implications. METHODS: To identify interactions between STUB1 and TOP2A, coimmunoprecipitation, Glutathione S-transferases (GST) pull-down, and immunofluorescence assays were performed. Cycloheximide (CHX) pulse-chase assay, in vivo and in vitro ubiquitination, quantitative RT-PCR, chromatin immunoprecipitation (CHIP), and luciferase assays were performed to determine how STUB1 interacts with TOP2A. In addition, TOP2A catalytic activity, colony formation, WST-1, and flow cytometry assays were performed and a xenograft model was further developed to explore whether STUB1 could downregulate the catalytic activity of TOP2A, reduce the growth of breast cancer, and increase its sensitivity to doxorubicin. Moreover, immunohistochemical staining was conducted to assess STUB1 and TOP2A expression levels, as well as their predictive roles in the efficacy of neoadjuvant chemotherapy in individuals diagnosed with breast cancer. RESULTS: STUB1 enhanced TOP2A translocation to the cytoplasm, downregulating its expression through increased ubiquitination and degradation. Forkhead box M1 (FOXM1), another substrate of STUB1, served as a transcription factor for TOP2A, playing a role in STUB1-mediated downregulation of TOP2A at the transcriptional level. STUB1 inhibited TOP2A’s activity, reduced cancer cell proliferation, increased doxorubicin-induced apoptosis, and promoted cell cycle arrest. In a breast cancer xenograft model, STUB1 suppressed tumor growth and improved doxorubicin sensitivity. A positive correlation between FOXM1 and TOP2A expression was found in patients with breast cancer undergoing EC-T chemotherapy, both negatively correlated with STUB1, whose higher expression levels were linked to increased pathologic complete response (pCR) rates. STUB1 was evaluated as an independent predictor of pCR through univariate and multivariate analyses. CONCLUSIONS: This study proposes a novel function of STUB1 in the downregulation of TOP2A, which directly enhances sensitivity to chemotherapy.
BACKGROUND: Lenvatinib is a first-line therapeutic option for advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), while acquired resistance severely limits its clinical efficacy. The precise molecular targets reversing Lenvatinib resistance remain inadequately explored. This study aims to elucidate the role of ubiquitin-specific peptidase 1 (USP1) in mediating resistance and identify potential therapeutic targets to improve treatment outcomes in HCC. METHODS: Comprehensive analyses employing genetic modulation (USP1 knockdown and overexpression), pharmacological inhibition, and a series of in vitro and in vivo assays were conducted to assess the effects of USP1 on HCC cell sensitivity to Lenvatinib. Mass spectrometry-based proteomics, integrated bioinformatics analysis, and subsequent molecular validation techniques were utilized to systematically identify key USP1 substrates and interacting E3 ubiquitin ligases. Additionally, virtual screening was conducted using the ChemDiv library to identify potential inhibitors, followed by validation of candidate compounds through in vitro and in vivo experiments. RESULTS: Depletion of USP1 markedly enhanced sensitivity to Lenvatinib in HCC cells, while its overexpression induced resistance. Notably, USP1 knockdown led to obvious chromosome misalignment during metaphase in the presence of Lenvatinib. Mechanistically, Polo-like kinase 1 (PLK1) was identified as a critical substrate stabilized by USP1-mediated deubiquitination, essential for maintaining chromosome alignment and facilitating drug resistance. Additionally, we discovered that the E3 ubiquitin ligase STIP1 homology and U-box-containing protein 1 (STUB1) antagonized with USP1 to regulate PLK1 stability, further modulating resistance of HCC cells. c-Myc was identified as a transcriptional regulator of USP1, establishing a positive feedback loop as USP1/ PLK1/ c-Myc axis. Importantly, NTUZLB-001, a novel compound identified via in silico screening, effectively overcame resistance by promoting PLK1 destabilization. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings reveal a novel mechanism wherein USP1 promotes Lenvatinib resistance in HCC by regulating chromosome alignment through PLK1 deubiquitination. Targeting the USP1/PLK1 axis with NTUZLB-001 represents a promising therapeutic strategy to overcome drug resistance and enhance the clinical efficacy of Lenvatinib in HCC treatment.
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is the most aggressive subtype of breast cancer without effective targeted therapies. Integrative analysis of transcriptomic and proteomic datasets of TNBC in our center revealed that bisphosphate nucleotidase 1 (BPNT1), a member of inositol monophosphatase superfamily with poorly characterized functional and mechanistic roles in human cancer, was abnormally upregulated in TNBC and its high expression was associated with poor patient prognosis. Loss- and gain-of-function assays revealed that BPNT1 acted as a novel oncogenic driver to promote TNBC cell proliferation, migration, invasion in vitro and to accelerate xenograft tumor growth and lung metastasis in mice. Mechanistically, BPNT1 recruited E3 ubiquitin ligase STUB1 (STIP1 homology and U-box containing protein 1) to induce proteasomal degradation of tumor suppressor protein LIMA1 (LIM domain and actin binding 1), thus promoting the epithelial-mesenchymal transition process and TNBC progression. Notably, re-expression of LIMA1 in BPNT1-overexpressing cells partially attenuated BPNT1-driven EMT and malignant phenotypes of TNBC cells. Furthermore, knockdown of BPNT1 enhanced the sensitivity of TNBC cells to the chemotherapeutic agent docetaxel. Collectively, these findings uncover a previously unknown role of the BPNT1-STUB1-LIMA1 axis in progression and docetaxel resistance in TNBC, and highlight BPNT1 as a potential therapeutic target for patients with TNBC.© 2025. The Author(s).
Bone cancer pain (BCP) is one of the most common and debilitating types of pain in cancer patients, severely impairing the quality of life in advanced stages of the disease. However, its underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood, highlighting the urgent need to clarify its pathogenesis and identify novel therapeutic targets. Increasing evidence suggests that altered excitability of spinal dorsal horn neurons is a prerequisite for pain generation. The dynamic balance of intracellular and extracellular calcium ion concentrations is critical for maintaining normal neuronal excitability. In this study, we investigated the role of calcium homeostasis modulator 2 (Calhm2) in BCP. In BCP mice, the expression of Calhm2 in the spinal dorsal horn was significantly upregulated, accompanied by a concomitant increase in calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II α (CaMKIIα). Lentiviral-mediated knockdown of Calhm2 in the spinal dorsal horn reduced CaMKIIα expression, alleviated mechanical allodynia, and decreased c-fos expression. These findings suggest that Calhm2 regulates CaMKIIα to promote neuronal activation in the spinal dorsal horn, thereby contributing to the development of bone cancer pain. Calhm2 may represent a promising target for therapeutic intervention in BCP.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Objective: Impaired fatty acid oxidation (FAO) is considered an important metabolic mechanism underlying skeletal muscle aging and sarcopenia; however, the key regulatory molecules involved in this process remain incompletely defined. This study aimed to identify candidate biomarkers associated with impaired FAO in aged skeletal muscle, characterize their potential biological functions and regulatory features through integrated bioinformatics and machine learning analyses, and preliminarily validate their expression patterns in in vivo and in vitro aging models. Methods: Skeletal muscle aging transcriptomic datasets GSE1428 and GSE674 were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus database. FAO-related genes were retrieved from GeneCards. Differentially expressed FAO-related genes (DE-FAOGs) were identified through differential expression analysis and were further analyzed by Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment analyses. Random forest, Boruta, and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analyses were used to screen hub genes, and an artificial neural network (ANN) model was constructed. Single-cell RNA sequencing analysis, gene set enrichment analysis, ceRNA network construction, drug prediction, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics simulation were further performed. Hub gene expression was validated by qRT-PCR in naturally aged mice and D-galactose-induced senescent C2C12 cells. Results: A total of 69 DE-FAOGs were identified and were mainly enriched in mitochondrial function, electron transport chain, and energy metabolism-related pathways. Three hub genes, creatine kinase, mitochondrial 2 (CKMT2), actin alpha cardiac muscle 1 (ACTC1), and forkhead box O3 (FOXO3), were identified by random forest, Boruta, and PPI analyses. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis showed good discriminatory performance for these genes. The three-gene ANN model achieved area under the curve (AUC) values of 0.992 and 0.964 in the training and validation datasets, respectively. Gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) suggested that the hub genes were closely associated with mitochondrial energy metabolism, lipid metabolism, and stress regulation. qRT-PCR confirmed decreased Ckmt2 expression and increased Actc1 and Foxo3 expression under aging conditions, consistent with the bioinformatics results. Conclusions: CKMT2, ACTC1, and FOXO3 are potential biomarkers associated with impaired FAO in aged skeletal muscle. The ANN model based on these three genes showed good predictive performance and may provide new insights into the metabolic mechanisms and therapeutic targets of sarcopenia.
Forkhead box O3 (FoxO3) is implicated in aging and metabolic regulation; however, its roles in the local and systemic control of aging remain incompletely understood. In this study, we characterized the effects of hepatocyte-specific Foxo3 deletion on hepatic metabolic and whole-body energy homeostasis during aging, and the susceptibility of mice to metabolic disease. Male hepatocyte-specific Foxo3 knockout (h-Foxo3-/-) mice developed moderate obesity and higher plasma insulin levels by middle age, despite no difference in food intake compared with wild-type mice. Indirect calorimetry revealed lower energy expenditure relative to body weight, a higher respiratory quotient, and less fatty acid oxidation, indicating a shift toward carbohydrate-dependent energy metabolism. Adipose tissue exhibited inflammatory cell infiltration and high expression of inflammatory and senescence markers, consistent with systemic insulin resistance. Although these findings suggested that hepatokine signaling regulates systemic metabolism, there was limited direct evidence for FoxO3-dependent hepatokine secretion. RNA-sequencing analysis suggested that fatty acid processing and xenobiotic and detoxification pathways were suppressed in h-Foxo3-/- liver and that gluconeogenic and proinflammatory programs were activated. h-Foxo3-/- mice exhibited hepatic steatosis and an increase in the oxidized glutathione concentration when consuming a regular diet, and those consuming a fat-, fructose-, and cholesterol-rich diet, which induces steatohepatitis, showed more severe fibrosis than controls. Collectively, these findings suggest that hepatic FoxO3 is a key regulator coordinating hepatic lipid processing, xenobiotic metabolism and detoxification, susceptibility to metabolic disorders, and systemic metabolic flexibility. Thus, hepatic FoxO3 contributes to the maintenance of metabolic resilience during aging.
Parkinson's disease (PD), the second most prevalent neurodegenerative disease, is closely linked to aging and immune system dysfunction. This study aims to explore potential aging-related biomarkers of PD and examine their diagnostic value, in addition to their relationship with immune cell infiltration, to identify novel therapeutic targets.Gene expression profiles from the gene expression omnibus (GEO) database (GSE20163, GSE20164, and GSE8397) were analyzed. Aging-related genes associated with PD were screened using weighted gene co-expression network analysis. Subsequent functional enrichment analysis, protein‒protein interaction (PPI) network mapping, and least absolute shrinkage and selection operator regression were used to identify key biomarker candidates. A receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis was applied to evaluate diagnostic efficacy. Immune cell infiltration was assessed through Spearman correlation analysis, and the expression of key biomarkers was validated in both cellular and animal PD models.Eighteen aging-related genes were identified through a PPI network analysis. Seven genes, including forkhead box O3 (FOXO3) and the proto-oncogene tyrosine-protein kinase receptor rearranged during transfection (RET), showed potential as diagnostic biomarkers for PD. Gene set enrichment analysis revealed that these biomarkers correlated with immune cell infiltration patterns in PD patients. The ROC curve analysis indicated high diagnostic accuracy for these genes across multiple datasets (area under the curve = 96.3158). In vivo and in vitro validation confirmed significant changes in the expression of RET and FOXO3 in PD samples, highlighting their relevance as biomarkers.Our findings suggest that RET and FOXO3 are promising aging-related biomarkers for PD, potentially providing new insights into the early diagnosis and targeted treatment of PD. These biomarkers also reflect the complex interplay between aging, immunity, and PD pathogenesis.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by Scientific Scholar.
The total synthesis of JBIR-141 and its analogues was achieved through a convergent assembly of three fragments. This synthesis successfully addressed several challenges arising from a highly acid-sensitive oxazoline, a reactive nitrosohydroxyamino group, and an epimerization-prone tetramic acid. The developed synthetic route enabled access to 25-methyl/17-methyl derivatives as potent/stabilized FOXO3 inhibitors. This study provides a robust platform for structure-activity relationship studies and future target identification in chronic myelogenous leukemia therapeutics.© 2026 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
Premature ovarian insufficiency (POI) is a major driver of female reproductive aging, but its mechanisms and the spatial and structural patterns of reproductive aging remain poorly understood. This study, therefore, constructed a spatial transcriptomic atlas of POI mouse models to define the spatial and molecular features of granulosa senescence during disease progression. Spatial analysis revealed disrupted follicular structure and distinct granulosa subpopulations exhibiting blocked differentiation and senescence-associated gene signatures. Integrating multiple gene sets identified structural and functional mitochondrial impairment, excess fission, reduced fusion, mitochondrial membrane potential loss, insufficient ATP production, and reactive oxygen species accumulation as central features of granulosa senescence in POI. KEGG pathway enrichment implicated FOXO signaling in regulating mitochondrial dysfunction, and FOXO3 phosphorylation was significantly reduced in POI. In a triptolide-induced KGN cell POI model, pharmacological inhibition of aberrant FOXO3 activation partially restored mitochondrial morphology and function, whereas suppressing FOXO3 phosphorylation in normal KGN cells induced mitochondrial dysfunction. AAV-mediated FOXO3 overexpression in mouse granulosa cells recapitulated the senescent phenotype and mitochondrial dynamic imbalance, activating PINK1/PARKIN-mediated mitophagy signaling. Physiologically aged 10-month-old mouse ovaries showed identical hallmarks-reduced p-FOXO3, upregulated senescence markers, and disrupted mitochondrial dynamics-suggesting a conserved feature of ovarian functional decline. Together, these findings demonstrate that aberrant FOXO3 pathway activation disrupts mitochondrial dynamic homeostasis, driving granulosa senescence and ovarian failure in POI. By integrating spatial transcriptomics with functional and mechanistic analyzes, this study establishes a spatially resolved framework for understanding ovarian aging and identifies FOXO3-regulated mitochondrial pathways as potential diagnostic and therapeutic targets for POI.© 2026 The Author(s). Aging Cell published by Anatomical Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Senescence of immune cells can drive senescence of solid organs, and reversing immune cell senescence ameliorates organismal senescence phenotypes. As the second largest subset of decidual immune cells, macrophages play a critical role in pregnancy. However, whether decidual macrophages (DM) exhibit senescence in advanced maternal age (AMA) pregnancies (≥ 35 years old) and their involvement in AMA-related adverse outcomes remain undefined. This study elucidates the phenotypic and functional characteristics of DM in AMA pregnancies through clinical samples, animal models, and in vitro experiments. It clarifies the mechanisms underlying DM aging and explores novel intervention strategies to reverse DM aging and improve pregnancy outcomes in AMA pregnancies. We found that the presence of DM senescence in AMA pregnancies, manifested by an increased proportion of the pro-inflammatory phenotype M1, increased expression of senescence markers (P53 and SA-β-Gal), and decreased phagocytic capacity-all associated with the development of adverse outcomes in AMA. The mechanistic basis of DM senescence involves two key pathways: on the one hand, low expression of forkhead box O3 causes DM senescence by downregulating mitophagy. On the other hand, elevated IL-6 in the uterine microenvironment exacerbates senescence. Adoptive transfer of young mouse bone marrow-derived macrophages significantly rescues embryo resorption rates and placental development in AMA pregnant mice. Overall, our study uncovers novel mechanisms and therapeutic strategies for AMA-related adverse pregnancy outcomes through a new perspective of uterine macrophage senescence, providing new intervention ideas to improve adverse pregnancy outcomes in AMA.© 2026 The Author(s). Aging Cell published by Anatomical Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Melanoma represents a highly aggressive form of skin cancer characterized by significant invasiveness and immune evasion capabilities. Although heme oxygenase-1 (HMOX1) participates in cellular stress responses and ferroptosis, its precise functional roles in melanoma pathogenesis remain incompletely defined.HMOX1 expression levels in melanoma tissues and cell lines were evaluated using immunohistochemistry (IHC), quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR), and western blotting. HMOX1 function was investigated through short hairpin RNA (shRNA)-mediated knockdown, followed by assessment of cellular proliferation, migration, invasion, and ferroptosis sensitivity. Forkhead box O3 (FOXO3)-mediated transcriptional regulation of HMOX1 was experimentally validated using dual-luciferase reporter assays. The impact of HMOX1 expression in melanoma cells on CD8+ T cells was examined through co-culture experiments with peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). The in vivo effect of HMOX1 knockdown was evaluated using a mouse subcutaneous xenograft model.HMOX1 expression was significantly elevated in melanoma compared with normal controls and strongly correlated with poor prognosis. HMOX1 knockdown effectively suppressed melanoma cell proliferation, migration, and invasion, while simultaneously inducing ferroptosis, characterized by increased intracellular ferrous iron (Fe2+) and reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels, along with decreased glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) expression. Additionally, HMOX1 depletion attenuated immune escape mechanisms, evidenced by reduced programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression, promoted CD8+ T cell expansion in co-culture systems, and elevated tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) and interferon-gamma (IFN-γ) secretion. Mechanistically, the transcription factor FOXO3 was identified as a transcriptional activator of HMOX1, thus establishing a FOXO3/HMOX1 regulatory axis that drives melanoma progression. In vivo xenograft experiments corroborated these findings, demonstrating significant tumor growth inhibition upon HMOX1 silencing.FOXO3-mediated upregulation of HMOX1 promotes melanoma cell proliferation, invasion, immune escape, and ferroptosis resistance. The FOXO3/HMOX1 axis represents a potential therapeutic target for melanoma treatment.©The Author(s) 2026. Open Access. This article is licensed under a Creative Commons CC-BY International License.
The seeds of Cuscuta chinensis Lam. (CCL) are commonly used in traditional Chinese medicine to strengthen kidney qi and alleviate mental fatigue as well as mood dysregulation and affective disturbances. Total organic acids, as major active constituents, have been reported to exert neuroprotective and mood-modulating effects, supporting their relevance to depression research.Investigating the antidepressant effects and elucidating underlying molecular mechanisms of total organic acids from Cuscuta chinensis Lam. (Ora) on neurogenesis and neural plasticity through the MDM2 (E3 ubiquitin ligase)/FOXO3 (Forkhead box O3) ubiquitination regulatory pathway.Organic acids were extracted and isolated from Cuscuta chinensis Lam., and their major components were qualitatively identified by ultra-performance liquid chromatography coupled with LTQ-Orbitrap mass spectrometry (UPLC/LTQ-Orbitrap-MS) analysis. Subsequently, a chronic social defeat stress (CSDS) paradigm was established, and behavioral assessments were undertaken to delineate the influence of Ora in CSDS-exposed mice. Immunoblotting was used to quantify synaptic plasticity-associated proteins, and Golgi staining was subsequently applied to examine dendritic spine density. Immunofluorescence and immunohistochemistry were carried out to characterize neural stem/progenitor cell proliferation and differentiation both in vitro and in vivo, with Sholl analysis further providing an assessment of adult hippocampal neurogenesis. In addition, an integrative in silico strategy incorporating network-level analysis and ligand-target interaction modeling was applied to identify potential targets and delineate the mechanistic basis of Ora-mediated antidepressant activity. Subsequently, co-immunoprecipitation assay was performed to evaluate protein interactions and ubiquitination levels; additionally, the effect of MDM2 knockdown on the antidepressant efficacy of Ora was further examined.Ora alleviated CSDS-induced depressive behaviors, enhanced synaptic plasticity-associated protein expression, and increased dendritic spine density in hippocampal neurons. Moreover, Ora facilitated neural stem cell expansion and subsequent lineage commitment, thereby supporting hippocampal neurogenesis in adults. Furthermore, network pharmacology analysis revealed that CCL shares 387 common targets associated with depression, predominantly enriched in MDM2. Experimental validation demonstrated that Ora upregulated MDM2 expression, reduced FOXO3 levels, and enhanced FOXO3 ubiquitination to promote its degradation. Importantly, the therapeutic effects of Ora were markedly attenuated following MDM2 knockdown.This study provides the first integrated evidence that Ora counteracts CSDS-associated depressive-like symptoms through MDM2/FOXO3-dependent regulation of ubiquitination, which in turn augments hippocampal neurogenesis and neural plasticity. Collectively, these observations provide a conceptual basis supporting the future translational exploration of this herbal agent.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42323070 is a review article
Secondary lymphedema is a debilitating complication following oncologic surgery, characterized by progressive tissue fibrosis and chronic inflammation. Although transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) has been established as a central mediator of fibrotic remodeling, the broader interplay between pro-inflammatory cytokines and downstream fibrotic signaling cascades in post-surgical lymphedematous tissue remains poorly understood.Skin and subcutaneous tissue biopsies were prospectively collected from 126 patients with unilateral breast cancer-related lymphedema and 58 matched controls across three tertiary centers between January 2024 and December 2025. Tissue specimens were analyzed using immunohistochemistry, quantitative real-time PCR, multiplex cytokine profiling, and Western blotting. Correlations between cytokine expression, fibrotic markers, and clinical severity were evaluated.Lymphedematous tissues exhibited significantly elevated expression of TGF-β1, interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-13 (IL-13), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) compared with controls (all P < 0.01). Concurrent activation of Smad2/3 and STAT3 signaling pathways was observed, with both correlating positively with disease severity. Multivariate regression identified TGF-β1, IL-6, and IL-13 as independent predictors of fibrotic burden, whereas TNF-α lost significance after adjustment for confounders. Lymphatic vessel density was inversely associated with cytokine levels and fibrotic severity.Secondary upper extremity lymphedema following breast cancer surgery is driven by a coordinated inflammatory and fibrotic axis involving TGF-β1, IL-6, and IL-13 through convergent Smad2/3 and STAT3 signaling. These findings support the development of multi-pathway therapeutic strategies beyond single-agent anti-fibrotic approaches for post-surgical lymphedema.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
To evaluate the effects of melatonin on chondrogenic and osteogenic differentiation, chondro-osteogenic transdifferentiation, and inflammatory responses in equine mesenchymal stem cells (eMSCs) in vitro.This in vitro experimental study was conducted from October 2023 through June 2024. The eMSCs were cultured under chondrogenic, osteogenic, and chondro-osteogenic transdifferentiation conditions with or without melatonin and exposed to proinflammatory cytokines (IL-1β and tumor necrosis factor-α [TNF-α]). Expression of chondrogenic and osteogenic markers was measured by quantitative reverse-transcription PCR. Concentrations of IL-1β, TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-8 in culture supernatants were quantified by multiplex immunoassay.In chondrogenic cultures, melatonin was associated with increased collagen type II (COLII) and sex-determining region Y-box transcription factor 9 (SOX9) expression and was associated with higher COLII-to-collagen type I (COLI) and SOX9-to-runt-related transcription factor 2 (RUNX2) ratios, consistent with preservation of chondrogenic phenotype. During chondro-osteogenic transdifferentiation, melatonin increased RUNX2 and ALP expression and decreased COLII:COLI and SOX9:RUNX2 ratios, suggesting promotion of an early osteogenic or hypertrophic shift. In contrast, in osteogenic cultures, melatonin decreased RUNX2, ALP, and COLI expression, indicating context-dependent effects on osteogenic differentiation. Across culture conditions, melatonin significantly reduced IL-1β, TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-8 concentrations in culture supernatants.Melatonin differentially modulated lineage behavior in eMSCs, preserving chondrogenic characteristics in some settings, promoting early osteogenic transition during transdifferentiation, and suppressing proinflammatory mediator production.These findings support further investigation of melatonin as a potential adjunct for modulating proinflammatory responses during equine cartilage repair and other inflammatory musculoskeletal disorders.
Osteoporosis (OP) occurs with decreased bone mass and deterioration of the bone microarchitecture. This can lead to an increased incidence of bone fractures. In traditional Chinese medicine, the herbal pair of Eucommia ulmoides and Achyranthes bidentata is used to tonify the liver and kidney in order to strengthen bones. This study examined the network pharmacology and molecular docking of the pair to investigate the pharmacological mechanisms of the drug pair against OP. Active compounds were retrieved from the Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology database if they had an oral bioavailability of 30% or greater and a drug-likeness score of 0.18 or greater. OP-associated targets were identified from the GeneCards and Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man databases. The compound-target-disease network and protein-protein interaction network were built using Cytoscape and the Search Tool for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes/Proteins, respectively. Key pathways were identified using the Database for Annotation, Visualization and Integrated Discovery functional enrichment analysis. To predict the potential binding interactions between the major compounds and the hub targets, molecular docking was used. In total, 49 active compounds (28 from E ulmoides and 21 from A bidentata) and 95 overlapping therapeutic targets were found. Quercetin, kaempferol, β-sitosterol, stigmasterol and wogonin were identified as key bioactive components within the network analysis. Fourteen hub targets, including interleukin-6, vascular endothelial growth factor A, tumor necrosis factor, tumor protein p53, and mitogen-activated protein kinase 1, were identified through protein-protein interaction analysis. Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment revealed involvement in tumor necrosis factor, mitogen-activated protein kinase, hypoxia-inducible factor 1, Toll-like receptor, and NOD-like receptor signaling pathways. Molecular docking demonstrated favorable binding affinities between the key compounds and core proteins, suggesting potential interactions consistent with the network pharmacology predictions. The Eucommia-Achyranthes herbal pair may exert potential therapeutic effects on OP through multicomponent, multi-target, and multi-pathway interactions. Its main bioactive compounds may potentially interact with inflammatory and osteogenic signaling pathways via key targets such as interleukin-6, vascular endothelial growth factor A, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, tumor protein p53, and mitogen-activated protein kinase 1, which may be associated with bone metabolism and structural integrity. These findings provide a theoretical foundation for future experimental and clinical validation.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Rheumatoid arthritis and its glucocorticoid-based treatment may adversely affect male reproductive function by disrupting spermatogenesis, steroidogenesis, and testicular homeostasis. Insulin-like peptide 3 (INSL3), a Leydig cell-derived peptide hormone and marker of Leydig cell functional capacity, may contribute to the maintenance of testicular function through its steroidogenic and anti-inflammatory effects. In the present study, we investigated the effects of prednisolone and INSL3, administered alone or in combination, on testicular structure and function in rats with adjuvant-induced arthritis. Adult male rats were allocated to seven groups: control, prednisolone, INSL3, arthritis, arthritis + prednisolone, arthritis + INSL3, and arthritis + prednisolone + INSL3. Testicular alterations were evaluated using histological, morphometric, immunohistochemical, ultrastructural, testosterone, and sperm analyses. Arthritis was associated with reduced testicular weight, decreased seminiferous tubule diameter and epithelial thickness, impaired sperm parameters, lower serum and intratesticular testosterone levels, increased testicular tumor necrosis factor-α and interleukin-6 immunoreactivity, and reduced 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase and proliferating cell nuclear antigen immunoreactivity. In arthritic rats, prednisolone or INSL3 alone was associated with partial improvement in selected testicular parameters, whereas combined treatment was associated with improvement across several inflammatory, morphometric, steroidogenic, and sperm-related parameters. These findings suggest that INSL3 treatment is associated with partial attenuation of inflammation-related testicular injury and improvement in selected reproductive parameters under inflammatory and glucocorticoid stress. Further studies are required to clarify whether these effects are mediated by direct intratesticular mechanisms or indirect systemic pathways.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Society for Reproductive Investigation.
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a globally prevalent chronic liver disease, and its progression is closely associated with Kupffer cells (KCs). This study aims to characterize C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 9꞉secreted phosphoprotein 1 (CS) polarization in KCs and investigate its intercellular communication with endothelial cells (ECs) in NAFLD.Single-cell RNA sequencing data of liver tissues from 3 NAFLD mice and 3 control mice were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) dataset GSE129516. Seurat was used for data integration, quality control, clustering, and annotation. KCs and ECs were divided into subgroups, followed by Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses. A mouse liver single-cell dataset (GSE270583) was further included for cross-validation of CS polarization. CellChat was used to infer intercellular communication networks between KC and EC subgroups. Twenty male C57BL/6J mice were assigned to a control group (n=10) and a high-fat diet (HFD) group (n=10). Body weight was measured weekly. At 20 weeks of feeding, glucose tolerance and insulin tolerance were assessed, after which the mice were sacrificed, and serum and liver tissues were collected for subsequent experiments. Hematoxylin and eosin (HE) staining and Oil Red O staining were used to observe pathological changes in the liver. Immunofluorescence staining of liver tissues was performed to validate the characteristics of CS polarization and M1/M2 polarization.A total of 29 cell clusters belonging to 8 cell types were identified. Compared with the control group, the proportion of KCs was increased and the proportion of ECs was decreased in the NAFLD group. Under M1/M2 and CS polarization frameworks, subgroups including CD80+ KCs, CD206+ KCs, S100A4+ KCs, secreted phosphoprotein 1 (SPP1)+ KCs, and C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 9 (CXCL9)+ KCs were identified. Among these, CD80+ KCs and SPP1+ KCs were significantly expanded, and their characteristic genes were mainly enriched in nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) signaling pathways. Peroxiredoxin 3 (PRDX3) was upregulated in CD80+ KCs and downregulated in CD206+ KCs. ECs were divided into 3 subgroups: Apoa2+ ECs, PRDX3+ ECs, and Col4a1+ ECs. In the NAFLD group, the PRDX3+ EC subgroup was abnormally active, accompanied by high expression of PRDX1 and downregulation of glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4). Further external validation using the single-cell dataset GSE270583 showed that SPP1+ KCs and CXCL9+ KCs could be clearly separated, and the proportion of SPP1+ KCs was increased in the NAFLD group, supporting the cross-cohort reproducibility of CS polarization in NAFLD. CellChat analysis suggested activation of the TNF receptor superfamily member 1A (TNFRSF1A) signaling pathway from CD80+ KCs and SPP1+ KCs to PRDX3+ ECs. After 20-week HFD feeding, mice displayed significant weight gain, impaired glucose tolerance, and reduced insulin sensitivity compared with controls (all P<0.05). The levels of alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate transferase (AST), total cholesterol (TC), and triglyceride (TG) were significantly higher in the HFD group than in the control group (all P<0.05). HE staining and Oil Red O staining showed marked disordered hepatic architecture, lipid vacuoles, and lipid deposition in the livers of HFD mice. Immunofluorescence staining showed increased expression of PRDX3 and CD80 in liver tissues of the HFD group. Compared with the control group, SPP1 expression was increased, whereas CXCL9 expression was decreased, in hepatic KCs of the HFD group. These results were consistent with the single-cell transcriptome sequencing findings.KCs in NAFLD exhibit characteristics of CS polarization, with increased proportions of SPP1+ KCs and CD80+ KCs, as well as enhanced TNF-TNFRSF1A communication with PRDX3+ ECs. Changes in the expression of SPP1, CXCL9, CD80, and PRDX3 in the liver tissues of HFD mice were generally consistent with the single-cell analysis results. CS polarization may participate in alterations of the hepatic inflammatory microenvironment in NAFLD and may provide a new research direction for understanding the inflammation-fibrosis progression of NAFLD.
Hypertensive retinopathy is a microvascular complication caused by systemic hypertension and can lead to severe visual impairment. At present, the molecular mechanisms of this disease remain incompletely understood, particularly the global expression profiles and regulatory networks of non-coding RNA (ncRNA). This study aims to comprehensively analyze the genome-wide differential expression profiles of messenger RNA (mRNA), microRNA (miRNA), long non-coding RNA (lncRNA), and circular RNA (circRNA) in retinal tissues from a spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) model of hypertensive retinopathy, and to observe transcriptomic changes after treatment with the calcium channel blocker lacidipine, thereby revealing their potential roles in disease pathogenesis and identifying possible therapeutic targets.SHRs were used as a model of hypertensive retinopathy, and normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats were used as controls. Rats were divided into 3 groups: A control group (WKY), a model group (SHR), and a treatment group (SHR+lacidipine). Rats in the treatment group received lacidipine by gavage at 0.5 mg/(kg·d) for 8 consecutive weeks. At the end of the experiment, retinal tissues were collected for histopathological examination by hematoxylin and eosin (HE) staining and for high-throughput sequencing. The lncRNA library was used to analyze mRNA, lncRNA, and circRNA expression profiles, and the small RNA (sRNA) library was used to analyze miRNA expression profiles. Differential expression analysis was performed using DESeq2. The screening criteria were |log2 fold change (FC)|≥1 and false discovery rate (FDR) significance criteria for mRNAs and lncRNAs, and |log2FC|≥1 and P<0.05 for miRNAs and circRNAs as exploratory candidates. Differentially expressed RNAs were subjected to Gene Ontology (GO) functional annotation and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analysis. Competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) regulatory networks involving lncRNA/circRNA-miRNA-mRNA were constructed through target prediction and co‑expression analysis. Ten mRNAs whose expression changes were reversed after treatment were selected for validation by real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (real-time RT-PCR; n=6 per group). Comparisons among multiple groups were performed using one-way analysis of variance and post hoc multiple-comparison tests.1) Verification of the animal model: Blood pressure was significantly higher in the model group than in the control group. The model group exhibited edema of the retinal nerve fiber layer, dilation of vascular lumens, and increased retinal thickness. Lacidipine treatment reduced blood pressure and alleviated these pathological changes. 2) Differential expression of mRNAs: Compared with the control group, 870 mRNAs were significantly downregulated and 1 018 mRNAs were significantly upregulated in the model group. Compared with the model group, 2 644 mRNAs were significantly downregulated and 186 mRNAs were significantly upregulated in the treatment group. GO analysis showed that upregulated mRNAs in the model group were enriched in immune-inflammatory processes, such as leukocyte activation, chemotaxis, defense response, and regulation of tumor necrosis factor (TNF) production, whereas downregulated mRNAs were enriched in G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) signaling, glycoprotein synthesis, ion channel activity, and related processes. KEGG analysis revealed that upregulated mRNAs in the model group were enriched in interleukin-17 (IL-17), TNF, oxidative stress, and lipid inflammatory mediator metabolic pathways, whereas downregulated mRNAs were enriched in phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)-protein kinase B (AKT) signaling, vascular smooth muscle contraction, extracellular matrix (ECM)-receptor interaction, and related pathways. In the treatment group, the downregulated mRNAs were mainly enriched in pathways related to immune-inflammatory activation, such as mast cell degranulation and leukocyte degranulation. 3) Treatment-reversed mRNAs: A total of 67 genes that were upregulated in the model group and downregulated after treatment were identified; these genes were mainly enriched in endoplasmic reticulum stress-associated apoptotic signaling, mitophagy, ubiquitin ligase activity, and related processes. In addition, 54 genes that were downregulated in the model group and upregulated after treatment were identified; these genes were mainly enriched in amino acid transport, integrin complex, focal adhesion, glutamate transport activity, and related processes. Real-time RT-PCR validated the expression changes of Med22, Rmt1, Sytl3, Itgb7, and Slc1a3 which were decreased in the model group and increased after treatment, as well as Rnf183, Lrrc29, Lat2, Hist1h4m, and Dpm3, which were increased in the model group and decreased after treatment. These findings were consistent with the sequencing results. 4) Differential expression of miRNAs: Compared with the control group, 30 miRNAs were downregulated and 26 miRNAs were upregulated in the model group. Compared with the model group, 14 miRNAs were downregulated and 53 miRNAs were upregulated in the treatment group. Treatment-reversed miRNAs were identified: Rno-miR-1-3p, novel_miR_1203, and novel_miR_1417 were upregulated in the model group and downregulated after treatment, whereas novel_miR_107 and novel_miR_905 were downregulated in the model group and upregulated after treatment. Their target genes were enriched in regulation of retinal cone/rod cell differentiation, ECM remodeling, the Notch pathway, fatty acid synthesis, and related processes. 5) Differential expression of lncRNAs: Compared with the control group, 786 lncRNAs were downregulated and 764 lncRNAs were upregulated in the model group. Compared with the model group, 217 lncRNAs were downregulated and 230 lncRNAs were upregulated in the treatment group. A total of 55 lncRNAs that were upregulated in the model group and downregulated after treatment, and 76 lncRNAs that were downregulated in the model group and upregulated after treatment, were identified. Their target genes were enriched in immune regulation, wound healing, vascular remodeling, retinol metabolism related to rod-mediated scotopic vision, glutamatergic neuron differentiation, the forkhead box O (FoxO) pathway, retinoic acid-inducible gene I (RIG-I)-like receptor signaling, and related processes. 6) Differential expression of circRNAs: Compared with the control group, 45 circRNAs were downregulated and 47 circRNAs were upregulated in the model group. Compared with the model group, 25 circRNAs were downregulated and 22 circRNAs were upregulated in the treatment group. Eleven circRNAs that were downregulated in the model group and upregulated after treatment, and 10 circRNAs that were upregulated in the model group and downregulated after treatment, were identified. Their host genes were enriched in regulation of synaptic neural signaling, second messenger transmission, calcium signaling, and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) signaling pathways. 7) Construction of ceRNA networks: Based on expression patterns and target prediction, multiple lncRNA/circRNA-miRNA-mRNA regulatory networks were constructed. For example, the networks composed of rno_circ_Rims2_10, rno-miR-1-3p, and related mRNAs, such as Mmp14 and Fasn, as well as the novel_miR_1417 related network, may be involved in retinal stress responses, inflammatory regulation, and neurovascular remodeling.This study is the first to integrate and analyze retinal transcriptomic profiles of mRNAs, miRNAs, lncRNAs, and circRNAs in an SHR model of hypertensive retinopathy, and it reveals RNA expression changes associated with lacidipine treatment. The results suggest that immune-inflammatory activation, neurovascular dysfunction, and ncRNA-mediated ceRNA regulatory networks may participate in the pathogenesis of hypertensive retinopathy. The identified differentially expressed molecules and predicted regulatory axes provide a candidate molecular basis for further mechanistic validation and screening of potential therapeutic targets.
Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) contribute to host defense by trapping pathogens. However, excessive or dysregulated NET formation is implicated in the pathogenesis of various conditions, including thrombosis, autoimmune diseases, and cancer. Despite their clinical significance, the specific intracellular signaling pathways underlying NET formation in response to proinflammatory cytokines, including tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), remain incompletely defined. Thus, in the present study, we aimed to elucidate the mechanisms underlying TNF-α-induced NET formation in human neutrophil-like differentiated HL-60 (dHL-60) cells. TNF-α induced rapid, non-lytic NET formation in dHL-60 cells without compromising cell viability. Mechanistically, TNF-α activated a signaling cascade involving c-Raf, MEK1/2, and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK). This signaling cascade regulated the sequential caspase activation, with caspase-2 acting upstream of caspase-1 cleavage to promote NET formation. Collectively, these findings suggest that TNF-α induces non-lytic NET formation via a defined c-Raf-MEK1/2-p38 MAPK-caspase pathway and a distinct caspase hierarchy. This mechanism offers a valuable experimental model for studying NET-mediated pathologies in proinflammatory environments.
The tumor necrosis factor (TNF) and TNF receptor (TNFR) superfamilies comprise 47 proteins that regulate immune signaling and T cell costimulation. While TNF inhibitors are established therapies for immune-mediated inflammatory diseases (IMIDs), their efficacy is limited by primary non-response and secondary loss of efficacy. Preclinical data suggest that the TNF/TNFR members exhibit redundant and synergistic signaling, motivating combination targeting strategies.We have systematically evaluated TNF/TNFR combinations as potential immunotolerance targets using integrated computational and experimental approaches. We applied a gene prioritization framework incorporating transcriptomics, genetics, druggability, and pathway regulation data to derive disease association scores for the TNF/TNFR genes in rheumatoid arthritis and inflammatory bowel disease. Based on these scores and T cell expression profiling, ten targets were prioritized for a combinatorial screen using clinical-stage and preclinical pharmacological inhibitors in a mixed lymphocyte reaction (MLR) assay. The effects of the most promising combinations were further characterized by RNA sequencing.The combinatorial screen identified four drug combinations that significantly suppressed T cell production of IL-2 and IFN-γ: TNF+CD40L, TNF+OX40L, CD40L+OX40L, and CD40L+LTβ/LIGHT. Transcriptional profiling revealed that these combinations broadly downregulated genes associated with T cell activation, proliferation, differentiation, and cytokine production that were induced during the allogeneic response. Notably, the co-inhibition of TNF and CD40L (Adalimumab+Dapirolizumab) produced the most robust suppression, uniquely downregulating 337 genes enriched for key T cell activation pathways, including NF-κB and ERK1/2.These findings demonstrate that the combinatorial antagonism of TNF/TNFR superfamily members can potently suppress allogeneic T cell responses, with the TNF+CD40L combination showing particularly strong and broad effects. The results support the continued preclinical evaluation of combinatorial TNF/TNFR inhibition as a potential tolerance-inducing therapeutic strategy for patients with refractory IMIDs.Copyright © 2026 Veerasubramanian, Zang, Amancha, Wynn, Quan and Karlsson.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42563692 is a review article
Ferroptosis is a specific cell death form resulting from the iron-dependent lipid peroxidation, exhibiting an essential role in cancer progression. The purpose of this study was to explore the underlying mechanism of ferroptosis in lung cancer. The mRNA and protein expression levels were examined via real-time quantitative PCR and Western blotting. Cell malignant behaviors were assessed using cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) assay, transwell assay, and flow cytometry. Ferroptosis was determined using the indicators lipid reactive oxygen species (ROS), glutathione (GSH), and Fe2+. Dual-luciferase reporter assay and chromatin immunoprecipitation assay were performed for binding analysis between activating transcription factor 4 (ATF4) and synthesis of cytochrome c oxidase 2 (SCO2). Associated proteins in mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK) signaling pathway were measured by Western blotting. A mouse model was established by implanting lung cancer cells for in vivo research. Lung cancer samples and cells exhibited high expression of SCO2. SCO2 downregulation restrained lung cancer cell growth by inducing ferroptosis. ATF4 was an up-regulated gene in lung cancer, and it elevated SCO2 expression by binding to the promoter of SCO2. ATF4 knockdown repressed cell proliferation and migration while facilitating apoptosis and ferroptosis by down-regulating SCO2. Inhibition of ATF4/SCO2 inactivated the MAPK signaling pathway. ATF4-mediated SCO2 promoted lung tumorigenesis in vivo. This study manifested that ATF4 controlled SCO2 to suppress ferroptosis by activating the MAPK pathway, thus contributing to lung cancer development.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Biochemical and Molecular Toxicology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Endothelial dysfunction is a hallmark of hypertension and a key contributor of hypertensive vascular damage. Mitochondrial oxidative stress serves as a central mediator that triggers endothelial dysfunction in hypertension. Activating Transcription Factor 4 (ATF4) is a key regulator of cellular stress responses; however, its role in maintaining endothelial mitochondrial redox homeostasis under hypertension remains to be fully elucidated. Through integrated bioinformatic profiling of public mouse aortic single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) datasets, we identified a cell-type-specific upregulation of ATF4 within the endothelial cell cluster under both Angiotensin II (Ang II) and high-salt treatment, which was further validated in hypertensive murine aortas and Ang II-stimulated human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). To investigate its functional role in vivo, endothelial-specific ATF4 overexpression was achieved via adeno-associated virus (AAV) delivery in Ang II-infused mice, which blunted blood pressure elevation and attenuated vascular damage. To dissect the underlying mechanisms in vitro, loss- and gain-of-function assays were performed in HUVECs using siRNA knockdown and adenovirus-mediated overexpression. Mechanistically, chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP-qPCR) and luciferase reporter assays demonstrated that ATF4 directly bound to the isocitrate dehydrogenase 2 (IDH2) promoter and transcriptionally activated its expression. Crucially, IDH2 knockdown recapitulated the detrimental effects of ATF4 silencing, confirming it as an important downstream mediator. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that the endothelial ATF4-IDH2 axis constitutes a novel protective pathway that safeguards mitochondrial redox homeostasis in hypertensive vascular damage. These findings suggest that ATF4-mediated transcriptional reprogramming of mitochondrial antioxidant defense may represent a promising therapeutic strategy for hypertensive vascular damage.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Sarcopenia is an age-related skeletal muscle disorder characterized by progressive decline in muscle mass, strength, and physical performance, leading to frailty, disability, falls, and increased mortality. Although its pathogenesis is multifactorial, growing evidence indicates that vitamin B complex deficiency contributes to muscle deterioration through interconnected metabolic and signaling pathways. This narrative review summarizes current evidence regarding the roles of B vitamins in skeletal muscle biology and their potential contribution to sarcopenia. Vitamin B deficiency impairs mitochondrial energy metabolism by reducing cofactor availability and adenosine triphosphate production, thereby increasing oxidative stress and chronic inflammation. These disturbances may trigger endoplasmic reticulum stress and the integrated stress response, leading to activating transcription factor 4 (ATF4)-dependent induction of growth differentiation factor 15 (GDF15) and fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21) expression. Collectively, these changes disrupt protein homeostasis, suppress anabolic signaling, impair neuromuscular function, and alter myokine secretion by reducing anabolic mediators while increasing catabolic and inflammatory myokines, thereby accelerating muscle loss and functional decline. Current evidence is the strongest for vitamins B6, B9, and B12, whereas mechanistic and clinical data for B2, B3, B5, and B7 remain limited. Overall, vitamin B deficiency can be viewed as a modifiable biological contributor to sarcopenia. Well-designed prospective studies and randomized clinical trials are required to clarify causality, validate biomarkers, and determine whether targeted vitamin B supplementation can enhance exercise- and nutrition-based strategies for preserving muscle health in older adults.
This study aimed to evaluate the antidepressant activity of Piper laetispicum extract and preliminarily explore its underlying mechanism using a zebrafish model of depression combined with quantitative proteomics. A chronic unpredictable mild stress(CUMS) paradigm was employed to establish the depression model. AB strain zebrafish were randomly assigned into four groups: control, model, P. laetispicum, and fluoxetine, with 15 fish in each group. Except the control group, all groups were subjected to CUMS for 2 weeks. Intervention of P. laetispicum extract or fluoxetine lasted for 3 consecutive weeks. Upon completion of the experiment, the pathological morphology of zebrafish brain tissue was observed, and the expression levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha(TNF-α), interleukin-1 beta(IL-1β), brain-derived neurotrophic factor(BDNF), and 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 2A(5-HT2A) were measured in each group. Brain tissue proteins were extracted and subjected to quantitative proteomic analysis to identify differentially expressed proteins(DEPs), which was followed by bioinformatics analysis. Key DEPs were validated using Western blot and RT-qPCR. The results demonstrated that P. laetispicum extract significantly ameliorated CUMS-induced brain histopathological damage, reduced the levels of the inflammatory cytokines TNF-α and IL-1β, and reversed the aberrant expression of BDNF and 5-HT2A. Proteomic profiling identified a total of 11 633 proteins, among which the expression levels of 81 proteins were markedly reversed following P. laetispicum extract treatment. Subsequent validation by Western blot and RT-qPCR confirmed that P. laetispicum significantly modulated the expression of annexin A1(Anxa1) and transcription factor JunB(JunB). Collectively, these findings suggest that P. laetispicum exerts antidepressant effects potentially through the regulation of Anxa1 and JunB expression.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42524084 is a review article
Mutations or deletions affecting the TP53 gene predict a dismal outcome in relapsed acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Loss of p53 function compromises the response to many anti-leukemic therapies, underscoring the need for agents that are effective in TP53-deficient cells. Leukemic blasts depend on de novo pyrimidine synthesis to sustain proliferation, and the mitochondrial enzyme dihydroorotate dehydrogenase (DHODH) is essential for this pathway. While DHODH inhibitors (DHODHis) show preclinical anti-leukemic activity, the efficacy in TP53-deficient contexts has not been tested. Using both isogenic TP53-wildtype and knock-out cell line models and patient-derived xenografts (PDXs), we show that dual inhibition of DHODH and Ataxia Telangiectasia and Rad3-related (ATR) produces pronounced anti-leukemic effects, irrespective of the TP53 status. Through integrated transcriptomic and metabolomic analyses, we show that combined inhibition of DHODH and ATR leads to a reduced flux of glucose into the TCA cycle, accompanied by an increase in oxidative stress. This metabolic phenotype triggers cell death through a mechanism converging on Activating Transcription Factor 4 (ATF4), a key integrator of cellular responses to metabolic and oxidative stress, which operates largely independently of p53. Taken together, our findings identify ATF4-mediated cell death as a previously unrecognized vulnerability in TP53-deficient ALL.© 2026 The Author(s). HemaSphere published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of European Hematology Association.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42519037 is a review article
Obesity and alcoholism are major global health burdens driven in part by maladaptive ingestive behaviors. Accordingly, functional foods that curb overeating and excessive alcohol consumption may help prevent these disorders. Ingestion of simple sugars or alcohol increases plasma fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21), which activates oxytocin (OXT) neurons in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVH) and suppresses the specific appetite for sugar and alcohol. D-Allulose and D-tagatose are generally recognized as safe rare sugars and serve as potent inducers of FGF21. Oral administration of these sugars elevates plasma FGF21 to levels sufficient to reduce preference for simple sugars and alcohol without altering palatability. In mice, they also prevent the development of diet-induced obesity and alcohol dependence. Mechanistically, these effects involve activating transcription factor 4 (ATF4)-dependent induction of FGF21 and activation of the FGF21-PVHOXT negative feedback system. Thus, rare sugars such as D-allulose and D-tagatose may improve ingestive behaviors and help prevent obesity and alcoholism.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Japanese Biochemical Society. All rights reserved.
Cognitive improvement is mediated by repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) in Alzheimer's disease (AD), and connectome gradient analysis has important potential to explore more comprehensive information for treatment efficacy. However, it remains unclear whether and how rTMS mediates connectome gradient reconstruction and its spatial neurotransmitter associations in subjects on the AD spectrum.A total of 84 subjects on the AD spectrum underwent 4 weeks of conventional neuronavigated rTMS targeting the left angular gyrus (20 Hz, 20 sessions over 4 weeks, 20 minutes per session), including 60 subjects with true stimulation and 24 with sham stimulation. This study identified functional connectome gradients and investigated their neuroplasticity between pre- and post-rTMS intervention. A support vector regression model was subsequently used to explore the cognitive prediction value of baseline measures. Finally, connectome‒neurotransmitter association analysis was used to investigate neurotransmitter profiles related to rTMS therapeutic efficacy.These findings showed that rTMS treatment mainly mediated the decreased gradient values in the somatomotor regions and such baseline values of these regions showed preliminary predictive value for memory improvement after treatment (R 2: 0.40-0.63, mean absolute error: 1.54-3.19, root mean square error: 1.98-3.94, p = 0.0002). Moreover, connectome-neurotransmitter association analysis suggested spatial associations between these gradient changes and normative metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5) and 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 2A (5HT2a) receptor distributions.rTMS mediates plasticity in high-order metric levels in the brain and is linked to the spatial distributions of specific neurotransmitter receptors in subjects on the AD spectrum.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research & Clinical Interventions published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42482371 is a review article
Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) is an autoimmune thyroid disorder that includes thyroid parenchymal lymphocytic infiltration. Progranulin (PRGN) is an anti-inflammatory glycoprotein encoded by granulin precursor gene (GRN) and involved in the pathogenesis of several diseases. Neutrophil and platelet lymphocyte ratios (NLR, PLR) are established inflammatory markers. The study aimed to evaluate PRGN, GRN rs3785817 variant, NLR and PLR in hypothyroid HT. Complete blood count, serum TSH, free T4, anti-TPO, PRGN, and GRN rs3785817 genotyping were performed for 45 hypothyroid HT patients and 45 healthy controls. Results showed slightly significantly decreased serum PRGN levels in hypothyroid HT patients compared to controls (p = 0.048). NLR displayed significant higher levels in patients in comparison to controls (p = 0.036). The genotype distribution of GRN rs3785817 showed no significant variation between patients and controls with the predominance of the AA genotype in both groups. However, among patients, there was a significantly increased serum PRGN level in patients with AG+GG genotypes compared to those with AA genotype (p = 0.014). In conclusion, GRN rs3785817 is neither a risk nor a protective factor associated with hypothyroid HT. Nevertheless, PRGN variability between the rs3785817 genotypes may suggest their potential roles in hypothyroid HT.
Transactive response DNA binding protein 43 kDa (TDP-43) proteinopathy has been linked to cognitive decline and often co-occurs with hippocampal sclerosis (HS). To identify genetic markers of TDP-43 proteinopathy and HS, we performed genome-wide association studies (GWASs) of HS and TDP-43 inclusions.Genetic data were obtained through the Alzheimer Disease Genetics Consortium and collaborating sites (HS: N = 9509; TDP-43: N = 4669). Statistical analyses included association analysis with HS and TDP-43 inclusions and meta-analysis, a mediation analysis, and fine mapping of the transmembrane protein 106B (TMEM106B) region.Two regions achieved genome-wide significance with TDP-43: apolipoprotein E (APOE) and TMEM106B. Three loci reached genome-wide significance with HS: APOE, TMEM106B, and granulin precursor (GRN). Fine mapping of TMEM106B identified 93 variants in the credible set. Mediation analyses showed that genetic effects on HS were partially mediated through TDP-43 proteinopathy.We identified associations with TDP-43 inclusion and HS, showing shared genetic risk across frontotemporal lobar degeneration, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Alzheimer's disease, and limbic-predominant age-related TDP-43 encephalopathy.HS and TDP-43 contribute to dementia and often co-occur. The etiology and relationship of HS and TDP-43 remains unclear. HS and TDP-43 share genetic risk factors in the genes APOE and TMEM106B. Genes have direct effects on HS, with additional effects mediated through TDP-43.© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
A human periodontal ligament cell line stably overexpressing the granulin precursor gene (GRN) was established through lentiviral mediation to explore the effects of GRN on the proliferation and osteogenic capacity of human periodontal ligament cells (hPDLCs). In the present study, a homologous recombinant lentiviral plasmid, pLV-GRN, was constructed and transfected into the hPDLCs. The expression levels of GRN and progranulin were assessed using reverse transcription-quantitative (RT-q)PCR and western blotting and the effect of GRN on the proliferative capacity was determined using the MTT assay. The osteogenic capacity of human periodontal cells overexpressing GRN was evaluated. The results showed that successful construction and transfection of the homologous recombinant lentiviral plasmid pLV-GRN led to the development of a stable periodontal cell line overexpressing GRN. The MTT assay results revealed an enhanced proliferative capacity in the pLV-GRN group compared with that in the hPDLCs and pLV-puro groups (P<0.05). Alizarin red staining and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity assays indicated a significantly increased osteogenic capacity in the pLV-GRN group compared with the hPDLCs and pLV-puro groups (P<0.01). RT-qPCR demonstrated strong expression of the osteogenic genes ALP, runt-related transcription factor 2 (Runx2) and osteopontin (OPN) in the periodontal cells of the pLV-GRN group (P<0.05), whereas western blotting results corroborated the high expression of the osteogenic genes Runx-2 and OPN in the periodontal cells of the pLV-GRN group (P<0.05). In summary, the overexpression of GRN significantly enhanced the proliferation and osteogenic capacity of hPDLCs. These findings provide an experimental foundation for periodontal tissue regeneration.Copyright: © 2024 Yao et al.
The imbalance of the skin redox system is regarded as a crucial factor contributing to the loss of melanocytes in vitiligo. However, it remains unclear whether alterations in signal transmission between melanocytes and other cells impact the homeostasis of the skin microenvironment. Hence, leveraging single-cell sequencing and microarray data, we investigated the role of cell-cell and ligand receptor interactions in the pathogenesis of vitiligo. We discovered that the granulin-sortilin 1 ligand-receptor serves as an essential bridge for communication between melanocytes and other skin cells in normal skin, yet it is significantly downregulated in vitiligo lesions. Enrichment analysis indicates that the activation of granulin-sortilin 1 ligand-receptor is closely associated with the regulation of oxidative stress. In vitro experiments have verified that progranulin, the protein encoded by the granulin gene, enhances the ability of melanocytes to resist cell death induced by reactive oxygen species and markedly upregulates the expression of nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 and Heme Oxygenase-1. Notably, this process can be impeded by the interaction inhibitor. Moreover, the expression of nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 might be linked to the transcription of transcription factor EB activated by progranulin. In conclusion, the granulin-sortilin 1 ligand-receptor can activate the intracellular antioxidant system to counteract melanocyte death. The impairment of the granulin-sortilin 1 ligand-receptor may be implicated in melanocyte loss in vitiligo.© 2025. The Author(s).
It has been reported that tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) play a complicated role in cancer occurrence and development, immune escape, and immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) resistance. However, the role of granulin precursor (GRN) highly expressed macrophages (hereafter refer to GRN+ macrophages) in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains poorly understood. Herein, we systematically integrated multiomics analysis of human tumor tissues to illustrate the functional role of GRN+ macrophages in HCC. GRN is selectively expressed by TAMs in different type of cancers including HCC, and was significantly associated with poor prognosis in several type of cancer. GRN was closely correlated with infiltration levels of most immune cells, especially the M2 macrophage cells in various cancers. In particular, both mRNA and protein expression level of GRN was significantly upregulated in HCC. Compared with tumor tissue, GRN was more significantly expressed in the stroma area between HCC tissues and adjacent non-tumor tissues. High expression of GRN was significantly correlated with M2-polarization of macrophages and T-cell exhaustion in HCC. GRN+ macrophages communicated with intratumoral immune cells, especially CD8+ T cells. Functionally, GRN+ macrophages contacted with CD8+ T cells, which inducing T-cell exhaustion. Our study offers a comprehensive understanding of the clinical relevance and immunological role of GRN+ macrophages in HCC, indicating its potential role as a promising target for immunotherapeutic strategies.© 2025 Li et al.
Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) is an aggressive and heterogeneous subtype, representing 15% of lung cancer cases. Although SCLC initially responds to etoposide and platinum (EP) chemotherapy, nearly all patients relapse with resistant tumors. While recent advances in immunotherapy have shown promise, only 10-20% of patients benefit, and effective stratification methods are lacking. The mechanisms of resistance to both therapeutics remain obscure. In this study, we aimed to gain insights into those leveraging a recent surge in the field of SCLC genomics. We constructed a regulatory network for SCLC and identified granulin precursor (GRN) as a hub of EP response associated genes. GRN-low patients showed improved survival with chemotherapy, while GRN-high patients exhibited resistance. GRN overexpression in SCLC cells conferred resistance to EP treatment and suppressed neuroendocrine features. GRN and its associated genes were linked to cancer cell intrinsic immunogenicity, and single-cell RNA-seq data revealed that GRN expression is particularly high in subsets of tumor-associated macrophages. In concordance with these findings, GRN-low tumors showed significantly better survival with chemo-immunotherapy, while GRN-high tumors did not benefit from additional immunotherapy. GRN-high tumors, associated with non-neuroendocrine (non-NE) subtypes, had a higher level of macrophage infiltration, potentially contributing to immunotherapy resistance. These results highlight GRN as a critical regulator of chemo-resistance and a potential biomarker for immunotherapy resistance in SCLC. Targeted therapeutic strategies for GRN-low patients could improve outcomes, while new approaches are needed for GRN-high patients. Overall, our findings implicate GRN as a bridge between chemotherapy and immunotherapy resistance through GRN-mediated mechanisms.© 2025. The Author(s).
Ceroid lipofuscinosis type 11 (CLN11) is a very rare disease, being reported in only 13 unrelated families so far. Further reports are necessary to comprehend the clinical phenotype of this condition. This article aims to report 9 additional cases of CLN11 from 9 unrelated Latin American families presenting with relatively slow disease progression.This was a retrospective observational study including patients with CLN11. Patients were identified through an active search for granulin precursor gene (GRN) pathogenic variants across the entire database of next-generation sequencing of a commercial laboratory and by contacting attending physicians to check for clinical and radiologic findings compatible with a neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis phenotype.Nine CLN11 patients from unrelated families were evaluated. Age of onset varied between 3 to 17 years. The most common findings were visual impairment, cerebellar ataxia, seizures, myoclonus, and cognitive decline. One patient had a previously unreported finding of cervical, perioral, and tongue myoclonus. Most of the patients were able to walk unassisted after an average of 14.2 years (SD 4.76 y) from disease onset.We describe 9 new cases of a very rare type of neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (CLN11) from Latin America with a recurrent p.(Gln257ProfsTer27) and a novel p.(Cys83Ter) nonsense variant. Our findings suggest that a slowly progressive neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis might be a clue for the diagnosis of CLN11.Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Follicular atresia in chickens seriously reduced the egg production and economic benefits of chickens. LncRNA plays a key role in the process of follicular atresia. In this study, RNA-seq and Ribo-seq were performed on normal and atretic follicles of Dahen broilers to screen out lncRNAs that may regulate follicle atresia, and to study the molecular mechanisms of their regulation. GRN granulin precursor (lncGRN, ID: 101748909) was highly expressed in atretic follicles with translational ability. A molecular regulatory network of lncGRN/miR-103-3p/FBXW7 was constructed through bioinformatics analysis and dual luciferase reporting. LncGRN promoted the expression of FBXW7 by adsorption of miR-103-3p, thereby inhibiting the proliferation of chicken granulosa cells (GCs), promoting apoptosis of chicken GCs and inhibiting steroid hormone synthesis thus induced follicular atresia. Meanwhile, we also found a micropeptide named GRN-122aa derived by lncGRN which can promote follicular atresia. In conclusion, our study found that lncGRN promoted follicular atresia through the lncGRN/miR-103-3p/FBXW7 axis and the translation micropeptide GRN-122aa. This study provided new insight into the post-transcriptional regulation mechanism of lncGRN suggesting that lncGRN may act as a potential to regulate chicken follicle development, and provided a theoretical argument for further improving the egg production of chickens through molecular breeding.Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Parkinson's disease is increasingly prevalent. It progresses from the pre-motor stage (characterised by non-motor symptoms like REM sleep behaviour disorder), to the disabling motor stage. We need objective biomarkers for early/pre-motor disease stages to be able to intervene and slow the underlying neurodegenerative process. Here, we validate a targeted multiplexed mass spectrometry assay for blood samples from recently diagnosed motor Parkinson's patients (n = 99), pre-motor individuals with isolated REM sleep behaviour disorder (two cohorts: n = 18 and n = 54 longitudinally), and healthy controls (n = 36). Our machine-learning model accurately identifies all Parkinson patients and classifies 79% of the pre-motor individuals up to 7 years before motor onset by analysing the expression of eight proteins-Granulin precursor, Mannan-binding-lectin-serine-peptidase-2, Endoplasmatic-reticulum-chaperone-BiP, Prostaglaindin-H2-D-isomaerase, Interceullular-adhesion-molecule-1, Complement C3, Dickkopf-WNT-signalling pathway-inhibitor-3, and Plasma-protease-C1-inhibitor. Many of these biomarkers correlate with symptom severity. This specific blood panel indicates molecular events in early stages and could help identify at-risk participants for clinical trials aimed at slowing/preventing motor Parkinson's disease.© 2024. The Author(s).
Prior research has shown that granulin precursor (GRN, also termed PGRN) is closely linked to aphasia. However, there has been little research on the mechanism of action of GRN in post-stroke aphasia (PSA).In this study, RT-qPCR was used to identify variations in gene expression, while RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) was utilized to acquire transcriptional profiles. The Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) databases were employed for bioinformatics analysis.GRN was considerably more active in PSA subjects. After silencing the GRN, 197 transcripts had differential expression, and 237 alternative splicing events (ASEs) were substantially affected. The analysis of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) using GO and KEGG approaches showed that these genes have various molecular functions and are significantly enriched in metabolic signaling pathways. Regarding Alternative Splicing (AS), the GO and KEGG analyses revealed numerous functional genes involved in transcription and metabolism.The knockdown of GRN has been shown to be associated with alterations in transcription, metabolism, and ASEs, potentially impacting transcriptional and metabolic pathways through its involvement in AS. Furthermore, GRN knockdown is associated with nervous system disease-related gene transcription and AS processes, as well as its involvement in G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) and wingless/integrated (Wnt) signaling pathways, which impact the initiation and resolution of PSA.Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Prolonged exposure to crystalline silica (CS) induces silicosis characterized as pulmonary fibrosis. Innate and adaptive immune responses are orchestrated in silicosis pathogenesis. Herein, we delineated the specific role of innate immunity, utilizing recombination-activating gene 1 (Rag1)-knockout mice, which are deficient in adaptive immunity. Unexpectedly, CS-exposure drove more severe lung fibrosis in the Rag1-/- mice than wild-type counterparts, due to a hyperactive NLRP3/Caspase-1 signaling in lung macrophages and a concomitant expansion of lung innate lymphoid cells (ILCs). Specifically, group 1 ILCs (ILC1s) and group 3 ILCs (ILC3s) expanded, and the ILC3s/ILC1s ratio lifted with silicosis progression. Depleting experiment confirmed that ILCs drive silicosis in Rag1-/- mice. Specifically, interleukin-18 receptor α (IL-18Rα) marked pathogenic ILCs with the characteristics of multi-cytokine productions, high proliferation, and potent activation status. Lung macrophages regulated the pathogenic function of IL-18Rα+ ILCs, promoting silicosis in Rag1-/- mice. NLRP3 and IL-18 exerted distinct effects on IL-18Rα+ ILCs that both NLRP3 and IL-18 similarly modulated ILC1s, whereas IL-18 affected cytokine production by ILC3s without influencing their emergence in the lungs. Our study extended the knowledge about how the innate immune response drives CS-induced fibrosis and provided intervention targets for silicosis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42561162 is a review article
This study investigated whether gasdermin E (GSDME) deficiency attenuates caerulein/lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced severe acute pancreatitis (SAP) in mice. Wild-type (WT) and Gsdme-knockout (KO) mice were assigned to PBS or caerulein/LPS groups. SAP was induced by repeated intraperitoneal caerulein injections for 2 consecutive days followed by a single LPS injection. Pancreatic injury was assessed by body weight change, pancreas-to-body weight ratio, serum amylase and lipase, and histopathology. Inflammatory responses were evaluated by serum cytokines, serum and pancreatic IL-33, HMGB1 subcellular distribution, and MPO/F4/80 immunohistochemistry. Cell death and gasdermin pathway activation were assessed by TUNEL staining and Western blotting. Compared with WT mice subjected to caerulein/LPS challenge, Gsdme-deficient mice showed less body weight loss, lower histopathological scores, and attenuated systemic inflammatory responses. Serum and pancreatic IL-33 levels, HMGB1 nuclear-to-cytoplasmic translocation, and circulating HMGB1 were also reduced in KO mice. Consistently, pancreatic MPO- and F4/80-positive inflammatory cell infiltration, TUNEL positivity, and the cleaved caspase-3/total caspase-3 ratio were reduced in KO mice. Cleaved and full-length GSDME were absent in KO pancreatic tissues, whereas caerulein/LPS treatment increased cleaved GSDME levels in WT mice. The cleaved caspase-1/total caspase-1 ratio and cleaved GSDMD expression increased after caerulein/LPS challenge in both genotypes, but neither was further elevated in KO mice, indicating no detectable compensatory upregulation of the canonical caspase-1/GSDMD pathway at the examined time point. Collectively, Gsdme deficiency alleviated caerulein/LPS-induced pancreatic injury and systemic inflammation, indicating that the caspase-3/GSDME axis contributes importantly, but not exclusively, to experimental SAP.
Diabetic kidney disease (DKD) is a major driver of chronic kidney disease (CKD) and end-stage renal disease (ESRD). Despite existing therapeutic approaches, significant residual risk persists, highlighting the need for improved treatment strategies. TLR4 and AT1R signaling pathways play critical roles in DKD pathogenesis. The present study investigates the therapeutic potential of a novel ligustrazine-telmisartan combination in both in-vivo and in-vitro models of DKD. The streptozotocin (55 mg/kg, i.p.) was administered in Sprague-Dawley rats to induce Type-1 diabetes. After four weeks, animals were treated with ligustrazine (40 and 80 mg/kg/day, i.p.), telmisartan (10 mg/kg/day, p.o.), and combination (ligustrazine 40 mg/kg/day, i.p. + telmisartan 5 mg/kg/day, p.o.). Post-treatment, plasma, urine, and kidney tissues were collected and analyzed for biochemical, histological, and immunohistochemical parameters. In-vitro, high-glucose-rh-TGF-β1-stimulated NRK-52E cells were treated with ligustrazine-50 µM, telmisartan-10µM, and their combination, alongside TAK-242-100nM (TLR4 inhibitor control), and cell samples were processed for cell viability, morphology, immunocytochemistry and immunoblotting. The ligustrazine-telmisartan combination therapy significantly improved metabolic and renal function, while histology revealed notable preservation of renal architecture. The co-treatment significantly suppressed TLR4/NF-κB/NLRP3, AT1R/TGF-β/β-catenin, along with IL-18, IL-1β, and caspase-1 in diabetic rats, as revealed by immunohistochemistry and qRT-PCR. Moreover, co-treatment reduced TLR4, p-NF-κB, α-SMA, vimentin, and collagen-I expression in NRK-52E cells as assessed by immunocytochemistry and immunoblotting. Collectively, the combination therapy showed greater anti-inflammatory and antifibrotic potential than monotherapies. These findings indicate that ligustrazine with telmisartan enhances renoprotection and allows a lower telmisartan dose, potentially reducing its side effects and improving overall therapeutic outcomes in DKD.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Golden pompano (Trachinotus ovatus) is an economically important marine fish in southern China, but intensive aquaculture has increased the risk of bacterial diseases, especially streptococcosis caused by Streptococcus agalactiae. As a key component of innate immunity, the NLRP3 inflammasome (NOD-like receptor family, pyrin domain containing 3 inflammasome) regulates inflammatory responses through caspase-1 (Cysteine-aspartic acid protease 1) activation and the maturation of IL-1β (Interleukin-1β) and IL-18 (Interleukin-18). In this study, five core genes associated with the NLRP3 inflammasome pathway in T. ovatus including ToNLRP3, ToASC, ToCaspase-1, ToIL-1β, and ToIL-18 were cloned and characterized. Sequence analysis showed that these genes contain conserved functional domains and share evolutionary conservation with teleost homologs. Tissue distribution analysis revealed broad expression, with relatively high levels in immune-related and mucosal tissues, including the spleen, head kidney, gill, intestine, and skin. After S. agalactiae challenge, all five genes showed inducible and tissue-dependent expression patterns, supporting their involvement in the antibacterial immune response. Fluorescence-based assays showed that ToNLRP3 was mainly localized in the cytoplasm and that ToASC interacted with ToCaspase-1, indicating the potential for inflammasome-like complex assembly. These findings provide a basis for understanding inflammasome-related immunity in golden pompano.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Anastomotic leak is among the most feared complications in colorectal surgery. Patients with inflammatory bowel disease are particularly susceptible to impaired anastomotic healing, partially because of bacterial dysbiosis. Aiming to improve anastomotic healing, we examined the role of microbiota-targeted prehabilitation with a complex prebiotic supplement containing arabinogalactan, humic substances, and micronutrients in a rat model of experimental colitis.Rats were subjected to standard or prebiotic-supplemented diets for 4 weeks before receiving water or dextran sulfate sodium to induce colitis. Then, fecal samples were collected for microbial analysis with 16S ribosomal ribonucleic acid gene sequencing before colon resection surgery. Symptoms, laboratory parameters, and histopathologic changes were measured to determine colitis severity. To evaluate anastomotic healing, immunohistochemistry for caspase-1, claudin-1, matrix metalloproteinase-9, and a colorimetric hydroxyproline assay were performed after macroscopic assessment and bursting pressure tests.Prebiotic pretreatment protected against colitis-related microbial shifts by increasing the abundance of Lachnospiraceae NK4A136, decreasing Romboutsia, and preventing severe colonic damage caused by dextran sulfate sodium, reflected in improvements in all measured parameters. Prehabilitation with a complex prebiotic supplement enhanced epithelial barrier integrity and strengthened the anastomosis through favorable collagen homeostasis, which correlated with microbial diversity and led to accelerated surgical recovery.Our findings indicate that a complex prebiotic supplement containing arabinogalactan, humic substances, and micronutrients protects against colitis-induced disturbed anastomotic healing, supporting its potential role in microbiota-targeted prehabilitation.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42553369 is a review article
Nucleus pulposus (NP) cell quiescence maintains intervertebral disc homeostasis, while mTORC1 regulates autophagy-lysosomal function and inflammatory secretion to preserve quiescence-rapamycin specifically targets mTORC1. Herein, we fabricated rapamycin-nanoliposomes (rapa-lipos) via ultrasonic dispersion, thin-film dispersion, and filtration to improve rapamycin bioavailability, investigating their role in inhibiting the senescence phenotype of NP cells through β-gal staining, lysosomal staining, transmission electron microscopy, ELISA, and cell cycle inhibitors. The mechanistic effects of rapa-lipos on mTORC1, NLRP3/Caspase-1 pathway (NCP) and autophagy-lysosomal pathway (ALP) were also analyzed by western blotting, immunofluorescence (IF), Si-RNA (raptor), and PCR. In vivo, rapa-lipos were injected into rat intervertebral disc with IL-1β-induced degeneration, assessed via HE staining, x-ray, MRI, and IF. Rapa-lipos exhibited high encapsulation efficiency, favorable drug loading, uniform particle size, and controlled release, suppressing NP cell senescence-related phenotypes (morphological changes, elevated IL-1β/TNF-α secretion, increased β-gal activity, lysosomal dysfunction, upregulated P21/P16 and reduced P27 expression). Mechanistically, rapa-lipos targeted-inhibited mTORC1, then blocked NCP and activated ALP to maintain NP cell quiescence. In vivo, x-ray, MRI and histological evaluation confirmed rapa-lipos mitigated intervertebral disc degeneration. Collectively, rapa-lipos target mTORC1-mediated NCP and ALP to inhibit NP cell senescence, offering a promising strategy for intervertebral disc degeneration prevention.© 2026 The Author(s). Bioengineering & Translational Medicine published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Institute of Chemical Engineers.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42511983 is a review article
The selection of the appropriate energy substrate under different physiological conditions is a key aspect of the energy metabolism homeostasis. We here show that Nos1 (nitric oxide synthase 1)-expressing cells in the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus (PVH) serve as a pivotal node for controlling whole-body fat consumption in male mice. Nos1 neurons account for ~30% of PVH neurons that convey signals via polysynaptic pathways to individual peripheral tissues, including skeletal muscle and brown (BAT) and white (WAT) adipose tissues. Activation of these Nos1 neurons in the PVH area induces WAT lipolysis and fat oxidation in other peripheral tissues via the sympathetic nervous system, thereby increasing whole-body fat consumption. Inhibition of these neurons abolishes the increase in fat consumption during the light period, whereas long-term silencing lead to obesity independent of energy intake. These neurons are also necessary for cold-induced thermogenesis in BAT and the rapid increase in fat consumption elicited by food deprivation or other stressors. Nos1 neurons in the PVH area are therefore essential for controlling fat consumption and energy homeostasis.© 2026. The Author(s).
D-ribose-L-cysteine (DRc) has been shown to protect against copper-induced neurotoxicity. However, its potential protective effect against copper-induced testicular toxicity has not been previously investigated. The present study aimed to evaluate the protective efficacy of DRc against copper-induced gonadotoxicity and to elucidate the underlying mechanisms using complementary in vivo and in silico approaches. Male Swiss mice were administered oral treatments of copper sulfate [CuSO4 (100 mg/kg)] and/or DRc (10, 25, and 50 mg/kg) once a day for 28 days. After euthanization, the epididymal sperm were immediately subjected to semen analysis, and the excised testicular tissues were processed for biochemical and histomorphological assays. In parallel, network pharmacology analysis was performed to predict key molecular targets and pathways associated with DRc-mediated gonadoprotection. DRc significantly improved copper-induced reproductive toxicity, as evidenced by improvements in sperm count, motility, viability, morphology, gonadosomatic index, testosterone levels, and testicular histoarchitecture. These protective effects were accompanied by a marked reduction in oxidative stress (decreased levels of MDA and NO, and increased levels of GSH and SOD), inflammation (e.g., decreased IL-6 and TNF-α), and apoptosis (e.g., decreased caspase-3). Network pharmacology analysis identified 19 targets, including caspase-3 (CasP3), X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP), nitric oxide synthase 1 (NOS1), Janus kinase 2 (JAK2), and DNA repair protein (RAD50), suggesting coordinated regulation of oxidative stress, inflammatory, apoptotic, and DNA repair pathways. Taken together, DRc mitigates copper-induced gonadotoxicity through modulation of oxidative-inflammatory, apoptotic, and DNA repair machinery.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
The mammillary body (MB) has traditionally been regarded as a relay station for the hippocampus and plays a pivotal role in the Papez circuit. However, its molecular and cellular organization remains inadequately characterized. This study focuses on the horizontally symmetrically distributed neurotensin (Nts)-expressing and nitric oxide synthase 1 (Nos1)-expressing neurons in the MB, demonstrating that Grik4 (encoding a high-affinity kainate receptor subunit) underlies their distinct electrophysiological properties. Within neural circuits, Nts and Nos1 neurons receive excitatory inputs from the ventral subiculum and send parallel excitatory projections to the dorsomedial and ventrolateral subdivisions of the anteroventral thalamus (AV). These 2 cell type-specific circuits are essential for working memory and exhibit selective activation during the maintenance phase with a marked temporal difference. Together, our findings establish a direct link from molecular identity to circuit architecture and cognitive processing by demonstrating that molecularly distinct Nts and Nos1 neurons constitute differential circuits with convergent inputs, divergent outputs, and dissociable roles in working memory maintenance. This work thus reveals a fundamental cross-scale organizational principle-molecule, cell, circuit, function-within the MB.Copyright © 2026 Yiqing Guo et al.
To study the associations of the serum concentration of NOS1AP (Nitric Oxide Synthase 1 Adaptor Protein) with clinical polymorphism and components of metabolic syndrome (MS) in patients with schizophrenia.111 patients with schizophrenia (F20 according to ICD-10) and 22 healthy volunteers were included in the study. Patients underwent a comprehensive clinical, anthropometric, and laboratory examination. Serum NOS1AP was measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Statistical data were processed using Statistica v.12.0 and GraphPad Prism v.8.0. Differences were considered statistically significant at p<0.05.Serum NOS1AP levels in schizophrenia patients were significantly higher than in healthy subjects (p=0.0025). Also, NOS1AP was higher in patients with a predominance of negative symptoms (p=0.0377). In patients with a disease duration of 5 years or more, NOS1AP was significantly higher than in those with less than 5 years (p=0.0162) The type of schizophrenia had no significant effect on NOS1AP levels (p=0.4785). A statistically significant increase in serum NOS1AP levels was observed in patients with concomitant MS compared with those without MS (p=0.0081). In patients with abdominal obesity, serum NOS1AP levels were higher than in those with normal waist circumference (p=0.043). There were no statistically significant differences in NOS1AP levels depending on the presence of hypertension or dyslipidemia.The found patterns suggest a common pathophysiological mechanism mediated by NOS1AP linking psychopathology to metabolic disorders.
Periplaneta americana L. is one of the most famous traditional Chinese medicines (TCMs), and CII-3 is the major bioactive extract of Periplaneta americana L. In recent years, CII-3 has gradually attracted the attention of researchers for its powerful capacity for treating immunocompromised diseases. However, systematical chemical composition investigation and mechanisms on immunomodulation of CII-3 have not been thoroughly scrutinized.The chemical ingredients of CII-3 were determined by ultra-performance liquid chromatography tandem quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry (UPLC-Q-TOF/MS), and immune-enhancing mechanisms and active constituents were investigated by integration of metabolomics with network pharmacology and molecular docking.A total of 25 components were identified in the aqueous extract of CII-3, among which 10 were unambiguously confirmed by comparison with reference standards. In immunosuppressed rats, oral administration of CII-3 normalized biochemical profiles by promoting the secretion of immune-related cytokines (IL-2, IL-6) and immunoglobulins (IgG, IgM), significantly improving immune organ indices, and alleviating pathological lesions in the thymus and spleen. Furthermore, CII-3 stimulation attenuated CTX-induced upregulation of IL-6 mRNA levels and concurrently enhanced IL-2 mRNA expression in these two immune organs. Based on metabolomics analysis, 27 differential metabolites along with 7 crucial metabolic pathways including starch and sucrose metabolism, arginine biosynthesis, porphyrin and chlorophyll metabolism, nicotinate and nicotinamide metabolism, steroid biosynthesis, pyrimidine metabolism and tryptophan metabolism were regulated after CII-3 treatment, suggesting that CII-3 has the potential to target these metabolites and key pathways to improve immunosuppression. Nitric oxide synthase 1 (NOS1), nitric oxide synthase 3 (NOS3), acetylcholinesterase (ACHE), cluster of differentiation 38 (CD38) and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP1) were considered as the pivotal targets, and ginsenine, cyclo (Tyr-Asp), guanosine, tryptophan and inosine were deemed potential active components of CII-3 in alleviating immunosuppression.The proposed approach provides a valuable evidence for demonstrating the material basis of CII-3. The results obtained in the present study elucidated that the potential immunomodulatory activity of CII-3 might be closely associated with these crucial targets, which can modulate the levels of major metabolites through multiple metabolic pathways, thus ameliorating immunosuppression.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Wu, Liu, Lu, Li, Jin, Wang and Zhu.
Male infertility accounts for approximately 50% of reproductive failures, yet its diagnosis and understanding of underlying mechanisms remain limited. The present observational case-control study aimed to examine seminal plasma concentrations of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), 6-keto-prostaglandin F1α (6-keto-PGF1α), F2-isoprostane, superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1), glutathione peroxidase 1 (GPX1), nitric oxide synthase 1 (NOS1), and their ratios, in fertile (n = 22, aged 24-45) and infertile (n = 250, aged 21-47) men, including analyses across specific infertile subgroups, using ELISA assays. Overall, no significant differences were observed between fertile and infertile men. However, subgroup analyses revealed notable differences: PGE2 levels were elevated in asthenozoospermic compared to normozoospermic infertile men (14.23 µg/mL vs. 3.52 µg/mL, p = 0.030), 6-keto-PGF1α levels were higher in teratozoospermic compared to azoospermic individuals (184.97 ng/mL vs. 102.49 ng/mL, p = 0.040), and the PGE2/6-keto-PGF1α ratio showed the greatest intergroup variability. Correlation analyses indicated associations between antioxidant enzymes, prostaglandins and standard semen parameters. These findings provide novel insights into seminal plasma biochemistry and highlight specific parameters and mechanisms that may contribute to functional impairments in infertile men.
In genetic disease, an accurate expression landscape of disease genes and faithful animal models can facilitate genetic diagnoses and therapeutic advances respectively. Previously, we found that variants in NOS1AP, the gene that encodes nitric oxide synthase 1 adaptor protein, cause monogenic nephrotic syndrome. Here, we determine that an intergenic splice product of NOS1AP/Nos1ap and neighboring C1orf226/Gm7694, which prevents NOS1AP from binding to nitric oxide synthase 1, is the predominant isoform in mammalian kidney transcriptional and proteomic data. Gm7694-/- mice, whose allele exclusively disrupts the intergenic product, develop nephrotic syndrome phenotypes. In two male human subjects with nephrotic syndrome, we identify causative NOS1AP splice variants, including one predicted to abrogate intergenic splicing but initially misclassified as benign based on the canonical transcript. Finally, by modifying genetic background, we generate a faithful mouse model of NOS1AP-associated monogenic nephrotic syndrome that responds to anti-proteinuric treatment.© 2025. The Author(s).
Clinacanthus nutans (C. nutans) Lindau, is classified as a top herb which are investigated for different biological activities like antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and vasodilatory effects. Hitherto, no dedicated study has been investigated on the role of C. nutans in L-NAME [N(ω)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester] in-vivo rat model to explore its antihypertensive and renoprotective mechanism by modulating the ROS/NF-κB/MMP-9 pathways both globally in the plasma as well as locally in the kidney by using in-vitro expression study. Present study hypothesized that bioactive polysaccharides leaves of the alcoholic extract of C. nutans (CNBP) could improve the functions of the kidney by its antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, antihypertensive actions by suppression of ROS/NF-κB/MMP-9 and upregulation of eNOS/NO pathways in the plasma and kidney. Thirty male Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats (n = 6) were randomised into five groups namely: Control (C), L-NAME (L) administered in drinking water, L-NAME + 500 mg/kg of C. nutans bioactive polysaccharides (CNBP) (LCN500), L-NAME + 1000 mg/kg of CNBP (LCN1000) and L-NAME + 2000 mg/kg of CNBP (LCN2000) respectively. All treatments were continued for the period of 14 days and physiological data like water intake, urine output, body weight was collected on days 0, 7 and 14. Acute in-vivo study was performed after cannulation of the femoral and carotid arteries where renal cortical blood perfusion (RCBP) was measured along with pulse wave velocity (PWV). Plasma and renal malondialdehyde (MDA), tumour necrosis factor-α(TNF-α), interleukin-6 (IL-6), matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9), intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1), nitric oxide synthase-1 (NOS1) and superoxide dismutase (SOD) were measured. Histopathological studies were done on the kidney tissue at the termination of experiment. Administrations of L-NAME to L group for 14 days resulted in significantly reduced levels of SOD and NOS while significantly elevated levels of MDA, TNF-α, IL-6 and MMP-9 in both plasma and kidney tissue when compared to control group (C). Conversely, treatment of 500, 1000 and 2000 mg/kg of CNBP has significantly reversed the values when same was compared to normal control ( C) group. Administration of L-NAME to L group for 14 days caused significantly increased systolic blood pressure (SBP) and arterial stiffness by increasing the pulse wave velocity (PWV) along with reduced creatinine clearance and renal cortical blood perfusion (RCBP) when compared to C group. Nevertheless, treatment of 500, 1000 and 2000 mg/kg CNBP has significantly reduced the SBP and PWV and raised the creatine clearance and RCBP functions when compared to (L) group. This study devised with the novel findings of 14 days CNBP treatment has suppressed ROS/TNF-α/MMP-9 pathway in the plasma and kidney which is pathological pathway for the kidney injury and hypertension while upregulated eNOS/NO pathways in plasma and kidney which is renoprotective and antihypertensive pathway in L-NAME rat model of hypertension and kidney injury.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
The NOS1AP gene encodes the nitric oxide synthase 1 adaptor protein (NOS1AP), which binds to neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) and regulates nitric oxide (NO) production by dissociating nNOS from NMDA receptors (NMDARs). Notably, NOS1AP expression is upregulated upon NMDAR activation; however, there is no available data regarding its production under the receptor inhibition. The NOS1AP gene is also 1 among more than 1000 genes that are presumed to be associated with the development of schizophrenia. Various animal models of this disorder have been developed, some of which are based on the use of NMDAR antagonists such as dizocilpine (MK-801). In this study, we investigated the expression and production of NOS1AP in rats injected with a low dose of dizocilpine (0.1 mg/kg), as well as in SH-SY5Y and HEK293T cell lines treated with varying concentrations of the same compound (10-200 µM). According to our results, neither the expression of the NOS1AP gene nor the production of NOS1AP protein was affected by dizocilpine treatment.
Breast cancer therapy is compromised by widespread tamoxifen resistance. The modulatory role of Caspase14 in the early growth response protein 1 (EGR1)/hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha (HIF-1α) axis in this context is unclear. We investigated how Caspase14 regulates EGR1/HIF-1α to promote 4-hydroxytamoxifen (4-OHT) resistance in MCF7 cells using cell-based genetic and biochemical assays (small-interference RNA knockdown, plasmid overexpression, Western blotting, qPCR, IC50 assays, and Chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments) across multiple independent experiments. Caspase14 expression correlated with resistance, with IC50 rising from 0.178 µM to 1.575 µM in resistant variants. EGR1 knockdown reduced Caspase14 and downstream targets GLUT3 and BCRP, implicating EGR1 as a key mediator. Resistant cells displayed elevated HIF-1α that enhanced metabolism and migration, further supporting a role in drug resistance. These data indicate that Caspase14 promotes survival, proliferation, and metabolic reprogramming in resistant MCF7 cells via the EGR1/HIF-1α pathway. Our findings reveal a mechanistic link between Caspase14 and endocrine therapy resistance and nominate Caspase14 as a therapeutic target to overcome tamoxifen resistance, with potential translational relevance.© 2026 the author(s), published by De Gruyter, Berlin/Boston.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41854176
Thyroid eye disease (TED) is the most common extrathyroidal manifestation of Graves' disease (GD). Despite its clinical significance, the pathogenic mechanisms and reliable diagnostic biomarkers for TED remain incompletely defined. Tear fluid offers a noninvasive window into disease-related molecular changes.Tear samples were collected using Schirmer strips from 20 patients with TED, 20 patients with GD without ocular involvement, and 14 healthy controls (HCs). Proteomic profiling was performed using a novel pressure cycling technology-pulse data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry (PCT-PulseDIA-MS) workflow.A total of 5966 tear proteins were quantified. Differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified through pairwise group comparisons. Patients with TED showed the most extensive tear proteomic alterations among the studied groups. One hundred seventy-four DEPs were associated with ophthalmopathy, 14 with autoimmunity, and 13 with hyperthyroidism. The ophthalmopathy-related DEPs were enriched in immune regulation, lipid metabolism, vascular function, and extracellular matrix remodeling. Several key DEPs showed significant correlations with clinical, laboratory, and imaging variables. A three-protein panel comprising calcium-activated nucleotidase 1 (CANT1), insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 7 (IGFBP7), and caspase 14 (CASP14) achieved excellent diagnostic performance in distinguishing TED from GD, with an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.971.Tear proteomics reveals distinct molecular signatures shaped by the combined influences of ophthalmopathy, autoimmunity, and hyperthyroidism throughout the pathogenesis of TED, underscoring the potential of tear proteins as early, noninvasive biomarkers for disease diagnosis.
Topically applied hyaluronic acid (HA) hydrates the skin without efficient penetration. This study compared the penetration efficiency of liposomal hyaluronic acid (LPS-HA) against that of conventional HA across different models. Dynamic light scattering revealed that particles of LPS-HA (226.1 nm, PDI 0.2898) were smaller than those of HA (798.4 nm, PDI 0.8709). In Strat-M® membrane assays, permeability over 24 h was higher with LPS-HA (629.37 ± 103.26%) than that of HA (508.04 ± 93.80%; p<0.05). In keratinocytes, LPS-HA increased differentiation markers filaggrin and caspase-14 in a concentration-dependent manner, with maximal induction at 1% (186.6 ± 6.99% and 249.3 ± 8.60%) vs. HA (117.9 ± 7.64% and 130.1 ± 2.90%; p<0.05). In fibroblasts, LPS-HA increased the expression of type I and type III collagens (138.4 and 133.6%) without increasing that of elastin (68.3-94.7%) and reduced UVB-induced IL-6 (79.1-90.2% of UVB; p<0.05). Ex vivo, LPS-HA enhanced HAS-3 mRNA (3.03 ± 0.19-fold vs. 1.31 ± 0.13-fold with HA; p<0.05) and increased epidermal hyaluronan staining. In PM10-treated human skin, LPS-HA reduced inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-6, IL-8, and IL-1β) and suppressed mast cell degranulation, similar to dexamethasone, and reduced ROS formation (124.46 ± 8.45% vs. 169.35 ± 9.40% in PM10-only, p<0.01) without histological abnormalities. In a 20-subject clinical study, corneometric hydration with LPS-HA was higher than that of control (96.99% vs. 36.31%; RM-ANOVA, p<0.001). Collectively, LPS-HA enhanced skin permeation, hydration, and anti-inflammatory responses, supporting its potential as a cosmetic moisturizing ingredient.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40723785 is a review article
Portulaca oleracea L. (PO) is an edible plant with a long medicinal history in traditional Chinese medicine for various inflammatory diseases, including skin disorders such as atopic dermatitis (AD). However, the anti-inflammatory effects and AD-alleviating mechanisms of PO remain unclear.PO aqueous extract was prepared from a water-soluble portion and then mixed with carbomer to obtain a hydrogel, which provided stable drug permeation and absorption in mouse skin. Amantadine acetate was identified as an abundant ingredient and further predicted to be a Janus kinase 1 (JAK1) inhibitor via molecular binding simulation. Mice with AD, established by repeated sensitization with 2,4-dinitrochlorobenzene (DNCB), were topically treated with PO hydrogel. Aurantiamide acetate was applied to HaCaT keratinocytes prior to inflammatory challenge in the presence or absence of JAK1-siRNA. Transcriptional and translational gene expressions associated with cutaneous inflammation or skin barriers were assessed by qPCR and Western blotting, respectively. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays were performed to detect immunoglobulin E and proinflammatory factors in skin tissue or serum. The phosphorylation of JAK1, signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT)3, and STAT6 in keratinocytes and skin were analyzed by Western blotting.In DNCB-sensitized mice, the PO hydrogel ameliorated skin lesions, lowered symptom scores, and reduced epidermal thickness by suppressing proinflammatory factor generation, oxidative stress, and the expression of CD4+. The PO hydrogel promoted the expression of caspase-14 and filaggrin, thereby helping restore skin barrier function in AD. The PO hydrogel and/or aurantiamide acetate inhibited the enzymatic activity of JAK1 and downstream (STAT)3/STAT6 signaling pathways in vitro and in vivo.PO significantly ameliorated skin lesions and restored epidermal barrier function in AD mice. This was achieved by suppressing JAK1 enzymatic activity and JAK1-mediated STAT signaling pathways.Copyright © 2025 Wei, Chen, Lai, Wang, Bian, Zhang and Li.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 40307140
Psoriasis, a chronic inflammatory skin disorder affecting 2-3% of the global population, presents significant treatment challenges, including high recurrence, adverse effects, and socioeconomic burdens. This study explores the therapeutic potential of sericin-based nanofibers and rice-encapsulated nanosericin (ReS) as innovative treatments, aiming to address current limitations by enhancing drug delivery, stability, and efficacy, and providing a targeted approach to managing this complex condition.This study investigates the efficacy of sericin nanofibers and derivatives, including ReS, for psoriasis treatment using a 3D artificial human skin model. Comprehensive evaluations were conducted through histopathological, immunohistochemical, molecular, and proteomic analyses.Results showed that desolvation with glutaraldehyde crosslinking produced stable nanofibrils, while desolvation without crosslinking yielded nanogranules; nanoforms demonstrated high biocompatibility and safety. Treatments with sericin, rice extract, nanosericin, and ReS alleviated psoriasis-induced histopathology, with downregulation of IL-1β, WNT, and β-defensin particularly in the ReS and rice extract groups, suggesting an immunomodulatory effect. Caspase-3 reduction was more pronounced in the sericin and nanosericin groups. Proteomic analysis revealed notable exosomal protein involvement, with sericin modulating cell death through the PAK-2p34 pathway and proteasome activity, while nanosericin enhanced glycolysis and gluconeogenesis via exosomal proteins. Both ReS and nanosericin activated antioxidant pathways, mediated by upregulation of TGF-β and Nrf-2, respectively, especially sericin-based treatment through the selenoamino acid metabolism pathway. ReS further reduced keratinocyte differentiation by targeting cornified envelope proteins, correlating with reduced WNT expression. Gene expression analysis confirmed anti-inflammatory effects and skin barrier restoration, as evidenced by decreased S100-family proteins and increased filaggrin, caspase-14, and involucrin.ReS and nanosericin show significant therapeutic potential for psoriasis by targeting immunomodulatory pathways, modulating keratinocyte activity, reducing oxidative stress, and enhancing skin barrier restoration. Future research should optimize scalability, assess long-term safety, and explore synergistic effects with existing therapies, while further investigating molecular mechanisms for targeted treatment advancements.© 2025 Sukphopetch et al.
To investigate the effect of joss-stick moxibustion on the balance of helper T cell 17 (Th17)/regulatory T cell (Treg) through interleukin-6 (IL-6)/signal transduction and transcriptional activator 3 (STAT3) pathway in acute eczema (AE) rats.A total of 24 male SD rats were randomly divided into blank control, AE model, boric acid solution (BAS) washing, and moxibustion groups, with 6 rats in each group. The AE model was established by external application of 7% dinitrochlorobenzene (DNCB, 100 μL) to the abdominal skin once for the first day, 3 days later, the 5% DNCB to the right back sin, every three days for 3 times. Rats of the blank control group received external application of distilled water at the skin and those of the BAS washing group received external application of 3% BAS solution wet packing. Rats of the moxibustion group received local heat stimulation of joss-stick moxibustion at the injured skin locus for 30 min, once a day, 5 days a week, for 2 weeks. At the end of the experiments, the injured skin (on the right side of the back) and the healthy skin on the left side of the back were sampled using a round puncher (6 mm in diameter) for calculating the skin swelling degree. The inhibition rate equals to the skin swelling degree /weight of the healthy skin×100%. The content of serum IL-6 was detected using ELISA , the expression levels of STAT3 and ROR-γt mRNAs in the injured skin tissue were detected using real-time fluorescence quantitative PCR, and the expression levels of p-STAT3, ROR-γt, and Foxp3 protein were detected using Western blot. The immunoactivities of filaggrin (FLG) and Caspase-14 in the injured skin tissue were detected by immunohistochemistry.Compared with the blank control group, the topical skin swelling degree, inhibition rate, serum IL-6 content, expression levels of STAT3 and ROR-γt mRNAs, and p-STAT3, ROR-γt protein expression levels were significantly increased (P<0.01, P<0.05), while the expression level of Foxp3 protein and the immunoactivities of FLG and Caspase-14 were markedly down-regulated (P<0.01) in the model group. In comparison with the model group, both the increase and decrease of the aforementioned 10 indexes after the modeling were reversed in the BAS washing and moxibustion groups (P<0.01, P<0.05). No significant differences were found between the BAS washing and moxibustion groups in the abovementioned 10 indexes.Joss-stick moxibustion can reduce the inflammatory response in AE rats, which may be related to its functions in suppressing the overexpression of IL-6/STAT3 signaling pathway to promote the restoration of Th17/Treg balance, thus normalizing the levels of FLG and Caspase-14.
The skin serves as an essential barrier against pathogens and external insults, preventing moisture loss. Chronic skin conditions such as atopic dermatitis stem from impairments in skin barrier function. Circadian rhythms affect skin blood flow and barrier characteristics, which are significant for understanding atopic dermatitis. Cinnamomum cassia bark, commonly known as cinnamon, is extensively utilized in both modern and Traditional Chinese Medicine for its therapeutic properties in managing chronic diseases. This study aimed to investigate the potential use of Cinnamomum cassia bark in enhancing skin barrier function. We examined the impact of Cinnamomum cassia bark extract (CCBE) on circadian clock-mediated enhancement of the skin barrier. CCBE enhanced the expression of keratinocyte differentiation markers, including keratin 10, filaggrin, caspase 14, and calpain-1. CCBE also increased the production of hyaluronic acid protein. Additionally, CCBE improved the circadian rhythm of period circadian regulator 2 (PER2). Notably, CCBE upregulated the expression of keratinocyte differentiation markers and PER2 specifically during the morning hours. Furthermore, we discovered that siRNA-mediated PER2 knockdown diminished the increase in keratinocyte differentiation markers induced by CCBE. These findings demonstrate that CCBE can regulate the differentiation of keratinocytes in a time-of-day-dependent manner via the circadian clock. CCBE augmented phosphorylation of p38 and JNK, while the CCBE-induced enhancement in FLG expression and PER2 circadian rhythm was reduced by p38 MAPK inhibitors. These results suggest that CCBE can strengthen the skin barrier diurnally via the p38 MAPK pathway, representing a novel and more effective method for enhancing skin barrier function that accommodates daily variations in skin barrier properties.Copyright: © 2025 Yeom et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42443498 is a review article
Previous studies have suggested that tumorigenesis of adenomatoid odontogenic tumor (AOT) may involve the activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (MAPK/ERK) pathway. However, research on other oncogenic signaling pathways in AOT remains limited.This study aimed to investigate gene mutations (Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog (KRAS), catenin beta 1 (CTNNB1), and phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase catalytic subunit alpha (PIK3CA)) and their associated protein expressions (phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1 and 2 (p-ERK1/2), β-catenin, and phosphorylated mechanistic target of rapamycin (p-mTOR)) in AOT cases. The association between gene mutations and protein expression was also examined.In total, eight formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded AOT tissue samples were manually micro-dissected for DNA extraction. Polymerase chain reaction was performed. Positive samples underwent DNA sequencing. Mutations were analyzed in KRAS exon 2 (codons 12 and 13), CTNNB1 exon 3 (codons 32-45), and PIK3CA exon 9 (codons 542-549). Protein expression was assessed using immunohistochemistry.KRAS mutations (specifically G12R and G12V) were detected in three of the eight cases (37.5%). CTNNB1 mutation (T42I) was identified in one of six cases (16.7%), whereas no PIK3CA mutation was observed. Moreover, moderate expression of p-ERK1/2 and p-mTOR were found in tumor cells of AOT. β-catenin accumulation was detected in seven cases (87.5%), predominantly showing membranous and cytoplasmic localization with no nuclear β-catenin expression. Statistical analysis indicated no association between gene mutations and protein expression.KRAS mutations and p-ERK1/2 expression support a potential role of MAPK/ERK signaling in AOT pathogenesis. The absence of PIK3CA mutations despite p-mTOR expression may in part suggest mutation-independent activation of the PI3K/mTOR pathway. The lack of nuclear β-catenin accumulation may suggest that canonical Wnt signaling is less likely to significantly contribute to AOT tumorigenesis. Further studies with larger cohorts and investigations of additional molecules related to these pathways are warranted.
WNT2B is canonically characterized as a secreted WNT-family ligand, which is transported to the extracellular space via the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-Golgi pathway and binds to cell surface FZDs (frizzled class receptors) to trigger downstream signaling cascades. Here, we identify a previously unrecognized non-secretory intracellular function of WNT2B in impairing endosomal trafficking to inhibit macroautophagy/autophagy, as well as a non-canonical LC3B-II-dependent autophagic secretion mechanism for WNT2B. Specifically, the non-secretory intracellular pool of WNT2B via its conserved middle domain (MD) binds to the spectrin repeat domain (SRD) of WASHC5, competitively displacing WASHC1 and thereby disrupting WASH complex assembly and inhibiting WASHC1-mediated actin polymerization on early endosomes. This disruption impairs endosomal cargo trafficking, including the core autophagy protein ATG9A, leading to defective autophagy initiation and subsequent accumulation of pro-inflammatory and pro-fibrotic factors in fibroblasts. We validated this mechanism in vivo using a TNBS-induced mouse model of chronic colitis. Fibroblast-specific wnt2b deletion restores autophagy, reduces pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion, and ameliorates intestinal fibrosis. Consistently, in Crohn disease (CD) patient tissues, elevated WNT2B in fibrotic regions negatively correlates with autophagy activity, and positively correlates with pro-fibrotic phenotypes, and clinical disease severity. Moreover, we identify a novel LC3B-II-dependent autophagic secretion pathway for WNT2B, which is distinct from the conventional ER-to-Golgi-dependent protein secretion. Collectively, our study delineates a novel non-canonical WNT2B-WASH complex-ATG9A regulatory axis through which WNT2B impairs endosomal trafficking and disrupts autophagy, ultimately amplifying inflammation and fibrosis. This study suggests that WNT2B may serve as a promising therapeutic target for CD and autophagy-associated fibrotic disorders.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; AAV: adeno-associated virus; ACTA2: actin alpha 2, smooth muscle; ARPC2: actin related protein 2/3 complex subunit 2; ATG: autophagy related; CCN3: cellular communication network factor 3; CD: Crohn disease; CK666: 2-fluoro-N-[2-(2-methyl-1H-indol-3-yl)ethyl]benzamide; COL1A1: collagen type I alpha 1 chain; Co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CTNNB1: catenin beta 1; DBcAMP: dibutyryl cyclic adenosine monophosphate; DPT: dermatopontin; EEA1: early endosome antigen 1; EGFR: epidermal growth factor receptor; ELISA: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; ESCRT: endosomal sorting complexes required for transport; EV: extracellular vesicle; FRAP: fluorescence recovery after photobleaching; FL: full length; FZD: frizzled class receptor; GST: glutathione S-transferase; HIF: human intestinal fibroblast; HMGB1: high mobility group box 1; IKBKB: inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase subunit beta; IL6: interleukin 6; LDELS: LC3-dependent EV loading and secretion; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MD: middle domain; MEFs: mouse embryonic fibroblasts; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; MVB: multivesicular body; NFKB: nuclear factor kappa B; NFKBIA: NFKB inhibitor alpha; PDCD6IP: programmed cell death 6 interacting protein; PLA: proximity ligation assay; RELA/p65: RELA proto-oncogene, NF-kB subunit; SAFB: scaffold attachment factor B; SES-CD: Simple Endoscopic Score for Crohn disease; SIM: super-resolution structured illumination microscopy; SMAD3: SMAD family member 3; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; SRD: spectrin repeat domain; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TFRC: transferrin receptor; TGFB1: transforming growth factor beta 1; TGOLN2: trans-golgi network protein 2; TNBS: 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid; TNF: tumor necrosis factor; VCA: Verprolin homology, Central and Acidic; WASHC: WASH complex subunit; WLS: Wnt ligand secretion mediator; WCL: whole cell lysates; WNT: Wnt family member; WT, wild type.
In the published article [...].
Hepatocellular carcinoma (LIHC) is the most common primary liver cancer, with high recurrence and metastasis rates, and its molecular mechanisms remain incompletely understood.The cancer genome atlas (TCGA) database was used to obtain LIHC-related information. TNMplot, gene expression profiling interactive analysis (GEPIA), and kaplan-meier plotter were used for differential gene expression analysis, visualization, and assessing the relationship between genes and patient survival. Reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and western blot (WB) were used to detect gene and protein expression levels. Cell transfection was used for gene knockdown and overexpression. Transwell and wound healing assays were used to evaluate cell migration and invasion. The jaspar database was used to predict transcription factor-gene interactions. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and dual-luciferase assays were used to validate transcription factor-gene binding.Never in mitosis gene a related kinase 2 (NEK2) was highly expressed in LIHC, and its high expression potentially had a negative impact on patient survival. NEK2 knockdown reduced the migration and invasion abilities of LIHC cells, decreased the expression of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) markers neural cadherin (N-cadherin) and vimentin, and increased epithelial cadherin (E-cadherin) expression, whereas NEK2 overexpression showed the opposite effects. E2F transcription factor 1 (E2F1) was also highly expressed in LIHC and positively regulated NEK2, exhibiting similar regulatory effects on LIHC cells. Moreover, NEK2 was positively correlated with Wnt/β-catenin marker catenin beta 1 (CTNNB1), as well as Notch signaling markers notch receptor 1 (NOTCH1), jagged canonical notch ligand 1 (JAG1), HES family BHLH transcription factor 1 (HES1), and HES-related family BHLH transcription factor with YRPW motif 1 (HEY1).The E2F1/NEK2 axis promotes the activation of Wnt/β-catenin and Notch signaling pathways and induces EMT to drive malignant behavior of LIHC cells.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
To investigate the association between Catenin Beta 1 (CTNNB1) gene polymorphisms and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), as well as the interacting molecules of CTNNB1. Bioinformatic analysis of publicly available transcriptomic datasets derived from T2DM samples identified a panel of differentially expressed genes (DEGs), among which CTNNB1 exhibited significant differential expression. Subsequent functional enrichment analysis and molecular docking revealed a co-expression network between CTNNB1 and Delta-like 1 homologue (DLK1). A total of 988 subjects including 455 patients with T2DM and 533 healthy controls were included, and the epidemiological and clinical data were collected. Association between SNPs (rs2953, rs4135387, rs1798802) of CTNNB1 and susceptibility to T2DM was analyzed. CTNNB1 expression was quantified in human serum by ELISA. A mouse model of diabetes was induced by a high-fat diet (HFD). The weight, blood glucose levels, and pancreatic morphology were detected. In a diabetes mouse model, CTNNB1 and DLK1 levels were further assessed using ELISA, Western blot, qRT-PCR, and immunohistochemistry. Immunofluorescence staining was also performed on pancreatic tissue sections to evaluate the spatial relationship within islets between β-catenin and DLK1. Integrated analysis of DEGs and pathway enrichment identified CTNNB1 as a key gene in T2DM. Functional enrichment and molecular docking suggested that CTNNB1 and DLK1 may interact through hydrogen bonding. The CTNNB1 gene rs1798802 locus was associated with T2DM. The proportion of T2DM patients was lower in the GG genotype group than in controls (47.7% vs. 52.3%). The GG genotype of the CTNNB1 gene at the rs1798802 tended to protect the individuals from T2DM (OR = 0.640, 95% CI: 0.446-0.918, p = 0.015). Serum levels of CTNNB1 were significantly reduced in patients with T2DM (74.5 pg/mL vs. 23.78 pg/mL). Compared with control mice, HFD-induced T2DM mice showed significantly decreased protein content and gene expression of β-catenin in the pancreatic tissue, while a concurrent decrease was also observed in DLK1 expression. Immunofluorescence staining revealed a significant overlap in the subcellular distribution of CTNNB1 and DLK1, which supported their potential physical interaction within pancreatic islet cells. The CTNNB1 gene exhibits differential expression in T2DM, and its genetic polymorphisms are also associated with the disease. The CTNNB1 gene rs1798802 loci GG genotype may be a protective factor against T2DM. CTNNB1 may interact with DLK1, potentially contributing to the regulation of pancreatic islet function. The Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway is inhibited in pancreatic islets in T2DM. β-catenin (CTNNB1) is a potential target for the treatment of T2DM.© 2026 The Author(s). The FASEB Journal published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
In vitro experiments have contributed to numerous fields of knowledge, including fish skeletal muscle. Despite improved strategies, in vitro assays still show discrepancies with in vivo systems, especially for non-model organisms. In this sense, we characterized the transcriptional profile of pacu (Piaractus mesopotamicus) muscle cells in vitro and in vivo. Processes related to proliferation, glycolytic metabolism, and extracellular matrix were enriched in vitro, while energy production, muscle contraction, and amino acid processing were enriched in vivo. Through qPCR, the genes fn1a (fibronectin 1a), hk1 (hexokinase 1), and ctnnb1 (catenin beta 1), respectively related to extracellular matrix, glycolytic metabolism, and cell proliferation and differentiation, were highly expressed in vitro. The genes ckma (creatine kinase, muscle a), acat1 (acetyl-CoA acetyltransferase 1), mdh2 (malate dehydrogenase 2), and pkmb (pyruvate kinase M1/2b), respectively associated with ATP production, fatty acid oxidation, oxidative and glycolytic metabolism, and the genes musk (muscle, skeletal, receptor tyrosine kinase), chrna1 (cholinergic receptor, nicotinic, alpha 1) and clu (clusterin), involved in cell signaling, were highly expressed in vivo. Overall, our results indicate that the main limitation of in vitro muscle cell model is the maintenance of an embryonic-like molecular state, whereas in vivo muscle displays a mature transcriptional profile, providing a molecular basis to guide future strategies for improving fish muscle cell culture systems and supporting advances in sustainable aquaculture and in vitro meat production.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Non-traumatic osteonecrosis of the femoral head (ONFH) is a multifactorial disorder in which genetic susceptibility is thought to play an important role, yet the contribution of many candidate genes remains unclear. The catenin beta-1 (CTNNB1) gene encodes β-catenin, a key regulator of the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway involved in bone homeostasis and vascular regulation, and may therefore influence susceptibility to non-traumatic ONFH. In this case-control study, genotype data from China Medical University Hospital were analyzed to evaluate the association between CTNNB1 polymorphisms and the risk of ONFH. A total of 609 patients with ONFH and 2436 age- and sex-matched controls were included. Fourteen CTNNB1 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) with a minor allele frequency greater than 5% were selected and analyzed using logistic regression under multiple genetic models, with Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium assessed in controls. Two SNPs, rs3774370 and rs11564478, showed significant differences in allele frequencies between cases and controls, with lower minor allele frequencies observed in the ONFH group. Both variants were associated with a reduced risk of ONFH, and these associations remained significant under dominant genetic models. These findings suggest that specific CTNNB1 polymorphisms may confer a protective effect against non-traumatic ONFH and provide further insight into the genetic architecture of this disease.
Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a neurodevelopmental disorder marked by heterogeneous symptoms and comorbidities, complicating diagnosis and obscuring its neurobiological basis.To investigate molecular mechanisms underlying ADHD, particularly the inattentive subtype, by examining Ctnnβ1 (catenin beta 1) and Itgβ1 (integrin beta 1), key components of the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway implicated in neurodevelopmental disorders.Spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR/NCrl), a validated ADHD model, were assessed for attentional performance through behavioral testing. Hippocampal and peripheral blood expression of Ctnnβ1 and Itgβ1 were quantified. A subset received atomoxetine to evaluate pharmacological effects on behavioral and molecular outcomes.SHR/NCrl rats displayed attentional impairments compared with controls. These deficits were accompanied by elevated hippocampal and peripheral expression of Ctnnβ1 and Itgβ1. Atomoxetine treatment normalized gene expression and improved attentional performance, demonstrating amelioration at both molecular and behavioral levels.Dysregulation of Wnt/β-catenin/integrin signaling may contribute to the ADHD pathophysiology. Concordant upregulation of Ctnnβ1 and Itgβ1 in brain and peripheral blood may support their potential as peripheral biomarkers of ADHD. Responsiveness of these genetic markers to atomoxetine treatment indicates potential value for treatment monitoring and supports targeting this pathway in future therapeutic strategies.© 2025. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to The Genetics Society of Korea.
Liquid-liquid phase separation, a process facilitating biomolecular condensate formation, plays a critical role in various pathologies, including tumorigenesis, metabolic disorders, and neurodegenerative diseases. Dysregulated phase separation has been linked to tumor initiation and progression. However, the pathological significance of phase separation in primary tumors of mice remains largely unexplored. We constructed a series of primary liver cancer models via hydrodynamic tail vein injection and confirmed that endogenous Yes-associated protein (YAP) formed numerous condensates in primary liver cancer of mice. Deletion, mutagenesis, and replacement assays confirmed that the formation of YAP condensates plays a critical role in the development of cellular myelocytomatosis oncogene (c-Myc)-induced hepatocellular carcinoma, myristoylated AKT (myr-AKT)-induced intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma, and amino-terminal missing first 90 amino acids of catenin beta 1 (ΔN90-CTNNB1)-induced hepatoblastoma. We found that the YAP phase separation inhibits the activation of the adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) signaling pathway, thereby promoting the occurrence and development of primary liver cancer. Additionally, we identified that the TEA domain transcription factor 1 (TEAD1)-derived peptide effectively disrupted YAP condensate formation, leading to AMPKα activation in vivo and inhibition of primary liver cancer progression. This study systematically confirms that YAP phase separation plays a crucial role in the progression of various primary liver cancers and further substantiates that strategic disruption of these condensates constitutes an effective treatment for primary liver cancer in vivo.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42567942
This study investigates the potential mechanisms through which the Rhubarb-Peach Kernel herb pair may exert effects in gastric cancer (GC) using network pharmacology and molecular docking approaches. Active compounds and their corresponding targets were retrieved from the Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology Database and Analysis Platform (TCMSP), with additional compound-target information obtained from DrugBank. Gastric cancer-related targets were collected from GeneCards, Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man (OMIM), the Therapeutic Target Database, and DrugBank. The overlapping targets were used to construct a compound-target-disease network and a protein-protein interaction network. Gene ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway enrichment analyses were subsequently performed. Nine candidate compounds were docked against 8 core targets to assess their predicted structural interactions. A total of 27 active compounds were identified, among which β-sitosterol, aloe-emodin, and hederagenin were identified as major candidate compounds. Tumor protein p53, caspase 3, and JUN were among the principal network targets. Enrichment analysis indicated that the overlapping targets were mainly associated with the p53 signaling pathway and other pathways involved in cancer-related processes, including apoptosis, cell survival, and inflammatory regulation. Molecular docking revealed differences in predicted binding scores among the 9 candidate compounds and 8 core targets, with several compound-target pairs showing comparatively lower docking energies. This in silico study suggests that the Rhubarb-Peach Kernel herb pair may act through multiple compounds, targets, and biological pathways relevant to GC. However, the identified targets are not necessarily specific to GC, and the molecular docking findings represent computational predictions rather than evidence of actual biological binding. These results should therefore be considered preliminary and hypothesis-generating, and further in vitro and in vivo studies are required to evaluate their biological and therapeutic relevance.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Maternal obesity and viral infection induce placental inflammation, but how their co-exposure influence fetoplacental development remains unclear. We hypothesised that maternal high fat (HF) diet and viral infection would independently induce placental inflammation and lipid peroxidation, reduce antioxidant defence, and cellular turnover. Further, HF diet would compromise placental capacity to adapt to infection.Female C57BL/6J mice were fed a control (CON) or 62% HF diet six weeks before and throughout pregnancy and injected with poly(I:C) (viral mimic) or vehicle (VEH) 24 h before sacrifice at gestational days (GD) 12.5, 15.5, and 18.5 (n = 5-8/group/GD). Placental inflammasome (NLRP3), oxidative stress (4-HNE), antioxidant defence (GPx-4), and cellular proliferation-to-death ratio (Ki-67, Caspase-3) were assessed by immunohistochemistry, and mRNA expression of Tlr3, Irf3, Tlr4, Tirap, and Il-1β were measured by qPCR. Data were analysed by linear mixed models (p ≤ 0.05).At GD12.5, infection was associated with increased Tlr3 mRNA and immunoreactive (ir)-4-HNE, and reduced ir-GPx-4 expression in the placental labyrinth zone (LZ). By GD15.5, HF diet was associated with increased ir-NLRP3 in both LZ and junctional zones (JZ). Exposure to infection alone and co-exposure to HF diet and infection further increased LZ ir-NLRP3. At GD18.5, HF diet was associated with increased Tirap and Il-1β mRNA expression, ir-4-HNE in the JZ and ir-Caspase-3 in the LZ.Maternal HF diet and infection exert distinct effects on the placenta across gestation, suggesting that maternal overnutrition might reduce the placenta's capacity to handle adverse exposures, which may increase susceptibility to poor fetal outcomes.© 2026 The Author(s). American Journal of Reproductive Immunology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Osteosarcoma (OS) is a malignant bone tumor that predominantly affects adolescents. Due to its early metastatic tendency and chemoresistance, long-term survival rates in patients have not shown significant improvement over time, highlighting the urgent need for novel molecular targets and therapeutic strategies. Ferroptosis, a form of programmed cell death driven by iron-dependent lipid peroxidation, offers a promising avenue for overcoming drug-resistant tumors. ATP-binding cassette subfamily B member 6 (ABCB6) belongs to the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter superfamily and is mainly localised to the outer mitochondrial membrane, where it participates in haem synthesis and intracellular iron transport. Recent studies have indicated that ABCB6 is aberrantly expressed in various malignancies and regulates tumor progression, yet its role and mechanism in OS remain unexplored. The present study aims to systematically characterise the expression pattern, clinical prognostic significance, and biological functions of ABCB6 in OS, and to dissect the molecular mechanism by which ABCB6 governs ferroptosis in OS cells, thereby providing a theoretical foundation for ABCB6-targeted therapy.Human OS cell lines (HOS and 143B) and human bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) were used as research subjects. Stable ABCB6-knockdown OS cell lines were established via lentivirus-mediated RNA interference, and rescue experiments were performed using lentiviral overexpression of hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha (HIF1A). Cell proliferation was assessed by cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) and colony formation assays; migration was evaluated by Transwell and scratch wound-healing assays; apoptosis was detected by flow cytometry. Ferroptosis-related phenotypic assays were employed to determine the impact of ABCB6 expression on ferroptosis. Transcriptome sequencing was conducted to analyse differentially expressed genes and enriched pathways; chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and dual-luciferase reporter assays were applied to verify the direct binding of HIF1A to the promoter of glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) and its transcriptional regulation. Iron chelator and proteasome inhibitor interventions were used to validate the regulation of HIF1A protein stability by Fe2+. In vivo, ABCB6-knockdown and control 143B cells were injected subcutaneously into nude mice to establish a xenograft tumor model, and tumor growth was monitored.Both messenger RNA (mRNA) and protein levels of ABCB6 were significantly higher in OS cell lines than in BMSCs (both P<0.05), and analysis of the Therapeutically Applicable Research to Generate Effective Treatments (TARGET)-OS cohort revealed that patients with high ABCB6 expression had markedly worse overall survival than those with low expression [hazard ratio (HR)=2.94, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.36 to 6.36, P<0.05]. ABCB6 knockdown significantly suppressed OS cell proliferation and colony formation, reduced migratory capacity, and increased the apoptosis rate, accompanied by downregulation of N-cadherin and upregulation of E-cadherin and cleaved caspase-3 (all P<0.05). ABCB6 silencing markedly elevated the proportion of Liperfluo-positive cells and dihydroethidium (DHE) oxidation levels, increased intracellular Fe2+ concentration, decreased the glutathione (GSH)/oxidized glutathione (GSSG) ratio, reduced mitochondrial membrane potential, and induced typical ferroptotic mitochondrial morphological changes (shrinkage and cristae reduction) as observed by transmission electron microscope (all P<0.05); these oxidative alterations were reversed by the ferroptosis inhibitors. ABCB6 knockdown downregulated GPX4 at both protein and mRNA levels, whereas solute carrier family 7 member 11 (SLC7A11) expression remained unchanged (P>0.05). Transcriptome sequencing and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analysis showed significant enrichment of the HIF-1 signalling pathway in the control group (P<0.001); ABCB6 knockdown decreased HIF1A protein expression, and treatment with an iron chelator or a proteasome inhibitor reversed this degradation through Fe2+ chelation or inhibition of the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway, respectively (all P<0.05). Chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (ChIP-qPCR) and dual-luciferase reporter assays confirmed that HIF1A directly binds to the GPX4 promoter and activates its transcription. Overexpression of HIF1A in ABCB6-knockdown cells restored GPX4 expression and significantly rescued the proliferation inhibition, migration impairment, and apoptosis increase caused by ABCB6 silencing, while also restoring mitochondrial membrane potential (all P<0.05). In the xenograft model, tumors from the ABCB6-knockdown group exhibited significantly reduced volume and weight compared with the control group (all P<0.05); immunohistochemistry confirmed downregulation of HIF1A and GPX4, reduced Ki-67 and N-cadherin positivity, and increased cleaved caspase-3 and E-cadherin positivity in the knockdown group (all P<0.05).This study systematically uncovers, for the first time, the oncogenic role and prognostic value of ABCB6 in OS, and delineates the complete "ABCB6/Fe2+/HIF1A/GPX4" axis that governs ferroptosis in OS cells. These findings not only provide a novel biomarker for molecular subtyping and prognostic evaluation of OS, but also establish a theoretical basis for therapeutic strategies that target the ABCB6/HIF1A/GPX4 axis to induce ferroptosis. Future investigations may explore the upstream regulators of ABCB6 and its potential utility in reversing chemoresistance in OS.
Black goji berry (Lycium ruthenicum Murr.) has been recognized for its immune-regulating and anti-cancer potentials, but its key active components and underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we applied LC-MS/MS to characterize the metabolite profile of L. ruthenicum and performed in vitro assays to evaluate its anti-inflammatory and anti-cancer activities. A total of 149 metabolites were identified, with organic acids, carbohydrates, and amino acid derivatives as the dominant components. Isorhamnetin was identified as a representative flavonoid. In LPS-stimulated Calu3 cells, isorhamnetin reduced the secretion and mRNA expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-6, TNF-alpha, IL-1beta). In cancer cells, isorhamnetin induces ROS accumulation, DNA damage, mitochondrial dysfunction, and caspase-3-dependent apoptosis, with modulation of the AKT signaling pathway. These findings suggest that isorhamnetin may contribute to the anti-inflammatory and anti-cancer effects of L. ruthenicum observed in vitro, providing preliminary experimental evidence for its potential as a functional food ingredient. However, this study is limited by the use of a single cell line (Calu3) and the absence of in vivo validation and pharmacokinetic evaluation; further studies are needed to confirm these observations.Copyright © 2026 Jiang, Ma, Li, Li, Zhang and Li.
Inflammasomes are high-molecular-weight complexes that play integral roles in the innate immune system, triggering an inflammatory cascade to protect against cellular stresses such as pathogenic bacteria. Both canonical and non-canonical inflammasomes have been described in the literature and detailed structural studies of many components of the more complex and larger canonical versions have been reported. In contrast, corresponding structures of the non-canonical inflammasome have not emerged even though it consists of only two components: lipopolysaccharide (LPS) from Gram-negative bacteria and one of caspase-4 or caspase-5 in humans or caspase-11 in mice. Here, we determine the stoichiometry of the non-canonical inflammasome showing that it is heterogeneous, comprised of three major complexes with different numbers of LPS and caspase molecules. NMR spectroscopy studies of the N-terminal caspase activation and recruitment domain (CARD) of caspase-11, which binds LPS, establish that it is largely unstructured in the absence of lipid, with pervasive dynamics on the µs-ms timescale. Formation of this complex increases the α-helical content of the CARD, but the dynamics persist, multiple conformers are formed, and tertiary contacts are transient. The NMR results presented establish that the protease domain of caspase-11 is monomeric in isolation. As proteolysis is linked with dimerization, the protease domains are inactive in this state, but upon formation of the non-canonical inflammasome, dimerization occurs, priming the complex for rapid processing of substrates. Our study highlights the utility of NMR for studies of heterogeneous systems that are recalcitrant to crystallographic or cryo-EM analyses.
Evidence has shown that constant light or constant darkness significantly impairs cognitive functions and affects the mood state. The present study investigated the effect of circadian rhythm disturbances (circadian rhythm disruptions, CRDs) on locomotor activity, rearing behavior, pain threshold, novel object recognition memory, and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta (GSK-3β) expression levels in the hippocampus of both sexes of rats. CRD was done using a combination of constant light (48 h) and constant darkness (48 h) periods for 8 (short-term), 16 (midterm), or 24 (long-term) days. The results showed CRD in all protocols increased locomotor activity in males, whereas in females, only long-term CRD increased it. Long-term CRD increased rearing only in females, whereas in males, only midterm CRD decreased rearing. Short- and midterm CRD in males decreased pain threshold, whereas in females, only midterm CRD decreased pain threshold. Novel object recognition memory was impaired in both sexes following all protocols of CRD. All protocols of CRD in females downregulated BDNF, whereas in males, short-term CRD had no effect. GSK-3β was increased following long-term CRD in both sexes. Spearman correlation test showed that BDNF function may be associated with changes in some behavioral functions in both sexes; however, GSK-3β function may be associated with some behavioral changes only in females. In conclusion, we showed sex differences in the effect of CRD on locomotor activity, rearing behavior, and pain threshold. Also, GSK-3β may show a sex-dependent role in the modulation of behavioral changes induced by CRD.Copyright © 2026 Zeinab Dalil-Housh et al. Behavioural Neurology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Background/Objectives: Colorectal cancer (CRC) remains one of the leading causes of cancer-related morbidity and mortality worldwide. Despite advances in treatment, outcomes for advanced CRC remain unsatisfactory due to uncontrolled proliferation, metastasis, and recurrence. This study investigated the anti-cancer effects of KMU-11342, an indolin-2-one-based multi-protein kinase inhibitor with previously reported anti-inflammatory properties, in human colorectal cancer models. Methods: The anti-cancer effects of KMU-11342 were evaluated in colorectal cancer cells and further investigated in three-dimensional (3D) spheroid and patient-derived organoid models. Cell proliferation, migration, apoptosis, and cell cycle progression were assessed. Kinase activity profiling and molecular docking analyses were performed to identify potential targets and characterize the underlying signaling pathways. Results: KMU-11342 significantly inhibited the proliferation and migration of CRC cells. It reduced CRC cell density by 58.9% and 83.3% at 0.5 and 1 μM, respectively. These effects were accompanied by G2/M cell cycle arrest and apoptotic cell death. In 3D models, spheroid formation was markedly reduced and stemness-related characteristics were diminished. Patient-derived CRC organoids also showed decreased viability, exhibiting 38.6% and 77.4% reductions at 1 and 2 μM, respectively. These effects were observed in a dose-dependent manner in both two-dimensional (2D) and 3D colorectal cancer models. Kinase activity profiling and molecular docking analyses identified glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta (GSK3β) and cyclin-dependent kinase 1 (CDK1) as potential mediators of the anti-cancer effects of KMU-11342 through the p53/nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) and FoxO1 signaling axes, respectively. Conclusions: KMU-11342 exhibits potent anti-tumor activity against CRC through suppressing proliferation, migration, and stemness in both 2D and 3D models, including patient-derived organoids. Its effects may be mediated, at least in part, through modulation of GSK3β and CDK1 via the p53/NF-κB and FoxO1 signaling pathways.
Background: Obesity is associated with aggressive prostate cancer, but the links between metabolic dysregulation, inflammation, adipocyte-associated signaling, and tumor growth remain incompletely defined. This study examined whether high-fat diet (HFD)-associated systemic changes and adipocyte-derived paracrine interactions are linked to prostate cancer growth in preclinical models. Methods: An HFD xenograft model and adipocyte co-culture systems were used to evaluate systemic and local tumor-supportive features. Pharmacologic/nutritional modulation was tested using green tea or EGCG, arctigenin, and the CCR2 antagonist RS 504393, alone or in combination. Tumor growth, cell proliferation, angiogenesis-related features, circulating metabolic and cytokine levels, and selected tumor-associated signaling proteins were analyzed. Results: HFD feeding was associated with increased circulating free fatty acids, IGF-1, MCP-1, IL-6, and VEGF, together with increased tumor growth, Ki67 staining, and CD31-positive microvessel density. Adipocyte co-culture systems were used to evaluate treatment-associated changes in prostate cancer cell proliferation under adipocyte-associated conditions. Combined modulation with green tea/EGCG, arctigenin, and RS 504393 was associated with greater reductions in adipocyte-associated proliferation, tumor growth, Ki67 staining, and CD31-positive microvessel density than single or dual interventions. Antibody array analysis showed treatment-associated changes in selected stress- and apoptosis-related proteins, including cleaved caspase-7 and phosphorylated Chk1. Conclusions: HFD-associated metabolic and inflammatory alterations, adipocyte-associated interactions, proliferative activity, angiogenesis-related features, and stress/apoptosis-related signaling changes were linked within a tumor-supportive framework in preclinical prostate cancer models. Combined pharmacologic/nutritional modulation was associated with reduced tumor-supportive features under HFD conditions. Further mechanistic and translational validation is needed.
Metabolic diseases, which include obesity, type 2 diabetes, atherosclerosis, and metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD), are significant global health challenges. Patients with these conditions frequently exhibit gut dysbiosis and compromised gut barrier integrity, which lead to excessive translocation of Gram-negative bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS or endotoxin) from the gut lumen into the systemic circulation. This results in chronically elevated systemic LPS levels, a condition termed "metabolic endotoxemia". Gut-derived LPS may stimulate inflammatory responses and oxidative stress when it translocates and is recognized by host Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) and caspase-4/-5/-11. Metabolic endotoxemia is a primary trigger for the low-grade inflammation that promotes the development of metabolic diseases. Emerging evidence also indicates that metabolic endotoxemia acts as a key driver in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease, by promoting chronic neuroinflammation. In this review, we discuss: (1) the molecular structure of LPS that determines its bioactivity and its recognition by host cells, (2) host regulation of its bioactivity, (3) its translocation from the gut lumen into the systemic circulation, and (4) how metabolic endotoxemia contributes to obesity, type 2 diabetes, atherosclerosis, MASLD, and Alzheimer's disease. We conclude by exploring potential interventions aimed at preventing or mitigating metabolic endotoxemia by promoting LPS degradation and inactivation.
Subsequently to the publication of the above article, an interested reader drew to the authors' attention that, concerning the three breast cancer cell lines investigated in their study, it was surprising that they should have detected caspase‑3 expression in the MCF‑7 cell line, as reported for example in Fig. 6, since it has been shown that MCF‑7 cells do not express caspase‑3 (see the paper by Reiner U. Jänicke and colleagues entitled 'MCF‑7 breast carcinoma cells do not express caspase‑3'. Breast Cancer Res Treat vol. 117.1 (2009); p. 219‑221). In their response, the authors acknowledge that the prevailing consensus in the literature, established by the seminal work of Jänicke et al in an article they published in 1998 in Journal of Biological Chemistry holds that MCF‑7 cells harbor a 47‑bp deletion in exon 3 of the CASP3 gene, resulting in a frameshift mutation and a premature stop codon, with consequent absence of detectable functional protein. The authors' own article acknowledged this controversy by citing conflicting reports (references 13 and 39 compared with references 41‑43); however, they also recognize in retrospect that this should have prompted a more circumspect interpretation of their own data. Following a critical re‑evaluation of their methodology, the authors wish to draw attention to the following limitations of the present work: (1) The band detected in MCF‑7 cells using antibody H‑277 cannot be unambiguously attributed to caspase‑3, and cross‑reactivity with co‑expressed proteins of similar molecular weight, most notably caspase‑7, cannot be excluded. (2) The DDRT‑PCR amplicon obtained from MCF‑7 cells with the reported primers may correspond to the aberrant CASP3 transcript arising from the exon 3 deletion, and does not necessarily represent a translation‑competent mRNA. Sequencing of this amplicon was not performed, and would be required to resolve this question. (3) The conclusions of the article on caspase‑3 expression in MCF‑7 cells should therefore be read with these methodological caveats in mind. Importantly, these limitations do not affect the principal findings of the study concerning MDA‑MB‑231 and MCF‑10F cell lines, for which the experimental evidence remains methodologically sound.  The authors are grateful to the Editorial Board of International Journal of Oncology for the rigor of the review process, and also for the opportunity to address these concerns transparently. They also thank the reader of the article for drawing these concerns to their attention. [International Journal of Oncology 49: 753‑762, 2016; DOI: 10.3892/ijo.2016.3558].
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide. Identification of potential therapeutic strategies and molecular targets requires evaluation in robust preclinical models. Several homeopathic preparations have been reported to influence proliferation, apoptosis, and oxidative signaling in cancer cell models. Arsenicum iodatum (Ars. iod), a homeopathic preparation traditionally associated with degenerative and cachectic conditions and clinically used in some HCC patients at the Government Homoeopathic Cancer Centre, Kerala, has not previously been evaluated at the cellular level. The aim of this study was therefore to perform a preliminary investigation of the effects of Ars. iod on the human HCC cell line HepG2 in vitro.HepG2 cells were treated with Ars. iod at three potencies (6C, 12C, and 30C) and compared with untreated control cells. An ethanol-matched vehicle control was used in initial cytotoxicity studies. Cellular responses were assessed using the MTT cell-viability assay, acridine orange/ethidium bromide (AO/EtBr) staining for apoptotic morphology, propidium iodide staining with flow cytometry for cell cycle analysis and indirect ELISA for caspase-3 and caspase-7 protein expression. Experiments were performed in biological triplicate and statistically analyzed.Treatment with Ars. iod was associated with reduced HepG2 cell viability after 24 hours. The calculated IC50 values for the 6C, 12C, and 30C potencies were 59.36, 38.47, and 31.86 μL/mL, respectively, compared with 55.19 μL/mL for the vehicle control. Cell cycle analysis demonstrated redistribution of cells across different phases following treatment, with 6C associated with accumulation in the G2/M phase, 12C with increased S-phase population, and 30C with redistribution across both G0/G1 and G2/M phases. AO/EtBr staining, together with elevated caspase-3 and caspase-7 protein expression levels, confirmed that Ars. iod was capable of inducing apoptosis in HepG2 cells.Under controlled in vitro conditions, homeopathic Ars. iod potencies were associated with potency-dependent cytotoxic, cell cycle perturbation, and apoptotic effects in HepG2 cells. These findings provide preliminary evidence supporting further investigation of the biological effects and underlying mechanisms of Ars. iod in HCC models.Faculty of Homeopathy. This article is published by Thieme.
Granulosa cells (GCs) are integral to the process of follicular development in poultry, with their differentiation and hormone synthesis being critical for follicle selection. While glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta (GSK3β) is recognized as a significant regulator of energy metabolism, differentiation, and autophagy, its specific function within GCs remains unclear. Elucidating the role of GSK3β in GCs is essential for deciphering the mechanisms governing follicle selection. Our in vitro studies in GCs from prehierarchical follicles demonstrated that overexpression of GSK3β inhibited both differentiation and proliferation, while simultaneously promoting steroid hormone synthesis. Conversely, GSK3β knockdown yielded the opposite effects. Transcriptomic analyses, supplemented by further validation, revealed that overexpression of GSK3β initiated autophagy and lipid metabolism but impeded autophagic flux, as evidenced by increased LC3-II levels and elevated p62 accumulation. Furthermore, GSK3β overexpression resulted in enhanced intracellular lipid droplet accumulation. These effects, along with the observed rise in progesterone levels and reduction in FSHR levels, were attenuated by co-treatment with rapamycin (Rapa). Mechanistically, our findings suggest that the impairment of autophagic flux induced by GSK3β triggers lipid accumulation, leading to elevated mitochondrial damage and lipid peroxidation, which in turn negatively affects GC differentiation. In conclusion, GSK3β disrupts follicular GC function by initiating autophagy while blocking its flux. This disruption induces excessive lipid accumulation, ultimately inhibiting GC differentiation. This study provides novel insights into the role of GSK3β in poultry follicular development and offers a new theoretical framework for understanding the mechanisms of follicle selection.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Caspase-3 (CASP3) and caspase-7 (CASP7) are the two major executioner caspases that are proteolytically activated by upstream initiator caspases. They possess almost indistinguishable activity, which has led to the overall view that these caspases have functionally redundant roles. Here, we generate knock-in mice expressing cleavage-resistant CASP3(D175A) or CASP7(D198A). Our results show that proteolytic activation of CASP3 and CASP7 is decisive for their activity in vivo and controls redundant processes during embryonic development as combined expression of both CASP3(D175A) and CASP7(D198A) causes embryonic lethality. In adult mice, however, activation of CASP3 and CASP7 controls different processes in different tissues, without the involvement of apoptosis. While CASP7 activation is required for male fertility by controlling spermatogenesis, CASP3 activation appears crucial for lymphoid tissue development by regulating interferon signalling. Our findings shed light on emerging roles of caspases in non-apoptotic processes and provide impetus for reconsidering their involvement in physiological and pathological conditions.© 2026. The Author(s).
The development of dual-directed anticancer agents has emerged as an effective strategy to simultaneously modulate tumor proliferation and angiogenesis while overcoming resistance associated with single-target therapies. In the present study, a novel series of benzofuran-based aryl urea derivatives incorporating a 1,3,4-thiadiazole linker were designed as dual VEGFR-2/BRAFWT inhibitors using sorafenib as a pharmacophoric template. The in vitro cytotoxic activity of the synthesized compounds against cervix HeLa, prostate PC-3, colon HCT-116, and breast MCF-7 cancer cell lines was evaluated. Most derivatives showed variable activity, with 5-bromobenzofuran analogues displaying superior potency. Compound 7j emerged as the most active analogue, with IC50 values of 7.83-13.27 μM and reduced toxicity toward normal lung fibroblast WI-38 cells. Enzymatic assays revealed potent dual inhibition of VEGFR-2 and BRAFWT by 7j (IC50 = 0.044 and 0.071 μM, respectively), outperforming sorafenib and vemurafenib. Mechanistic studies showed that 7j induced G2/M cell cycle arrest and promoted apoptosis in HeLa cells. This effect was associated with upregulation of BAX, p53, and caspase-9, downregulation of Bcl-2, and activation of the intrinsic apoptotic pathway. Additionally, in silico studies including molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations demonstrated stable ligand-target interactions and favorable binding modes of 7j across both VEGFR-2 and BRAF, supporting the proposed hybrid design strategy. Overall, compound 7j represents a promising dual VEGFR-2/BRAFWT inhibitor and highlights benzofuran-based scaffolds as valuable platforms for anticancer drug development.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Daturaolone is an amyrin-type triterpenoid isolated from Datura metel L. which was evaluated in the current study as a multitarget inhibitor of enzymes implicated in neurodegeneration, namely acetylcholinesterase (AChE), butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE), and monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B). While no significant inhibition was detected towards BuChE, daturaolone inhibited AChE (IC50 = 45.06 ± 1.80 µM), even if with lower potency if compared to the positive control donepezil (IC50 = 0.047 ± 0.001 µM). Concerning MAO-B, daturaolone displayed an IC50 value of 28.04 ± 1.68 µM, higher of that of positive control safinamide (IC50 = 0.027 ± 0.001 µM). Molecular docking was used to study the binding to the catalytic sites of the macromolecular targets, while ligand-based studies predicted low-affinity interactions with protein phosphatases, androgen receptor, and β-secretase 1, along with limited drug-likeness.
Auramine O (AO) is a widely used synthetic dye that poses serious environmental and health risks, yet the mechanisms underlying its multiorgan toxicity remain poorly understood. This investigation aims to assess the systemic toxicity of AO in Sprague-Dawley rats. The animals were divided into a control group, AO-exposed groups (5 and 10 mg/kg), and a positive control group receiving bisphenol A (50 mg/kg) for 90 days of exposure via oral gavage. Toxicity was assessed through body weight, serum biochemical markers, histopathology, gene expression (RT-PCR), immunohistochemistry, and HPLC-based quantification of AO in both urine and plasma. AO showed a quick systemic distribution to physiological organs and was primarily eliminated via the renal pathway. In addition, this study revealed a dose-dependent decrease in body weight. Biomarkers, such as bilirubin, albumin, glucose, creatinine, blood urea nitrogen (BUN), and creatine kinase levels, showed a significant elevation. In the brain homogenate, acetylcholinesterase level was notably reduced. Histopathological analysis of tissue samples revealed considerable damage to the liver (hepatic injury), kidney (tubular degeneration), heart (myocardial injury), and brain (neuronal degeneration). Gene expression analysis showed significant upregulation of inflammatory (tnf-α and nfkb) and apoptotic (caspase-3 and caspase-9) markers, and immunohistochemistry resulted in upregulated expression of nfkb. These results emphasize the potential health hazards linked to prolonged AO exposure, necessitating stringent environmental regulatory measures and further research into its long-term safety and potential therapeutic interventions.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Methimazole (MZL) is a widely prescribed antithyroid medication that has additionally been associated with unintended toxic effects involving organs outside its primary therapeutic site. The current work was conducted to investigate the progressive cardiac pathological alterations elicited by escalating dose levels of MZL. A total of 36 healthy (adult male albino rats) of comparable age and body weight were selected for the study after veterinary examination confirmed their suitability for experimental use. Selected animals were randomly distributed among the four experimental groups with each group having nine rats. Group I was designated as control group. Group II, III and IV were gavaged with MZL at a dose level of 60, 100 and 250 mg/kg/day body weight, respectively, continuously for 28 days. MZL treatment significantly and dose-dependently altered the expressions of MST1, LATS1, YAP1 and TEAD1. The genes for calcium-handling proteins were highly affected with a reduction in SERCA2a and RyR2 and an increase in PLN and NCX1 throughout the dose-escalation regimen of MZL. MZL intoxication significantly augmented ROS and MDA levels whereas suppressed SOD, CAT, GPx, GST, GSR, HO-1 and GSH. Echocardiographic evaluation showed cardiac remodeling, ventricular dilation, myocardial hypertrophy, and poor cardiac performance. There were significantly high level of cardiac biomarkers such as CK-MB, troponin-I, CPK, LDH, BNP, troponin-T, and NT-proBNP, signifying myocardial injury and ventricular dysfunction. Besides, MZL significantly worsened cardiac inflammation by elevating the expression of TNF-α, NF-κB, IL-6, IL-1β, and COX-2 and cardiac apoptosis by increasing caspase-3, Bax, & caspase-9, but diminishing Bcl-2. Histopathological examination showed myocardial degeneration, necrosis, edema, and inflammatory infiltration and structural disorganization in direct proportion to the administered dose. These findings showed severe myocardial toxicity following MZL intoxication throughout the investigated dose range thereby demonstrating its cardiotoxic manifestations.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
In PCD of Paeonia lactiflora seeds during cryopreservation, the nitrate reductase pathway is the critical path of ROS-induced nitric oxide (NO) biosynthesis. The AsA-GSH antioxidant cycle, catalase and superoxide dismutase, are the action sites of NO-mediated ROS regulation. Programmed cell death (PCD) is one of the main reasons affecting the changes in cell viability after cryopreservation. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) and nitric oxide (NO) are key signaling molecules in PCD. However, the relationship between these two signaling molecules in the occurrence of PCD during plant cryopreservation remains unclear. Therefore, in this study, Paeonia lactiflora seeds with varying moisture contents were used as the material. This is based on the changes in seed viability, ROS, and NO before and after cryopreservation. The relationship between ROS and NO and their interaction mechanism during the occurrence of PCD in seed cryopreservation under the action of exogenous ROS and NO regulators are studies. The results showed that after cryopreservation, the viability with high-moisture-content seeds significantly decreased, and the contents of ROS and NO significantly increased. Conversely, the trend was the opposite for seeds with low moisture content. Correlation analysis indicated a significant correlation between seeds viability and the levels of hydroxyl radical (·OH), hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), and NO during cryopreservation. Exogenous application of ROS and NO scavengers at optimal concentrations resulted in a significant reduction in the activities of caspase-3-like and caspase-9-like proteases. This also decreased the number of apoptotic and necrotic cells. Exogenous supplementation of H2O2 and NO carrier at optimal concentrations elicited opposing trends in two key PCD-related indicators, with the exception of caspase-9-like protease activity. Exogenous application of ROS scavengers at optimal concentrations led to a significant reduction in NO content, whereas exogenous H2O2 supplementation exerted an opposite effect on NO levels. Exogenous application of ROS modulators resulted in a consistent variation trend between nitrate reductase (NR) activity and endogenous NO content. Exogenous application of NO scavenger resulted in a marked elevation in ·OH generation and H2O2 content, while supplementation with NO carrier significantly decreased in both of these ROS species. Concurrently, the activity profiles of antioxidant enzymes, including ascorbic acid (AsA), glutathione (GSH), catalase (CAT), superoxide dismutase (SOD), and ascorbate peroxidase (APX), exhibited concordant variation trends with those of ·OH and H2O2. These results indicate that ROS and NO have an interactive relationship in the PCD occurrence of P. lactiflora seeds during cryopreservation.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Colon cancer is one of the most prevalent cancers globally, characterized by the abnormal growth of cells in the intestines. Numerous studies have explored the effects of pomegranate-derived products, such as pomegranate seed oil (PSO), as anti-proliferative, anti-invasive, and pro-apoptotic agents against various cancer cell lines. Additionally, previous research has highlighted the anti-cancer properties of low-frequency electromagnetic fields (LF-EMF). In the present study, we investigated the combined effects of these two factors on the expression of the Caspase 3, Caspase 9, BAX, and Bcl2 genes. Human colon cancer cells of the HT29 line were sourced from the Pasteur Institute of Iran cell bank and maintained in a complete culture medium. The cells were categorized into four groups: control, PSO, EMF, and PSO+EMF. To assess cell viability and the type of cell death, MTT and Annexin V-FITC assays were employed. Changes in the expression levels of Caspase 3, Caspase 9, BAX, and Bcl2 were analyzed using Real-Time PCR. The results from the MTT and Annexin V-FITC assays indicated that both PSO and EMF reduced cell viability and promoted apoptosis in colon cancer cells. The Real-Time PCR results showed an upregulation of Caspase 3, Caspase 9, and BAX genes, along with a downregulation of Bcl2 expression in the treatment groups compared to the control group. This study demonstrated that the combination of PSO and EMF enhances apoptotic gene expression, thereby diminishing the proliferation and viability of cancer cells. Based on these findings, both PSO and LF-EMF exhibit cytotoxic effects on colon cancer cells, suggesting their potential as candidates for future research in the field of colon cancer.
The isatin scaffold has emerged as a promising platform for the development of anticancer agents, as evidenced by several clinically relevant isatin-based compounds. In this study, 85 novel isatin derivatives were designed based on literature reports and evaluated using drug-likeness prediction, ADME profiling, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics simulations. The compounds were screened against VEGFR-2, EGFR, and caspase-6 to identify potential multi-target lead candidates. Based on their binding affinity and pharmacokinetic properties, 41 compounds were shortlisted for further evaluation. Among them, compound 4 exhibited the most favorable binding profile and stable interactions with the selected targets. These findings suggest that compound 4 represents a promising lead for further investigation. However, experimental studies, including enzyme inhibition, cell-based assays, and in vivo evaluation, are required to validate its therapeutic potential. Overall, this study highlights the usefulness of computational approaches in the discovery of novel isatin-based multi-target lead candidates for cancer therapy.
Melanoma remains one of the most aggressive forms of skin cancer, with limited therapeutic options and significant treatment-related toxicity. In this study, we evaluated the biological activity of a novel dibenzoylmethane derivative, IDPIP, focusing on its cytotoxic, anti-migratory, and pro-apoptotic effects in melanoma cells. IDPIP exhibited pronounced and selective cytotoxicity in murine and human melanoma cell lines, with significantly lower toxicity to non-tumor cells. Notably, IDPIP demonstrated greater potency and selectivity than a clinically used chemotherapeutic agent, with a selectivity index of 23.44, indicating a more favorable therapeutic window. Morphological and flow cytometric analyses revealed that IDPIP induces apoptosis in a dose-dependent manner (up to 90% mortality), involving activation of both intrinsic and extrinsic pathways, as evidenced by caspase-9 and caspase-8 activation assay, respectively. In addition to its cytotoxic effects, IDPIP impaired melanoma cell migration and invasion in vitro, as demonstrated by PMA-induced wound-healing and transwell assays. Treated cells exhibited morphological alterations consistent with reduced adhesion and cytoskeletal disruption. IDPIP treatment was also associated with the accumulation of autophagy-related vesicular structures in this process. Furthermore, using optical tweezers, we demonstrated that IDPIP is capable of interacting with the minor groove of double-stranded DNA. This interaction may contribute to cellular stress responses associated with apoptosis and impaired cell motility. In summary, IDPIP exhibits selective cytotoxicity, promotes apoptosis, and impairs melanoma cell migration in vitro, supporting its potential as a promising candidate for further investigation. Additional studies, including evaluation of DNA damage response pathways and in vivo models, will be necessary to fully elucidate its mechanism of action and therapeutic relevance.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Restraint stress is a well-established model for inducing psychological and physiological stress that triggers oxidative damage, inflammation, and apoptosis in cardiac tissue. Wedelolactone, a bioactive coumestan derived from Eclipta alba, possesses known antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties, but its cardioprotective effects under restraint stress have not been well elucidated. The present study aimed to evaluate the cardioprotective potential of Wedelolactone against restraint stress-induced myocardial injury through biochemical, molecular, and histopathological assessments. Male Wistar rats were divided into four groups: Control, Restraint Stress (RS), RS + wedelolactone (10 mg/kg, orally), and wedelolactone-alone. Electrocardiographic parameters, serum cardiac biomarkers (creatine kinase MB (CK-MB), lactate dehydrogenase, aspartate aminotransferase, cardiac troponin I), oxidative stress markers (malondialdehyde, superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, reduced glutathione), inflammatory mediators (tumor necrosis factor-α, interleukin-6, C-reactive protein, nuclear factor-κB), and apoptotic gene expression (Bax, Bcl-2, caspase-3 and caspase-9) were analyzed. Nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2)/heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) pathway activation was evaluated by western blot, and myocardial histology was assessed using hematoxylin and eosin staining. Restraint stress caused significant increases in oxidative stress, inflammation, and apoptotic gene expression, along with histological evidence of myocyte necrosis and vascular congestion. Wedelolactone treatment markedly normalized cardiac biomarkers, restored antioxidant enzyme levels, reduced inflammatory cytokines, and downregulated pro-apoptotic genes while enhancing Nrf2/HO-1 signaling and anti-apoptotic gene expression. We found that Wedelolactone exhibits potent cardioprotective, antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and anti-apoptotic properties against restraint stress-induced myocardial damage, primarily through activation of the Nrf2/HO-1 pathway and suppression of nuclear factor-κB signaling.Copyright© 2025 Polish Physiological Society.
Entamoeba dispar is a non-pathogenic sibling species of Entamoeba histolytica, yet the mechanisms that enable E. dispar to persist in the intestine without causing disease remain poorly understood. Experimental models for dissecting intestinal immune responses to E. dispar have been limited. In Japan and other East Asian countries, E. histolytica infection is relatively common among men who have sex with men, whereas E. dispar infection has rarely been identified.We report the first domestically acquired and culture-established E. dispar infection in Japan. A clinical strain, NA442, was isolated from fecal cysts of an HIV-positive patient without gastrointestinal symptoms and was maintained in stable monoxenic culture with Pseudomonas putida. Phylogenetic and tRNA-linked STR analyses confirmed the species identity and revealed genetic similarity to a Thailand-derived genotype. Using NA442, we established a murine cecal infection model to characterize host immune responses. Infection induced detectable secretion of lipocalin-2 in stool, indicating epithelial stress; however, CXCL-1 and myeloperoxidase levels in cecal tissue remained at baseline, and no neutrophil infiltration or tissue destruction was observed. NA442 colonized the murine cecum for up to three weeks but elicited only mild epithelial thickening without the hallmark inflammatory signatures associated with E. histolytica.This study provides the first in vivo evidence that E. dispar colonization triggers limited mucosal inflammation despite successful short-term persistence in the intestine. The identification of NA442 as the first domestic E. dispar case in Japan suggests the parasite may circulate unnoticed within the population. The NA442 strain establishes a valuable experimental tool for comparative studies of pathogenic versus non-pathogenic Entamoeba species and contributes to understanding the determinants of intestinal virulence and host immune modulation.Copyright: © 2026 Saito-Nakano et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Cardiovascular health depends critically on the integrity of the vascular extracellular matrix (ECM) and the behavior of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs), both of which can be adversely affected in vascular diseases. This study quantitatively evaluates the therapeutic potential of conditioned medium (CM) derived from bone marrow (BM-MSCs) and adipose-derived stem cells (ADSCs) in an elastase-injured human aortic smooth muscle cell (HASMC) model. We systematically varied seeding densities (2000, 5000, and 10,000 cells/cm2) and serum conditions to optimize the SC-SMC secretome for vascular repair. Our results indicate that neither BM-SMC nor AD-SMC CM significantly enhanced lysyl oxidase (LOX) activity. In fact, serum-supplemented BM-SMC CM significantly suppressed LOX activity at seeding densities of 2000 cells/cm2 (p = 0.0378) and 10,000 cells/cm2 (p = 0.0080) compared to injured untreated controls. High-density AD-SMC CM (10,000 cells/cm2) also resulted in a significant decrease in elastin levels (p < 0.05). In addition, serum presence was critical for maintaining the reparative phenotype. Serum-free (SF) conditions for both cell sources led to widespread, statistically significant reductions (p < 0.0001) in key repair and inflammatory biomarkers, including PDGF-AA, Leptin, Lipocalin-2, Osteopontin, RBP4, MMP-1, and IL-6. IL-11 emerged as a primary discriminatory biomarker, showing significant differences between BM and AD treatments at high seeding densities, with both sources causing a significant decrease (p < 0.0001) compared to injured untreated controls. These findings demonstrate that seeding density and serum conditions are critical variables that quantitatively modulate the efficacy of SC-SMC-CM. The study highlights that BM-SMC-derived CM offers a more stable platform for elastin maintenance under serum-free conditions, providing a foundation for developing tailored, cell-free regenerative therapies for cardiovascular disease.© 2026. The Author(s).
Chronic psychological stress is increasingly recognized as an important host-related determinant of cancer progression, yet how stress-associated neuroendocrine signaling reshapes the metastatic immune microenvironment remains incompletely understood. Here, using male mouse models of chronic restraint stress and chronic unpredictable mild stress, together with transcriptomic profiling, flow cytometry, functional assays, and a prospective clinical cohort, we investigated whether chronic stress promotes gastric cancer liver metastasis through glucocorticoid-associated neutrophil reprogramming, neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) formation, and hepatic immune remodeling. Chronic stress induced robust behavioral stress phenotypes, elevated corticosterone levels, and increased hepatic metastatic burden. Immune profiling revealed a myeloid-skewed and immunosuppressive hepatic niche characterized by neutrophil accumulation, impaired CD8+ T-cell effector function, and enhanced T-cell exhaustion. Mechanistically, glucocorticoids activated neutrophils through glucocorticoid receptor signaling, increased reactive oxygen species, and promoted NET formation, whereas pharmacological inhibition of glucocorticoid receptor signaling, degradation of NETs, or antibody-mediated neutrophil depletion attenuated stress-associated metastatic progression in vivo. In parallel, glucocorticoid stimulation increased hepatic lipocalin 2 (LCN2) expression and secretion, and conditioned medium from glucocorticoid-treated hepatocytes enhanced neutrophil migration, an effect attenuated by pharmacological LCN2 inhibition. In vivo, LCN2 blockade reduced circulating LCN2 levels and alleviated hepatic metastatic burden. In patients with gastric cancer liver metastasis, higher stress burden was associated with elevated cortisol and circulating myeloperoxidase-DNA levels and with shorter progression-free survival. Multivariable Cox regression further supported an association between Perceived Stress Scale-defined stress burden and shorter progression-free survival. Together, these findings support a stress-associated glucocorticoid-neutrophil-hepatic niche axis linking chronic stress to metastatic progression.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a relapsing inflammatory disorder of the intestine for which safe and effective therapeutic strategies are urgently needed. The present study aimed to isolate a novel probiotic strain from traditionally fermented mare's milk (koumiss) and to characterise its molecular mechanism of action in alleviating UC through modulation of lipocalin-2 (LCN2) and the NLRP3 inflammasome-mediated pyroptosis pathway. We conducted a systematic investigation integrating microbiological characterisation, whole-genome sequencing, bioinformatic mining and a DSS-induced mouse model of colitis. The results suggested that the isolated Enterococcus faecium MMX strain exhibited no haemolytic activity, strong bile salt tolerance, absence of typical virulence factors, and carried certain resistance genes, while also harbouring multiple probiotic-associated functional genes. Multi-dataset machine learning analysis identified LCN2 as a key biomarker of UC, with its expression highly positively correlated with neutrophil infiltration. In vivo experiments revealed that E. faecium MMX significantly improved the disease activity index, restored the intestinal epithelial barrier (with recovery of E-cadherin expression), promoted goblet cell regeneration and markedly suppressed neutrophil infiltration. Mechanistically, E. faecium MMX treatment was associated with reduced total LCN2 expression in colonic tissue and a shift in its cellular source from a predominantly pro-inflammatory neutrophil-derived localisation to an epithelial cell-derived localisation, accompanied by suppression of the NF-κB pathway (as evidenced by reduced p-p65 levels), which correlated with inhibition of the NLRP3/cleaved-caspase-1/GSDMD-N/IL-1β pyroptosis signalling axis and diminishing the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines, including mature IL-1β and mature IL-18, as confirmed by ELISA and western blot analyses. Collectively, these findings suggest that E. faecium MMX may exert its anti-colitic effects by remodelling the host immune microenvironment, downregulating LCN2 and NF-κB signalling, and inhibiting pyroptosis, positioning it as a promising candidate for microbiota-based intervention in UC.
Cerebellar climbing fiber-Purkinje cell (CF-PC) long-term depression (LTD) plays a critical role in motor learning and is modulated by locus coeruleus (LC) noradrenergic afferents via distinct adrenergic receptor (AR) subtypes. Nevertheless, the mechanisms underlying LC noradrenergic neuron-mediated regulation of CF-PC LTD remain poorly understood. Here, we investigated the effects of chemogenetic activation of LC noradrenergic afferents on CF-PC LTD in cerebellar slices from dopamine β-hydroxylase (DBH)-Cre mice using electrophysiology, glutamate sensor imaging, immunofluorescence and pharmacological approaches. Tetanic stimulation (5 Hz) of CFs induced CF-PC LTD under control conditions, and this LTD was enhanced by chemogenetic activation of LC noradrenergic afferents. Blockade of group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR1) abolished LTD under control conditions, whereas chemogenetic activation of LC noradrenergic afferents triggered a novel form of CF-PC LTD accompanied by an increased N2/N1 ratio. With mGluR1 blocked, chemogenetic activation of LC noradrenergic afferents failed to trigger the novel CF-PC LTD following blockade of α2-AR or α2A-AR, but not α2B-AR or α2C-AR. Importantly, chemogenetic activation of LC noradrenergic afferents triggered LTD of glutamate fluorescence at CF terminals, which was abolished by blockade of α2-AR or α2A-AR, but not α2B-AR or α2C-AR. Notably, inhibition of either cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (CDK5) or presynaptic, but not postsynaptic, protein kinase A (PKA) completely abolished the CF-PC LTD triggered by chemogenetic activation of LC noradrenergic afferents in mouse cerebellar slices. Immunofluorescence results showed robust α2A-AR expression throughout the cerebellar molecular layer, with intense signals along PC dendrites and clear colocalization with vesicular glutamate transporter 2 (vGluT2) at cerebellar CF terminals. These results indicate that activation of LC noradrenergic afferents potentiates CF-PC LTD by triggering Glu-LTD at CF terminals through the α2A-AR/CDK5/PKA signaling cascade in the mouse cerebellar cortex.
Sepsis-associated acute kidney injury (SA-AKI) is a common and severe complication of sepsis. Lipocalin-2 (LCN2), a biomarker for SA-AKI, has an undefined role and underlying molecular mechanism in regulating renal ferroptosis. This study aimed to elucidate the regulatory function and potential mechanism of LCN2 in renal ferroptosis during SA-AKI. In vivo, a murine sepsis model was established using cecal ligation and puncture (CLP), while in vitro, human renal tubular epithelial cells (HK-2) were stimulated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to mimic SA-AKI. Histopathological, biochemical, and molecular analyses were performed to assess renal injury, oxidative stress, inflammatory responses, and ferroptosis-related indicators. In vivo, LCN2 knockout significantly attenuated renal pathological damage, reduced oxidative stress and inflammatory cytokine expression, and inhibited renal ferroptosis. Mechanistically, LCN2 knockout enhanced AMPK phosphorylation and upregulated SIRT3 expression, promoted deacetylation of FOXO3a, and upregulated the expression of antioxidant and anti-ferroptotic proteins. In vitro, LCN2 overexpression exacerbated LPS-induced ferroptosis in HK-2 cells, whereas activation of AMPK or overexpression of SIRT3 reversed this effect, as reflected by improved markers of ferroptosis and oxidative stress. Collectively, our findings suggest that LCN2 may promote renal ferroptosis and contribute to the progression of SA-AKI, potentially involving inhibition of the AMPK/SIRT3/FOXO3a pathway. These observations indicate that LCN2 could be further explored as a candidate molecular target for the clinical treatment of SA-AKI.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) is increasingly recognised as a systemic condition associated with cardiometabolic and neurovascular alterations. Lipocalin-2 (LCN2), a marker of adipo-neuroinflammation, may represent a link between metabolic dysfunction, vascular impairment, and cognitive decline.In this cross-sectional study, we enrolled a group of 40 patients with a recent diagnosis of MASLD and a control group of 40 patients with no history of anamnestic or active liver disease. We evaluated serum LCN2 levels, endothelial function assessed by reactive hyperemia index (RHI), myocardial mechano-energetic efficiency (MMEE), and cognitive performance using the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE). Multivariable analyses were adjusted for age, BMI, and diabetes mellitus.Compared with controls, patients with MASLD showed higher LCN2 levels, lower RHI and MMEE values, and lower MMSE scores. MASLD was independently associated with lower RHI, lower MMSE, and higher LCN2 levels in multivariable models. However, additional partial correlation analyses adjusting for major cardiometabolic confounders did not confirm independent associations between LCN2 and vascular or cognitive parameters.MASLD is associated with endothelial dysfunction, early cognitive changes, and increased LCN2 levels. However, these relationships appear to be largely influenced by the underlying cardiometabolic profile. LCN2 should be interpreted primarily as a marker of systemic metabolic and inflammatory burden rather than as a causal mediator.
Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is a serious microvascular complication of diabetes mellitus. Recent studies have shown elevated lipocalin-2 in complications associated with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). These elevated lipocalin-2 levels have been linked with dysregulated lipid metabolism and inflammation, and they may potentially contribute to the disease severity of DR.The study aimed to assess and compare serum levels of lipocalin-2 in T2DM patients with and without retinopathy and to uncover its role in the progression of DR.This study involved 82 T2DM patients divided into two groups according to the presence (n=41) or absence of DR (n=41). Clinical parameters like glucose, lipid profile (triglyceride, very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL), low-density lipoprotein (LDL), high-density lipoprotein (HDL), and total cholesterol), urea, and creatinine values were analyzed using an autoanalyzer. The anthropometric parameters were measured, and an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for lipocalin-2 and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) was performed.Serum levels of lipocalin-2 (<0.01) and TNF-alpha (<0.01) were significantly elevated in patients with DR compared to those without DR.The findings suggest that lipocalin-2 and TNF-alpha could serve as potential circulating biomarkers for DR in individuals with T2DM. Their significant association with DR emphasizes their possible role in early identification of risk and monitoring of disease progression.Copyright © 2026, Naz et al.
Prostate cancer remains a significant therapeutic challenge in male urologic oncology. Characterized by an immunosuppressive microenvironment, it is commonly described as an immunologically "cold" tumor. This study elucidates the role of TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) within the immune landscape of prostate cancer. We observed marked downregulation of TRAF6 in both patient-derived tissues and cultured prostate cancer cell lines. Functional assays demonstrated that TRAF6 upregulation robustly suppresses cancer cell proliferation and migration. Mechanistically, we discovered that TRAF6 sensitizes prostate cancer cells to CD8+ T cell-mediated ferroptosis by targeting Lipocalin 2 (LCN2) for proteasomal degradation. The anti-tumor effects of TRAF6 overexpression were reversed upon LCN2 restoration. Further analyses showed that TRAF6 promotes LCN2 ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation. Our results reveal a previously unrecognized pathway by which TRAF6 modulates tumor cell susceptibility to CD8+ T cell-associated ferroptosis, highlighting the translational potential of targeting the TRAF6-LCN2 signaling axis in prostate cancer therapy.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Notwithstanding progress in chemotherapy, cancer recurrence resulting from metastasis continues to be a significant challenge. Consequently, targeting the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) has emerged as a viable approach to impede metastasis and enhance therapy success. In colorectal cancer, current initiatives focus on discovering new agents that are both efficacious and less harmful to normal cells. Plant-derived flavonoids and metal-based compounds exhibit significant medicinal potential. This research examined the anticancer efficacy of a Cu(II)-flavonoid complex comprising quercetin and 1,10-phenanthroline ligands in colorectal cancer cell lines HCT-116 and HT-29. The sulforhodamine B (SRB) assay assessed cell viability, yielding IC₅₀ values of 3.19 μM for HCT-116 and 1.81 μM for HT-29 after 48 h, but the individual ligands demonstrated no similar cytotoxicity. The compound exhibited lower cytotoxicity to normal colon cells (CCD-18Co) than toward colorectal cancer cells (HCT-116 and HT-29). Apoptosis induction was verified with Hoechst 33342, Annexin-V-FITC, and propidium Iodide staining, supplemented by M30-antigen ELISA, and further corroborated by the pan-caspase inhibitor Z-VAD-FMK and elevated levels of apoptotic protein markers such as cleaved caspase-8 and parp-1. Flow cytometry revealed G₀/G₁ phase arrest, indicating caspase-dependent apoptotic cell death. The compound also impeded epithelial-mesenchymal transition, as demonstrated by a dose-dependent reduction in migration and invasion in wound healing and Matrigel invasion experiments. Western blot analysis revealed elevated levels of E-cadherin and reduced levels of N-cadherin, vimentin, and snail. The Cu(II)-flavonoid combination demonstrates significant anti-proliferative, pro-apoptotic, and anti-metastatic properties in colorectal cancer cells, while exhibiting lower cytotoxic effects in normal colon cells. This underscores its potential as a viable candidate for additional molecular and in vivo assessment of the complex in colorectal cancer.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Cisplatin, a widely used anticancer agent, has adverse effects on normal tissues during cancer treatment. This study aimed to investigate the use of harmine, a plant β-carboline alkaloid, against pathways associated with ROS-induced apoptosis in the livers of mice administered with cisplatin.Twenty-four male Balb/c mice were randomly assigned to four groups (n = 6): (1) control group received daily intraperitoneal injections of saline for four days, (2) harmine group (15 mg/kg, intraperitoneally, daily for 4 days), (3) cisplatin group (5.5 mg/kg, intraperitoneally, one injection), and (4) cisplatin + harmine co-administration group. After sacrificing the animals under deep anesthesia, blood and liver tissue samples were collected for biochemical and molecular experiments.Cisplatin significantly elevated histopathological criteria (both qualitative and quantitative), levels of enzyme activity, malondialdehyde, nitric oxide, ROS, and apoptosis, and decreased glutathione, superoxide dismutase, and total antioxidant capacity. However, these factors were improved in the co-administration group compared to the cisplatin group. Furthermore, cisplatin treatment significantly upregulated caspase-8, BAX, p53, caspase-3, TNF-α, and NF-κB gene expression, while downregulating BCL-2. Co-administration with harmine led to significant changes in gene expression relative to the cisplatin group. Cisplatin notably increased protein levels of caspase-8, BAX, and TNF-α, but these levels were significantly reduced in the co-treatment group.Harmine effectively ameliorates cisplatin-induced hepatitis by suppressing ROS production, thereby reducing intrinsic, extrinsic, and inflammation-induced apoptosis. These findings suggest that the antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties of Harmine play a key role in its hepatoprotective actions.Copyright: © 2026 Research in Pharmaceutical Sciences.
The toxic mechanisms of norgestrel (NGT), an emerging marine pollutant, on the sperm from externally fertilized invertebrates remain elusive. This study employed an integrated physiological and multi-omics framework to elucidate how NGT (10 and 1000 ng/L) disrupts acrosome reaction (AR) signaling machinery, thereby impairing the functional integrity of Pacific oyster (Crassostrea gigas, also known as Magallana gigas) sperm. Exposure to NGT triggered a significant, dose-dependent premature AR, characterized by elevated acrosin activity and a loss of acrosomal integrity. Multi-omics integration supports a model in which this premature exocytosis is linked to signaling disturbances, including disruption of calcium signaling and reduced transcript abundance of calmodulin (CaM) and the primary recognition protein zonadhesin (Zan). This signaling interference induced an premature AR, subsequently driving a cascade of bioenergetic and structural failures. At the mitochondrial level, NGT induced abnormal mitochondrial permeability transition pore (mPTP) opening and elevated the transcript levels of antioxidant defense genes (e.g., peroxiredoxin-5, PRDX5). These alterations indicate the occurrence of mitochondrial collapse. Concurrently, scanning electron microscopy verified localized plasma membrane wrinkling and pore formation in sperm. In addition, NGT exposure decreased the transcript abundance of cytoskeleton-related genes, including solute carrier family 26 member 6 (SLC26A6), actin (ACT), and tubulin polymerization promoting protein family member 3 (TPPP3). These molecular changes further disrupted membrane phospholipid homeostasis, as represented by altered glycerophospholipid metabolism. At the same time, cumulative cellular stress was associated with decreased transcript abundance of cytoprotective factors (e.g., baculoviral IAP repeat-containing proteins, birc2) and changes in apoptosis-related genes consistent with activation of a caspase-8-mediated apoptotic programme. In conclusion, NGT, as a representative synthetic progestin, exerts reproductive toxicity by interfering with signaling mediators to induce premature AR, which subsequently exhausts metabolic energy and triggers plasma membrane impairment. These findings provide a critical mechanistic basis for the aquatic ecological risk assessment of synthetic progestins.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Colorectal cancer remains a leading cause of cancer-related death, and there is an urgent need for new therapies that can specifically induce tumor cell apoptosis. Plant polyphenols have emerged as promising alternatives for cancer treatment. Flourensia cernua and F. retinophylla are polyphenol-rich plants native to northern Mexico, known for their use in traditional medicine, and recently reported to have anti-inflammatory and antimicrobial properties; however, their anticancer effects remain poorly studied. This study aimed to evaluate the ability of polyphenolic extracts from F. cernua and F. retinophylla to induce apoptosis in HT-29 human colon adenocarcinoma cells in vitro and to explore the mechanisms of cell death triggered by these extracts. Polyphenolic extracts were prepared from dried leaves using ethanol and analyzed for antioxidant activity and polyphenolic composition. HT-29 cells were treated with different concentrations, and cytotoxicity was measured by MTT assay. Apoptosis was analyzed through intrinsic and extrinsic pathways, caspase activity, and detection of apoptosis-related proteins via Western blot and antibody array. Both Flourensia extracts are rich in polyphenols and exhibit high antioxidant capacity. Treatment with the extracts caused dose-dependent growth inhibition of HT-29 cells. F. cernua extract triggered cytochrome c and SMAC release, indicating activation of the intrinsic pathway, and also upregulated death receptor proteins and caspase-8, indicating engagement of the extrinsic pathway. F. retinophylla produced a weaker response, mainly modulating intrinsic-pathway markers. Both extracts also increased caspase-3 levels, consistent with engagement of apoptotic signaling. These findings demonstrate the potential of Flourensia-derived extracts as alternative anticancer agents with apoptosis-inducing potential in human colon adenocarcinoma cells.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Refined Changqin NO.1 (R-Cq1) has shown favorable therapeutic effects in traumatic brain injury (TBI), which triggers neuronal PANoptosis and involves dysregulation of gut microbiota and metabolites.This study investigates whether R-Cq1 improves TBI through gut-brain axis-mediated neuronal PANoptosis.A TBI mouse model and injured neurons were used to assess the effects of R-Cq1 on gut microbiota, short-chain fatty acid (SCFA) profiles, TNF-α signaling, and neuronal PANoptosis.R-Cq1 was administered to TBI mice, and their fecal samples were subjected to 16S rRNA sequencing and targeted metabolomics. Injured neurons were treated with 3-methylbutanoic acid (3-MA), R-Cq1, and TNF-α inhibitor 3,6'-dithiothalidomide, followed by assessment of neuronal PANoptosis. Anaerotruncus colihominis was transplanted into R-Cq1-treated TBI mice, which underwent neurological function assessment.R-Cq1 improved neurological outcomes in TBI mice and attenuated TBI-induced neuronal death. Immunofluorescence analysis of the gut revealed TBI-induced intestinal barrier disruption, which was mitigated by R-Cq1. Consistently, R-Cq1 reshaped the gut microbiota, reducing the abundance of the genus Anaerotruncus in TBI mice. Anaerotruncus showed a significant positive correlation with modified neurological severity scores. TBI induced alterations in SCFA profiles, with 3-MA significantly increased, which was suppressed by R-Cq1 treatment. 3-MA was positively correlated with modified neurological severity scores and genus Anaerotruncus. In vitro, 3-MA exacerbated PANoptosis, as indicated by increased levels of N-GSDMD, p-MLKL, and cleaved caspase-8, and reversed the inhibitory effect of R-Cq1 on PANoptosis. We also found that 3-MA upregulated TNF-α in scratched neurons. However, when TNF-α was inhibited, the pro-PANoptotic effect of 3-MA was attenuated. In TBI mice treated with R-Cq1, gavage with 3-MA-related Anaerotruncus colihominis abolished the neuroprotective effects of R-Cq1 and increased neuronal death.Collectively, R-Cq1 suppresses Anaerotruncus-associated 3-MA to hinder TNF-α upregulation, thereby alleviating neuronal PANoptosis and TBI. This study elucidates the underlying therapeutic mechanism of R-Cq1 in TBI.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier GmbH.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42537460 is a review article
The Editor-in-Chief, in accordance with the Publisher, has retracted the following articles published between 2017 and 2019 on the grounds of figure duplication and manipulation, subsequent to concerns raised on PubPeer. The corresponding authors of all articles have been contacted several times and were asked to provide the original data, but no responses were received. This retraction notice pertains to the following articles and is carried out in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee on Publication Ethics (COPE): 1.  Mani J, Fleger J, Rutz J, Maxeiner S, Bernd A, Kippenberger S, Zöller N, Chun FK, Relja B, Juengel E, Blaheta RA. Curcumin combined with exposure to visible light blocks bladder cancer cell adhesion and migration by an integrin dependent mechanism. Eur Rev Med Pharmacol Sci 2019; 23(23): 10564-10574-DOI: 10.26355/eurrev_201912_19698-PMID: 31841214. 2.  Ma JB, Hu SL, Zang RK, Su Y, Liang YC, Wang Y. MicroRNA-487a promotes proliferation of esophageal cancer cells by inhibiting p62 expression. Eur Rev Med Pharmacol Sci 2019; 23(4): 1502-1512-DOI: 10.26355/eurrev_201902_17108-PMID: 30840272. 3.  Ma YX, Zhang H, Li XH, Liu YH. MiR-30e-5p inhibits proliferation and metastasis of nasopharyngeal carcinoma cells by target-ing USP22. Eur Rev Med Pharmacol Sci 2018; 22(19): 6342-6349-DOI: 10.26355/eurrev_201810_16045-PMID: 30338802. 4.  Gao AG, Zhou YC, Hu ZJ, Lu BB. Ipriflavone promotes osteogenesis of MSCs derived from osteoporotic rats. Eur Rev Med Pharmacol Sci 2018; 22(14): 4669-4676-DOI: 10.26355/eurrev_201807_15527-PMID: 30058710. 5.  Du XY, Liu X, Wang ZJ, Wang YY. SLPI promotes the gastric cancer growth and metastasis by regulating the expression of P53, Bcl-2 and Caspase-8. Eur Rev Med Pharmacol Sci 2017; 21(7): 1495-1501-PMID: 28429358. The authors have been informed about the retraction but remained unresponsive. These articles have been retracted. The Publisher apologizes for any inconvenience this may cause.
Aurones are plant flavonoids that generally exhibit oxidative stress and anticancer properties. We developed a novel aurone analog, LYK01, but its biological effects have yet to be examined, particularly in relation to its anticancer functions. In our experiment, LYK01 inhibited the proliferation of four types of oral cancer cells with limited cytotoxicity to normal oral cells, attenuated by N-acetylcysteine (NAC), demonstrating a selective ability to kill oral cancer cells. Regarding NAC pretreatment, the LYK01-induced mechanisms were confirmed to be oxidative stress-dependent. Mechanistically, LYK01 triggers G2/M arrest, oxidative stress (ROS and MitoSOX), DNA damage (γH2AX), and extrinsic caspase 8/3-based apoptosis to a greater extent in oral cancer cells than normal cells. Regarding MAPK inhibitors for p38, JNK, and ERK, LYK01-induced antiproliferation and apoptosis in oral cancer cells were attenuated. In conclusion, LYK01 exhibits preferential antiproliferative effects in oral cancer cells -mediated by oxidative stress and MAPK-associated pathways-while exhibiting limited cytotoxicity toward normal cells. These findings warrant in vivo and translational validation.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42554391 is a review article
Proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) targeted therapies have been shown to reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels and circulating PCSK9. However, its effect on cerebrovascular outcomes, especially stroke and dementia, has not been well established to date.We conducted a systematic literature search of electronic databases for relevant randomized controlled trials (RCTs) from inception through January 2025. Odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) were pooled using a random-effect model, and a p-value of <0.05 was considered statistically significant.A total of 22 RCTs with 64,116 patients were included in the study. Pooled analysis showed that PCSK9-targeted therapy significantly reduced the risk of all-cause stroke (OR, 0.78 (95% CI: 0.68-0.90), P < 0.001) and ischemic stroke (OR, 0.77 (95% CI: 0.63-0.94), P=0.01). However, no significant association was observed for the risk of hemorrhagic stroke (OR, 1.16 (95%CI: 0.70-1.93), P=0.56), transient ischemic attack (OR, 0.98 (95%CI: 0.48-2.06), P= 0.95), dementia (OR, 0.77 (95%CI: 0.14-4.28), P=0.76), dementia of Alzheimer's type (OR, 0.81 (95%CI: 0.14-4.70), P=0.82), and Parkinson's disease (OR, 0.82 (95%CI: 0.11-6.37), P=0.85).PCSK9 targeted therapies appear to reduce the risk of stroke; however, no significant association was observed for the risk of dementia and Parkinson's disease.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) is a validated therapeutic target for regulating low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels and treating dyslipidemia-related cardiovascular diseases. In this study, pharmacophore-based virtual screening identified 4 (ZINC4681905) as a lead compound, which was subsequently optimized into a series of N,N'-diacyl-m-phenylenediamine derivatives. A total of fourteen compounds were synthesized and evaluated using a fluorescence polarization-based assay. Among them, compound 4a exhibits the highest potency with an IC50 value of 1.07 μM, surpassing that of the positive control berberine (IC50 = 2.59 μM), while compound 4f shows comparable activity. Structure-activity relationship (SAR) analysis revealed that the inhibitory activity of this N,N'-diacyl-m-phenylenediamine scaffold is influenced by the cooperative interplay of the two terminal substituents, with a combination of a multisubstituted hydrophobic aryl group and a flexible, bulky alicyclic moiety affording favorable potency. In cell-based assays, 4a reduced PCSK9 expression and concurrently increased low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) levels in HK-2 cells, and this effect was partially rescued by PCSK9 overexpression, providing supportive cell-based evidence for the involvement of the PCSK9 pathway. Collectively, these findings support further optimization of this scaffold as a potential class of small molecule PCSK9 inhibitors. However, direct LDL uptake assays and assessment of PCSK9-LDLR interaction disruption have not been performed; therefore, the functional evidence remains preliminary.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.
Current guidelines recommend initial high-intensity statin monotherapy and "the wait and watch paradigm," even in patients with acute ischemic stroke (AIS). However, newer lipid-lowering therapies allow aggressive low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) reduction without drug class restriction. The effectiveness of triple therapy (early aggressive strategy) comprising a proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) inhibitor, ezetimibe, and a high-intensity statin after endovascular thrombectomy (EVT) for emergent large vessel occlusion (ELVO) remains uncertain.We retrospectively analyzed patients with AIS due to ELVO who underwent successful EVT at four comprehensive stroke centers between January 2021 and December 2024. Patients were classified into triple therapy or high-intensity statin monotherapy (standard therapy) and followed up for 90 days. Multivariable regression and propensity score matching were used.Among 197 patients (mean age, 70.8 ± 12.1; 36.0% male), 55 received triple therapy. Baseline total cholesterol (TC) and LDL-C levels were comparable between groups. At both 4 and 12 weeks, the triple therapy group demonstrated significantly lower mean TC and LDL-C levels compared with the standard therapy group. Triple therapy was independently associated with a reduced risk of early neurological deterioration (adjusted odds ratio [aOR], 0.14; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.03-0.81). In the subgroup of patients with ELVO due to large-artery atherosclerosis (LAA), triple therapy was further associated with a higher likelihood of functional independence at 90 days (aOR 9.30; 95% CI 1.86-46.56).Triple therapy achieved faster and greater LDL-C reduction and improved clinical outcomes following EVT, particularly among patients with AIS due to ELVO from LAA.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
This Journal of Clinical Lipidology Roundtable presents a conversation between Drs Robert P. Giugliano, Nicholas A. Marston, and Kevin C. Maki, who discussed clinical trials investigating intensive low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) reduction in high-risk patients. Their focus was on cardiovascular outcomes data from the recent Effect of Evolocumab in Patients at High Cardiovascular Risk Without Prior Myocardial Infarction or Stroke (VESALIUS-CV) trial, as well as earlier secondary prevention outcomes trials for proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) inhibitor monoclonal antibody agents: Further Cardiovascular Outcomes Research With PCSK9 Inhibition in Subjects With Elevated Risk (FOURIER) and Evaluation of Cardiovascular Outcomes After an Acute Coronary Syndrome During Treatment with Alirocumab (ODYSSEY Outcomes). In addition to comparing and contrasting the study designs, populations enrolled, and primary endpoint results between these primary and secondary prevention trials, the group also discussed high-risk subgroups and the important role of imaging in primary prevention, as well as the potential implications of recent trial findings on guideline recommendations for LDL-C treatment goals. Their conversation emphasized 2 themes demonstrated in recent data: (1) the importance of aggressively treating LDL-C earlier, and (2) the benefits in high-risk primary prevention of reducing LDL-C to lower levels than those recommended in current guidelines.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Most drugs target proteins, and proteome-wide genetic analyses in diverse populations could discover potential novel and repurposed targets for improved prevention and treatment of ischemic heart disease (IHD) beyond statin therapy.The purposes of this study were to use cis-acting single nucleotide polymorphisms (cis-pQTLs) identified for plasma proteins in East Asians and Europeans to discover and validate potential drug targets for IHD.We measured plasma levels of 9,520 (Olink/SomaScan: 2,923/7,297) proteins in a case-cohort study of IHD (1,976 incident cases and 2,001 subcohort controls) in statin-free individuals in the prospective China Kadoorie Biobank (CKB). Genome-wide association studies identified 2,895 (Olink/SomaScan: 1,301/1,594) cis-pQTLs for these proteins in CKB. Two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) and colocalization analyses assessed associations of all available cis-pQTLs for these proteins with IHD in East Asians (n = 29,319 cases), with further replication in Europeans (n = 181,522 cases) and comparison with findings in previous MR studies.In CKB observational analyses, a total of 959 (Olink/SomaScan: 426/533) proteins were associated at false discovery rate-corrected P < 0.05 with IHD after adjusting for major IHD risk factors. Two-sample MR analyses provided genetic support for 54 unique (Olink/SomaScan: 36/28) proteins in IHD etiology. Colocalization analyses confirmed shared gene-protein-IHD associations (posterior probability of hypothesis 4 [PPH4] ≥0.8) for 15 unique (Olink/SomaScan: 10/10) proteins, including 8 lipid-related, 3 inflammation-related, 1 blood pressure-related, and 3 alcohol-related proteins in East Asians. In Europeans, MR analyses of 12 non-alcohol-related proteins showed directionally concordant results for 8 proteins, with 5 having strong colocalization evidence of shared gene-protein-IHD associations (PPH4 ≥0.8), including 4 lipid-related (proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9, LPA, APOE, cadherin-1) and 1 systolic blood pressure-related (fibroblast growth factor 5) protein. However, 4 proteins showed directionally discordant MR results, including 2 lipid-related (APOA5, SORT1) and 1 inflammation-related (transforming growth factor beta 1) proteins with strong colocalization evidence of shared gene-protein-IHD associations (PPH4 ≥0.8). Comparison with previous MR studies revealed little consistency across studies in the number and identity of target proteins for IHD beyond well-established lipid-related (low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, lipoprotein(a), and triglycerides) or inflammation-related (interleukin-6) protein targets.The findings support a role for lipid-driven chronic inflammation in IHD etiology, and treatment strategies simultaneously targeting multiple lipid and inflammation pathways should be prioritized for further research to improve drug treatment of IHD beyond statin therapy.Copyright © 2026 American College of Cardiology Foundation. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42492394 is a review article
Immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) targeting the programmed cell death 1 (PD-1)/programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) axis has shown promise in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), but clinical responses are often limited in durability. Identifying novel drivers of immune evasion is crucial for improving therapeutic strategies.We employed a multi-omics integrative framework to identify HCC-specific immune biomarkers. Functional roles were validated using in vitro and in vivo models, including UDP-glucuronate decarboxylase 1 (UXS1) knockout/overexpression, co-culture assays, and various mouse models. Molecular mechanisms were dissected using immunoprecipitation coupled with mass spectrometry, ubiquitination assays, chromatin immunoprecipitation, luciferase reporter assays, and single-cell RNA sequencing.We identified the glycosyltransferase UXS1 as a novel immune-related prognostic hub gene in HCC. UXS1 was upregulated due to copy number gain and MZF1-driven promoter hypomethylation. Functionally, UXS1 promoted HCC malignancy independently of its canonical enzymatic activity. Mechanistically, UXS1 interacted with the E3 ligase F-box and WD repeat domain-containing 7 (FBXW7) to promote histone-lysine N-methyltransferase 2D (KMT2D) ubiquitination and degradation. We further discovered that KMT2D, acting as a non-catalytic scaffold, recruited the transcriptional repressor CCAAT enhancer binding protein beta (CEBPB) to the PD-L1 promoter to maintain its repression. UXS1-mediated KMT2D degradation disrupted this complex, leading to CEBPB dissociation and consequent PD-L1 transcriptional derepression. In vivo, UXS1 suppressed CD8+ T-cell effector function. UXS1 knockout synergized with anti-PD-1 therapy, and in human HCC, high UXS1 correlated with low KMT2D, high PD-L1, and reduced CD8+ T-cell infiltration.This study defines a novel UXS1-KMT2D-CEBPB-PD-L1 signaling axis, revealing how UXS1 drives immune evasion in HCC via epigenetic reprogramming. Targeting this axis may represent a potential strategy to overcome immune resistance, warranting further clinical investigation.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSC) remains a cancer with a poor prognosis despite treatment options of surgery, chemotherapy, radiotherapy, targeted therapy, and immunotherapy. Novel targets and therapeutics await identification. The aim of this study was to identify such targets and therapeutics using a prognosis-based approach and validate them experimentally.UALCAN, cBioPortal, Reactome, L2S2, and TIMER3 were used to study the prognosis, gene expression, pathways, therapeutics, and immunity of HNSC, respectively. Ubiquitin-specific peptidase 53 (USP53) was among the top prognostic factors in HNSC based on the UALCAN analysis. The FaDu human HNSC cell line, which exhibits high USP53 expression, was used in the subsequent experiments. Cell proliferation, cell cycle, sphere formation, and proximity ligation assays were performed.USP53 was found to be downregulated in HNSC and predicted a better prognosis. The pathway and therapeutic analyses revealed that USP53-low HNSC was enriched in cell-cycle dysregulation and could be mimicked by a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor (CDKi). In vitro, USP53 knockdown increased HNSC proliferation and sensitivity to CDKi in two- and three-dimensional assays. Multiomic analyses revealed that USP53 may deubiquitinate F-box and WD repeat domain-containing 7 (FBXW7) and subsequently suppress HNSC proliferation. This was verified using a proximity ligation assay (PLA). Lastly, USP53 is negatively associated with M2 macrophages.USP53 functions as a critical tumor suppressor in HNSC by post-translationally stabilizing the E3 ubiquitin ligase FBXW7. This molecular mechanism establishes a targetable cell-cycle vulnerability sensitive to cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors and uncovers a direct connection between deubiquitinase activity and tumor immune cell infiltration.Copyright © 2026 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
Anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA)-associated vasculitis (AAV) is a severe autoimmune disease that lacks effective targeted therapies. T cell and neutrophil activation are associated with tissue lesions in ANCA-associated vasculitis responsible for the necrotizing vasculitis of small blood vessels. Although the aberrant release of reactive oxygen species (ROS) by neutrophils contribute to the disruption of the endothelial barrier, the underlying molecular mechanisms of this oxidative burst remain unclear. Here, we observe that blood vessels in the inflamed organs of patients with AAV express CD95L, which is cleaved by metalloproteases to release soluble CD95L (sCD95L). sCD95L stimulates ROS production in AAV neutrophils via a caspase-driven mechanism. Proteomic analysis reveals that the deubiquitinase OTULIN is a caspase substrate in sCD95L-exposed neutrophils. Caspase-10 cleaves OTULIN after its aspartates at positions 31 and 54 to unleash the activity of E3 ligase complex LUBAC and trigger mitochondrion-dependent ROS production in AAV neutrophils. Inhibition of the CD95-mediated non-apoptotic signaling abrogates ROS production in AAV neutrophils and alleviates clinical symptoms in AAV and crescentic glomerulonephritis mouse models, indicating that CD95 and CD95L represent attractive molecular targets for patients with AAV.© 2026. The Author(s).
Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is driven by the BCR-ABL1 fusion oncoprotein and is managed with tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs). However, resistance and persistence of leukemic stem/progenitor cells remain major clinical challenges. Autophagy-mediated survival signaling contributes to therapeutic resistance in CML. We hypothesized that histone deacetylase 6 (HDAC6), a key regulator of protein homeostasis and autophagic flux, is a therapeutic target in this context. Transcriptomic analysis of CML bone marrow datasets revealed enrichment of HDAC6-associated autophagy and stress-response gene programs. The selective HDAC6 inhibitor 7b induced sustained α-tubulin acetylation at lower concentrations than ricolinostat or nexturastat A. 7b reduced primary CML PBMC viability while sparing healthy PBMCs and was active in vivo. Combining 7b with the allosteric BCR-ABL1 inhibitor asciminib synergistically suppressed cell viability and clonogenic growth. A tandem mCherry-GFP-LC3 reporter showed that 7b blocks autophagosome maturation, thereby decreasing autophagic degradation. Cotreatment engaged a maladaptive integrated stress response (ISR), characterized by eIF2α phosphorylation, ATF4 and CHOP induction, MCL-1 suppression, PUMA and NOXA upregulation, and BCL-xL-dependent mitochondrial apoptosis, accompanied by caspase-2 activation. ISR activation occurred downstream of the autophagy disruption: rapamycin attenuated ISR activation, whereas ATG7 silencing intensified ISR signaling and apoptosis. CHOP knockdown blunted the BCL-xL/PUMA/NOXA shift and caspase-3 cleavage, establishing CHOP as required. Caspase-10 acted upstream of caspases-9, -7, and -3. The combination elicited immunogenic cell death markers: calreticulin exposure, ATP and HMGB1 release, elevated TNF-α, and reduced IL-8. These findings identify HDAC6-driven autophagy as a therapeutically exploitable vulnerability in CML that, when combined with asciminib, triggers ISR-dependent immunogenic apoptosis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights reserved.
Aberrant epigenetic modification is one of the characteristics of the cancer genome. DNA hypermethylation of cytosine-phospho-guanine (CpG) islands, a hallmark of cancer cells, is well-studied and contributes to cancer development by silencing tumor suppressor genes. However, the mechanisms and biological significance of global DNA hypomethylation in cancer are still unclear. Here, using the v-Raf murine sarcoma viral oncogene homolog B1 (BRAF) V600E knock-in mouse models, we demonstrate that endogenous expression of oncogenic BRAFV600E in non-transformed cells promotes global DNA hypomethylation by increasing the levels of ten-eleven translocation 3 (TET3), which converts 5-methylcytosine (5-mC) into 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5-hmC). Furthermore, TET3 is targeted for proteasomal degradation by F-box and WD repeat domain containing 7 (FBXW7). BRAFV600E increases TET3 levels by inhibiting glycogen synthase kinase 3β (GSK3β), which phosphorylates TET3 and leads to its ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation. We further found elevated levels of TET3 and 5-hmC in BRAFV600E-induced mouse lung tumors and show that TET3 enhances the ability of BRAFV600E to induce the formation of lung tumors. Notably, endogenous expression of oncogenic Kirsten rat sarcoma virus (KRAS) G12D also promotes global DNA hypomethylation and induces lung tumors through a similar TET3-mediated mechanism. Our findings elucidate one of the unknown mechanisms of global DNA hypomethylation promoted by oncogenic BRAF and KRAS and establish a role for TET3 to promote transformation in cooperation with BRAF and KRAS at an early stage of tumorigenesis.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Science published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.
Neuroblastoma represents the most common extracranial solid tumor in childhood and is associated with a poor prognosis in high-risk cases. Amygdalin, a naturally occurring cyanogenic glycoside, has been reported to exhibit anti-tumor properties in various cancer models; however, its effects on neuroblastoma cells remain insufficiently characterized. The present study was conducted with the objective of investigating the effects of amygdalin on cell proliferation, apoptosis, and invasion in SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells in vitro.The SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells were cultivated under the optimal conditions for their growth. The cytotoxic effect of amygdalin was determined using the CCK8 assay, which is dose- and time-dependent. Total RNA isolation was performed using Trizol. Subsequently, a process of cDNA synthesis was initiated. The real-time PCR method was utilized to ascertain alterations in the expression levels of mRNA molecules associated with apoptosis, namely Bax, Bcl2, caspase-3, caspase-7, caspase-8, caspase-9, caspase-10, NFkB, and invasion-related genes MMP2, MMP9, TIMP1, and TIMP3. Furthermore, alterations in NFkB levels were examined through the utilization of the ELISA method.The IC50 value of amygdalin in SH-SY5Y cells was determined to be 112.7 µM at 24 h. Amygdalin demonstrated a dose-dependent cytotoxic effect on neuroblastoma cells. Furthermore, the study revealed that the drug induced apoptosis through the upregulation of BAX and BID, and the downregulation of BCL-2 and NF-κB. This process led to a reduction in cell proliferation. Furthermore, the study demonstrated an anti-invasive effect through the downregulation of MMP9 and the upregulation of TIMP1 and TIMP3. In addition, a substantial decrease in NF-κB protein concentration was observed.These findings demonstrate that amygdalin exerts anti-proliferative, pro-apoptotic, and anti-invasive effects in SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells in vitro. Amygdalin may represent a promising natural compound for further investigation as a potential therapeutic agent in neuroblastoma.
The dysregulation of proteostasis is a hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD), characterized by the accumulation of misfolded and aggregated proteins. Dysfunction of the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway is a major contributing factor to proteostasis imbalance. The E3 ubiquitin ligase, F-box and WD repeat domain-containing 7 (FBXW7), a key hub factor in AD, is significantly downregulated in AD patients. FBXW7 mediates the proteasomal degradation of tau and regulates the development of tau pathology. However, the effect of FBXW7 on β-amyloid pathology and the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. This study demonstrated that FBXW7α, the dominant FBXW7 isoform, was localized in both the cytoplasm and nucleus of neurons. Aging led to a decline in FBXW7α protein levels in the brain tissues of both wild-type and 5×FAD mice. Notably, the level of FBXW7 in the brain tissue of 5×FAD mice is significantly lower than that in wild-type mice after 6 months of age. FBXW7α interacted with BACE1 via the conserved phosphodegron motif and targeted BACE1 for degradation. FBXW7 knockdown diminished the ubiquitination of BACE1, impaired its proteasome-mediated degradation, and increased the accumulation of BACE1 in Golgi fractions. Additionally, restoration of FBXW7α in the hippocampus improved cognitive function and ameliorated amyloid pathology in 5×FAD mice. Our findings suggest that FBXW7α acts as a key regulator of amyloid pathology, and highlight FBXW7α as a promising potential therapeutic target for AD intervention.© 2026. The Author(s).
Cardiomyocyte-macrophage crosstalk is essential for post-infarction repair, with Galectin-9 (Gal-9) acting as a key immunoregulatory mediator. However, the mechanisms governing its expression and secretion remain unclear. Here, we show that hypoxia stabilizes HIF-1α in cardiomyocytes, driving Gal-9 expression. Pharmacological activation of HIF-1α with deferoxamine enhanced Gal-9 secretion, promoted macrophage polarization toward M2 phenotype, and improved cardiac function after myocardial infarction. These benefits were abrogated by HIF-1α inhibition or Gal-9 deletion, underscoring the HIF-1α-Gal-9 axis as a central regulator of cardiac healing. Mechanistically, Gal-9 secretion occurred via a TMED10-dependent, non-classical vesicular pathway. TMED10 interacted with Gal-9 through a glycan-independent interface to facilitate vesicle loading. Furthermore, Gal-9 underwent S-palmitoylation at Cys137, a modification required for membrane anchoring and secretion. ZDHHC3 was identified as the primary palmitoyl acyltransferase mediating this process; ZDHHC3 knockdown or Cys137 mutation markedly suppressed Gal-9 release. These findings define a novel regulatory network in which HIF-1α upregulates Gal-9, while TMED10 and ZDHHC3 coordinate its palmitoylation-dependent secretion. This pathway links hypoxic signaling to immune modulation, providing new mechanistic insight and therapeutic targets for post-infarction myocardial repair.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42481329
Lipid nanoparticles (LNPs) are highly modular drug nanocarriers that have significantly progressed in the development and application of novel RNA therapeutics. While instrumental in current vaccine and hepatic gene therapy applications, extrahepatic LNP delivery remains a challenging hurdle, severely limiting clinical applications for individualized therapies that require cellular- and tissue-specific enrichment. Novel platform development remains needed to generate targeted LNPs capable of modeling targeted uptake in vitro prior to in vivo applications. Herein, we developed and utilized an antibody-based targeting bispecific-LNP (TbsAb-LNP) platform simultaneously binding LNP polyethylene glycol motifs and desired cell surface markers. By colocalizing TbsAb-LNP complexes with desired cell surface markers, we enable mRNA-LNP accumulation in the desired cell types. We additionally assessed the endosomal efficiency kinetics of TbsAb-LNP complexes generated at various bispecific loading ratios in a Galectin-9 in vitro expression model. Leveraging this facile and modular platform that eliminates the need for complex chemical conjugation approaches, we successfully achieved targeted LNP delivery to xhuCD3-expressing lymphoblasts and xmTfR1-expressing cell lines in vitro as well as xmTfR1-expressing cells in vivo. Enrichment of TbsAb-LNPs to splenic cells demonstrates the potential utility of this platform for clinical vaccine and T-cell delivery applications.© 2026 American Chemical Society.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) remains an aggressive hematologic malignancy with heterogeneous responses to induction chemotherapy. Reliable biomarkers to distinguish patients achieving complete remission (CR) from those with refractory disease are needed to support immunological assessment of treatment response.To evaluate whether serum soluble CD25 (sCD25), galectin-9 (Gal-9), and CXCL9 differ between AML patients in CR, refractory AML patients, and healthy controls, and to assess their discriminative performance for refractory versus CR status.In this single-center case-control study, 155 participants were enrolled (50 healthy controls, 55 AMLCR, 50 AML-Refractory). Serum sCD25, Gal-9, and CXCL9 were quantified by sandwich ELISA. Between-group comparisons used the Kruskal-Wallis test with Dunn post-hoc pairwise contrasts; p-values were adjusted for multiple comparisons using the Benjamini-Hochberg false discovery rate (FDR). Discriminative performance was evaluated by receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis with bootstrap-derived 95% confidence intervals (1000 resamples), and pairwise AUC comparisons were performed using DeLong's test.Serum sCD25 and Gal-9 were significantly elevated in refractory patients compared with CR and controls (adjusted p < 0.001 for both), whereas CXCL9 was highest in the CR group and lowest in refractory patients (adjusted p < 0.001). For discrimination between refractory and CR status, CXCL9 showed the highest single-marker performance (AUC = 0.94, 95% CI: 0.90-0.98), followed by sCD25 (AUC = 0.91, 95% CI: 0.86-0.96) and Gal-9 (AUC = 0.89, 95% CI: 0.83-0.94). A combined logistic regression model incorporating all three markers yielded cross-validated AUC = 0.96 (95% CI: 0.93-0.99); the improvement over CXCL9 alone did not reach statistical significance (DeLong p = 0.31).sCD25, Gal-9, and CXCL9 collectively describe two complementary immunological axes in AML chronic activation/exhaustion (sCD25, Gal-9) and effector-cell trafficking (CXCL9) and robustly discriminate refractory from remission status in this cross-sectional cohort. Prospective longitudinal studies are required before these markers can be recommended for prognostic use or clinical decision-making.The present study identifies a reproducible serum biomarker panel (sCD25, Galectin-9, and CXCL9) that reflects the dynamic balance between immune activation and exhaustion in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). The combined measurement of these markers can distinguish patients in complete remission from those with refractory disease, correlating with treatment response and residual immune dysregulation. These findings highlight a practical, non-invasive immunological tool that could support early detection of relapses, guide therapeutic monitoring, and enhance risk stratification in AML management.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Cartilage oligomeric matrix protein (COMP) influences extracellular matrix remodeling. We investigated its clinical, prognostic, and immunomodulatory significance in colorectal cancer (CRC). COMP was quantified via ELISA in 107 paired CRC and normal tissues. Expression was correlated with clinicopathological features, mutational profiles, microsatellite instability (MSI), tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs), immune checkpoints, and multiplex cytokine networks. For transcriptomic validation, the FieldEffectCrc dataset was used for Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA), and The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) CRC cohort for survival analysis. COMP was significantly upregulated in CRC tissues (p < 0.001) and correlated with advanced T, N, and overall pathological stages (all p < 0.05, tau = 0.18, 0.21, and 0.23, respectively). High COMP expression was linked to restricted immune infiltration (reduced stromal TILs, p < 0.05, tau = -0.23), elevated levels in microsatellite stable (MSS) compared to MSI tumors (p < 0.01), and correlated positively with immune exhaustion markers (T-cell immunoglobulin and mucin-domain containing-3 (TIM-3), galectin-9 (GAL9), sialic acid-binding Ig-like lectin 9 (SIGLEC9)). Transcriptomic data linked high COMP to worse disease-specific and progression-free survival, and enrichment in pro-tumorigenic pathways (epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition, angiogenesis, IL-6 signaling). COMP upregulation defines an immunosuppressive microenvironment in CRC, particularly in MSS tumors. It represents an important prognostic biomarker and potential therapeutic target for overcoming immunotherapy resistance.
Human immunodeficiency virus and tuberculosis (HIV/TB) coinfection remains a major global health challenge. Immune dysregulation in HIV complicates TB diagnosis. The type of immune response mounted in tuberculosis is a key determinant in deciding the outcome of the infection. Hence, estimating immune markers is critical for developing diagnostic, monitoring and treatment approaches. A study was conducted to evaluate the diagnostic potential of host-based biomarkers in individuals with HIV/TB coinfection in comparison to HIV monoinfection receiving antiretroviral therapy. Host-based biomarkers were quantified using commercially available kits. Receiver operated curve (ROC) analysis was conducted to determine diagnostic performance. Routine investigations showed significantly raised ratios of neutrophils, monocytes, and platelets-to-lymphocytes and alkaline phosphatase levels in HIV/TB coinfection (AUC values > 0.76). Plasma galectin-9 and osteopontin levels had an AUC > 0.8. IFN-γ, TNF-α and IL-12 levels were also significantly raised (AUC values > 0.95) while levels of GM-CSF and IL-6 were significantly low in HIV TB coinfection. The ROC analysis revealed the highest diagnostic accuracy of IL-12, indicating its potential as an adjunct immunological biomarker in identifying TB among HIV-infected individuals. However, a large-scale prospective study is required to confirm the findings and to understand their role in predicting the development of tuberculosis disease in people living with HIV.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42449718 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42415519 is a review article
Kidney transplantation is the optimal treatment for end-stage renal disease. Soluble immune checkpoints (sICs) may serve as key immune regulators and potential biomarkers in transplantation. In this study, frozen serum samples from kidney transplant recipients (n = 30) at pre-transplantation (day 0) and post-transplantation (days 3 and 7), along with samples from healthy controls (HCs, n = 15), were analysed for sICs (sCD25, s4-1BB, sCD86, active TGF-β1, sCTLA-4, sPD-L1, sPD-1, sTIM-3, sLAG-3, galectin-9, sCD27, and sPD-L2) using a flow cytometry-based multiplex bead assay. To assess alloimmune sensitisation, anti-HLA panel-reactive antibody (PRA) levels were measured in transplant recipients. Kidney function was evaluated retrospectively by serum creatinine and estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR, CKD-EPI). All data were analysed to investigate their associations with kidney function. Pre-transplant patients had significantly higher serum levels of sCD25, sPD-L1, sTIM-3, Galectin-9, sCD27, and sPD-L2 compared to HCs. Post-transplant, sCD25, sPD-L1, sTIM-3, Galectin-9, sCD27, sPD-L2, and sCD86 showed significant temporal changes. Conversely, s4-1BB, sLAG-3, sCTLA-4, active TGF-β1, and sPD-1 levels showed no temporal changes and were comparable to HCs. Notably, PRA-positive patients exhibited higher sTIM-3 levels. Correlation and subgroup analyses based on eGFR revealed that higher levels sLAG-3 and sCTLA-4 levels were associated with better kidney function, while higher sCD25 and Galectin-9 levels were linked with poorer function. These findings suggest a link between sICs and renal function in the early post-transplant period, highlighting their potential as biomarkers and therapeutic targets. Future studies with larger cohorts are needed to evaluate their clinical utility in improving transplant outcomes.© 2026 The Author(s). Immunology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565580 is a review article
Metastatic disease remains the primary cause of cancer mortality, yet the identification of robust therapeutic targets is hampered by tumor heterogeneity and microenvironmental complexity. A key challenge lies in identifying epigenetic regulators that can simultaneously inhibit tumor progression and harness immunity. Here, we leverage single-cell transcriptomics from 120 liver cancer patients to identify E1A-like inhibitor of differentiation 1 (EID1) as the sole histone acetylation regulator upregulated in both tumor cells and effector lymphocytes within metastatic sites. Systemic Eid1 deletion markedly suppresses lung metastasis in melanoma, liver cancer, and breast cancer models. This protection is mediated dominantly by natural killer (NK) cells and type I/II interferons (IFNs), as evidenced by antibody-based cell depletion and cytokine neutralization. Eid1-deficient NK cells exhibit a hyperactivated state with robust proliferation, and their adoptive transfer confers superior metastatic suppression. Notably, Eid1 deficiency augments the accumulation of NK cells and dendritic cells (DCs) in lung metastases and induces a close spatial and transcriptional DC-NK interplay for metastatic defense. Mechanistically, loss of Eid1 upregulates formyl peptide receptor 1 (FPR1) and its ligand annexin A1 (ANXA1) on DCs and NK cells, enabling a FPR1-dependent DC-NK crosstalk that strengthens type I and II IFN responses against tumor dissemination. Conditional knockout demonstrated that intratumoral accumulation of NK cells and DCs is determined by cell-intrinsic Eid1. Critically, targeted Eid1 silencing delivered by nanoparticles significantly enhanced Fpr1 expression and NK activation, eventually suppressing tumor dissemination. Collectively, our study uncovers a previously unrecognized role of EID1 in promoting cancer metastasis by dampening the DC-NK joint immunosurveillance and establishes the therapeutic potential of EID1 inhibition in NK cell transfer and siRNA-based strategies.© 2026. Science China Press.
Annexin A1 (AnxA1) regulates inflammation and neovascularization in ocular diseases, influencing growth factor signaling and cytoskeletal dynamics. Accordingly, this study aimed to investigate the role of the AnxA1 protein in diabetic retinopathy (DR) and to understand how its absence affects inflammation and vascular dysfunction in DR.DR model was induced 12 weeks after streptozotocin injection in wild-type (AnxA1+/+) and AnxA1 knockout (AnxA1-/-) mice. We evaluated the consequences of AnxA1 deficiency on retinal morphology, Müller cell activation, inflammation, and angiogenesis associated with DR. We also performed an in silico analysis in wild-type animals with DR induced for 6 weeks and in a dataset of patients with DR. Furthermore, a choroidal neovascularization model was used to evaluate the role of AnxA1 in angiogenesis signaling.AnxA1 deficiency exacerbated selective systemic inflammatory alterations and promoted retinal neurodegeneration associated with DR. AnxA1-/- diabetic animals exhibited increased circulating IL-6, IL-17, chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 1, and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 levels, retinal monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 and IL-4 upregulation, dysregulated MAPK/STAT3 signaling, and altered gliosis responses. In addition, AnxA1 deficiency was associated with a proangiogenic signaling profile characterized by increased retinal levels of EGF, VEGF-A, and endothelin-1 in DR, whereas the upregulation of VEGF-C was predominantly observed in the choroidal neovascularization model.Endogenous AnxA1 modulates inflammatory-glial and proangiogenic signaling pathways in the diabetic retina. Its deficiency is associated with selective inflammatory dysregulation and enhanced angiogenesis-related signaling during DR progression.
Advances in single-cell technologies have provided detailed insight into cellular heterogeneity within tumor microenvironments. However, the regulatory mechanisms driving macrophage-mediated immune suppression in thyroid cancer remain incompletely understood.We applied integrated single-cell multi-omics approaches to tumor samples from patients and murine thyroid cancer models, including single-cell RNA sequencing, single-cell ATAC sequencing, mass cytometry, spatial/histological validation, and in vitro and in vivo functional assays.We identified a prominent enrichment of TREM2+ tumor-associated macrophages within the thyroid cancer immune microenvironment. These macrophages displayed an immunosuppressive transcriptional and metabolic profile and promoted immune evasion through activation of the AHR-IDO1-kynurenine signaling axis, leading to impaired CD8+ T-cell function. Pharmacological inhibition of AHR and IDO1 reversed immune suppression and reduced tumor burden in experimental models.These findings reveal a TREM2+ macrophage-driven immunometabolic mechanism in thyroid cancer and suggest that targeting the AHR-IDO1-kynurenine pathway may provide a potential strategy for improving antitumor immunity.Copyright © 2026 Le, Huang, Jiang, Lv and Chen.
Tumor protein p53 (TP53) alterations are frequently reported in canine cancers but remain incompletely characterized due to differences in reference genomes and sequencing cost.To evaluate a cost-efficient primer-walking approach for TP53 variant screening in dogs with spontaneous tumors.Tumor tissue (n = 10) or blood (n = 16) was collected from 26 dogs with suspected neoplasia. Interpretable TP53 sequences spanning introns and exons 2-11, excluding long intron 1 and non-protein-coding exon 1, were obtained by primer-walking polymerase chain reaction and Sanger sequencing. Bidirectional reads were compared with the Ensembl ROS_Cfam_1.0 v114 reference sequence.TP53 gene sequence variations were observed in 18/26 sequenced tumor cases, including one exonic frameshift insertion and 17 noncoding variants: 13 intronic variants and 4 variants in the 5' untranslated region. Recurrent substitutions and deletions occurred in the intron 8-10 region. Variants were detected in lymphomas and carcinomas, including cases from several small breeds, but no significant association with tumor type or breed was demonstrated.Primer-walking Sanger sequencing can screen TP53 regions beyond coding exons in canine tumor samples. Matched tumor-normal sequencing is needed to determine somatic versus germline origin and to evaluate noncoding TP53 variants as potential biomarkers or drivers.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by The Korean Society of Veterinary Science.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42551547 is a review article
We report a case of pulmonary artery intimal sarcoma successfully treated with surgical resection followed by weekly paclitaxel. The tumor harbored a tumor protein p53 mutation, amplifications of epidermal growth factor receptor, platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha, and KIT, and focal positivity for mouse double minute 2.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical Case Reports published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42551575 is a review article
The outcome of a Plasmodium infection depends on the timely regulation of the robust pro-inflammatory response required to eliminate the parasite, but this response can cause tissue damage if not properly controlled. Interleukin-10 (IL-10) is an important regulatory cytokine that prevents immunopathology during many Plasmodium infections; however, this protection comes at the expense of less effective parasite control. This is illustrated by infection with blood-stage Plasmodium yoelii, in which mice exhibit a lower parasite load in the absence of IL-10. However, the immune components that limit parasite burden in the absence of IL-10 remain poorly understood. Abolishing IL-10 led to a predicted increase in TH1 polarization and a higher production of IL-12 and interferon-γ (IFN-γ). However, the enhanced production of these cytokines did not explain the improved parasite control seen in Il10-/- mice. Loss of IL-10 signaling reduced the accumulation of germinal center B cells and plasmablasts in the spleen, indicating a role for IL-10 in supporting the humoral response. However, although B cells are essential for survival, they do not play a critical role in early parasite control in IL-10-deficient mice. Moreover, Il10-/- mice lacking IFN-γ and B cells can limit early parasite expansion, suggesting that IL-10 suppresses host-protective pathways beyond the functions of B cells and IFN-γ in parasite control.
This study sought to elucidate the regulatory mechanisms of exosomes derived from gingival mesenchymal stem cells (GMSC-Exo) in the context of inflammation associated with oral lichen planus (OLP).An in vitro OLP inflammatory model was established by stimulating the Human Adult Keratinocyte Transformed Cell Line (Hacat) with lipopolysaccharide (LPS). The cellular uptake of GMSC-Exo was detected by immunofluorescence. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was employed to assess the levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and interleukin-10 (IL-10). Cell viability and apoptosis were measured by Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) assay and flow cytometry, respectively. The mRNA levels of Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) were determined via reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), and the protein expression levels of TLR4, phosphorylated nuclear factor kappa B subunit p65 (p-P65), P65, phosphorylated IκBα (p-IκBα), and IκBα were further validated by Western Blot.LPS stimulation significantly increased the secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-6), decreased the production of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10, and promoted Hacat cell apoptosis while impairing cell viability. Notably, administration of GMSC-Exo effectively alleviated these LPS-induced effects. Mechanistically, GMSC-Exo suppressed LPS-induced TLR4 overexpression and blocked downstream nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) signaling activation, as evidenced by decreased phosphorylation of IκBα and P65.GMSC-Exo alleviates LPS-induced inflammation and apoptosis in Hacat cells by downregulating the TLR4/NF-κB signaling pathway. Our findings offer novel insights and potential therapeutic strategies for treating OLP.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The efficacy of cell-based therapeutics is often compromised by host immune recognition of implanted cells and biomaterials, resulting in fibrotic encapsulation and loss of function. Here, we address this challenge with an immunomodulatory cell-based therapy, in which alginate-encapsulated retinal pigment epithelial cells continuously secrete cytokines to locally modulate the implant microenvironment. In a healthy rodent model, the localized production of interleukin-10 (IL-10) or IL-12 from encapsulated cytokine-producing cells prevented foreign body response to alginate capsules. Mechanistically, treatment was associated with reduced expression of profibrotic genes and immune shifts consistent with macrophage and T cell regulation, supporting a cytokine-mediated mitigation of foreign body response. In a diabetic murine model (streptozotocin-induced C57BL/6J), coimplantation of human islets with IL-10-producing cells attenuated pericapsular fibrosis, preserved islet viability, and restored normoglycemia for up to 100 days (4.76 times longer than islets alone). Notably, IL-10-producing cells were also effective in enabling the durability and function of encapsulated cells in a healthy nonhuman primate, showing translational feasibility. Collectively, these findings suggest that localized cytokine delivery can reduce fibrotic encapsulation and support durable graft function, offering a path to lessen reliance on systemic immunosuppression in islets transplantation and other implantable biomaterial therapies.
Skull defect reconstruction remains clinically challenging because current artificial implants lack bioactivity and produce radiological artifacts, whereas autologous bone grafts suffer from unpredictable resorption and infection. Here, we developed a multifunctional composite integrating antigen-extracted xenogeneic scaffold, IL-10-loaded mesoporous polydopamine nanoparticles (MPDA@IL-10), and autologous bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs). The composite establishes a temporally phased immunoregulatory axis: nanoparticle-delivered exogenous IL-10 compresses the early inflammatory window, and BMSCs then secrete endogenous anti-inflammatory factors that prevent scaffold resorption and maintain a pro-regenerative milieu. Beyond immunomodulation, IL-10 acts as a lineage-determining cue, activating PI3K-Akt/Wnt signaling to drive BMSC osteogenic commitment and suppress adipogenic drift at the early differentiation stage. In a canine critical-sized skull defect model, this strategy markedly enhanced radiographic and histological regeneration. By uniting temporal immune modulation with stem cell fate programming, this approach offers a translatable route to skull repair.? 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Mutations in the breast cancer susceptibility gene 2 (BRCA2) are well known to increase the risk of breast and ovarian cancers. Emerging evidence indicates that BRCA2 mutation carriers exhibit increased vascular disorder and may develop endothelial dysfunction, a key mechanism underlying hypertension. Angiotensin II (Ang II)﻿, a central effector of the renin-angiotensin system, is a key regulator of blood pressure and a major driver of hypertension, promoting endothelial injury through oxidative stress, inflammation, and impaired nitric oxide (NO) bioavailability. However, the role of endothelial BRCA2 in Ang II-induced endothelial dysfunction remains unknown.BRCA2 was silenced in cultured endothelial cells and following Ang II treatment, ROS generation, DNA damage, apoptosis, inflammation, NO production, migration, angiogenic capacity, Ang II receptors and related signaling pathways were assessed.BRCA2 deficiency exacerbated Ang II-induced increases in ROS, DNA damage, and apoptosis, along with impaired functional capacity, including reduced migration and angiogenesis. NO production was suppressed, accompanied by increased micronuclei formation and enhanced c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) activation. In addition, both BRCA2 loss and Ang II treatment upregulated the Ang II receptor AT1R. Pharmacological inhibition of AT1R attenuated Ang II-induced increases in DNA damage and apoptosis in BRCA2-deficient endothelial cells.These findings provide the first pharmacogenomic evidence that BRCA2 deficiency sensitizes endothelial cells to Ang II-induced dysfunction, suggesting that BRCA2 mutation carriers may be at increased risk for hypertension-associated cardiovascular complications.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Clinical chorioamnionitis is a major contributor to preterm birth and neonatal morbidity. Diagnosis in women with intact membranes is challenging, particularly in the subclinical phase where maternal signs are subtle and conventional serum markers are limited in predictive value.To evaluate the diagnostic performance of selected novel amniotic fluid biomarkers (interleukin-6, interleukin-10, tumour necrosis factor-ɑ, matrix metalloproteinase-8), and conventional amniotic and serum biomarkers in predicting delivery for clinical chorioamnionitis within 14 days of amniocentesis in women with suspected subclinical infection and intact membranes.A prospective cohort study was conducted at a single Australian tertiary hospital. Thirty-two women with singleton pregnancies and suspected subclinical chorioamnionitis underwent amniocentesis. Amniotic fluid and serum were analysed for selected biomarkers. The primary outcome was delivery for clinical chorioamnionitis within 14 days of amniocentesis. ROC curves were constructed to assess biomarker performance.Delivery for clinical chorioamnionitis occurred in 11 of 31 evaluable cases (35%). Matrix metalloproteinase-8, lactate dehydrogenase, and glucose were the strongest predictors (area under the curve (AUC) of 0.93 (95% CI 0.85-1.0), 0.93 (95% CI 0.85-1.0), and 0.92 (95% CI 0.8-1.0) respectively). Amniotic fluid biomarkers outperformed serum markers (C-reactive protein AUC 0.70 (95% CI 0.49-0.91) and white cell count AUC 0.67 (95% CI 0.46-0.86)). Novel amniotic fluid biomarkers did not demonstrate superior diagnostic performance over conventional amniotic fluid biomarkers including lactate dehydrogenase and glucose.Amniotic fluid biomarkers show promise in identifying women with subclinical chorioamnionitis. These findings support further validation of scalable biomarker-based testing to guide early intervention and improve perinatal outcomes.© 2026 Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists.
Penile injury induces rapid structural disruption of the corpus cavernosum, ultimately culminating in erectile dysfunction (ED). Owing to the inherently limited regenerative capacity of injured tissue, current therapies fail to restore both structure and function. To address this unmet clinical need, we employed 3D printing technology to fabricate a hydrogel-based biomimetic penile corpus cavernosum with a sinusoidal architecture. It can simulate the penile erection process under fluid pressure in vitro. This construct was functionally modified by seeding with porcine umbilical cord-derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), and its therapeutic potential was systematically evaluated in a preclinical porcine model of corpus cavernosum defects. The treatment brought about the relative improvement in reproductive performance compared with defect control groups. Mechanistically, MSCs accelerate hydrogel degradation to support tissue integration and facilitate nearly complete structural regeneration of damaged cavernous sinuses. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) revealed a multifaceted regulatory network in which MSCs enhance the terminal differentiation of endothelial cells (ECs) to rebuild functional vascular networks, mitigate cluster of differentiation 4-positive (CD4+) T-cell-induced endothelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EndMT) by reducing transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β) secretion, and reprogram the immune microenvironment, specifically by activating anti-inflammatory interleukin-10 (IL-10) signaling in M1 macrophages and downregulating prorejection pathways in M2 macrophages. Collectively, these effects inhibit excessive inflammation and attenuate graft rejection. These findings not only deepen our mechanistic understanding of MSC-based interventions for ED secondary to penile injury but also establish a novel, more efficient therapeutic strategy for penile reconstruction to restore the reproductive capability of males.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) are widely used in psychiatry for mood and anxiety disorders but remain underexplored in chronic gastrointestinal conditions such as inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and disorders of gut-brain interaction (DGBI). This review synthesizes emerging evidence on their potential therapeutic role, focusing on shared neurobiological and immunometabolic mechanisms within the bidirectional microbiota-gut-brain axis. We reviewed preclinical and clinical studies investigating SSRIs and SNRIs in IBD and DGBI, emphasizing neuroimmune, enteric, and microbial pathways relevant to disease modulation. SSRIs and SNRIs inhibit serotonin (SERT) and norepinephrine (NET) transporters, increasing central 5-HT and NE signaling across corticolimbic and autonomic networks. These effects enhance neuroplasticity and BDNF activity, reduce microglial activation and proinflammatory cytokines, and partially normalize hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis reactivity. Peripherally, epithelial, and enteric SERT blockade elevates luminal 5-HT, activating 5-HT<inf>3</inf> and 5-HT<inf>4</inf> receptors that promote motility, secretion, and sensory modulation. Both classes also enhance vagal antiinflammatory tone and tighten epithelial barrier integrity by suppressing nuclear factor kappa (NF-κB) signaling and increasing interleukin 10 (IL-10). Through integrated central, enteric, and immune actions, SSRIs and SNRIs can influence mood, pain perception, gut motility, and mucosal inflammation, key determinants of symptom burden in IBD and DGBI. SSRIs and SNRIs hold promise as multimodal modulators of the microbiota-gut-brain axis, bridging psychiatric and gastroenterological care. However, mechanistic preclinical studies and rigorously designed, adequately powered randomized trials are needed to define causal pathways, optimal dosing, and patient stratification strategies.
Acute pancreatitis (AP) is one of the leading gastrointestinal conditions requiring hospitalization. Current management relies mainly on supportive care, and no specific pharmacological treatment is available. Interleukin-10 (IL-10) is a well-studied cytokine with potent anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory effects. Previous studies have demonstrated the beneficial roles of both endogenous and exogenous IL-10 in mitigating pancreatic and systemic injury during AP. However, clinical translation of IL-10 recombinant protein therapy has been limited. Here, we report the development of a sulfonium lipid nanoparticle (sLNP) system for pancreas-specific IL-10 mRNA delivery in AP. Through formulation optimization, we identified DHSEA-based sLNPs with excellent pancreas-specific mRNA delivery efficiency, high specificity, and good biocompatibility. Administration of IL-10 mRNA/DHSEA during the development and progression of cerulein-induced AP significantly reduced pro-inflammatory cytokine expression, serum amylase levels, and pancreatic tissue damage.
Doxorubicin (DOX) is a potent anthracycline chemotherapeutic agent, but its clinical use is limited by cumulative cardiotoxicity. Exercise, particularly high-intensity interval training (HIIT), has emerged as an effective non-pharmacological strategy to counteract chemotherapy-induced cardiac injury. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the cardioprotective effects of HIIT remain unclear. This study aimed to determine whether HIIT attenuates DOX-induced cardiotoxicity via activation of the fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21)/sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) signalling pathway in rats. Thirty-three male Wistar rats (200-250 g) were randomly assigned to three groups (n = 11 each): control (CONTROL), DOX-treated sedentary (DOX-Sed) and DOX-treated HIIT (DOX-HIIT). DOX-induced cardiotoxicity was induced by intraperitoneal DOX injections (12 mg/kg cumulative dose over 12 days). After confirmation of cardiac dysfunction by echocardiography, the DOX-HIIT group completed an 8 week treadmill HIIT programme (three sessions per week, five intervals of 4 min at 85%-90% of maximal O2 uptake separated by 2 min at 50%-60% of maximal O2 uptake). Cardiac function, oxidative stress markers, inflammatory cytokines, plasma levels of FGF21 and protein expression of FGFR1 and the SIRT1/AMPK/Nrf2 pathway were assessed. HIIT improved survival (81.8% vs. 63.6% in DOX-Sed), prevented weight loss and ameliorated left ventricular systolic dysfunction, as evidenced by increased ejection fraction and fractional shortening (P < 0.05). HIIT reduced cardiac interleukin-6, tumor necrosis factor-α, interleukin-1β and malondialdehyde levels while elevating antioxidant enzyme activities. Mechanistically, HIIT increased plasma FGF21 and phosphorylated FGFR1 and upregulated SIRT1, LKB1 and phosphorylated AMPK, leading to activation of the Nrf2/HO-1 antioxidant pathway. Therefore, HIIT-induced FGF21 has a potential therapeutic effect on cardiac function in DOX-induced cardiotoxicity through activation of the FGF21/SIRT1/LKB1/AMPK/Nrf2/HO-1 signalling pathway.© 2026 The Author(s). Experimental Physiology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of The Physiological Society.
The use of cannabinoid has been implicated in the treatment of various skin disorders with obscure mechanism of action. This study aimed to investigate the physiological roles of GPR55 in regenerating skin wounds and protecting keratinocyte apoptosis induced by UVB radiation. Here, we found that O1602, a GPR55 agonist, accelerated wound healing in keratinocyte-like HaCaT cells, and this effect was suppressed by pretreatment with inhibitors of protein kinase A (PKA), AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), sirtuin-1 (SIRT-1), and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK). Although O1602 treatment promoted keratinocyte proliferation in HaCaT cell line but its proliferative effect did not contribute to enhancing wound healing. Indeed, O1602 upregulated expression of MMP-9, suggesting the stimulation of cell migration. O1602 treatment protected against UVB-induced keratinocyte apoptosis, and this effect was abolished by pretreatment with inhibitors belonging to the same class as that which suppressed the wound-healing response. Furthermore, western blotting analyses revealed that O1602 treatment induced AMPK phosphorylation, and this effect was inhibited by pretreatment of PKA inhibitor. Moreover, O1602 promoted ERK phosphorylation, and this effect was aborted by pretreatment of either AMPK inhibitor or SIRT-1 inhibitor. Enzymatic activation of SIRT-1 induced by O1602 was absent in AMPK inhibitor-pretreated HaCaT cells. Altogether, GPR55 mediates keratinocyte regeneration and exhibits its protective effect against UVB exposure via PKA/AMPK/SIRT-1/ERK-dependent mechanism.
Chronic morphine consumption induces oxidative stress and renal dysfunction, effects that may be exacerbated by aging-related declines in adaptive capacity. Regular endurance exercise enhances antioxidant defense and mitochondrial regulation; however, its ability to counteract morphine-induced renal alterations across different stages of aging remains insufficiently characterized.Male wistar rats, categorized as young and aged based on chronological age and body weight, were allocated to control, morphine, exercise, and morphine plus exercise groups within each age category. Morphine was administered via drinking water for four weeks. Concurrently, animals in the exercise groups performed moderate-intensity continuous training on a treadmill. At study completion, serum and renal tissues were collected for assessment of oxidative stress markers (MDA, TAC, SOD), MPO, renal function indices (BUN and creatinine), and renal expression of sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) and Klotho, Mitochondrial compatibility markers (Citrate synthase activity and TFAM).Chronic morphine exposure was associated with increased oxidative stress markers and decreased antioxidant capacity in kidney tissue, and simultaneously increased serum urea and creatinine levels in young and old mice, indicating impaired renal functional status. Chronic morphine administration also decreased SIRT1 and Klotho levels in young and old animals. In contrast, 4 weeks of endurance training improved markers of mitochondrial adaptation, oxidative balance, and renal function, which were associated with increased expression of SIRT1 and Klotho in kidney tissue. These changes could indicate a potential link between exercise training and molecular pathways involved in the regulation of oxidative stress and renal homeostasis. However, these findings suggest an association, and causal or mechanistic interpretations will require further investigation in future studies.These findings indicate that endurance training is associated with more favorable renal biomarker profiles in the context of chronic opioid exposure.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Effective psychotherapeutic interventions for post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) rely on fear extinction to suppress maladaptive fear responses, yet their long-term efficacy is limited by high relapse rates. Notably, extinction involves not only fear inhibition but also affective engagement. However, whether and how internal affective components contribute to extinction retrieval and long-term persistence remain unclear. Here, we demonstrate that positive affective experiences arising during extinction govern the long-term persistence of extinction and resistance to spontaneous recovery. We identify a subpopulation of medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) extinction neurons projecting to supramammillary nucleus glutamatergic (SuMGlu) neurons that encodes positive affective experience during extinction and selectively governs long-term extinction persistence. This ensemble is spatially, anatomically, and transcriptionally distinct from mPFC extinction neurons projecting to zona incerta somatostatin-expressing (ZISST) neurons, which primarily support extinction retrieval. Transcriptomic profiling reveals enrichment of sirtuin 1 (Sirt1) within SuM-projecting extinction ensembles, and bidirectional manipulation of SIRT1 alters extinction relapse vulnerability in a PTSD mouse model. These findings provide a cortical-hypothalamic framework incorporating molecular features that governs the long-term persistence of fear extinction and resistance to relapse through positive affective processes.
Nicotinamide mononucleotide (NMN), a key precursor of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+), has recently emerged as a promising therapeutic candidate for age-related diseases. This review critically evaluates preclinical evidence regarding the effects of NMN on ovarian health, with particular emphasis on its potential to attenuate ovarian aging, improve follicular reserve, and restore endocrine function. Animal studies have demonstrated that NMN supplementation enhances mitochondrial function, reduces oxidative stress, and modulates sirtuin activity in ovarian tissue. These effects contributed to improved oocyte quality, delayed ovarian senescence, and prolonged reproductive lifespan. In models of chemotherapy-induced ovarian insufficiency and age-related ovarian decline, NMN administration was associated with increased folliculogenesis and normalization of hormonal profiles. Furthermore, the anti-inflammatory and anti-apoptotic properties of NMN suggest potential therapeutic applications in conditions such as premature ovarian insufficiency and polycystic ovary syndrome. Despite encouraging findings in rodent models, clinical translation remains limited. This review summarizes the key molecular pathways influenced by NMN, including the NAD+/sirtuin-1 (SIRT1) axis, and highlights important gaps in current knowledge. Collectively, the available evidence underscores the therapeutic potential of NMN while emphasizing the need for well-designed human studies to establish its efficacy and safety in reproductive medicine.
SIRT1 (sirtuin-1) regulates various cellular and metabolic processes in the vasculature. SIRT1 is an NAD+-dependent deacetylase that deacetylates transcription factors that control vascular inflammation and remodeling. Given that pathways regulated by SIRT1 are implicated in the pathophysiology of intracranial aneurysms, we hypothesized that activation and overexpression of SIRT1 prevent aneurysm rupture by suppressing vascular inflammation.Intracranial aneurysms were induced in mice by systemic hypertension and a single intracisternal injection of elastase. We analyzed the expression of SIRT1 in human and mouse aneurysms. We investigated the role of SIRT1 in aneurysm rupture using genetic overexpression of SIRT1 and cell-specific deletion in the endothelial, vascular smooth muscle, and myeloid lineages. We administered a SIRT1 activator and a SIRT1 inhibitor to assess the rupture rate and mRNA expression in cerebral arteries.SIRT1 expression was significantly lower in intracranial aneurysm tissues than in control cerebral arteries in mice, with a similar trend in human aneurysms. Global overexpression of SIRT1 significantly decreased the rupture rate. Endothelial SIRT1 deletion increased the rupture rate, with no effect observed in other cell types. Inhibition of SIRT1 increased the rupture rate, whereas SIRT1 activation reduced the rupture rate and suppressed mRNA expression of proinflammatory cytokines in cerebral arteries.Our findings support a protective role of SIRT1 against intracranial aneurysm rupture in mice, with endothelial SIRT1 playing an important role in aneurysm stabilization. Pharmacological SIRT1 activation reduced aneurysm rupture and was associated with reduced vascular inflammation, providing a preclinical rationale for further investigation of SIRT1-related pathways.
Women with gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) are more likely to develop cardiovascular disease (CVD) within 3 to 10 years following pregnancy. Despite a return to normoglycemia shortly after gestation, GDM mothers still possess an increased risk of future CVD. In this study, we use a novel preclinical hormonal model of GDM to examine the mechanisms underlying future vascular and cardiac dysfunction in mothers with a history of GDM. We treated 16-week-old pregnant C57BL/6J mice with the insulin receptor antagonist (S961; 30nmol/kg, s.c.) from gestational day (GD) 7 (second trimester of pregnancy) until delivery to induce GDM. GDM mice developed systolic and diastolic dysfunction, arterial stiffness, hypertension, increased cardiac mass, and exercise intolerance at 10 weeks postpartum compared with saline-treated pregnant or S961-treated virgin mice. We also observed decreased plasma nitric oxide (NO) and increased endothelin-1 (ET-1) in GDM. The aorta of S961-induced GDM mice had increased pulse wave velocity, impaired vascular relaxation, remodeling, elevated reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and adhesion molecules, increased ET-1 type A receptor expression, and reduced sirtuin-1 (SIRT-1) expression. The left ventricle of S961-induced GDM mice exhibited fibrosis, thickness, and increased ROS production. Additionally, alterations in cardiac kinase activity in the nitric oxide/cyclic guanosine monophosphate/protein kinase G (NO/cGMP/PRKG) and AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) alpha pathways were observed at 10 weeks postpartum using novel Pamgene kinome technology. Thus, endothelin activation, suppressed NO/cGMP/PRKG signaling, impaired AMPK, and altered SIRT1 may be responsible for the development of vascular stiffness and cardiac dysfunction in mothers with a history of GDM.
Mammarenaviruses (MaAv) cause persistent infections in diverse rodent reservoirs worldwide and several are zoonotic pathogens with an important public-health burden in their endemic regions. Moreover, the globally distributed MaAv lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) is an underrecognized pathogen of clinical significance in congenital infections and immunocompromised individuals. The lack of FDA-approved vaccines or antivirals for MaAv infections underscores the urgent need for novel anti-MaAv therapeutic strategies. Neutral sphingomyelinase 2 (nSMase2) was recently identified as a host factor contributing to LCMV multiplication, and its inhibitor cambinol exhibits dose-dependent antiviral activity against LCMV but the underlying mechanisms remain undefined. Here, we show that cambinol disrupts multiple stages of the LCMV life cycle. Cambinol inhibits the pH-dependent fusion event mediated by MaAv glycoprotein, a step required for completion of virus cell entry. It also reduces viral ribonucleoprotein (vRNP)-directed genome replication and transcription and impairs the budding activity of the virus matrix Z protein. Cambinol also inhibits sirtuins 1 and 2 (Sirt-1 and Sirt-2), two NAD + -dependent protein deacetylases with pleiotropic roles in cellular metabolism and stress responses, raising the question of whether cambinol anti-LCMV activity reflects nSMase2 inhibition alone or also involves sirtuin-dependent pathways. LCMV multiplication was significantly reduced in SIRT1, but not SIRT2, knockout (KO) cells, uncovering a pro-viral role for Sirt-1 in the LCMV life cycle. Consistent with this finding, LCMV vRNP activity and production of infectious progeny were reduced in SIRT1 KO cells. These findings identify Sirt-1 as a host factor required for optimal LCMV multiplication. Sirt-1 inhibitors are in clinical development for oncological and neurological indications, raising the possibility of repurposing Sirt-1 inhibitors as host-directed antivirals (HDAs) against human pathogenic MaAv.
Systemic sclerosis is an autoimmune fibrotic skin disease characterised by immune activation and fibrosis. Fibroblasts are at the core of this fibrotic process, differentiating into effector myofibroblasts; however, the drivers of this process remain obscure. Recently, metabolic changes in cells in fibrotic diseases have been uncovered, with changes in the TCA cycle and glycolysis being observed.The objective of this work was to elucidate the role of the glycolytic enzyme pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2) in systemic sclerosis.Serum from early diffuse systemic sclerosis (SSc) patients and healthy controls (HC) was collected for PKM2 analysis by ELISA. Fibroblasts were isolated from HC and SSc biopsies and treated with transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) to assess PKM2 expression. PKM2 was pharmacologically modulated, and collagen and Extracellular Matrix (ECM) regulators were evaluated. Metabolic activity was assessed using Seahorse assays, and lactate transport was chemically inhibited. Chromatin immunoprecipitation was performed using a histone lactylation-specific or isotype antibody, and lactate or acetate supplementation experiments were conducted.We found significantly elevated circulating and fibroblast PKM2 in SSc patients. Fibroblast PKM2 could be induced in healthy fibroblasts by TGF-β1 exposure. Furthermore, PKM2 drives a metabolic shift to glycolysis that can be blocked by forced tetramerisation of PKM2 from its dimeric form; this resulted in reduced ECM and matrix regulators. Mechanistically, PKM2-mediated glycolysis results in elevated lactate, which drives collagen via epigenetic regulation by histone H3K18 lactylation. Blockade of PKM2 dimerisation reduced Histone H3 at Lysine 18 (H3K18) lactylation at the collagen promoter, which could be restored with lactate but not acetate. We further demonstrated that lactate-induced collagen is partially mediated by HIF-1α.PKM2 drives activation of fibroblasts in SSc via metabolic changes such as glycolysis. Taking advantage of PKM2 tetramerisation or blockade of lactate generation could be a possible therapeutic option in a disease with few treatment options.Copyright © 2026 Steadman and O’Reilly.
Growth factor release from dentin and subsequent cellular response are critical in endodontic regeneration procedures. This study evaluated the effects of Nd: YAG (1064 nm) and diode lasers (980 nm, 635 nm) at varying energy densities on dentin morphology, Transforming Growth Factor-beta 1 release, and the biological response of stem cells to promote pulp regeneration in immature permanent teeth. Dentin blocks from extracted human teeth were treated with 1.5% NaOCl followed by pulsed Nd: YAG or continuous-wave diode lasers (average energy densities of 24, 60 and 120 J/cm2). Controls included 1.5% NaOCl/17% EDTA group and untreated samples. TGF-β1 release was quantified via ELISA. Cell viability (24-72 h), alkaline phosphatase activity (7 days), and surface morphology were assessed. One-way or two-way ANOVA with post-hoc tests were applied (p < 0.05). SEM analysis revealed that all lasers partially disrupted the smear layer and increased surface roughness, while SHED cells on laser-treated dentin showed flattened morphology with extended filopodia, indicating favorable cell-surface interactions. All laser groups significantly increased TGF-β1 release compared to the negative control (p < 0.05), with Nd: YAG at 60 J/cm² producing the highest levels, exceeding even the positive control (p < 0.05). Laser-treated specimens were non-cytotoxic and significantly increased ALP activity compared to the negative control (p < 0.001), with Nd: YAG at 60 J/cm² showing the highest activity, statistically higher than the NaOCl/EDTA positive control (p < 0.05). Low to moderate energy Nd: YAG and diode lasers enhanced TGF-β1 release and ALP activity without cytotoxicity, matching or exceeding EDTA treatment. Thus, laser-assisted dentin conditioning is a promising adjunctive strategy for regenerative endodontics.© 2026. The Author(s).
Naturally occurring isoforms of the proto-oncogene Erb-B2 Receptor Tyrosine Kinase 2 (ERBB2, HER2) incite unique pathways of tumor progression in mouse models of breast cancer. Although each isoform has been shown to progress to metastasis, the N-terminally truncated isoform (p95) was previously shown to be biased toward early distant dissemination prior to detection. Here we show how HER2 isoforms differentially promote go-or-grow phenotypes through biased utilization of tyrosine autophosphorylation sites in the intracellular tail of HER2. Fluorescently barcoded humanized full-length HER2 (WT), exon-16 splice HER2 isoform (d16), and p95 expressing tumor cell lines were derived from HER2 Crainbow mice, then utilized for a series of functional assays including proliferation, tumor growth rate, cell motility, collective cell migration, cellular morphology, and invasive potential. Quantitative analysis reveals biased tumor cell behaviors across each genotype. WT tumor cells are biased toward proliferation and collective migration, d16 cells are biased toward proliferation and individual motility, and p95 tumor cells are biased toward individual motility and invasion. Single cell analysis reveals a myogenic-like state transition in p95 cells accompanied by an increased nuclear translocation of the Myocardin Related Transcription Factor A (MRTFA). MRTFA knockdown, as well as knockdown of a downstream effector, Transforming growth factor beta 1 induced transcript 1 (TGFB1I1), both inhibit the p95 invasive phenotype. Furthermore, intracellular residue tyrosine 1139 (Y1139) is necessary for MRTFA translocation, and when edited in p95 cells (Y1139F) invasion and motility phenotypes are subsequently lost. Our data illustrate the importance of functionally selective signaling in HER2 and highlight the need for therapeutics that intercept metastasis by targeting HER2 biased signaling.
Hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) and macrophages are key regulators of liver fibrosis, yet their direct communication during fibrogenesis remains incompletely characterized. We showed that genetic deletion of folate receptor beta (Folr2) significantly attenuated experimental liver fibrosis in mice. In both human and murine fibrotic livers, FOLR2+ macrophages are frequently juxtaposed with activated HSCs. Functionally, FOLR2 expressed by reparative, but not M1 or scar-associated, macrophages promotes HSC activation in a contact-dependent manner. Mechanistically, FOLR2 binds to transforming growth factor beta receptor II (TGFβRII) on HSCs, sustaining transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGF-β1) signaling and driving fibrogenesis. Finally, the natural compound fraxinellone targets FOLR2, disrupts its interaction with TGFβRII, and attenuates HSC activation and liver fibrosis. These findings identify the FOLR2-TGFβRII intercellular interaction as a critical mediator of macrophage-HSC crosstalk and highlight its disruption as a promising therapeutic strategy against liver fibrosis.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to The Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Sciences and Chinese Pharmacological Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42530162 is a review article
Pulmonary fibrosis (PF) is a chronic and progressive respiratory disorder marked by aberrant activation of pulmonary fibroblasts and the occurrence of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in alveolar epithelial cells (AECs). This disease process is primarily driven by inflammation and oxidative stress (OS), leading to excessive deposition of the extracellular matrix (ECM). Current treatments provide limited efficacy and are associated with significant side effects. Leonurine and its sulfate derivative SCM198, derived from Herba Leonuri, exhibit anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties. However, their therapeutic effects and mechanisms of action in PF remain poorly understood.Bleomycin (BLM) was delivered intratracheally to mice to establish a model of PF. Human Fetal Lung fibroblast-1 (HFL-1) fibroblasts and A549 AECs were subjected to transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) exposure for in vitro assays. This study comprehensively evaluated the effects of SCM198 on PF and explored its underlying molecular mechanisms through metabolomics analysis, western blotting, and additional biological techniques.SCM198 significantly ameliorated lung pathology and micro-Computed Tomography (CT) findings and reduced collagen deposition in BLM-treated mice. Furthermore, the levels of inflammatory markers and cytokines were decreased in lung tissue and Bronchoalveolar Lavage Fluid (BALF). In vitro, SCM198 inhibited fibroblast activation, EMT, and OS. It also down-regulated the TGF-β1/Smad2/3 pathway and activated the nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) antioxidant pathway.The ameliorative action of SCM198 on BLM-induced pulmonary fibrosis is associated with suppression of the TGF-β1/Smad2/3 signaling axis and activation of Nrf2-mediated antioxidant defenses during the EMT process. However, further studies are needed to confirm the direct involvement of these pathways.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Periodontitis is a chronic infectious disease characterized by the progressive destruction of tooth-supporting tissues. Identifying reliable, noninvasive biomarkers is essential for improving early detection and monitoring. This cross-sectional case‒control study evaluated clinical periodontal parameters and quantified periostin and transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) levels in the saliva and gingival crevicular fluid (GCF) of patients with stage I-II periodontitis and periodontally healthy controls. A total of 60 systemically healthy, nonsmoking participants aged 20-60 years were included (30 periodontitis patients and 30 periodontally healthy controls). Clinical periodontal parameters, including the plaque index, gingival index, probing depth, and clinical attachment level, were recorded. GCF and saliva samples were analyzed using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Compared with periodontally healthy controls, stage I-II periodontitis patients had significantly greater numbers of clinical periodontal parameters (p < 0.001). They also had elevated salivary periostin (1,234.5 ± 505.82 ng/mL vs. 596.32 ± 320.47 ng/mL; p = 0.001), GCF TGF-β1 (10.14 ± 4.44 pg/mL vs. 6.50 ± 3.13 pg/mL; p = 0.003), and salivary TGF-β1 (31.59 ± 7.69 pg/mL vs. 20.25 ± 9.48 pg/mL; p = 0.001) levels. GCF periostin levels did not significantly differ between the periodontitis group (311.3 ± 210.3 ng/mL) and the periodontally healthy control group (208.6 ± 147.6 ng/mL) (p = 0.092). These findings suggest that salivary periostin and TGF-β1, together with GCF TGF-β1, may serve as promising noninvasive biomarkers for the diagnosis and monitoring of early-stage periodontitis. Salivary periostin showed particularly strong discriminatory potential and may hold promise for future chairside diagnostic applications.
Radiotherapy can reshape the tumor microenvironment by promoting the polarization of tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) toward either an antitumor (M1-like) phenotype or an immunosuppressive (M2-like) phenotype that facilitates tumor progression. To evaluate the modulatory effects of the fusion antioxidant enzyme GS1XR on macrophage polarization under radiotherapy-associated conditions, we used hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) to establish an oxidative stress model in RAW264.7 macrophages. The cytotoxicity, intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) scavenging capacity, and cellular uptake efficiency were compared among GS1, GS1R, and GS1XR. Subsequently, two macrophage polarization reporter cell lines-RAW-PNos2-P (for M1-like polarization) and RAW-PArg1-P (for M2-like polarization)-were employed to assess the effects of the three fusion antioxidant enzymes, as well as N-acetylcysteine (NAC), on macrophage polarization induced by H2O2, transforming growth factor beta 1 and conditioned medium from irradiated nasopharyngeal carcinoma cells. The results showed that 200 μmol/L H2O2 significantly increased intracellular ROS levels with minimal impact on cell viability. GS1R and GS1XR exhibited stronger membrane permeability than GS1, and none of the three enzymes showed notable cytotoxicity at the working concentrations. Across all the three polarization-inducing models, antioxidant pretreatment consistently demonstrated a dual regulatory effect of enhancing or maintaining M1-like polarization while suppressing M2-like polarization. GS1R, GS1XR, and NAC were more effective overall than GS1, with GS1XR-featuring both membrane-penetrating and enzyme-responsive functionalities-showing particular promise as a radiotherapy adjuvant. This study reveals the bidirectional regulatory role of antioxidant treatment on macrophage polarization and provides a novel strategy for radiotherapy targeting macrophage plasticity.
2-phenylbenzimidazole-5-sulfonic acid (PBSA), a widely used organic UV filter, is frequently detected in aquatic environments, yet its developmental neurotoxicity (DNT) remains poorly understood. Here, we exposed zebrafish embryos to 0.1-1000 μg/L PBSA and identified 10 μg/L as the effective concentration and 6-48 hours post-fertilization (hpf) as the sensitive developmental window for PBSA-induced DNT. Exposure to 10 μg/L PBSA during the critical window led to a significant increase in reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels and inflammatory response, accompanied by astrocyte activation in specific brain region (elevated GFAP, S100B, and glutamine synthetase), while neurogenesis was inhibited independent of apoptosis. Moreover, PBSA exposure upregulated retinoid X receptor gamma (rxrga) expression and downregulated thrombospondin-1 (tsp-1) expression, with rxrga positively correlated with astrocyte activation markers and negatively correlated with tsp-1 levels. Knockdown of rxrga using morpholino rescued PBSA-induced tsp-1 suppression, neurogenesis impairments, and behavioral abnormalities at 120 hpf, while leaving astrocyte activation unaffected, suggesting that astrocyte activation may operate upstream of rxrga. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that PBSA exposure during a sensitive developmental window induces DNT through oxidative stress, inflammation, and astrocyte activation, with the rxrga/tsp-1 axis mediating neurogenesis inhibition. This study provides mechanistic insights into PBSA-induced neurotoxicity and emphasizes the importance of incorporating DNT assessment in UV filter safety evaluation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Septic cardiomyopathy is characterized by acute cardiac dysfunction, while sustained inflammatory and extracellular matrix remodeling may contribute to subsequent myocardial fibrosis and impaired cardiac recovery. A disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs 4 (ADAMTS4) has been linked to fibrotic remodelling, but its role in septic cardiac injury remains unclear. Here, we show that Adamts4 is upregulated in LPS-induced septic mouse hearts and is predominantly induced in cardiac fibroblasts. Using three fibroblast-lineage Adamts4 knockout models, we demonstrate that Adamts4 deletion attenuates LPS-induced cardiac dysfunction, inflammation and fibrosis, whereas Tcf21-lineage fibroblast Adamts4 overexpression aggravates these changes. Mechanistically, ADAMTS4 interacts with thrombospondin-1 (TSP1) and promotes its catalytic activity-dependent proteolytic processing. The 236-246 amino acid region of TSP1 is required for fragment generation and fibroblast activation. TSP1 processing further activates TGF-β/Smad and NF-κB signalling, promoting myofibroblast activation and extracellular matrix deposition. These findings identify ADAMTS4 as a fibroblast-centred driver of septic cardiac fibrosis and suggest that targeting the ADAMTS4-TSP1 axis may offer therapeutic potential for septic cardiomyopathy. KEY POINTS: ADAMTS4 is induced predominantly in cardiac fibroblasts after LPS challenge Fibroblast-lineage Adamts4 deletion attenuates LPS-induced cardiac dysfunction and fibrosis The TSP1 236-246 aa region is required for efficient ADAMTS4-dependent processing ADAMTS4-dependent TSP1 processing activates TGF-β/Smad and NF-κB signalling in fibroblasts.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical and Translational Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Shanghai Institute of Clinical Bioinformatics.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42547443 is a review article
The formation of keloids is influenced by mechanical stretch. Thrombospondin-1 (TSP-1) is identified as a tension-sensitive protein. However, the relationship between TSP-1 and keloid formation induced by mechanical stretch remains unknown.A simple customized mechanical stretch device was used for the application of homogeneous equibiaxial stretch (HES). Using Western blot and RT-PCR, the optimal stretch strength and duration were determined. Regarding the functional changes induced by stretch in keloid fibroblasts (Kfbs), cell function assays were used. The relationship between TSP-1 expression and stretch-induced scar formation in human and animal models was investigated using immunohistochemistry. The knockdown of TSP-1 in fibroblasts served as a reverse test.Optimal HES (oHES) could be achieved with four rotations of the screws on our mechanical stretch device, resulting in a significant increase in vimentin, Col I, and fibronectin expression in Kfbs on Day 5. Additionally, oHES significantly promoted cell proliferation and migration. oHES resulted in the upregulation of TSP-1 expression in both in vitro and in vivo experimental settings. The inhibition of TSP-1 may attenuate oHES-induced keloid formation through the Akt and GSK-3β/β-catenin signaling pathways.The results confirmed that oHES promoted keloid formation by increasing Col I expression through TSP-1-mediated Akt and GSK-3β/β-catenin signaling pathways.© 2025 The Author(s). Health Science Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42509811 is a review article
Neuroinflammation is a major determinant of secondary injury after intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH), but the microglial states that drive this process and their upstream regulators remain incompletely resolved. We integrated public single-cell RNA sequencing and bulk RNA sequencing datasets with experimental validation to define inflammatory microglial programs after ICH. Re-clustering of microglia identified an acute MG3 subpopulation enriched for cytokine, NF-κB, and TNF signaling pathways. Integrative analysis with weighted gene co-expression network analysis prioritized thrombospondin-1 (THBS1) as a candidate regulator of this state. In perihematomal tissue, THBS1 increased prominently at day 3 after ICH and localized predominantly to microglia. In oxyhemoglobin-stimulated BV2 cells, Thbs1 knockdown reduced iNOS/CD16/32-associated inflammatory features and the release of TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-1β, while increasing CD206 expression. In CX3CR1Cre/ERT2 mice, microglia-targeted Thbs1 knockdown decreased perihematomal TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-1β levels, attenuated neuronal injury, and improved long-term neurological recovery. Direct RNA sequencing and MeRIP-qPCR further showed dynamic changes in m6A enrichment on Thbs1 transcripts after ICH, supporting an association between RNA methylation and temporal Thbs1 regulation. Together, these data identify a THBS1-high inflammatory microglial state in experimental ICH and support THBS1 as a candidate mediator of inflammatory secondary injury after experimental ICH.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42500710 is a review article
Liver sinusoidal microthrombosis (LST) is recognized as an initiating event in fibrogenesis and portal hypertension in chronic liver diseases. Liver sinusoidal endothelial cell (LSEC)-derived chemoattractants recruit neutrophils and macrophages, promoting LST in congestive hepatopathy (CH). However, the driving molecules from LSECs for LST remain unclear. This study aims to elucidate that LSECs inflammatory via cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) upregulation triggers metabolic reprogramming promoting thrombospondin-1 (TSP-1)-mediated LST and portal hypertension. A murine model of LST and portal hypertension was established by partial ligation of inferior vena cava (pIVCL). LST and portal hypertension were suppressed in both LSEC-specific COX-2 knockout mice (Ptgs2ΔLSEC) and celecoxib-treated wild-type mice induced by pIVCL. RNA sequencing of mouse liver tissue and untargeted metabolomics of human hepatic sinusoidal endothelial cells (HHSECs) revealed that COX-2 inhibition was concurrent with downregulation of the AKT/mTOR pathway, reduced lactate, and decreased TSP-1. In vitro, COX-2-derived prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) activated the AKT/mTOR pathway, driving glycolytic reprogramming and lactate production. In turn, the accumulation of lactate induced by COX-2 upregulation enhanced histone H3K9 lactylation, which transcriptionally upregulated Thbs1 (encoding TSP-1), thereby instigating a prothrombotic phenotype in LSECs. Collectively, this study uncovers a novel pathogenic axis in LST formation, where COX-2 drives a prothrombotic switch in LSECs via AKT/mTOR-mediated metabolic reprogramming and lactate-dependent epigenetic upregulation of TSP-1. Targeting LSEC COX-2 may represent a promising therapeutic strategy for mitigating LST and portal hypertension.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Type 1 regulatory T (Tr1) cells are IL-10-producing CD4+ regulatory T cells that play a central role in maintaining peripheral immune tolerance. Prior investigations of autologous Tr1 cell-based therapies have demonstrated clinical promise in graft-versus-host disease (GvHD), but widespread clinical application has been constrained by challenges in scaling cell production. TRX103 is an engineered, allogeneic Tr1 cell therapy manufactured using a fully compliant, current Good Manufacturing Practice-compatible process. TRX103 is generated by pooling engineered CD4+ T cells from three healthy donors that have been transduced with a lentiviral vector encoding human IL-10 and a truncated human nerve growth factor receptor, CD271. In vitro, off-the-shelf TRX103 suppressed effector T cell proliferation and inhibited pro-inflammatory cytokine production by monocytes from both healthy donors and patients with Crohn's disease. In vivo, TRX103 homed to intestinal tissues and prevented disease development in a xenogeneic GvHD model. Phenotypic and functional analyses of TRX103 revealed the acquisition of a distinct cellular identity characterized by reduced expression of activation and immune synapse-associated molecules and minimal allogeneic stimulatory capacity. Together, these findings define a distinct immunomodulatory profile for TRX103 and support its clinical development as a scalable allogeneic cell therapy for immune-mediated diseases. TRX103 is currently being evaluated in a Phase 1/2a study in treatment-refractory Crohn's disease (NCT06721962) and a Phase I study for GvHD prevention in hematopoietic stem cell transplantation recipients (NCT06462365).Copyright © 2026 Uyeda, Re, Tang, McLaughlin, Humes, Sexton, Freeborn, Villalba, Nugent, Adams, Wei, Breton, Paliard, Richter, Roncarolo and Bjordahl.
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is characterized by oxidative stress (OS). This study reveals a novel epigenetic mechanism linking lysine acetyltransferase 5 (KAT5) and thrombospondin-1 (TSP-1) in PCOS pathogenesis. A meta-analysis of 50 clinical studies demonstrated elevated systemic oxidative markers (total oxidant status, nitric oxide, malondialdehyde) and reduced paraoxonase-1 levels in PCOS patients, alongside compromised total antioxidant capacity in follicular fluid. Bioinformatic analysis identified TSP-1 as a key downregulated gene in PCOS, and the hTFtarget database predicted KAT5 as an upstream regulator of TSP-1. In vitro, H₂O₂-induced oxidative stress in KGN granulosa cells suppressed TSP-1, KAT5, and H2AK5ac levels, which were restored by N-acetylcysteine (NAC). Mechanistically, KAT5 was found to regulate TSP-1 expression via H2AK5 acetylation at its promoter. Knockdown of KAT5 exacerbated oxidative stress, apoptosis, and senescence, while TSP-1 overexpression counteracted these effects. In a letrozole-induced PCOS rat model, ovarian tissues exhibited decreased H2AK5 acetylation, reduced KAT5 and TSP-1 expression, and impaired redox homeostasis. Interventions with N-acetylcysteine or TSP-1 ameliorated ovarian pathological changes, hormonal imbalances, oxidative stress, apoptosis, and cellular senescence. Collectively, these findings establish the KAT5-TSP-1 axis as a critical regulator of ovarian redox homeostasis, unveiling a novel epigenetic mechanism and proposing a dual-target therapeutic strategy for PCOS.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Society for Reproductive Investigation.
Our laboratory has previously described a mouse model (CD40LΔ5) that produces 60% of wild-type CD40L due to a targeted deletion in an RNA binding site within the CD40L message. The CD40LΔ5 mutation, which destabilizes CD40L mRNA during T-cell activation, causes disrupted germinal center (GC) formation, leading to reduced levels of memory B cells and switched antibodies. In this study, we used our model of limited CD40L expression to investigate its effect on systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE, or lupus) using 2 different mouse models of SLE. The first model used the hydrocarbon oil pristane to induce lupus-like symptoms over a 6-month period, and the second utilized a chronic graft-versus-host disease (bm12-cGVHD) that resembles lupus and allowed us to monitor the early events in disease development. Importantly, we found that in both systems, female mice expressing the CD40LΔ5 mutation showed a consistent increase in elevated antibody-secreting cells and autoantibody titers. In addition, pristane-induced lupus female CD40LΔ5 mice had higher levels of immunocomplex deposition in the kidney compared to all other cohorts. Increases in autoantibodies and GC cells in female CD40LΔ5 versus wild-type recipient mice were also evident in the bm12-cGVHD model. Additionally, CD4+ T cells from female CD40LΔ5 recipient mice were skewed toward a Th2 phenotype and expressed a distinct cytokine expression pattern upon activation of dendritic cells. Overall, our results support a nuanced role for optimal CD40L expression in lupus and suggest a sex-determined threshold of CD40L-CD40 signaling that is critical at the very early steps of disease progression.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42517579 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42515677 is a review article
Background: Left ventricular (LV) dysfunction is a clinically important complication of anthracycline- and trastuzumab-based treatment in breast cancer. Inflammatory pathways may contribute to cancer therapy-related cardiac dysfunction, and the CD40/CD40 ligand (CD40L) axis has been implicated in vascular inflammation and myocardial injury. This study assessed longitudinal changes in CD40 and CD40L during adjuvant treatment and their association with LV dysfunction. Methods: Twenty-eight women with operable breast cancer receiving adjuvant anthracycline-based chemotherapy with or without trastuzumab were prospectively evaluated. Blood samples were collected at baseline, 6 months, and treatment completion at 15 months to measure CD40 and CD40L. Cardiac function was assessed by transthoracic echocardiography, including left ventricular ejection fraction and global longitudinal strain, at baseline and every 3 months. Repeated-measures analysis of variance examined temporal biomarker changes and interactions with LV dysfunction. Results: Participants had a mean age of 52.6 ± 10.7 years and a mean BMI of 25.8 ± 4.8 kg/m2; 64% were postmenopausal, 76% had HER2-positive disease, and 79.3% received radiotherapy and trastuzumab. During follow-up, 15 patients (53.6%) developed LV dysfunction. CD40 levels remained stable overall (p = 0.31), whereas CD40L increased significantly over time (p < 0.001). Baseline CD40 did not differ by LV dysfunction status (p = 0.79). However, CD40 showed a significant time-by-LV dysfunction interaction (p = 0.022), increasing late in patients with LV dysfunction and declining in those without it. CD40L showed no such interaction (p = 0.85). Conclusions: In this small exploratory cohort, CD40 demonstrated differential longitudinal patterns according to subsequent LV dysfunction, whereas CD40L increased over time without a clear association with LV dysfunction. These findings should be interpreted as hypothesis-generating and require validation in larger prospective cohorts.
Neuroblastoma remains one of the most lethal pediatric solid tumors, and durable control of high-risk disease is hindered not only by inefficient tumor-selective drug delivery but also by a profoundly immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment. To address these dual barriers, we developed a chemoimmunotherapeutic vesicle-mimetic platform, DAS/CD40L-EM@DOX, by engineering CD40L-overexpressing HEK-293 T donor cells, generating extracellular vesicle mimetics through extrusion, decorating the membrane with a neuroblastoma-targeting DAS peptide, and post-loading doxorubicin. The resulting formulation preserved a nanoscale vesicular morphology, displayed CD40L on the membrane, and showed favorable particle size and zeta potential characteristics. In neuroblastoma cells, DAS decoration enhanced uptake in an α7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor-associated manner and increased the cytotoxic and immunogenic effects of doxorubicin, as evidenced by augmented apoptosis, calreticulin exposure, and HMGB1 release. In macrophage assays, CD40L-containing vesicles shifted M2-like cells toward an M1-like phenotype, increasing CD86, TNF-α and IL-6 while decreasing CD206, IL-10 and TGF-β. Functionally, this repolarization enhanced tumor-cell phagocytosis and promoted CD8+ T-cell effector responses, including increased granzyme B, IFN-γ and IL-2 production. In tumor-bearing mice, DAS modification improved tumor accumulation and reduced off-target sequestration relative to unmodified vesicles. Therapeutically, DAS/CD40L-EM@DOX exerted the strongest inhibition of tumor growth, reduced tumor burden, prolonged survival, increased intratumoural M1-like macrophages and CD8+ T cells, decreased M2-like macrophages and regulatory T cells, and enhanced immunogenic cell-death markers in situ. Together, these findings support DAS/CD40L-EM@DOX as a dual-function vesicle-mimetic nanomedicine that couples neuroblastoma-targeted chemotherapy with macrophage reprogramming to remodel the tumor immune microenvironment and improve antitumour efficacy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Polyamine metabolism is essential for cell proliferation and differentiation; however, its specific role in insulin signaling regulation remains poorly understood. Here, we uncover an unexpected role for spermidine synthase (SRM) in linking lipid overload to insulin resistance. In a teleost fish model, we demonstrate high fat diet (HFD) suppresses hepatic SRM expression via X-box binding protein 1 (XBP1)-dependent transcriptional repression. Loss of SRM, either by pharmacological inhibition or siRNA-mediated knockdown, impairs insulin signaling, as evidenced by decreased AKT phosphorylation and increased expression of gluconeogenic enzymes. Conversely, overexpression of SRM enhances insulin sensitivity and suppresses gluconeogenesis. Mechanistically, SRM-mediated regulation of the insulin signaling pathway is dependent on its downstream metabolite spermidine (SPD), which functions through AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) pathway, as the beneficial effects of SPD are abolished by the AMPK inhibitor Compound C. In addition, dietary HFD significantly decreases hepatic SPD levels by 35% and reduces the p-AKT/AKT ratio by 58% in croaker, while it elevates blood glucose levels by 39%. Conversely, SPD supplementation increases the p-AKT/AKT ratio by 131% and lowers blood glucose levels by 20%, compared with the HFD group. Taken together, our findings establish the SRM-SPD axis as a critical link between nutritional stress and insulin resistance, and highlight SPD as a potential nutraceutical for combating insulin resistance and glucose intolerance in teleost fish.© 2026 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42482223 is a review article
T-2 toxin, a prevalent mycotoxin in feed, poses severe health risks to poultry. While its systemic toxicity is recognized, its neurotoxic effects in birds, and effective countermeasures, remain underexplored. Sodium butyrate (NaB), a green feed additive, has shown broad biological benefits, but its potential to alleviate T-2-induced neurotoxicity is unclear.This study aimed to investigate the neurotoxic mechanisms of T-2 toxin in quails and evaluate the protective role of sodium butyrate.Two-hundred-and-forty 10-day-old quails were randomly assigned to Control, T-2 toxin (0.9 mg/kg), NaB (500 mg/kg), and T-2+NaB groups. After 14 and 28 days, brain tissues were collected for histopathological (hematoxylin-eosin [HE], Nissl, Fluoro-Jade B [FJB] staining) and molecular analyses (RT-qPCR, Western blot, semi-quantitative PCR) to assess oxidative stress, inflammation, and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress.T-2 toxin induced severe brain damage, characterized by neuronal vacuolization, loss of Nissl bodies, and degeneration. It concurrently activated oxidative stress (upregulated Nrf2 [nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2], HO-1 [heme oxygenase-1], NQO1 [NAD(P)H: quinone oxidoreductase 1]), neuroinflammation (elevated TNF-α [tumor necrosis factor-alpha], IL-1β [interleukin-1 beta], IL-6 [interleukin-6], IL-18 [interleukin-18]), and ER stress (increased GRP78 [glucose-regulated protein 78], IRE1α [inositol-requiring enzyme 1 alpha], TRAF2 [TNF receptor-associated factor 2], IKKα/β [IκB kinase alpha/beta], XBP1 [X-box binding protein 1]). Sodium butyrate supplementation significantly mitigated these histopathological alterations and downregulated the overactivated molecular pathways across all three axes.This study demonstrates that sodium butyrate confers comprehensive neuroprotection against T-2 toxin in quails by co-ordinately alleviating oxidative stress, neuroinflammation, and ER stress. These findings provide a mechanistic basis for using NaB as a dietary intervention to combat mycotoxin-related neurotoxicity in poultry.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Endothelial senescence is a critical contributor to vascular aging and age-related vasculopathies. Our previous work identified AGGF1 as a regulator of cell cycle progression and anti-inflammatory signaling. However, whether AGGF1 modulates endothelial senescence remains unclear. Here, we demonstrate that AGGF1 is downregulated in both replicative and DOX-induced senescent HUVECs. AGGF1 knockdown accelerated cellular senescence as evidenced by senescence markers, including increased SA-β-gal activity, enhanced formation of γH2AX foci, elevated IL-6 levels, and impaired proliferation, whereas AGGF1 overexpression prevented DOX- and MMC-induced senescence using adenovirus and lentivirus-mediated gene manipulation. To investigate the underlying mechanisms, we performed RNA sequencing, small-molecule drug intervention, transmission electron microscopy (TEM), and other imaging techniques in subsequent experiments. Transcriptomic and functional analyses revealed that AGGF1 transcriptionally upregulates TGFB3, which is associated with TAK1 activation and AMPK phosphorylation, ultimately inhibiting excessive mitochondrial fragmentation and suppressing cellular senescence. This signaling module reduced DRP1 expression and attenuated its activating phosphorylation at Ser616. TEM results further confirmed that AGGF1 overexpression significantly reduced mitochondrial fragmentation in cells. Additionally, this proposed association was supported by pharmacological inhibition (Takinib, Compound C) and TGFB3 knockdown, which abrogated AGGF1-mediated protection. Collectively, we identified that AGGF1 is critical for regulating a proposed TGFB3-TAK1-AMPK regulatory module, which delays endothelial senescence partially through maintenance of mitochondrial morphology. Our study provides evidence that AGGF1 plays an important role in metabolic control and cellular senescence.© 2026. The Author(s).
Cyclin E1 (CCNE1), a critical regulator of cell cycle progression, has been implicated in various cancers; however, its prognostic significance and functional role across breast cancer (BC) subtypes remain inadequately defined. This study aims to comprehensively analyze CCNE1 mRNA expression and evaluate its potential as both a prognostic biomarker and a therapeutic guide.We analyzed CCNE1 mRNA expression using large-scale BC cohorts (TCGA, METABRIC, GEO) and assessed associations with tumour grade, overall survival, and mutation status. The muTarget platform was employed to investigate associations between CCNE1 expression and key genetic alterations. Furthermore, gene set enrichment analysis was performed to identify enriched biological pathways, and functional studies were conducted using mTORC1 inhibition in TP53-mutant, RB1-deficient TNBC cells to evaluate cell viability and CCNE1 expression levels.CCNE1 expression was significantly associated with higher tumour grade, overall survival, and distinct mutation statuses. Gene set enrichment analysis revealed enrichment of proliferation-related pathways, including G2-M checkpoint, E2F targets, and mTORC1 signaling in CCNE1-high tumors. Moreover, functional studies showed that mTORC1 inhibition successfully reduced CCNE1 expression and impaired viability in TP53-mutant, RB1-deficient TNBC cells.CCNE1 overexpression characterises a clinically aggressive subset of breast cancers, particularly TNBC. Targeting mTORC1 may represent a promising therapeutic approach in CCNE1-high, TP53-mutated, and RB1-deficient tumours, supporting the clinical utility of CCNE1 in patient stratification and targeted therapy.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Federación de Sociedades Españolas de Oncología (FESEO).
Background: Cyclin-dependent kinase 2 (CDK2) is a key regulator of cell cycle progression and an important therapeutic target in cancer treatment. This study aims to identify novel CDK2 inhibitors using an integrated computational approach combining machine learning and structure-based methods. Methods: A computational pipeline was developed incorporating Lipinski's Rule of Five filtering, machine learning (ML)-based activity prediction, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics simulations (MDs). A dataset of CDK2 inhibitors with IC50 values was retrieved from ChEMBL, and molecular fingerprints were generated using PaDEL. A 5-fold stratified cross-validation approach was applied to train multiple classifiers, with the random forest model showing the best performance. Predicted active compounds from the InterBioScreen database were subjected to docking against CDK2 (PDB ID: 2FVD) using PyRx, followed by 100 ns MDS for stability analysis. Results: The random forest classifier achieved an AUC-ROC of 0.90 and an accuracy of 0.84. A total of 187 compounds were predicted as active. Among these, two compounds, STOCK4S-00019 and STOCK4S-00025, demonstrated docking scores comparable to the co-crystallized reference ligand. Molecular dynamics simulations confirmed stable binding, consistent interaction patterns, and favorable conformational behavior throughout the simulation period. Conclusions: The identified compounds, STOCK4S-00019 (hit1) and STOCK4S-00025 (hit2), show strong potential as CDK2 inhibitors. These findings support their further investigation through experimental validation and highlight the effectiveness of integrated computational approaches in anticancer drug discovery.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) remains a leading cause of cancer mortality globally, underscoring the need to identify key molecular drivers. Cell division cycle 20 (CDC20), a regulator of cell cycle progression, is frequently dysregulated in malignancies. Its specific role and mechanisms in CRC pathogenesis are poorly understood, warranting investigation to uncover novel therapeutic targets. In this study, CDC20 mRNA expression was quantified by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), while its protein levels were assessed using Western blotting. Cell proliferation was evaluated via the 5-Ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU) assay. Cell apoptosis was analyzed by flow cytometry. Migration and invasion capabilities were examined using wound-healing and Transwell invasion assays, respectively. Angiogenesis was assessed using a tube formation assay. To investigate the in vivo effects of CDC20 knockdown, a xenograft mouse model was employed to monitor tumor growth. Flow cytometry was performed to quantify CD206( +) macrophages. Mechanistic studies included chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP), dual-luciferase reporter, RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP), and methylated RNA immunoprecipitation (MeRIP) assays to explore GATA binding protein 6 (GATA6) and methyltransferase-like 3 (METTL3) interactions with CDC20. The results showed that CDC20 expression at the mRNA and protein levels was significantly upregulated in CRC tissues in comparison with normal colorectal tissues. Moreover, its protein expression was higher in CRC cells than in human normal colonic epithelial cells. Its knockdown suppressed CRC cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and tube formation, while promoting apoptosis. In addition, CDC20 depletion inhibited tumor growth and immune escape. Transcription factor GATA6 directly activated transcription of the CDC20 gene. Crucially, restoring CDC20 expression counteracted the tumor-suppressive effects of GATA6 knockdown on malignant behaviors and immune escape. METTL3 stabilized CDC20 transcripts via insulin-like growth factor 2 mRNA-binding protein 2 (IGF2BP2)-mediated mRNA stability. Further, overexpressing CDC20 similarly reversed the inhibitory effects of METTL3 knockdown on CRC cell malignancy and immune escape. Thus, CDC20, upregulated transcriptionally by GATA6 and post-transcriptionally by METTL3, drove CRC progression, angiogenesis, and immune evasion. Targeting CDC20 or its regulators holds significant clinical promise for developing therapies in CRC patients.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Japan Human Cell Society.
Schwann cells (SC) are responsible for myelination in the peripheral nervous system (PNS). Myelin allows saltatory transmission of action potentials along axons and functionally relies on its unique constitution. We previously reported that Cdk7, a regulator of cell cycle progression and transcription, regulates myelin gene expression in oligodendrocytes and contributes to myelin maintenance in the central nervous system. Using mice with conditional Cdk7 knock-out in SCs, we provide evidence that Cdk7 is dispensable for myelin initiation but needed for the correct myelin thickness of larger caliber fibers in young mice, as well as for myelin elongation and rapid nerve conduction throughout age. We report that Cdk7 loss results in disturbed myelin stoichiometry, with significant dysregulation of lipid-related genes in SCs and a reduction in myelin protein zero. Finally, we demonstrate that Rxrγ, a nuclear receptor involved in lipid metabolism, is significantly downregulated in the absence of Cdk7. However, although Cdk7 regulates myelin segment length, our results indicate that this effect occurs independently of Rxrγ in myelinating dorsal root ganglion explants.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42416401 is a review article
CDKN1A (encoding p21) is a canonical regulator of cell cycle arrest and genomic stability. However, its functional spectrum within the tumor microenvironment (TME), especially at single-cell resolution, remains insufficiently defined.We performed an integrative multiomics analysis combining bulk transcriptomics, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), and functional assays across multiple cancer types. Publicly available datasets were used to assess CDKN1A expression, immune infiltration, and signaling pathways. Functional validation was conducted upon silencing or overexpression of p21 in several cancer cell lines.Pancancer analysis revealed that CDKN1A expression is frequently dysregulated across multiple tumor types and is associated with patient prognosis. ScRNA-seq further demonstrated that CDKN1A was preferentially enriched in nonmalignant epithelial cells and varies along an inferred malignant epithelial transcriptional continuum. Computational cell-cell communication analysis suggested inferred ligand-receptor associations involving extracellular matrix-related and immune-associated signaling pathways. Functionally, p21 overexpression suppressed tumor cell proliferation, induced senescence and apoptosis, and reduced migratory capacity across multiple cancer cell lines. In vitro drug-sensitivity assays further showed that p21 overexpression was associated with enhanced sensitivity to targeted therapy and chemotherapy agents, as evidenced by reduced IC50 values. In addition, p21 regulated immune-related molecules, including ICOS, TGFB1, and PDCD1, and coculture experiments revealed that macrophage polarization differentially modulates p21-mediated tumor cell inhibition, with M1 macrophages enhancing and M2 macrophages attenuating this effect.By delineating its function at single-cell resolution, we identify CDKN1A as a prognostic biomarker and a potential modulator of tumor-cell drug sensitivity that requires further clinical validation. These findings expand the conventional view of p21 from a cell cycle inhibitor to a context-dependent regulator of tumor immune interactions and therapeutic sensitivity-associated phenotypes.Copyright © 2026 Wenyang Zhang et al. Human Mutation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Chronic pain affects approximately one fifth of people worldwide and displays a huge burden for health care institutions. Some chronic pain conditions have a higher prevalence in women than men. Previous studies related these sex-specific differences to sex-hormone receptor activation and interaction with pain-related receptors like the transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1). Here, especially estrogen seems to play a crucial role. While the role of estrogen receptor alpha and beta in modulating TRPV1 has already been studied, the interplay of the membrane-bound and G-protein -coupled estrogen receptor (GPER1) with nociceptor-associated ion channels is still unknown. The study at hand focuses on the establishment of a human induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) -based nociceptor model to unravel the effect of GPER1 activation on nociceptor excitability. Therefore, a human dermal fibroblast cell line was successfully reprogrammed into the iPSC line BO-VC1 and subsequently differentiated into nociceptors expressing GPER1 besides TRPV1 and the Twik-related spinal cord potassium channel (TRESK). The activation of GPER1 by its specific agonist G-1 led to significantly reduced action potential firing rates and TRPV1-mediated calcium influx. In addition, GPER1 was found to downregulate TRPV1-mediated ion currents upon G-1 treatment in a human embryonic kidney cell -based model. Our findings support the hypothesis that GPER1 activation silences neuronal excitability in nociceptors, probably being a candidate for future research focusing on targeted pain modulation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 42546129
