Paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria (PNH) is a rare, acquired clonal haematopoietic stem cell disorder characterised by intravascular haemolysis, thrombosis and bone marrow failure. It results from an acquired somatic mutation in the X-linked phosphatidylinositol glycan Class A (PIGA) gene, leading to deficiency of glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored complement regulatory proteins, particularly CD55 and CD59, and uncontrolled complement-mediated haemolysis. Although sickle cell disease is the most prevalent haemolytic anaemia in Kenya, other aetiologies need to be considered. We describe a case series of seven patients with PNH confirmed by fluorescent aerolysin reagent (FLAER) flow cytometry. Patients were young, aged 17-38 years (median age of 23 years), with a predominance of males. All presented with recurrent symptomatic anaemia requiring multiple transfusions. One patient had pancytopenia due to very severe aplastic anaemia, while another presented with mesenteric vein thrombosis complicated by bowel ischaemia. All patients had large PNH clones on flow cytometry. Management was largely supportive due to a lack of access to complement inhibitor. These included blood transfusion, folate supplementation, cautious iron replacement and anticoagulation where indicated. One patient underwent successful matched sibling allogeneic stem cell transplant. This series highlights the presence of PNH in Kenya, diagnostic delay and the need for improved access to definitive testing and therapy in resource-limited environments.Copyright © 2026 Matilda Ong’ondi et al. Case Reports in Hematology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Ethylene oxide (EtO) is primarily used as an intermediate in the manufacture of chemicals, with a minor use as a sterilant for medical equipment and food products. It is a direct-acting alkylating agent that reacts with cellular macromolecules, including proteins and DNA. EtO has been shown to induce tumors in rodents and humans. DNA reactivity has been the postulated mode of action (MOA) for its carcinogenicity. The current study has investigated the dose response for EtO-induced genetic damage to inform the biological plausibility of a dose-response model for cancer risk assessment. Male and female B6C3F1 mice (≥ 10/sex/concentration) were exposed to 0, 0.05, 0.1, 0.5, 1, 50, 100, or 200 ppm EtO by whole-body inhalation (6 h/day for 28 days, 7 days/week). Mutagenicity was assessed by determining the frequency of mutant Pig-a phenotype in reticulocytes (RET) and mature red blood cells (RBC) on Day 28. Cytogenetic damage was evaluated by the erythrocyte micronucleus (MN) test in blood samples collected on Days 5 and 28. EtO is a relatively weak genotoxicant with treatment-related increases in Pig-a and MN frequencies being seen primarily at 200 ppm. The hockey-stick shaped dose response for genetic damage may be conservatively interpreted as being no more than a linear response with a single slope. Thus, a cancer risk assessment dose-response model consisting of a single shallow linear slope throughout the exposure range is biologically plausible and consistent if EtO were acting through a mutagenic MoA for its carcinogenicity.© 2026 The Author(s). Environmental and Molecular Mutagenesis published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Environmental Mutagenesis and Genomics Society.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42432858
Multiple congenital anomalies-hypotonia-seizures syndrome type 1 (MCAHS1) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder caused by PIGN variants affecting glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor biosynthesis. Exon-level duplications are exceptionally uncommon.We describe a male neonate with multiple congenital anomalies, including auricular malformation, submucous cleft palate, accessory nipple, cryptorchidism, microphallus, clubfoot, and digital hypoplasia, accompanied by hypotonia and poor sucking. Whole-exome trio sequencing identified a biallelic duplication spanning exons 4-22 of PIGN, with an apparent four-copy state in the proband.This report expands the mutational spectrum of PIGN-related disorders and emphasizes the diagnostic value of trio-based exome sequencing in neonates with multiple congenital anomalies and hypotonia.© 2026. The Author(s).
Glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchors are a post-translational modification made to over 150 proteins. These GPI-anchored proteins are enriched in lipid rafts in the plasma membrane and serve a variety of functions. Human pathogenic variants in GPI biosynthesis pathway enzymes are collectively called inherited GPI deficiencies and lead to several brain anomalies, but we still lack a deep understanding of GPI-anchor functions in brain development. PIGA and PGAP2 are two enzymes in the GPI-anchor biosynthesis pathway. A Nestin-Cre mediated deletion of Piga in the mouse led to early postnatal death and significant structural brain malformations. There are no studies on Pgap2 loss of function in the brain to date. We extended these studies with a series of genetic ablations to further determine the role of Piga and Pgap2 in the forebrain, oligodendrocytes, and cerebellum. We find Piga expression in the hindbrain is absolutely required for survival while Pgap2 ablations were much less deleterious.© 2026 The Authors.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42236510
Most colorectal cancer (CRC) patients exhibit resistance to immune checkpoint blockade (ICB), limiting treatment efficacy. Activating the unfolded protein response sensor IRE1α in cancer cells can induce anticancer immune responses, yet its regulation remains unclear. Here we identify Dolichyl-Phosphate Mannosyltransferase 1 (DPM1) as a regulator of IRE1 expression and activity using BioID screen. Analysis of CRC patient RNA-sequencing data reveals that low DPM1 expression correlates with an IRE1-dependent transcriptional signature, increased immune infiltration, and improved ICB responses. Mechanistically, DPM1 ablation reduces protein glycosylation, causing chronic IRE1 activation in cancer cells and enhanced cytotoxic T cell-mediated immunosurveillance. Inhibition or knock-out of IRE1 reverses this effect. These findings establish DPM1 as a modulator of IRE1 activity that influences tumor immunogenicity, suggesting its potential as a therapeutic target to improve cancer immunotherapy outcomes.© 2026. The Author(s).
Developmental and epileptic encephalopathies (DEEs) with early burst-suppression EEG (EIDEE-BS) are among the most severe neonatal epileptic syndromes, typically presenting in the first months of life with refractory seizures and profound neurodevelopmental impairment. Although variants in the KCNQ2, STXBP1, and SCN2A genes are recognized as major causes, the full genetic spectrum remains uncertain. We aimed to delineate the electroclinical characteristics, genetic etiologies, and long-term outcomes in a large MRI-negative EIDEE-BS cohort.We retrospectively analyzed 110 patients with BS EEG enrolled from a database of 1,540 individuals with suspected genetic epilepsies (2008-2023). Clinical, EEG, and genetic data were systematically collected. Patients were stratified into 4 groups: KCNQ2, STXBP1, "other pathogenic variants," and "without a genetic diagnosis." EEG traces were reviewed independently, and outcomes were assessed through long-term follow-up.Pathogenic or likely pathogenic variants were identified in 62.7% of patients and involved 23 genes, including 2 copy number variants. KCNQ2 (n = 24) and STXBP1 (n = 16) accounted for one-third of diagnoses, whereas SCN2A (n = 3) and KCNT1 (n = 2) were less frequent. In KCNQ2 cases, seizures and BS onset occurred earlier than in STXBP1 cases: mean 2 days vs 6 weeks for seizures and 3 days vs 2 months for BS, respectively. A typical BS pattern (bursts longer than suppressions) strongly correlated with KCNQ2 and STXBP1 variants. Novel associations were found with DPM1, GRIN2A, KCNT2, PIGO, PURA, WWOX, and candidate genes (KMT2E, SNAP25, and SYT1). Most variants were de novo heterozygous; however, recessive and X-linked inheritance patterns were also observed. Mortality was high (25%), primarily from status epilepticus and complications of severe disability. Most patients (72.5%) had persistent seizures at follow-up (a mean of 6.5 years), as well as profound intellectual disabilities, irrespective of genotype.This large series highlights the strong monogenic basis of EIDEE-BS. KCNQ2, STXBP1, and SCN2A were the most commonly affected genes. Early EEG features, particularly BS timing and morphology, can help anticipate the underlying genotype and guide precision therapy, including the early use of sodium channel blockers in selected cases. These findings support recent ILAE reclassification efforts and underscore the importance of comprehensive genomic testing for improved diagnosis and counseling.
This report presents the case of a 60-year-old woman who was admitted with symptoms of fatigue and poor appetite. Laboratory investigations revealed severe acute kidney injury (AKI), indicated by a serum creatinine level of 2,065 μmol/L, necessitating the initiation of emergency hemodialysis. The patient also exhibited hemolytic anemia (hemoglobin, 69 g/L), thrombocytopenia (platelet nadir, 45 × 109/L), venous thrombosis, a positive direct antiglobulin test (DAT), and a low absolute reticulocyte count. Conventional flow cytometry (red blood cells and neutrophils CD55/CD59) did not detect a paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH) clone. Renal biopsy revealed hemoglobin cast nephropathy and intrarenal venous thrombosis. Subsequent bone marrow evaluation, high-sensitivity flow cytometry (FLAER method), and supportive PIGA sequencing findings established the diagnosis of PNH. Treatment with eculizumab led to hematologic remission and progressive renal recovery. This case underscores the importance of considering PNH in patients with severe AKI and hemolysis, even when initial conventional flow cytometry is negative.Copyright © 2026 Jiang, Chen, Xu, Shi and Huang.
Sex differences in obesity are well recognized; however, the identification of sex-specific obesity genes and the mechanisms through which they affect obesity development remain elusive. Here, we identify a germ-cell-specific gene C2orf74, whose expression is responsive to high-fat diet (HFD) and promotes HFD-induced obesity in male mice by restraining lipolysis and limiting the browning of white adipocytes through suppression of androgen receptor signaling, but not in females. Additionally, C2orf74's expression increases with aging, contributing to aging-related obesity and metabolic comorbidities in chow-fed male mice. We demonstrate that C2orf74 is an ER-residing transmembrane protein that anchors and stabilizes dolichol phosphate mannose synthase 1 (Dpm1) on the ER membrane, facilitating Dpm1-mediated glycosylation and secretion of Bpifa3 from germ cells. As a paracrine regulator, Bpifa3 transcriptionally suppresses the expression of testosterone biosynthesis enzymes in Leydig cells. Therapeutically, we demonstrate that antisense oligonucleotide (ASO) targeting C2orf74 protects male mice from HFD-induced obesity. Thus, our study defines a role for germ-Leydig cell crosstalk, mediated by C2orf74, in the white adipocytes browning in both age-associated and diet-induced obesity.© 2026. The Author(s).
Porosity, hole radius, panel thickness, and thickness-to-diameter ratio govern sound absorption in micro-perforated panels (MPPs) through viscous-thermal losses in submillimeter apertures. A physics-informed machine-learning workflow is presented for predicting the frequency-averaged absorption coefficient α¯, combining acoustically motivated feature design with probabilistic prediction and calibrated uncertainty. A quality-controlled dataset of 1000 MPP geometries spanning hole radius, porosity, thickness, perforation-shape class, and frequency-averaged absorption coefficient was used to benchmark 28 regression pipelines under leakage-safe fivefold cross-validation. A smooth Maa-inspired prior, monotone in porosity and saturating in thickness ratio, was combined with residual learning. Gaussian-process (GP) variants were the strongest single learners, with the Matérn-kernel GP and physics-informed (PI) residual GP both achieving root mean square error = 0.138 and R2 = 0.763. Physics-informed Gaussian-process (PI-GP) posteriors provided near-nominal 95% coverage (0.945; mean width = 0.485), whereas split-conformal intervals were more conservative (coverage = 0.970; mean width = 0.573). Measured impedance-tube spectra for six additively manufactured circular MPPs using the Cavity 1 configuration were added as independent validation data. All measured Cavity 1 absorption values fell within the GP and conformal 95% intervals, supporting uncertainty consistency while revealing point-prediction discrepancies associated with unmodeled cavity, fabrication, mounting, and layout effects.© 2026 Acoustical Society of America.
Latent variables derived through factor analysis reveal the underlying biological traits (UBT) in organisms. However, research on UBT development and genomic applications in beef cattle is limited. This study aimed to model previously identified economically important UBT in genome-wide association studies (GWAS) using univariate and multivariate approaches. Data on 35 traits related to the body size, reproduction, and carcass characteristics from 297 admixed beef heifers were analyzed using two models. Due to the sample-size constraints, the two models utilized were: 1) all traits included (n = 161) and 2) optimized record numbers by segregating the reproductive and body size traits (n = 297) from carcass traits (n = 161). The UBT identified from a prior study included body size (BS) and body composition (BC) in model 1 and BS, ovary size (OS), and yield grade (YG) in model 2, along with non-contributing but economically relevant traits such as body density (DENS) and intra-muscular fat (IMF). Genotypically adjusted causal networks showed that BS influenced BC (model 1) and OS (model 2). Multi-trait and structural equation modeling (SEM) GWAS approaches were used to integrate BS with BC and OS, while univariate modeling was used for unrelated UBT and direct traits, such as YG, IMF, and DENS. Across all the approaches, 1,911 SNP from nine different regions were identified and mapped to 98 features, including genes, pseudogenes, and multiple non-coding and translational RNA. Enrichment analysis highlighted extracellular matrix-receptors, HERC family genes in cellular growth, desmosomes in morphogenesis, and energy metabolism related to PIGY genes. Genes linked to muscle and carcass traits, including FAM184B, NCAPG, and LCORL, were also identified. The heritability of UBT (0.46-0.84) was higher than that of individual traits, particularly for reproductive and carcass-related traits. This study provides insights into the relationships of body and carcass-oriented traits in admixed beef heifers that are directly relevant to phenotyping and genetic evaluations being conducted in the beef industry.Copyright © 2026 Anas, Zhao, Yu, Dahlen, Swanson, Ringwall and Hulsman Hanna.
Primary chondrocytes often lose matrix-forming capacity during in vitro expansion, limiting scalable cartilage engineering. Here, we examined aging-independent regulation of chondrogenic function during long-term expansion of primary auricular chondrocytes and sought molecular features associated with late-passage functional decline.Mouse auricular chondrocytes (mACs) were serially expanded in 2D culture up to passage 40 or 50 (P50) under high- or low-seeding conditions. Proliferation, morphology, and senescence status were assessed by growth curves, phase-contrast imaging, and SA-β-gal staining. Chondrogenic capacity was evaluated using 3D pellet culture and toluidine blue staining. Bulk RNA sequencing of matched 2D and 3D samples was followed by PCA, differential expression, and pathway enrichment analyses. Key transcriptional signatures were validated by RT-qPCR in mouse auricular chondrocytes.Both seeding conditions supported sustained proliferation across extended passaging. Although not immortalized, mACs maintained stable proliferation for more than P 50 with minimal senescence-associated features, exhibiting cell line-like proliferative behavior. Despite preserved growth, proteoglycan-rich matrix production declined at P50. Transcriptomic analyses identified culture dimensionality as the dominant source of variance, with 2D cultures showing passage-dependent drift and 3D pellets retaining a more stable chondrogenic profile. Cross-comparisons identified a conserved nine-gene decline module (Gpx7, Krba1, Plxdc2, Ptgr2, Rarres1, Pxdc1, Ctsh, Pigh, and Diras2), which was validated by RT-qPCR. Enrichment analyses indicated coordinated attenuation of adhesion-, extracellular-, and differentiation-related programs at late passages.Auricular chondrocytes exhibit cell line-like proliferative capacity with limited senescence activation while progressively losing matrix-forming competence at ultra-late passages. A conserved nine-gene decline module provides molecular benchmarks for passage-resolved assessment and may inform optimization of scalable auricular cartilage manufacturing.© 2026 The Author(s).
The incidence of colorectal cancer (CRC) is closely associated with prolonged exposure to fine particulate matter (PM 2.5) and tobacco carcinogens, 4-methylnitrosamino-l-3-pyridyl-butanone (NNK). However, due to a lack of understanding of its intricate pathological processes, there is currently no approved clinical medication or successful treatment plan. Also, tobacco carcinogens and PM 2.5 are implicated in the progression of CRC by the onset of a metabolic disorder. Nonetheless, direct evidence connecting the metabolic disorder to NNK/PM 2.5-mediated CRC development has yet to be developed.We investigated CRC cells treated with NNK/PM 2.5 to investigate the function of metabolic alterations in CRC (NNK/PM 2.5)-induced tumor growth. The results were verified using human CRC cancer samples, cell-derived xenografts, and online survival analysis. To clarify the mechanism of regulation of changes in metabolism, metabolic tracking, western blotting, massarray assay, real-time PCR, and reporter assays were conducted. SPSS version 20.0 or GraphPad Prism version 10.0 were used for all statistical analyses.Our research indicates that NNK/PM 2.5, elicit characteristics of metabolic syndrome, notably hyperglycemia, decrease in reactive oxygen species (ROS) contents, and a substantial upregulation of anti-oxidative stress-related gene expression, thereby facilitating the progression of colon cancer in a murine model. By increasing the expression of glucose transporter 3 (GLUT3) and glucose transporter 1 (GLUT1), NNK/PM 2.5 increases the uptake of glucose in tumor-associated macrophages. This leads to the increased expression of insulin-like growth factor 2 (IGF2), which in turn paracrinely hyper-activates the insulin receptor (IR) in colorectal cancer cells, facilitating its nuclear import. Through IR/NPM1 mediation, nuclear IR and nucleophosmin (NPM1) interact to activate the CD274 promoter and produce programmed death ligand-1 (PD-L1). Inhibiting glycolysis, diminishing macrophages, or obstructing PD-L1 impedes NNK/PM 2.5-induced colorectal cancer growth. Analysis of patient samples and public databases reveals elevated expression of tumoral PD-L1 and phosphorylated insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor/insulin receptor (pIGF-1R/IR), as well as elevated levels of IGF2 and GLUT1 in tumor-associated macrophages, suggesting possible negative prognostic biomarkers for patients with colorectal cancer.Our results provided new insights into the mechanisms of intestinal cancer progresses by paracrine IR-PD-L1 signaling, which is aided by the deregulation of oxidative stress and macrophage communication brought on by smoking carcinogen-induced the metabolic syndrome.© 2026. The Author(s).
Early pregnancy screening to identify high-risk women for targeted prevention is effective for reducing pregnancy complications. Placental biomarkers, including PlGF and PAPP-A, are linked to adverse outcomes, yet their combined predictive value for pregnancy complications remains unclear. Here, a retrospective cohort study was conducted to assess first-trimester prediction models incorporating PlGF, PAPP-A, and maternal factors for major obstetric complications.This was a retrospective cohort study using data that were prospectively collected during first-trimester screening. A cohort study was conducted at the International Peace Maternity and Child Health Hospital of China Welfare Institution (Shanghai, China) from December 2021 to October 2022. A total of 4046 participants were recruited during the first-trimester screening, excluding those with miscarriages and those without delivery data. In our routine screening, all pregnant women were tested for placental growth factor (PlGF) and pregnancy-associated plasma protein A (PAPP-A). The mean arterial pressure (MAP) and uterine artery pulsatility index (UTPI) were also measured in accordance with the Fetal Medicine Foundation guidelines, along with maternal characteristics and medical history collected via face-to-face interviews. Multivariable logistic regression was used for model development. Model performance was evaluated by the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC).Among 4046 initially recruited participants, data from 3910 participants regarding fetal growth restriction (FGR), gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM), placenta previa and preterm birth (PTB) were analyzed. For the PE analysis, a subgroup of 1,588 women with available UTPI measurements was evaluated. The best models for predicting FGR were the indicator height, PAPP-A levels, and PlGF levels, with an AUC of 0.742 (95% CI: 0.633-0.851). Regarding GDM prediction, the model including BMI and PAPP-A levels had the best AUC (0.667, 95% CI: 0.622-0.713). With respect to placenta previa prediction, the model including age and PlGF levels had the best AUC (0.765, 95% CI: 0.588-0.941). For PTB, indicators such as the PlGF multiples of the median (MoM), PAPP-A, type I diabetes and systemic lupus erythematosus had the best performance, with an AUC of 0.665 (95% CI: 0.553-0.776). For PE screening using the Fetal Medicine Foundation (FMF) competing-risk model (PAPP-A, PIGF, MAP, and UTPI), the model achieved an AUC of 0.847 for preterm PE (< 37 weeks), with a detection rate of 50.00%, and an AUC of 0.777 for term PE (≥ 37 weeks), with a detection rate of 95.12% at the recommended risk cutoff of 1 in 100.First-trimester screening using PlGF, PAPP-A, and maternal factors shows preliminary associations with common obstetric complications, suggesting the potential utility of these biomarkers in early risk stratification, providing a proof-of-concept tool for early risk stratification and improved management of high-risk pregnancies to reduce maternal and fetal morbidity. However, these models require validation in larger, more diverse populations before clinical consideration.© 2026. The Author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42224200
Skipped: PubMed ID 41827365 is a review article
Intravitreal anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) agents improve visual acuity in diabetic macular edema (DME). However, resistance, non-response, or recurrence occurs in many patients. Predictive biomarkers for anti-VEGF response are lacking. We aim to identify cytokine markers predictive of anti-VEGF response and elucidate cytokines involved in poor-response DME pathogenesis.A luminex assay was carried out to measure the concentration of cytokines in the aqueous humor. A predictive model based on baseline cytokines was constructed in a discovery set that comprised 46 responders and 20 non-responders. In addition, an analysis of baseline cytokines of 15 responders and 12 non-responders was conducted as a validation set. The performance of the nomogram was determined using the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) and Hosmer-Lemeshow goodness of fit test.Baseline concentrations of angiogenesis-related cytokines VEGF (P < 0.0001), placenta growth factor (PIGF) (P < 0.0001), angiopoietin-2 (Ang-2) (P < 0.0001), inflammatory factor interleukin-6 (IL-6) (P < 0.0001), IL-8 (P < 0.0001), chemokine monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) (P < 0.0001), and adhesion factor intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) (P < 0.001) were significantly increased compared to controls. The prediction nomogram model included five baseline cytokines: VEGF, IL-6, Ang-2, MCP-1, and ICAM-1 were constructed. The AUC for the discovery set was 0.85 (95% CI: 0.74-0.96) and for the internal validation was 0.84, indicating that the prediction model has good predictive accuracy. The Hosmer-Lemeshow goodness of fit test showed good model calibration (P = 0.295). The levels of Ang-2 (P = 0.0042), IL-6 (P < 0.0001), IL-8 (P < 0.0001), MCP-1 (P < 0.0001), and PIGF (P < 0.0001) were still significantly increased at the 6-month timepoint after multiple injections of anti-VEGF drugs for non-response group patients.The baseline cytokine-based model helped to assess the individual probability of response to anti-VEGF therapy. There are cytokines beyond VEGF that are involved in the pathogenesis of DME, therapeutic regimens targeting these cytokines may improve the visual acuity and reduce macular edema.© 2026. The Author(s).
Long tails trigger tail biting in pigs and increase the risk of flystrike infections in sheep. Tail docking has been a common management practice in both species for decades, but increasingly conflicts with legal animal welfare guidelines. Sustainable solutions require breeding strategies targeting shorter tails. In consequence, the aims were to conduct whole-genome sequencing (WGS)-based genome-wide association studies (GWAS) and comparative genomic analyses (CGA) to explore functional elements influencing tail traits. Phenotypically divergent experimental populations of pigs and sheep were established through unified selection and mating experiments. Tail traits included tail length (TL) measured at birth, and tail abnormalities (TA) assessed radiographically at 14 weeks of age. WGS-based GWAS identified a significant locus on SSC18 in pigs and suggestive loci for TL in both species, which, together with previously reported loci for TA, were further analyzed by CGA. The genomic windows of the significant locus on SSC18 in pigs and the TL GWAS locus on OAR4 in sheep were found to be conserved, harboring six common genes with predicted functional variants. These variants were jointly associated with TL (Plm < 0.05) in both species in linear regression models adjusted for sex, age of the dam, body length, and body weight. In other GWAS locus windows (±1 Mb), species-specific TL candidate genes were identified in sheep (HOXB13, MUC5B, EPB41L3, MTCL1, PIEZO2, MPPE1, and LOXHD1) and in pigs (KNL1, DISP2, SPRED1, TGFB2, and HAND1), each harboring associated putative functional variants. For TA, sheep-specific candidates (PGM2, LRRC66, CRACD, LOC105601916, and SH2D4B) and pig-specific candidates (MYOT, TMCO6, and PCDHAC2) were revealed using logistic regression models (Pglm < 0.05). GO analyses of candidate genes predicted shared biological processes between sheep and pigs, whereas pathway analyses indicated that common carbohydrate metabolism pathways, along with species-specific immune and inflammatory signaling, and pig-specific TGF-β signaling and endochondral ossification, may contribute to tail length variation and abnormalities. These findings provided deeper insights into the genetic basis of differential embryonic tail morphogenesis and perinatal tail development across species.Copyright: © 2026 Zhang et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) increases the risk of complications such as gestational hypertension, genital tract infections, preterm birth, and adverse perinatal outcomes including fetal distress and macrosomia. Identifying serum biomarkers in early pregnancy may aid in prevention and improve maternal and fetal outcomes.To evaluate the predictive value of placental growth factor (PIGF) and soluble FMS-like tyrosine kinase-1 (sFlt-1) for GDM in early pregnancy.A retrospective case-control study was conducted including 140 pregnant women screened for GDM in early pregnancy. Seventy women diagnosed with GDM formed the observation group, and 70 women with normal glucose levels served as controls. Inclusion criteria were singleton pregnancies with complete laboratory data and delivery follow-up at the same hospital. Primary outcomes were serum PIGF and sFlt-1 levels, and their predictive value for GDM was assessed.Pre-pregnancy BMI, fasting plasma glucose, HbA1c, HOMA-IR, and sFlt-1 levels were significantly higher in the observation group, while PIGF levels were lower. Pre-pregnancy BMI, PIGF, and sFlt-1 were independent predictors of GDM (P < 0.05). The incidence of gestational hypertension, preterm birth, genital tract infection, and macrosomia was higher in the observation group (P < 0.05). PIGF was negatively correlated with HOMA-IR, whereas sFlt-1 showed a positive correlation (P < 0.05). The area under the curve (AUC) for predicting GDM was 0.875 (95% CI: 0.818-0.932) for PIGF and 0.824 (95% CI: 0.752-0.897) for sFlt-1.Lower PIGF and higher sFlt-1 levels in early pregnancy may be associated with GDM development and adverse outcomes. These biomarkers demonstrate potential predictive value, but large-scale prospective studies are required to confirm clinical utility.© 2026 Wu and Liu.
We conducted a two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) study including only European men to test for a causal relationship between serum urate (SU), gout, and prostate cancer. Using genome-wide association (GWAS) data, we generated instrumental variables (IVs) associated with gout and urate. These included 20 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with gout but not urate (non-hyperuricemia compartment of gout) and four SNPs from loci containing urate transporter genes for an IV representing urate levels. MR methods included the inverse-variance weighted (IVW) method, MR-Egger regression, and the weighted median method. The non-hyperuricemia compartment of gout IV showed a causal effect of gout on prostate cancer (weighted median: p = 0.01). In contrast, the SU IV showed no evidence of a causal effect of SU on prostate cancer (IVW: p = 0.83; weighted median: p = 0.97). MR-Egger showed no evidence of horizontal pleiotropy (gout: p = 0.33; urate: p = 0.80). Loci contributing most strongly to the non-hyperuricemia causal effect included three genes: IL1R1, IL1RN, and SLC30A5. There was no evidence of a causal relationship between prostate cancer and gout or SU. In conclusion, MR analysis in a European male population found evidence of a causal relationship between the non-hyperuricemia compartment of gout and prostate cancer. Implication of the IL1R1 and IL1RN genes directly implicates the gouty inflammation pathway in prostate cancer.
Glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) serves as an anchor protein for human cells, and genetic defects in this protein can lead to inherited GPI deficiency (IGD). Intellectual disability, distinctive facial features, epilepsy, hyperphosphatasia, and multiple organ anomalies characterize IGD, with severity varying based on the affected genes. A 53-day-old male, born to nonconsanguineous parents, presented with poor feeding and fever. The patient exhibited unique facial characteristics, hyperphosphatasia, and reduced complement levels. During his 2.5-month admission, he exhibited recurrent fever and infection. Whole-genome sequencing revealed compound heterozygous variants in the PIGW gene, c.[173T>C];[617_620del], p.[Leu58Pro];[Val206Glyfs*3]. Flow cytometry indicated a marked decrease in CD16 expression on granulocytes, leading to the diagnosis of IGD in the patient. This patient exhibited persistent low complement levels (CH50, C3, and C4) alongside elevated immune complexes, which may reflect complement activation secondary to infections. Transient complement abnormalities of this kind may occasionally accompany recurrent infections in patients with GPI biosynthesis defect 11. This case broadens the phenotypic spectrum of PIGW-related IGD and highlights the importance of further research to clarify the relationship between infection, complement activation, and GPI biosynthesis.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus) is a major foodborne pathogen in the dairy industry that produces heat-stable enterotoxins capable of surviving pasteurization. However, rapid, pathogen-specific, and instrument-free field detection remains a significant challenge. Here, we report a bifunctional zeolitic imidazolate framework-8 (ZIF-8) nanoprobe (RZF) for portable ratiometric detection of S. aureus. The probe exploits the spatially distinct interior and exterior of a single ZIF-8 nanoparticle: Ru(bpy)32+ is encapsulated within the pore interior as a photostable reference fluorophore, while 6-carboxyfluorescein (FAM)-labeled single-stranded DNA (ssDNA-FAM) is adsorbed onto the positively charged outer surface, where its fluorescence is quenched via Förster resonance energy transfer (FRET). This spatially decoupled architecture overcomes the ratio-control limitation of conventional co-encapsulation strategies, enabling independent optimization of the reference and responsive channels within a single nanoparticle. Upon bacterial lysis, released adenosine triphosphate (ATP) serves both as a biochemical indicator of viable bacteria and as a competitive Zn2+ ligand, triggering ZIF-8 disintegration and selectively restoring FAM fluorescence at 514 nm while leaving the Ru(bpy)32+ emission at 594 nm unchanged, thereby generating a self-calibrating ratiometric signal. The nanoprobe is immobilized within an agarose hydrogel kit, enabling smartphone-based RGB readout without cold-chain storage. Upstream immunomagnetic separation using Fe3O4-pIgG probes confers pathogen specificity through protein A recognition. The integrated platform achieves a limit of detection of 6 CFU/mL, with recoveries of 99.72-100.63% in spiked milk. This spatially decoupled single-particle probe strategy establishes a generalizable and reproducible design principle for ratiometric sensing in resource-limited food safety monitoring.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Polyvalent IgG (pIgG/IVIg), derived from thousands of donors, exerts broad immunomodulatory effects; however, its direct cellular targets and genome-wide regulatory impacts remain incompletely defined.Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from 20 healthy donors were cultured for 72 h with pIgG (100 µg/mL) or mock conditions. Cell viability, phenotype, memory subsets, chemokine receptors, and intracellular cytokines were assessed by flow cytometry. Differential gene expression, miRNA/sRNA profiles, and pathway enrichments were analyzed by RNA-seq and small-RNA sequencing. Proteome-wide IgG binding was mapped using human proteome microarrays across lymphoid subsets, and pathogen-derived linear epitope recognition was evaluated using a 4,345-epitope infectious-disease microarray.pIgG preserved PBMC viability but significantly modulated immune function: it reduced IL-17⁺ CD4⁺ T cells and tissue-resident memory T cells, decreased IL-4⁺ CD8⁺ T cells, enhanced IFN-γ⁺ γδ T cells, downregulated CCR5 and CCR6, and expanded IL-10⁺ B cells while reducing IL-13⁺ and IL-17⁺ B cells. Transcriptomic analysis revealed 4,820 upregulated and 2,160 downregulated genes, with enrichment of MHC class II and TCR-signaling pathways and selective modulation of cytokine, chemokine, CD, and HLA genes. Innate sensors-including TLR4, TLR8, and NLR4-were downregulated. Small-RNA analysis identified 19 differentially expressed miRNAs and 79 novel sRNAs, indicating epigenetic remodeling. Proteome-wide profiling detected ~ 130 IgG-recognized proteins per lymphocyte subset and 180 shared targets enriched in cytosolic, vesicular, and endocytic pathways. Pathogen-epitope profiling identified 948 recognized sequences from 56 viruses, 21 bacteria, and 12 parasites.pIgG functions as a multilayered immunoregulator that attenuates Th17-associated inflammation, promotes IL-10-mediated regulatory circuits, and modulates receptor signaling and antigen-processing pathways. These findings underscore its potential for broad therapeutic immunomodulation.© 2026. The Author(s).
The distinction of drug-induced liver injury (DILI), drug-induced autoimmune-like hepatitis (DI-ALH), and autoimmune hepatitis (AIH) can be challenging due to overlapping clinical characteristics. Recently, polyreactive immunoglobulin G (pIgG) was identified as a novel biomarker in AIH. This retrospective study aimed to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of pIgG to distinguish between AIH, DI-ALH, and DILI and thus identify patients in need of immunosuppression.Samples from 120 patients (AIH = 81, DI-ALH = 16, DILI = 23) were compared to a control group (non-AIH-non-DILI-liver disease = 596 and healthy controls = 190).No patient in the DILI-group but 98% in the AIH- and 94% in the DI-ALH-group received immunosuppressive treatment. PIgG levels were significantly higher in the AIH-group 1.9 normalised arbitrary units (nAU) compared to DILI (1.1 nAU, p < 0.001), non-AIH-non-DILI-LD (1.0 nAU, p < 0.001) and healthy controls (0.27 nAU, p < 0.001). PIgG levels for DI-ALH (1.7nAU) were significantly higher compared to DILI (p = 0.044) and non-AIH-non-DILI-LD and healthy controls (both p < 0.001). Highest AUC was seen for pIgG (0.818) compared to conventional autoantibodies. The overall accuracy of pIgG to distinguish AIH from DILI (74%) and liver injuries with and without the need for immunosuppression (73%) was like that of ANA (71%/73%) and SMA (74%/69%) at cut-offs of ≥ 1/40. PIgG was positive in up to 79% of patients with AIH that were negative for a conventional autoantibody and was positive in 90% of DI-ALH cases compared to 25% in DILI that were caused by the same drugs.PIgG may complement current serologic tests to identify patients with liver injury in need of immunosuppressive treatment.© 2026 The Author(s). Liver International published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Zinc is essential for cellular homeostasis and acts both as a structural element and a secondary messenger in intracellular signalling. While the role of SLC39 (former ZIP) family transporters in breast cancer biology is intensively studied, the signalling function of SLC30 family transporters (former ZnT) remains insufficiently explored. This study investigates the involvement of SLC30 transporters in oestrogen receptor-positive (ER+) breast cancer. Bioinformatic and experimental analyses revealed that SLC30 transporters, particularly SLC30A1, SLC30A5, and SLC30A9, regulate the PTP/AKT/ESR1 pathway, contributing to hormone-independent ESR1 activation. Zn-dependent inhibition of PTP phosphatases modulates kinase signalling, promoting proliferation. Notably, high SLC30 expression correlates with improved survival, but serves as a negative prognostic marker under tamoxifen treatment. Here, we evidence that ESR1 directly represses SLC30 transcription and that zinc transporters form a regulatory feedback loop sustaining ER+ breast tumour progression. These findings position SLC30 transporters as active participants in signalling cascades, offering novel targets for therapeutic intervention in ER+ breast cancer.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Pathogenic variants in PIGG (phosphatidylinositol glycan anchor biosynthesis, class G) disrupt glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchoring of cell-surface proteins. Recently, biallelic PIGG variants have been linked to motor neuropathy with conduction block and temporal dispersion, suggesting a role for defective GPI anchoring in peripheral nerve function. We describe a 27-year-old woman carrying a homozygous nonsense variant in PIGG, c.1515G>A (p.Trp505*), presenting with continuous lower limb myokymia, gait ataxia, tremor and distal weakness since early adolescence. Electrophysiological evaluation revealed widespread myokymic discharges on electromyography, consistent with peripheral nerve hyperexcitability, and a pure motor polyneuropathy with temporal dispersion. This case report expands the clinical spectrum of PIGG-related disorders by identifying peripheral nerve hyperexcitability as a defining feature. The potential mechanistic link between defective GPI anchoring and neuronal hyperexcitability mediated through impaired function of GPI-anchored proteins such as contactin-1 and contactin-2 offers a compelling hypothesis connecting peripheral neuropathy, hyperexcitability, and cerebellar dysfunction.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Avatar-based communication in virtual worlds offers a crucial space for online social support. Such support can be facilitated through avatar customization. However, most platforms, designed primarily for entertainment and attracting numerous users, have not fully examined the relationship between avatar customization and social support. This study provides an integrated explanation of the interplay among avatar customization, avatar identification, and online social support and proposes a practical approach for enhancing user well-being. Drawing on data from a two-wave longitudinal survey with a 9-month interval, conducted among Japanese users of three major avatar communication services (Second Life, ZEPETO, and Pigg Party), we analyzed the longitudinal relationships between these factors. A cross-lagged panel analysis revealed a positive feedback loop wherein avatar identification and perceived online social support mutually and positively reinforce each other over time. More frequent avatar customization at Wave 1 predicted higher avatar identification at Wave 2, suggesting that customization can serve as an upstream starting point for this feedback loop. Avatar identification and perceived online social support were positively associated with subsequent user satisfaction on most metrics. In addition, mediation analyses indicated significant indirect effects of avatar customization on perceived online social support and user satisfaction via avatar identification. By demonstrating how these concepts work together, our findings provide a practical strategy for service providers. By encouraging avatar customization-a measure that aligns naturally with platform operations, such as item releases and events-companies can initiate a positive feedback loop between avatar identification and online social support. This can enhance user well-being by increasing social support while potentially supporting platform success via higher user satisfaction, creating a win-win scenario.
The diagnosis of juvenile autoimmune hepatitis (AIH) is challenging given its heterogeneous presentation. Autoantibodies, typically detected by immunofluorescence testing (IFT), together with liver histology, represent key diagnostic features. Polyreactive immunoglobulin G (pIgG) has recently emerged as a complementary biomarker in AIH. This retrospective multicentre study aimed to compare ELISA-based autoantibody testing and IFT on HEp-2 cells with the gold standard of IFT on rodent tissue sections in children with autoimmune and non-autoimmune liver diseases.Autoantibody detection was performed centrally at Hannover Medical School using three commercial antinuclear antibody (ANA) ELISAs, one commercial F-actin ELISA, one in-house pIgG ELISA, and IFT on HEp-2 cells, in comparison to the gold standard of IFT on rodent tissue sections. Samples from children with AIH (n = 69), autoimmune sclerosing cholangitis (AISC; n = 13) and other liver diseases (n = 120) were analysed from nine European centres.The AUCs for the detection of AIH/AISC were moderate to good for ANA detection by IFT (gold standard of rodent tissue AUC: 0.748; HEp-2 AUC: 0.756) and were comparable to ELISA-based detection (0.622-0.772). Anti-smooth muscle antibody (SMA) IFT on rodent tissue yielded an AUC of 0.694. Specificity was increased to 100% by including the SMA staining pattern of vessels, glomeruli and tubules. ELISA-based quantification of anti-F-actin (AUC = 0.868) and pIgG (AUC = 0.844) showed the highest AUCs. While the majority of F-actin-positive children were pIgG-positive (80.3%), pIgG was also detected in 52.4% of F-actin-negative children with AIH.ELISA-based assays provide reliable ANA detection comparable to IFT. Anti-F-actin and pIgG ELISAs showed the highest accuracy for predicting juvenile AIH/AISC and may complement existing diagnostic criteria.Autoimmune hepatitis (AIH) and autoimmune sclerosing cholangitis (AISC) are rare paediatric liver diseases that can be difficult to distinguish from other hepatopathies. Autoantibody testing is central to diagnosis, yet paediatric performance across platforms has been poorly standardised and sparsely reported. In this multicentre comparison (202 sera from nine expert centres across eight European countries), indirect immunofluorescence (IFT) on rodent tissue showed suboptimal discrimination at the commonly advocated 1:20 cut-off, whereas accuracy for ANA and SMA improved markedly at 1:320. ANA detection by IFT on HEp-2 cells and by ELISA was comparable to rodent tissue IFT. ELISAs for F-actin and pIgG achieved the highest AUCs for identifying AIH/AISC and may complement current diagnostics. Substantial inter-platform discordance for ANA underscores the need for harmonisation. Collectively, these data support the use of multiple validated platforms with platform-appropriate cut-offs in paediatric AIH/AISC serology and support updates to diagnostic algorithms to improve diagnostic timeliness and reliability.© 2025 The Author(s).
Hyperphosphatasia with mental retardation syndrome (HPMRS) is a rare genetic disorder characterized by developmental delay/intellectual disability, seizures, dysmorphic features, and diverse congenital anomalies with elevated alkaline phosphatase. It is an autosomal recessive disease caused by homozygous or compound heterozygous mutations in the PIGV , PIGY , PIGO , PGAP2 , PIGW , and PGAP3 genes, which are involved in glycosylphosphatidylinositol biosynthesis. Mutations in the PGAP3 gene cause HPMRS type 4.Copyright © 2026 Annals of Indian Academy of Neurology.
Thirty genes are involved in the biosynthesis and modification of glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored proteins. Defects in these genes cause inherited GPI deficiency, whose main clinical features include intellectual disability, developmental delay, and intractable seizures, and sometimes hyperphosphatasia and multiple congenital anomalies. The mechanisms of its systemic, especially neurological, manifestations largely remain unclear, and no fundamental therapy has yet been established. In this study, we report the development of effective adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated gene therapy using a mouse model of inherited GPI deficiency caused by phosphatidylinositol glycan anchor biosynthesis class O (PIGO) mutations, with the aim of developing gene therapy applicable to human patients. By optimizing AAV vectors with the most effective and safest promoter, we achieved significant amelioration of neuronal phenotype and growth impairment, with no cases of liver cancer observed. We further determined the optimal administration route and therapeutic dose required for effective systemic delivery. These results provide proof of concept for the therapeutic efficacy of AAV-based gene replacement therapy for inherited GPI deficiency.© 2026 The Author(s).
This study investigates the clinical features and genetic mutations associated with hyperphosphatasia with impaired intellectual development syndrome-2 (HPIDS2).A retrospective analysis was performed on two HPIDS2 cases treated at the Department of Rehabilitation, Nanjing Children's Hospital, from 2019 to 2023. Clinical features and genetic characteristics were summarized through a literature review.Genetic testing showed compound heterozygous variations in the PIGO gene for both patients (Patient 1: c.[2612A>C];[2361dup]; Patient 2: c.[2510T>A];[693C>G]), with c.[2510T>A] and c.[693C>G] identified as novel mutations.Global developmental delay, with or without hyperphosphatemia, may indicate HPIDS2. The level of alkaline phosphatase elevation could reflect disease severity and prognosis. Our cases expand the known pathogenic variations in the PIGO gene and phenotypic spectrum of HPIDS2.© 2025 Wang, Zhao, Zhao, Ding, Zhu and Li.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 40514788
No abstract found for PubMed ID 40320634
Parkinson's disease (PD) represents one of the most frequent neurodegenerative disorders for which clinically useful biomarkers remain to be identified and validated. Here, we adopted an untargeted omics approach to disclose lipidomic, metabolomic and proteomic alterations in plasma and in dermal fibroblasts of PD patients carrying mutations in TMEM175 gene. We revealed a wide dysregulation of lysosome, autophagy, and mitochondrial pathways in these patients, supporting a role of this channel in regulating these cellular processes. The most significant altered lipid classes were Fatty acyls, Glycerophospholipids and Phosphosphingolipids. The plasma level of Phosphatidylcholines (PC) and Phosphatidylinositol (PI) 34:1 significantly correlated with an earlier age at onset of the disease in TMEM175 patients (p = 0.008; p = 0.006). In plasma we also observed altered amino acids metabolic pathways in PD patients. We highlighted that increased level of L-glutamate strongly correlated (p < 0.001) with the severity of motor and non-motor symptoms in PD_TMEM175 patients. In dermal fibroblasts, we disclosed alterations of proteins involved in lipids biosynthesis (PAG15, PP4P1, GALC, FYV1, PIGO, PGPS1, PLPP1), in the insulin pathway (IGF2R), in mitochondrial metabolism (ACD10, ACD11, ACADS) and autophagy (RAB7L). Interestingly, we quantified 43 lysosomal or lysosomal-related proteins, which were differentially modulated between TMEM175 patients and controls. Integrative correlation analysis of proteome and lipidome of PD_TMEM175 cellular models identified a strong positive correlation of 13 proteins involved in biosynthetic processes with PC and Ceramides. Altogether, these data provide novel insights into the molecular and metabolic alterations underlying TMEM175 mutations and may be relevant for PD prediction, diagnosis and treatment.© 2025. The Author(s).
The glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) is a glycol-lipid that anchors several proteins to the cell surface. The GPI-anchor pathway is crucial for the correct function of proteins involved in cell function, and it is fundamental in early neurogenesis and neural development. The PIG gene family is a group of genes involved in this pathway with six genes identified so far, and defects in these genes are associated with a rare inborn metabolic disorder manifesting with a spectrum of clinical phenotypes in newborns and children. Among them, the PIGO gene encodes for phosphatidylinositol glycan anchor biosynthesis class O protein (PIGO), an enzyme participating in this cascade, and the loss of its function often leads to a severe clinical picture characterized by global developmental delay, seizures, Hirschsprung disease, and other congenital malformations. To date, 19 patients with confirmed PIGO deficiency have been described in the literature with a host of clinical and radiological manifestations. We report a case of a male term newborn with two compound heterozygous variants of the PIGO genes, presenting with encephalopathy, drug-resistant epilepsy, and gastrointestinal abnormalities. Brain MRI first showed diffusion restriction in the ponto-medullary tegmentum, ventral mesencephalon, superior cerebellar peduncles, cerebral peduncles, and globi pallidi. This pattern of lesion distribution has been described as part of the neuroradiological spectrum of PIG genes-related disorders. However, after one month of life, he also showed a previously undescribed MRI pattern characterized by extensive cortical and subcortical involvement of the brain hemispheres. The presence of two different mutations in both the PIGO genes may have been responsible for the particularly severe clinical picture and worse outcome, leading to the death of the newborn in the sixth month of life despite therapeutic attempts. This case expands the neuroradiological spectrum and may bring new insights on glycosylation-related disorders brain manifestations.
Recently, mutations have been identified in six genes (PIGA, PIGY, PIGO, PGAP2, PIGW and PGAP3) encoding proteins in the Glycosyl phosphatidylinositol(GPI)-anchor-synthesis pathway in individuals with hyperphosphatasia with impaired intellectual development syndrome(HPMRS). Reports involving the rare pathogenic gene, post-GPI attachment to proteins 2 (PGAP2) are quite limited. In this study, we reported two patients with PGAP2 variants related neurodevelopmental disorders from Asian population. The proband, onset of epileptic spasms at 5 months, concurrently with global developmental dalay, facial malformation and elevated alkaline phosphatase. His younger sister, onset of epileptic spasms at 2 months, having similar clinical features as the proband. Their phenotypes are consistent with PGAP2 related diseases. The two missense variants [c.686C>T (p.Ala229Val) and c.677C>T (p.Thr226Ile)] in PGAP2 gene found in this family were segregation with the disease, while c.677C>T (p.Thr226Ile) was a novel variant. All the two patients showed a positive response to ACTH treatment and high-dose pyridoxine. In summary, this study contributes to expanding the pathogenic variant spectrum of PGAP2 related HPMRS, and provides new insights into the treatment.© 2024 Pan, Ren, Chen and Li.
Biallelic variants in phosphatidylinositol glycan anchor biosynthesis, class G (PIGG) cause hypotonia, intellectual disability, seizures, and cerebellar features. We present 8 patients from 6 families with a childhood-onset motor neuropathy and neurophysiology demonstrating variable motor conduction block and temporal dispersion. All individuals had a childhood onset tremor, 5 of 8 had cerebellar involvement, and 6 of 8 had childhood febrile seizures. All individuals have biallelic PIGG variants, including the previously reported pathogenic variant Trp505*, plus 6 novel variants. Null enzyme activity is demonstrated via PIGO/PIGG double knockout system for Val339Gly and Gly19Glu, and residual activity for Trp505* due to read-through. Emm negative blood group status was confirmed in 1 family. PIGG should be considered in unsolved motor neuropathy. ANN NEUROL 2025;97:388-396.© 2024 The Author(s). Annals of Neurology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Neurological Association.
To investigate the causal relationship between 1-palmitoyl-GPG (16:0) and serous ovarian cancer (SOC), and explore the underlying mechanisms.Two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) and mediation effect analyses were employed to determine the causal effects of 1-palmitoyl-GPG (16:0) on serous ovarian cancer (SOC), focusing particularly on naive CD4+ T cell proportions as potential mediators. Single-cell RNA sequencing, immune infiltration analysis, and bulk machine learning algorithms were also integrated to examine the expression and impact of palmitoyl-CoA synthesis genes in CD4+ T cells. Lasso regression was utilized to refine the set of marker genes, and CatBoost machine learning algorithm was applied for predictive modeling. SHAP analysis was performed to interpret the model results.MR and mediation analyses indicated that 1-palmitoyl-GPG (16:0) has a causal effect on SOC, partly mediated by the proportion of naive CD4+ T cells, and partly through direct effects potentially involving metabolic gene expression (e.g., PIGB) in CD4+ T cells. Single-cell and immune infiltration analyses confirmed that key palmitoyl-CoA synthesis genes, including PIGB, were highly expressed in CD4+ T cells and may contribute to SOC both indirectly, by influencing naive CD4+ T cell proportions, and directly through metabolic modulation within CD4+ subsets. The bulk RNA-seq machine learning model showed good predictive performance on an independent validation dataset. SHAP analysis was used to interpret feature contributions, with PIGB having the greatest impact on model predictions. The immune-related genes, including upregulated PIGB, GZMA, PRF1, S100A4, and CCL5, while downregulated AHNAK and LGALS1 (except in fibroblasts). Furthermore, different patterns of gene expression were observed in different CD4+ T cell clusters, which corresponded to various developmental statuses and functional roles. We identified a causal relationship between 1-palmitoyl-GPG (16:0) and SOC, which is mediated by naive CD4+ T cells and key synthesis genes.Our findings provide new insights into the metabolic and immunological mechanisms underlying SOC, and highlight potential targets for therapeutic interventions.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Intellectual disability (ID) and epilepsy are often comorbid, but the pathways that lead to epilepsy in individuals with ID remain unclear. This study aims to explore the molecular pathways linked to epilepsy development in ID, providing insights into shared genetic mechanisms.Definitive ID-related genes were extracted from the SysNDD database, and their association with epilepsy pathways was assessed using gene set overrepresentation analysis. Enrichment was performed using Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG), Gene Ontology (GO), and Disease Ontology (DO) terms. Pathways were classified based on their relevance to epilepsy, and the involvement of specific genes was analyzed.Approximately 75% of ID-related genes were associated with epilepsy. Enriched pathways in ID-related epilepsy genes included neurotransmitter signaling, ion channel regulation, and metabolic pathways such as "nicotine addiction" and "thermogenesis." Key genes like GRIN2A, CACNA1A, and PIGB were found to be involved in multiple pathways, suggesting their potential as therapeutic targets. DO and GO terms indicated shared and distinct mechanisms between ID and epilepsy, with significant overlap in pathways such as "intellectual disability."We performed overrepresentation analyses on curated gene sets; the results are descriptive and hypothesis-generating rather than causal. These insights provide potential targets for therapeutic interventions and highlight the need for further research into the genetic underpinnings of epilepsy in this population.Thieme. All rights reserved.
Epilepsy encompasses a range of brain disorders, often accompanied by growth delay and cerebral palsy. The identification of gene variants is critical for guiding treatment strategies in patients with epilepsy. This study investigates the genetic variants in patients with early-onset epilepsy (EOE) through whole-exome sequencing (WES).DNA was extracted from peripheral blood using a standard salting-out method. Gene variants were identified using WES, and sequencing data were analyzed through a two-step approach.Among 20 subjects, WES identified two novel variants. The first variant, AP3B2 (NM_001278512.2: c.3190G > A; p. Val1064Ile), was located in exon 27 and exhibited homozygosity in the proband and heterozygosity in the parents. The second variant, PIGB (NM_004855.5: c.1664G > C; p.Ter555Serext∗54), was located in exon 12 and demonstrated a similar inheritance pattern. Notably, the PIGB variant was associated with elevated ALP levels.This study highlights the value of WES in identifying genetic variants associated with epilepsy, particularly the novel AP3B2 and PIGB variants. By focusing on these impactful findings, the study advances understanding of epilepsy genetics and emphasizes the role of WES in enabling early diagnosis, personalized treatment, and improved management strategies.© 2025 The Authors.
While disease-associated variants identified by genome-wide association studies (GWAS) most likely regulate gene expression levels, linking variants to target genes is critical to determining the functional mechanisms of these variants. Genetic effects on gene expression have been extensively characterized by expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) studies, yet data from non-European populations is limited. This restricts our understanding of disease to genes whose regulatory variants are common in European populations. While previous work has leveraged data from multiple populations to improve GWAS power and polygenic risk score (PRS) accuracy, multi-ancestry data has not yet been used to better estimate cis-genetic effects on gene expression. Here, we present a new method, Multi-Ancestry Gene Expression Prediction Regularized Optimization (MAGEPRO), which constructs robust genetic models of gene expression in understudied populations or cell types by fitting a regularized linear combination of eQTL summary data across diverse cohorts. In simulations, our tool generates more accurate models of gene expression than widely-used LASSO and the state-of-the-art multi-ancestry PRS method, PRS-CSx, adapted to gene expression prediction. We attribute this improvement to MAGEPRO's ability to more accurately estimate causal eQTL effect sizes (p < 3.98 × 10-4, two-sided paired t-test). With real data, we applied MAGEPRO to 8 eQTL cohorts representing 3 ancestries (average n = 355) and consistently outperformed each of 6 competing methods in gene expression prediction tasks. Integration with GWAS summary statistics across 66 complex traits (representing 22 phenotypes and 3 ancestries) resulted in 2,331 new gene-trait associations, many of which replicate across multiple ancestries, including PHTF1 linked to white blood cell count, a gene which is overexpressed in leukemia patients. MAGEPRO also identified biologically plausible novel findings, such as PIGB, an essential component of GPI biosynthesis, associated with heart failure, which has been previously evidenced by clinical outcome data. Overall, MAGEPRO is a powerful tool to enhance inference of gene regulatory effects in underpowered datasets and has improved our understanding of population-specific and shared genetic effects on complex traits.
Digital health interventions show promise for weight management. However, few text-based behavior change interventions have been designed to support patients receiving intragastric balloons, and none have simultaneously evaluated weight loss, psychological well-being, and behavior change despite the crucial interplay of these factors in weight management.This study aims to assess whether a health coach-led, asynchronous, text-based digital behavior change coaching intervention (DBCCI) delivered to participants receiving an intragastric balloon and its aftercare program was feasible and acceptable to participants and supported improved outcomes, including weight loss, psychological well-being, and lifestyle behavior change conducive to weight loss maintenance.This 12-month, single-arm prospective study enrolled adults aged 21 to 65 years with BMI ≥27 kg/m2 receiving a procedureless intragastric balloon (PIGB) at 5 bariatric clinics in the United Kingdom and the Netherlands. Participants received the DBCCI and the clinic-led PIGB aftercare program (remotely delivered) for 6 months after PIGB placement and then no intervention for an additional 6 months. The DBCCI was an evidence-based, personalized intervention wherein health coaches supported participants via exchanged asynchronous in-app text-based messages. Over the 12-month study, we assessed percentage of total body weight loss and psychological well-being via self-administered validated questionnaires (Warwick-Edinburgh Mental Wellbeing Scale, Generalized Anxiety Disorder Scale, Impact of Weight on Quality of Life-Lite-Clinical Trials Version, Loss of Control Over Eating Scale-Brief, Weight Efficacy Lifestyle Questionnaire-Short Form, and Barriers to Being Active Quiz). Participant engagement with and acceptability of the intervention were assessed via self-reported surveys.Overall, 107 participants (n=96, 89.7% female; mean baseline BMI 35.4, SD 5.4 kg/m2) were included in the analysis. Mean total body weight loss was 13.5% (SEM 2.3%) at the end of the DBCCI and 11.22% (SEM 2.3%) at the 12-month follow-up (P<.001). Improvements were observed for all psychological well-being measures throughout the 12 months except for the Generalized Anxiety Disorder Scale (improvement at month 1) and Barriers to Being Active Quiz (improvements at months 3 and 6). Surveys showed high levels of engagement with and acceptability of the DBCCI.This study provides evidence that the health coach-led, asynchronous, text-based DBCCI was engaging and acceptable to participants with overweight and obesity. The DBCCI, delivered alongside the PIGB and its aftercare program, supported improved weight loss outcomes and psychological well-being versus baseline and was associated with lifestyle behavior changes known to help achieve and maintain long-term weight loss and improved health outcomes. Follow-up findings suggest a potential need for longer-term, more intense coaching to focus on weight loss maintenance and support ongoing self-coaching. This could be achieved by leveraging generative artificial intelligence to provide ongoing automated behavior change coaching support to augment human-led care.ClinicalTrials.gov NCT05884606; https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT05884606.©Paul M Sacher, Emily Fulton, Victoria Rogers, Julia Wilson, Marco Gramatica, Jennifer E Dent, Edo O Aarts, David Eccleston, Jan Willem Greve, Inge Palm-Meinders, Ram Chuttani. Originally published in JMIR Formative Research (https://formative.jmir.org), 31.07.2024.
Skin sensitization assessment has progressed from the use of animal models towards the application of New Approach Methodologies (NAMs). Several skin sensitization NAMs are accepted for regulatory use, but a majority relies on submerged in vitro cell cultures that limit their applicability domain, posing challenges for testing hydrophobic chemicals and mixtures. A newly developed three-dimensional (3D) Nrf2 reporter epidermis model for skin sensitization assessment is reported. This NAM may help to overcome these limitations. The NAM combines the in vivo-like biology and exposure conditions of 3D epidermis models with the reliability, convenience, and cost-effectiveness of secreted reporter gene technology. The Keap1-Nrf2-ARE pathway was chosen as the reporter gene read-out, as it is induced by most skin sensitizers and already adopted in OECD Test guideline 442D. Immortalized human primary keratinocytes (Ker-CT) were stably transfected with the pIGB-Nrf2-SEAP vector to construct a Nrf2 reporter cell line. Ker-CT Nrf2 reporter cells showed negligible basal expression of the Secreted Embryonic Alkaline Phosphatase (SEAP) reporter, which was induced 13.5-fold by exposure to the skin sensitizer cinnamic aldehyde (CA). Co-exposure to CA and the Nrf2 inhibitor glucocorticoid clobetasol propionate significantly suppressed the CA-induced SEAP expression, confirming dependance of the SEAP expression on Nrf2 activation. Using air-liquid interface and animal constituent free culture conditions, the Ker-CT Nrf2 reporter cells differentiated to stratified 3D epidermis models with an in vivo-like skin architecture and functional skin barrier. Evaluation of a Ker-CT Nrf2 reporter cell-based 2D assay by testing 10 conventional reference chemicals showed a predictive accuracy for skin sensitization potential of 80% and 70% compared to LLNA and human data in two independent laboratories and a high intra- and interlaboratory reproducibility. Moreover, the 3D epidermis models predicted 3 sensitizing and 2 non-sensitizing reference chemicals correctly in a first proof-of-concept study. Further investigations foresee the testing of additional chemicals, including hydrophobic compounds and mixtures to confirm the potential of the 3D epidermis models to broaden the applicability domain for NAM-based skin sensitization assessment.Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The nuclear lamina (NL) plays various roles and participates in nuclear integrity, chromatin organization, and transcriptional regulation. Lamin proteins, the main components of the NL, form a homogeneous meshwork structure under the nuclear envelope. Lamins are essential, but it is unknown whether their homogeneous distribution is important for nuclear function. Here, we found that PIGB, an enzyme involved in glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) synthesis, is responsible for the homogeneous lamin meshwork in Drosophila. Loss of PIGB resulted in heterogeneous distributions of B-type lamin and lamin-binding proteins in larval muscles. These phenotypes were rescued by expression of PIGB lacking GPI synthesis activity. The PIGB mutant exhibited changes in lamina-associated domains that are large heterochromatic genomic regions in the NL, reduction of nuclear stiffness, and deformation of muscle fibers. These results suggest that PIGB maintains the homogeneous meshwork of the NL, which may be essential for chromatin distribution and nuclear mechanical properties.© 2024 Yamamoto-Hino et al.
Cryptorchidism is a hereditary anomaly characterized by the incomplete descent of one or both testicles to the scrotum. One of the challenges of this anomaly is that the retained testicle maintains its endocrine function. As a consequence, cryptorchid animals produce hormone-tainted meat in comparison to castrated animals and are likely to be more aggressive. Cryptorchidism can lead to reduced animal welfare outcomes and cause economic losses. Identifying genetic markers for cryptorchidism is an essential step toward mitigating these negative outcomes and may facilitate genome manipulation to reduce the occurrence of cryptorchidism. Attempts to identify such markers have used genome-wide association studies. Using whole-exome sequencing, we aimed to identify single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the coding regions of cryptorchid pigs and to characterize functional pathways concerning these SNPs.DNA was extracted and sequenced from 5 healthy and 5 cryptorchid animals from the Landrace breed, using the Illumina HiSeq 2500 platform. Data were pre-processed using the SeqyClean tool and further mapped against the swine reference genome (Sus scrofa 11.1) using BWA software. GATK was used to identify polymorphisms (SNPs and InDels), which were annotated using the VEP tool. Network prediction and gene ontology enrichment analysis were conducted using the Cytoscape platform, and STRING software was used for visualization.A total of 63 SNPs were identified across the genes PIGB, CCPG1, COMMD9, LDLRAD3, TRIM44, MYLPF, SEPTIN, ZNF48, TIA1, FAIM2, KRT18, FBP1, FBP2, CTSL, DAPK1, DHX8, GPR179, DEPDC1B, ENSSSCG00000049573, ENSSSCG00000016384, ENSSSCG00000022657, ENSSSCG00000038825, and ENSSSCG00000001229. Using pathway enrichment analyses and network prospection, we have identified the following significant adjusted p value threshold of 0.001 involved with the biological function pathways of estrogen signaling, cytoskeleton organization, and the pentose phosphate pathway.Our data suggest the involvement of new SNPs and genes in developing cryptorchidism in pigs. However, further studies are needed to validate our results in a larger cohort population. Variations in the GPR179 gene, with implications at the protein level, may be associated with the appearance of this anomaly in the swine. Finally, we are showing that the estrogen signaling pathway may be involved in the pathophysiological mechanisms of this congenital anomaly as previously reported in GWAS.© 2023 S. Karger AG, Basel.
Glycosylphosphatidylinositols (GPIs) are glycolipids that anchor many proteins (GPI-APs) on the cell surface. The core glycan of GPI precursor has three mannoses, which in mammals, are all modified by ethanolamine-phosphate (EthN-P). It is postulated that EthN-P on the third mannose (EthN-P-Man3) is the bridge between GPI and the protein and the second (EthN-P-Man2) is removed after GPI-protein attachment. However, EthN-P-Man2 may not be always transient, as mutations of PIGG, the enzyme that transfers EthN-P to Man2, result in inherited GPI deficiencies (IGDs), characterized by neuronal dysfunctions. Here, we show that EthN-P on Man2 is the preferential bridge in some GPI-APs, among them, the Ect-5'-nucleotidase and Netrin G2. We find that CD59, a GPI-AP, is attached via EthN-P-Man2 both in PIGB-knockout cells, in which GPI lacks Man3, and with a small fraction in wild-type cells. Our findings modify the current view of GPI anchoring and provide a mechanistic basis for IGDs caused by PIGG mutations.© 2022 The Authors.
Paroxysmal Nocturnal hemoglobinuria, PNH is usually caused by the somatic mutation of X-linked PIGA gene followed by the clonal expansion of the GPI (glycosylphosphatidylinositol) anchor defective hematopoietic stem cell clone. There are two hypotheses for the mechanism of clonal expansion, one is selection theory, in which GPI deficient cells escape from attacks of cytotoxic cells, and another is benign tumor theory in which GPI deficient cells get the additional mutations and acquire proliferative nature. Recently, we identified two types of PNH patients caused by the biallelic mutation of PIGT on chromosome 20 and PIGB on chromosome 15. Both PNH clones had the germ-line mutation in one allele and another allele was somatically mutated in a hematopoietic stem cell. Both somatic mutations were loss of heterozygosity (LOH), deletion in PIGT-PNH and copy neutral LOH (CN-LOH) in PIGB-PNH. These PNH patients had typical PNH symptoms, but they have in addition auto-inflammatory features. Unlike in PIGA-PNH cells, GPI is synthesized in PIGT-PNH cells and, since its attachment to proteins is blocked, free GPI is expressed on the cell surface. Similarly, in PIGB-PNH cells, GPI intermediates are accumulated and expressed on the cell surface. Those GPIs together with complement activation cause the inflammasome activation.
A whole-cell biosensor based on prodigiosin was developed for Hg(II) detection by screening four PigC homologs. The optimized sensor exhibited a detection limit of 0.41 nM, absolute selectivity against competing metal ions, and robust performance in tap, lake, and seawater matrices, providing a sensitive platform for environmental mercury monitoring.
Beef flavor is a trait difficult to evaluate since different senses (taste, touch, and smell) are involved in its perception. In the last 20 years, 102 Quantitative Trait Loci (QTLs), associated with the variability of different beef flavor notes, have been reported. These QTLs are spread on all chromosomes, including BTA X. In these QTL regions, 2509 genes are located and, among them, 594 are involved in the metabolic processes of lipids, proteins, and carbohydrates, the main meat components for the production of volatile substances responsible for flavor. Only 19 of these genes (ACSM2B, ACSM3, ACSM4, ACSM5, CHID1, DHCR7, EDEM3, GDE1, HEXB, IGF2, INS, NDUFAB1, PIGC, PNPLA2, PRDX6, SCNN1B, SIAE, SMG1, and UMOD) are also present in the QTL regions affecting pork flavor. The applied approach allowed us to strongly restrict the number of candidate genes to affect the variability of both beef and pork flavor.
Association studies have linked many genetic variants to a variety of phenotypes but understanding the biological mechanisms underlying these signals remains a major challenge. Since genes operate within complex networks, statistical interactions between genetic mutations that reflect biological pathways are expected to exist. However, their discovery has been hampered by the vast search space of variant combinations and the multiplicatively small expected effect sizes of interactions. To increase power, we created a test for interaction between single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and groups of other variants with a direct effect on a phenotype aggregated in a polygenic score (PGS) which can be performed for any quantitative trait. In realistic simulations, this method avoids false positives and is well powered to find interaction networks. We apply it to 97 quantitative phenotypes in European samples in the UK Biobank and identify 144 independent interactions affecting 52 different traits, including important disease risk variants at genes such as APOE, FTO or TCF7L2. We develop approaches to refine identified signals and detect 38 pairwise interactions between SNPs. These include known interactions between ABO, FUT2 and TREH affecting alkaline phosphatase levels, which are shown to be part of a larger network including PIGC and FUT6, as well as an interaction for eosinophil levels between IL33 and ALOX15, two genes whose functional interaction has recently been implicated in asthma. Finally, we propose a method to partition PGSs according to the binding sites of more than 1100 transcription factors using the HOCOMOCO motif database and test for interactions involving functionally partitioned scores. We identify 12 interactions affecting eight traits, two of which directly reflect known regulatory relationships such as that between TCF7L2 (a key regulator of glucose metabolism) and the transcription factor KDM2A, which are known to interact functionally within the Wnt signalling pathway, affecting glycated haemoglobin levels. This work substantially extends the set of known epistatic effects for human phenotypes and shows how statistical interactions can reflect biological interdependencies between genes.
PIGC encodes a protein essential for the biosynthesis of glycophosphatidylinositol-anchored proteins (GPI-APs). So far, three families with biallelic PIGC variants have been reported to exhibit developmental delay/intellectual disability and seizures. Our aim was to further elucidate the clinical and biomolecular characteristics of PIGC pathogenic or likely pathogenic variants. We established a cohort of 18 previously unreported probands. Clinical data were collected, and causative variants were identified though genome/exome sequencing. Variants were modelled in silico using AlphaFold2. Flow cytometry was performed to analyze the cell-surface expression of GPI-APs. The probands displayed a severe neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by developmental and cognitive impairment, early-onset and treatment-resistant seizures, and premature death affecting 10 out of 18 individuals (median age of 40 months, ranging from 40 days to 7 years). Additional features included brain imaging abnormalities (14/15), hypotonia (15/18), and skeletal anomalies (5/17). One patient exhibited mildly elevated alkaline phosphatase levels. All harbored biallelic PIGC variants, with 14 out of 18 of those being homozygous variants. Analysis of samples derived from probands and cellular models showed reduced cell surface levels of GPI-APs. This study confirms the association of PIGC biallelic variants with refractory seizures, severe developmental and cognitive impairments, and highlights their association with childhood-onset mortality. Additionally, it shows that dysfunctional PIGC results in defective biosynthesis of GPI-AP.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to European Society of Human Genetics.
Previous research on risk information behaviors has primarily focused on responses to a single target risk, without considering how related risks might influence information behaviors regarding the target risk. Guided by the Risk Information Seeking and Processing (RISP) model and drawing on theory and research taking a social context approach to risk communication, we developed a video-based intervention for promoting favorable antibiotic risk information behaviors that targets key predictors-including perceived risk, information insufficiency, and perceived information gathering capacity (PIGC)-theorized in RISP and addresses COVID-19 as a related risk factor. Experimentally testing the effectiveness of this video against a previously developed video that did not reference COVID-19 and a control group with no video exposure, we found that both videos increased perceived risk from antibiotics and PIGC. Relative to the original video, the extended, COVID-contextualized video led to greater knowledge about the ineffectiveness and harm of taking antibiotics for COVID-19. Results from structural equation modeling showed that knowledge about the ineffectiveness directly decreased information-avoidance intention. Knowledge about the harm, on the other hand, indirectly increased information seeking and reduced avoidance intention by heightening perceived risk, which led to negative affect and, in turn, elevated information insufficiency. In addition, information-seeking intention increased with greater PIGC. These relationships further varied by fear of COVID-19, with antibiotic risk information behaviors among high-fear individuals being more strongly influenced by COVID-related judgments than those with low fear. Implications of the findings for message designs in multirisk situations are discussed.© 2025 Society for Risk Analysis.
Quorum sensing (QS) inhibition has emerged as a promising target for directed drug design, providing an appealing strategy for developing antimicrobials, particularly against infections caused by drug-resistant pathogens. In this study, we designed and synthesized a total of 33 β-nitrostyrene derivatives using 1-nitro-2-phenylethane (NPe) as the lead compound, to target the facultative anaerobic bacterial pathogen Serratia marcescens. The QS-inhibitory effects of these compounds were evaluated using S. marcescens NJ01 and the reporter strain Chromobacterium violaceum CV026. Among the 33 new β-nitrostyrene derivatives, (E)-1-methyl-4-(2-nitrovinyl)benzene (m-NPe, compound 28) was proven to be a potent inhibitor that reduced biofilm formation of S. marcescens NJ01 by 79%. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) results revealed that treatment with m-NPe (50 μg/ml) not only enhanced the susceptibility of the formed biofilms but also disrupted the architecture of biofilms by 84%. m-NPe (50 μg/ml) decreased virulence factors in S. marcescens NJ01, reducing the activity of protease, prodigiosin, and extracellular polysaccharide (EPS) by 36%, 72%, and 52%, respectively. In S. marcescens 4547, the activities of hemolysin and EPS were reduced by 28% and 40%, respectively, outperforming the positive control, vanillic acid (VAN). The study also found that the expression levels of QS- and biofilm-related genes (flhD, fimA, fimC, sodB, bsmB, pigA, pigC, and shlA) were downregulated by 1.21- to 2.32-fold. Molecular dynamics analysis showed that m-NPe could bind stably to SmaR, RhlI, RhlR, LasR, and CviR proteins in a 0.1 M sodium chloride solution. Importantly, a microscale thermophoresis (MST) test revealed that SmaR could be a target protein for the screening of a quorum sensing inhibitor (QSI) against S. marcescens. Overall, this study highlights the efficacy of m-NPe in suppressing the virulence factors of S. marcescens, identifying it as a new potential QSI and antibiofilm agent capable of restoring or improving antimicrobial drug sensitivity.© 2024 The Author(s). mLife published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Institute of Microbiology, Chinese Academy of Sciences.
Pigment is one of the most important metabolites in red yeast rice. However, citrinin may accumulate and cause quality security issues. In the present study, the effect of ascorbic acid (EAA) on the pigment and citrinin was studied, and the metabolic mechanism was discussed using comparative transcriptomics. The introduction of EAA increased the pigment by 58.2% and decreased citrinin by 65.4%. The acid protease activity, DPPH scavenging rate, and total reducing ability also increased by 18.7, 9.0, and 26.7%, respectively. Additionally, a total of 791 differentially expressed genes were identified, and 79 metabolic pathways were annotated, among which carbon metabolism, amino acid metabolism, and fatty acid metabolism were closely related to the biosynthesis of pigment and citrinin. Ethanol dehydrogenase (M pigC), oxidoreductase (M pigE), reductase (M pigH), and monooxygenase (M pigN) may be related to the increase of pigment. ctnC and pksCT contributed to the decline of citrinin.Copyright © 2024 Jiang, Duan, Yin, Zhang, Chen, Lan, Xiao, Tang, Wang and Zuo.
Evaluate safety and effectiveness of thermal radiofrequency in the musculocutaneous nerve in patients with focal elbow flexor spasticity.Ambispective observational follow-up study. Patients with focal spasticity secondary to central nervous system injury with elbow flexor pattern who received thermal radiofrequency treatment in the musculocutaneous nerve between 2021 and 2023 were included.12 patients.Ultrasound-guided thermal radiofrequency was applied to the musculocutaneous nerve at 80°C for 90 s. Effectiveness was assessed prior to thermal radiofrequency and at 6 months using scales to measure pain (VAS), spasticity (MAS), disability (DAS), quality of life (SQol-6D), patient-perceived and physician-perceived satisfaction (PIG-C, PGA), and goal attainment (GAS). Elbow joint range of motion was evaluated via goniometry. Safety was evaluated by assessing side effects.Patients had statistically significant improvements in spasticity (p = 0.003), severe elbow flexion (p = 0.02), pain (p = 0.046), functioning (p < 0.05), and spasticity-related quality of life (p < 0.05 in three sections). Furthermore, treatment goals were attained. Patient- and physician-perceived clinical improvement was achieved. Regarding side effects, two patients had dysesthesia that was self-limiting, with maximum duration of 1 month.Thermal radiofrequency in the musculocutaneous nerve can be a safe, effective treatment for patients with severe spasticity with an elbow flexor pattern.Copyright © 2024 Otero-Villaverde, Formigo-Couceiro, Martin-Mourelle and Montoto-Marques.
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection has been causally linked to hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in more than 50% cases. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play cross-cutting mechanistic roles in the complex interplay between viral pathogenesis, host survival, and clinical outcomes. The present study set out to identify etiologically significant human miRNAs associated with HBV infection in liver-related pathologies leading to HCC. In diverse tissue types, we assembled 573 miRNAs differentially expressed in HBV-associated liver pathologies, HBV infection, fibrosis, cirrhosis, acute on chronic liver failure, and HCC. Importantly, 43 human differentially expressed miRNAs (hDEmiRs) were regulated in serum/plasma and liver tissue of patients with HBV-positive conditions. However, only two hDEmiRs, hsa-miR-21-5p and hsa-miR-143-3p, were regulated across all disease conditions. To shortlist the functional miRNAs in HBV-induced HCC pathogenesis, a reverse bioinformatics analysis was performed using eight GEO datasets and the TCGA database containing the list of differentially regulated mRNAs in HCC. A comparative study using these data with the identified targets of hDEmiRs, a set of unidirectionally regulated hDEmiRs with the potential to modulate mRNAs in HCC, were found. Moreover, our study identified five miRNAs; hsa-miR-98-5p, hsa-miR-193b-3p, hsa-miR-142-5p, hsa-miR-522-5p, and hsa-miR-370-3p targeting PIGC, KNTC1, CSTF2, SLC41A2, and RAB17, respectively, in HCC. These hDEmiRs and their targets could be pivotal in HBV infection and subsequent liver pathologies modulating HCC clinical progression. HBV infection is the largest contributor to HCC, and the present study comprises the first of its kind compendium of hDEmiRs related to HBV-related pathologies.
A series of diverse organic compounds impose serious detrimental effects on the health of living organisms and the environment. Determination of the structural aspects of compounds that impart toxicity and evaluation of the same is crucial before public usage. The present study aims to determine the structural characteristics of compounds for Tetrahymena pyriformis toxicity using the q-RASTR (Quantitative Read Across Structure-Toxicity Relationship) model. It was developed using RASTR and 2-D descriptors for a dataset of 1792 compounds with defined endpoint (pIGC50) against a model organism, T. pyriformis. For the current study, the whole dataset was divided based on activity/property into the training and test sets, and the q-RASTR model was developed employing six descriptors (three latent variables) having r2, Q2F1 and Q2 values of 0.739, 0.767, and 0.735, respectively. The generated model was thoroughly validated using internationally recognized internal and external validation criteria to assess the model's dependability and predictability. It was highlighted that high molecular weight, aromatic hydroxyls, nitrogen, double bonds, and hydrophobicity increase the toxicity of organic compounds. The current study demonstrates the applicability of the RASTR algorithm in QSTR model development for the prediction of toxic chemicals (pIGC50) towards T. pyriformis.
Colorectal cancer liver metastasis (CRLM) represents the leading cause of mortality in colorectal cancer (CRC). However, the molecular mechanisms enabling metastatic adaptation within the hepatic microenvironment remain unclear. We integrated single-cell RNA sequencing, spatial transcriptomics, and bulk transcriptomic data from CRC patients to characterize the immunometabolic landscape of CRLM. Machine learning models were used to identify key regulators, and functional assays were conducted to validate their biological roles. Nine major cell populations were delineated within CRLM, revealing enrichment of myeloid-derived suppressor cells and depletion of fibroblasts in metastatic lesions. Malignant cells displayed pronounced chromosomal instability and metabolic reprogramming. Among candidate regulators, PIGT emerged as a pivotal node linking metabolic adaptation and immune suppression. PIGT expression increased progressively from primary to metastatic states and was associated with immunosuppressive MIF, SPP1, and TGFβ signaling. Spatial transcriptomics demonstrated colocalization of PIGT-high tumor cells with ITGAM⁺ and CD163⁺ macrophages. Functionally, PIGT knockdown significantly suppressed cell invasion, migration, proliferation, and wound healing in vitro. Conversely, transcriptomic and qPCR analyses showed that PIGT-low tumors exhibited higher expression of inflammatory genes enriched in the IL-17 and TNF signaling pathways. Our integrative multi-omics and experimental analyses identify PIGT as a central regulator bridging tumor metabolism and immune modulation in CRLM. These findings highlight PIGT as a promising prognostic biomarker and potential therapeutic target for metastatic colorectal cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 41373744 is a review article
Glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored proteins (GPI-APs) contribute to cancer progression, with their glycolipid modification mediated by glycosylphosphatidylinositol transamidase (GPIT). Phosphatidylinositol glycan anchor biosynthesis class T (PIGT), a key GPIT subunit, influences GPI-APs biosynthesis and tumor biology. This study investigates PIGT expression in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and its regulatory mechanisms.HCC genome sequencing and The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database were analyzed to compare PIGT expression between tumor and adjacent normal tissues. PIGT knockdown and overexpression cell lines examined its influence on HCC cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) identified downstream pathways, and Japan Australia Singapore Profiling Array Repository (JASPAR) predicted upstream transcriptional regulators, which were validated by in vivo tumor models.PIGT was upregulated in HCC, enhancing tumor cell aggressiveness. GSEA implicated oncogenic pathways, and JASPAR identified homeobox B7 (HOXB7) as key transcriptional regulator. Animal models validated HOXB7-induced PIGT upregulation and its role in HCC progression.PIGT promotes the HCC malignancy via the Wnt/β-catenin pathway, with HOXB7 as its upstream regulator.
Glioma, a highly aggressive brain tumor, presents significant challenges in prognosis and treatment. This study investigates the role of PTX3 expression in glioma and its correlation with patient outcomes, addressing a gap in current research regarding its molecular mechanisms.RNA sequencing data and clinical information for glioma patients were obtained from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). A multigene prognostic signature based on IL-18 signaling-related genes (ISRGs) was constructed using the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) Cox regression method. The functional roles of PTX3 were analyzed through Gene Ontology (GO), Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG), and Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA). Single-sample GSEA (ssGSEA) was used to assess the association between PTX3 expression and immune cell infiltration. The relationship between PTX3 expression and clinicopathological features was also examined. Prognostic relevance was evaluated using univariate and multivariate Cox regression models, and Kaplan-Meier survival analysis was performed. PTX3 protein expression was validated via immunohistochemistry in 56 glioma specimens.The LASSO Cox regression model identified a nine-gene prognostic signature, including BMP2, NCF1, HSPB1, PIGT, PTX3, CCNA2, CCNB2, CCN4, and DES. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that PTX3-associated differentially expressed genes were significantly enriched in pathways such as cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction and PI3K-Akt signaling, which are critical for immune response and cell proliferation in glioma. PTX3 expression showed a strong correlation with immune cell infiltration, particularly macrophages, neutrophils, T cells, and natural killer cells, suggesting a role in modulating the tumor microenvironment. Pan-cancer analysis indicated that PTX3 is markedly upregulated in various cancers, especially gliomas, highlighting its potential as a biomarker. PTX3 expression was also associated with clinical features such as WHO grade, IDH mutation status, and 1p/19q co-deletion, with higher PTX3 levels linked to poorer survival outcomes. Immunohistochemistry confirmed elevated PTX3 protein expression in both lower-grade glioma and glioblastoma multiforme.These findings highlight the critical role of PTX3 in glioma and suggest its potential as both a prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target. This study provides a foundation for future research into targeted therapies involving PTX3.©2025 Wang et al.
Phosphatidylinositol glycan class T (PIGT) is part of the glycosylphosphatidylinositol transamidase (GPI-TA) complex, crucial for various cell functions. Biallelic pathogenic variants in PIGT are associated with Multiple Congenital Anomalies-Hypotonia Seizures Syndrome 3 (MCAHS3), a rare neonatal hypotonia syndrome characterized by dysmorphic features and seizures. Diagnosing neonatal hypotonia, which has diverse congenital and acquired causes, is challenging, particularly in syndromic monogenic cases. Next-generation sequencing is essential for accurate diagnosis. This study reports a term newborn with hypotonia, dysmorphic features, seizures, and severe skeletal issues, including a humeral fracture at birth, consistent with MCAHS3. Trio whole exome sequencing (WES) analysis revealed a novel homozygous missense variant in PIGT, expanding the clinical spectrum of MCAHS3 and marking the first such case in the Thai population. The identified c.257A>G (p.His86Arg) variant manifests a severe MCAHS3 phenotype, as evidenced by reduced CD59 expression in western blot analysis, indicating impaired GPI-AP synthesis. Computational predictions suggest this mutation causes protein instability, potentially affecting GPI anchor attachment. While alkaline phosphatase (ALP), a GPI-AP crucial for skeletal mineralization, was elevated in this case, suggesting a late-stage GPI synthesis defect. The His86Arg mutation in PIGT may disrupt GPI-TA function, hindering proper protein attachment and leading to cleaved protein secretion. Further functional studies are needed to elucidate the impact of this mutation on PIGT function and MCAHS3 phenotypes.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 39417547
Croton oil is liquid at room temperature, with a pale-yellow color and spicy odor. It is commonly used in combination with phenol as a chemical peeling agent in dermatology, which reveals its caustic exfoliating effects. Topical use of croton oil at a high dose produces skin irritation, inflammation, swelling, pain, and even tumors. Therefore, croton oil has been widely used for inflammation, pain, and tumor related research, with different animal models having been established. However, mechanistic studies through which croton oil induces skin swelling, injury and activates tissue repair/regeneration are limited. The present study used croton oil to induce mouse ear edema and examined tissue responses 4 h after exposure. To this end, croton oil was applied to the ventral side of mouse ears, followed by tissue collection. Samples were analyzed by hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining, toluidine blue staining, and immunohistochemistry staining for myeloperoxidase (MPO) and matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9). Western blotting and ELISA were also carried out for MMP-9 together with unbiased proteomic analysis using mass-spectrometry. Results from our study demonstrated that as soon as 4 h of exposure to 2.5 % croton oil, the expression levels of MPO and MMP-9 in the dermis significantly increased compared to acetone-treated (vehicle) control ears, as did other inflammatory reactions such as swelling and neutrophil aggregation and infiltration. Subsequently, proteomic analysis confirmed that croton oil treatment resulted in significant upregulation of proteins such as myeloperoxidase (MPO), matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9), and matrix metalloproteinase-8 (MMP-8) in the ear skin. Interestingly, mouse ears treated with acetone vehicle showed differential expression of 2,478 proteins relative to naïve tissues; among those differentially expressed in acetone-treated samples were members of the phosphatidylinositol-glycan biosynthesis class N, T and U proteins (PIGN, PIGT, and PIGU). Overall, this work confirms the presence of neutrophil-derived MPO and MMP-9 and extends the body of knowledge to show that MMP-8 is also present during croton oil-mediated skin inflammation in the mouse ear; moreover, we find that acetone vehicle is not inert and has effects on the skin that should be considered moving forward.© 2024 Published by Elsevier B.V.
Skipped: PubMed ID 38963495 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 38903302 is a review article
Glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored proteins are located at the cell surface by a covalent attachment between protein and GPI embedded in the plasma membrane. This attachment is catalyzed by GPI transamidase comprising five subunits (PIGK, PIGS, PIGT, PIGU, and GPAA1) in the endoplasmic reticulum. Loss of either subunit of GPI transamidase eliminates cell surface localization of GPI-anchored proteins. In humans, pathogenic variants in either subunit of GPI transamidase cause neurodevelopmental disorders. However, how the loss of GPI-anchored proteins triggers neurodevelopmental defects remains largely unclear. Here, we identified a novel homozygous variant of PIGK, NM_005482:c.481A > G,p. (Met161Val), in a Japanese female patient with neurodevelopmental delay, hypotonia, cerebellar atrophy, febrile seizures, hearing loss, growth impairment, dysmorphic facial features, and brachydactyly. The missense variant was found heterozygous in her father, but not in her mother. Zygosity analysis revealed that the homozygous PIGK variant in the patient was caused by paternal isodisomy. Rescue experiments using PIGK-deficient CHO cells revealed that the p.Met161Val variant of PIGK reduced GPI transamidase activity. Rescue experiments using pigk mutant zebrafish confirmed that the p.Met161Val variant compromised PIGK function in tactile-evoked motor response. We also demonstrated that axonal localization of voltage-gated sodium channels and concomitant generation of action potentials were impaired in pigk-deficient neurons in zebrafish, suggesting a link between GPI-anchored proteins and neuronal defects. Taken together, the missense p.Met161Val variant of PIGK is a novel pathogenic variant that causes the neurodevelopmental disorder.© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to The Japan Society of Human Genetics.
To compare the four-week patency and degree of intra-graft stenosis of a percutaneously created extraluminal arterial bypass using a stent graft to a surgically created prosthetic bypass in a porcine carotid artery model.Seven female Yorkshire swine underwent both percutaneous and surgical carotid artery bypass procedures. Percutaneous bypasses were created using subcutaneously tunneled 6-mm GORE VIABAHN stent grafts, while surgical bypasses were performed on the contralateral side. Animals received dual antiplatelet therapy and were monitored weekly with Doppler ultrasound for four weeks. Graft patency and stenosis were assessed with angiography and explant inspection. Percent stenosis at cranial, mid-graft, and caudal segments were calculated and compared.Percutaneous bypass creation was technically successful in 6 of 7 pigs (86%); one failure was due to stent graft maldeployment. All successfully placed percutaneous and surgical grafts remained patent at four weeks. Mean angiographic stenosis for percutaneous grafts was 47% (caudal), 20% (mid), and 43% (cranial); versus 34% (caudal, p=0.26), 12% (mid, p=0.69), and 35% (cranial, p=0.42) for surgical grafts after four weeks. Visual inspection demonstrated comparable degrees of intimal hyperplasia (p=1.0). Four seromas occurred adjacent to surgical bypasses, whereas none occurred with percutaneous bypasses (p=0.06).Percutaneously created extraluminal arterial bypass demonstrated similar short-term patency and intra-graft stenosis compared to surgical bypass, supporting its potential as an alternative revascularization strategy in complex PAD.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
In this study, a novel nanoparticle vaccine that can efficiently display the protective antigen TbpBY167A of Glaesserella parasuis was constructed using the self-assembly property of the capsid (Cap) protein of porcine circovirus type 3 (PCV3). Traditional subunit vaccines against Glässer's disease often suffer from insufficient immunogenicity and suboptimal protective efficacy. The vaccine developed in the present study efficiently elicits both humoral and cellular immune responses via multivalent antigen display, leading to substantially enhanced overall adaptive immunity. This work therefore provides promising vaccine candidates with high safety and improved protective efficacy for the prevention and control of Glässer's disease.Monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) against TbpBY167A were generated using recombinant TbpBY167A protein expressed in E. coli and their epitope characteristics were identified and which can specifically react with TbpBY167A displayed on the surface of VLP (Virus-Like Particle). A recombinant baculovirus expressing the Cap protein of PCV3 fused with TbpBY167A at the N terminus was constructed. Guinea pigs were immunized with the nanoparticle vaccine and a conventional subunit vaccine (MBP-TbpBY167A), humoral immune responses, cytokine profiles, pathological changes, and protection rates after challenge were compared. One stable hybridoma cell line, designated 2D3, secreting MAbs against TbpBY167A was obtained, and its recognized epitope was mapped to a linear region spanning amino acids 269-275. Transmission electron microscopy confirmed that the Cap-TbpBY167A fusion protein self-assembled into homogeneous nanoparticles approximately 20 nm in diameter. Animal experiments showed that both the nanoparticle vaccine and the subunit vaccine elicited robust specific antibody responses and provided a 60% protection rate against lethal challenge. Notably, the nanoparticle vaccine group exhibited significantly milder histopathological lesions in the lungs and spleen compared with the subunit vaccine and challenge control groups. The Cap-TbpBY167A nanoparticle vaccine confers protection against lethal G. parasuis challenge and demonstrates less lesions of target organ pathology compared with the conventional subunit vaccine. The success of this study provides a novel antigen delivery strategy for the development of broad-spectrum vaccines against G. parasuis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This study investigated alternatives to the categorical visual pig carcass conformation scores (VCCS) to optimally complement lean meat percentage (LMP) and hot carcass weight (HCW) in describing the carcass value of slaughtered pigs. A total of 130 pig carcasses were selected and evaluated using the VCCS. Carcass measurements were then recorded, after which the left carcass half was EU-jointed and dissected into ham, loin, shoulder and belly. Of the 38 carcass measurement and dissection parameters evaluated, the ponderal index, ham index, shoulder bone content, loin bone content and the relative weight of the hindfoot and -shank were simultaneously independent of both HCW and LMP. Of these parameters, only the ham index and ponderal index showed a significant difference in the pairwise comparison between VCCS classes 4 (N = 59) and 5 (N = 55), indicating that they could serve as a replacement for the current VCCS determination.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae (APP) causes porcine contagious pleuropneumonia (PCP), a highly contagious respiratory disease that inflicts substantial economic losses to the global swine industry. Given the high serotypic diversity of APP and limited cross-protective efficacy of current vaccines, novel candidates are urgently needed. In contrast to commercial APP vaccines relying on formalin-inactivated native Apx toxoids, and to experimental antigens that frequently use truncated Apx fragments or proteins refolded from insoluble inclusion bodies, this study successfully expressed full-length, soluble recombinant ApxIA and ApxIIA. These novel recombinant antigens were combined with inactivated APP serotype 1 to construct an inactivated whole-cell subunit combination vaccine, designated BAA. Its protective efficacy against multiple APP serotypes was evaluated in a porcine challenge model. The BAA vaccine showed a favorable safety profile. Compared with control and toxin-free inactivated bacterial vaccine (Bac) groups, BAA-immunized pigs exhibited significantly higher levels of specific antibodies against ApxIA, ApxIIA, and bacterial antigens. After challenge with APP serotypes 1, 3, 5, and 7, BAA-vaccinated pigs achieved survival rates of 100%, 80%, 80%, and 100%, respectively, with milder clinical signs, reduced lung lesions, and significantly lower pulmonary bacterial loads than other groups. Histopathology confirmed markedly alleviated pulmonary pathology in BAA-vaccinated pigs. These results indicate that the BAA vaccine confers robust cross-protection against heterologous APP serotypes and is a promising candidate for PCP prevention.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Rodents are well-recognized agricultural pests, causing significant damage to crops and infrastructure, as well as posing health risks to both animals and humans by transmitting various infectious agents. On livestock farms, they can contribute to disease transmission dynamics, for example by acting as mechanical vectors that carry pathogens from one stable to another, forming a hidden transmission network. This study explored the potential role of commensal rodents as mechanical vectors for the roundworm Ascaris suum on pig farms in Belgium. While A. suum is a highly prevalent intestinal parasite in pigs worldwide, its potential spread by rodents on pig farms has not been thoroughly investigated. It addresses this gap by examining whether Mus musculus and Rattus norvegicus, two common rodent species found on farms, can carry and spread A. suum eggs between different areas of the farm. Rodents were trapped on two pig farms and their faecal samples were analysed microscopically for the presence of A. suum eggs. The results showed a low prevalence of eggs in the faecal samples, with 4.17% in M. musculus and 17.14% in R. norvegicus. Serological screening of pigs further confirmed prior exposure to A. suum in both farms. Despite the low prevalence, these findings suggest that rodents could act as mechanical vectors of A. suum eggs between stables, potentially leading to persistent environmental contamination. This highlights the potential need to include rodent control as part of broader biosafety strategies to limit A. suum transmission on pig farms, particularly by reducing the risk of reintroducing eggs into stables that have already been cleaned and disinfected.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skeletal muscle function deteriorates with injury, disease, or aging. While stem cell therapies offer therapeutic potential, concerns remain regarding the safety and efficacy of transplanted cells. Satellite cells (SCs), the primary endogenous stem cells responsible for muscle repair, demonstrate safe transplantation but limited clinical effectiveness. A deeper understanding of the mechanisms regulating SC activation and differentiation is critical for improving muscle regeneration strategies.We examined the role of CSRP3 in SC-mediated muscle repair using injury models and myoblast differentiation assays. We compared its function in pigs and mice, employing genetic approaches, CSRP3 knockdown (CSRP3KD), Csrp3-/- and overexpression (CSRP3OE), to assess its impact on muscle regeneration. Additionally, we investigated the AKT-SERCA2 signaling axis and its downstream effects on calcium homeostasis, mitochondrial function, and myogenic differentiation.CSRP3 was essential for muscle regeneration and SC differentiation in pigs but not in mice. Genetic ablation of CSRP3 (CSRP3KD) impaired porcine SC differentiation and reduced regenerative capacity, while CSRP3 overexpression (CSRP3OE) enhanced these processes. Mechanistically, CSRP3 deficiency disrupted AKT-SERCA2 signaling, leading to elevated intracellular Ca2⁺, mitochondrial dysfunction, and MYOG protein degradation. Pharmacological AKT activation rescued differentiation defects in CSRP3-deficient cells. Notably, Csrp3-/- mice showed normal SC differentiation and AKT-SERCA2 activity, highlighting a species-specific regulatory role for CSRP3.Our findings identify CSRP3 as a critical regulator of porcine muscle regeneration, with minimal impact in mice. These results suggest that strategically engineered porcine SCs, through CSRP3 modulation, could improve the effectiveness of xenotransplantation-based therapies for muscle repair.© 2026. The Author(s).
Salmonella enterica subsp. enterica serovar Choleraesuis is a pathogen that can cause severe systemic disease and remains a challenge in swine production due to its impact on animal health, economic losses, and zoonotic risk. While vaccination is a key control tool, current vaccines often provide limited protection to the targeted (and untargeted) serovar. Trained immunity has gained attention as a possible way to enhance non-specific protection.This study explored whether a porcine-derived BCG strain (dpB), administered live or inactivated, could improve the protective effect of a conventional S. Choleraesuis vaccine in pigs, not only against homologous challenge but also against heterologous serovars.Pigs immunized with inactivated dpB in conjunction with the S. Choleraesuis vaccine showed a trend toward better bacterial control, with the lowest levels of S. Choleraesuis recovered from feces and ileocecal lymph nodes. Additionally, this group demonstrated a slight improved immune reactivity to heterologous serovars and a balanced cytokine response, without indications of excessive inflammation. In contrast, animals that received live dpB in addition to the vaccine showed the most severe pulmonary lesions, lowest phagocytic activity and a dysregulated cytokine profile.These results suggest that inactivated dpB may modulate immune responses when administered together with a conventional S. Choleraesuis vaccine and could contribute to improved bacterial control. However, the observed effects were generally modest and require confirmation in larger studies. These preliminary results support further investigation of trained immunity-based approaches as potential strategies added to conventional vaccination against Salmonella in swine.Copyright © 2026 Sánchez-Morales, Pérez-Sancho, García-Seco, Balseiro, Pérez-Domingo, Buendía, Díez-Guerrier, Fernández-Manzano, Relimpio, Ugarte-Ruiz, de los Ángeles Risalde, Gortázar and Domínguez.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42564499 is a review article
The importance of swine welfare has grown in Latin America, driving universities in this region to place significant efforts in developing educational opportunities to better prepare future animal professionals. While students' perspectives are central to assess the efficacy of these programs, research remains limited. To tackle this issue, this study aimed to explore, through an online survey, Latin American future animal professionals' perceptions and attitudes toward swine welfare and examine their confidence in discussing and addressing welfare issues specific to pigs. The survey was distributed among universities located in Ecuador, Brazil, Chile, and Honduras to undergraduate and graduate students in veterinary and animal science programs. Participant responses (n = 216) were analyzed using cluster and risk factor analysis. Cluster analysis revealed three distinct groups, all of which agreed on the importance of animal welfare but varied in how students value swine welfare education and in their confidence to communicate and address swine welfare issues. Additionally, risk factor analysis revealed that students' source of information was an important cluster membership predictor. Overall, this study provided insights into students' perspectives, values, and confidence regarding swine welfare, as well as recommendations for future research that universities and researchers should consider to further enhance the education of future animal professionals in the region and beyond.Copyright © 2026 Donoso, Arruda, Klüppel, Ferreira and Pairis-Garcia.
Delayed gastric conduit emptying (DGCE) is a common complication following esophagectomy-associated gastric conduit surgery and is often resistant to conventional treatments. Neural gastric electrical stimulation (NGES) is a potential approach to managing DGCE by generating propulsive gastric contractions through timed bursts of high-frequency, multisite stimulation. This study evaluates the efficacy of NGES in increasing gastric emptying in an acute porcine vagally denervated postsurgical conduit.Six anaesthetized pigs underwent a staged interventions to assess whether gastric emptying at baseline, after bilateral truncal vagotomy, and after creation of a gastric conduit was accelerated by anterior-plus-posterior (A-plus-P) NGES or anterior-only (A-only) NGES. NGES was delivered through sequential (proximal-to-distal) activation of multiple gastric serosal electrode pairs to induce coordinated peristalsis. Liquid gastric emptying was measured by direct effluent collection, and myoelectrical activity was recorded by the same electrodes. Percentage gastric emptying was compared across conditions using repeated-measures analysis.Vagotomy reduced 15-minute gastric emptying from 30.8 ± 26.0% to 7.9 ± 8.6% (p < 0.01). NGES improved emptying after vagotomy to 48.8 ± 28.3% with A-plus-P electrode stimulation (p = 0.004) and 48.0 ± 27.4% with A-only electrode stimulation (p = 0.003). Gastric tubularization independently increased emptying to 70.0 ± 21.5% (p = 0.006 vs the vagotomized whole stomach), with a peak of 96.3 ± 6.5% when tubularization was combined with A-only NGES.NGES, using gastric surface electrodes, effectively increases gastric emptying after acute vagotomy, with A-only electrode stimulation achieving comparable efficacy to A-plus-P stimulation. These findings position NGES as a promising therapy for DGCE and other refractory gastric motility disorders, supporting progression to chronic animal studies to assess long-term efficacy and safety.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Water-saving and drought-resistance rice (WDR) is crucial for sustainable cultivation under water scarcity, yet its productivity is increasingly compromised by rice blast and bacterial blight (BB). A systematic assessment of resistance gene deployment in elite WDR parents is urgently needed to guide resistance breeding.We dissected the resistance architecture of 47 core WDR parental lines by genotyping 11 blast and 4 BB resistance genes. For blast, Ptr was nearly fixed (97.9%), whereas loci previously reported to confer broad-spectrum blast resistance, such as Pigm (0%) and Pi9 (19.1%), were scarce. Blast resistance scores correlated negatively with gene number (ρ = -0.330, P = 0.023). For BB, resistance genes were only detected in 34.0% of lines, mainly restorers, with Xa23 (21.3%) and Xa7 (23.4%) being most frequent. The recessive gene xa5 was absent, and Xa21 (8.5%) was rare. BB resistance exhibited a strong negative correlation with gene count (ρ = -0.771, P < 0.001).Resistance-associated loci were unevenly distributed in the WDR breeding panel, with apparent gaps in loci previously associated with durable or broad-spectrum resistance. These findings provide a preliminary basis for genotype-guided parental selection and marker-assisted pyramiding strategies in WDR breeding. Previous resistance-oriented improvement of elite restorers further suggests the potential value of integrating resistance-locus profiling with breeding design.© 2026. The Author(s).
PIGM encodes a critical enzyme in the glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchor biosynthesis pathway. While promoter-region mutations in PIGM have been associated with a relatively mild phenotype characterized by portal vein thrombosis and absence seizures, recent evidence suggests that coding-region mutations result in a more severe multisystemic disorder.Whole-exome sequencing reanalysis was performed in a patient with early-onset developmental and epileptic encephalopathy, and subsequent matchmaking identified another patient with a similar phenotype. The pathogenicity of the variant was evaluated through multiple functional assays. To further delineate the genotypic and phenotypic spectrum of PIGM, we reviewed all patients reported to date with PIGM variants.We describe two unrelated patients, both carrying the same homozygous missense variant in PIGM (c.1001A > C, p.Gln334Pro), presenting with early-onset developmental and epileptic encephalopathy, profound neurodevelopmental impairment, multi-organ involvement, and distinctive neuroimaging findings including hypomyelination. Both patients died in infancy due to super-refractory status epilepticus. Treatment with sodium phenylbutyrate was attempted in one patient without clinical benefit. Flow cytometry revealed partial GPI-anchor deficiency. Comparative analysis with previously reported cases highlights a potential genotype-phenotype correlation between coding region variants and disease severity.Our findings establish PIGM as a causative gene of early-onset developmental and epileptic encephalopathy and expand the clinical and radiological spectrum of PIGM deficiency to include hypomyelination and prenatal onset. This study underscores the importance of including PIGM in the differential diagnosis of developmental and epileptic encephalopathy and leukoencephalopathies and provides further insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying phenotypic variability of GPI-anchor disorders.© 2026 The Author(s). Annals of Clinical and Translational Neurology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Neurological Association.
Huang-Huai rice region is the second largest product area of high-quality geng/japonica (GJ) rice in China. Improving blast resistance of rice varieties with resistance genes is the most effective, economical and environmentally friendly manner to reduce the loss caused by the outbreaks of rice blast (Magnaporthe oryzae). Although many resistance genes have been cloned, the improvement of blast resistance is proceeding slowly. In order to facilitate genetic improvement of blast resistance, we performed haplotype analysis of 26 blast resistance loci using 40 rice accessions with high-quality genome sequence, and identified unique variations for each functional gene. Based on identified unique variations, we provided a set of intragenic markers for 24 genomic loci, including 35 markers developed and 7 markers reported in previous studies. Subsequently, we conducted genotyping of resistance genes in 130 GJ varieties approved in Huang-Huai region, and revealed that the functional types of two genes, BRG8 and PICI1, were fixed in all GJ varieties, while the functional types of another eight genes, namely Pi64, bsr-d1, Pi21, ROD1, Pi2, Pi9, Pi36 and Pb2, were not carried by any GJ variety. In addition, the functional types of seven genes, Pi35, Pigm, Pid4, Pik, Pikm, Piks and Pijx, were carried by the minority of varieties, or few varieties. Finally, we evaluated panicle blast resistance of 96 GJ varieties to a mix of six representative blast isolates. The majority showed high susceptibility, while the variety ‘Shengdao 138’ displayed the highest resistance. Analysis of resistance genes and panicle blast of tested GJ varieties demonstrated that genes Pizt, Pid3 and Pid2 contributed to partial resistance. Collectively, this study provided a set of intragenic markers for 24 blast resistance loci, a clear view of resistance genes carried by Huang-Huai GJ varieties, and the variety ‘Shengdao 138’ showing high panicle resistance, which could be of great use in genetic improvement of GJ varieties in Huang-Huai rice region, and maybe GJ varieties in other rice regions worldwide.
Rice blast and bacterial blight cause severe harm to rice production, and the breeding of resistant varieties guarantees the safety of rice production. Meanwhile, multigene pyramiding breeding based on molecular marker-assisted selection is a crucial approach for rice breeding to combat multiple diseases. This study aimed to develop accurate and efficient PARMS markers for rice blast resistance genes Pita, Pigm, and Pi2, and bacterial blight resistance gene Xa23. A systematic genotyping analysis of the resistant alleles of these 4 genes was performed on 384 major cultivated varieties in production. The results showed that only 5.21% of the varieties harbored more than two resistant alleles simultaneously. Using traditional breeding strategies in combination with the developed PARMS markers, the high-quality three-line male sterile line Ruanfeng A (pyramiding Pita and Pigm) and the strong restorer line Gui 610 (pyramiding Pi2 and Xa23) were bred. Crossing these lines produced a new hybrid rice variety, Ruanfengyou 610. Ruanfengyou 610 pyramids 4 resistance genes (Pita/Pigm/Pi2/Xa23), exhibits resistance to both rice blast and bacterial blight, has prominent heterosis and excellent grain quality, and has strong application potential, which is of great significance for ensuring the safety of rice production.
Error in Figure [...].
Polymeric (p) immunoglobulins (Igs) play critical roles in vertebrate immunity. IgM is the evolutionarily oldest pIg and functions both in circulation and in the mucosa. pIgM typically comprises between four and six IgM monomers and up to one joining chain (JC), which in mammals facilitates pIg assembly and promotes delivery to mucosal secretions. Bony fish (teleosts) lack JC and assemble tetrameric IgM whereas humans can express JC-containing pentamers and JC-free hexamers. Here we report cryo-electron microscopy structures of two JC-free chimeric IgM, comprising bony fish and human sequences, and the structure of human hexameric IgM. Chimeric IgM structures adopted unique pentameric geometry distinct from both human and fish pIgM whereas the human hexameric IgM structure adopted hexagonal geometry similar to JC-containing pentameric IgM, albeit with structural differences in center of the molecule. Together results provide new insights on how IgM heavy chain motifs contribute to JC-free pIgM assembly and reveal plasticity of this process, which can be manipulated to create pIg structures not observed in nature. Moreover, we found that antigen-targeting chimeric IgM could neutralize C. difficile toxin cytotoxicity, indicating potential to engineer uniquely structured pIgs to prevent or treat disease.
The Yangtze River Delta (YRD) is one of the most important japonica rice planting areas in China. Balancing the resistance, yield, and quality has always been a core issue in rice breeding due to the negative correlation among these three factors, while the broad-spectrum blast resistance gene Piz is closely linked with Hd1, the major gene regulating days to heading (DTH), and a precise combination of their beneficial alleles plays a key role in synchronously improving blast resistance and the regional adaptability of japonica rice in YRD. In this study, using the backcross progeny population derived from backbone parent ZD9471 and W1063, two alleles of Hd1 were identified. Then, through molecular marker-assisted selection combined with Green Super Rice 40K (GSR40K) chip-based screening, six introgression lines (ILs) with two different alleles combinations of Hd1 and Pigm were obtained. An evaluation of the blast resistance, yield, and quality traits showed that compared with the recipient parent, the panicle blast resistance of ILs was significantly enhanced; the grain number per panicle increased consistently with the delaying of the growth period, leading to higher yield in the ILs; the grain quality were synchronously improved. Two representative lines with similar genetic backgrounds but a significantly different regional adaptability, exhibiting a good blast resistance, high yield, and prominent quality were approved and demonstrated promising application prospects.
Rice blast, caused by the fungal pathogen Magnaporthe oryzae, is one of the most destructive diseases of rice worldwide. The utilization of host resistance (R) genes in rice breeding program is considered as the most economical, effective, environment-friendly strategy for rice blast control. The R gene Pigm, shows high, broad-spectrum and durable resistance to rice blast. Here, we report the successful integration of Pigm into Longke638S (LK638S), an elite thermo-sensitive genic male sterile (TGMS) line in hybrid rice production in China. The integration significantly enhanced the blast resistance of LK638S and the derived hybrid varieties demonstrated exceptional performance in both yield and blast resistance. The improved line Longzhen36S (LZ36S), which recovered 91.84% of the recurrent parent genome. LZ36S exhibited a high blast resistance frequency of 96.4% against 28 blast isolates. Furthermore, the LZ36S-derived hybrids exhibited enhanced resistance to both seedling and panicle blast compared to LK638S-derived hybrids carrying the heterozygous Pi2 gene, all without yield penalty. A total of ninety LK638S derived hybrid varieties have been state or provincial approved and certified with an annual promoting area exceed 964.0 thousand hectares. The LZ36S-derived hybrids can serve as improved versions with enhanced blast resistance, making them viable replacements for LK638S-derived hybrids in commercial production. Moreover, sixteen LZ36S-derived hybrid varieties, all possessing moderate (MR) or high (R) level blast resistance, along with excellent yield and grain quality, have been state or provincial approved and certificated. These LZ36S-derived hybrids show great potential for rapid commercialization, with promoting area of ~ 200 thousand hectares by 2023.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s11032-025-01555-3.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2025. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Rice blast is one of the most important diseases of rice, causing significant economic losses to agricultural production. A new gene, Pigm-1, which is allelic to Pigm, was cloned from Shuangkang 77009 using map based cloning. However, it is unclear whether there is a difference in the resistance spectrum between Pigm and Pigm-1. In this study, using 195 rice blast isolates collected from different areas of the Fujian Province, the Pigm-1 and Pigm single gene lines were inoculated to test their resistance. There was only one blast fungus JL-37 that showed a differential response in Pigm and Pigm-1 single gene lines, while the remaining 194 showed no difference. To further explore the application range of Pigm-1, the resistant rice R20-4 containing Pigm-1 was used as the donor, and a sensitive sticky rice S19-118 was used as the receptor. The hybrid F1 was first backcrossed with S19-118 using a molecular marker-assisted selection breeding method, and a strain containing the Pigm-1 gene was selected to continue to backcross with S19-118 until BC3F1. A new blast resistance rice material, Xiannuo 23, containing Pigm-1 was developed and confirmed by laboratory and field tests. This material can be broadly used for the future breeding of rice blast resistant cultivars to reduce the loss of rice production.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 39912323
Developmental and epileptic encephalopathies (DEEs) are severe neurodevelopmental disorders characterized by early-onset seizures, developmental impairment, and heterogeneous neurological features. We retrospectively analyzed 37 children meeting strict DEE criteria from the Iranian Neurodegenerative and Leukodystrophy Registry (2016-2024), focusing on movement disorders and white matter (WM) abnormalities. Seizure onset occurred within the first year in 81% (30/37). Movement disorders were observed in 24.3% (9/37), including dystonia, myoclonus, ataxia, chorea, tremor, and oculomotor apraxia, with patterns observed across different genetic etiologies. WM abnormalities were present in 43.2% (16/37), predominantly demyelinating, with gene-associated imaging patterns observed in metabolic/lysosomal genes (CLN6, MFSD8, ITPA) and in variants involving TNK2, SLC13A5, and PIGU. Pathogenic or likely pathogenic variants were identified in 78.4% (29/37), including 18 novel variants across 23 genes, with predominance of loss-of-function variants (72.4%). Within the limitations of this cohort, recognition of combined movement and WM features may support improved diagnostic evaluation and prioritization of genetic testing, particularly in settings with variable EEG findings. These observations warrant validation in larger cohorts to further clarify genotype-phenotype relationships in DEEs.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Older patients' admissions to intensive care units (ICUs) are rising worldwide, driven by population aging, and are associated with high rates of mortality and functional decline. Despite expert recommendations for improved care pathways, post-ICU follow-up remains fragmented. This study aimed to evaluate the 3-month survival rate free of functional decline and its associated factors in older post-ICU patients admitted to a dedicated Post-Intensive care Geriatric Unit (PIGU).This single-center, cohort study included 104 patients aged 75 years or older, admitted to the PIGU at St Antoine Hospital from January 2023 to July 2023 and from January 2025 to July 2025. The primary outcome was survival free of functional decline at 3 months, defined as a loss of more than one point on the ADL score compared to pre-ICU baseline.The study population comprised 104 patients (52 women, 50%; median age 82 (79-86) years; median ADL 6 (5-6), IADL 4 (2-4), CFS 4 (3-5). The 3-month survival rate free of functional decline was 64%, with 77% of survivors regaining their previous level of autonomy. Lesser ICU-acquired weakness (CPAx score 1.22 [1.05-1.54]) and higher brachial circumference (OR 1.6 [1.12-2.62]) were significantly associated with survival without loss of autonomy.In this single-center observational study, early geriatric care in a dedicated post-ICU unit was associated with satisfactory 3-month survival free of functional decline and autonomy recovery. These findings support the development of dedicated geriatric programs for older post-ICU patients, though multicenter studies are warranted to confirm these results.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to European Geriatric Medicine Society.
Anaplastic thyroid cancer (ATC) patient develops resistance to radioactive iodine (RAI) due to diminished sodium-iodide symporter (NIS) expression and mislocalization to the cell membrane. MAPK pathway inhibitors have demonstrated efficacy in enhancing RAI avidity in radioiodine-refractory papillary thyroid carcinoma and ATC. Elucidating this mechanism may lead to novel therapeutic approaches for ATC treatment. The cytotoxic effects of three MAPK pathway inhibitors (selumetinib, vemurafenib, dabrafenib) were assessed in ATC cell lines and xenograft models via viability assays and 18F-FDG PET/CT. We investigated their impact on radioiodine metabolism by analyzing the expression of key genes (NIS, TSHR, and TPO) and trafficking regulators (ARF4, PIGU, and β-catenin) via Western blotting, and assessing NIS localization and function through immunofluorescence and uptake assays. The protein interaction between NIS and ARF4 was examined via co-immunoprecipitation (co-IP) and immunofluorescence. MAPK pathway inhibitors reduced the viability of ATC cell lines. ATC cells exhibited restored iodine metabolism-related gene expression after treatment, and pronounced increases in membrane-localized NIS were detected via the promotion of ARF4 expression. Furthermore, MAPK pathway inhibitors increased radioiodine uptake in ATC cells. The MAPK pathway inhibitors enhance NIS function through two mechanisms: upregulation of NIS expression and increased ARF4-mediated NIS membrane transport.© 2026. The Author(s).
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a heterogeneous malignancy with poor prognosis. This study identifies metabolism-related genes (MRGs) associated with HCC prognosis, develops a multi-gene prognostic model based on metabolic reprogramming and immune escape, and evaluates their roles in the tumor microenvironment (TME) to guide diagnosis and treatment.Transcriptomic and clinical data from HCC patients were analyzed using public databases (TCGA). MRGs linked to HCC staging and prognosis were identified. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) detected metabolic gene modules associated with tumor progression. A multi-gene prognostic model was built using LASSO and random survival forests (RSF). Model performance was evaluated with Kaplan-Meier analysis, ROC curves, and Nomogram. Single-cell analyses explored metabolic interactions, and enrichment and mutation analyses assessed key genes' significance. PCR validated gene expression.A total of 374 metabolism-related genes were linked to HCC staging. A prognostic model with eight key genes (UCK2, CAD, NUDT1, PIGU, IVD, CAT, ALDH6A1, SLC2A2) showed strong predictive performance across TCGA, ICGC, and GEO cohorts. Low-risk patients had significantly better survival (5-year survival prediction AUC of 0.75). PCR validation confirmed differential expression: UCK2, CAD, NUDT1, and PIGU were upregulated, while IVD, CAT, ALDH6A1, and SLC2A2 were downregulated. Immune infiltration analysis indicated an accumulation of immunosuppressive cells in the high-risk group, whereas the low-risk group exhibited an immune-active phenotype characterized by elevated infiltration of effector cells. Single-cell analysis uncovered metabolic-immune interactions in the TME. Gene mutation analysis showed frequent mutations in the high-risk group, linked to invasiveness and treatment resistance.This study identifies key metabolism-related genes linked to HCC prognosis and develops a multi-gene prognostic model. Our findings highlight the roles of metabolic reprogramming and immune escape in HCC, providing a foundation for future immune and metabolic interventions.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.
Oiling risk from vessel traffic is an increasing threat to marine birds in the Pacific region of Canada. We defined exposure risk as the joint likelihood that oil pollution and sensitive marine birds occur in the same area at the same time. We developed and applied two standardized overlap metrics-the Utilization Distribution Overlap Index (UDOI) and Intersect Intensity (II)-to identify where and when marine birds are most exposed to oil pollution within the Canadian Pacific Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ). We used Kernel Density Estimation (KDE) based on at-sea transect and coastal swath/point-count data (compiled from 2000 to 2022) to estimate seasonal (winter: Oct-Mar; summer: Apr-Sep) relative distributions for six alcid species: Ancient Murrelet (ANMU), Marbled Murrelet (MAMU), Cassin's Auklet (CAAU), Common Murre (COMU), Rhinoceros Auklet (RHAU), and Pigeon Guillemot (PIGU), accounting for spatially and temporally heterogeneous effort. We also used KDEs based on AIS-based vessel traffic, maritime infrastructure, and shipwreck location data to estimate relative likelihood of oil pollution. UDOI results showed that vessel traffic is the dominant source of exposure risk for alcids, with strong seasonal and species-specific variation. Exposure was consistently high for COMU and MAMU in both seasons, and consistently low for CAAU. Risk was elevated in winter for ANMU, COMU, and MAMU, and in summer for RHAU and PIGU, largely due to seasonal range contraction into the Salish Sea, where vessel traffic and coastal infrastructure are concentrated. II maps revealed persistent hotspots in the Salish Sea, particularly Haro Strait and eastern Juan de Fuca Strait, for most species in both seasons. Western Juan de Fuca and Georgia Straits, and Queen Charlotte and Johnstone Straits, were also identified as important seasonal hotspots, especially during summer.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Gastric cancer (GC) develops through a multistep process; however, the molecular mechanisms driving the progression from normal gastric mucosa to precancerous lesions and ultimately to GC remain incompletely understood. Here, this study performed whole-transcriptome sequencing and ATAC-seq on normal gastric mucosa (N), gastric precancerous lesions (P), and gastric tumor tissues (T) to profile chromatin accessibility, lncRNAs, miRNAs, and mRNAs. Differential expression and KEGG pathway analyses identified key hub genes driving gastric carcinogenesis. A core competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) network revealed critical regulatory lncRNAs for H19 and SNHG3. Through integrative analysis of ATAC-seq and whole-transcriptome sequencing, FAM117A and PIGU were identified as potential key regulatory factors. Experimental validation, including western blot, RT-qPCR, plasmid transfection and immunohistochemistry, confirmed FAM117A and PIGU as pivotal targets. Functional assays demonstrated that FAM117A and PIGU regulate the p53 signaling pathway and modulate cell adhesion molecules (N-cadherin and E-cadherin), highlighting their involvement in abnormal proliferation and tumor metastasis during GC progression. These findings identify FAM117A and PIGU as novel biomarkers and potential therapeutic targets, providing mechanistic insights into gastric carcinogenesis.© 2025 The Authors.
Phosphatidylinositol glycan anchor biosynthesis class U (PIGU), a crucial subunit of the glycosylphosphatidylinositol transamidase (GPI-T) complex, is an oncogene in hepatocellular carcinoma. However, its role in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) remains poorly understood. This study aims to clarify PIGU's role and mechanisms in ESCC by analyzing its expression across pan-cancer datasets, clinical relevance in TCGA-ESCA samples, and effects on cell behavior (migration, invasion, proliferation) and signaling pathways, validated via immunohistochemistry. To examine cell behavior, we used Transwell, colony-formation, CCK-8, and wound-healing assays to assess migration, invasion, proliferation, and wound healing.The epithelial-mesenchymal transition marker levels were measured using Western blot analysis, and the cell cycle and apoptosis were assessed using flow cytometry in conjunction with western blotting. Furthermore, we used western blotting to examine proteins implicated in the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway.To further confirm PIGU's role in ESCC progression, a subcutaneous xenograft mouse model was employed. Our findings suggest that PIGU is highly expressed in ESCC and is strongly associated with tumor growth, lymphatic metastasis and poor prognosis, and is an independent prognostic factor for ESCC patients.PIGU knockdown not only arrested the cell cycle and induced apoptosis, but also significantly reduced migration, invasion, and proliferation in ESCC cells. Additionally, vimentin and N-cadherin were downregulated when PIGU expression was silenced, although E-cadherin expression was simultaneously increased.Moreover, PIGU knockdown decreased the amount of phosphorylated Akt and PI3K. In vivo, PIGU knockdown inhibited ESCC cell proliferation and promoted apoptosis. These findings imply that targeting PIGU may represent a promising therapeutic approach, and that PIGU could potentially serve as both a diagnostic and prognostic biomarker for esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC).© 2025. The Author(s).
The causal relationship between gut microbiota (GM) and white matter injury and communication remains unclear. We aimed to scrutinize the plausible causal impact of GM on white matter hyperintensities (WMHs), white matter microstructure, white matter connectivity, and multiple neurological diseases via Mendelian randomization study. We identified four WMH-related bacterial taxa, including class Melainabacteria, order Gastranaerophilales, family Alcaligenaceae, and genus Ruminiclostridium 6 In addition, three bacterial taxa were discovered that have consistent effect on multiple aspects of white matter microstructure. Furthermore, we found 12 strong associations between genetic liability in GM and white matter connectivity. Among these bacterial taxa, the family Clostridiaceae 1 demonstrated a protective effect against ischemic stroke (IS). The genus Barnesiella showed protective effect on IS and small vessel stroke while posed a risk effect on neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder (NMOSD), as well as on aquaporin-4 immunoglobulin G-positive neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder (AQP4-IgG+ NMOSD). The order Desulfovibrionales and family Desulfovibrionaceae showed protective effect against cardioembolic stroke, and the genus Ruminococcus gnavus group showed a protective effect on amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. In terms of the mapped genes of statistically significant bacterial taxa, genes such as CPNE1, PIGU, MED22, SURF6, DOCK10, and COPS3 exhibited a significant causal correlation with the corresponding white matter connectivity. This study demonstrated a genetically predicted causal relationship between GM and WMH, white matter microstructure, white matter connectivity, and multiple neurological diseases, based on GWAS data from mixed-sex cohorts without sex-stratified summary statistics. These findings highlight the potential role of GM in influencing brain structural integrity.Copyright © 2025 Zhang et al.
Immune escape is a critical barrier to effective cancer immunotherapy for cancers such as hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The aim of this study was to identify prognostic genes associated with immune escape and to analyse immune infiltration in HCC.The TCGA-LIHC cohort gene expression matrix and TCGA cohort were downloaded from the UCSC Xena and TCGA databases, respectively, for differential expression analysis, as well as for clinical data and survival information. Additionally, gene expression matrices from HCC tumor tissue samples were downloaded from the ICGC database to validate prognostic models. Subsequently, enrichment analysis utilizing the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) and Gene Ontology (GO) were conducted. Risk modeling was subsequently performed, followed by univariate and multivariate Cox regression analyses, as well as LASSO regression analysis. Overall survival (OS) curves, receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves, and nomograms were also generated. Finally, immune infiltration analysis was performed by single-sample genomic enrichment analysis (ssGSEA) and GeneMANIA to predict the functions and pathways of associated with prognostic genes.A total of 4489 differential expression genes were obtained, including 3259 up-regulated, and 1230 down-regulated. Among them, 2123 GO biological functions and 334 KEGG results were enriched. Subsequently, eight differential genes related to immune escape became candidate genes. Finally, we constructed a risk model using three genes, CEP55, GPAA1 and PIGU, and demonstrated better results. The results of immune infiltration showed that the prognostic genes affected the patient's condition through these immune cells. Subsequently, we performed drug sensitivity analysis and finally discovered that CEP55 and PIGU were positively associated with five drugs in the high-risk group. And these three key prognostic genes have high expression levels in HCC tumor tissues.Our study found that three prognostic genes: CEP55, GPAA1 and PIGU have good prognostic value for HCC patients, and are the pivotal prognostic biomarkers.© 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V.
To explore the potential molecular regulatory mechanisms of phosphatidylinositol glycan anchor biosynthesis class U (PIGU) in glycolysis in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).This study initially employed public databases of global bulk RNA (including multi-center microarray and bulk RNA sequencing), in-house immunohistochemistry (IHC), proteomics, and single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) to detect the comprehensive overexpression of PIGU in HCC. Combined with CRISPR knockout screen analysis, the impact of knocking out PIGU on HCC cell lines was assessed. bulk RNA and scRNA-seq data were utilized to identify the potential regulatory mechanisms of PIGU in HCC. Further analysis of PIGU's potential regulatory modes in glycolysis was conducted using scMetabolism and scFEA. CellChat was used to explore the pathways of PIGU in various cell types. In vitro experiments were conducted to reveal the biological effects of PIGU on SMMC-7721 and Huh7 cells through proliferation, migration, invasion, cell cycle, and apoptosis assays.PIGU was markedly overexpressed in bulk RNA (3773 HCC samples), IHC and proteomics (234 HCC samples), and scRNA-seq (22861 HCC cells). CRISPR knockout of PIGU inhibited the proliferation of HCC cell lines. The upregulation of PIGU modulated glycolysis and affected the cell cycle, promoting the glycolytic metabolic pathway from Glucose to G6P and 3PD to Pyruvate. Additionally, high expression of PIGU potentially regulated the MK pathway. In cell experiments, knockdown of PIGU gene expression impeded the proliferation, migration, and invasive capabilities of SMMC-7721 and Huh7 cells, and induced a tendency towards cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in SMMC-7721 cells.Overexpression of PIGU may potentially promote glycolysis by regulating the conversion from Glucose to G6P and from 3PD to Pyruvate, affecting the cell cycle, and thereby promoting the occurrence and development of HCC.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Crossbreeding indigenous cattle with high-yielding exotic breeds has been a key strategy in Indian dairy systems for increasing milk production. The Karan Fries (KF), a stabilised dairy cattle population derived from the Tharparkar and Holstein Friesian breeds, serves as a valuable genetic resource in India. Despite their adaptability and performance, the genomic architecture underpinning milk traits and stature in KF cattle remains largely unexplored. Therefore, a genome-wide association study (GWAS) was conducted using 777 K SNP genotyping data and estimated breeding values (EBVs) as the dependent variable for four economically important dairy traits: first lactation total milk yield (FLTMY), total fat yield (TFY), total solids-not-fat yield (TSNFY), and stature. After quality control and LD pruning, 347,621 SNPs across 355 KF animals were analysed, revealing 54 significant single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with these traits, with several exhibiting pleiotropic effects. Candidate genes such as EPHA7, SCFD2, DCUN1D4, CWH43, ZMAT4, KYNU, GINS4, GPAT4, GOLGA7, and OCIAD1 were associated with milk yield and compositional traits, while CBLB, CCDC14, ALCAM, MALRD1, and MUC13 were linked to stature. Protein-protein interaction network analysis identified functionally connected gene clusters involved in lactation, fat metabolism, and structural development. These results provide preliminary insights into the genomic architecture of KF cattle and highlight candidate genes associated with milk production and stature traits. While exploratory in nature, these findings may serve as a starting point for future validation and the development of genomic selection strategies in tropical dairy cattle.
Periodontitis is a common inflammatory disease affecting the tissues surrounding and supporting the teeth, ultimately leading to tooth loss if left untreated. This study aimed to investigate the diagnostic potential of lipid metabolism-related genes (LMRGs) and characterize the immune microenvironment landscape in periodontitis. Differential expression analysis identified differentially expressed LMRGs (DELMRGs), followed by functional enrichment analyses to elucidate their biological functions. Hub DELMRGs were identified using Random Forest, least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression, and XGBoost. The diagnostic performance of these genes was assessed using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves. Immune cell infiltration and immune function status were analyzed using ImmuCellAI and Gene Set Variation Analysis (GSVA), respectively. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was employed to decode the immune microenvironment and cell communication networks at single-cell resolution in periodontitis. Machine learning approaches revealed five hub LMRGs: FABP4, CWH43, CLN8, ADGRF5, and OSBPL6. ADGRF5 and FABP4 were significantly upregulated in periodontitis samples, while CWH43, CLN8, and OSBPL6 were downregulated. The combined LMRGs score exhibited excellent diagnostic performance with an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.954. Immune cell infiltration analysis unveiled significant positive correlations between LMRGs score and various T cell subsets in periodontitis. GSVA indicated activation of antigen presentation processes and multiple immune-related pathways in periodontitis. scRNA-seq delineated eight distinct cell types, with key LMRGs differentially expressed across cell types. Cell communication analysis highlighted significant interactions mediated by MHC-II, CXCL, and ADGRE5 signaling pathways. Monocytes and multipotent progenitor cells (MPPs) primarily contributed to the inflammatory response. Further analysis of monocyte heterogeneity identified five monocyte clusters with distinct roles, including immune and inflammatory response activation and pathways related to cell proliferation and metabolism.In summary, the integrated LMRGs score, which reflects lipid metabolism's role, represents a promising diagnostic biomarker for periodontitis. Additionally, detailed immune cell infiltration and single-cell analyses underscored the critical role of the immune microenvironment in periodontitis pathogenesis.© 2025. The Author(s).
Fatty acid composition is a key trait affecting meat quality in Japanese Black cattle. In this study, a genome-wide association study (GWAS) was conducted on Hyogo population of Japanese Black cattle (n = 432) for the percentage of oleic acid (C18:1). Quantitative trait loci (QTLs) were detected on chromosomes 6 and 19 (BTA6 and BTA19). Focusing on the QTL on BTA6, we conducted a detailed search for candidate polymorphisms. Using whole-genome resequencing data (n = 42), all polymorphisms were detected within 83 genes located on the candidate region (chr6: 55-83 Mbp). Based on variant annotations and linkage disequilibrium coefficients with the most significantly associated single nucleotide polymorphism from GWAS (top SNP), 93 variants were extracted as potential causal polymorphisms. Validation revealed that four variants, located within four different genes, had p values comparable to the top SNP. Among them, CWH43 emerged as a strong candidate, as it regulates the intracellular Mn2+ concentrations, which influence fatty acid metabolism. Notably, the SNP in CWH43 was located upstream of the gene, suggesting a possible regulatory role in gene expression. These findings provide important insights into the genetic basis of fatty acid composition and support the identification of functional polymorphisms in Japanese Black cattle.© 2025 Japanese Society of Animal Science.
Clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) poses significant challenges due to its asymptomatic nature and poor prognosis at advanced stages. Identifying novel biomarkers is essential for enhancing prognostic accuracy and therapeutic strategies. This study explores the CWH43 gene, utilizing multi-omics data to determine its role in ccRCC.Genomic, transcriptomic, and methylation data from TCGA-KIRC and GEO databases were analyzed to evaluate CWH43 expression and clinical impact. Bioinformatics tools assessed correlations with patient outcomes and pathway involvement.CWH43 expression was significantly reduced in ccRCC tissues and correlated with advanced disease stages and poor patient survival. Enrichment analyses revealed CWH43's involvement in critical cancer pathways, such as autophagy and immune response modulation, suggesting its significant role in ccRCC pathophysiology. Lower CWH43 levels were associated with increased tumor progression and immune evasion, impacting the tumor microenvironment.This study highlights the utility of multi-omics data in identifying CWH43 as a novel prognostic biomarker for ccRCC. Integrating CWH43 into clinical practice could refine prognostic assessments and guide personalized therapy strategies, aligning with advancements in modern oncology. Further research is warranted to explore CWH43's mechanisms and therapeutic potential.© 2025. The Author(s).
Knowledge of the genetic factors in normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH) is rapidly evolving, with significant advances in recent years. We conducted a systematic review examining genetic contributions to NPH risk. Ovid Embase, Ovid Medline, Web of Science, and Cochrane Central were searched from inception through October 14, 2024, for human studies in English reporting familial NPH cases, genetic variants associated with NPH, and associations with other neurogenetic disorders and exploring transcriptomics. Studies on secondary, obstructive, and congenital hydrocephalus were excluded, and findings were reported narratively. Of 2562 titles and abstracts screened, 56 met inclusion criteria, predominantly involving European populations. More than 30 familial cases were identified, and two cohorts found that 10%-16% of patients with NPH had relatives with NPH symptoms. Whole-genome/exome sequencing, copy-number variant analyses, and genome-wide association studies showed risk variants enriched in NPH cohorts in or near CFAP43, SFMBT1, CWH43, AK9, RXFP2, PRKD1, HAVCR1, OTOG, MYO7A, NOTCH1, SPG11, MYH13, FOXJ1, AMZ1/GNA12, and C16orf95, alongside protective variants near SLCO1A2 and MLLT10. These genes are associated with blood-brain and blood-cerebrospinal fluid barriers, cilia, and ependymal function. In addition, higher rates of pathological C9orf72 repeat expansions were observed in an NPH cohort compared with controls. NPH was also more prevalent in frontotemporal dementia cohorts without this expansion and co-occurred with myotonic dystrophy type 1 in several cases. Despite heterogeneity in outcome measures, this review highlights the genetic contribution to NPH risk. Future research should encourage collaborations for big data generation, identify genetic variants addressing diversity, and integrate clinical, environmental, and shunt-response data. © 2025 The Author(s). Movement Disorders published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.© 2025 The Author(s). Movement Disorders published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.
Clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC, KIRC) is the most prevalent subtype of RCC, and even with different available therapies, the average progression-free survival is worse. Therefore, the identification of new molecular targets could be helpful for its therapeutic purposes.We used the Cancer Genome Atlas to perform bioinformatic analyses for genes with possible tumor suppressor roles in KIRC.This research aims to identify new prognostic biomarkers and potential therapeutic targets for this type of cancer.We identified 14 down-regulated genes in KIRC that had not previously been studied or poorly studied, with the majority of them impacted by increased promoter methylation. Eight genes showed shorter overall survival and worse prognosis, indicating their function as tumor suppressors, and six genes revealed good prognosis. From the 8 genes, C7ORF41 and CTXN3 revealed only downregulation in most cancers, proposing them as highly potential tumor suppressors. Among these 8 genes, the function of CTXN3 in cancers is unknown. Moreover, we identified the CWH43 gene as the major signature of KIRC. In addition, we found different genes as signatures of KIRC tumor stages and grades.Our results may shed light on identifying KIRC pathogenesis and developing effective therapeutic targets for renal cancers, mainly KIRC.Copyright: © 2021 The Author(s); Published by Iranian Journal of Biotechnology.
Heterozygous CWH43 loss-of-function (LOF) variants have been identified as iNPH risk factors, with 10-15% of iNPH patients carrying these variants in cohorts from the US. Mouse model harboring CWH43 LOF variants display a hydrocephalic phenotype with ventricular cilia alterations. Our aim was to study the effect of CWH43 variants on disease risk and clinical phenotype in Finnish and Norwegian iNPH cohorts.We analyzed CWH43 LOF frameshift deletions (4:49032652 CA/C, Leu533Ter and 4:49061875 CA/C, Lys696AsnfsTer23) in Finnish iNPH patients from the Kuopio NPH registry (n = 630) and FinnGen (iNPH n = 1 131, controls n = 495 400), and Norwegian iNPH patients from EADB (n = 306). The Kuopio and Norwegian cohorts included possible and probable iNPH patients based on the American-European iNPH guidelines. FinnGen cohort included iNPH patients based on ICD-10 G91.2 with the exclusion of secondary etiologies, and controls having no diagnosis of hydrocephalus.In the Kuopio cohort of Finnish iNPH patients, 2.9% carried CWH43 variants (Leu533Ter 2.1%, Lys696AsnfsTer23 0.8%), with one homozygous Leu533Ter carrier. In FinnGen, 3.1% of iNPH patients carried heterozygous variants (Leu533Ter 2.6%, Lys696AsnfsTer23 0.5%) compared to 2.5% of controls (p = 0.219, OR = 1.23, 95% CI 0.85-1.72), with no effect on disease risk or onset age. Importantly in the FinnGen cohort, none of the 23 compound heterozygote or 59 homozygote individuals had hydrocephalus diagnosis. In the Norwegian iNPH cohort, 5.2% of patients were heterozygous variant carriers (Leu533Ter 3.3%, Lys696AsnfsTer23 2.0%). No differences in clinical phenotype (age, triad symptoms, shunt response, vascular comorbidities) were found between carriers and noncarriers in any cohort. However, 74% of variant-carrying iNPH patients in FinnGen were female, compared to 47% of noncarriers (p = 0.002). Pedigrees indicated no autosomal dominant co-inheritance of iNPH and the CWH43 variants.We studied the iNPH-associated CWH43 LOF variants for the first time on a population-scale. Contrary to previously reported findings in smaller cohorts, our study revealed a low prevalence of these variants in the population-scale Finnish iNPH cohort, with no effect on disease risk of iNPH. The prevalence in the Norwegian iNPH cohort was also low compared to previous studies.© 2025. The Author(s).
Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a chronic and recurrent inflammatory disease that affects the colon and rectum. The response to treatment varies among individuals with UC. Therefore, the aim of this study was to identify and explore potential biomarkers for different subtypes of UC and examine their association with immune cell infiltration. We obtained UC RNA sequencing data from the GEO database, which included the training set GSE92415 and the validation set GSE87473 and GSE72514. UC patients were classified based on GLS and its associated genes using consensus clustering analysis. We identified differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in different UC subtypes through a differential expression analysis of the training cohort. Machine learning algorithms, including Weighted Gene Co-Expression Network Analysis (WGCNA), Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO), and Support Vector Machine Recursive Feature Elimination (SVM-RFE), were utilized to identify marker genes for UC. The CIBERSORT algorithm was used to determine the abundance of various immune cells in UC and their correlation with UC signature genes. Finally, we validated the expression of GLS through in vivo and ex vivo experiments. The expression of GLS was found to be elevated in patients with UC compared to normal patients. GLS and its related genes were able to classify UC patients into two subtypes, C1 and C2. The C1 subtype, as compared to the C2 subtype, showed a higher Mayo score and poorer treatment response. A total of 18 DEGs were identified in both subtypes, including 7 up-regulated and 11 down-regulated genes. Four UC signature genes (CWH43, HEPACAM2, IL24, and PCK1) were identified and their diagnostic value was validated in a separate cohort (AUC > 0.85). Furthermore, we found that UC signature biomarkers were linked to the immune cell infiltration. CWH43, HEPACAM2, IL24, and PCK1 may serve as potential biomarkers for diagnosing different subtypes of UC, which could contribute to the development of targeted molecular therapy and immunotherapy for UC.© 2024. The Author(s).
Kawasaki disease (KD) is a diffuse vasculitis in children. Response to high dose intravenous gamma globulin (IVIG), the primary treatment, varies according to genetic background. We sought to identify genetic loci, which associate with treatment response using whole genome sequencing (WGS).We performed WGS in 472 KD patients with 305 IVIG responders and 167 non-responders defined by AHA clinical criteria. We conducted logistic regression models to test additive genetic effect in the entire cohort and in four subgroups defined by ancestry information markers (Whites, African Americans, Asians, and Hispanics). We performed functional mapping and annotation using FUMA to examine genetic variants that are potentially involved IVIG non-response. Further, we conducted SNP-set [Sequence] Kernel Association Test (SKAT) for all rare and common variants.Of the 43,288,336 SNPs (23,660,970 in intergenic regions, 16,764,594 in introns and 556,814 in the exons) identified, the top ten hits associated with IVIG non-response were in FANK1, MAP2K3:KCNJ12, CA10, FRG1DP, CWH43 regions. When analyzed separately in ancestry-based racial subgroups, SNPs in several novel genes were associated. A total of 23 possible causal genes were pinpointed by positional and chromatin mapping. SKAT analysis demonstrated association in the entire MANIA2, EDN1, SFMBT2, and PPP2R5E genes and segments of CSMD2, LINC01317, HIVEPI, HSP90AB1, and TTLL11 genes.This WGS study identified multiple predominantly novel understudied genes associated with IVIG response. These data can serve to inform regarding pathogenesis of KD, as well as lay ground work for developing treatment response predictors.Copyright © 2024 Shrestha, Wiener, Kajimoto, Srinivasasainagendra, Ledee, Chowdhury, Cui, Chen, Beckley, Padilla, Dahdah, Tiwari and Portman.
Idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus (iNPH) is an enigmatic neurological disorder that develops after age 60 and is characterized by gait difficulty, dementia, and incontinence. Recently, we reported that heterozygous CWH43 deletions may cause iNPH. Here, we identify mutations affecting nine additional genes (AK9, RXFP2, PRKD1, HAVCR1, OTOG, MYO7A, NOTCH1, SPG11, and MYH13) that are statistically enriched among iNPH patients. The encoded proteins are all highly expressed in choroid plexus and ependymal cells, and most have been associated with cilia. Damaging mutations in AK9, which encodes an adenylate kinase, were detected in 9.6% of iNPH patients. Mice homozygous for an iNPH-associated AK9 mutation displayed normal cilia structure and number, but decreased cilia motility and beat frequency, communicating hydrocephalus, and balance impairment. AK9+/- mice displayed normal brain development and behavior until early adulthood, but subsequently developed communicating hydrocephalus. Together, our findings suggest that heterozygous mutations that impair ventricular epithelial function may contribute to iNPH.
The potential etiological factors for acquired secondary erythrocytosis (SE) include sleep apnea, smoking, and renal cysts. However, there is limited evidence to consistently support an association between these factors and SE. Additionally, identifying the genetic variants underlying SE requires specific and expensive testing methods. These diagnostic challenges mean that many cases of SE are classified as idiopathic, which complicates the development of tailored diagnostic and therapeutic strategies.This study examined 2 brothers (brother I [BI] and brother II [BII]) with idiopathic SE who were undergoing monthly phlebotomy.A diagnosis of polycythemia vera or other acquired causes, such as pulmonary disease or malignancy, was excluded. Both subjects exhibited mild to moderate sleep apnea, while their erythropoietin levels were within the normal range.To identify potential disease-causing variants shared by the brothers, gene panel exome-sequencing and further biochemical investigations were conducted.The following was identified in BI and BII: potential causative mutations in the EPAS1 gene, which were ruled out as causative factors through variant annotation and gene expression analysis; a heterozygous missense variant in the PIGV gene (p.Ala341Glu), which is known to damage proteins. The red blood cells of the brothers exhibited reduced fragility and lower hemolysis levels compared to healthy controls, with a slight increase in CD59 surface exposure.These findings suggest that red blood cells from BI and BII are more resistant to hemolysis. However, given that PIGV is involved in glycosylphosphatidylinositol biosynthesis and that CD59 exposure affects hemolysis, further investigation is required to elucidate these pathogenic mechanisms. Molecular and biochemical characterization of patients with idiopathic SE may pave the way for identifying novel mechanisms involved in the disease.Copyright © 2025 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Post-translational modifications, such as glycosylation and phosphorylation, play a critical role in protein trafficking, interactions, and stability. Disruptions in these pathways can lead to glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) deficiencies, which present with a spectrum of clinical features, including congenital anomalies, dysmorphic features, developmental delay, hypotonia, and epilepsy. Biallelic variants in PIGV, a key mannosyltransferase in GPI biosynthesis, cause Hyperphosphatasia with Impaired Intellectual Development Syndrome 1 (HPMRS1), a rare disorder characterized by hyperphosphatasia, seizures, developmental delay, hypotonia, abnormal MRI findings, and distinct facial dysmorphisms. Fewer than 30 cases have been reported to date. We conducted a case study and literature review; with clinical data obtained from medical records. A 2-year-old female presented with developmental delay, myoclonic epilepsy, hypotonia, and mild facial dysmorphism. Laboratory results showed elevated alkaline phosphatase (899 U/L) and low pyridoxal 5'-phosphate levels in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Brain MRI revealed diffuse cerebral volume loss and ventriculomegaly. Trio genome sequencing identified two PIGV variants: c.1415T>C-p.(Leu472Pro) and c.524T>C-p.(Leu175Pro). Functional studies using PIGV-knockout HEK293 cells transfected with wild-type or mutant PIGV constructs demonstrated reduced GPI-anchored protein (GPI-AP) expression under weaker promoters, indicating impaired enzymatic activity. We report two novel PIGV variants associated with HPMRS1, emphasizing the value of functional assays in variant interpretation. Our findings also highlight the diagnostic relevance of alkaline phosphatase measurement in patients with refractory seizures.© 2025 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Neural tube defects (NTDs) are severe congenital malformations with complex and multifactorial etiologies involving genetic, environmental, and metabolic factors. Despite folic acid fortification efforts, a considerable proportion of cases remains unexplained at the molecular level.This study aimed to identify rare pathogenic variants in patients with NTDs using whole exome sequencing (WES) and to evaluate their functional significance through systems biology approaches.WES was performed on nine unrelated patients with clinically diagnosed NTDs. Variants were filtered using ACMG-AMP criteria and curated via the Franklin by Genoox platform. Genes carrying pathogenic or likely pathogenic variants were analyzed using STRING for protein-protein interactions and Metascape for functional enrichment.Seven genes (PAH, ADGRG6, MPDZ, NARS1, ITGB2, PIGV, and STIL) harbored rare, clinically significant variants. Mutation types included missense, stop-gain, and frameshift, with both heterozygous and homozygous inheritance patterns. STRING analysis revealed a subnetwork involving MPDZ and ITGB2, related to tight junction integrity. Metascape analysis identified enrichment in biological processes such as catecholamine metabolism, floor plate development, and immune regulation.This study supports a polygenic and mechanistically diverse model of NTD pathogenesis, wherein rare variants affect developmental pathways including metabolism, cell adhesion, and neurogenesis. Integrating high-throughput sequencing with systems biology enhances variant interpretation and may inform future diagnostics and prevention strategies.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Improving feed efficiency (FE) is a significant goal in animal breeding programs. Variations in FE and its relationship with rumen microbiota remain poorly understood across different goat breeds.This study assessed the influence of the rumen microbiome and host genome on FE in 10 Shami (SH) goats and 10 Zaraibi (ZA) goats, all of which were fed the same diet. The animals were genotyped using the Illumina 65KSNP chip arrays v2, and their rumen bacteria and archaea were investigated using PCR-amplicon sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene.The results showed that the ZA goats exhibited higher FE than the SH goats (p < 0.05) and a greater relative abundance (p < 0.05) of rumen bacterial groups that are involved in the degradation of cellulose and hemicelluloses, such as Bacteroidota and Fibrobacterota, along with genera such as Prevotella, Lachnospiraceae AC2044 group, Lachnospiraceae NK3A20 group, and Succiniclasticum, which are linked to carbohydrate and nitrogen metabolism pathways. In addition, breed differences were found to affect the proportions of milk fatty acids. The association analysis identified 26 genome windows containing several putative candidate genes, such as TMEM241, AP4S1, FTO, HYAL2, BBS2, CD52, CRYBG2, PIGV, WDTC1, EEF1A2, GBA2, FNIP1, ACSL6, STARD10, VPS26B, ACAD8, GLB1L3, NRN1L, LCAT, and SLC7A6. These genes contributed to FE traits in Egyptian goats, as they are involved in obesity, metabolism, and the transport of energy, vitamins, fatty acids, proteins, and lipids through diverse biological pathways.This study suggests that specific genetic markers and rumen microbial traits could be used to identify high-efficient individuals in Egyptian goat breeds, and improving breeding strategies for FE.Copyright © 2025 Rabee, Abou-souliman, Yousif, Lamara, El-Sherbieny, Elwakeel and Sallam.
Skipped: PubMed ID 39425166 is a review article
The case report by Mabry et al. (1970) of a family with four children with elevated tissue non-specific alkaline phosphatase, seizures and profound developmental disability, became the basis for phenotyping children with the features that became known as Mabry syndrome. Aside from improvements in the services available to patients and families, however, the diagnosis and treatment of this, and many other developmental disabilities, did not change significantly until the advent of massively parallel sequencing. As more patients with features of the Mabry syndrome were identified, exome and genome sequencing were used to identify the glycophosphatidylinositol (GPI) biosynthesis disorders (GPIBDs) as a group of congenital disorders of glycosylation (CDG). Biallelic variants of the phosphatidylinositol glycan (PIG) biosynthesis, type V (PIGV) gene identified in Mabry syndrome became evidence of the first in a phenotypic series that is numbered HPMRS1-6 in the order of discovery. HPMRS1 [MIM: 239300] is the phenotype resulting from inheritance of biallelic PIGV variants. Similarly, HPMRS2 (MIM 614749), HPMRS5 (MIM 616025) and HPMRS6 (MIM 616809) result from disruption of the PIGO, PIGW and PIGY genes expressed in the endoplasmic reticulum. By contrast, HPMRS3 (MIM 614207) and HPMRS4 (MIM 615716) result from disruption of post attachment to proteins PGAP2 (HPMRS3) and PGAP3 (HPMRS4). The GPI biosynthesis disorders (GPIBDs) are currently numbered GPIBD1-21. Working with Dr. Mabry, in 2020, we were able to use improved laboratory diagnostics to complete the molecular diagnosis of patients he had originally described in 1970. We identified biallelic variants of the PGAP2 gene in the first reported HPMRS patients. We discuss the longevity of the Mabry syndrome index patients in the context of the utility of pyridoxine treatment of seizures and evidence for putative glycolipid storage in patients with HPMRS3. From the perspective of the laboratory innovations made that enabled the identification of the HPMRS phenotype in Dr. Mabry's patients, the need for treatment innovations that will benefit patients and families affected by developmental disabilities is clear.
Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and unfolded protein response are cells' survival strategies to thwart disruption of proteostasis. Tumor cells are continuously being challenged by ER stress. The prion protein, PrP, normally a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored protein exists as a pro-PrP retaining its GPI-peptide signal sequence in human pancreatic ductal cell adenocarcinoma (PDAC). Higher abundance of pro-PrP indicates poorer prognosis in PDAC patients. The reason why PDAC cells express pro-PrP is unknown. Here, we report that persistent ER stress causes conversion of GPI-anchored PrP to pro-PrP via a conserved ATF6-miRNA449c-5p-PIGV axis. Mouse neurons and AsPC-1, a PDAC cell line, express GPI-anchored PrP. However, continuous culture of these cells with the ER stress inducers thapsigargin or brefeldin A results in the conversion of a GPI-anchored PrP to pro-PrP. Such a conversion is reversible; removal of the inducers allows the cells to re-express a GPI-anchored PrP. Mechanistically, persistent ER stress increases the abundance of an active ATF6, which increases the level of miRNA449c-5p (miR449c-5p). By binding the mRNA of PIGV at its 3'-UTRs, miR449c-5p suppresses the level of PIGV, a mannosyltransferase pivotal in the synthesis of the GPI anchor. Reduction of PIGV leads to disruption of the GPI anchor assembly, causing pro-PrP accumulation and enhancing cancer cell migration and invasion. The importance of ATF6-miR449c-5p-PIGV axis is recapitulated in PDAC biopsies as the higher levels of ATF6 and miR449c-5p and lower levels of PIGV are markers of poorer outcome for patients with PDAC. Drugs targeting this axis may prevent PDAC progression.Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 37372388 is a review article
Heart failure (HF) is a progressive chronic disease that remains a primary cause of death worldwide, affecting over 64 million patients. HF can be caused by cardiomyopathies and congenital cardiac defects with monogenic etiology. The number of genes and monogenic disorders linked to development of cardiac defects is constantly growing and includes inherited metabolic disorders (IMDs). Several IMDs affecting various metabolic pathways have been reported presenting cardiomyopathies and cardiac defects. Considering the pivotal role of sugar metabolism in cardiac tissue, including energy production, nucleic acid synthesis and glycosylation, it is not surprising that an increasing number of IMDs linked to carbohydrate metabolism are described with cardiac manifestations. In this systematic review, we offer a comprehensive overview of IMDs linked to carbohydrate metabolism presenting that present with cardiomyopathies, arrhythmogenic disorders and/or structural cardiac defects. We identified 58 IMDs presenting with cardiac complications: 3 defects of sugar/sugar-linked transporters (GLUT3, GLUT10, THTR1); 2 disorders of the pentose phosphate pathway (G6PDH, TALDO); 9 diseases of glycogen metabolism (GAA, GBE1, GDE, GYG1, GYS1, LAMP2, RBCK1, PRKAG2, G6PT1); 29 congenital disorders of glycosylation (ALG3, ALG6, ALG9, ALG12, ATP6V1A, ATP6V1E1, B3GALTL, B3GAT3, COG1, COG7, DOLK, DPM3, FKRP, FKTN, GMPPB, MPDU1, NPL, PGM1, PIGA, PIGL, PIGN, PIGO, PIGT, PIGV, PMM2, POMT1, POMT2, SRD5A3, XYLT2); 15 carbohydrate-linked lysosomal storage diseases (CTSA, GBA1, GLA, GLB1, HEXB, IDUA, IDS, SGSH, NAGLU, HGSNAT, GNS, GALNS, ARSB, GUSB, ARSK). With this systematic review we aim to raise awareness about the cardiac presentations in carbohydrate-linked IMDs and draw attention to carbohydrate-linked pathogenic mechanisms that may underlie cardiac complications.
Osteonecrosis and fractures are serious corticosteroid-induced bone toxicities in children treated for acute lymphoblastic leukemia, yet their genetic determinants remain incompletely defined. In this study, we aimed to identify novel genetic contributors to bone toxicity and to evaluate the robustness of both newly identified and previously established risk genotypes in more recent Dana-Farber Cancer Institute treatment protocols. Whole-exome sequencing was first performed in a discovery cohort to identify genetic variants associated with osteonecrosis. A novel association with a variant in the PGAP2 gene was identified and subsequently confirmed in an independent replication cohort, with effects of patient- and disease-related characteristics observed in both cohorts. Next, previously reported candidate gene-derived associations, together with this newly identified variant, were assessed in a more recent cohort to examine their relevance in contemporary treatment protocols. Variants in BCL2L11 and the ACP1-SH3YL1 locus were associated with bone fractures, with a strong synergistic effect and significant modulation by protocol-specific factors, particularly corticosteroid exposure and asparaginase formulation. The PGAP2 variant was associated with the combined osteonecrosis-fracture phenotype. Transcriptomic analyses revealed isoform-specific expression shifts in PGAP2 in patients with osteotoxicity, supporting a potential functional role for altered splicing or gene regulation. Together, our results provide insight into the pharmacogenomic architecture of osteotoxicity in ALL, demonstrating that PGAP2, BCL2L11, and ACP1-SH3YL1 variants remain clinically relevant predictors of bone toxicity across evolving treatment protocols. However, their clinical manifestations appear to be context-dependent, underscoring the importance of integrating genetic susceptibility with pharmacologic exposures and supporting further investigation of the underlying molecular mechanisms.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical Pharmacology & Therapeutics published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Society for Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics.
Orthologous gene inference is a crucial technical challenge in evolutionary biology. It typically depends on sequence similarity searches and employs a graph clustering method to infer homologous gene families. However, the all-vs-all sequence similarity search is time-consuming for large-scale genome datasets. In this work, we present LSGFA, a method that detects subgraphs based on the similarity of protein domain architectures and then performs graph clustering within each subgraph, corresponding to sequences that share similar compositions of protein domains.LSGFA carries out four steps in the analysis workflow: protein domain annotation, initial clustering based on Pfam domain architecture, SSN-based clustering, and detection of pan-genomic patterns. Benchmarking against five state-of-the-art tools (OrthoFinder, Roary, PanTA, Panaroo, and PGAP2) across multiple datasets demonstrates that LSGFA achieves a balanced trade-off between computational efficiency and biological accuracy. It takes less time than OrthoFinder while identifying more core genes than high-speed heuristic tools, and its orthogroup inference results show strong consistency with OrthoFinder.Due to the high proportion of proteins with known domain architectures in prokaryotes, LSGFA is particularly well-suited for prokaryotic genomes, where it significantly reduces computational time while yielding accurate homologous gene inference.© 2026. The Author(s).
Background/Objectives: Consanguine families are helpful to identify recessive candidate genes for inherited diseases, but can also show an unusual inheritance pattern of pathogenic mutations. In this case series, we demonstrate this in five consanguine families with epilepsy from Pakistan. Methods: We performed whole exome sequencing of respective index patients, analyzed the data using two different models for inheritance of mutations and determined the segregation pattern of relevant mutations in the families by bi-directional Sanger sequencing. Results: Apart from mutations in classical dominant epilepsy genes (TSC2, DEPDC5, and CACNA1I), pathogenic mutations in rare recessive epilepsy-related genes (PGAP2, NOVA2, and CCDC88C) were also identified. Interestingly, we were able to provide evidence that GALR2 is potentially an additional gene associated with a recessive form of epilepsy. In one family, a homozygous 'pathogenic' TRAF3IP1 p. Gly387* nonsense mutation was identified, which, most probably due to stop-codon read-through, did not contribute to the phenotype. Conclusions: Our case series of consanguine families with epilepsy exemplifies the inheritance pattern of mutations in rare recessive epilepsy genes, and shows that mutations in classical epilepsy genes showing dominant or sporadic inheritance can also be relevant. That requires the analysis of whole exome data on the basis of different inheritance models.
Pan-genome analysis is a crucial method for studying genomic dynamics. By creating pan-genome maps for prokaryotic organisms, we can gain valuable insights into their genetic diversity and ecological adaptability. However, current analytical methods often struggle to balance accuracy and computational efficiency, and they tend to provide primarily qualitative results. This study introduces PGAP2, an integrated software package that simplifies various processes, including data quality control, pan-genome analysis, and result visualization. PGAP2 facilitates the rapid and accurate identification of orthologous and paralogous genes by employing fine-grained feature analysis within constrained regions. Our systematic evaluation with simulated and gold-standard datasets demonstrates that PGAP2 is more precise, robust, and scalable than state-of-the-art tools for large-scale pan-genome data. Furthermore, PGAP2 introduces four quantitative parameters derived from the distances between or within clusters, enabling detailed characterization of homology clusters. Finally, we validate our quantitative findings by applying PGAP2 to construct a pan-genomic profile of 2794 zoonotic Streptococcus suis strains. This analysis offers new insights into the genetic diversity of S. suis, thereby enhancing our understanding of its genomic structure. PGAP2 is freely available at https://github.com/bucongfan/PGAP2 .© 2025. The Author(s).
[This corrects the article DOI: 10.1155/2024/5518289.].Copyright © 2025 Human Mutation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Hyperphosphatasia with mental retardation syndrome (HPMRS) is characterized by intellectual impairment, seizures, hypotonia, facial dysmorphism, and elevated serum alkaline phosphatase (ALP) level. HPMRS has been linked to mutations in several genes including PGAP2 and PGAP3. Here, we report 2 patients of HPMRS3 and HPMRS4 and highlight the genetic and phenotypic diversity of this disorder.Patient 1, a 1-year-old male with developmental delay, generalized tonic-clonic seizures, and dysmorphic facial features, was found to have a pathogenic variant in the PGAP3 gene. Patient 2, a 1-year-old female with seizures, hypotonia, joint hypermobility, and facial dysmorphism, was found to have a pathogenic variant in the PGAP2 gene. Both patients exhibited elevated ALP levels. Brain MRI of patient 1 revealed periventricular hyperintense signal foci, while patient 2 showed cerebral atrophy and basal ganglia diffusion restriction.HPMRS3 and HPMRS4 share clinical features including elevated ALP levels, developmental delay, seizures, and facial dysmorphisms. Although joint hypermobility is not a common feature of HPMRS3, it was observed in our patients. Both patients responded well to high-dose pyridoxine, suggesting a potential therapeutic benefit for seizure management. This report expands the understanding of HPMRS by presenting novel genetic findings and providing insights into the clinical presentation of PGAP2- and PGAP3-related conditions.© 2025 S. Karger AG, Basel.
Inherited glycosylphosphatidylinositol biosynthesis defect is considered a subset of the congenital glycosylation disorder that results from mutations in the genes encoding proteins participating in glycosylphosphatidylinositol biosynthesis and modification. Glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchor proteins play important roles in numerous cellular processes including neurogenesis, cell adhesion, immune response, and signaling. Hyperphosphatasia with mental retardation syndrome-3 is one of the glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchor defects, characterized by moderate to severe intellectual disability, dysmorphic features, hypotonia, seizures, and persistent hyperphosphatasia. The aims of this study were to investigate the clinical implications of the PGAP2 gene and identify the severe phenotype.A male patient with dysmorphic features, neurodevelopmental delay, seizures, hearing loss, Hirschsprung disease, central fever, and elevated alkaline phosphatase was included in the study. The magnetic resonance imaging showed cerebral atrophy and corpus callosum hypoplasia. The whole-exome sequencing analysis of the individual and Sanger sequencing were performed for segregation. Additionally, next-generation sequencing, whole transcriptome sequencing, and homology modeling and analysis were performed. Whole-exome sequencing revealed a homozygous c.651C>G (p.His217Gln) in the PGAP2 gene. The Sanger sequencing confirmed the parents were heterozygous. There is no splicing variant detected by whole transcriptome sequencing. The AlphaFold model was interpreted hypothetically. It observed the substitution of histidine, with glutamine, and may affect the stability of protein.Homozygous PGAP2 mutations in the patient we reported in our study resulted in a severe clinical picture including severe developmental delay and intellectual disability, severe epilepsy, dysmorphic features, central fever, biochemical, hormonal, and immunological abnormalities. This patient would be the youngest case published in the literature. We showed that the instability of mutant PGAP2 protein that causes hyperphosphatasia with mental retardation syndrome-3 leads to more severe phenotypes.© 2024 S. Karger AG, Basel.
Panax ginseng C. A. Meyer (P. ginseng) is a medicinal plant rich in bioactive components such as ginsenosides, polysaccharides, and volatile oils and is widely used in both the pharmaceutical and food industries. While the AP2/ERF gene family is well-documented to play crucial roles in plant growth, development, and defense responses, functional studies on this gene family in P. ginseng remain unreported. Our genome-wide analysis identified 318 PgAP2/ERF family members, which are classified into five subfamilies: AP2, DREB, ERF, RAV, and Soloist. Homology analysis revealed that segmental duplication serves as the primary evolutionary driver for the PgAP2/ERF gene family in P. ginseng. RT-qPCR analysis demonstrated that all PgAP2/ERF members in the DREB-A1 subgroup respond to cold stress. Specifically, we found that the DREB-A1 member PgAP2/ERF187 plays a pivotal role in the cold stress response, with its expression specifically induced by ABA. Overexpression of PgAP2/ERF187 in Arabidopsis significantly enhanced the expression of cold tolerance-related genes. Subcellular localization analysis confirmed the co-localization of PgABF and PgAP2/ERF187 in the nucleus. Combining transcription factor interaction predictions and yeast one-hybrid experiments, we propose that PgABF likely regulates PgAP2/ERF187 expression by directly binding to its promoter region. These findings unveil the potential mechanism of the "PgABF-PgAP2/ERF187" regulatory module within the ABA signaling pathway during P. ginseng's cold stress adaptation, thereby providing novel theoretical insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying P. ginseng's cold resistance.
Heart failure (HF) is a heterogeneous syndrome with diverse etiologies, yet the metabolic determinants specific to its subtype remain unclear. We performed an integrative multi-omics analysis combining metabolomics, genetics, and single-cell transcriptomics to characterize metabolic signatures of distinct HF subtypes. By applying Mendelian randomization of 1,091 circulating metabolites, we identified distinct metabolic patterns: lipid metabolites, particularly sphingolipids, were associated with increased HF risk, while tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle intermediates exhibited potential protective effects. Subtype-specific differences included lipid remodeling in coronary heart disease (CHD)-related HF, TCA metabolism in hypertension (HTN)-related HF, and amino acid pathways in overweight-related HF. Integrative analyses highlighted candidate regulators such as UPP1, NEU3, CBS, SHMT1, PLD2, OGDHL, and SULT1A1/2. Single-cell data revealed cardiomyocyte-enriched expression of OGDHL, which was consistently downregulated in experimental HF models. These findings provide insight into metabolic heterogeneity in HF and identify OGDHL as a potential regulator of cardiac metabolic remodeling.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Tumor cells shape the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME) through coordinated interactions with tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs), regulatory T cells (Tregs), immune checkpoint pathways and suppressive cytokines, thereby limiting the efficacy of immunotherapy across diverse cancer types. Phospholipase D (PLD) enzymes, particularly the PLD1 and PLD2 isoforms, have been implicated in oncogenic signaling and tumor progression; however, their tumor-intrinsic roles in modulating the immune landscape remain largely undefined. Here we demonstrated that both genetic ablation and pharmacological inhibition of PLD1 and PLD2 reprogram the TME and enhance antitumor immunity in a syngeneic melanoma model. Elevated PLD expression is associated with increased infiltration of M2-like TAMs, decreased 'eat me' signals and enhanced 'don't eat me' signals. Conversely, loss or inhibition of PLD1 and PLD2 reduced Treg recruitment and enhanced infiltration of Th1, Th17 and cytotoxic CD8⁺ T cells, accompanied by downregulation of immune checkpoint molecules and restoration of T cell effector function. Depletion studies revealed that PLD-driven TAM polarization critically impairs CD8⁺ T cell-mediated antitumor responses. Mechanistically, PLD1 and PLD2 enhance CCL19 secretion, promote macrophage polarization toward an immunosuppressive phenotype and induce programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression by activating the PI3K-Akt-NF-κB signaling axis, thereby promoting tumor immune evasion. Notably, PLD inhibition reduced CCL19 production, abrogated IFN-γ- or CCL19-induced PD-L1 expression, decreased TAM infiltration and increased CD8⁺ T cell infiltration, collectively shifting the TME toward an immune-activated state. These findings suggest that tumor-intrinsic PLD1 and PLD2 function as modulators of immune suppression and that PLD inhibition represents a promising strategy to overcome resistance to cancer immunotherapy.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42220495 is a review article
The tumor microenvironment, including extracellular pH (pHe), has emerged as a key regulator of tumor cellular function. Although extracellular acidification sensing and function are well established, the effect of extracellular alkalinization on cellular functioning remains unclear. Here, we report that transient receptor potential ankyrin 1 (TRPA1) functions as an alkaline sensor and mediator of cell death in melanoma cells. Exposure to alkaline pHe (8.1) or allyl isothiocyanate (AITC), a TRPA1 agonist, significantly reduced melanoma cell viability. We found that cell death was propidium iodide-positive and annexin V-negative, suggesting that pHe or AITC treatment induced necrosis rather than apoptosis. TRPA1 activation induced sustained Ca2+ influx, which was suppressed by either extracellular Ca2+ removal or treatment with the TRPA1 inhibitor, HC-030031, both of which attenuated cell death. Pharmacological screening has identified phosphatidylcholine-specific phospholipase D1 (PLD1) as a positive regulator of cell death. We confirmed that transfection with PLD1 siRNA significantly reduced AITC-induced cell death, whereas PLD2, PLD3, and NAPE-PLD siRNAs had no effect. These observations suggest that the vulnerability of melanoma cells to alkaline pHe is mediated by activation of the TRPA1-PLD1 axis. Thus, TRPA1 and PLD1 are potential targets for therapeutic intervention in melanoma.
Progression through the cell cycle requires coordinated regulation of transcription, chromatin state, and cellular metabolism. While metabolic enzymes are known to localize the nucleus and influence chromatin states, how nuclear metabolism itself oscillates during the cell cycle remains unexplored. Here, we combine a customized FUCCI-3 reporter with chromatome mass spectrometry and high-throughput imaging to systematically resolve nuclear and chromatin-associated metabolic changes across cell cycle phases. We identify phosphatidylinositol metabolism as a nuclear pathway that oscillates with the cell cycle, with PIP5K1A, PLCD3, and PLD2 showing phase-specific nuclear and chromatin dynamics. Nuclear PIP2 levels redistribute within the nucleus depending on cell cycle stage. Downregulation of PIP5K1A reduces nuclear PIP2 levels, whereas nuclear enrichment of PIP5K1A increases PIP2 abundance in the nucleus and nucleolus, functionally linking PIP5K1A nuclear localization to nuclear PIP2 synthesis. Moreover, perturbation of nuclear PIP2 synthesis alters chromatin methylation, with a pronounced impact on H4K20 monomethylation. Together, our results reveal that nuclear phosphatidylinositol metabolism is cell cycle regulated and functionally linked to chromatin methylation, establishing nuclear lipid metabolism as a previously unrecognized layer of cell cycle control.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41794599
The rise in electronic waste from the electronics industry has increased environmental and health risks. Pollutants like tris(2-chloroethyl) phosphate (TCEP) and lead (Pb) are particularly concerning for their harmful effects on aquatic life and human health. In the current study, zebrafish were exposed to Pb (190 μg/L) and TCEP (350, 3500, 35000 μg/L) from 4 to 120 hours post-fertilization. Mortality, hatching rate, spinal curvature, and spontaneous movement were observed. qRT-PCR was used to detect neurodevelopmental gene expression. Neurotransmitter levels (serotonin, dopamine, acetylcholine) were measured by ELISA, Pb absorption by ICP-MS, and metabolic changes by metabolomics. Our results indicated that lower doses of TCEP and Pb had no significant effect on spinal curvature or movement. However, high-dose TCEP (35000 μg/L) combined with Pb (190 μg/L) significantly increased spinal curvature (P < 0.001), inhibited movement (P < 0.05), decreased body length (P < 0.01), and reduced heart rate (P < 0.01). Gene expression related to spinal and neurodevelopment was downregulated (P < 0.05), and 5-HT levels increased (P < 0.05). The combined effect of Pb and TCEP was synergistic. Metabolomics showed differential metabolites in lipid pathways, with significant increases in pld1 and pld2 gene expression (P < 0.05). In conclusion, High-dose TCEP combined with Pb exposure synergistically affects early zebrafish development, particularly the spine and nervous system, potentially through glycerophospholipid metabolism and the phospholipase D signaling pathway.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) performs key roles in preserving retinal integrity and must continuously manage oxidative stress (OS). We previously demonstrated that the canonical phospholipase D isoforms, PLD1 and PLD2, mediate the RPE inflammatory response triggered by inflammatory injury. This study explores the mechanisms of modulation of OS mediated by PLD inhibition in RPE cells exposed to high glucose (HG) levels. ARPE-19, D407 and the novel human RPE cell line ABC were cultured under HG (33 mM) or normal glucose (NG, 5.5 mM) conditions. To inhibit PLD1, PLD2, and NADPH oxidase (NOX), VU0359595 (PLD1i), VU0285655-1 (PLD2i), and diphenyleneiodonium chloride (DPI) were used, respectively. HG exposure significantly increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels and reduced mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) in ARPE-19 and D407 cells. These effects were prevented by PLD1i and PLD2i in an Nrf-2 and cyclooxygenase-2 -independent manner. In ARPE-19 cells, DPI prevented OS induced by HG as well as the stress triggered by the combination of phosphatidic acid + diacylglycerol, bioactive lipids generated through the PLD pathway-. Similarly, HG elevated ROS levels in ABC cells, and this increase was prevented by PLD1i and DPI. RNAseq analysis showed differential expression of NOX family members (NOX1,2 and 4 and DUOX1 and 2) in ARPE-19 and ABC cells. Our results demonstrate that PLDs inhibition prevent HG-induced OS in RPE cells, possibly by reducing NOX activity. The PLD pathway constitutes a novel pharmacological target to simultaneously mitigate OS and the inflammatory response, two hallmarks of retinal degenerative diseases.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Biphasic molecular adaptations in pyramidal neurons (PNs) projecting from prelimbic (PL) cortex to the nucleus accumbens (NAc) (PL→NAc PNs) are hallmarks of early withdrawal vs. later abstinence from cocaine. However, whether biphasic electrophysiological changes accompany these molecular adaptations is unknown. Here we investigated sex-specific, ex vivo physiological neuroadaptations in Drd1 (PLD1)- and Drd2 (PLD2)-expressing PL→NAc PNs 2 hr or 7 days after cessation of cocaine self administration. Drd1- and Drd2-Cre+ transgenic male and female rats with virally labeled PL→NAc neurons were trained to self administer cocaine followed by two hours of withdrawal or one week of forced abstinence with or without a cue-induced cocaine- seeking test. Intrinsic excitability was increased selectively in PLD1→NAc PNs of males, but not females, after 2 hr of withdrawal and 7d of abstinence that was normalized by cue-induced relapse. Increased sEPSC frequency (measure of presynaptic glutamate release) in PLD1→NAc PNs and decreased AMPA/NMDA ratio (measurement of excitatory synaptic strength) in PLD2→NAc PNs in males, not females, was present during early withdrawal but normalized as abstinence progressed. In females, not males, an increased AMPA/NMDA ratio occurred after 7d of abstinence that was normalized by cue-induced relapse to cocaine seeking. In contrast to findings in heroin-abstinent rats, PKA inhibition using Rp-cAMPs had no effect on augmented intrinsic excitability of PL→NAc PNs after 7d abstinence. However, RP-cAMPs reversed cocaine-augmented AMPA/NMDA ratio exclusively in PLD1→NAc PNs of females. These data reveal that cocaine abstinence-induced physiological neuroadaptations in PLD1→NAc PNs are normalized by cue-induced cocaine seeking in a sex-specific manner.
Exosomes critically regulate pre-metastatic niche formation and tumor metastasis in colorectal cancer (CRC). Our prior research revealed that RALY, an RNA-binding protein, regulates exosome biogenesis during CRC metastasis. Furthermore, we recently demonstrated that Astragaloside IV (ASIV) inhibits CRC metastasis by suppressing tumor exosome release in a dose-dependent manner. However, its pharmacological targets and mechanisms remain unclear. Exosomes derived from MC38 cells with/without ASIV treated were characterized and quantified using NanoSight analysis, transmission electron microscopy (TEM), and Western blot (WB). The regulatory roles of ASIV and RALY in exosome biogenesis were assessed by immunofluorescence (IF) staining. RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP) and co-immunoprecipitation (co-IP) assays identified RALY-interacting partners, while methylated RIP measured m6A levels on PLD2 transcripts. Liver metastasis model in mice was established by injecting MC38 or shRALY single cell suspension into the spleen of mice to observe the effect of ASIV on CRC liver metastasis. Limited Proteolysis-Small Molecule Mapping (LiP-SMap) screened ASIV-binding proteins, followed by molecular docking and cellular thermal shift assays (CETSA) to confirm direct target interactions. ASIV reduced RALY levels in CRC cells, inhibiting exosome release. Mechanistically, ASIV disrupted the RALY-PLD2 interaction, regulating exosome biogenesis. TERT was identified as a direct ASIV target, blocking RALY transcription due to its nuclear translocation function. In vivo experiments showed that ASIV attenuated liver metastasis by down-regulating RALY and inhibiting exosome release through disrupting RBM15b-driven m6A modification of PLD2. Our findings revealed that ASIV mitigated CRC liver metastasis by downregulating the RALY/PLD2 axis, which was instrumental in exosome biogenesis. This discovery furnished compelling experimental evidence supporting the clinical utility of ASIV in combating CRC metastasis. Significantly, our research underscored the substantial advantages of targeting exosome-mediated metastasis, thereby highlighting the necessity for subsequent clinical validation.© 2025 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Mitochondria are key signaling hubs; however, whether mitochondrial mass expansion is mechanistically required for differentiation remains an open question. AGPAT2 catalyzes the conversion of lysophosphatidic acid into phosphatidic acid, and its deficiency leads to adipose tissue deficiency and impaired adipogenesis associated with reduced mitochondrial mass. The impact of mitochondrial mass expansion on adipogenesis was assessed by transferring exogenous mitochondria into differentiating brown adipocytes. Whether mitochondrial transfer could rescue the impaired adipogenesis of AGPAT2-deficient cells was also investigated. Human and murine mitochondria were successfully transferred and incorporated into the endogenous mitochondrial network of differentiating mouse preadipocytes and persisted throughout brown adipogenesis. Adipogenic differentiation was required for the retention of transferred mitochondria. Mitochondrial transfer did not modify the expression of molecular markers of mature brown adipocytes or lipid droplet content, although it affected the relative distribution of lipid droplet size in a species-dependent manner. In Agpat2-/- preadipocytes, mitochondrial transfer failed to rescue adipogenesis, indicating that mitochondrial mass expansion alone is insufficient to reverse the mechanisms leading to lipodystrophy in this model. These results indicate that, although exogenous human and murine mitochondria can be incorporated into the mitochondrial network of differentiating adipocytes, they do not directly influence the adipogenic program.
Fat deposition plays an important role in yak metabolism, reproduction, and meat quality, and male yaks are often castrated to facilitate management and improve production performance. The effect of castration on the characteristics of fat deposition in male yaks and the molecular mechanisms of action was explored in this study. The subcutaneous fat thickness in castrated and common male yaks was measured, further the content of fatty acids in yak subcutaneous fat was detected using gas chromatography-mass spectrometer (GC-MS); the transcriptome, metabolome in the yak subcutaneous fat were detected using mRNA-Sequencing, ultra-high performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (UHPLC-MS/MS), respectively; the integrative analyses of differentially expressed genes (DEGs), different metabolites (DMs), fatty acids and fat thickness were carried out. The results showed that castration can strengthen the ability of fat deposition and improve the content of fatty acids, especially PUFAs, in male yaks, and both transcriptome and metabolome were significantly different between castrated male yaks and common male yaks. The effect of castration on the male yak fat deposition was closely related to the PPAR signaling pathway, citrate cycle, and insulin resistance. Data suggests that FASN, ACACA, AGPAT2, ACLY, ACSL5, SCD, GSK3B, and SLC2A4 may be the crucial control genes for the fat amount in yaks, and that FADS2, LPL, and ACSL4 may be the crucial control genes for the polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) content in yak adipose tissue. Further functional studies will be conducted to determine the specific role of each gene in regulating fat deposition and fatty acid composition in yaks.
Congenital Generalized Lipodystrophy (CGL), usually caused by pathogenic variants in AGPAT2 (CGL1) and BSCL2 (CGL2), is characterized by near-total loss of subcutaneous adipose tissue, low leptin levels and severe metabolic and systemic comorbidities. Skeletal abnormalities including diffuse sclerosis, lytic-appearing bone lesions, and high bone mineral density have been recognized in CGL, but the prevalence and clinical and radiological features of these bone phenotypes remain ill-defined. The aim of this single-institution case series and systematic review was to evaluate bone manifestations and radiological findings associated with CGL1 and CGL2. Data sources were PubMed, Scopus, Embase, CINAHL Plus, Global Index Medicus, Web of Science: Core, National Institutes of Health medical records. Articles were screened utilizing a dual reviewer process in Covidence. Included publications reported primary bone and radiologic findings in patients with CGL1 or CGL2. Two reviewers extracted data using REDCap and assessed risk of bias. 43 articles were included in the review, presenting 214 cases of CGL (90 CGL1, 81 CGL2, and 43 genetics not reported). Data from NIH patients was extracted by retrospective chart review. The NIH cohort had 60 CGL patients (40 CGL1, 20 CGL2). Skeletal imaging included radiographs, MRI, CT, and NaF PET scans. In the literature and NIH cases, respectively, diffuse osteosclerosis was reported in 37% and 39%, lytic-appearing lesions in 64% and 53%, and high bone mineral density in 68% and 43%. Individuals with CGL1 and CGL2 present with distinct and heterogeneous bone phenotypes including lytic-appearing lesions primarily affecting long bones, diffuse osteosclerosis, and high bone mineral density. These bone manifestations are often overlooked despite high prevalence and clinical relevance. Potential mechanisms include increased differentiation of bone marrow mesenchymal cells into osteocytes and effects of increased insulin or decreased leptin signaling.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Society for Bone and Mineral Research.
Cervical squamous cell carcinoma and endocervical adenocarcinoma (CESC) are the primary histological subtypes of cervical cancer. Although the AGPAT family of enzymes is implicated in various cancer types, the specific roles of its members in cervical cancer remain unclear. In the present study, we investigated the value of AGPAT1-5 as potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets in cervical cancer by assessing their impact on disease development and outcomes. AGPAT gene expression data and clinical information from 306 patients with CESC and three control subjects were collected from The Cancer Genome Atlas. Given the limited number of normal cervical samples in TCGA (n = 3), we utilized the GEPIA database to integrate GTEx normal cervical samples (n = 10) as controls for differential expression analysis. These data were analyzed for differential gene expression, gene-gene and protein-protein interactions, prognostic and diagnostic value, clinical correlations, functional enrichment, and various tumor-infiltrating immune cell types. Validation was performed using two independent Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) datasets (GSE6791 and GSE63514). The study revealed that AGPAT4 mRNA expression was significantly downregulated in cervical cancer tissues compared to normal tissues in the GEPIA analysis, while AGPAT1, AGPAT2, AGPAT3, and AGPAT5 showed no significant differences. Validation in GEO datasets demonstrated that AGPAT1, AGPAT2, and AGPAT3 were consistently downregulated in tumor tissues, whereas AGPAT5 was upregulated, and AGPAT4 showed no significant change. High levels of AGPAT3 and AGPAT4 expression, in particular, were associated with a worse prognosis in CESC patients. Immune infiltration analysis restricted to CESC samples revealed that AGPAT3 expression was significantly correlated with multiple immune cell types, including positive correlations with Macrophages M1, T cells CD4 memory resting, and Monocytes. Furthermore, guided by functional enrichment analysis implicating immune-related pathways, we examined the correlation between AGPAT3 expression and key T cell regulatory molecules, including FOXP3, IL2RA, IKZF2, and CCR8, revealing significant positive associations. In vitro assays demonstrated that knocking out AGPAT3 expression significantly decreased the proliferation and migration of HeLa and C-33 A cervical cancer cell line. These results suggest that AGPAT3 could be a valuable biomarker and a promising therapeutic target in cervical cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
Congenital generalized lipodystrophy (CGL) is a rare disorder marked by near-total loss of adipose tissue and severe metabolic disturbances due to leptin deficiency and the inability to store nutrients in adipose tissue effectively. Metreleptin is the only approved leptin replacement therapy for this condition. Here we present the >20-year follow-up of two sisters with CGL type 1 (AGPAT2 deficiency, OMIM# 608594), enrolled in early metreleptin trials. Clinical outcomes, adherence, immunogenicity, and pregnancies were assessed. Both cases showed rapid and sustained metabolic improvement after metreleptin initiation, allowing insulin discontinuation and triglyceride normalization. Menstrual cycles resumed within six months; allowing both to carry successful pregnancies while continuing metreleptin. Both cases experienced reduced treatment adherence over time, linked to psychological distress. One case developed both anti-drug antibodies and neutralizing activity through immune based assay after 14 years, but without significant clinical impact. In conclusion, these cases highlight both the sustained metabolic benefits of therapy and the complex challenges that may arise over time, such as antibody formation and difficulties in maintaining long-term adherence. Documentation of unmet medical needs can provide guidance and impetus for improved therapeutic approaches to achieve optimum quality of life.Copyright © 2026 Van der Borght, Van der Schueren, Vangoitsenhoven, Cassiman, Akinci, Brown, Oral, Mertens and Martens.
The molecular mechanisms regulating the phospholipid (PL) metabolism in the nucleus remain to be elucidated. Here, we describe the role of Dop1a in controlling PL abundance in nuclear membranes (NMs) under the control of mTOR signaling. A shortage of lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) triggers the rapid localization of Dop1a to the nuclear pore complexes (NPCs), where Dop1a suppresses PL synthesis by binding to AGPAT2 (1-acylglycerol-3-phosphate O-acyltransferase 2), which is also localized at the NPCs. Loss of Dop1a results in elevated PL production, which leads to the formation of nuclear lipid droplets (nLDs). The titration of PL abundance is coordinated with proper cell cycle entry by Dop1a that restricts nuclear accumulation of CDK2. Thus, Dop1a safeguards cell division via surveilling the PL supply. Dop1a is highly expressed in neurons and is essential for neurobehavioral development in mice. DOP1A mutations have been identified in patients with neurodevelopmental disorders (NDDs). Thus, the proper function of Dop1a is crucial for the proper development of the nervous system.© 2026 The Author(s).
BACKGROUND: Wilson disease (WD) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder caused by mutations in ATP7B, leading to impaired copper metabolism. Although WD is classically considered a monogenic disease, patients carrying identical ATP7B mutations frequently exhibit striking variability in clinical presentation, age at onset, and treatment outcomes. This heterogeneity is thought to be shaped by variants in modifier genes involved in copper homeostasis and copper-induced cell death, as well as by polymorphisms in drug-metabolizing enzymes that may influence therapeutic response and prognosis. METHODS AND RESULTS: To investigate the genetic contributors to this inherent variability, we examined three unrelated WD patients who were all homozygous for the ATP7B p.Cys271X mutation but differed markedly in age at onset, clinical features, and responses to therapy. Whole-exome sequencing revealed distinct pathogenic variants across several putative modifier loci, including NOS2, APOE, CYP2D6, AGPAT2, ABCB4, APOB, FASN, AQP1, CYP1A1, ACSL4, STEAP3, NOX3, NQO1, LOXL3, ANKK1, and PNPO. These gene-specific differences aligned with the patients’ diverse clinical manifestations, supporting the hypothesis that modifier variants play a meaningful role in shaping WD severity, age at onset, and pharmacological outcomes. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings emphasize that, despite its Mendelian inheritance, WD exhibits substantial genetic complexity driven by modifier loci, underscoring the potential for genotype-guided, personalized management strategies. We acknowledge that this study results are exploratory in nature and limited by the small sample size (N = 3); however, the rarity of WD and the difficulty of identifying and recruiting individuals who are homozygous for the same pathogenic ATP7B variant—and for whom detailed longitudinal phenotypic and therapeutic data are available—pose significant challenges to conducting larger-scale investigations.
Congenital generalized lipodystrophy (CGL) type 1, caused by mutations in 1-acylglycerol-3-phosphate O-acyltransferase 2 (AGPAT2), is characterized by near-total absence of adipose tissue and severe metabolic disturbances, including hepatic steatosis, insulin resistance, and hypertriglyceridemia. Although AGPAT2's enzymatic function in lysophosphatidic acid acylation during glycerolipid biosynthesis is well characterized, the molecular mechanisms driving disease pathogenesis remain incompletely understood. In this study, significant up-regulation of glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase 3 (GPAT3), in both embryonic fibroblasts and liver tissue from AGPAT2-deficient mice, was identified. Through generation of Agpat2/Gpat3 double-knockout mice, it was demonstrated that GPAT3 ablation leads to multiple metabolic improvements: enhanced survival rates, partial preservation of adipose tissue (with more pronounced effects in brown than white adipose depots), marked attenuation of hepatic steatosis accompanied by reduced inflammation and fibrosis, and amelioration of hyperglycemia and hyperinsulinemia. Neonatal analyses demonstrated that GPAT3 deletion delayed adipose tissue degeneration while markedly decreasing macrophage infiltration (F4/80+ cells) and apoptotic signaling (terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling-positive cells). Ultrastructural examination revealed improved adipocyte morphology with normalized organelle architecture. These results identify GPAT3 as a key metabolic regulator in AGPAT2 deficiency, demonstrating that its inhibition partially restores adipose tissue and liver function. The conserved benefits of GPAT3 deficiency in both CGL1/AGPAT2 and CGL2/Seipin models highlight GPAT3 as a promising therapeutic target for congenital lipodystrophies.Copyright © 2026 American Society for Investigative Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41841805 is a review article
Sheep (Ovis aries) tail fat serves as a crucial energy reserve for adapting to harsh environments. However, excessive deposition can reduce farming efficiency and product quality. Elucidating the regulatory mechanisms of tail fat deposition is of great significance for genetic improvement in sheep.In this study, transcriptome sequencing was conducted on tail fat tissues from fat-tailed Kazakh sheep (KAZ), thin-tailed Suffolk sheep (SFK), and their F2 hybrid sheep (CSH) (3 individuals per group). Subsequently, qRT-PCR validation, Enrichr, and KEGG database analyses were performed to investigate the molecular pathways involved in tail fat deposition.High-quality clean reads were obtained from sequencing, with a genome alignment rate ranging from 76.15% to 79.43% and good data reproducibility. Differential expression analysis revealed multiple differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between KAZ and CSH groups, KAZ and SFK groups, as well as SFK and CSH groups. Five core candidate genes (BDH1, EPHX1, BCAT2, FASN, ACACA) were identified, all enriched in the fatty acid synthesis pathway and highly expressed in fat-tailed sheep, which was confirmed by qRT-PCR. Additionally, 189 lncRNAs were identified to collectively regulate target genes (e.g., FABP family, AGPAT2), along with three common differentially expressed miRNAs (novel_120, novel_171, novel_440) targeting genes enriched in lipid transport and lipid droplet formation pathways.This study confirms that the lncRNA-mRNA-miRNA regulatory axis is a key pathway in tail fat formation, providing important theoretical support and molecular targets for genetic improvement of ovine tail fat deposition traits.
Neurogenesis is characterized by dynamic structural changes and functional remodeling of multiple organelles, which interact to form an intricate network that precisely modulates processes including neural progenitor cell self-renewal, neurogenesis, and terminal neuronal development. However, the spatiotemporal dynamics of peroxisomes and their functional contributions within this regulatory network remain incompletely defined during mammalian cortical development. Here, we found that radial glial cells (RGCs) exhibit enriched peroxisome abundance, whereas neural differentiation is associated with reduced peroxisome numbers and increased pexophagy, accompanied by the remodeling of lipid metabolic programs. Acute disruption of peroxisomes by PLAAT3-PEX11 impaired neural differentiation in the embryonic mouse cortex, while PEX7 knockout compromised neurogenic progression in human cortical organoids, supporting a conserved requirement for peroxisomal function during cortical development. Lipidomic and imaging analyses revealed that peroxisome-derived ether lipids were essential for driving neural differentiation and were specifically enriched in mitochondria. Consistently, knockdown of Gnpat, which catalyzes the initial step of ether lipid biosynthesis, reduced neural differentiation, and disrupted mitochondrial structure and function, while batyl alcohol supplementation partially restored these defects. Mechanistically, the ether lipids maintain the structural integrity of mitochondrial cristae and thereby support respiratory chain activity, which in turn promotes oxidative phosphorylation and activates the NAD+ associated signaling. Collectively, this work highlights the precise spatiotemporal regulation of neurogenesis through peroxisomal dynamics and interorganelle crosstalk and identifies ether lipids as a potential therapeutic target for neurodevelopmental disorders.
[This corrects the article DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2026.1765930.].Copyright © 2026 Hu, Zhang, Wang, Wang, Shi, Yao, Hou and Jiang.
Barth Syndrome (BTHS) is an inherited mitochondrial cardiomyopathy caused by variants in the gene encoding TAFAZZIN (Taz), a transacylase catalyzing the synthesis of the essential mitochondrial phospholipid cardiolipin (CL). Although defects in Taz deteriorate mitochondrial respiration, Ca2+-uptake, and redox regulation in cardiac myocytes, we previously observed an unexpected lack of oxidative cardiac damage, despite the development of cardiomyopathy in a BTHS mouse model with Taz-knockdown (KD). Furthermore, we revealed that the integrated stress response (ISR) governs metabolic rewiring in Taz-KD hearts to compensate for deficient mitochondrial FAO and to support GSH production. Here, we interrogated whether adaptive mechanisms in peroxisomes, which are closely associated with mitochondria and harbor antioxidative enzymes, can also compensate for the mitochondrial defects. We identified alterations in the peroxisomal biogenesis factors PEX14 and PEX19, indicating changes in the peroxisomal proteome in Taz-KD vs. WT hearts. While the enzymes of peroxisomal FAO were unchanged, levels of Lon Protease 2 (LONP2) and catalase were elevated in Taz-KD hearts. Inhibition or siRNA-mediated knockdown of catalase increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) and blunted the protection of mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEF) with Taz-knockout (KO), but not in WT, from ROS-induced activation of the apoptotic caspase 3. Furthermore, we observed that the increase in plasmalogen synthesis in cardiac Taz-KD peroxisomes contributes to the activation of the ISR, since siRNA-mediated knockdown of the key enzyme GNPAT blunted the ISR and thereby increased cellular ROS in Taz-KO, but not WT MEFs. In conclusion, peroxisomes facilitate a counterregulatory response to dysfunctional mitochondria by activating a catalase-driven ROS defense and maintaining ISR-mediated metabolic alterations, both of which compensate for mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress. Therefore, the so far poorly investigated mitochondrial-peroxisome crosstalk may represent a novel therapeutic target in an orphan disease with a poor prognosis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Plasmalogens are a unique class of glycerophospholipids defined by a distinctive vinyl ether bond. While these lipids are abundant in animals and important for human health, their evolutionary history remains enigmatic, mostly due to their absence in some major eukaryotic lineages like plants. Here, we resolve the origin and evolution of the aerobic plasmalogen biosynthesis pathway in eukaryotes. Through comprehensive phylogenomic analysis and experimental validation of enzyme activity and plasmalogen presence, we demonstrate that the essential desaturase plasmanylethanolamine desaturase 1 (PEDS1)-and likely the fatty acyl-CoA reductase (FAR) and glycerone phosphate O-acyltransferase (GNPAT) enzymes also critical in the pathway-were acquired by an early eukaryotic ancestor through horizontal gene transfer (HGT) from myxobacteria. Our data show that this bacterial pathway was retained in the Amorphea and Discoba supergroups but lost or replaced in others. The findings yield insights into how HGT shaped metabolic pathways in early eukaryotes.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a major threat to human health worldwide. Its suboptimal responses to current therapies are largely attributable to the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME) that dampens the efficiency of available treatments. Although metabolic reprogramming is regarded as a hallmark of HCC, the exact role of peroxisomal metabolism in immune evasion is poorly understood. By integrating bioinformatic analysis of TCGA-LIHC datasets and peroxisomal gene profiling, glyceronephosphate O-acyltransferase (GNPAT) was identified as a regulator of HCC pathogenesis. GNPAT was highly expressed in malignant tissues and positively associated with poor clinical outcomes and immunosuppressive cellular infiltration types. Functional experiments showed that GNPAT facilitated the proliferation, migration, and resistance to apoptosis of HCC cells in an autocrine manner via enhancing plasmalogen synthesis and downstream PPAR pathway activation. Interestingly, overexpression of GNPAT in HCC cells polarized macrophages to the M2-like phenotype and reinforced immunosuppressive TME through the plasmalogen-PPAR axis. An unrecognized mode of immunometabolic crosstalk mediated by peroxisomal metabolism in HCC was thereby revealed, providing a preclinical rationale and mechanistic basis for future exploration of GNPAT inhibition as a potential therapeutic strategy to antagonize immunosuppression and enhance antitumor immunity.Copyright © 2026 Hu, Zhang, Wang, Wang, Shi, Yao, Hou and Jiang.
Glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored proteins (GPI-APs) are attached to the cell surface via a glycolipid anchor, GPI, whose conserved core is synthesized from phosphatidylinositol (PI) in the endoplasmic reticulum through a series of enzymatic reactions. Most PI species in mammalian cells contain diacylglycerol, whereas GPI-APs predominantly possess 1-alkyl-2-acylglycerol. The basis for this characteristic lipid structure has remained unclear. Lipidomic analysis revealed that 1-alkyl-2-acyl PIs, although minor components of cellular PI, are preferentially used by GPI-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase, which catalyzes the first step of GPI biosynthesis. GPI intermediates containing 1-alkyl-2-acylglycerol were further enriched in subsequent biosynthetic steps, resulting in mature GPIs primarily harboring this lipid species. We demonstrate that a 1-alkyl-containing precursor lipid derived from peroxisomes, likely 1-alkyl-glyceronephosphate, contributes to the formation of 1-alkyl-2-acyl PIs. Disruption of glyceronephosphate O-acyltransferase (GNPAT) or alkylglycerone phosphate synthase (AGPS), the first two enzymes of the peroxisomal ether-lipid pathway, abolished 1-alkyl-2-acyl PI, yielding GPI-APs containing only diacylglycerol. Lipidomic profiling of GPI biosynthetic intermediates in GPI-defective cells revealed accumulation of defective-step-specific intermediates, enabling the use of this approach for diagnosing inherited GPI deficiency (IGD).Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The thyroid axis orchestrates key biological functions in fish, including metamorphosis. Disruption of thyroid signaling by endocrine disrupting compounds (EDCs), particularly estrogens, remains understudied during this sensitive period. This study compared the thyroidal effects of two estrogens: 17α-ethinylestradiol (EE2), a synthetic compound widely used in combined oral contraceptives (COCs), and estetrol (E4), a natural estrogen produced only during pregnancy and recently introduced as the estrogenic component of a new COC. Zebrafish (Danio rerio) were exposed to EE2 and E4 at concentrations ranging from 10 to 10,000x their respective measured (0.1 ng/L for EE2) or predicted (32 ng/L for E4) environmental levels from fertilization to 30 days post-fertilization (dpf). Samples were collected at 5 dpf for proteomic analysis to assess effects on thyroid organogenesis and early function, and at 14, 22, and 30 dpf to evaluate growth, thyroid histology, hormone levels, and transcriptomic profiles, thereby examining the effects on thyroid function throughout metamorphosis. Proteomic analysis at 5 dpf showed no disruption of thyroid organogenesis or function following exposure to either estrogen. However, both compounds induced concentration-dependent differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) linked to key developmental and metabolic pathways, with possible long-term effects on metamorphosis. DEPs were mainly associated with Rab signaling (RAB23, RAB35B, RAB38B), retinoic acid metabolism (CRABP1B, RDH5, RDH10A/B), mTOR signaling (RHEB, IGF1RB, BCL2A), oxidative stress (GPX9, TXNRD2.2, DAO.1/2, GNPAT), and energy metabolism (COX15, COX4I2). During metamorphosis, EE2 (≥ 100 ng/L) significantly reduced larval growth and thyroid signaling activity, as shown by modulation of thyroid-axis gene expression. In contrast, E4 did not affect growth or thyroid structure up to 320,000 ng/L, and triggered only modest transcriptomic changes in thyroid-axis genes at 32,000 ng/L. This study represents the first comparative assessment of EE2 and E4 on fish thyroid using a multiparametric approach at early and later developmental stages. These findings demonstrate that while both compounds influenced early developmental and metabolic pathways, only EE2 disrupted thyroid signaling during metamorphosis and induced phenotypic impairments. E4 caused weaker effects on the thyroid axis and did not induce any observable metamorphic disruptions. Overall, E4 appears to pose a lower environmental risk despite its early proteomic impact.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Background: Intellectual disability (ID) is a heterogeneous condition caused by diverse genetic factors, including single-nucleotide variants (SNVs) and copy number variants (CNVs). Whole-exome sequencing (WES) and clinical exome sequencing (CES) have become essential tools for identifying pathogenic variants; however, their relative diagnostic performance in ID has not been fully characterized. Methods: Children diagnosed with ID or related neurodevelopmental disorders underwent WES or CES. Identified variants were classified according to ACMG/AMP and ClinGen guidelines, with segregation analysis performed when parental samples were available. Diagnostic yields were compared across demographic, prenatal, and phenotypic subgroups. A multidimensional semi-quantitative scoring system encompassing 15 clinical domains (e.g., age at onset, neuro-motor function, seizures, MRI findings, vision, and dysmorphic features) was developed. Z-scores were calculated for each parameter, followed by hierarchical cluster analysis (HCA) and correlation modeling to define genotype-phenotype associations and pathway-level clustering. Results: A broad spectrum of pathogenic and likely pathogenic variants across multiple genes and biological pathways was identified in our study. CNV-associated cases frequently exhibited prenatal anomalies or multisystem phenotypes associated with large chromosomal rearrangements. Monogenic variants and their corresponding phenotypic profiles were identified through clinical exome sequencing (CES) and whole-exome sequencing (WES). Phenotypic HCA based on Z-scores revealed three major biological groups of patients with coherent genotype-phenotype relationships: Group 1, severe multisystem neurodevelopmental disorders dominated by transcriptional and RNA-processing genes (POLR1C, TCF4, HNRNPU, NIPBL, ACTG1); Group 2, intermediate epileptic and metabolic forms associated with ion-channel and excitability-related genes (SCN2A, PAH, IQSEC2, GNPAT); and Group 3, milder or focal neurodevelopmental phenotypes involving myelination and signaling-related genes (NKX6-2, PLP1, PGAP3, SMAD6, ATP1A3). Gene distribution significantly differed among these biological categories (χ2 = 54.566, df = 34, p = 0.0141), confirming non-random, biologically consistent grouping. Higher Z-scores correlated with earlier onset and greater neurological severity, underscoring the clinical relevance of the multidimensional analytical framework. Conclusions: This study highlights the genetic complexity and clinical heterogeneity of intellectual disability and demonstrates the superior diagnostic resolution of WES and CES. Integrating multidimensional phenotypic profiling with genomic analysis enhances genotype-phenotype integration and enables data-driven phenotype stratification and pathway-based re-analysis. This combined diagnostic and analytical framework offers a more comprehensive approach to diagnosing monogenic ID and provides a foundation for future predictive and functional studies.
Our previous study revealed the role of glycerol phosphate O-acyltransferase (GNPAT) in regulating chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). However, its further mechanisms remained unclear. In this study, COPD models were established by exposing mice to cigarette smoke particulates. H&E staining and immunohistochemistry assays were performed on COPD tissue. A549 cells were stimulated with 5% cigarette smoke extract (CSE) and transfected with GNPAT, ubiquitin-specific protease 30 (USP30), and dynamin-related protein 1 (DRP1) plasmids. Cell viability, cell apoptosis, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release, ATP production, and reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels were determined using commercial kits. Quantitative real-time PCR and western blotting were used to evaluate mRNA and protein expression. Mitochondrial morphology was examined by transmission electron microscopy. A co-immunoprecipitation assay determined the binding relationships among GNPAT, USP30, and DRP1. Our results showed that GNPAT and DRP1 were highly expressed in the COPD model mice. CSE promoted mitochondrial fission, mitochondrial dysfunction, and cell apoptosis, which were further enhanced by treatment with a mitochondrial fission inducer (TA9). GNPAT promoted mitochondrial fission, mitochondrial dysfunction, and cell apoptosis by enhancing DPR1 protein stability, which depended on USP30. DRP1 enhanced mitochondrial fission, mitochondrial dysfunction, and cell apoptosis, which were both reversed by GNPAT/USP30 inhibition. Collectively, our present study found that GNPAT recruited USP30 and stabilized DRP1, thereby mediating mitochondrial fission and mitochondrial dysfunction that contributed to cell apoptosis in COPD. This study suggests a promising therapeutic biomarker for COPD.© 2025 The Author(s). The Kaohsiung Journal of Medical Sciences published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Kaohsiung Medical University.
Structural variations (SVs) play crucial roles in the evolutionary adaptation of domesticated animals to natural and human-controlled environments, but SVs have not been explored in Tibetan cattle, which recently migrated and rapidly adapted to the high altitudes of the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau (QTP). In this study, a de novo chromosome-level genome assembly for Tibetan cattle is constructed. It is found that using a lineage-specific reference genome significantly increased variant detection accuracy and completeness. Analysis of long-read sequencing data from 36 high-altitude QTP and 48 low-altitude cattle identified 222 528 SVs and 259 SV hotspot regions. Positively selected SVs in high-altitude cattle are related to energy metabolism erythropoiesis and angiogenesis, and peroxisomal metabolism. A 102-bp intronic deletion in GNPAT likely upregulated its expression. It is distinguished 7293 SVs that may be introgressed from yak, including variants upstream of the hypoxia-inducing gene EGLN1. Finally, a ≈2-Mb heterozygous inversion and two translocations on chromosome 6 are likely associated with the cattle gray coat via regulatory effects on the KIT gene. The results confirm the importance of SVs in evolutionary adaptation and the contribution yak-introgressed SVs to the rapid acclimatization of QTP cattle.© 2025 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
BACKGROUND: Antler is an important economic trait of sika deer (Cervus nippon), capable of rapid growth without signs of tumorigenesis. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying its unique growth pattern remain poorly understood. This study conducted a combined transcriptomic, proteomic, metabolomic and single-cell transcriptomic analysis of tip mesenchyme of antler at three key growth stages, early, middle, and late growth (EG, MG, LG), to explore the molecular characteristics during antler growth. RESULTS: Active post-transcriptional and post-translational regulation likely occurred during antler growth, as characterized by significant alternative splicing (AS) events and significant enrichment of post-transcriptional and post-translational regulatory functions at the protein level. The multi-level regulatory network constructed based on differentially expressed genes, proteins, and metabolites (DEGs, DEPs, DEMs) indicated continuous and extensive metabolic reprogramming in the glycerophospholipid metabolism pathway. PLA2G3, MBOAT2, LPCAT3, DGKI, and EPT1 were positioned at core nodes within this pathway. The qRT-PCR confirmed that these genes were predominantly expressed in MG, suggesting their role as crucial candidate genes involved in regulating the metabolic reprogramming. Analysis of single-cell transcriptomic data revealed that the MBOAT2, LPCAT3, DGKI, and EPT1 genes were expressed in key cell types such as chondroblasts, chondrocytes, osteoblasts, and mesenchymal cells. CONCLUSIONS: Integrated multi-omics analyses indicated that the rapid growth of antlers is closely associated with continuous metabolic reprogramming, involving multi-layered regulation of glycerophospholipid metabolism. This study established a foundational multi-omics resource, providing new perspectives for elucidating the molecular mechanisms of antler growth and for subsequent functional studies, while also offering novel insights for research on organ and tissue growth in animals.
Endogenous or adoptively transferred tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) often lose their functional capacity due to the activation of intrinsic inhibitory pathways, which then limits their ability to control tumor growth. In this study, we examined the effects of blocking a key intracellular inhibitory enzyme, diacylglycerol kinase (DGK) in human T cells, using a novel inhibitor (DGKi) called INCB165451 that blocks both DGKα and DGKζ, the two primary DGK isoenzymes that negatively regulate T cells through the diacylglycerol (DAG) signaling pathway. We first evaluated the effects of the DGKi in enhancing the efficacy of adoptive human T cell transfer in a non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) mouse model and found that the DGKi significantly potentiated anti-tumor efficacy through multiple mechanisms, including increased intratumoral T cell infiltration, upregulation of genes associated with inflammatory responses, and reduction of TIL hypofunction, as evidenced by enhanced cytokine production following ex vivo anti-CD3 antibody stimulation. We next studied the effects of the DGKi on human TILs derived from tumor digests or studied in situ in precision-cut tumor slices of both head and neck cancer and NSCLC patient samples. After stimulation of the TILs with anti-CD3 antibodies, we found that the DGKi enhanced gene and protein expression of proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines. Finally, we demonstrated that the DGKi could augment T cell activation in human tumor slices that were stimulated by an anti-EGFR/anti-CD3 bispecific T cell engager (BiTE). These data demonstrate strong activity of the DGKi in human TILs and highlight promising potential avenues for clinical translation.
Despite the identification of multiple susceptibility loci by genome-wide association studies (GWAS), considerable chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) heritability remains unexplained.To identify interaction networks of airway epithelial cell DNA methylation in COPD and further explore potential correlations with airway bacterial composition, as potentially collective regulators of biological pathways influencing COPD severity.Using DNA isolated from bronchial airway brushings of 67 ever-smokers (>20 pack-years) from the SubPopulations and InteRmediate Outcomes Measures in COPD Study (SPIROMICS), we assessed proportion of DNA methylation (β) by epigenome-wide association study (EWAS) and examined associations of differentially methylated CpG probes (DMPs) with risk for moderate-to-severe COPD (N=34) versus absent or mild COPD (N=33). We tested co-methylation modules generated by Weighted Correlation Network Analyses (WGCNA) for associations with moderate-to-severe COPD and with bacterial genus-level relative abundances (16S rRNA sequencing).EWAS-identified nominally significant DMPs enriched for lung function GWAS loci. Eigengenes in six WGCNA modules were associated with moderate-to-severe COPD (false discovery rate <0.05). Four of those modules were enriched for forced expiratory volume in 1 s/forced vital capacity GWAS loci, and five overlapped with DMPs from EWAS. Overlapping CpG loci in three COPD-associated modules were adjacent to mucin genes; one had 10 genes highly ranked by connectivity with MUC5B, including important pathway genes: B3GNT6, DGKI and ITGA8. CpGs in an independent COPD-associated module showed the most correlations with Rothia, with directionality suggestive of negative associations with moderate-severe COPD.Bronchial epithelial DNA methylation modules enriched for lung function GWAS loci associate with COPD severity in SPIROMICS. Potential module relationships to bronchial bacterial composition require further validation.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2025. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Lipid homeostasis is vital for maintaining testicular function and male fertility, but the specific contributions of lipid-regulating enzymes remain unclear. This study shows that DGKη, although highly expressed in the testis, is not essential for spermatogenesis but modulates testicular lipid metabolism in response to dietary conditions.Diacylglycerol kinase eta (DGKη), encoded by the Dgkh gene, catalyzes the phosphorylation of diacylglycerol to phosphatidic acid, both of which are key lipid second messengers. While Dgkh is highly expressed in the testis, particularly during spermatogenesis, its functional role in male fertility remains unclear. To investigate the role of DGKη in male fertility, we generated Dgkh -/- mice using CRISPR/Cas9-mediated genome editing and conducted comprehensive lipidomic profiling. In addition, under both normal and high-fat diet (HFD) conditions, we evaluated fertility, performed histological assessments, quantified DAG, PA, TG, and FFA levels, and analyzed the expression of other DGK isoforms via RT-qPCR. Our results showed that Dgkh was predominantly expressed in round spermatids. Dgkh -/- mice exhibited normal testis morphology, sperm parameters, and fertility under both standard and HFD conditions. However, lipidomic analysis revealed significant alterations in testicular lipid composition, including increased levels of DAG, triglycerides, phospholipids, and free fatty acids. Under HFD, Dgkh -/- mice showed exacerbated testicular lipid accumulation. Notably, expression of several other DGK isoforms (e.g. Dgka, Dgkd, Dgke, Dgki, and Dgkz) was upregulated, suggesting compensatory mechanisms that preserve spermatogenesis despite DGKη deficiency. These findings demonstrate that, despite its high expression in the testes and its role in regulating lipid metabolism, DGKη is not essential for male fertility or spermatogenesis under either normal or HFD conditions. These findings suggest the existence of compensatory mechanisms - likely involving other DGK isoforms - and offer new insights into the context-dependent functions of DGKη in testicular lipid homeostasis.
DNA methyltransferase (DNMT) inhibitors are emerging as a promising class of agents for personalized and targeted cancer therapy, particularly in malignancies with limited therapeutic options such as glioblastoma (GB). In GB, the MGMT/DGKI methylation profile serves as a biomarker for stratifying patients by treatment response. Specifically, the MGMTmethylated/DGKIunmethylated profile is associated with favorable outcomes, whereas the MGMTmethylated/DGKImethylated profile correlates with poor outcome. These findings suggest that selective demethylation of DGKI without altering MGMT or inducing widespread genomic hypomethylation, which may promote tumorigenesis, could represent a novel and more effective therapeutic strategy.Current DNMT inhibitors lack specificity for glioblastoma relevant methylation profiles, thereby limiting their therapeutic efficacy. To address this challenge, AlphaFold-based protein-protein interaction predictions were integrated with sequential chromatin immunoprecipitation assays and established DNMT1 interactome data. This integrative approach led to the identification of a DNMT1/ELK1 complex as a critical regulator of DGKI methylation. A peptide mimicking the DNMT1/ELK1 interface, designated EXDDNMT1/ELK1, was designed and shown to induce selective DGKI demethylation without altering MGMT or inducing global DNA hypomethylation. Notably, EXDDNMT1/ELK1 did note promote cellular proliferation or invasion, and successfully restored sensitivity to standard glioblastoma therapy in both cellular and in vivo models. These findings also support the use of MGMT and DGKI methylation levels in cell-free DNA as potential biomarkers to identify patients likely to benefit from EXDDNMT1/ELK1 treatment.This study identifies a clinically actionable biomarker (MGMTMethylated/DGKIMethylated), detectable in both solid and liquid biopsies, enabling patient stratification. Furthermore, it establishes EXDDNMT1/ELK1 as a highly selective epigenetic therapeutic agent to treat GB patients.© 2025. The Author(s).
Plumage color is a key trait for identifying waterfowl breeds with significant economic importance. A white-feathered group has recently emerged within the native Matahu duck population, presenting an opportunity for breeding new lines. However, the genetic basis for this plumage variation is still unknown, necessitating further research. This study aims to identify the genetic mechanisms underlying the emergence of white-feathered individuals in the Matahu duck population through combined genome and transcriptome analysis, providing insights for selective breeding and the development of new white-feathered lines. In this study, a total of 1344 selected genes and 1406 significantly differentially expressed genes were identified through selection signal analysis and transcriptomic analysis, respectively. The functional enrichment of these genes revealed several key signaling pathways, including those related to cGMP-PKG, cAMP, PI3K-Akt, and MAPK. Furthermore, important candidate genes involved in melanin biosynthesis, such as MITF, MC1R, TYR, TYRP1, and ABCB6, were identified. Notably, 107 genes were detected by both methods, and, among these, DGKI, GPRC5B, HMX1, STS, ADGRA1, PRKAR2B, and HOXB9 are suggested to play a role in melanin formation and potentially influence plumage traits. Through the integrative approach combining genomic selection signals and transcriptomic analyses, we identified several candidate genes directly associated with plumage color, including MITF, TYR, TYRP1, and MC1R, along with multiple signaling pathways linked to melanin formation. We hypothesize that the expression of DGKI, GPRC5B, HMX1, STS, ADGRA1, PRKAR2B, and HOXB9, detected by both methods, may be closely related to the regulation of plumage color traits. These findings provide a foundational basis for further research aimed at elucidating the genetic mechanisms governing plumage color variation in ducks.
Human pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes (hPSC-CMs) are advancing cardiovascular development and disease modeling, drug testing, and regenerative therapies. However, hPSC-CM production is hindered by significant variability in the differentiation process. Establishment of early quality markers to monitor lineage progression and predict terminal differentiation outcomes would address this robustness and reproducibility roadblock in hPSC-CM production. An integrated transcriptomic and epigenomic analysis assesses how attributes of the cardiac progenitor cell (CPC) affect CM differentiation outcome. Resulting analysis identifies predictive markers of CPCs that give rise to high purity CM batches, including TTN, TRIM55, DGKI, MEF2C, MAB21L2, MYL7, LDB3, SLC7A11, and CALD1. Predictive models developed from these genes provide high accuracy in determining terminal CM purities at the CPC stage. Further, insights into mechanisms of batch failure and dominant non-CM cell types generated in failed batches are elucidated. Namely EMT, MAPK, and WNT signaling emerge as significant drivers of batch divergence, giving rise to off-target populations of fibroblasts/mural cells, skeletal myocytes, epicardial cells, and a non-CPC SLC7A11+ subpopulation. This study demonstrates how integrated multi-omic analysis of progenitor cells can identify quality attributes of that progenitor and predict differentiation outcomes, thereby improving differentiation protocols and increasing process robustness.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Obesity is a major risk factor for a myriad of diseases, affecting >600 million people worldwide. Genome-wide association studies (GWASs) have identified hundreds of genetic variants that influence body mass index (BMI), a commonly used metric to assess obesity risk. Most variants are non-coding and likely act through regulating genes nearby. Here, we apply multiple computational methods to prioritize the likely causal gene(s) within each of the 536 previously reported GWAS-identified BMI-associated loci. We performed summary-data-based Mendelian randomization (SMR), FINEMAP, DEPICT, MAGMA, transcriptome-wide association studies (TWASs), mutation significance cutoff (MSC), polygenic priority score (PoPS), and the nearest gene strategy. Results of each method were weighted based on their success in identifying genes known to be implicated in obesity, ranking all prioritized genes according to a confidence score (minimum: 0; max: 28). We identified 292 high-scoring genes (≥11) in 264 loci, including genes known to play a role in body weight regulation (e.g., DGKI, ANKRD26, MC4R, LEPR, BDNF, GIPR, AKT3, KAT8, MTOR) and genes related to comorbidities (e.g., FGFR1, ISL1, TFAP2B, PARK2, TCF7L2, GSK3B). For most of the high-scoring genes, however, we found limited or no evidence for a role in obesity, including the top-scoring gene BPTF. Many of the top-scoring genes seem to act through a neuronal regulation of body weight, whereas others affect peripheral pathways, including circadian rhythm, insulin secretion, and glucose and carbohydrate homeostasis. The characterization of these likely causal genes can increase our understanding of the underlying biology and offer avenues to develop therapeutics for weight loss.Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Diacylglycerol kinases (DGKs) attenuate diacylglycerol (DAG) signaling by converting DAG to phosphatidic acid, thereby suppressing pathways downstream of T cell receptor signaling. Using a dual DGKα/ζ inhibitor (DGKi), tumor-specific CD8 T cells with different affinities (TRP1high and TRP1low), and altered peptide ligands, we demonstrate that inhibition of DGKα/ζ can lower the signaling threshold for T cell priming. TRP1high and TRP1low CD8 T cells produced more effector cytokines in the presence of cognate antigen and DGKi. Effector TRP1high- and TRP1low-mediated cytolysis of tumor cells with low antigen load required antigen recognition, was mediated by interferon-γ, and augmented by DGKi. Adoptive T cell transfer into mice bearing pancreatic or melanoma tumors synergized with single-agent DGKi or DGKi and antiprogrammed cell death protein 1 (PD-1), with increased expansion of low-affinity T cells and increased cytokine production observed in tumors of treated mice. Collectively, our findings highlight DGKα/ζ as therapeutic targets for augmenting tumor-specific CD8 T cell function.
Was polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), which impairs fertility and adheres to the evolutionary paradox, subject to evolutionary selection during ancestral times and did rapidly diminish in prevalence?This study strengthened the hypothesis that positive selection of genetic variants occurred and may account for the high prevalence of PCOS observed today.PCOS is a complex endocrine disorder characterized by both reproductive and metabolic disturbances. As a heritable disease that impairs fertility, PCOS should diminish rapidly in prevalence; however, it is the most common cause of female subfertility globally. Few scientific genetic studies have attempted to provide evidence for the positive selection of gene variants underlying PCOS.We performed an evolutionary analysis of 2,504 individuals from 14 populations of the 1000 Genomes Project.We tested the signature of positive selection for 37 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with PCOS in previous genome-wide association studies using six parameters of positive selection.Analyzing the evolutionary indices together, there was obvious positive selection at the PCOS-related SNPs loci, especially within the original evolution window of humans, demonstrated by significant Tajima's D values. Compared to the genome background, six of the 37 SNPs in or close to five genes (DENN domain-containing protein 1A: DENND1A, chromosome 9 open reading frame 3: AOPEP, aminopeptidase O: THADA, diacylglycerol kinase iota: DGKI, and netrin receptor UNC5C: UNC5C) showed significant evidence of positive selection, among which DENND1A, AOPEP, and THADA represent the set of most established susceptibility genes for PCOS.First, only well-documented SNPs were selected from well-designed experiments. Second, it is difficult to determine which hypothesis of PCOS evolution is at play. After considering the most significant functions of these genes, we found that they had a wide variety of functions with no obvious association between them.Our findings provide additional evidence for the positive evolution of PCOS. Our analyses require confirmation in a larger study with more evolutionary indicators and larger data range. Further research to identify the roles of the DENND1A, AOPEP, THADA, DGKI, and UNC5C genes is also necessary.This study was supported by the National Key Research and Development Program of China (2021YFC2700400 and 2021YFC2700701), Basic Science Center Program of NSFC (31988101), CAMS Innovation Fund for Medical Sciences (2021-I2M-5-001), National Natural Science Foundation of China (82192874, 31871509, and 82071606), Shandong Provincial Key Research and Development Program (2020ZLYS02), Taishan Scholars Program of Shandong Province (ts20190988), and Fundamental Research Funds of Shandong University. The authors have no conflicts of interest to disclose.N/A.© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.
Metabolism is critical for immune cell functions. Tumours shape their microenvironment to render it metabolically hostile for infiltrating immune cells. While targeting immunometabolism emerges as a promising way to reinvigorate anticancer immunity, a deeper understanding of the metabolic disturbances of immune cells is needed. Here, we explored how the metabolic status of T cells governs immune skewing from circulating and tumour-infiltrating CD4+ and CD8+ T cells of melanoma patients at a single-cell level using the SCENITH method and targeted metabolomics. Circulating and tumour-infiltrating T cells from patients displayed a decreased mitochondrial dependency associated with an enhanced glycolytic capacity and a skewed metabolic reprogramming upon stimulation. Such metabolic disturbances were linked to the activation status, immune checkpoint profile and functional orientation of T cells, underlining critical connections between T-cell features and metabolic patterns. Targeted metabolomics within sorted CD4+/CD8+ T cells identified a decrease in citrulline, cysteine and threonine within all subsets in patients, together with a sharp rise in sterol cholesterol CE(20:2) and ceramide dhCer(d18:0/22:0) within tumour-infiltrating CD4+ T cells, and in glycerolipid DG(16:0/16:0) within CD8+ T cells in blood and tumour. We further outlined a metabolic-checkpoint-based signature composed of six genes coding enzymes/transporters connected to the imbalanced metabolites found within tumour-infiltrating T cells (LIPA, DGKA, GLUL, SLC38A1, SLC7A7, GCH1) that shape patients' clinical outcome. These findings outline the skewed bioenergetic profiles of T cells and depict metabolic checkpoints associated with immune subversion. Harnessing metabolic pathways is promising for developing innovative therapies to restore optimal anti-tumour responses and improve clinical success.© 2026 The Author(s). Immunology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Intramuscular fat (IMF) in beef contains abundant sweet and umami compounds, which largely determine the flavor and commercial value of beef. Previous studies have demonstrated that lncBNIP3 regulates bovine IMF deposition; however, whether and how it affects the metabolism of flavor-related lipids remains poorly understood. In this study, we hypothesized that lncBNIP3 influences the lipid metabolic profile of intramuscular adipocytes. To test this, we performed an integrated metabolome-transcriptome analysis on bovine intramuscular adipocytes transfected with siRNA against lncBNIP3, aiming to characterize the metabolic shifts and identify candidate genes and pathways associated with lncBNIP3 function. Firstly, Quantitative Real-Time PCR (qRT-PCR) confirmed the efficient knockdown of lncBNIP3 using small interfering RNA (siRNA) in bovine intramuscular adipocytes. Subsequently, metabolomic sequencing was performed on lncBNIP3-knockdown intramuscular adipocytes on day 6 of differentiation. A total of 1433 metabolites were identified, including 101 differentially accumulated metabolites (DAMs). These DAMs encompassed various phospholipids (e.g., Glycophosphoinositol) and unsaturated fatty acids (UFAs) such as Docosapentaenoic acid (22n-6) and Docosahexaenoic acid. Functional enrichment analysis of DAMs highlighted key pathways: Glycerophospholipid metabolism, Phospholipase D signaling pathway, and Arachidonic acid metabolism. Integrated analysis of DAMs and previously identified differentially expressed genes (DEGs) further confirmed the most significant enrichment in Glycerophospholipid metabolism. LncBNIP3 knockdown significantly reduced the levels of multiple phospholipids and while upregulating the mRNA expression of three phospholipid hydrolysis-related genes (PLA2G16, PLA2R1, and DGKG). Concurrently, most UFAs showed increased abundance, whereas the fatty acid desaturase genes FADS1, FADS2, and FADS3 were significantly suppressed. In conclusion, our integrative analysis reveals that lncBNIP3 knockdown is associated with enhanced phospholipid hydrolysis and increased UFA content, potentially mediated by altered expression of phospholipid hydrolysis-related genes and the FADS gene family. These findings provide a metabolic and transcriptomic landscape for lncBNIP3 function in bovine intramuscular adipocytes and offer a foundation for future mechanistic studies.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Phospholipase D1 (PLD1) is a lipid metabolizing enzyme that produces phosphatidic acid (PA) and contributes to pathologies such as cancer, neurodegeneration, and cardiovascular diseases. PLD1 is known to be activated by Rho GTPases at a well defined site, and by ARF GTPases at a separate, poorly-defined site. Recently, the ARF-like GTPase 11 (ARL11) was identified as an activator of PLD1, but the mechanism by which ARL11 stimulates PLD1 activity remained unknown. Here, we use in vitro biochemical assays and structural predictions to provide insight into PLD1 activation by ARL11. We find that ARL11 must be loaded with GTP to stimulate PLD1, and corroborate that the loop within the catalytic domain of PLD1 is necessary for this stimulation. Leveraging AlphaFold 3, we predicted the structure of an ARL11-PLD1 complex. Point mutants of ARL11 at the predicted PLD1-ARL11 interface disrupted PLD1 stimulation, confirming the orientation of ARL11 in complex with PLD1. The N- and C-terminal ends of the PLD1-specific loop were predicted to be disordered in the absence of ARL11 but were predicted to adopt secondary structure elements that interact with ARL11 in the complex. Internal deletion mutants of PLD1 that retained these elements, but removed the remainder of the loop, were sufficient for ARL11 stimulation. Overall, these findings suggest that ARL11 interacts with PLD1 using three adjacent, biochemically distinct interfaces, and that the ends of PLD1's disordered loop form ordered structures to facilitate these interactions. Together this advances our structural understanding for the activation of PLD1 by the small GTPase ARL11.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The flagellar (ciliary) membrane of Chlamydomonas reinhardtii is continuous with the plasma membrane but maintains a distinct protein composition through the ciliary gate mechanism; however, a systematic comparison of the membrane proteomes of these two compartments has not been reported. Here, we performed comparative proteomics on highly enriched plasma and flagellar membrane fractions and identified 2779 proteins, with hundreds differentially abundant. Plasma membrane-enriched proteins were mainly involved in proton transport and ATP synthesis, whereas flagellar membrane-enriched proteins were specialized for cilium movement, axoneme assembly, and intraflagellar transport. Fluorescence localization validated the proteomic data and revealed previously uncharacterized subcellular patterns. Notably, PLD1 showed dual localization at the plasma membrane and punctate cytoplasmic structures, and FAP215 (validated by subflagellar fractionation) displayed a broader flagellar signal than the central microtubule protein FAP178, consistent with its localization in the flagellar matrix or membrane. This work provides the first systematic comparison of plasma and flagellar membrane proteomes in Chlamydomonas, offering a valuable resource for understanding flagellar membrane specialization.
The genetic architecture of idiopathic inflammatory myopathies (IIM) remains incompletely defined. When increasing sample size is not feasible, cross-trait analysis of genetically correlated diseases offer an effective strategy for discovering risk loci. Using summary statistics of IIM and B-cell lymphoma subtypes, we applied conditional false discovery rate (condFDR) and multi-trait analysis of GWAS (MTAG) to detect genetic associations with IIM risk. Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) outside the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) region meeting significance thresholds (condFDR < 0.01 or p-value < 5×10-8 for MTAG) were clumped and subjected to both functional annotation in FUMA and Gene Ontology (GO) biological process enrichment analysis using clusterProfiler. We identified six previously unreported loci, including three associated with dermatomyositis (12:58674304:T:C, 13:110799415:C:T, and 17:38103285:G:A) and three associated with polymyositis (PM) (4:971496:T:C, 6:396321:C:T, and 6:32650631:C:A). All non-HLA loci act as expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) or localize within enhancer regions. Notably, these include cis-eQTLs for known IIM risk-associated genes (GSDMB, DGKQ, SLC26A1, and IDUA), as well as genes implicated in synaptic vesicle cycle (SVC) pathways, immune regulation (IKZF3, ORMDL3, IRF4, DUSP22, and SPON2), protein homeostasis (ATP23 and PSMD3), lipid metabolism (PGAP3, ORMDL3, STARD3, and DGKQ), and myopathy (COL4A1). Gene Ontology analysis revealed significant for synaptic vesicle cycle pathways in PM (FDR <0.05). These findings advance our understanding of IIM pathogenesis from a genetic perspective and highlight candidate regulatory variants for further mechanistic investigation.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42484198 is a review article
Depressive disorders are a leading cause of global disability, yet gene expression studies in Middle Eastern populations remain scarce. This study investigated peripheral blood expression of seven candidate genes, previously identified in animal models and early-onset depression, in adults with and without depressive disorders in United Arab Emirates (UAE).In a case-control design, 49 adults with depressive disorders (ICD-10 major depressive disorder, dysthymia, or adjustment disorder with depressed features) and 49 non-depressed controls were assessed with the Beck Depression Inventory-II and Patient Health Questionnaire-9. Peripheral blood expression of ADCY3, DGKA, FAM46A, CADM1, KIAA1539, MARCKS, and RAPH1 was measured by quantitative real-time PCR, normalised to GAPDH. Analyses included Mann-Whitney U tests, principal component analysis, fold-change estimation, pre-specified receiver operating characteristic analysis, and severity-restricted, age-balanced, and RNA-quality sensitivity analyses.CADM1 showed modest upregulation in the depressive disorder group (1.30-fold; Mann-Whitney p = 0.049, uncorrected) that did not survive multiple testing correction (Benjamini-Hochberg p = 0.178). Principal component analysis revealed an unadjusted PC2 difference (p = 0.006), driven by CADM1 and RAPH1, that attenuated after age adjustment (MANCOVA p = 0.156). CADM1 correlated negatively with depression severity (BDI-II ρ = -0.280, p = 0.005), and the signal strengthened monotonically across severity strata (moderate-severe BDI-II ≥ 20, p = 0.029; severe BDI-II ≥ 29, p = 0.014), arguing against diagnostic heterogeneity as the primary driver. However, propensity score matching on age abolished the CADM1 effect (p = 0.965). Exploratory subgroup analyses suggested sex-specific patterns (CADM1 in males, p = 0.039; KIAA1539 in females, p = 0.010). The CADM1 area under the receiver operating characteristic curve was 0.616, indicating no diagnostic utility. Post-hoc power for individual genes was 5-19%.This pilot provides the first peripheral blood gene expression data for depression in a UAE population. Given the small sample, the 13-year mean age difference between groups, and unmeasured confounders, CADM1 is best framed as a hypothesis-generating candidate only; the signal was unstable after age balancing and the discrimination performance (AUC = 0.616) is below any clinically useful threshold. Validation in larger, strictly age-matched studies is required before any clinical interpretation.Copyright © 2026 Nawaz, Al Awadhi, Al Mughairbi, Bashir, Andrade, Bokhari, Javaid and Hamid.
EGFR is a key oncogenic driver of lung adenocarcinoma, and resistance to its tyrosine kinase inhibitors has become a major clinical challenge in the treatment of EGFR-mutated LUAD patients. Through preliminary experiments including Western blot and immunohistochemistry staining, RBM15 was identified as an oncogene promoting drug resistance in EGFR-mutant LUAD cell lines PC-9 and HCC827. Analysis of the TCGA-LUAD cohort revealed a positive correlation between RBM15 and EGFR expression, whereas RBM15 gain-of-function was negatively associated with LUAD patient survival. RBM15 expression was higher in EGFR-mutant LUAD cell lines PC-9 and HCC827 compared to non-EGFR-mutant cell line A549. Furthermore, RBM15 was downregulated in PC-9 and HCC827 cells following gefitinib treatment. Knockdown of RBM15 reduced proliferation and promoted apoptosis in PC-9 and HCC827 cells in vitro, while also inhibiting the growth of PC-9 xenograft tumors in mice. Notably, RBM15 overexpression rescued these effects and promoted gefitinib resistance in PC-9 and HCC827 cells. Transcriptomic and metabolomic sequencing analyses of RBM15-knockdown PC-9 cells revealed enrichment in multiple cancer signaling pathways, including mitochondrial fatty acid metabolism. Diacylglycerol kinase ε (DGKE) was identified as a novel interacting protein of RBM15, and RBM15 was found to influence fatty acid metabolism by modulating mitochondrial function. In summary, RBM15 promotes tumorigenic proliferation, suppresses apoptosis, and enhances gefitinib resistance in EGFR-mutant LUAD cells by regulating the EGFR signaling pathway and interacting with DGKE. Based on the interplay among RBM15, EGFR, and downstream DGKE, RBM15 may serve as a promising new therapeutic target for EGFR-mutant LUAD.© 2026. The Author(s).
Pseudobagrus ussuriensis is a widely cultured bagrid fish known for its delicious tastes and high nutrition values in China. As growth performances of this fish significantly declined in recent years, the breeding of new germplasm with excellent growth traits is urgently needed. In the present study, the genome-wide association study (GWAS) method was used to identify genetic sites significantly associated with five growth traits in a population with 183 individuals. A total of 2,408,557 high-quality SNPs were identified across the 26 chromosomes of the genome. Among these, 31 SNPs were found to be significantly associated with growth traits, including 12 SNPs on Chr08, Chr17 and Chr21 associated with body length, 9 SNPs from Chr07, Chr08, Chr16, Chr22 and Chr25 associated with head length, 8 SNPs on Chr03 and Chr08 associated with body weight, and 4 SNPs from Chr03, Chr04, Chr08 and Chr15 associated with condition factor. One SNP, Chr08:20667021, located at the upstream region of the pld1 gene, was significantly associated with body length, head length and body weight, and it was also validated using Sanger sequencing in 100 individuals. Within a 50 kb range upstream and downstream of the 31 significant SNPs, 71 candidate genes were identified, with 28 of them being considered as more probable growth-associated candidate genes. The results of this study showed that the majority of growth related SNPs and candidate genes clustered on Chr08, which may be dominant in the process of growth regulation. These findings provide valuable insights into the genetic mechanisms of growth and useful tools for marker-assisted selection breeding in P. ussuriensis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Acne vulgaris is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the pilosebaceous unit in which Cutibacterium acnes interacts dynamically with the sebum microenvironment. The bacterial factors that sense and remodel this environment remain poorly characterized. Here, we demonstrate that culturing C. acnes in an artificial sebum system enhances bacterial growth and augments inflammatory, lipogenic, and hyperkeratinization-related responses in keratinocytes, sebocytes, and a Syrian hamster flank organ model. Integrated transcriptomic and proteomic analyses identified the secreted lipase GehA as a lipid-responsive factor that was markedly upregulated under moderate AS conditions. Functional studies using recombinant GehA and antibody-mediated neutralization further demonstrated that GehA potentiates host inflammatory, lipogenic, and hyperkeratinization-related responses. Mechanistically, pharmacological inhibition of the TLR2-NLRP3 pathway or the PPARα-GPAT3 axis attenuated inflammatory and lipogenic responses, respectively, supporting a role for these pathways in mediating GehA-induced responses. Notably, recombinant GehA alone was insufficient to induce acne-like pathology in vivo, suggesting that GehA functions as a context-dependent amplifier rather than a primary disease initiator. Collectively, these findings uncover a lipid-induced positive-feedback mechanism through which GehA strengthens C. acnes-host interactions and highlight GehA and its downstream signaling pathways as potential therapeutic targets warranting further investigation in acne.Copyright © 2026 Society for Investigative Dermatology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
This study elucidates the biochemical mechanisms by which extreme high-altitude environments are associated with the remodeling of the skeletal muscle flavor profile in sheep. Using Bayinbuluke (high-altitude) and Turpan Black (low-altitude) sheep, we integrated volatilomics, metabolomics, transcriptomics, and proteomics to map flavor precursor networks. Odor activity value analysis revealed that high-altitude meat exhibited sub-threshold suppression of animal off-flavors, such as p-cresol, while significantly amplifying premium fruity esters. Targeted metabolomics attributed this sensory inversion to a structural shift in the precursor pool, specifically the enrichment of highly reactive polyunsaturated fatty acids, L-cysteine, and rhamnose. Multi-omics integration demonstrated that cold and hypoxic stresses are associated with metabolic reprogramming. The synergistic downregulation of the GPAT3 gene and APOC3 protein was associated with redirected lipid flux, suggesting a mechanism for functional fatty acid accumulation. Simultaneously, the pronounced upregulation of the CTH gene, potentially driven by antioxidant defense needs, coincided with substantial L-cysteine accumulation. Correlation networks suggested that this precursor shift is negatively correlated with off-flavor generation, possibly via competitive thermal degradation. In conclusion, extreme ecological stress is associated with convergent metabolic reprogramming, contributing to the reconstruction of the flavor precursor pool to alter the characteristic lipid aroma of plateau meat. While these findings provide a comprehensive structural blueprint of plateau meat characteristics, the proposed mechanisms remain hypothetical and warrant future functional and sensory validation.
Fat accumulation and tetrodotoxin (TTX) resistance are critical adaptive traits that enable pufferfish to cope with migratory behavior and environmental fluctuations. Here, we integrate whole-genome sequencing, transcriptomic, and electrophysiological analyses to investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying fatty acid metabolism and TTX tolerance in Takifugu fasciatus. A high-quality genome assembly (372.8 Mb, with 94.9% of sequences anchored to 22 chromosomes) suggests that the ancestral freshwater population of T. fasciatus adapted to marine environments approximately 130,000 years ago. DGAT2 and GPAT3 are identified as key regulators of lipid biosynthesis. RNA interference (RNAi)-mediated silencing of these genes significantly reduces hepatic triglyceride levels and lipid droplet accumulation. Four amino acid substitutions are found in NaV1.4 channels of T. fasciatus, with a D400E mutation in Domain I that significantly enhancing TTX resistance. These findings highlight conserved lipid metabolism pathways and NaV channel mutations as key evolutionary strategies for environmental adaptation in pufferfish.© 2026. The Author(s).
Metabolic syndrome (MetS) has been associated with increased acute pancreatitis (AP) severity. This study aimed to identify shared differentially expressed genes (CDEGs) between MetS and AP and to prioritize mechanistically relevant targets. The shared genetic basis and causal effect of MetS on AP were first assessed using linkage disequilibrium score regression (LDSC) and two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR). Public Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) datasets were analyzed to define shared CDEGs. A multi-step pipeline incorporating functional enrichment, protein-protein interaction (PPI) analysis, and transcription factor mapping was used to identify AP hub genes (AP-HGs). Functional relatedness and putative causal relationships were evaluated using GeneMANIA, MR, and single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq). Finally, computational drug prediction and molecular docking were performed to identify potential therapeutic agents. Key findings were further validated in a hyperlipidemia AP (HAP) model. A positive genetic correlation between MetS and AP was identified by LDSC, and MR supported a causal effect of MetS on increased AP risk. BCAT1, GPAT3, ANP32C, and ZNF683 were identified as CDEGs between MetS and AP. MAPK14 was identified as a central AP-HG. MAPK14, BCAT1, and GPAT3 were effective predictors for severe AP (SAP), with AUCs of 0.738, 0.722, and 0.744, respectively. GeneMANIA predicted a high degree of physical interaction (77.6%) among these genes. MR analysis provided supportive genetic evidence linking MAPK14 expression to inflammatory mediators including IL-1ra and TNFR-1. scRNA-seq analysis in an experimental AP model localized Mapk14 expression predominantly to macrophages, while Bcat1 marked a unique, proliferative fibroblast subpopulation that emerged transiently during inflammation and exhibited an anabolic metabolic signature. Ozagrel was prioritized as an exploratory candidate with favorable predicted binding affinities and requires further validation. In a HAP model, aggravated pancreatic injury and upregulation of BCAT1 and MAPK14 were confirmed under the high-fat background. A genetic and transcriptomic link between MetS and AP was identified. MAPK14-associated inflammation and Bcat1-positive fibroblast remodeling may contribute to AP aggravation under metabolic disturbance. These findings provide candidate biomarkers for SAP prediction and support BCAT1 and MAPK14 as potential mechanistic targets.© 2026 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
The improvement of meat quality by selenium (Se) supplementation has been well documented; however, the effects and underlying mechanisms by which Se-enriched yeast modulates meat quality remain unclear. This study aimed to investigate the effects of Se-enriched yeast on meat quality and its molecular characteristics in finishing pigs. All pigs were fed a Se-deficient diet (SeD) or the same diet supplemented with 0.3, 1, 3, or 5 mg Se/kg (CT, SY1, SY3, and SY5).Compared with SeD, Se-enriched yeast supplementation, especially SY3, improved marbling score, intramuscular fat content, antioxidant capacity, and fatty acid composition in the LD muscle (P < 0.05). Lipidomic analysis revealed that Se-enriched yeast supplementation altered the abundances of multiple lipid species, while transcriptomic analysis showed significant enrichment of pathways related to unsaturated fatty acid and glycerophospholipid metabolism (P < 0.05). Integrated analyses further identified glycerophospholipid metabolism as a key pathway associated with major lipids, including phosphatidylcholine (PC) and phosphatidylethanolamine (PE), along with regulatory genes glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase 3 (GPAT3) and phosphatidylserine decarboxylase (PISD). Correlation analysis indicated that stearoyl-CoA desaturase (SCD), elongation of very long chain fatty acids protein 4 (ELOVL4), and GPAT3 play crucial roles in lipid synthesis.Se-enriched yeast supplementation at 3 mg/kg improved meat quality, primarily through the regulation of glycerophospholipid metabolism, enhancement of membrane stability, and lipid homeostasis. These findings offer mechanistic insights into the role of Se-enriched yeast and highlight its potential as an effective feed additive for improving meat quality in finishing pigs.© 2026. The Author(s).
High-latitude populations represent valuable case studies to investigate the genetic bases of human biological adaptations to cold climates. Nevertheless, by relying on traditional natural selection models, a limited fraction of them was identified. To overcome this issue, we integrate diverse inferential methods in the attempt to pinpoint combinations of genes presenting both selection signatures and functional relationships supporting their synergic role in regulating a biological trait, as expected under polygenic adaptation. We analyze Yakut genomes from Northeastern Siberia and Russian ones, pointing to adaptive evolution at genes contributing to functions modulated during cold exposure, such as thyroid hormone/insulin signalling (THRB, RCAN2, INSR, NFKB1), brown adipose tissue differentiation (ERBB4) and glycerolipid metabolism (GPAT3). Concerted changes at these loci may support enhanced heat production and responsiveness to insulin, having been partly influenced also by Neanderthal introgression, and provide suggestive insights into the complex adaptations that enabled Eurasians' ancestors to colonize cold environments.© 2026. The Author(s).
As metabolic disorders associated with excessive lipid deposition in skeletal muscle rise, strategies to alleviate this accumulation have emerged as a major focus in metabolic research. Glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase 3 (GPAT3) is a key enzyme in triglyceride biosynthesis; however, its role in muscle lipid metabolism remains unclear. In this study, we overexpressed or knocked down GPAT3 in C2C12 myoblasts to evaluate its effects on muscle lipid metabolism and then validated the findings in GPAT3 knockout (KO) mice. GPAT3 deficiency significantly reduced lipid deposition in muscle cells. In C2C12 cells, changes in GPAT3 expression were accompanied by alterations in AMPK signaling activity. These results demonstrate that GPAT3 promotes lipid deposition in skeletal muscle. Our in vitro data reveal a correlation between GPAT3 and AMPK signaling; further in vivo validation and functional assays are required to clarify the role of AMPK in this process. This study highlights GPAT3 as a potential therapeutic target for metabolic diseases characterized by excessive intramuscular lipids.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Despite growing recognition of immune involvement in kidney stone disease (KSD), its immunogenetic basis remains unclear. We applied a cell type-stratified immunogenetic framework, integrating single-cell cis-expression quantitative trait loci (cis-eQTL) data from the OneK1K immune atlas, to identify gene-cell type associations across four anatomical KSD subtypes. This approach revealed 80 colocalized gene-cell type pairs with strong genetic support. Natural killer (NK) cells and CD4+ naive/central memory T cells emerged as major contributors to disease risk, with consistent associations observed for BCR-NK cells and RGS14-CD4+/CD8+ T cells across all KSD subtypes. Functional and network analyses highlighted roles for MHC class II antigen presentation and T cell activation, implicating adaptive immunity in pathogenesis. Prioritized genes showed pleiotropic links to renal function, inflammation, and mineral metabolism-for example, RGS14 was associated with improved eGFR and reduced urinary citrate; GPX1 with impaired renal function and elevated CRP; HCG25 and DGKD with higher calcium and uric acid. Clinical complication mapping further implicated these targets in osteoporosis, hypertension, and systemic inflammation. A multi-domain prioritization identified seven top targets-RGS14, BCR, PRR3, HIST1H2BG, SLC44A4, POU5F1, and CTSS-as clinically actionable. These insights may inform future strategies for risk stratification, early detection, and immune-targeted intervention in KSD.© 2026 The Author(s).
To investigate the role of S1PR3 in ectopic lipid deposition in diabetic nephropathy (DN) and its underlying mechanisms. The DN rat model was constructed and treated with adeno-associated virus (AAV9) cloned with S1PR3 overexpression or knockdown on the 7th and 49th day after STZ injection. Rat body weight, fasting plasma glucose (FPG), 24-hour urine output and urine protein, renal function, and blood lipids were all tested at different time points after AAV9 injection. 12 weeks post-AAV9 injection, pathological changes and ectopic lipid deposition in renal tissue were detected. In addition, to validate the role of AMPK/PPAR-γ/GPAT3 pathway, we applied AMPK activator MK-8722 and PPAR-γ inhibitor GW9662. S1PR3 was highly expressed in DN rats. Low S1PR3 reduced FPG and body weight, improved blood lipid profiles, and enhance renal function. Additionally, they promoted lipid hydrolysis and inhibited lipid synthesis, thereby reducing ectopic lipid deposition and protecting against diabetic nephropathy in DN rats. High S1PR3 expression had the opposite effect. Low S1PR3 activated AMPK, thereby downregulating PPARγ and GPAT3. The application of MK-8722 and GW9662 altered the beneficial effects produced by S1PR3 knockdown. These changes in lipid metabolism were attributed to low S1PR3 levels upregulating the AMPK/PPAR-γ/GPAT3 pathway. Collectively, low S1PR3 levels inhibited lipid synthesis and promote hydrolysis, reducing blood lipids and alleviating renal ectopic lipid deposition in DN rats. These changes caused by knocking down S1PR3 may be related to the AMPK/PPAR-γ/GPAT3 pathway.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Microplastics (MPs) derived from film mulching commonly exist in cadmium (Cd)-contaminated agricultural soil, but their impacts on Cd phytotoxicity are still controversial. Lipid remodeling is a key plant stress response, but whether conventional and biodegradable MPs differently regulate this process under Cd stress remain unclear. This study compared the effects of conventional polyethylene (PE) and biodegradable polylactic acid (PLA) MPs at two concentrations (0.1% and 1%) on Cd phytotoxicity in maize via a 35-day pot experiment, mainly focusing on the lipid homeostasis. Both individual and combined exposures to MPs and Cd inhibited maize growth and photosynthesis and induced oxidative stress. PE significantly reduced Cd concentration (20.06-38.71%) and uptake content (27.22-39.77%) in shoots and roots. PLA exhibited dose-dependent effects, where 0.1% addition increased Cd accumulation in roots, while 1% addition decreased it in shoots. These effects might be attributed to altered homeostasis of essential minerals (Ca, Fe, and Cu). Interaction analysis revealed that PE acted antagonistically with Cd at 0.1% and synergistically at 1%, while PLA showed antagonism at both concentrations. Integrated lipidomic and transcriptomic analyses identified five key regulatory genes (LACS4, GPAT6, LPP2, PLA2-III, and LPCAT4) significantly associated with 36 glycerophospholipids and glycerolipids, revealing that PE and PLA influenced maize molecular response via distinct lipid metabolism pathways under Cd stress. These findings demonstrate that conventional and biodegradable MPs differentially regulate Cd phytotoxicity in Cd‑contaminated soils through lipid remodeling, providing new insights for the safety assessment of agricultural film mulching.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Our previous work revealed that the anti-diarrhea effects of alkaline mineral complex (AMC) water improve metabolism and protect the gut during weaning stress. However, whether AMC water can inhibit viral replication and treat viral diarrhea is unknown. The aim of this study was to explore the ability of AMC water to improve nutrient metabolism and protect against infection. In this study, porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV) or porcine deltacoronavirus (PDCoV) were used as RNA model viruses, and pseudorabies virus (PRV) or porcine circovirus (PCV) were used as DNA model viruses. Compared with those in the infected group, the virus content in the piglets fed AMC water was reduced, and the intestinal mucosal barrier was repaired. Transcriptome and metabolome results revealed that AMC water regulated lipid metabolism through GPAT2, DGKA, OAT3, FXR, LIPC and SULT2A1. Further studies showed that glycerol, cholesterol, and bilirubin levels increased after viral infection, and that AMC water inhibited cholesterol content and promoted bile acid synthesis. In a cellular model, AMC water reduced lipid droplet density by activating the glycerolipid and bile secretion pathways of the GPAT2/SULT2A1 axis. In addition, knockdown of DGKA and overexpression of SULT2A1 significantly affected the expression of the GPAT2/SULT2A1 axis, and the expression of viral proteins colocalized with lipid droplets was significantly decreased. Our findings suggest that AMC water promotes cholesterol metabolism by activating the GPAT2/SULT2A1 axis, inhibiting viral infection in piglets. This study provides theoretical support for the use of nutritional regulation to inhibit viral infection and provides a new method for antiviral therapy.© 2026. Science China Press.
Atmospheric nanoplastics are emergingly found to deposit on leaves of terrestrial plants and adversely affect plant growth. Lipid remodeling has been verified as one of the important strategies for plants to respond to abiotic stress; however, its molecular response to atmospheric nanoplastics in crop leaves remains unclear. In this study, maize leaves were exposed to 50 nm polystyrene nanoplastics (PSNPs) with pristine (nPS), carboxy (nPS-COOH), and amino groups (nPS-NH2) at environmentally relevant doses (1 and 10 μg/d). Ten-day exposure of nPS-NH2 induced the strongest phenotypic and physiological inhibition regardless of the exposure dose. All PSNPs were internalized into maize leaves via the stomatal pathway, accumulating dose-dependently. Meanwhile, the highest PSNP absorption efficiency was found in nPS-NH2 treatment (0.208%), which was 3.92- and 2.37-fold of those in the treatments of nPS and nPS-COOH, respectively. The significant inhibitory effect of three PSNPs on the biosynthesis of 31 membrane "structural" and "signaling" lipids and their gene expression in maize leaves was found through lipidomics and transcriptomics analysis. Five key genes (LACS4, GPAT2, LPP2, DGK1, and PLD1) involved in membrane lipid metabolisms were identified by weighted gene coexpression network analysis. These findings provide valuable insights into the interactions between atmospheric NPs and crop growth from the molecular perspective of lipid remodeling.
During seedling establishment, a cuticle protects the root cap until the outer embryonic cell layer is shed. In Arabidopsis, the root cap cuticle of primary roots has a distinct composition that includes ester-bound unsubstituted very-long-chain fatty acids (VLCFAs) and ester-bound oxygenated C16/C18 fatty acids. We show that the incorporation of C26/C28 VLCFAs depends on the sn2-glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase GPAT2. Loss of GPAT2 increases cuticle permeability and enhances mucilage attachment while only moderately altering cuticle ultrastructure. In contrast, loss of the long-chain acyl-coenzyme A (CoA) synthetase LACS2-which functions with GPAT4 and GPAT8 to incorporate only oxygenated fatty acids into cutin-causes severe ultrastructural and barrier defects but has little effect on mucilage attachment. These findings reveal two largely independent pathways-GPAT2 dependent and LACS2/GPAT4/GPAT8 dependent-that differentially shape root cap cuticle structure and barrier function. Overall, this study provides new insights into organ-specific pathways of plant cuticle biosynthesis.Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Plant microbiota has received increasing attention in recent years. In particular, the microbiota associated with cereals is being extensively studied to identify bacterial strains that can promote plant health and growth. Barley is the fourth most important cereal worldwide in terms of agricultural production. Intensive barley agriculture requires the use of chemical fertilizers to compensate for nutrient deficiencies in soils and limit pathogen development. The isolation and use of bacteria that can enhance the bioavailability of soil nutrients and inhibit the development of plant pathogens could ultimately limit the use of these chemicals. In this study, we have isolated from a barley microbiota three bacterial strains belonging to the genus Streptomyces. These strains were characterized and named GPA1, GPAT2, and GPN2.These three closely related isolates were from the same bacterial genus Streptomyces. Based on a phylogenetic analysis, the strains GPAT2 and GPN2 were classified as Streptomyces murinus, while GPA1 was identified as a new species. All strains showed antagonistic activity against two microorganisms that inhibit barley germination: Pseudomonas sp. MRN1 and Fusarium sp. CK. In addition, these strains exhibited different effects on the growth of barley cultivated under hydroponic and axenic conditions. In fact, GPN2 appeared to have no effect whereas the inoculation of barley seedlings with GPAT2 and GPA1 resulted in a reduction and an increase in root length after two weeks of growth, respectively. GPA1 had various Plant Growth-Promoting (PGP) abilities, including phosphate and zinc solubilization and siderophore production. A metabolite profiling of the GPA1 bacterial culture also showed its production and excretion of indole-3-acetic acid (IAA).In this study, we have characterized three closely related bacteria, which display different effects on barley seedlings growth. These results revealed that the type of interactions of Streptomyces with barley is strain-dependent, suggesting that these interactions may arise from specific molecular mechanisms acquired through coevolutionary processes.© 2025. The Author(s).
The molecular mechanisms underlying gonadal differentiation in vertebrates have long intrigued researchers. However, studies in this field have predominantly focused on mammals, with limited attention given to non-mammalian vertebrates, particularly at the cellular level. To address this knowledge gap, we selected the Chinese tongue sole as our research model. We collected samples from six developmental stages of ovaries and testes and performed in-depth transcriptomic analyses of 123,344 single-cell nuclei. This study identified 34 major cell types, including five gonadal cell types, enabling us to outline the early sex differentiation roadmap in a non-model teleost species. Both somatic and germ cells in the gonads were systematically studied using bioinformatics methods. Numerous sex-biased genes and markers were identified and experimentally validated, contributing to our understanding of the dynamic development and differentiation processes of gonadal supporting cells and germ cells in teleosts. Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis (WGCNA) networks emphasized the critical roles of foxl2a and dmrt1 in sex differentiation. Pseudotime analysis revealed the early differentiation processes between male and female germ cells. We discovered a new germ cell marker gene, gpat2, and elucidated the differentiation pathway of gonadal stem cells in teleost fish. Our results highlight the significance of pathways such as oocyte meiosis, Target of Rapamycin (TOR) complex, oxytocin signaling, cGMP-PKG signaling, and arginine signaling in the differentiation of oocytes and spermatogonial stem cells. Cell-cell communication analyses further revealed interactions among different gonadal cell types, identifying the WNT and Notch pathways as crucial for the development of female and male gonads. Furthermore, we verified a feedback loop between dmrt1 and zfpm2 for the first time in teleosts, suggesting potential roles for zfpm2 in the formation and development of the teleost testis. Our findings provide a comprehensive transcriptomic resource for investigating the early sex differentiation processes of teleosts at the single-cell level and bridge the knowledge gap in research on non-mammalian vertebrates.© 2025. Science China Press.
This study employed a multi-omics approach to investigate the molecular and functional underpinnings of schizophrenia by integrating blood transcriptomic profiles, neuroimaging-derived brain phenotypes, and clinical symptomatology. RNA sequencing of blood samples from 43 patients with schizophrenia and 60 healthy controls identified 994 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), the vast majority of which were downregulated (n = 921, |FC| > 1.5, P < 0.05), with enrichment in pathways related to neuronal development and inflammation. Concurrent neuroimaging analyses revealed altered functional activation in key brain regions, including the prefrontal and anterior cingulate cortices. A Partial Least Squares correlation analysis demonstrated significant cross-modal relationships among gene expression, neuroimaging patterns, and clinical presentation. Furthermore, we identified six genes-GRK2, KLF3, TAOK2, ARFGAP45, AP1M1, and GPAT2-that were shared across gene sets associated with both brain function and clinical symptoms, suggesting a common transcriptional basis for these features of schizophrenia. Collectively, these findings provide novel insights into the integrated molecular and functional changes in schizophrenia, highlighting the value of a comprehensive multi-omics strategy to decipher its pathophysiology and potentially inform improved diagnostic and therapeutic strategies.© 2025. The Author(s).
Colorectal carcinogenesis and progression are closely associated with metabolic dysregulation. The role of MOGAT2 in colorectal cancer (CRC) advancement and its underlying metabolic mechanisms remain unclear. This study aimed to explore how MOGAT2 influences tumorigenesis by modulating lipid metabolism.MOGAT2 expression was assessed in four CRC cell lines using qRT-PCR and Western blot. Functional consequences of MOGAT2 modulation were examined following siRNA-mediated knockdown or lentivirus-mediated overexpression in HCT116/SW620 cells. Assays measured cell proliferation, colony formation, apoptosis, invasion, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Key lipid metabolites and metabolic enzymes were analyzed. A CRC xenograft mouse model was used for in vivo validation. RNA sequencing and rescue experiments identified ACSM1 as a key downstream mediator.MOGAT2 knockdown enhanced cell proliferation, colony formation, and invasion, as well as inhibited apoptosis. While its overexpression significantly suppressed malignant phenotypes, induced apoptosis, and inhibited EMT. Mechanistically, MOGAT2 modulated lipid metabolism by reducing FFA accumulation and regulating cholesterol transport, accompanied by downregulation of lipid synthesis enzymes (GPAT2, GPAT3, and GAAT). In vivo, MOGAT2 overexpression inhibited tumor growth, improved histopathology, and restored lipid balance. Crucially, ACSM1 was identified as a critical downstream effector. Silencing ACSM1 abolished the tumor-suppressive effects of MOGAT2 overexpression, reinstating aggressive growth, suppression of apoptosis, EMT, and metabolic dysregulation.MOGAT2 functions as a tumor suppressor in CRC by inhibiting proliferation, promoting apoptosis, and suppressing invasion/EMT via ACSM1-mediated metabolic reprogramming, highlighting its potential as a therapeutic target.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Mt-GPAT1/2 are involved in cutin biosynthesis and negatively regulate SCW formation by modulating the lignin and cellulose synthesis genes. Alterations in cuticle and SCW lead to plant water imbalance. Trichomes and cuticles are critical epidermal adaptations that serve protective roles in plants. The cuticle functions as a barrier, allowing for controlled interactions between the plant and its environment. Cutin synthesis is crucial for plants to withstand various external stresses. In this study, we report on the Arabidopsis mutant gpat1 gpat2, which exhibits a highly permeable cuticle and defects in trichome development. Mutation of GPAT1 and GPAT2 resulted in a reduction of cutin monomer. In gpat1 gpat2, the structure of the cuticular layer of the cell wall is notably altered. Additionally, GPAT1 and GPAT2 are found to downregulate the expression of genes involved in lignin and cellulose biosynthesis, which are related to secondary cell wall (SCW) formation. The dysfunction of GPAT1 and GPAT2 disrupted the water balance of the plant. Our findings reveal a network where mitochondrial GPAT1 and GPAT2 play roles in maintaining water balance by participating in both Arabidopsis cutin synthesis and SCW formation.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Microalgae are a rich source of high-value natural products. The green microalga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii has long been used as a model organism for studying lipid metabolism in photosynthetic organisms. Here, we comprehensively characterized the enzymatic activity and substrate preferences of the plastidial glycerol-3-phosphate:acyl-CoA acyltransferase (GPAT1) from C. reinhardtii. Our results revealed that, in addition to GPAT activity, recombinant GPAT1 is associated with lysophosphatidic acid: acyl-CoA acyltransferase (LPAAT) activity. Notably, the membrane-bound form of GPAT1 displayed distinct acyl-donor preferences, favoring both C18:1 and C16:0 substrates in its LPAAT function. Knockdown of GPAT1 resulted in a reduced triacylglycerol content, particularly C16 species, under mixotrophic growth and nitrogen deprivation. Interestingly, GPAT1 knockdown triggered a compensatory upregulation of the endoplasmic reticulum-localized GPAT2, resulting in a significant increase in the content and yield of 1,3-olein-2-palmitin (OPO), an essential functional lipid used in infant formula. These findings provide insights into the function and physiological role of microalgal plastidial GPAT1 and highlight its potential as a biotechnological target for enhancing OPO production in microalgae.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American Society of Plant Biologists. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Cervical cancer is the second leading cause of cancer-related death in Mexico, primarily due to persistent infection with high-risk Alpha-papillomavirus genotypes, such as HPV16 and 18. Next-generation sequencing (NGS) has revealed a high prevalence of Beta- and Gamma-HPVs, mainly Beta-2 types 38b, 80, 107, and 122, in cervical cancer samples from Mexico. Our group previously reported that HPVs 38b, 107, and 122 possess transforming properties in primary fibroblasts; however, the oncogenic potential of E6/E7-HPV80 has not yet been elucidated. For this purpose, primary human fibroblasts were transduced with E6/E7-HPV80 (FB-E6/E7-HPV80), and functional assays were conducted to evaluate changes in proliferation, metabolic activity, and cell migration. RNA-seq analysis identified differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and enriched pathways. Fibroblasts transduced with E6/E7-HPV16 (FB-E6/E7-HPV16) or empty vector (FB-pLVX) served as controls. FB-E6/E7-HPV80 extended their lifespan and exhibited increased proliferation, metabolic activity, and migration capacity. RNA-seq analysis identified 196 upregulated DEGs (such as GPAT2, MST1R, ACAN, SLCO4A1, and CHRNA3) and 887 downregulated DEGs (such as KLHDC7B, TRIM58, CST1, FBLL1, INHBE, and TMEM132D) shared between FB-E6/E7-HPV80 and FB-E6/E7-HPV16. Enriched pathways included p53, TNF, IL-17, apoptosis, cell cycle, etc. These findings suggest that E6/E7-HPV80 exhibits transforming capabilities that could play an important role in cervical carcinogenesis.
To preliminarily elucidates the role of EBNA1 in epigenetically regulating miR-127-5p and influencing the proliferation, apoptosis, and metabolism of Burkitt's lymphoma (BL) cells.The expression of EBNA1 was knocked down in EBV-positive Raji BL cells through lentiviral shRNA transduction. Gene expression, promoter methylation, and apoptosis were evaluated by quantitative real-time PCR, pyrosequencing, and flow cytometry, respectively. Cell proliferation was assessed by the CCK-8 assay, while cellular glycolytic activity was analyzed using the Seahorse XF Glycolysis Rate Assay. A comparative metabolomic study between EBV-positive Raji cells and EBV-negative CA46 BL cells was conducted using UHPLC-QE-MS.Compared with CA46 cells, the transcriptional level of miR-127-5p was significantly increased in Raji cells (P<0.05). Silencing EBNA1 significantly inhibited Raji cell proliferation, glycolysis level, and miR-127-5p transcriptional level, while promoting Raji cell apoptosis, and increasing Caspase-3 and LCLAT1 protein expression (all P <0.05). Pyrosequencing confirmed that the downregulation of miR-127-5p transcriptional level was associated with increased promoter methylation in EBNA1-shRNAi-Raji cells. Metabolomic analysis revealed that Raji cells produced more tumor metabolism-related metabolites compared to CA46 cells.EBNA1 upregulates the expression of miR-127-5p through demethylation, promoting the proliferation and glycolytic metabolism of EBV+ BL cells, and inhibiting cells apoptosis.
BackgroundEmbryonal tumor with multilayered rosettes (ETMR) is an aggressive pediatric brain tumor that carries a poor prognosis, and there is currently no standard of care. Dysregulated mitochondrial bioenergetics and dynamics have been associated with the progression of diverse cancers. Cardiolipins are mitochondrial-specific lipids, and their fatty acid composition has been shown to regulate mitochondrial structure and function. Despite the known functional significance of cardiolipins, their structure-specific accumulation in relation to mitochondrial phenotypes in ETMR remains ill-defined.Spatial lipidomic profiles in patient samples and 3D models were determined using mass spectrometry imaging. Cell proliferation and mitochondrial bioenergetics and dynamics were characterized using immunohistochemistry, transmission electron microscopy, Western blotting, and metabolic assays. LCLAT1 KD was carried out using siRNA.We detected a structure-specific accumulation of cardiolipins and increased expression of the cardiolipin acyl chain remodeling enzyme, lysocardiolipin acyltransferase 1 (LCLAT1), within proliferating tumor cells in patient samples and the 3D tumorspheres. Orthogonal imaging techniques correlated the structure-specific accumulation of cardiolipin with fragmented mitochondria displaying aberrant cristae structure, altered mitochondrial dynamics, decreased expression of respiratory chain enzymes, and a more glycolytic phenotype. LCLAT1 KD altered cardiolipin profiles, reduced growth and proliferation, decreased Sox2 and N-Myc expression, increased p53 and p21 expression, and increased LIN28A and Dcx expression. Additional therapeutic targeting of the fragmented mitochondrial phenotype identified also resulted in selective inhibition of ETMR growth and viability.Our findings provide novel insight into ETMR biology based on mitochondrial phenotypes and the fatty acid composition of the multifunctional mitochondrial-specific lipid, cardiolipin.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press, the Society for Neuro-Oncology and the European Association of Neuro-Oncology.
Cardiometabolic phenotypes such as obesity and impaired insulin action are key determinants of type 2 diabetes (T2D). Growing evidence highlights the postprandial state as a critical window in metabolic regulation, where epigenetic mechanisms, particularly DNA methylation in insulin-sensitive tissues, may play pivotal roles. However, their dynamics across prandial states in subcutaneous adipose tissue (SAT) remain unclear. We analyzed genome-wide DNA methylation in paired fasting and postprandial SAT biopsies from 29 asymptomatic, drug-naïve individuals classified as controls (n = 8), prediabetes n = 9), or T2D (n = 12). Postprandial samples followed a standardized mixed-meal test. DNA methylation was quantified using the Illumina MethylationEPIC array and analyzed through the Chip Analysis Methylation Pipeline (ChAMP) pipeline. Differential methylation was more pronounced postprandially, especially in the T2D group. After adjusting for age and sex, 4599 differentially methylated CpG sites (DMCs) were identified, with increased hypermethylation in T2D. A total of 130 DMCs across 99 genes, including LCLAT1, HLA-C, ZNF714, and HOOK2, were shared by prediabetes and T2D groups. Over-representation analysis revealed 202 enriched pathways related to insulin resistance, AMPK signaling, and immune responses. Additionally, 110 Differentially Methylated Regions (DMRs), including ZNF577 and AGPAT1, were detected. These findings reveal early, prandial-dependent epigenetic alterations in SAT that precede overt dysglycemia, offering insights into personalized prevention in T2D.
Congenital heart defects (CHDs) occur in 50-75% of patients with 22q11.2 deletion syndrome (22q11.2DS), ranging from mild to severe manifestations. The genetic and environmental factors contributing to variable CHD phenotypes in 22q11.2DS are largely unknown. In this study, we used a mouse model of 22q11.2DS, termed Df1/+, to evaluate the effect of maternal vitamin A (VitA) dietary imbalance (supplementation or deficiency) on the incidence of aortic arch defects (AADs), which is a common type of CHD observed in both 22q11.2DS patients and Df1/+ mouse embryos. While most groups showed a previously observed 30% AAD incidence, two groups exhibited significantly higher rates: (1) Df1/+ embryos from WT mothers on a VitA-Supl diet (51% AADs) and (2) Df1/+ embryos from Df1/+ mothers on a VitA-Def diet (45% AADs). Thus, a low or high maternal VitA diet can increase the frequency of AADs in embryos depending on the maternal genotype. Transcriptomic analysis of the hearts of these high-risk embryos at embryonic day (E)18.5 revealed downregulation of key genes (Hdac3, Ptgds, Sirt5, Pfkm, and Lclat1) associated with energy metabolism pathways, such as oxidative phosphorylation and glycolysis, suggesting impaired cardiac recovery mechanisms. In conclusion, our findings demonstrate that altered VitA exposure can exacerbate AAD incidence in a maternal-genotype-dependent manner, highlighting the complex interplay between embryonic and maternal genetic background and environmental factors in CHDs associated with 22q11.2DS.
Myocardial infarction(MI), a severe and often fatal cardiovascular condition, strongly contributes to global mortality and morbidity. Lipids are critical underlying factors in cardiovascular disease. They influence inflammatory responses and modulate leukocyte, vascular cell and cardiac cell functions, affecting the vasculature and heart. We aimed to identify novel biomarkers and therapeutic targets for MI that are linked to lipid metabolism.Endothelial cell transcriptomes from MI patients and controls were downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. Lipid metabolism genes were obtained from the Molecular Signatures Database (MSigDB). First, we employed the "limma" package to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Moreover, we utilized weighted gene coexpression network analysis (WGCNA) to explore the module genes involved in MI. By intersecting the DEGs, module genes, and lipid metabolism genes, we pinpointed the differentially expressed lipid metabolism genes. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment and protein‒protein interaction (PPI) analyses were subsequently conducted. Cytoscape with MCODE was adopted to identify biomarkers, and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis was applied to gauge the discriminatory power of these genes in distinguishing MI patients from controls. Regulatory network analysis involving microRNAs and transcription factors was performed for biomarkers.Overall, 1760 DEGs, comprising 862 upregulated and 898 downregulated DEGs, were identified. By overlapping the module genes and lipid metabolism-related genes, 73 lipid metabolism-related genes were identified. GO analysis highlighted the most significantly enriched terms, including fatty acid metabolic process, regulation of lipid metabolism, and glycerolipid metabolic process. KEGG analysis revealed that these genes were enriched in pathways such as adipocytokine signalling, arachidonic acid metabolism, and cholesterol metabolism. We constructed a PPI network from the 73 identified lipid metabolism-related genes, highlighting 5 biomarkers (MBOAT2, ABHD5, DGAT2, LCLAT1 and PLPPR2). The expression of the 5 biomarkers significantly differed between the MI patients and the controls (P < 0.05). The area under the ROC curve (AUC) of all the biomarkers was greater than 0.7.MBOAT2, ABHD5, DGAT2, LCLAT1 and PLPPR2 were identified as biomarkers of MI, providing new ideas for diagnostic and therapeutic approaches.© 2025. The Author(s).
Lysocardiolipin acyltransferase 1 (LCLAT1) is a lipid acyltransferase that plays an important role in mitochondrial function maintenance and lipid metabolism. Nevertheless, there is scarce research regarding its involvement in tumors. This study sought to investigate the potential role of LCLAT1 in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). We obtained HCC expression profile data from The Cancer Genome Atlas and Gene Expression Omnibus databases; verified LCLAT1 expression in HCC by qRT-PCR, Western blotting, and immunohistochemical (IHC) staining; and analyzed the potential pathogenic mechanisms of LCLAT1 in HCC bioinformatically. The associations of the LCLAT1 expression level with HCC patient prognosis, immune escape, and treatment response were also explored using bioinformatics tools and IHC staining. LCLAT1 was significantly overexpressed in HCC cell lines and tissues, and its expression level was positively correlated with histologic grade, tumor status, fibrotic Ishak score, and poor patient prognosis in HCC patients. Gene set enrichment analysis suggested that patients with high LCLAT1 had significant enrichment for methylation-, immune-, and cell proliferation-related pathways. The prognosis of HCC was found to be linked to the DNA methylation status of the five CpG islands within the LCLAT1 gene. Immune infiltration and single-cell level analyses showed that LCLAT1 was closely associated with the tumor microenvironment. Moreover, high LCLAT1 expression may promote immune evasion in HCC, and the abundance of several immune cells correlated with HCC prognosis. Finally, HCC patients with low LCLAT1 responded better to treatment with transarterial chemoembolization, sorafenib, and immune checkpoint inhibitors. LCLAT1 might serve as a potential prognostic biomarker and as a multipathway target involved in the malignant progression of HCC. Importantly, LCLAT1 was related to immune infiltration and could aid in predicting treatment response in HCC.© 2025 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Lipid metabolic reprogramming plays a pivotal role in cancer cell evolution and causing subsequent cancer growth, metastasis and therapy resistance. Cancer associated adipocyte and/or cancer derived adipocyte-like cells often supply fuels and various factors to fulfill the cells bioenergetics to enhance oncogenic potential. This study intends to find out a set of dysregulated genes involved in lipid metabolism in breast cancer studies and uncovers the role of unexplored dysregulated gene in cancer potential. Cancer database analysis determines seven seed signature genes (PLPP2, PLPP4, CDS1, ASAH2, LCLAT1, LPCAT1 and LASS6/CERS6) concluded from relative expression and survival analysis. Furthermore, experimental analysis unveils the gene PLPP4 (Phospholipid Phosphatase 4) as oncogene confirmed by knockdown and overexpression studies in MDA-MB 231 and MCF-7 breast cancer cells. PLPP4 enzyme is involved in regulation of triacyl glycerol metabolism. Lipid accumulation along with other studies documented enhanced lipid droplets, TAG formation and glycerol release with concomitant increased expressions of various adipogenic markers (e.g., PPARγ, perilipin 1 and leptin) in breast cancer cells transfected with PLPP4 gene expressing plasmid whereas downregulation of PLPP4 gene diminished lipid accumulation and adipocyte marker gene expressions. Our findings also revealed that BMP2 induced adipogenic potential in breast cancer cells was mitigated in response to downregulation of PLPP4 gene expression. All these findings together, for first time, demonstrated that BMP2 drives PLPP4 to enhance both oncogenic and adipogenic potential in breast cancer cells. This article uncovers the perturbed lipid metabolism associated PLPP4 acts as oncogene presumably by modulating adipogenic activity in cancer cells.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Erectile dysfunction (ED) is a common condition affecting millions of men worldwide. While genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified genetic loci associated with ED risk, the potential causative genes and their biological mechanisms leading to ED remain largely unexplored.This study aimed to conduct a comprehensive cross-tissue transcriptome-wide association study (TWAS) to identify susceptibility genes associated with ED risk.We conducted a cross-tissue TWAS analysis integrating GWAS data for ED with eQTL files from Genotype-Tissue Expression Project (GTEx) V8. We used the unified test for molecular signatures (UTMOST) for cross-tissue analysis and functional summary-based imputation (FUSION) for single-tissue validation. Candidate genes were further validated through multi-marker analysis of genomic annotation (MAGMA), conditional and joint (COJO) analysis, and colocalization analysis.The cross-tissue TWAS analysis identified 118 significant genes associated with ED, while the single-tissue TWAS validation revealed 3804 significant genes. Nine candidate genes (CPT1B, CSF2RB, DNAH7, EHD3, L3MBTL2, LCLAT1, MDH1B, REEP1, and SLC30A6) were consistently identified across the TWAS and MAGMA analyses. COJO analysis revealed that LCLAT1 accounted for most of the signals at their respective loci. Colocalization analysis confirmed LCLAT1 as the primary candidate gene, showing strong colocalization with ED in testis, brain cortex, and heart left ventricle.This comprehensive cross-tissue TWAS analysis identified LCLAT1 as a primary susceptibility gene for ED, highlighting its potential role in the mitochondrial function and lipid metabolism. The study also revealed several secondary candidate genes that may contribute to ED through pathways related to mitochondrial dynamics, neurotransmission, and cardiovascular function. These findings provide new perspectives on the genetic architecture of ED and suggest potential targets for future research and treatment.© 2025 American Society of Andrology and European Academy of Andrology.
Tinnitus, the perception of sound without any external sound source, is a prevalent hearing health concern. Mounting evidence suggests that a confluence of genetic, environmental, and lifestyle factors can influence the pathogenesis of tinnitus. We hypothesized that alteration in DNA methylation, an epigenetic modification that occurs at cytosines of cytosine-phosphate-guanine (CpG) dinucleotide sites, where a methyl group from S-adenyl methionine gets transferred to the fifth carbon of the cytosine, could contribute to tinnitus. DNA methylation patterns are tissue-specific, but the tissues involved in tinnitus are not easily accessible in humans. This pilot study used saliva as a surrogate tissue to identify differentially methylated CpG regions (DMRs) associated with tinnitus. The study was conducted on healthy young adults reporting bilateral continuous chronic tinnitus to limit the influence of age-related confounding factors and health-related comorbidities.The present study evaluated the genome-wide methylation levels from saliva-derived DNA samples from 24 healthy young adults with bilateral continuous chronic tinnitus (> 1 year) and 24 age, sex, and ethnicity-matched controls with no tinnitus. Genome-wide DNA methylation was evaluated for > 850,000 CpG sites using the Infinium Human Methylation EPIC BeadChip. The association analysis used the Bumphunter algorithm on 23 cases and 20 controls meeting the quality control standards. The methylation level was expressed as the area under the curve of CpG sites within DMRs.The FDR-adjusted p-value threshold of 0.05 was used to identify statistically significant DMRs associated with tinnitus.We obtained 25 differentially methylated regions (DMRs) associated with tinnitus. Genes within or in the proximity of the hypermethylated DMRs related to tinnitus included LCLAT1, RUNX1, RUFY1, NUDT12, TTC23, SLC43A2, C4orf27 (STPG2), and EFCAB4B. Genes within or in the proximity of hypomethylated DMRs associated with tinnitus included HLA-DPB2, PM20D1, TMEM18, SNTG2, MUC4, MIR886, MIR596, TXNRD1, EID3, SDHAP3, HLA-DPB2, LASS3 (CERS3), C10orf11 (LRMDA), HLA-DQB1, NADK, SZRD1, MFAP2, NUP210L, TPM3, INTS9, and SLC2A14. The burden of genetic variation could explain the differences in the methylation levels for DMRs involving HLA-DPB2, HLA-DQB1, and MUC4, indicating the need for replication in large independent cohorts.Consistent with the literature on comorbidities associated with tinnitus, we identified genes within or close to DMRs involved in auditory functions, chemical dependency, cardiovascular diseases, psychiatric conditions, immune disorders, and metabolic syndromes. These results indicate that epigenetic mechanisms could influence tinnitus, and saliva can be a good surrogate for identifying the epigenetic underpinnings of tinnitus in humans. Further research with a larger sample size is needed to identify epigenetic biomarkers and investigate their influence on the phenotypic expression of tinnitus.© 2024. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Association for Research in Otolaryngology.
Receptor tyrosine kinases such as EGF receptor (EGFR) stimulate phosphoinositide 3 kinases to convert phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosophate [PtdIns(4,5)P2] into phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-trisphosphate [PtdIns(3,4,5)P3]. PtdIns(3,4,5)P3 then remodels actin and gene expression, and boosts cell survival and proliferation. PtdIns(3,4,5)P3 partly achieves these functions by triggering activation of the kinase Akt, which phosphorylates targets like Tsc2 and GSK3β. Consequently, unchecked upregulation of PtdIns(3,4,5)P3-Akt signaling promotes tumor progression. Interestingly, 50-70% of PtdIns and PtdInsPs have stearate and arachidonate at sn-1 and sn-2 positions of glycerol, respectively, forming a species known as 38:4-PtdIns/PtdInsPs. LCLAT1 and MBOAT7 acyltransferases partly enrich PtdIns in this acyl format. We previously showed that disruption of LCLAT1 lowered PtdIns(4,5)P2 levels and perturbed endocytosis and endocytic trafficking. However, the role of LCLAT1 in receptor tyrosine kinase and PtdIns(3,4,5)P3 signaling was not explored. Here, we show that LCLAT1 silencing in MDA-MB-231 and ARPE-19 cells abated the levels of PtdIns(3,4,5)P3 in response to EGF signaling. Importantly, LCLAT1-silenced cells were also impaired for EGF-driven and insulin-driven Akt activation and downstream signaling. Thus, our work provides first evidence that the LCLAT1 acyltransferase is required for receptor tyrosine kinase signaling.
Listeria monocytogenes (L. monocytogenes) is a facultative intracellular bacterium and the etiological agent of listeriosis, an invasive infection that disproportionately affects neonates, older adults, pregnant women, and immunocompromised individuals. Among the major virulence determinants of L. monocytogenes, listeriolysin O (LLO) and the pathogenicity island LIPI-4 have been implicated in intracellular survival and tissue tropism. Here, we examined whether LLO contributes to LIPI-4-associated pathogenicity. While both LIPI-4 and LLO are known to be important for L. monocytogenes virulence, it remains to be determined whether LIPI-4 promotes infection by modulating LLO expression and secretion.Using the frozen raw chicken isolate LM928 as the parental strain, we constructed an hly deletion mutant (LM928Δhly), an hly/LIPI-4 double-deletion mutant (LM928ΔLIPI-4/hly), and the corresponding complemented strains via homologous recombination. Genetic stability was evaluated by serial passaging followed by PCR confirmation. LLO expression was assessed by Western blotting, and bacterial growth kinetics and hemolytic activity were examined in vitro. Adhesion, invasion, and intracellular replication were assessed in human cerebral microvascular endothelial cells (HCMEC/D3) and placental trophoblast cells (HTR-8). In vivo virulence was determined by quantifying bacterial burdens in the brain and spleen of infected mice.All mutant and complemented strains remained genetically stable, and deletion of hly or LIPI-4 had no measurable effect on bacterial growth in vitro. LLO was not detected in the hly deletion mutant or in the hly/LIPI-4 double-deletion mutant. In contrast, the LIPI-4 deletion mutant retained hemolytic activity, although at a reduced level compared with the wild-type strain. In cell infection assays, deletion of LIPI-4 resulted in reduced adhesion, invasion, and intracellular replication in both HCMEC/D3 and HTR-8 cells, and these impairments were greater than those observed for the hly mutant. Among all strains tested, the double-deletion mutant showed the most pronounced defects across the in vitro assays. In a mouse infection model, deletion of either hly or LIPI-4 reduced bacterial burdens in the brain and spleen, and the lowest burdens were observed in animals infected with the double-deletion strain.Our results indicate that hly and LIPI-4 act together to promote L. monocytogenes virulence, with LIPI-4 having a stronger impact on host cell interaction and intracellular persistence. These data support a coordinated role for LLO and LIPI-4 during systemic infection and provide insight into mechanisms that may contribute to tissue tropism and barrier crossing by L. monocytogenes.Copyright © 2026 Yin, Luo, Ma, Liu, Qi, Liu, Qian, Wang and Hu.
The Lung Immune Prognostic Index (LIPI) is an inflammation-based biomarker associated with outcomes to immunotherapy across several tumor types. Its prognostic value in extensive-stage small-cell lung cancer (ES-SCLC), however, remains insufficiently validated. We aimed to validate the prognostic impact of LIPI in ES-SCLC using data from two phase III trials.Patients enrolled in the CASPIAN (NCT03043872) and IMpower133 (NCT02763579) trials were included. LIPI groups were defined as good (dNLR<3 and LDH<ULN), intermediate (dNLR≥3 or LDH≥ULN) and poor (dNLR≥3 and LDH≥ULN). Overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS) were assessed across LIPI categories and treatment arms.LIPI was available for 1140 patients (Good: 34%, Intermediate: 49%, Poor: 17%), including 708 treated with chemotherapy-immunotherapy and 432 with chemotherapy alone. Poor LIPI was associated with unfavorable characteristics, including lower albumin levels and higher rate of liver metastases. Median OS was 14.6 months (95%CI: 12.4-15.9) for LIPI Good, 10.9 (10.1-11.5) for Intermediate, and 8.4 (7.1-9.3) for Poor (p < 0.0001). In multivariate models adjusted on gender, age, ECOG, treatment arm and metastatic sites, LIPI remained an independent prognostic factor for OS (HR Poor vs. Good: 1.76, 95%CI: 1.45-2.15, p < 0.001) and PFS (HR: 1.59, 95%CI: 1.33-1.90, p < 0.001). Although patients with poor LIPI derived limited benefit from immunotherapy, no significant treatment-LIPI interaction was observed.This large post hoc analysis confirms LIPI as a robust and clinically applicable prognostic biomarker in ES-SCLC. Patients with poor LIPI have substantially worse outcomes and limited benefit from immunotherapy, highlighting the need for novel therapeutic strategies in this subgroup.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) has transformed cancer treatment, yet many patients experience poor outcomes. Identifying patients at high risk of poor outcomes under ICB-containing therapies remains a major clinical challenge.To identify baseline factors associated with poor outcomes under ICB-containing therapies and develop a prognostic score for early-phase clinical trials.We analyzed a discovery cohort of patients with advanced solid tumors receiving ICB-containing therapies in early-phase clinical trials at Gustave Roussy Cancer Center (DITEP), derived from the prospective PREMIS study (NCT03984318). Baseline clinical and biological variables were evaluated in relation to survival outcomes, and a multivariable Cox model was used to identify independent prognostic factors. A simple five-factor prognostic score was subsequently developed using biologically relevant baseline variables and externally validated in an independent cohort from Institut Curie.Among 227 patients, a prognostic score incorporating liver metastases, elevated neutrophil count, elevated CRP, elevated LDH, and low lymphocyte count was developed (one point per factor, range 0-5). ECOG performance status, absolute neutrophil count, and absolute lymphocyte count remained independently associated with overall survival after adjustment. Patients with a score ≥ 3 had significantly shorter overall survival than those with a score of 0 (HR 4.10, 95% CI 1.71-10.00; p = 0.002), confirmed in external validation (HR 2.22, 95% CI 1.21-4.08; p = 0.006). The score discriminated overall survival better than RMH and LIPI, with similar performance to GRIm-Score and MDA-ICI.We developed and externally validated a simple prognostic score identifying patients at high risk of poor outcomes during ICB-containing therapies in early-phase trials. This tool may improve baseline risk stratification but should not be used as an exclusion criterion for enrollment.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Listeria swaminathanii UTK S2-0008, isolated from soil collected in the Nantahala National Forest in North Carolina, USA, is the only L. swaminathanii strain eligible to serve as the type strain, which is needed to achieve valid status. The previously effectively published type, L. swaminathanii FSL L7-0020T, and previously described strains UTK C1-0015 and UTK C1-0024 do not conform to the International Code of Nomenclature of Prokaryotes' rules for type strains. Additionally, the currently designated type strain (FSL L7-0020T = ATCC TSD-239T) is an atypical representative of L. swaminathanii as it is the only strain lacking catalase activity. Therefore, it is proposed to reassign the type to L. swaminathanii (UTK S2-0008T = CCUG 77280T = LMG 33255T). Whole-genome sequence-based average nucleotide identity (ANI) showed that this strain clustered with the three previously described L. swaminathanii strains (FSL L7-0020 = ATCC TSD-239, UTK C1-0015, and UTK C1-0024; pairwise ANI ranged from 98.71% to 98.83%). All four strains, including the one described here, could not be classified as any validly published Listeria species and showed the highest similarity to Listeria marthii (maximum ANI of 93.92%, in silico DNA-DNA hybridization of 56.2%). L. swaminathanii exhibits the phenotypic characteristics that are currently expected of the Listeria sensu stricto species. This species lacks phenotypic characteristics associated with Listeria pathogenicity (non-hemolytic and negative for phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase C activity); the genomes lack genes associated with virulence (all genes found on the Listeria pathogenicity island 1 [LIPI-1], as well as the internalin genes inlA and inlB), which support L. swaminathanii is nonpathogenic.IMPORTANCEThe genus Listeria includes species of significant relevance to food safety, environmental microbiology, and public health. Accurate species identification is critical because misidentification of nonpathogenic species as pathogenic ones can lead to unnecessary recalls and regulatory complications. The validation of Listeria swaminathanii sp. nov. will ensure that this species is formally recognized and has a type strain (UTK S2-0008T) that is representative of the species. This work strengthens diagnostic accuracy by enabling the inclusion of this species in reference databases and inclusivity studies, reducing the risk of false identification. Furthermore, the identification and characterization of Listeria swaminathanii sp. nov. expands our understanding of the genetic and ecological diversity within the genus Listeria, particularly among soil-dwelling strains.
To evaluate the prognostic significance of the Lung Immune Prognostic Index (LIPI) in patients with metastatic gastric cancer (mGC).We retrospectively analyzed 177 patients with mGC. Patients were stratified into three groups (good, intermediate, and poor) based on the LIPI score, which was calculated using a derived neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (dNLR) >3 and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) >upper limit of normal (ULN). Survival outcomes were analyzed using Kaplan-Meier and Cox regression models.In univariate analyses, intermediate and poor LIPI, elevated dNLR and LDH, ECOG performance status ≥1, low albumin, and high CRP were significantly associated with overall survival. In multivariate analysis, poor LIPI remained an independent prognostic factor (HR: 3.43; 95% CI: 1.30-9.05; p = 0.013). ECOG performance status and C-reactive protein (CRP) were also independently associated with survival. Subgroup analysis showed a more pronounced prognostic impact of LIPI in Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 2 (HER2)-negative patients.The LIPI is a simple, noninvasive, and inexpensive tool that provides strong prognostic information for patients with mGC, potentially aiding in better risk stratification in clinical practice.
Both short and long interpregnancy intervals have been associated with adverse health effects for mothers and infants. Short interpregnancy intervals (SIPI) are more common in low- and middle-income countries, including Ethiopia, while long interpregnancy intervals (LIPI) are less prevalent in these regions. Most research in Ethiopia has focused on short birth intervals. This study addresses both issues in its analysis.this study aimed to assess the pattern of interpregnancy intervals and determinants of short ([Formula: see text]24 months) and long ( [Formula: see text]60 months) interpregnancy intervals among pregnant women in Ethiopia.A population-based cross-sectional study was conducted using the 2019 Mini Ethiopian Demographic and Health Survey (EMDHS). This analysis included all non-first-time pregnant women interviewed during the EMDHS 2019 who were pregnant at the time of the survey and whose immediately preceding pregnancy had ended in a live birth. Multinomial multivariable logistic regression, accounting for the complex survey design, was employed to estimate adjusted relative risk (aRRR) and their corresponding 95% confidence intervals (CIs) to identify determinants of short and long interpregnancy intervals. Statistical significance was determined using 95% CIs. Data analysis was conducted using Stata version 17/MP.The prevalence of SIPI and LIPI was 39.1% and 15.5%, respectively. Women from poor and middle-income backgrounds exhibited a significantly lower likelihood of experiencing short intervals compared to those from the poorest households. Survival of the index child was also associated with a decreased relative risk of SIPI. Conversely, older maternal age was associated with an increased likelihood of LIPI. Factors such as completing primary education and higher parity were significantly associated with a reduced relative risk of LIPI.The high prevalence of short interpregnancy intervals in Ethiopia underscores a critical public health concern and highlights persistent gaps in reproductive health optimization. While the cross-sectional nature of the data and wide confidence intervals in certain subgroups warrant cautious interpretation, these findings clearly demonstrate the need for targeted, context-specific interventions. Specifically, strategies must address socioeconomic barriers and expand maternal education. Furthermore, future longitudinal research is essential to more precisely track and understand birth spacing dynamics across diverse communities.© 2026. The Author(s).
Listeria monocytogenes is a major foodborne pathogen capable of persisting and growing under refrigerated storage, raising food safety concerns for ready-to-eat (RTE) foods. This study investigated the occurrence, genetic and invasion characteristics of L. monocytogenes in five categories of RTE seafood products distributed in Japan: cod roe, seasoned cod roe, salmon roe, smoked salmon, and minced tuna. A total of 500 retail samples, comprising 100 samples per category, were examined in 2023. L. monocytogenes was detected most frequently in minced tuna (23%), followed by salmon roe (9%), seasoned cod roe (4%), cod roe (2%), and smoked salmon (2%). Quantification using a three-tube MPN method indicated generally low contamination levels, with most positive samples containing <10 MPN/g. However, physicochemical analyses of pH and water activity suggested that most products were capable of supporting the growth of L. monocytogenes during storage. Whole-genome sequencing of 40 isolates revealed substantial genomic diversity, classifying isolates into 14 clonal complexes and 27 cgMLST types, with no marked bias toward either BIGSdb-defined Lineage I or II. Gene content analysis identified stress survival islets, disinfectant tolerance-associated determinants, and virulence-associated loci, including LIPI-3 and LIPI-4, in specific clonal backgrounds. Epithelial invasion assays revealed wide variation in invasion phenotypes, with higher invasion among Lineage I isolates and near-zero invasion in isolates carrying premature stop codons in inlA. Overall, these findings highlight heterogeneous risk profiles among L. monocytogenes contaminating RTE seafood products in Japan.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Interstitial pneumonia with autoimmune features (IPAF) represents a heterogeneous entity overlapping with connective tissue disease-associated interstitial lung disease (CTD-ILD); however, its clinical course and prognostic determinants remain incompletely characterized.This study aimed to compare baseline characteristics, outcomes, and predictors of poor prognosis between IPAF and CTD-ILD, and to evaluate the prognostic performance of selected inflammatory indices.This study was designed as a single-center, retrospective cohort analysis evaluating clinical characteristics, radiological features, and prognostic outcomes in patients with interstitial lung disease.This retrospective cohort study included 88 patients with ILD, categorized as IPAF (n = 30) or CTD-ILD (n = 58), including systemic sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, and Sjögren's disease-associated ILD. Baseline demographic, clinical, radiological, and laboratory data were systematically analyzed. Poor prognosis was defined as the occurrence of at least one of the following during follow-up: >10% decline in forced vital capacity (FVC), development of a radiological progression, or the need for treatment escalation. Univariable and multivariable logistic regression analyses were performed to identify predictors of poor prognosis. Discriminative performance of the Gender-Age-Physiology (GAP) score, Lung Immune Prognostic Index (LIPI), and derived neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (dNLR) was evaluated using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis.Patients with IPAF were older at diagnosis compared with CTD-ILD (median 68.5 vs 56.0 years, p < 0.001), while female predominance was higher in CTD-ILD (81.0% vs 56.7%, p = 0.029). The GAP score was higher in IPAF, whereas anti-CCP positivity was more common in CTD-ILD. Despite these differences, clinical outcomes were comparable between groups, with no significant differences in FVC decline, development of radiological progression, treatment escalation, antifibrotic initiation, or composite poor prognosis. In univariable analysis, an increased persistent erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) and C-reactive protein were associated with poor prognosis. In multivariable analysis, persistent ESR elevation remained an independent predictor (OR 3.25, 95% CI 1.15-9.23, p = 0.027). ROC analysis showed limited discriminative performance (AUC < 0.60) for GAP, LIPI, and dNLR.Although IPAF and CTD-ILD differ in baseline phenotype, their clinical trajectories appear similar. Persistent systemic inflammation, reflected by sustained ESR elevation, independently predicts adverse outcomes, while commonly used prognostic scores demonstrate limited utility.
Introduction. Listeriosis is a food-borne disease associated with Listeria monocytogenes, with high mortality in individuals with weakened immune systems. In Colombia, notification of the disease is not mandatory. Objective. To characterize phenotypically and genomically the clinical isolates of L. monocytogenes isolated from 2010 to 2017 in Colombia. Materials and methods. A total of 63 of the 443 isolates of L. monocytogenes were analyzed by laboratory surveillance of the Grupo de Microbiología at the Instituto Nacional de Salud. Antimicrobial susceptibility, serological test (O-H) antigens and PCR, pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE)-ApaI enzyme as well as whole genome sequencing (WGS) were performed. Fatalities attributed to L. monocytogenes were identified using SIVIGILA. Results. An estimated 50.73% of the isolates were females, in adults ≥ 15 years old (54%) and were recovered from blood cultures (58.7%), sensitive to penicillin and to trimethoprimsulfamethoxazole. Of the isolates, 77.8% were of the complex serogroup 4b-4d-4e; 42 patterns PFGE-ApaI were determined. Genomic sequencing of five isolates identified multilocus sequencing typing (MLST) ST1, ST2, ribosomal MLST (rMLST) 15992, 15983, 15959, 98481, clonal complex CC1, CC2, lineage I, and serotype 4b in silico. Virulence genes identified included pathogenicity island LIPI-1, LIPI-3 and internalins. Resistance genes included fosX, fosS-2, lin, norB and mprF. The plasmid J1776, and prophages vB_LmoS_293, LP_030_2, LP_030_3, A118 were identified. Global phylogenetic analysis identified that the closest sequences belonged to lineage I, and were from France, Chile, Perú and India. Conclusions. Strengthening epidemiological and laboratory surveillance would improve the control measures in public health.
This study aims to elucidate the microbial and metabolic mechanisms underlying the therapeutic effects of Saccharomyces boulardii and the Lipi compound-composed Chinese medicine in alleviating infantile anorexia.The study conducted comprehensive analyses with 16S rRNA gene sequencing and metabolomics to compare microbial composition and diversity among control, anorexia, Saccharomyces boulardii treatment, and Lipi compound-composed Chinese medicine treatment groups. Furthermore, network pharmacology was employed to identify active compounds and their target genes in the Lipi compound-composed Chinese medicine. The Saccharomyces boulardii treatment group showed a partial recovery in microbial species richness and significant changes in metabolites, suggesting its role in modulating the gut microbiota and metabolic profile. The Lipi compound-composed Chinese medicine treatment group demonstrated significant improvements in microbial diversity and metabolic profiles, with key genera such as Corynebacterium, Bifidobacterium, and Allobaculum showing substantial recovery. Moreover, the Lipi compound-composed Chinese medicine showed a superior ability to restore ghrelin levels compared to Saccharomyces boulardii. Notably, key target genes such as CYP1A2, CYP3A4, and PLA2G4A were closely associated with the therapeutic effects of the Chinese medicine.Both Saccharomyces boulardii and the Lipi compound-composed Chinese medicine alleviated infantile anorexia by modulating gut microbiota and host metabolism, but the Lipi formula showed superior efficacy in restoring microbial diversity, ghrelin/GHSR signalling, and linoleic acid metabolism. These findings identify the Lipi compound-composed Chinese medicine as a more effective microbiota-targeted intervention and provide mechanistic support for its further development in the treatment of infantile anorexia.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Applied Microbiology International. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site-for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Short-chain chlorinated paraffins (SCCPs), ubiquitous persistent organic pollutants, have been increasingly implicated in metabolic disorders; however, their developmental effects on hepatic lipid metabolism in offspring remain poorly understood. This study aimed to investigate whether gestational SCCPs exposure induces hepatic lipid accumulation in adult offspring and elucidate the underlying mechanisms. Pregnant C57BL/6J mice were orally administered SCCPs (0, 1, 10, or 100 mg/kg) from gestational day 0 (GD0) to GD18. At 12 weeks of age, male offspring exposed to the medium dose of SCCPs developed pronounced hepatic steatosis, as evidenced by increased hepatic and serum triglyceride levels and excessive lipid droplet accumulation, whereas female offspring exhibited no significant alterations, indicating a sex-specific and non-monotonic dose-response pattern. Mechanistically, gestational SCCPs exposure markedly upregulated key regulators involved in fatty acid uptake and triglyceride synthesis, including CD36, GPAT4, and DGAT2. In vitro, serum from medium-dose SCCPs-exposed adult male offspring induced lipid accumulation in AML12 hepatocytes, which was significantly attenuated by pharmacological inhibition of CD36. Furthermore, gestational SCCPs exposure was associated with increased PPAR-γ/CD36 pathway in vivo and in vitro, whereas pharmacological inhibition of PPAR-γ suppressed CD36 expression and alleviated lipid accumulation in hepatocytes. Collectively, these findings suggest that gestational SCCPs exposure promotes male-specific hepatic steatosis in adult offspring potentially through PPAR-γ-mediated enhancement of fatty acid uptake and triglyceride synthesis, providing new evidence that early-life SCCPs exposure can developmentally program long-term hepatic metabolic dysfunction.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Activating tumor-intrinsic innate immune pathways can promote tumor antigen presentation and immune cell recruitment, thereby improving the immunosuppressive microenvironment and overcoming resistance to immune checkpoint blockade (ICB). However, the specific molecular targets remain insufficiently defined. Bioinformatic analysis revealed that Glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase 4 (GPAT4) is highly expressed in various tumors, including pancreatic cancer and breast cancer, and is significantly associated with low immunogenicity, poor immune-cell infiltration, and unfavorable prognosis. Syngeneic C57BL/6J and BALB/c tumor-bearing experiments showed that Gpat4-deficient pancreatic and breast tumors grew more slowly and exhibited increased infiltration of CD8+ T lymphocytes and enhanced CD8+ T cell effector-marker expression. Mechanistic studies indicated that GPAT4 deficiency leads to mitochondrial stress and the release of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) into the cytoplasm, thereby activating the cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) signaling pathway. Interestingly, this process is independent of the metabolic enzyme activity of GPAT4. Single-cell analysis of breast and pancreatic tumors revealed that tumors with low GPAT4 expression exhibit higher levels of interferon response pathway activity and greater infiltration of immune cells, particularly CD8+ T cells and natural killer (NK) cells, which directly mediate tumor killing. In conclusion, our study identifies GPAT4 as a critical innate immune checkpoint molecule in tumor cells. Targeting this molecule can activate tumor-intrinsic innate immune pathways, thereby enhancing antitumor immune responses.© 2026 The Authors.
Bisphenol A (BPA) is widely used in plastic manufacturing and is frequently detected in marine environments. Although the toxicological effects of BPA on fish have been extensively documented, empirical studies on its effects on lower aquatic invertebrates remain extremely scarce. To evaluate the responses of Meretrix petechialis (an important mariculture economic species and a sensitive biological indicator) to BPA at dosages of 1, 10, and 100 μg/L, a thorough examination of the behavior, histology, transcriptomics, and metabolomics was carried out. Our study indicates that BPA significantly impede the oxygen consumption rates, filtration rates, and ammonia-nitrogen excretion rates of M. petechialis. Additionally, BPA induced hepatopancreatic injury and promoted the accumulation of lipid droplets and autophagosomes. Subsequently, oil red O staining confirmed abnormal lipid deposition. Omics analysis identified numerous differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and differentially accumulated metabolites (DAMs). At 1 μg/L, arachidonic acid and alpha-linolenic acid pathways were enriched with downregulation of GPAT4; at 10 μg/L, additional dysregulation of linoleic acid and glycerophospholipid pathways with upregulation of PLA2G2A and CPLA2; at 100 μg/L, downregulation of ALOX5 and CYP2C23 coincided with severe tissue damage. The results of the conjoint analysis revealed that both arachidonic acid and linoleic acid metabolism pathways were significantly enriched in all BPA treatment groups. This work enhances the knowledge of the lipid metabolism toxicity associated with BPA exposure in marine clam and highlights the toxicity concern posed by BPA to lower aquatic invertebrate species.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Lipophagy, the selective autophagic degradation of lipid droplets (LDs), is central to cellular lipid homeostasis, yet its dynamic regulation in living organisms has remained largely unobservable in real time. To overcome this barrier, we recently developed the mCherry‑eGFP‑LiveDrop (tfLiveDrop) reporter mice, in which a pH‑sensitive tandem fluorescent probe targeted to LDs via the GPAT4‑derived LiveDrop domain enables real‑time, single‑cell visualization of lipophagic flux in vivo. Using tfLiveDrop mice, we uncovered pronounced organ heterogeneity in basal lipophagy, identified an organ‑specific lipophagic inhibition in type 2 diabetes, and revealed a previously unrecognized developmentally programmed lipophagy induction that drives renal metabolic maturation. Together, these findings demonstrate that tfLiveDrop is a sensitive and versatile reporter for in vivo lipophagy research.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group.
Numerous metabolic enzymes translocate from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane bilayer to the lipid droplet (LD) monolayer, where they perform essential functions. Mislocalization of certain LD-targeted membrane proteins, including HSD17B13 and PNPLA3, is implicated in metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease. However, the mechanisms governing the trafficking and accumulation of ER proteins on LDs remain poorly understood. Here using minimal fluorescence photon fluxes nanoscopy and highly inclined and laminated optical single-molecule tracking combined with machine learning, we show that HSD17B13, GPAT4 and the model cargo 'LiveDrop' diffuse at comparable speeds in the ER and on LDs, but become nano-confined upon reaching the LD surface. Mechanistic dissection of LiveDrop targeting revealed that this confinement, along with protein accumulation on LDs, depends on specific residues within its targeting motif. These residues mediate preferential interactions with nanoscale membrane domains, suggesting that LD-targeted proteins selectively partition into distinct lipid-protein environments that transiently alter local motion and concentrate them at the LD surface. Single-molecule trajectories further revealed bidirectional trafficking of LiveDrop across seipin-containing ER-LD bridges, providing direct evidence for lateral protein transfer across membrane contact sites. These findings establish nanodomain-based confinement as a key mechanism driving selective protein accumulation on LDs and reveal how membrane bridges between organelles facilitate protein sorting.© 2026. The Author(s).
The synthesis of glycerolipid is essential to prevent the toxic effects of excess fatty acids. Glycerolipids are generated by the sequential attachment of acyl-CoA to glycerol by endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-localized acyltransferases, ultimately yielding non-toxic triacylglycerol that can be stored in lipid droplets. The key acyltransferase GPAT4 associates with the CHP1 protein, but the regulation of GPAT4 remains poorly understood. Here, we have used genetic, biochemical, and imaging techniques to identify TMEM120A as GPAT4-activating protein. We show that ER-localized TMEM120A and CHP1 synergistically activate GPAT4 and promote the incorporation of medium and long chain acyl-CoA into glycerolipid. C. elegans mutants of TMEM120A or CHP1 ortholog are susceptible to high-fat diet induced sterility, in part due to their deficiency in lipid droplet expansion. In mammalian cells, fatty acid supplementation and myristoylated CHP1 enhance the association of TMEM120A with GPAT4. Together, our results reveal an unexpected mechanism that alleviates lipotoxicity.© 2026. The Author(s).
Microglial activation is a central mediator of neuroinflammatory and neurodegenerative processes. Growing evidence indicates that dysregulated lipid metabolism and ferroptosis drive microglial dysfunction, yet pharmacological interventions targeting these interconnected pathways remain scarce. Fenofibrate is well-documented for its anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects; nevertheless, its influence on microglial lipid metabolism and ferroptotic signaling remains unexplored. The present study was designed to examine the effects of fenofibrate on lipid remodeling, oxidative stress, and ferroptosis in human HMC3 microglia activated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and interferon-γ (IFN-γ). HMC3 cells were pre-treated with fenofibrate followed by inflammatory activation. Cell viability, cytokine secretion, oxidative stress, lipid droplet (LD) accumulation, and ferroptosis-associated markers were analyzed by ELISA, fluorescence imaging, qRT-PCR, and Western blotting. Fenofibrate decreased the production of TNF-α, IL-1β, and IL-6, restored mitochondrial membrane potential, and suppressed ROS and malondialdehyde (MDA) generation while increasing intracellular glutathione (GSH). The treatment markedly decreased LD accumulation by downregulating the lipid metabolism-related enzymes PLIN2, DGAT1, and GPAT4. Functional assays demonstrated enhanced fatty acid oxidation and restored lipolysis, directly confirming reprogrammed lipid catabolism. Moreover, fenofibrate attenuated ferroptotic stress, evidenced by reduced intracellular Fe²⁺ levels, decreased ACSL4 expression, and significant increase of the ferroptosis-protective enzyme GPX4. These molecular changes were accompanied by improved cell survival and decreased oxidative damage, suggesting that fenofibrate may partially modulate metabolic and and redox balance in activated microglia under in vitro conditions. In conclusion, these findings suggest that fenofibrate may exert protective effects by modulating lipid metabolism and suppressing ferroptosis-related pathways in activated microglia.© 2026. The Author(s).
Lipophagy, a selective form of autophagy, is critical for maintaining cellular lipid homeostasis. However, understanding its dynamic regulation and pathophysiological significance in vivo has been hindered by a lack of sensitive and versatile monitoring tools. To address this gap, we generated the tfLiveDrop (mCherry-eGFP-LiveDrop) reporter mouse by integrating a tandem mCherry-eGFP fluorescent probe with the lipid droplet-targeting domain of glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase 4 (GPAT4, the rate-limiting enzyme in triacylglycerol synthesis), termed the LiveDrop domain. This model enables real-time, spatiotemporal visualization of lipophagic flux at single-cell resolution in living animals. We initially validated the sensitivity and specificity of the tfLiveDrop reporter in primary renal tubular epithelial cells (TECs). Systemic mapping of lipophagic activity across organs revealed pronounced heterogeneity in basal lipophagic activity under physiological conditions. Furthermore, in a model of type 2 diabetes, we demonstrated that lipophagic flux is dysregulated in a tissue-specific manner in male mice, underscoring its pivotal role in disease-associated lipid metabolism. Notably, longitudinal tracking during kidney development uncovered a programmed wave of lipophagic activity that is essential for lipid homeostasis during renal maturation. Our findings provide a powerful and versatile platform for in vivo lipophagy research, establishing a foundation for elucidating its functional contributions to metabolic disorders and organ development.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Fat deposition plays a crucial role in regulating the production performance and meat quality of broilers. Although the heterogeneity of mammalian adipocytes has been extensively studied, research on the molecular mechanisms underlying differences in lipid droplet accumulation in avian adipocytes remains limited. This study confirmed a significant positive correlation (R2 > 0.81, p < 0.001) between the SSC signal and lipid droplet content via fluorescence staining of lipid droplets, Oil Red O staining, and triglyceride (TG) quantification. Based on this, a label-free sorting strategy using SSC signals was established to sort differentiated chicken preadipocytes, obtaining high lipid droplet (H) and low lipid droplet (L) subpopulations, which were subsequently subjected to transcriptome sequencing and differential gene expression (DEG) analysis, followed by GO and KEGG enrichment analysis. The results indicated no significant differences in the expression of adipogenesis marker genes (PPARG, LPL, CD36, PLIN1, PLIN2) between the high lipid droplet (H) and low lipid droplet (L) groups, suggesting that both groups are at similar stages of differentiation. KEGG analysis revealed that both the H vs. NC and L vs. NC comparisons were enriched in common pathways, including the PPAR signaling pathway, ECM-receptor interaction, focal adhesion, cytokine-receptor interaction, and calcium-Apelin signaling pathway, suggesting that both groups of cells had activated the adipogenesis program. GO analysis showed that, in both H vs. NC and L vs. NC comparisons, differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were enriched in biological processes (BPs) related to cell adhesion, nucleosome assembly, chromatin remodeling, and receptor activity, as well as cellular components (CCs) such as the extracellular matrix, cytoskeleton, and nucleosome organization, indicating extensive gene reprogramming and activation of signaling transduction during differentiation. In the H vs. L comparison, enriched pathways included ABC transporters, ECM-receptor interaction, focal adhesion, gap junctions, microtubule-related processes, and neuroactive ligand-receptor interactions, involving lipid transmembrane transport, cytoskeleton stabilization, and signal transduction regulation, suggesting that high lipid droplet cells are more mature in lipid droplet transport, storage, and homeostasis maintenance. GO enrichment results further supported this conclusion, as H vs. L specifically enriched processes related to microtubule-related processes, cell cycle, and redox reactions (BPs), as well as chromosome organization, cytoskeleton, and motor activity (CC/MF), indicating that high lipid droplet cells maintain lipid droplet fusion and metabolic homeostasis via enhanced microtubule transport and antioxidant regulation. Differential gene analysis revealed that the L group upregulated genes associated with fatty acid synthesis and elongation (ACACA, FASN, SCD, FADS2, ELOVL1), cholesterol and isoprenoid biosynthesis (HMGCR, SQLE, MSMO1, DHCR7, DHCR24, FDPS, LSS), and fatty acid oxidation (PPARA, PPARD, ACAD11, SIRT5), reflecting a metabolic characteristic of concurrent lipid synthesis and mobilization; the H group, conversely, upregulated genes associated with lipid droplet formation and storage (G0S2, MOGAT1, GPAT4, PLIN4, AUP1), lipid transport (ABCA1, ABCA2, ABCG1, OSBPL3, VLDLR), and antioxidant defense (GPX3, GPX4, HMOX1), exhibiting a storage and homeostasis-oriented metabolic state. In the NC, L, and H groups, the expression of five genes-GEM, SPP1, ABCA1, PDLIM3, and ITGA8-showed a gradual increase, suggesting that these genes were associated with preadipocyte differentiation and lipid droplet deposition. In summary, although the high and low lipid droplet subpopulations of chicken preadipocytes exhibit similar differentiation states, they form distinct metabolic orientations. The L group is characterized by active lipid synthesis, fatty acid oxidation, and membrane lipid remodeling, while the H group predominantly features lipid droplet storage, lipid transport, and antioxidant homeostasis. This study highlights the molecular mechanisms underlying the metabolic heterogeneity of avian adipocytes and provides a theoretical basis for poultry fat deposition regulation and genetic improvement.
The quality and flavor of chicken meat are the key factors that influence consumers' purchase decisions. Recent studies have demonstrated that polyphenol can modulate meat quality. In this study, an integrated multi-omics approach was utilized to systematically identify the regulatory effect of dietary supplementation with polyphenols extracts of C. osmantha leaves (PECOL) on chicken flavor. It was found that dietary PECOL supplementation enhanced breast meat flavor and increased fatty acid ethyl ester compounds in the breast muscle. Moreover, PECOL supplementation reshaped the composition and proportions of gut microbiota across multiple taxonomic levels, with a notable enrichment of taxa within the phylum Firmicutes (e.g., g_Massilistercora). Furthermore, the addition of PECOL altered the contents of cecal metabolites related to lipid and glucose metabolism, such as PC (14:1(9Z)/21:0), PC (P-16:0/15:1(9Z)), LysoPE (20:4(8Z, 11Z, 14Z, 17Z)/0:0), and glycerol 3-phosphate. Notably, we found that g_Massilistercora was significantly correlated with the content of these metabolites related to lipid and glucose metabolism. Further analysis revealed that these metabolites might interact with GPAT4 to jointly regulate chicken flavor. These findings further clarify the regulatory role played by PECOL in shaping the flavor of broiler meat.
Kidney stone disease (KSD) is multifactorial, and the genetic basis is poorly understood among the East Asian population. This study aims to elucidate comprehensive genetic factors associated with KSD.We conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) on Taiwanese Han Chinese individuals from the Taiwan Biobank to investigate genetic predispositions to KSD. A total of 108,483 participants were included, of whom 7,635 reported having KSD. A phenome-wide association study (PheWAS) leveraging the National Health Insurance Research Database was used to verify GWAS findings and explore disease associations. We also assessed individual genetic risk for KSD using a polygenic risk score (PRS).Our analysis identified significant associations with KSD at single-nucleotide polymorphisms rs1481012 (odds ratio = 1.13, p = 5.53 × 10-11) and rs12872074 (odds ratio = 1.16, p = 4.77 × 10-17) on chromosomes 4 and 13, respectively. We pinpointed ABCG2, DGKH, and a novel locus PKD2. Biological pathways, including protein dimerization and CD4+ T-cell regulation, were identified in gene-set analysis. PheWAS confirmed the association of these lead variants with calculus of kidney and various phenotypes. PRS reached an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve of 0.97 on the discovery sample.This comprehensive study highlights the significant genetic contributors to KSD in an East Asian population. Our findings underscore the potential of using a national health database to validate our analyses and reveal novel disease correlations, which supported immune dysregulation in disease pathogenesis. PRS highlights the contribution of genetic variants to KSD risk and suggests potential for future clinical application, although validation in independent populations will be required to determine its predictive utility.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Metabolic disorders represent a global health challenge requiring novel therapeutic strategies targeting the gut-liver axis. This study investigates the protective effects and mechanisms of lentinan, a bioactive polysaccharide from Lentinus edodes, against high-fat diet (HFD)-induced metabolic dysfunction. HFD-fed mice were treated with lentinan. Comprehensive phenotypic assessments, metagenome sequencing, hepatic transcriptomics, and correlation analyses were performed to elucidate mechanisms. Lentinan intervention significantly ameliorated dyslipidemia, hepatic steatosis, systemic inflammation, and intestinal barrier dysfunction in HFD-fed mice. Mechanistically, lentinan induced taxonomically selective gut microbiota remodeling, characterized by substantial enrichment of Parabacteroides goldsteinii (positively correlated with hepatic Plppr3 expression) and reduction of Romboutsia ilealis (negatively correlated with Dgkh and Nfat5), while paradoxically decreasing Akkermansia muciniphila despite metabolic improvements. Hepatic transcriptomics revealed significant downregulation of glycerolipid metabolism and oxidative phosphorylation pathways, directly correlating with reduced lipid accumulation and improved serum biochemistry. Unlike conventional prebiotics, lentinan functions as a precision modulator of specific microbial metabolic functions, particularly L-arginine and uridine 5'-monophosphate (UMP) biosynthesis pathways, which interface with host inflammatory and lipid metabolism. These findings establish lentinan as a promising therapeutic candidate for metabolic syndrome management through coordinated gut microbiota-liver axis modulation, providing a conceptual framework for developing precision microbiome-targeted interventions.Copyright © 2026 Cao, Huang, Zhang, Zhang, Zhao, Long, Zhu and Li.
NRAS mutations occur in 10%-30% of cutaneous melanomas and are associated with high tumor mutational burden. Mutant NRAS signaling drives aberrant cell growth and proliferation, in part, through activation of the RAF-MEK-ERK1/2 kinase pathway; however, targeted therapies to this pathway have limited effectiveness in patients with NRAS mutant melanoma. The role of other targetable signaling pathways in NRAS mutant melanoma is poorly characterized. Here, we demonstrated that one isoform of diacylglycerol kinase, diacylglycerol kinase eta (DGKη), a lipid signaling regulator, was highly expressed in NRAS mutant melanoma patient samples. Knockdown of DGKH in NRAS mutant melanoma cell lines resulted in significant growth inhibition in vitro. Transcriptomic data indicated downregulation of the estrogen response late signature, including decreased CCND1 (cyclin D1) expression following DGKH knockdown. Cell growth inhibition and decreased cyclin D1 expression correlated to an inhibition of cell cycle after DGKH knockdown. These data suggest that DGKη mediates cell cycle progression in NRAS mutant melanoma cells and represents a potential therapeutic target for these patients.© 2026 The Author(s). Pigment Cell & Melanoma Research published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 41323031
This research was carried out to assess the impact of daidzein supplementation on production performance, serum biochemical indexes, meat quality, and the transcriptome of the longissimus dorsi (LM) muscle in heat-stressed Jinjiang cattle. Twenty 20-month-old Jinjiang cattle (initial mean ± SE: 438 ± 34.6 kg of body weight) were randomly divided into two treatment groups (n = 10 per treatment): control treatment and daidzein treatment (1000 mg/kg concentrate). After a 100-day feeding trial (consisting of a 10-day adaptation period and a 90-day daidzein feeding period), blood and LM muscle samples were collected on day 100. Daidzein significantly increased the average daily dry matter intake (ADMI), the concentration of free fatty acid (FFA) and glutamic-pyruvic transaminase (ALT) in serum, and the marbling score of the LM muscle. Additionally, daidzein significantly decreased the concentration of total cholesterol (TC) and leptin in serum, along with the shear force and L* value of LM in heat-stressed Jinjiang cattle. The transcriptome analysis demonstrated that 238 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified through differential expression analysis, among which 168 genes were downregulated and 70 genes were upregulated. The results of KEGG pathways showed that these DEGs were significantly enriched in pathways related to beef tenderness, including the FoxO signaling pathway, Notch signaling pathway, and regulation of the actin cytoskeleton. Daidzein significantly affected the candidate genes (FOSL1, DGKH, Gadd45G, GAL, SEMA3, TOB, FABP8, TRIB2, Nech1, and GSTA3) involved in adipocyte differentiation, as well as genes (CSTB and ACTN) related to connective tissue structure in heat-stressed Jinjiang cattle. Daidzein plays a positive role in relieving heat stress and improving beef quality in heat-stressed Jinjiang cattle.
Diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN) is one of the most common chronic complications of diabetes. The increased apoptosis of Schwann cells (SCs) induced by high glucose (HG) is significant in the pathogenesis of DPN, but the mechanism remains unclear. Diacylglycerol kinase eta (Dgkh) is a member of the diacylglycerol kinases (DGKs) family that participates in glucose uptake, utilization, and energy homeostasis. But its role in DPN has not been reported.Streptozotocin (STZ)-induced SD rats were used as an animal model of DPN and human Schwann cells (HSCs) were used as an in vitro model of simulated HG conditions. Behavioral tests, histopathology, the mRNA and protein expression levels were detected in vivo. Further, Dgkh was knocked down in vitro, and PKC-α agonist PMA and inhibitor Ro 31-8220 were added to HSCs to observe the effect of Dgkh/PKC-α on HSCs apoptosis.The mechanical and thermal pain thresholds were significantly decreased in DPN rats induced by STZ. The increased apoptosis of the sciatic nerve in STZ-induced DPN rats is accompanied by the upregulation of Dgkh expression. HG leads to increased HSCs apoptosis by Dgkh increased expression. Meanwhile, the knockdown of Dgkh significantly improved HSCs apoptosis induced by HG. PMA effectively improved apoptosis in HG-induced HSCs, but did not affect Dgkh expression. And we discovered that the apoptosis of HSCs reversed by Dgkh knockdown vanished when the PKC-α inhibitor Ro 31-8220 was added.Dgkh expression increased under HG conditions and triggered apoptosis of HSCs, boosting DPN via inhibiting PKC-α.© 2025. Associazione Medici Diabetologi / Association of Diabetologists (AMD), Societa Italiana di Diabetologia / Italian Society of Diabetology (SID).
This study aims to analyze the whole-genome DNA methylation differences in Yili horses before and after racing, with the goal of identifying differentially methylated genes associated with racing performance and exploring the epigenetic mechanisms underlying exercise in horses. Blood samples were collected from the jugular veins of the top 3 Yili horses in a 5000 m race, which included 25 competitors, both prior to and within 5 min after the race. Genomic DNA was extracted, followed by sequencing using Whole-Genome Bisulfite Sequencing (WGBS) to assess DNA methylation levels, differentially methylated regions (DMRs), and differentially methylated genes (DMGs). Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analyses were performed on the identified DMGs to select candidate genes potentially associated with equine exercise. A total of 18,374 differentially methylated CG regions, 254 differentially methylated CHG regions, and 584 differentially methylated CHH regions were identified. A total of 4293 DMGs were anchored in gene bodies and 2187 DMGs in promoter regions. Functional analysis revealed that these DMGs were mainly enriched in terms related to binding and kinase activity, as well as pathways such as PI3K-Akt signaling and Kaposi sarcoma-associated herpesvirus infection. Further analysis indicated that genes such as IFNAR2, FGF4, and DGKH could be potential candidate genes associated with equine athletic performance. The findings of this study contribute to understanding the epigenetic regulatory mechanisms of equine athletic performance, providing a reference for further in-depth research on horse racing.
Novel biomarkers are needed to better identify-and distinguish-heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) from other clinical phenotypes. The goal of our study was to identify epigenetic-sensitive biomarkers useful to a more accurate diagnosis of HFpEF. We performed a network-oriented genome-wide DNA methylation study of circulating CD4+ T lymphocytes isolated from peripheral blood using reduced representation bisulfite sequencing (RRBS) in two cohorts (i.e., discovery/validation) each of both male and female patients with HFpEF (n = 12/10), HF with reduced EF (HFrEF; n = 7/5), and volunteers lacking clinical evidence of HF (CON; n = 7/5). RRBS is the gold-standard platform for measuring genome-wide DNA methylation changes at single-cytosine resolution in hypothesis-generating studies. We identified three hypomethylated HFpEF-specific differentially methylated positions (DMPs) associated with FOXB1, ELMOD1, and DGKH genes wherein ROC curve analysis revealed that increased expression levels had a reasonable diagnostic performance in predicting HFpEF (AUC ≥ 0.8, p < 0.05). Network analysis identified additional three genes including JUNB (p = 0.037), SETD7 (p = 0.003), and MEF2D (p = 0.0001) which were significantly higher in HFpEF vs. HFrEF patients. ROC curve analysis showed that integrating the functional H2FPEF classification with the expression levels of the FOXB1, ELMOD1, and DGKH as well as the JUNB, SETD7, and MEF2D genes improved diagnostic accuracy, with AUC = 0.8 (p < 0.0001) as compared to H2FPEF score alone (p > 0.05). Besides, increased expression levels of SETD7-RELA-IL6 axis significantly discriminated overweight/obese HFpEF vs. HFrEF patients (AUC = 1; p = 0.001, p = 0.006, p = 0.006, respectively). We support an emerging dogma that indirect epigenetic testing via high-resolution RRBS methylomics represents a non-invasive tool that may enable easier access to both diagnostic and mechanistic insights of HFpEF. An epigenetic-oriented dysregulation of network-derived SETD7-RELA-IL6 axis in circulating CD4+ T lymphocytes may drive pro-inflammatory responses which, in turn, may lead to cardiac remodeling in overweight/obese HFpEF.© 2024. Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
HCC is characterized by metabolic pathway aberrations, which enable cancer cells to meet their energy demands and accelerate malignant progression. Identifying novel metabolic players governing therapy resistance and self-renewal in HCC is crucial, as these properties are likely responsible for tumor recurrence.Clinical traits and RNA-seq of patients with HCC in The Cancer Genome Atlas were used for weighted gene coexpression network analysis, where 1 module was significantly correlated with advanced pathological stage and stem cell population maintenance. Further analysis of this module by integrating data obtained from HCC patient nonresponders to tyrosine kinase inhibitors identified 361 commonly deregulated genes. Intriguingly, these genes are significantly enriched in the intracellular signal transduction pathway, with diacylglycerol kinase eta (DGKH) ranked as the most enriched gene in poorly differentiated HCC tumors. Clinically, DGKH was elevated in tumor tissues compared to nontumor tissues. Patients with higher DGKH expression exhibited a more undifferentiated state and were less responsive to tyrosine kinase inhibitors. Functional assays using DGKH-manipulated HCC cell lines demonstrated that DGKH augmented aggressive features, including cancer stemness, therapy resistance, and metastasis. Upstream of DGKH , we discovered that the E1A-associated protein p300 (EP300) binds to DGKH's promoter region, thereby increasing its transcriptomic expression. Mechanistically, DGKH promotes mTOR signaling by producing phosphatidic acid. In an immunocompetent mouse model, cotreatment with sorafenib and liver-directed AAV8-mediated Dgkh depletion significantly reduced tumor burden, self-renewal, phosphatidic acid production, and mTOR signaling.Our research demonstrated that DGKH is a crucial oncometabolic regulator of cancer stemness and therapy resistance, suggesting that inhibiting DGKH may lead to more effective HCC treatment.Copyright © 2024 American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.
Cardiolipin (CL) is a unique dimeric phospholipid essential for mitochondrial integrity and stress signaling. While most CL is present in the inner mitochondrial membranes (IMM), CL can be exposed to the outer mitochondrial membrane (OMM) under specific physiological and pathological conditions; however, the mechanisms regulating its metabolism at the OMM are poorly defined. Based on its striking structural similarity to Cld1p, a yeast CL hydrolase, we hypothesized that α/β-hydrolase domain-containing protein 4 (ABHD4) functions as a mammalian CL hydrolase. We identified two isoforms of mouse ABHD4 arising from alternative splicing: ABHD4-1 localizes to lipid droplets, whereas ABHD4-2 selectively targets mitochondria and is enriched in oxidative tissues. We demonstrate that ABHD4 selectively hydrolyzes CL in vitro, producing monolysocardiolipin (MLCL) and dilysocardiolipin (DLCL). Site-directed mutagenesis identified catalytic serine residues as essential for enzymatic activity in ABHD4 and its Drosophila homolog, Pummelig. In contrast to Cld1p, which resides in the IMM, topological analyses indicate that ABHD4-2 and Pummelig-2 localize to the cytosolic face of the OMM, a conserved orientation that suggests a function distinct from classic acyl chain remodeling of CL. In brown adipocytes, ABHD4-2 overexpression reduces mitochondrial membrane potential in an activity-dependent manner. In silico analyses further reveal conservation of the catalytic triad across yeast, insect, and mammalian orthologs, supporting an evolutionarily conserved role for this enzyme family in CL metabolism. Together, these findings identify ABHD4-2 as an OMM-localized phospholipase with preferential CL hydrolase activity and define an isoform-specific pathway linking CL metabolism to mitochondrial stress responses.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Retinal neurodegeneration leads to progressive and irreversible vision loss driven by retinal ganglion cell (RGC) death, yet effective neuroprotective therapies remain lacking. Recent studies suggest that small non-coding RNAs play key roles in central nervous system injury, but their relevance to retinal neurodegeneration remains incompletely understood. Here, we identify a significant increase in 5'tiRNA-His-GTG, an ANG-generated tRNA-derived fragment, in mouse models of retinal neurodegeneration. Functionally, elevated 5'tiRNA-His-GTG promotes reactive gliosis and contributes to RGC degeneration through Müller cell-RGC crosstalk. Conversely, inhibition of 5'tiRNA-His-GTG attenuates glial activation, preserves RGC survival, and improves visual function and vision-dependent behaviors. Mechanistically, 5'tiRNA-His-GTG induces neurodegenerative changes by suppressing the LPCAT1-mediated phosphatidylcholine (PC) biosynthetic pathway and perturbing glycerophospholipid metabolism. Notably, restoration of LPCAT1 expression or PC levels reverses 5'tiRNA-His-GTG-induced neurodegeneration both in vitro and in vivo. These findings uncover a previously unrecognized 5'tiRNA-His-GTG-LPCAT1-PC regulatory pathway that contributes to retinal neurodegeneration. Collectively, our study identifies 5'tiRNA-His-GTG as a critical mediator of glial-driven neuroinflammation and neuronal loss, and highlights this signaling axis as a potential therapeutic target for retinal neurodegeneration.© 2026 The Author(s). MedComm published by Sichuan International Medical Exchange & Promotion Association (SCIMEA) and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Oocyte quality determines fertilization success during the reproductive period of fish and is affected by a key intrinsic factor: the level of lipid deposition in the yolk. In this study, lipidomics was used to characterize lipid profiles of adipose tissue, liver, serum and ovary to clarify divergent hepatic lipid allocation to fat depots versus ovary in Sichuan taimen (Hucho bleekeri). The results showed that glycerophospholipids (GPs) constituted the most diverse lipid class across all four tissues, with phosphatidylcholine (PC) being the most abundant in each tissue. Relative to adipose tissue, liver, and serum, the ovary exhibited significant enrichment of PC and phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) and higher accumulation of docosahexaenoic acid (DHA)- and arachidonic acid (ARA)-containing GPs and triacylglycerols (TGs), as well as enrichment in TGs, diacylglycerols (DGs), and cardiolipin (CL), compared to adipose tissue. The expression levels of fads6, elovl2, elovl5, dgat1b, dgat2, pparα, nfyb, and fabp7 were higher in the liver, while lpcat1 was highly expressed specifically in the ovary. The results of this study demonstrate that long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (LC-PUFAs) exhibited selective enrichment in the ovary, which facilitates yolk lipid deposition and provides structural and energetic support for oocyte development and early embryonic development. From a lipidomic perspective, this study reveals the regulatory characteristics underlying ovarian yolk deposition in H. bleekeri, providing important evidence for understanding the mechanisms of egg quality formation as well as a theoretical basis for broodstock management, artificial propagation, and the improvement of egg and larval quality.
To systematically evaluate the prognostic significance of mitochondrial ATP synthase subunits in breast cancer and to investigate the clinical relevance, biological function, and metabolic role of ATP5F1B in breast cancer progression.Publicly available breast cancer transcriptomic profiles with matched clinical annotations were analyzed in a family-level screen of mitochondrial ATP synthase subunits. ATP5F1B was prioritized and was evaluated by loss- and gain-of-function assays in AU565 and HCC1428 cells. Differential expression and functional enrichment analyses were performed, and metabolic activity was assessed by extracellular acidification rate. Key genes and proteins were validated by qRT-PCR and Western blotting.ATP5F1B was upregulated in tumor tissues and emerged as the only screened F1 subunit consistently associated with survival. High ATP5F1B expression was linked to poorer overall survival, disease-specific survival, and progression-free interval, and correlated with clinicopathologic features, including age, estrogen receptor status, and PAM50 subtypes, with enrichment in Luminal B and HER2-enriched tumors. ATP5F1B knockdown reduced proliferation and clonogenic growth, whereas ATP5F1B overexpression enhanced cell growth and was accompanied by decreased BAX and increased BCL-2. Transcriptomic analyses identified ATP5F1B-associated gene expression programs with significant GO/KEGG enrichment. Metabolically, ATP5F1B depletion reduced glycolytic activity and downregulated HK2, PKM2, LDHA, CHPT1, LPCAT1, and ERK-related transcriptional expression.ATP5F1B is associated with poor prognosis and promotes breast cancer cell growth, potentially through metabolic regulation.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42380883
The trace element chromium (Cr) has been implicated in the risk of gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM), the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Phospholipid remodeling is known to contribute to insulin regulation and may serve as a potential intermediate link between Cr exposure and GDM risk. Lysophosphatidylcholine acyltransferase 1 (LPCAT1), as an important regulatory factor in phospholipid remodeling, may play a certain role in this process. For the first time, this study investigates the relationship between Cr exposure and GDM risk from the perspective of phospholipid remodeling, while integrating the genetic predisposition and epigenetic regulation of the LPCAT1 gene. A cohort comprising 107 pregnant women diagnosed with GDM and 107 matched controls without GDM was recruited. Blood samples were collected prior to delivery to perform LPCAT1 genotyping, assess DNA methylation patterns, and quantify Cr concentrations. Elevated Cr levels in maternal blood were significantly correlated with an increased risk of GDM. Furthermore, a multiplicative interaction was observed between Cr exposure and four single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) within the LPCAT1 gene. Three Cr-associated DNA methylation CpG sites were identified in GDM patients. Methylation quantitative trait locus (mQTLs) analysis revealed that three SNPs (rs4371798, rs56358072, rs6554859) were significantly associated with methylation at a specific CpG site (cg22185977) within LPCAT1. These findings suggest that genetic polymorphisms in LPCAT1 may modulate individual susceptibility to Cr exposure and consequent GDM risk by influencing the methylation status of the LPCAT1 gene. This study provides novel etiological insights into the role of Cr in inducing GDM through mechanisms involving phospholipid remodeling.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is characterized by molecular heterogeneity, with BRAF-mutated tumors being particularly aggressive and refractory to standard therapies. This study aimed to identify distinctive proteomic signatures associated with the BRAF V600E mutation through comparative tumor tissue profiling. Thirty-three tumor tissues were analyzed: 9 BRAF-mutated, 14 RAS-mutated, and 10 wild-type (WT). Proteomic profiling was performed on formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissues using bottom-up LC-MS/MS in a data-independent acquisition mode. Protein identification and relative expression were achieved by using DIA-NN label-free analysis. Group differences were evaluated through multiparametric analyses, and Cox proportional hazard models were applied to identify proteins associated with overall survival. BRAF-mutated tumors showed distinct proteomic alterations, including overexpression of dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP4) and lysophosphatidylcholine acyltransferase 1 (LPCAT1) alongside the downregulation of quinolinic phosphoribosyltransferase (QPRT) involved in NAD+ biosynthesis. Pathway analysis revealed the enrichment of protein folding associated with endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. Prognostic accuracy improved when tumor genotype was combined with the expression of activator of HSP90 ATPase activity 1 (AHSA1) and thioredoxin domain-containing 5 (TXNDC5), involved in ER-associated protein folding. These findings define a distinctive proteomic signature in BRAF-mutated CRC, characterized by dysregulated protein folding associated with ER stress and supporting the development of targeted therapies and more precise prognostic models.© 2026 American Chemical Society.
Exposure to racial discrimination is a well-documented risk factor for adverse pregnancy outcomes. It is hypothesized that this association occurs through epigenetic changes. Researchers have identified associations between perceived discrimination and methylation of stress-response genes among racially and ethnically minoritized women. However, findings are limited by small sample sizes and inclusion of women who are several years postpartum. Little is known about the influence of discrimination on DNA methylation among Black women in pregnancy. Therefore, we conducted an epigenome-wide association study of 897 Black pregnant women who participated in the Nulliparous Pregnancy Outcomes Study: Monitoring Mothers-to-be (nuMoM2b) study to examine associations between experiences of racial discrimination and DNA methylation. Racial discrimination was measured using responses to the Experiences of Discrimination scale (range 0-9) completed in the second trimester of pregnancy. We dichotomized responses into low discrimination (0-2) and high discrimination (≥ 3) categories. Whole blood was collected in the first trimester of pregnancy and used for DNA extraction. We identified 130 CpG sites significantly associated with high levels of racial discrimination. There were 17 genes mapped to the 20 most significant CpG sites. Fourteen of those genes have disease-associated phenotypes including cancer (LCMT2, LINC02753, RARA, HSP90AA1, SMTN, LPCAT1, SPAG4, DAPK1, ZNF500), cardiomyopathy (SMTN), ovarian insufficiency (DMRT3), neurodevelopmental disability (MLPH, CDC123, OGFOD3), and asthma (STAT6). We identified novel associations between racial discrimination and disease-related genes among Black nulliparous pregnant women. Future research should include structural racism measures and study epigenetic pathways between racism and adverse pregnancy and birth outcomes.© 2026. The Author(s).
Adipose tissue plays a central role in systemic metabolic regulation, and impairments in lipid turnover are a hallmark of obesity associated adipose dysfunction. Lipolytic activation depends on perilipin-1 (PLIN1) phosphorylation, which enables the release of α/β-hydrolase domain-containing-5 (ABHD5), a key co-activator of adipose triglyceride lipase (ATGL). Obesity disrupts this regulatory axis, reducing ABHD5 expression and favoring a lipogenic and monounsaturated fatty acid (MUFA) enriched environment driven in part by increased stearoyl-CoA desaturase-1 (SCD1). These contribute to adipocyte hypertrophy, impaired lipid mobilization, and dysfunctional extracellular matrix. This study investigated whether a brief strength training protocol following fourteen weeks of induction on a high-fat diet containing 35% fat could restore the lipolytic machinery and rebalance lipid metabolism in the mesenteric adipose tissue of obese Swiss mice. Seven days of strength training at 70% of loading capacity increased ABHD5 gene expression (p = 0,0012) and protein content (p = 0,0003), accompanied by elevations in pHSL and pPLIN1 (p = 0,0062 and p = 0,0002), indicating lipolytic activation. Exercise reduced mass and adipocyte size, and demonstrated that obesity increased MUFA abundance (p = 0,0039). Correlation revealed that SCD1 showed a positive association with sedentarism, these gene as central determinant of lipid composition in mesenteric adipose tissue. Additionally, strength training decreases MMP2 and increases MMP9 activity (p = 0,002 and p = 0,0001), a pattern consistent with adaptive structural reorganization rather than fibrotic progression. Collectively, these findings indicate that short-term strength training is a non-pharmacological strategy to counteract mesenteric adipose dysfunction by restoring lipolytic balance and improving lipid metabolic profiles before mass loss and changes in eating behavior occur.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
The lipase LipA from Pseudomonas aeruginosa is an extracellular enzyme that plays an important role in bacterial infections. Prior to its export via the type II secretion system, LipA requires the cognate membrane-anchored foldase LipH for maturation in the periplasm. Though structural studies elucidated the architecture of the LipH:lipase complex, how the full-length, membrane-tethered foldase recognizes, folds, and releases its client has remained barely understood. Here, we combine in silico and in vitro analysis to resolve the conformational dynamics and function of the full-length LipH in a membrane context. Simulations reveal that the membrane-anchored LipH is highly dynamic, sampling a broad ensemble of conformations. The chaperoning cavity is transiently closed or occluded by both the proximal membrane and the linker polypeptide, which is further confirmed by structural analysis. Despite the steric hindrance, the full-length LipH reconstituted into lipid-based nanodiscs and amphipols efficiently activates LipA, though it displays substantially reduced affinity for the client. We propose that the negatively charged membrane promotes the release of the folded client, enabling multiple chaperoning cycles. Hydrogen/deuterium exchange analysis reveals that the MD2 domain of LipH in engaged in stable interactions with LipA, whereas MD1 contacts are transient. Consistently, LipH readily captures N-terminal fragments of LipA, indicating that initial recognition relies on local interactions via the MD2 domain. Together, our results show how membrane coupling and intrinsic conformational plasticity modulate the function of the steric chaperone, and suggest that the membrane-anchored LipH balances capture, folding, and release of LipA to enable its efficient secretion.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
To investigate the genetic architecture of male genital lichen sclerosus (MGLSc) and to identify potential susceptibility loci, candidate genes, and biological pathways associated with disease pathogenesis by integrating genomic structural equation modeling (Genomic-SEM) with multi-omics analyses and experimental validation.Publicly available genome-wide association study (GWAS) summary statistics of MGLSc-related traits were integrated to construct a Genomic-SEM framework. Linkage disequilibrium score regression (LDSC) was used to estimate genetic correlations and evaluate model stability. Functional mapping and annotation were performed using FUMA, and novel loci were further screened through a GWAS subtraction strategy. Fine-mapping was conducted using SuSIE and FINEMAP to prioritize candidate causal variants. Transcriptome-wide association study (TWAS) and FOCUS were applied to identify candidate genes. MAGMA-based gene enrichment, partitioned heritability analysis, and polygenic risk score (PRS) analyses were further performed to characterize the biological relevance of associated loci. Finally, RT-qPCR was conducted in vitro to validate the expression of prioritized genes.The Genomic-SEM showed a good overall fit and generated an indirect GWAS framework comprising 2,451,318 SNPs for MGLSc. A total of 208 SNPs reached conventional genome-wide significance, and FUMA annotation identified 43 risk loci, 52 lead SNPs, and 14 candidate genes. Using the GWAS subtraction strategy, 13 novel SNPs were further identified, including rs715299 and rs10774625. Fine-mapping highlighted four high-confidence variants, namely rs3134608, rs3134952, rs3763307, and rs2076524, mainly clustered in the chromosome 6 major histocompatibility complex region. TWAS identified HLA-DPA1 as the most significant gene, and FOCUS further supported its likely causal role. MAGMA and enrichment analyses suggested that immune-related and regulatory regions contributed substantially to MGLSc heritability. PRS analysis demonstrated marked heterogeneity across chromosomes, with chromosome 6 showing the strongest SNP-level contribution. RT-qPCR confirmed that HLA-DPA1 expression was significantly decreased in MGLSc samples compared with controls (P < 0.0001), consistent with the bioinformatics prediction. In addition, several MAGMA-prioritized genes, including C4B, DDR1, BBS7, VARS1, PRRT1, PPT2, EGFL8, BTNL2, and EME1, were downregulated, whereas AGPAT1 and PBX2 were upregulated in MGLSc samples.This study provides a systematic view of the genetic basis of MGLSc by integrating Genomic-SEM, fine-mapping, transcriptomic prioritization, and experimental validation. Our findings indicate that MGLSc is influenced by a shared polygenic architecture enriched in immune-related loci, particularly within the HLA region. HLA-DPA1 emerged as a high-confidence susceptibility gene, and multiple novel loci and candidate genes were identified, offering new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying MGLSc and potential targets for future mechanistic and translational studies.Copyright © 2026 Chen, Zhang, Fu, Hou, Xu, Li, Lu, Qiu, Wu, Gao, Zhang, Yang, Song and Zhang.
Lactation and mammary involution and remodeling are complex biological processes that require the coordinate expression of thousands of genes. Differential expression analyses comparing lactating and dry goats have revealed extensive changes in the expression of protein-coding and non-coding RNAs in the mammary gland. Here, we hypothesize that lactation and mammary involution/remodeling may also involve changes in the abundance of transcripts differing in exon composition and functional properties. To test this hypothesis, we analyzed the mammary transcriptomes of 5 lactating and 4 dry goats by using a hybrid approach based on the integration of data from short-read Illumina and long-read Nanopore sequencing. After data filtering, we detected 21,598 transcripts derived from 12,300 genes (≈1.7 transcripts per locus) in the goat mammary gland. Among them, we found 14,092 annotated isoforms, 6,291 novel isoforms, and 1,215 novel loci. Around 39.3% of expressed genes generated multiple transcript variants. Overall, the goat mammary transcriptome showed exon skipping as the most frequent splicing event, followed by alternative use of initial exons, intron retention, and variations in 3' and 5' splicing sites. We also observed that a limited number of isoforms accounted for a very substantial fraction of the total expression output of the lactating mammary gland, with the top 10 and top 50 genes representing approximately 66% and 82% of total expression, respectively. This transcriptomic specialization is driven primarily by genes encoding caseins CSN1S1, CSN2, and CSN3, and major whey proteins such as progestagen associated endometrial protein (PAEP), α-lactalbumin (LALBA), and lactophorin (GLYCAM1), which are essential milk nutrients. Finally, differential transcript usage (DTU) analysis comparing lactating and dry goats revealed 443 isoform switches affecting 355 unique genes and 563 transcripts. Besides, 266 and 297 transcripts were upregulated and downregulated in lactating goats, respectively, and 413 DTU, affecting 248 genes, were predicted to have functional consequences. Among these functional consequences, the most important ones were protein domain gain, non-reference domain isoform gain, nonsense-mediated insensitivity and coding transcripts. Several of the genes showing DTU have important roles in lactation, being of particular relevance those encoding epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase, mitochondrial (GPAM), hydroxysteroid 11-β dehydrogenase 1 (HSD11B1), insulin receptor substrate 1 (IRS1), nuclear receptor subfamily 3 group C member 1 (NR3C1), and phosphoinositide-3-kinase regulatory subunit 1 (PIK3R1). Moreover, we also detected DTU for several genes integrated in the mitogen-activated protein kinase and Rho GTPase pathways. In summary, we provide a comprehensive catalog of RNA isoforms expressed in the goat mammary gland and demonstrate that mammary transcript splicing patterns differ substantially between lactating and dry goats.The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. on behalf of the American Dairy Science Association®. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
The Kazakh mare, an indigenous breed of Xinjiang, exhibits strong adaptability to arid and cold conditions while maintaining relatively stable milk production under low-input extensive farming systems. However, its genetic improvement has been constrained by traditional management practices.In this study, we monitored milk yield and milk composition over a 105-day lactation period and recorded 15 phenotypic traits. Milk yield was significantly correlated with body length, teat diameter, and teat length. The high-yield (HY) versus low-yield (LY) and high-fat (HF) versus low-fat (LF) comparisons identified 286 and 627 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), respectively. Several candidate genes were identified, including PMP22, FAM83A, HSD17B3, AGPAT4, SLC50A1, and ERBB3, which were associated with pathways including PI3K-Akt signaling, MAPK signaling, and triglyceride metabolism. High-yield mares showed metabolic differences characterized by enrichment of pathways related to the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, suggesting altered energy and intermediary metabolism involving carbohydrates, lipids, and amino acids. Metabolites associated with these differences included glycerone, α-D-glucose, D-galactose, glycerol, L-histidine, and anserine. In addition, machine learning analysis identified GLDC as a candidate gene potentially associated with milk fat percentage, possibly through its association with histidine. However, this relationship requires further validation.Using peripheral blood samples, this study integrated differential expression analysis, mixed linear models, and machine learning approaches to identify candidate genes and metabolites associated with lactation performance in Kazakh mares. The results provide preliminary insights into molecular and metabolic features associated with lactation traits in this breed. These findings may serve as a reference for future molecular breeding and nutritional studies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Chronic liver disease is a rapidly growing cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide, and this increase is largely driven by steatotic liver disease (SLD) comprising metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD), alcohol-related liver disease (ALD), and MASLD and increased alcohol intake (MetALD). Hepatic steatosis and fibrosis are highly heritable and genetic variation has also associated with risk of hepatocellular carcinoma and hepatic decompensation. This review summarizes the state of the art of genetics and genomics in SLD, with particular emphasis on potential clinical utility. Variants in/near genes including PNPLA3, TM6SF2, and HSD17B13 have been associated with cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in both MASLD and ALD, while others such as those in GCKR, TRIB1, and GPAM have been consistently associated with greater risk of hepatic steatosis in MASLD with much weaker effects if any on cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. While data on MetALD genetics are limited, we believe that the genetic risk factors for liver steatosis, cirrhosis, and HCC will be similar in MetALD compared to MASLD and ALD based on the largely shared genetic risk factors for MASLD and ALD. Finally, we discuss future directions in SLD genetics, notably genetically-defined disease subtypes, gene-environment interactions and its implications for therapy, and utility of genetics in clinical risk stratification. Genetic studies have provided insight into important disease processes in SLD and may have an upcoming role in clinical care.
Horse meat is a high-quality protein source. A total of 50 two-year-old male horses with similar body weights (300 ± 50 kg) were used: 30 for regional comparison (10 each from Bulgan province region of Mongolia (BPM), Tuv province region of Mongolia (TPM), and Inner Mongolia region of China (IMC)) and an additional 20 from the IMC region for muscle-site analysis. To elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying regional and muscle-site differences in the meat quality of Mongolian horses, with particular emphasis on tenderness, this study analyzed chemical composition, minerals, fatty acids, and transcriptomes. Results showed that Mongolian horses from the Inner Mongolia region of China (IMC) had the highest contents of Se, C17:1, C18:2n6c, C18:3n3, ∑PUFA, PUFA/SFA, ∑n-3PUFA, ∑n-6PUFA (p < 0.05), and Fe (p < 0.01), and the lowest levels of C15:0 (p < 0.01) and C16:0 (p < 0.05). The Mongolian horses from the Tuv province region of Mongolia (TPM) had the highest Ca content (p < 0.05). The Mongolian horses from the Bulgan province region of Mongolia (BPM) had the highest ∑SFA (p < 0.01). The forelimb (FL) had the highest a*45min, b*45min (p < 0.01), Fe, Zn, and C17:1 (p < 0.05), and the lowest shear force and drip loss (p < 0.01). The HD had the highest pH45min and cooking loss (p < 0.01). The hindlimb (HD) increased the L*45min compared with the FL (p < 0.01). Transcriptomic analysis identified 513 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between FL and HD, including SLC16A7, GPAM, FABP3, and TNNC1. KEGG enrichment analysis revealed that these DEGs were significantly enriched in the cGMP-PKG signaling pathway, glycerophospholipid metabolism, and PPAR signaling pathway. In summary, this study demonstrated that among Mongolian horses from three different regions, IMC horses exhibited superior meat quality and flavor characteristics, and the FL of IMC horses showed significantly better meat quality than other anatomical sites. Transcriptomic analysis identified a set of candidate genes related to meat quality and lipid metabolism, including SLC16A7, GPAM, FABP3, and TNNC1, providing a scientific basis for further understanding of muscle-specific molecular mechanisms in Mongolian horses. Furthermore, the observed differences in physicochemical and nutritional properties across regions and muscle sites established a systematic foundation for quality grading, targeted nutritional utilization, and processing optimization of Mongolian horse meat.
Lipid metabolic disorders and mitochondrial dysfunction are key and core pathological processes that contribute to the progression of alcoholic liver disease (ALD). However, the effects of lipid metabolism disorders on mitochondrial dysfunction in patients with ALD remain unknown. Here, we demonstrated that glycerol-3-phosphateacyltransferase (GPAM) expression was down-regulated in patients with ALD and associated with ALD progression. Dysregulation of GPAM, a triglyceride synthetase, reshaped lipid metabolism by increasing the levels of toxic lipids such as ceramide and lysophosphatidylcholine and reducing the levels of mitochondrial structural lipids such as cardiolipin. These changes resulted in abnormal mitochondrial dynamics, impaired mitophagy, and dysfunctional mitochondrial respiration, which induced activation of the cGAS-STING pathway. This activation resulted in the accumulation of inflammatory infiltrates, triggering the ALD process in mice. However, the reexpression of GPAM in vivo and in vitro and in hepatic organoids alleviated the development of ALD. This study aimed to determine whether GPAM is a potential therapeutic agent and assess the close relationship between lipid metabolism disorders and mitochondrial dysfunction in patients with ALD.
Adipose tissue is not only the primary site of energy storage but also an essential metabolic organ for maintaining energy homeostasis to regulate adipogenesis, metabolism, and chronic inflammation in mammals. However, the cross-species conservation and divergence of its cellular composition and transcriptional features remain unclear. To address this, we analyzed single-cell RNA sequencing datasets from cattle, pigs, and humans. Conserved cell types, including adipocytes, adipose stem and progenitor cells (ASPCs), macrophages, endothelial cells, and T cells, were identified across all three species. In contrast, pigs uniquely contained mesenchymal cells (COL1A1, COL1A2) and B cells (CD37), cattle possessed distinct preadipocyte populations (COL3A1, PNPLA2, GPAM), and humans exhibited abundant dendritic (HLA-DRA, HLA-DRB1) and mast cells (KIT). Focusing on adipocytes, we identified 537, 160, and 73 species-specific DEGs in cattle, pigs, and humans, respectively. Gene Ontology enrichment analysis of adipocyte-specific DEGs revealed that genes enriched in cattle were primarily involved in cytoskeletal organization and triglyceride biosynthesis (LPIN1, DGAT2), those enriched in pigs in oxidative phosphorylation and thermogenesis (LIPE, CIDEA), and those enriched in humans in lipid transport and immune signaling (ADIPOQ, LPL). Overall, this study establishes a cross-species single-cell atlas of subcutaneous adipose tissue, providing insights into conserved architectures and species-specific adaptations, and serving as a valuable resource for comparative biology and livestock research.© 2026 Stichting International Foundation for Animal Genetics.
Gymnema sylvestre (Retz.) R.Br. ex Sm. is a traditional herb widely used in Indian and Chinese ethnomedicine for diabetes and obesity management. Although its hypoglycemic and hypolipidemic effects have been extensively reported, a system-level understanding of how G. sylvestre modulates glucose-lipid metabolism has not been fully elucidated.The study aimed to explore metabolic alterations associated with G. sylvestre intervention in type 2 diabetes mellitus using an integrated multi-omics strategy.A type 2 diabetic mouse model was induced using a high-fat diet plus streptozotocin. Mice received graded doses of G. sylvestre extract for six weeks. Metabolic parameters, oxidative stress indices, and liver histopathology were assessed. Proteomic and metabolomic profiling coupled with integrative bioinformatics identified pathway-level metabolic alterations related to G. sylvestre treatment, with selected targets further examined by Western blot analysis.G. sylvestre treatment significantly improved glycemic control and lipid profiles, as shown by decreased fasting blood glucose, total cholesterol, triglycerides, and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, along with enhanced insulin sensitivity and hepatic glycogen storage. Integrated multi-omics analysis revealed coordinated alterations in 160 proteins and 43 metabolites, predominantly associated with glucose-lipid metabolism, including energy homeostasis and lipid metabolic regulation-associated pathways. Five proteins associated with lipid and energy metabolism were identified, including fatty acid synthase (FAS), carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1A (CPT1A), acetyl-CoA carboxylase alpha (ACACA), fatty acid-binding protein 5 (FABP5), and 1-acylglycerol-3-phosphate O-acyltransferase 3 (AGPAT3), together with metabolites involved in linoleic acid and glycerophospholipid metabolism, were identified as representative molecular features associated with G. sylvestre treatment.This study provides integrative multi-omics evidence of coordinated glucose-lipid metabolic remodeling associated with G. sylvestre treatment in type 2 diabetes mellitus. By combining ethnopharmacological context with integrated multi-omics analyses, the results offer scientific support for the traditional application of G. sylvestre in metabolic disorder management.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) for kidney function have mainly focused on creatinine-based glomerular filtration rate (eGFRcrea), which is affected by variation in muscle mass. Moreover, the genetic basis of the sexual dimorphism of chronic kidney disease is underexplored.We performed a GWAS meta-analysis for creatinine clearance (CrCl), a muscle mass-independent measure of kidney function, in 58,976 individuals of European ancestry from the Lifelines Cohort Study, including sex-specific analyses.We identified 16 independent loci with 21 genome-wide significant lead single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with CrCl, two of which had not been reported previously in kidney function GWASs: rs146465192, located near the RP1-249F5.3 gene (effect allele frequency (EAF) 0.01, P = 3.38 × 10-9) and rs117014836, located near the AGPAT4 gene (EAF 0.02, P = 5.42 × 10-9). Both loci were also significantly associated with eGFRcrea in Lifelines, but not in previously published eGFR GWASs. In silico annotations revealed that rs146465192 was associated with plasma levels of IGF2R protein, whereas rs117014836 was associated with blood expression of AGPAT4 transcript. Furthermore, we identified two significant female-specific CrCl loci: rs8002366 (GPC6 locus) and rs12908437 (IGF1R locus), associated with GPC6 expression in kidney and IGF1R expression in blood, respectively.Our first large-scale GWAS of CrCl revealed two new genetic variants among both sexes and two female-specific variants influencing kidney function and highlighting the value of CrCl as a muscle mass-independent phenotype.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Fatty acid (FA) composition is critical for meat quality and flavor. The regulatory role of copy number variations (CNVs) in bovine FA traits remains underexplored. Here, we integrated CNV-based genome-wide association studies (GWASs) with expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL) analysis to clarify the function of CNVs in bovine FA metabolic regulation. Using Bovine HD SNP array and RNA-seq data, we identified 21 CNVs significantly associated with 21 FA traits. Notably, a 278.6-kb duplicated CNV region (CNVR) on BTA13 was linked to the increase in docosanoic acid (C22:0) levels, and this region harbors ECHDC3, a gene highly expressed in the muscle, liver, and adipose tissues. Integration of SNP-GWAS and tissue-specific CNV-based eQTL data further confirmed ECHDC3 and AGPAT3 as key regulators of FA metabolism. Finally, cellular knockdown experiments further validated their synergistic interaction and suggested a compensatory regulatory mechanism. Our findings provide insights into CNV-mediated genetic regulation of meat quality traits in livestock.© 2026 The Author(s).
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a globally prevalent chronic liver disease, and its progression is closely associated with Kupffer cells (KCs). This study aims to characterize C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 9꞉secreted phosphoprotein 1 (CS) polarization in KCs and investigate its intercellular communication with endothelial cells (ECs) in NAFLD.Single-cell RNA sequencing data of liver tissues from 3 NAFLD mice and 3 control mice were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) dataset GSE129516. Seurat was used for data integration, quality control, clustering, and annotation. KCs and ECs were divided into subgroups, followed by Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses. A mouse liver single-cell dataset (GSE270583) was further included for cross-validation of CS polarization. CellChat was used to infer intercellular communication networks between KC and EC subgroups. Twenty male C57BL/6J mice were assigned to a control group (n=10) and a high-fat diet (HFD) group (n=10). Body weight was measured weekly. At 20 weeks of feeding, glucose tolerance and insulin tolerance were assessed, after which the mice were sacrificed, and serum and liver tissues were collected for subsequent experiments. Hematoxylin and eosin (HE) staining and Oil Red O staining were used to observe pathological changes in the liver. Immunofluorescence staining of liver tissues was performed to validate the characteristics of CS polarization and M1/M2 polarization.A total of 29 cell clusters belonging to 8 cell types were identified. Compared with the control group, the proportion of KCs was increased and the proportion of ECs was decreased in the NAFLD group. Under M1/M2 and CS polarization frameworks, subgroups including CD80+ KCs, CD206+ KCs, S100A4+ KCs, secreted phosphoprotein 1 (SPP1)+ KCs, and C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 9 (CXCL9)+ KCs were identified. Among these, CD80+ KCs and SPP1+ KCs were significantly expanded, and their characteristic genes were mainly enriched in nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) signaling pathways. Peroxiredoxin 3 (PRDX3) was upregulated in CD80+ KCs and downregulated in CD206+ KCs. ECs were divided into 3 subgroups: Apoa2+ ECs, PRDX3+ ECs, and Col4a1+ ECs. In the NAFLD group, the PRDX3+ EC subgroup was abnormally active, accompanied by high expression of PRDX1 and downregulation of glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4). Further external validation using the single-cell dataset GSE270583 showed that SPP1+ KCs and CXCL9+ KCs could be clearly separated, and the proportion of SPP1+ KCs was increased in the NAFLD group, supporting the cross-cohort reproducibility of CS polarization in NAFLD. CellChat analysis suggested activation of the TNF receptor superfamily member 1A (TNFRSF1A) signaling pathway from CD80+ KCs and SPP1+ KCs to PRDX3+ ECs. After 20-week HFD feeding, mice displayed significant weight gain, impaired glucose tolerance, and reduced insulin sensitivity compared with controls (all P<0.05). The levels of alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate transferase (AST), total cholesterol (TC), and triglyceride (TG) were significantly higher in the HFD group than in the control group (all P<0.05). HE staining and Oil Red O staining showed marked disordered hepatic architecture, lipid vacuoles, and lipid deposition in the livers of HFD mice. Immunofluorescence staining showed increased expression of PRDX3 and CD80 in liver tissues of the HFD group. Compared with the control group, SPP1 expression was increased, whereas CXCL9 expression was decreased, in hepatic KCs of the HFD group. These results were consistent with the single-cell transcriptome sequencing findings.KCs in NAFLD exhibit characteristics of CS polarization, with increased proportions of SPP1+ KCs and CD80+ KCs, as well as enhanced TNF-TNFRSF1A communication with PRDX3+ ECs. Changes in the expression of SPP1, CXCL9, CD80, and PRDX3 in the liver tissues of HFD mice were generally consistent with the single-cell analysis results. CS polarization may participate in alterations of the hepatic inflammatory microenvironment in NAFLD and may provide a new research direction for understanding the inflammation-fibrosis progression of NAFLD.
Exposure to fine particulate matter (PM2.5) is linked to metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD), yet responsible chemical constituents and the biological basis of susceptibility remain unclear, limiting source-targeted regulation and precision prevention in vulnerable populations. We examined PM2.5 components - liver outcomes associations in youth, assessed susceptibility by PNPLA3 genotype (the strongest known MASLD genetic determinant), and evaluated genotype-specific metabolic mediation in two independent cohorts.Baseline data from 113 Los Angeles Latino adolescents with obesity (discovery cohort) were analyzed, including magnetic resonance imaging-measured hepatic fat fraction (HFF), liver stiffness (LS), and serum metabolomics and lipidomics. Visit-year average exposures to 15 PM2.5 components were estimated from residential addresses. Linear regression and g-computation assessed individual component and mixture effects, with PNPLA3 genotype as modifier. Moderated mediation analyses identified metabolic mediators, followed by pathway enrichment and total mediation effect estimation. Findings were replicated in 81 young adults of mixed race/ethnicity and body mass index (replication cohort) using level 1 metabolites confirmed by authentic standards.PM2.5 components and mixture were predominantly positively associated with HFF and LS; simultaneous interquartile range increases in all components were associated with 10.0% higher HFF. Elemental carbon (EC), bromine (Br), copper, potassium, and lead were key contributors. Stronger effects were observed in PNPLA3 GG carriers. GG carriers exhibited more mediating metabolite features (n = 550 vs. 196), with broader pathway enrichment in carbohydrate, lipid, and amino acid metabolism, and signaling/endocrine pathways. Significant total mediation effects were observed exclusively in GG carriers. Replication confirmed GG-specific associations of EC, Br with HFF, and identified increased fatty acid 16:1, and decreased guanidinosuccinate, proline as candidate mediators.PM2.5 components potentially indicative of combustion and traffic sources (i.e. EC, Br) increase MASLD risk in youth via metabolic pathways, with genotype-specific responses likely heightening susceptibility in PNPLA3 GG carriers.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
This study explored the mechanism by which Tougu Xiaotong Capsules(TGXTC) improve osteoarthritis(OA) degeneration, focusing on the regulation of cholesterol metabolism in OA chondrocytes via microRNA-16-5p(miR-16-5p). In vivo experiments were performed. A total of fifty 8-week-old C57BL/6 mice were acclimated for one week and then randomly divided into a blank group(10 mice) and a modeling group(40 mice). The OA model was established in the modeling group using the modified Hulth method. These mice were then randomly subdivided into four groups(n=10 per group): model, TGXTC, miR-16-5p antagomir, and TGXTC+miR-16-5p antagomir. Mice in the antagomir groups received intra-articular injections of miR-16-5p antagomir. After four weeks of intervention, cartilage structure was observed using Masson's trichrome, hematoxylin-eosin(HE), safranin O-fast green, and toluidine blue staining. The mRNA levels of miR-16-5p and cholesterol metabolism-related factors-ATP-binding cassette transporter A1(ABCA1), apolipoprotein A1(ApoA1), liver X receptor beta(LXRβ), sterol regulatory element-binding protein(SREBP), cholesterol-25-hydroxylase(CH25H), 25-hydroxycholesterol-7-alpha-hydroxylase(CYP7B1), and endoplasmic reticulum stress-associated factors C/EBP homologous protein(CHOP) and caspase-3, were detected by quantitative real-time PCR(RT-qPCR). The protein expression levels of ABCA1, ApoA1, LXRβ, SREBP, CH25H, CYP7B1, CHOP, and caspase-3 were analyzed by Western blot. In vitro experiments were also conducted. A chondrocyte degeneration model was established by stimulating mouse chondrocytes with thapsigargin(TG). RT-PCR was used to examine the levels of ABCA1, ApoA1, LXRβ, SREBP, CH25H, CYP7B1, CHOP and caspase-3 under miR-16-5p inhibition conditions. Flow cytometry was employed to assess the effect of TGXTC on the apoptosis rate of TG-induced chondrocytes following miR-16-5p inhibition. Histological staining results showed that, compared to the model group, the TGXTC group exhibited relatively clear and intact cartilage layer structure. Furthermore, compared to the miR-16-5p antagomir group, the TGXTC+miR-16-5p antagomir group showed improved cartilage surface damage. RT-PCR results indicated that, compared to the model group, the TGXTC group had significantly increased mRNA levels of miR-16-5p and ABCA1, ApoA1, and LXRβ, while the mRNA levels of SREBP, CH25H, CYP7B1, CHOP, and caspase-3 decreased. Western blot results showed that, compared to the model group, the TGXTC group showed upregulated protein expression of ABCA1, ApoA1, and LXRβ, and downregulated protein expression of SREBP, CH25H, CYP7B1, CHOP, and caspase-3. The RT-qPCR results for the in vitro experiments showed that in miR-16-5p-inhibited chondrocytes, TGXTC intervention increased the mRNA levels of ABCA1, ApoA1, and LXRβ, and decreased those of SREBP, CH25H, CYP7B1, CHOP, and caspase-3. Flow cytometry results confirmed that TGXTC mitigated the apoptosis of TG-induced chondrocytes. In conclusion, TGXTC can alleviate cholesterol metabolism disorders in osteoarthritic chondrocytes by regulating miR-16-5p.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42529254 is a review article
Oocyte quality is a key determinant of reproductive success, yet its assessment in assisted reproduction largely relies on subjective morphological criteria. Artificial intelligence (AI)-based image analysis has introduced greater objectivity into oocyte evaluation; however, the biological features captured by AI-derived morphological scores remain incompletely defined. In this study, we integrated AI-based oocyte morphology with molecular profiling of follicular fluid (FF) to identify biological correlates of oocyte competence. Reproductive outcomes were analysed in 49 young oocyte donors (20-33 years), while FF samples pooled per woman from a subset of 25 donors were analysed for metabolic (glucose, total cholesterol, triglycerides, HDL, LDL, APOA1), extracellular matrix-related (HSPG2/Perlecan), signaling-related (Gremlin-1), and fertility-related (AMH, LH, FSH) biomarkers. AI-derived oocyte quality scores were positively associated with specific intrafollicular markers, including glucose, total cholesterol, HDL, AMH, and HSPG2, while no associations were observed with triglycerides, LDL, Gremlin-1, LH, or FSH. APOA1 showed a positive trend with the AI score. These findings provide a biological context for AI-based oocyte morphological assessment by linking digital image-derived scores with metabolic and structural features of the follicular microenvironment. The integration of AI-driven morphology with donor follicular fluid biomarker profiling may contribute to the development of more objective and biologically informed approaches for oocyte quality evaluation in assisted reproduction.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for Reproduction and Fertility. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42522599 is a review article
Major depressive disorder (MDD) is characterized by interacting neuro-immune, metabolic, and oxidative stress pathways. Here, we examine the interactions between the acute phase (AP) response and serum lipids in Chinese MDD patients.This case-control study assessed serum lipids and the AP response in 125 MDD patients and 40 healthy controls (HC), while controlling for metabolic confounders, including metabolic syndrome.We found an impaired lipid profile in MDD, characterized by reduced levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL), apolipoprotein (Apo) A1, chloromethyl phenylacetate (CMPA)ase activity, a reverse cholesterol transport (RCT) index, and increased ApoB/ApoA1 index. MDD was characterized by an AP response as conceptualized by lower serum albumin and transferrin and increased monomeric C-reactive protein (mCRP). The AP response was significantly and inversely associated with total cholesterol, HDL, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, ApoA1, ApoB, lecithin cholesterol acyltransferase, CMPAase activity, and RCT index. After adjusting for the AP response, MDD diagnosis maintained significant independent associations with lower HDL-C, ApoA1, RCT, and higher ApoB/ApoA1 ratio. Multivariate (logistic) regression analyses confirmed that these lipid-inflammatory alterations strongly predict MDD diagnosis and clinical symptom severity. We found that around 81.5% of the MDD patients showed metabolic-inflammatory aberrations with a specificity of 82.1% and an area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve of 0.873. Lower ApoA1 emerged as a particularly robust protective biomarker, showing significant inverse relationships with affective and chronic fatigue severity scores.These findings illuminate the complex interplay between a smoldering inflammatory response and lipid metabolism in many patients with MDD.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
In this study, an exploratory transcriptomic investigation was conducted to evaluate the feasibility of using feather transcriptomics to detect sex differences and gene responses to physiological changes in chickens. Feathers represent a promising non-invasive biological source of RNA, as the feather pulp of growing feathers contains living cells capable of active transcription. Growing feathers were collected from 150-day-old male and female chickens (Bionda Piemontese, a slow-growing breed) raised under a free-range system and fed two finisher diets differing in lipid content: low-lipid (LL, ether extract 3.6%) and high-lipid (HL, ether extract 9.3%) diets. RNA was extracted from feather pulp, and 12 pools were subjected to whole RNA-Seq analysis. The study was designed as 2 × 2 factorial experiments investigating the effects of diet and sex on gene expression. A total of 17,360 transcripts were detected and used for downstream analyses. Differential gene expression and functional enrichment analyses were performed. The main effects of diet and sex were estimated with an additive design using the DEseq2 package, while for the sex-specific diet analyses, subgroup comparisons were conducted on the RaNA-Seq platform. The analysis of the main effect of diet reveals that three genes associated with ether lipid metabolism (PLA2G10, PLA2G4F, and ENPP6) were upregulated in chickens fed the HL diet. In roosters, HL feeding significantly altered the expression of APOA1 and SLC27A4, suggesting an effect on lipid transport and metabolic regulation within the PPAR signaling pathway. In contrast, hens showed differential expression primarily in pathways related to apelin signaling, extracellular matrix remodeling, and cardiovascular function, rather than classical lipid metabolism pathways; additionally, gene set enrichment analysis indicated a limited enrichment of linoleic acid metabolism, suggesting secondary involvement of lipid metabolic processes. These findings are consistent with those in the literature reporting sex-related differences between males and females. The results further suggest that transcriptomic responses to dietary lipid supplementation can be investigated through the expression of selected candidate genes in feather pulp. Among the genes identified, PLA2G10, PLA2G4F, ENPP6, APOA1, and SLC27A4 emerged as potential molecular markers associated with dietary treatment, and the importance of sex-dependent transcriptional responses was highlighted. In conclusion, this study demonstrates the potential of feather pulp as a viable source of RNA for transcriptomic analyses in live chickens, providing a minimally invasive alternative to conventional tissue sampling. These preliminary results also support the hypothesis that feathers represent a practical and ethically favorable tissue for future nutrigenomic and genetic improvement studies, ultimately supporting more sustainable poultry production.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42514439 is a review article
Background/Objectives: We aimed to conduct a comprehensive assessment of how transient iatrogenic hypothyroidism, induced for diagnostic purposes during the follow up of patients with differentiated thyroid cancer, impacts both quantitative and qualitative lipid parameters. Methods: Blood samples were collected during continuous levothyroxine (LT4) supplementation and after four weeks of LT4 withdrawal. In addition to thyroid hormone levels and routine lipid parameters, LDL and HDL subfractions were analyzed using polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (Lipoprint). Furthermore, the activities of HDL-associated human paraoxonase-1 (PON1) paraoxonase and arylesterase were measured spectrophotometrically, while the levels of myeloperoxidase and apolipoprotein M (ApoM) were determined using ELISA. The activity of key regulators in HDL remodeling was measured using activity assay kits. Results: In this prospective, single-center study, a total of 52 patients were enrolled (mean age 48 ± 15 years; 13 males and 39 females). Compared to values measured during continuous LT4 supplementation, total cholesterol, HDL-C, LDL-C, ApoA1, and ApoB100 levels were significantly elevated during iatrogenic hypothyroidism (p < 0.0001 for all parameters). Differences in lipoprotein subfraction patterns were also observed: in hypothyroidism, the mean LDL particle size decreased (p = 0.0007) and the proportion of HDL subfractions shifted to the larger HDL subfractions (p < 0.0001). The paraoxonase activity and ApoM level tended to be increased (p = 0.030 and p = 0.011, respectively). Conclusions: In short-term overt hypothyroidism, opposing changes were observed: the shift toward smaller, denser LDL subfractions is considered atherogenic, whereas the increased proportion of larger HDL subfractions, the trend for higher paraoxonase activity and apoM levels can be potentially anti-atherogenic. Our findings further characterize the functional alterations of lipoproteins in hypothyroidism.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42567903
Atrial fibrillation (AF), a common arrhythmia, is associated with impaired quality of life and increased stroke risk and mortality. Clinical guidelines recommend leveraging digital technologies to support patient education and AF self-management. Conversational artificial intelligence (AI) technologies may support patient engagement with self-management by enabling human-like conversations. This study aims to evaluate the effectiveness of a conversational AI intervention (Conversational artificial intelligence HeAlth supporT in Atrial Fibrillation Self-Management (CHAT-AF-S)) in improving quality of life in patients with AF.CHAT-AF-S is a 3-month randomised controlled trial with 1:1 allocation and embedded process evaluation. We will randomise 480 adults (aged 18 years and older) with documented AF to the CHAT-AF-S intervention or usual care. Primary outcome is the Atrial Fibrillation Effect on QualiTy-of-life overall score. We will follow the intention-to-treat principles and data analysts will be blinded. Intervention participants will be invited to complete a user experience survey and take part in an interview to explore the feasibility, acceptability, perceived use and barriers and enablers to implementing the intervention. Qualitative data will be analysed thematically.Ethics approval was obtained from the Western Sydney Local Health District Human Ethics Research Committee (2023/ETH00765). Written and informed consent will be obtained from all study participants before commencing any study procedures. Results will be disseminated via peer-reviewed publications and presentations at international conferences.Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry (registration number: ACTRN12623000850673).© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY. Published by BMJ Group.
This study evaluated the nutritional adequacy of dog diets formulated by four widely used Artificial Intelligence models (Manus, ChatGPT, DeepSeek, and Gemini) against the recommendations of the European Pet Food Industry Federation. This was a theoretical, in silico study, no animals were fed or clinically evaluated. Using a standardized prompt, complete and balanced diets (beef and chicken) for an 8 kg adult dog were requested. Eleven formulations were analyzed using SuperCracPet® software based on United States Department of Agriculture data. Overall, 61.3% of nutrients were below the minimum recommended levels. Nutrient levels below FEDIAF minimum requirements were identified across multiple categories: energy supply was insufficient in 81% of diets, calcium levels were below recommendations in 91% of formulations, calcium-to-phosphorus ratios were outside the recommended range in 63% of diets, chlorine was absent in all formulations, vitamin D levels were below requirements in 63.7% of diets, choline in 81.8%, and linoleic acid in 72%. Only 18% of the formulations included supplementation, which was provided in insufficient quantity. If implemented chronically, these nutritional inadequacies may pose risks to bone, dermatological, immune, and metabolic health. It is concluded that, in their current form, the evaluated language models are insufficient for the autonomous formulation of canine diets, as the generated prescriptions presented multiple nutritional inadequacies. Safe application requires hybrid systems with mandatory supervision by animal scientists and veterinarians, as well as regulation to prevent avoidable risks to animal health.© 2026 The Authors.
The dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus and perifornical area (DMH/PeF), historically identified as the hypothalamic defence area, plays a key role in orchestrating autonomic and respiratory adjustments during threat-related states. To investigate how activation of this region affects upper-airway and respiratory motor circuits, we examined its anatomical and functional interactions with laryngeal-related medullary nuclei using combined immunohistochemical mapping and physiological recordings in spontaneously breathing anaesthetised rats. Neuronal activation was assessed using c-Fos immunohistochemistry (c-Fos-ir) combined with ChAT and FoxP2 labelling to identify motoneurons and non-motoneuronal populations across the compact, semicompact and loose formations of the nucleus ambiguus (nA), as well as within the nucleus retroambiguus (nRA), during DMH/PeF electrical stimulation. Hypothalamic activation produced a clear subdivision-specific recruitment in the nA, with significant ipsilateral increases in c-Fos-ir within the semicompact (motoneurons, p < 0.001; non-motoneurons, p < 0.05) and compact formations (non-motoneurons, p < 0.05). The nRA also exhibited robust ipsilateral activation (non-motoneurons, p < 0.001). FoxP2-positive neurons remained stable across groups, indicating that FoxP2 reflects neuronal phenotype rather than acute activation. A second set of experiments evaluated the functional impact of electrical and chemical (glutamate) DMH/PeF activation on subglottic pressure, an index of laryngeal resistance. Both stimulation modalities produced a marked reduction in subglottic pressure (p < 0.001 and p < 0.01), accompanied by a reproducible autonomic-respiratory pattern characterised by tachypnoea, tachycardia and a pressor response. Overall, our results provide new insight into how hypothalamic circuits regulate subglottic pressure and laryngeal activity, suggesting that DMH/PeF activation is associated with the recruitment of specific nA and nRA domains, which may contribute to the adjustment of upper-airway patency during defensive responses.Copyright © 2026 Carrillo-Franco, González-García, Morales-Luque, Rivera, Gago, Ponce-Velasco, Dawid-Milner and López-González.
Healthcare providers contended with unique work challenges during the height of the COVID-19 pandemic by adapting to rapidly changing circumstances with limited knowledge and resources. One military treatment facility responded to these challenges by leveraging available technology to implement Operation Oasis, a communally developed and peer-led virtual resiliency program for healthcare providers. This paper aims to: (1) discuss the design and implementation of Operation Oasis, and (2) conduct a thematic analysis of 404 participant chat messages that participants voluntarily and anonymously provided across 2 years of a weekly Operation Oasis music-based offering, Human Jukebox. Key findings of the thematic analysis included that the "Music Appreciation" theme was in 43% of coded messages, making it the most common theme; "Positivity," "Gratitude," "Reminiscence/Nostalgia/Relating to Music," and "Social Connectedness" comprised the remaining top five themes. Participants' comments suggested they had experiences of positive emotions, personal reflection, and interpersonal connection, all of which are recognized as contributors to resilience and well-being. This paper offers workshop facilitators' reflections and lessons learned on the process of creating and implementing Operation Oasis, as well as a discussion of the potential need and impact of supporting similar programs in the future.Copyright © 2026 McLaughlan, Vaudreuil, Freeman, Jacobson Blumenfeld, Van Fossen and Walter.
Aberrations in neuro-immune, metabolic, and oxidative stress (NIMETOX) pathways are implicated in major depressive disorder (MDD). First-episode simple dysmood disorder (FE-SDMD) without metabolic syndrome offers a unique model to investigate early lipid alterations using a systems biology approach.Plasma samples were collected from 88 university students (44 FE-SDMD, 44 healthy controls). Participants underwent psychiatric assessments, including adverse childhood experiences (ACEs), negative life events (NLEs), depression, anxiety, suicidal behaviors, and insomnia. Untargeted lipid profiling was performed using LC-QTOF-MS, while indices of oxidative and nitrosative stress (ONS) and lecithin-cholesterol acyltransferase (LCAT) activity were assessed. Data was analyzed using machine learning approaches with recursive feature elimination and cross-validation.FE-SDMD was characterized by increased ceramides (CER), diacylglycerides (DAG), triacylglycerides (TG), sphingomyelins (SM), bis-monoacylglycerol phosphates (BMP), cholestone, and fatty-acyl amino acids (FAAA). DAG, CER, and BMP were the strongest predictors of depression severity and physiosomatic symptoms, whereas cholestone, CER, and SM predicted suicidal behaviors. These lipid modules, together with lowered LCAT and increased ONS, explained substantial variance in depression severity (46.4%), physiosomatic symptoms (42.4%), cognitive-affective symptoms (37.9%), suicidal behaviors (30.1%), insomnia (32%), and anxiety (19.5%). ACEs and NLEs were strongly associated with CER (p < 0.001), DAG (p < 0.01), and cholestone (p < 0.01), revealing coordinated lipidomic networks within a systems biology framework.Early-stage MDD is characterized by lipid dysregulations, which are linked to psychosocial stress exposure, oxidative stress and attenuated reverse cholesterol transport. These lipid modules identify biologically functional pathways associated with early disease and may inform the development of future therapeutic strategies.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
As large-language-model-enhanced chatbots become increasingly expressive and socially responsive, many users begin forming companionship-like bonds with them. This study investigates how using AI companions relates to psychological well-being. We collected self-reported data from 1,131 US adults who use Character.AI, including survey responses and 4,664 chat sessions (464,687 messages) from 237 participants. By triangulating self-reported usage, relationship descriptions and real chat histories, we identify patterns of engagement and associated outcomes. Smaller social networks were associated with reporting companionship as the primary chatbot use (β = -0.03; 95% confidence interval (CI), (-0.05, -0.01)), which in turn was associated with lower well-being (β = -0.48; 95% CI, (-0.70, -0.25)). For self-reported companionship usage, this association was stronger when interactions were intensive (β = -0.31; 95% CI, (-0.56, -0.06)) and highly disclosive (β = -0.38; 95% CI, (-0.63, -0.14)). These results suggest that the association between AI companionship and well-being is not uniform and depends on users' offline social environments and how chatbots are used.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis is a chronic inflammatory disease of the central nervous system and the leading cause of disability in young adults. In Germany, 90% of relapses are treated with high-dose intravenous glucocorticoids, despite limited evidence for long-term benefit and international preference for oral administration. Time constraints often hinder informed decision-making. The multicentre Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT) POWER@MS2 (N = 160, 2020-2023), conducted at 18 German MS-centres, aimed to promote self-determined relapse management through a complex intervention (dialogue-based decision aid, nurse-led webinar, online-chat).While RCTs demonstrate effectiveness, process evaluations are essential to understand implementation, mechanisms of impact and contextual factors. This study explored healthcare professionals' experiences and attitudes toward implementing relapse self-management and self-medication in clinical practice.A mixed-methods process evaluation followed the UK Medical Research Council- framework. Quantitative data were collected via validated questionnaires at up to three time points and analysed descriptively. Interview guides were developed based on these results. Qualitative data from neurologist and study nurse interviews were thematically analysed. Results were triangulated using a joint display.Data were collected from 55 neurologists and 17 study nurses (quantitative) and from 7 neurologists and 4 nurses (qualitative) (2020-2024). Most neurologists opposed routine steroid use, reserving it for severe relapses. Some voiced concerns about self-management, but informed patients were generally viewed as capable of safe self-medication. Study nurses gave mixed feedback on the intervention, citing overload and improved guidance.Clinicians showed openness toward implementing the intervention. Enhancing accessibility and addressing specific concerns may support broader adoption.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This study evaluated the impact of guideline-based prompting on the performance of large language models (LLMs) in answering dental trauma-related questions. Sixteen multiple-choice questions (MCQs) and sixteen open-ended questions (OEQs) derived from the International Association of Dental Traumatology (IADT) guidelines were used. ChatGPT-4o, Gemini-2.5 Flash, and DeepSeek v3.2 were tested under two conditions: with and without guideline support. Questions were asked three times daily over three consecutive days using independent chat sessions. In the guideline-based condition, the dental trauma guideline was uploaded and models were instructed to answer according to the document. Responses were evaluated using predefined answer keys and a structured rubric. Statistical analyses were performed using the Shapiro-Wilk test, aligned rank transform (ART) analysis, and Bonferroni-adjusted multiple comparisons. Multiple-choice performance was consistently high across all models, with no significant effects of day, time, or AI model. Guideline-based prompting substantially improved performance and guideline concordance on open-ended questions. In the guideline-supported condition, DeepSeek achieved a median score of 32, while ChatGPT and Gemini achieved median scores of 30. Without guideline support, median scores decreased to 26, 20, and 23, respectively. All models achieved 100% accuracy on MCQs with guideline support, whereas accuracy ranged from 81.2% to 100% without guideline support. Significant differences between AI models were observed for OEQ scores (p < 0.001). Guideline-based prompting improved guideline concordance and overall performance, particularly for open-ended dental trauma questions. These findings support the use of guideline grounding to enhance the guideline concordance and reliability of LLM-generated responses while emphasizing the continued need for clinician oversight.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to The Society of The Nippon Dental University.
Dear Editor, A conversation with ChatGPT (Chat Generative Pre-trained Transformer) about pleural effusion.© Journal of the Association of Physicians of India 2026.
Maternal obesity compromises placental development and fetal growth, yet the mechanisms remain unknown. Here, we investigated the impact of high-fat diet (HFD) on placental energy homeostasis in mice. Female C57BL/6 mice were fed a control diet or an HFD, with a subset receiving FerroTerminator-1 (FOT1) to modulate metabolic dysfunction. At embryonic day 18.5, maternal metabolic status, fetal growth, placental morphology, energy metabolism, and oxidative stress were assessed. HFD-fed dams developed dyslipidemia and insulin resistance, and exhibited placental lipid accumulation and impaired labyrinth zone development, resulting in reduced fetal weight and altered fetal liver lipid and glycogen contents. The placenta showed mitochondrial damage, accompanied by reduced ATP content, mitochondrial membrane potential, mitochondrial DNA copy number, and suppressed respiratory chain complex activities. Placental metabolomic profiling showed that HFD was associated with altered levels of metabolites in glycolysis and oxidative phosphorylation pathways. These alterations coincided with placental iron-associated oxidative stress, evidenced by elevated non-heme iron, lipid peroxidation products, upregulation of transferrin receptor (TFRC) and lysophosphatidylcholine acyltransferase 3 (LPCAT3), downregulation of ferritin heavy chain 1 (FTH1) and solute carrier family 40 member 1 (SLC40A1), a reduced glutathione to oxidized glutathione ratio, and impaired glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) expression and activity. Meanwhile, FOT1 administration attenuated placental oxidative stress, partially restored ATP production and mitochondrial function, and improved fetal growth in HFD-fed mice. Collectively, maternal obesity was associated with placental iron-associated oxidative stress and bioenergetic impairment, which may contribute to reduced placental efficiency and FGR.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for the Study of Reproduction. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
This study integrated network pharmacology, computational simulation, spatial transcriptomics, and animal experiments to systematically reveal the multi-level mechanism of the traditional Chinese medicine compound Zuopi Pills in treating atherosclerosis(AS) by inhibiting ferroptosis via the acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 4(ACSL4)/lysophosphatidylcholine acyltransferase 3(LPCAT3)/arachidonate 15-lipoxygenase(ALOX15) signaling axis. Network pharmacology was used to screen for the intersecting targets between the active components of Zuopi Pills and AS, followed by protein-protein interaction(PPI) construction, Gene Ontology(GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes(KEGG) pathway enrichment analyses. Molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations were conducted on the core components against key ferroptosis-related targets, glutathione peroxidase 4(GPX4), ACSL4, LPCAT3, and ALOX15, to assess binding stability. Spatial transcriptomics was utilized to directly observe, within the tissue spatial dimension, the distribution and expression patterns of key targets in atherosclerotic plaque regions of the aorta, thereby validating their association with pathological sites. An ApoE~(-/-)AS mouse model of AS induced by a high-fat diet was established. Mice were treated with different doses of Zuopi Pills to assess its effects on body weight, aortic pathology(hematoxylin-eosin staining), serum lipid profiles, inflammatory cytokines, and ferroptosis-related indices, as well as protein/mRNA expression in aortic tissue. Network pharmacology analysis identified 175 intersecting targets, with KEGG enrichment highlighting ferroptosis as a key pathway. Molecular docking showed favorable binding between core components and the targets, and molecular dynamics simulations confirmed the stability of these complexes. Spatial transcriptomics analysis visually demonstrated the specific high expression of GPX4, ACSL4, LPCAT3, and ALOX15 within the aortic plaque region, providing in situ evidence to support subsequent mechanistic studies. Animal experiments confirmed that Zuopi Pills significantly reduced body weight, improved serum lipid profiles, alleviated plaque formation, and inhibited inflammation in AS mice. Mechanistically, Zuopi Pills decreased Fe~(2+) and malondialdehyde(MDA) content while increasing superoxide dismutase(SOD) activity and glutathione(GSH) levels in aortic tissue. It downregulated the protein and mRNA expression of prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthase 2(PTGS2), transferrin receptor 1(TFR1), ACSL4, LPCAT3, and ALOX15, while concurrently upregulating GPX4 expression. In conclusion, Zuopi Pills exert a clear therapeutic effect on AS mice, and its mechanism is closely related to the regulation of the ACSL4/LPCAT3/ALOX15 signaling axis and the inhibition of ferroptosis in vascular cells.
Periodontitis is a chronic inflammatory disease characterized by dysregulated host immunity, oxidative injury, connective tissue breakdown, and alveolar bone loss. Rhubarb (Rhei Radix et Rhizoma) has anti-inflammatory and redox-modulating properties, but its therapeutic mechanism in periodontitis remains unclear.This study investigated whether rhubarb extract alleviates periodontal inflammatory injury and explored the role of matrix metalloproteinase 3 (MMP3) in periodontitis and ferroptosis.The rhubarb extract was profiled by UPLC-Q-TOF-MS. Network pharmacology, transcriptomics, and untargeted metabolomics were integrated to identify targets and pathways. LPS-stimulated human gingival fibroblasts (HGFs), MMP3 knockdown and overexpression, molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulation, surface plasmon resonance (SPR), and a rat periodontitis model were used for mechanistic validation.The rhubarb extract contained anthraquinone derivatives. Integrated multiomics identified MMP3 as a rhubarb-responsive hub linked to inflammatory activation and ferroptosis-related metabolic disruption. Rhubarb extract inhibited LPS-induced NF-κB activation and cytokine production, restored the SLC7A11/GPX4 antioxidant defense axis, and suppressed ACSL4/LPCAT3-associated lipid remodeling. These effects were accompanied by reduced ROS generation, Fe²⁺ accumulation, lipid peroxidation, and mitochondrial damage. MMP3 silencing partially mimicked the anti-ferroptotic effects of rhubarb extract, whereas MMP3 overexpression weakened its cytoprotective activity. Molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulation, and SPR analyses supported direct interactions between representative rhubarb constituents and MMP3. In vivo, rhubarb extract reduced periodontal inflammation, collagen degradation, iron deposition, osteoclast formation, and alveolar bone loss.Rhubarb extract attenuates experimental periodontitis by suppressing inflammation, ferroptosis-related lipid peroxidation, and osteoclast-mediated bone resorption, partly through the modulation of an MMP3-associated inflammatory-ferroptotic axis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights reserved.
Ferroptosis, an iron-dependent form of regulated cell death, is crucial for skin homeostasis and pathology. The H3K36-specific dimethyltransferase NSD2 is a key epigenetic regulator involved in a spectrum of physiological processes and contributes to the pathogenesis of various human cancers. However, the epigenetic mechanism governing ferroptosis sensitivity in keratinocytes remains poorly understood. This study revealed the role of NSD2 in regulating ferroptosis in HaCaT keratinocytes. We demonstrated that NSD2 deletion significantly attenuated Erastin-induced redox imbalance and reduced the sensitivity of HaCaT cells to Erastin-induced ferroptosis. RNA-seq analysis revealed that NSD2 deficiency downregulated key ferroptosis-promoting genes, including NCOA4, LPCAT3, and ATG5. Mechanistically, NSD2-mediated H3K36me2 activates their transcription to facilitate ferroptosis in keratinocytes. In addition, functional rescue experiments showed that restoring NCOA4, LPCAT3 or ATG5 expression reversed the ferroptosis resistance caused by NSD2 deficiency. This study identifies NSD2 as a novel critical epigenetic regulator of ferroptosis. It unveils that NSD2 is essential for ferroptosis by synchronously enhancing iron accumulation and lipid peroxidation substrate supply. This provides a new mechanistic link between epigenetic regulation and ferroptosis-related cell fate determination in the skin.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42450248 is a review article
Congenital heart defects (CHDs) are the most common major congenital anomalies and the leading cause of infant mortality attributable to birth defects. Although substantial progress has been made in the identification of single-nucleotide variants associated with CHDs, the genetic etiology of CHDs remains largely unknown. While many studies have focused on common variants, efforts are underway to identify rare variants with heterogeneous effects on CHD development. We applied a family-based genetic random field (FGRF) method to buccal cell DNA specimens collected for the National Birth Defects Prevention Study, including 1,123 case families and 1,481 control families. We and others previously showed that the FGRF method was able to identify rare genetic variants associated with disease outcomes in the presence of disease heterogeneity. In this study, we conducted gene-based association tests for 24,270 genes and identified that SLC44A2 was significantly associated with obstructive CHD risk after Bonferroni adjustment for multiple testing, representing the most robust signal observed in our analyses, while other phase-specific findings require further validation. Our subsequent gene set enrichment analyses supported the likely role of this gene in the biological pathways relevant to CHD development. Our study is complementary to existing genome-wide association studies on CHD risk, providing additional insights into the genetic etiology of these birth defects.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Syncytin-2, a human endogenous retrovirus-derived fusogen, is essential for placental syncytiotrophoblast formation by mediating trophoblast cell-cell fusion. While Syncytin-2 shares structural similarities with viral envelope proteins, the molecular mechanisms underlying its receptor recognition and membrane fusion remain poorly characterized, largely due to the lack of in vitro reconstitution systems. Here, we established an in vitro reconstitution system to investigate the initial steps of Syncytin-2-mediated membrane fusion. We purified Syncytin-2 and its receptor MFSD2A and confirmed their interaction through co-immunoprecipitation and pull-down assays. Both proteins were successfully reconstituted into liposomes and exhibited specific tethering dependent on the receptor-fusogen interaction, which is the first committed step of fusion. This study provides an in vitro reconstitution of a placental fusogen-receptor pair, establishing a powerful platform for dissecting the molecular mechanism of syncytin-mediated cell-cell fusion and shedding light on understanding placenta development at the molecular level.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42399667 is a review article
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic inflammatory autoimmune disease characterized by synovial, cartilage, and bone damage. Emerging research evidence has linked its pathogenesis to ferroptosis, arachidonic acid (ARA) metabolism, and lipid peroxidation. Lipid peroxidation serves as the final executor of ferroptosis, and arachidonate lipoxygenase (ALOX)-mediated oxidative reactions enzymatically promote lipid peroxidation. Moxibustion (MOX), a traditional therapeutic modality in Chinese medicine, has demonstrated significant efficacy in our study. Specifically, MOX applied at the Zusanli (ST36) and Shenshu (BL23) acupoints effectively ameliorated paw swelling in Freund's complete adjuvant (FCA)-induced RA model rats, significantly reduced arthritis scores, and corrected ARA metabolic dysregulation. Furthermore, MOX treatment markedly decreased the expression levels of arachidonate 15-lipoxygenase (ALOX15), acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 4 (ACSL4), lysophosphatidylcholine acyltransferase 3 (LPCAT3), and reactive oxygen species (ROS) in the synovial tissues of RA model rats while increasing the expression of ferritin heavy chain 1 (FTH1) and glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4). Serum analyses revealed significant reductions in malondialdehyde (MDA), lipid peroxide (LPO), interleukin-12 (IL-12), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) levels, alongside elevated glutathione (GSH) and superoxide dismutase (SOD) levels. The underlying mechanism involves the modulation of ALOX15-mediated lipid peroxidation to inhibit ferroptosis, thereby alleviating RA-associated inflammatory damage. These findings highlight the substantial therapeutic potential of MOX in mitigating RA-related inflammation and provide a novel theoretical basis for its clinical application in RA management.Copyright © 2026 Tiancheng Wang et al. Mediators of Inflammation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
This study explored the mechanism of Sangpi Zhike Formula in regulating the &quot;oxidation-reduction&quot; balance, reducing the accumulation of reactive oxygen species(ROS), thereby alleviating inflammatory injury and interfering with the process of ferroptosis, and relieving post-infection cough(PIC). The potential pharmacological mechanism was investigated using ultrahigh performance liquid chromatography-Q Exactive-high resolution mass spectrometry(UPLC-QE-MS) and network pharmacology. A total of 70 SPF-grade SD rats(half male and half female) were randomly divided into a normal control group, a model group, a montelukast sodium(western medicine) group, a Ferrostatin-1(ferroptosis inhibitor) group, and low-, medium-, and high-dose Sangpi Zhike Formula(TCM) groups, with 10 rats in each group. The dosages of Sangpi Zhike Formula for the low-, medium-, and high-dose TCM groups were 2.43, 4.85, and 9.70 g·kg~(-1)·d~(-1), respectively. Montelukast sodium was administered at 0.5 mg·kg~(-1)·d~(-1), while Ferrostatin-1 was injected intraperitoneally at 5 mg·kg~(-1). The treatment period lasted 14 d. Pathological damages in lung lobes was assessed by HE staining, ROS accumulation was observed by immunofluorescence, target protein expression was examined by immunohistochemistry, and lung index was calculated to evaluate pulmonary infiltration and congestion. Biochemical assays were performed to measure the levels of total superoxide dismutase(T-SOD), catalase(CAT), malondialdehyde(MDA), total antioxidant capacity(T-AOC), reduced glutathione(GSH), glutathione peroxidase(GSH-PX), oxidized glutathione(GSSG), and total iron in lung homogenates. ELISA was used to quantify tumor necrosis factor-α(TNF-α), interleukin-1β(IL-1β), and interleukin-6(IL-6). Western blot and qRT-PCR were employed to determine protein and mRNA levels of tumor protein p53(p53), cystine/glutamate transporter(SLC7A11), glutathione peroxidase 4(GPX4), long-chain acyl-CoA synthetase 4(ACSL4), lysophosphatidylcholine acyltransferase 3(LPCAT3), heme oxygenase-1(HO-1), NFE2 related factor 2(Nrf2), NLR family pyrin domain containing 3(NLRP3), Toll-like receptor 4(TLR4), and nuclear factor-kappa light chain enhancer of activated B cells p65(NF-κB p65) in lung tissue. Network pharmacology analysis indicated that the Sangpi Zhike Formula might exert therapeutic effects by targeting TNF, AKT1, IL-6, and TP53, thereby modulating ferroptosis-and pyroptosis-related signaling pathways. Experimental verification showed that compared with the normal group, the model group had obvious inflammatory cell infiltration, structural disorders, significant ROS accumulation in lung tissue, with a significantly increased fluorescence intensity(P&lt;0.01), significantly increased levels of MDA, CAT, GSSG, T-AOC, and total iron, decreased GSH level, and significantly upregulated expressions of p53, ACSL4, LPCAT3, HO-1, NLRP3, TLR4, NF-κB proteins and mRNAs(P&lt;0.01), and significantly downregulated expressions of SLC7A11, GPX4, Nrf2 proteins and mRNAs(P&lt;0.01). Compared with the model group, the medium-dose TCM group and the ferroptosis inhibitor group showed significant differences in the above indicators(P&lt;0.01); other drug intervention groups also showed significant differences in the above indicators compared with the model group(P&lt;0.05). These results suggest that the Sangpi Zhike Formula may alleviate PIC symptoms by adjusting the &quot;oxidation-reduction&quot; balance in lung tissue, reducing ROS accumulation, and thereby alleviating inflammatory injury and interfering with the ferroptosis process.
Cervical cancer (CC) remains one of the most prevalent malignancies in the female reproductive system. Methionine metabolism (MM) plays a pivotal role in various biological processes and has been implicated in cancer progression. However, its mechanisms in CC remain unclear.Transcriptomic data from 305 patients in The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) (training cohort) and 299 patients from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) (GSE44001) (external validation cohort) were analyzed for differentially expressed MM-related genes (MM-RGs). Prognostic MM-RGs were identified using Cox regression, proportional hazards testing, and Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO) regression. A risk model was constructed and validated. Functional enrichment (Gene Set Enrichment Analysis/Gene Set Variation Analysis (GSEA/GSVA)), in-silico immune infiltration (CIBERSORT) and drug sensitivity (oncoPredict) analyses were performed. Five genes were validated by Quantitative Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (qRT-PCR) on clinical samples.Eight MM-RGs (MTHFD1, SMYD2, MSRB3, MTR, ENOPH1, DNMT3B, SLC38A7, PEMT) were identified as prognostic genes. A robust risk score model was developed, stratifying patients into high- and low-risk groups with significant differences in survival outcomes. Functional enrichment revealed pathways such as ECM-receptor interaction and focal adhesion. Immune analysis indicated altered infiltration of Tregs and mast cells. In-silico drug sensitivity analysis predicted 57 agents with significantly different IC50 values between the high- and low-risk groups (p < 0.05). Notably, agents such as Cediranib and BI-2536 exhibited markedly lower IC50 values in the high-risk cohort, suggesting their potential efficacy for advanced-stage treatment. qRT-PCR preliminarily indicated the overexpression of four genes in CC tissues within a small clinical cohort.This study establishes a novel MM-based prognostic model for CC and based on in-silico predictions suggests potential therapeutic targets through comprehensive transcriptomic and experimental validation.©2026 Luo et al.
Centrosome-related genes (CRGs) regulate cell division and genomic stability and may influence tumor progression, but their prognostic and functional roles in bladder cancer (BLCA) are not fully defined.We curated 698 CRGs and identified 12 prognostic genes to construct a centrosome-related signature score (CRSS). The prognostic value of CRSS was evaluated in TCGA and GSE13507 cohorts. Functional enrichment, immune landscape, and drug sensitivity were analyzed through pathway analysis, ESTIMATE, and IC50 prediction. Machine learning and Mendelian randomization were used to identify the most promising CRGs. Furthermore, we performed single-cell RNA sequencing analysis to uncover the expression patterns of candidate CRGs. Expression and functional validation were performed using RT-qPCR, CCK-8, wound-healing assays, and immunohistochemistry.CRSS stratified patients into high- and low-risk groups with significant differences in overall survival. High-risk patients exhibited upregulated Aerobic glycolysis (AC), oxidative phosphorylation (OxPhos) and partial epithelial-mesenchymal transition (pEMT) pathways, higher immune/stromal scores, and distinct immune infiltration, including increased M0/M2 macrophages and decreased CD8⁺ T and follicular helper T cells. High-risk tumors showed altered sensitivity to multiple drugs, including AZD8186 and Staurosporine. Integrative analyses identified SPHK1 as a key candidate CRG. SPHK1 expression was associated with tumor grade, stage, poor survival, and the wound-healing molecular subtype. Functional assays showed that SPHK1 knockdown inhibited bladder cancer cell proliferation and migration. Immunohistochemistry further confirmed higher SPHK1 expression in tumors with more aggressive clinicopathological features.We established a CRG-based model for BLCA and identified SPHK1 as a key gene associated with tumor progression and clinical outcomes.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Anterior uveitis (AU), an inflammatory uveal disease, can be classified as acute or chronic based on disease progression. In this study, we aimed to identify the genetic variants of HLA-B*27 anterior uveitis in patients presenting with either acute (AAU) or chronic (CAU) within the Northern Thai population. A case-control study was conducted involving three groups: 4 individuals with AAU, 6 with CAU, and 10 healthy controls. Whole exome sequencing was performed, and data were analyzed using descriptive statistics and Python-based tools for frequency comparison. Different genetic profiles were identified for AAU and CAU. Two exclusive variants, rs2437812 (located between ABCA1 and SLC44A1) and rs12525170 (PSORS1C1) emerged as candidate variants that may help differentiate acute from chronic AU. In CAU-related gene analysis, we identified 16 SNPs with a high frequency, especially rs361525 (Tumor necrosis factor; TNF), rs8193036 (Interleukin 17A; IL17A), and rs1800693 (TNF receptor superfamily member 1A; TNFRSF1A). Our study demonstrated different genetic profiles among HLA-B*27-associated AAU and CAU, suggesting that besides HLA-B*27 positivity, different genetic factors contribute to the disease development and progression. Further research involving larger cohorts may help validate these findings and clarify the role of these SNPs in early diagnosis and personalized management strategies.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The poor prognosis of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) is primarily attributed to lymphatic or systemic metastasis. The cellular identity plasticity provides carcinocytes with the motility phenotype fluctuations, which indicates the intensified metastasis. Aiming at elucidating this lineage evolution, this study integrated single-cell RNA sequencing data from 12 primary lesions, 12 lymphatic metastases, and 12 distant metastases to portray the pan-metastatic cellular landscape. With the escalation of metastasis, there was a dramatic increase in the proportion of cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs). The spatiotemporal RNA alternative splicing and trajectory tracing methods with/without histopathological constraint observed that the SCGB3A1+ malignant epithelial cells, which become conspicuous in metastasis, undergo partial epithelial-mesenchymal transition (pEMT) to exhibit a CXCL14+ CAF phenotype, and B2M+ CAFs serve as a transdifferentiation terminal. Moreover, multimodal genetic detection identified WD repeat domain 54 (WDR54) as a potential initiator of cellular identity reshaping. Functional experiments demonstrated that WDR54-launched dedifferentiation preserves lineage plasticity via epithelial signature erosion and markedly enhances cellular invasion, migration, and MDSC-mediated immune evasion. Homologous protein structural congruence alignment and CUT&Tag profiling revealed that WDR54 initiates the TGF-β-driven pEMT program by selective H3K4me3 and H4K16ac modifications. Clinically, the practical utility of WDR54 as a diagnostic, prognostic and therapeutic target has received validation from a real-world perspective. In summary, the research establishes WDR54 as an epigenetic regulator that initializes cell identity and triggers metastasis in HNSCC.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42401541 is a review article
Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) is a common and highly refractory malignancy; however, biomarkers and therapeutic targets associated with its progression remain incompletely understood. Crotonylation is an emerging lysine acylation modification that has been implicated in multiple diseases.In this study, we aimed to identify crotonylation-related prognostic genes in CCA.First, differentially expressed genes (DEGs) with consistent expression patterns were identified using the TCGA-CHOL and GSE26566 datasets. Key module genes associated with the expression patterns of known lysine crotonylation-related gene (LCRG) scores were subsequently identified through weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), and candidate genes were obtained by intersection analysis.Three prognostic genes, complement factor H (CFH), phosphatidylcholine N-methyltransferase (PEMT), and tyrosine 3-monooxygenase/tryptophan 5-monooxygenase activation protein epsilon (YWHAE), were ultimately selected to construct and validate a prognostic risk model. In addition, immune infiltration analysis revealed significant differences in mast cell abundance between the high- and low-risk groups. Moreover, the expression levels of the immune checkpoints FMS-like tyrosine kinase 3 (FLT3) and cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4 (CTLA-4) also differed between the two risk groups.These findings may have important implications for CCA immunotherapy and provide a theoretical basis for improving diagnostic and prognostic assessment in CCA.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Tumor cells must occupy and thrive in a competitive microenvironment marked by limited metabolites, including essential amino acids like methionine. Using a leukemia suppression model and CRISPR screening, we found that the choline transporter SLC44A1 is overexpressed in leukemia patients and impacts leukemogenesis. Choline is an important nutrient for membrane synthesis and less commonly contributes to the methionine cycle. A metabolic analysis demonstrated that metabolites of the methionine pathway are significantly elevated in leukemic cells. Surprisingly, dietary restriction of methionine accelerated leukemogenesis in vivo. Choline can serve as an alternative source for methionine via the enzymatic activity of CHDH and BHMT. Under restrictive methionine conditions, BHMT and CHDH are significantly upregulated. In vivo, BHMT and CHDH are necessary for leukemia progression where they utilize choline as an alternative source to satisfy increased methionine demand. This pathway represents a vulnerability in cancer cells that may be exploited for therapeutic intervention.© 2026. The Author(s).
High-fat diet (HFD)-induced hepatic injury represents a pathology observed across vertebrates, yet the underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood. Herein, the present study identifies phosphatidylethanolamine methyltransferase (Pemt), a key enzyme in phosphatidylcholine synthesis, as a critical regulator of mitochondrial homeostasis in HFD-driven liver injury. Our findings demonstrate that knockdown or knockout of pemt in hepatocytes from large yellow croaker (Larimichthys crocea) and in zebrafish (Danio rerio) liver markedly induces apoptosis, NOD-like receptor protein 3 (Nlrp3) inflammasome activation, and mitochondrial dysfunction. Conversely, PEMT overexpression in large yellow croaker hepatocytes effectively attenuates palmitic acid-induced apoptosis, Nlrp3 inflammasome activation, and mitochondrial dysfunction. Crucially, the present study reveals a direct protein-protein interaction between Pemt and voltage-dependent anion channel 1 (Vdac1). Notably, VDAC1 overexpression significantly induces reactive oxygen species (ROS)-dependent apoptosis and Nlrp3 inflammasome activation. Mechanistically, pemt deficiency enhances Vdac1 oligomerization, which in turn triggers apoptosis and Nlrp3 inflammasome activation in hepatocytes. Collectively, our results establish that HFD-induced downregulation of Pemt promotes mitochondrial dysfunction and Vdac1 oligomerization, thereby exacerbating ROS-dependent apoptosis and Nlrp3 inflammasome activation, ultimately leading to liver injury. Our findings establish the Pemt-Vdac1 regulatory axis as a fundamental protective mechanism against overnutrition-induced liver injury in vertebrates.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Small-cell lung cancer (SCLC) is characterized by rapid growth and a pronounced neuroendocrine phenotype, accompanied by marked metabolic plasticity. Although metabolic reprogramming is a hallmark of SCLC, the molecular mechanisms coordinating glycolytic and lipid metabolic pathways remain poorly defined. Untargeted metabolomic profiling and RNA sequencing were performed on 46 surgically resected SCLC tissues, 39 paired non-tumorous lung tissues, and corresponding serum samples to identify dysregulated metabolic pathways and key regulatory genes. NCAPG expression and function were evaluated using quantitative real-time PCR, Western blotting, Seahorse extracellular flux analysis, and xenograft mouse models. Cell proliferation, apoptosis, ATP production, and reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels were quantified using standard biochemical and flow cytometric assays. Metabolomic analysis identified 438 significantly altered metabolites in SCLC, including 215 shared between tumor tissues and serum samples, indicating systemic metabolic reprogramming. Pathway enrichment analysis revealed marked activation of glycolysis, glycerophospholipid metabolism, and oxidative phosphorylation. Transcriptomic profiling identified NCAPG as one of the most upregulated genes in SCLC (fold change = 4.7, FDR < 0.001), with elevated expression associated with advanced pathological stage and poor overall survival (HR = 1.47, P = 0.002). Functional depletion of NCAPG in H69 and H446 cells reduced cell viability by 45-60% and increased apoptosis approximately twofold. Seahorse analysis demonstrated a ~ 40% reduction in extracellular acidification rate accompanied by increased oxygen consumption, indicating a metabolic shift from glycolysis toward oxidative phosphorylation. In vivo, NCAPG knockdown suppressed xenograft tumor growth by 58% and significantly downregulated key glycolytic and glycerophospholipid enzymes, including HK2, LDHA, and CHPT1. NCAPG promotes metabolic reprogramming in SCLC by sustaining coupled glycolytic and glycerophospholipid flux, thereby supporting tumor energy production and biosynthetic demands. Targeting this NCAPG-mediated metabolic axis may represent a promising therapeutic strategy for small-cell lung cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
Megaconial congenital muscular dystrophy (CMD) is an ultrarare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by phosphatidylcholine (PC) deficiency due to mutations in the choline kinase B (CHKB) gene. Although the genetic basis and morphological hallmarks of Megaconial CMD have been well characterized, the mechanisms by which lipid imbalance leads to global protein-level remodelling and muscle dysfunction remain poorly understood.To address this gap, we performed label-free quantitative LC‒MS/MS proteomic profiling of primary skeletal myoblasts derived from a Megaconial CMD patient and healthy controls. The raw data were processed with Proteome Discoverer 2.2, and the candidate differentially abundant proteins (DAPs) were subjected to Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analyses.Data quality assessment confirmed reliable clustering and clear separation between patient and control samples. A total of 218 candidate DAPs were identified, with the majority showing reduced abundance in patient-derived cells. GO and KEGG pathway enrichment analyses suggested enrichment of proteins associated with cytoskeletal organization, muscle contraction, actin-myosin filament sliding, and supramolecular fiber assembly. These findings suggest a potential association with early alterations in structural integrity and contractile machinery in myoblasts and indicate that PC deficiency may affect membrane organization and membrane-cytoskeleton interactions. Additional enriched pathways included protein homeostasis, endoplasmic reticulum processing, and stress response pathways, reflecting broad cellular perturbations. Notably, several cardiomyopathy-related pathways were also represented, likely reflecting shared sarcomeric and cytoskeletal components between skeletal and cardiac muscle.To our knowledge, this study provides the first exploratory proteome-level characterization of Megaconial CMD skeletal myoblasts and identifies candidate protein alterations associated with muscle structural organization, cytoskeletal networks, and intracellular homeostasis, warranting further validation in independent biological samples.© 2026. The Author(s).
Phosphatidylcholines (PCs) are implicated in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), yet the genetic and pathophysiological mechanisms underlying phosphatidylcholine metabolism in IBD remain poorly characterized. Here, we integrated multi-omics data with Mendelian randomization (MR) and genetic colocalization to dissect causal genetic associations between phosphatidylcholine metabolism-related genes and IBD. We conducted two-sample MR using discovery data from the FinnGen study and replication data from the IBD Genetics Consortium to evaluate causal links across 78 lipid species: 5 lysophosphatidylcholines (lyso-PCs), 46 phosphatidylcholines (PCs), and 27 phosphatidylcholine ethers (PCEs). Summary-data-based MR and multi-omics quantitative trait locus (QTL) analyses covering DNA methylation, gene expression, and protein abundance QTLs identified PRKAB1 as significantly associated with reduced risk of both IBD and ulcerative colitis (UC). Combined analysis of Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) and single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data revealed marked downregulation of PRKAB1 specifically in colonic epithelial cells during active UC inflammation. Functional loss-of-function validation via PRKAB1 knockdown confirmed its regulatory function, triggering significant reductions in intracellular PC and lyso-PC concentrations. Quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) further demonstrated that this metabolic shift was accompanied by suppressed expression of core phosphatidylcholine metabolic genes, including CHKB, PCYT1B, and PLA2G4A. Drug prediction and molecular docking suggested that metformin and quercetin may biologically plausibly target PRKAB1. Collectively, our findings suggest that PRKAB1 is a candidate target for further mechanistic research and therapeutic exploration in IBD.© 2026. The Author(s).
As a ubiquitous environmental endocrine disruptor, nonylphenol (NP) threatens aquatic organisms, driving the need for sustainable mitigation strategies. While probiotics represent promising eco-friendly supplements, their molecular mechanisms against NP toxicity remain unclear. In this study, S. meridionalis received 7-week of probiotic (Bacillus subtilis and Lactobacillus acidophilus) pretreatment followed by 15 days of NP exposure. Integrated metagenomics, transcriptomics, and metabolomics analyses, with Reverse transcription quantitative real-time PCR (RT‒qPCR) and Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) validation, were performed to elucidate microbial, genetic and metabolic responses. Growth performance, including the specific growth rate (SGR) and weight gain rate (WGR), was concurrently assessed.NP exposure significantly suppressed WGR and SGR, and induced gut microbiota dysbiosis alongside and lipid metabolism disorders in S. meridionalis. Probiotic pretreatment effectively reversed these toxic effects and restored the inhibited WGR and SGR. Multiomics integration revealed that the protective effects of probiotics were mediated by a coherent "microbe-host" co-metabolism network across 3 progressive layers: (1) Microbial Remodelling: in which beneficial taxa (e.g., Bacteroides eggerthii and Cetobacterium sp.) were enriched, and the functional capacity for short-chain fatty acid (SCFA) synthesis and ethanolamine metabolism was enhanced; (2) Host Gene Regulation: in which key lipid metabolism genes (ek1, cept1, ept1, mogat2, and abcg2a) were upregulated, and lipase activity was restored; and (3) Metabolic Pathway Activation and Physiological Repair: in which the activity of the NP-suppressed Kennedy pathway was reactivated, thereby promoting phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) and phosphatidylcholine (PC) synthesis and ultimately restoring gut barrier function. These results were further were corroborated by RT‒qPCR and ELISA.This study systematically elucidated that probiotics alleviated NP toxicity by remodelling a "microbiota-host Kennedy pathway gene-metabolite (PE and PC)-growth performance" regulatory network. The key mechanism is the beneficial microbiota activating the host Kennedy pathway and restoring gut phospholipid homeostasis and barrier function. These findings provide a theoretical basis for developing targeted, lipid metabolism focused probiotic feed additives for use in sustainable aquaculture.© 2026. The Author(s).
Investigating the genetic basis of dietary specialization can provide insights into the evolution of niche breadth. In this study, we employed comparative genomics to investigate the adaptive mechanisms enabling two bat species (Nyctalus aviator and Ia io) to shift from insectivory to seasonal bird consumption (avivorous bats). Our findings revealed adaptation related to immune response and lipid metabolism in avivorous bat species. Avivorous bats exhibit strong positive selection and convergent evolution in immune-related genes, which are under heightened selective pressure compared to those of non-avivorous bats. These species also display significantly fewer endogenous retroviral elements. These findings emphasized the significance of immune-driven adaptive evolution in avivory. Additionally, our results showed that the dietary evolution of avivorous bats is accompanied by convergent evolution associated with the lipid metabolism. Notably, CEPT1, the upstream gene required for the activation of the PPAR pathway, underwent positive selection and convergence, which may have affected lipid metabolism. These adaptations may enable avivorous bat species to face the challenge of immune response and nutrition during dietary niche expansion. These findings not only provide comprehensive insights into the adaptive evolution driving the unique diet of avivorous bats but also offered novel perspectives on the molecular mechanisms underlying ecological niche evolution in a dietary context.© 2026 International Society of Zoological Sciences, Institute of Zoology/Chinese Academy of Sciences and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Placenta accreta spectrum (PAS) is a serious obstetric complication with limited understanding of its molecular basis. This study investigates metabolic and transcriptomic alterations in PAS placentas to uncover potential mechanisms and biomarkers.Placental tissues from PAS patients (n = 19) and controls (n = 10) underwent untargeted metabolomics via Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Differential metabolites were analyzed for pathway enrichment. RNA sequencing was performed to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs), followed by Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) and disease ontology enrichment. Integrated metabolomic-transcriptomic analysis was used to identify key metabolic pathways, and findings were validated in an expanded cohort (22 PAS cases, 50 controls). Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis was performed to assess the diagnostic performance of Lecithin, phosphate cytidylyltransferase 1 beta (PCYT1B), and their combination for predicting PAS.A total of 203 metabolites were differentially expressed in PAS placentas, with lipid and lipid-like molecules comprising the largest class. Several phosphatidylcholine (PC) species were significantly upregulated, indicating dysregulated glycerophospholipid metabolism. Transcriptome analysis identified 578 DEGs, including upregulation of PCYT1B and endothelial lipase (LIPG), both involved in lipid metabolism. Enrichment analysis revealed activation of glycerolipid and glycosphingolipid pathways and the potential involvement with metabolic disorders. Integrated analysis highlighted enhanced phosphatidylcholine biosynthesis, supported by elevated PCYT1B expression and increased total PC levels in PAS placentas. Lecithin showed higher sensitivity but lower specificity, while PCYT1B displayed intermediate performance. Their combination yielded the best discrimination with an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.791 (95% CI: 0.684-0.899).PAS is characterized by significant alterations in lipid metabolism, particularly increased phosphatidylcholine biosynthesis via the Kennedy pathway. These findings provide new insights into the molecular pathogenesis of PAS and suggest potential metabolic targets for early diagnosis or intervention.© 2026. The Author(s).
Although targeted therapies have improved clinical outcomes, HER2+ breast cancer remains a significant clinical challenge due to its aggressive behavior and unfavorable prognosis. Emerging evidence indicates that dysregulated lipid metabolism plays a critical role in tumorigenesis and metastasis, suggesting that targeting lipid metabolism may represent a promising therapeutic strategy. STARD10, a lipid transport protein, plays a pivotal role in regulating lipid metabolism. However, its function in mediating lipid metabolism and tumor progression in HER2+ breast cancer remains unclear.The expression level and prognostic relevance of STARD10 in HER2+ breast cancer were analyzed using public databases and clinical cohorts. CCK-8, EdU, colony formation, transwell, LD540, and Nile Red staining assays were performed in SKBR3 and HCC1954 cells. Subcutaneous implantation and tail vein injection were performed to evaluate the effects of STARD10 overexpression on tumor growth and lung metastasis in vivo. The mechanism was validated by RNA-seq and Western blotting.STARD10 expression was upregulated in HER2+ breast cancer tissues and was significantly correlated with poor prognosis. Functionally, STARD10 overexpression enhanced HER2+ breast cancer cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and lipid droplets accumulation. Moreover, STARD10 overexpression markedly accelerated tumor growth and lung metastasis in vivo. Mechanistically, STARD10 was found to drive malignant phenotypes via activation of the cAMP/PKA/CREB1 signaling axis.STARD10 promotes malignant progression of HER2+ breast cancer and lipid droplets accumulation by activating the cAMP/PKA/CREB1 pathway. These findings suggest that STARD10 and the cAMP/PKA/CREB1 signaling axis as potential therapeutic targets for the treatment and prevention of HER2+ breast cancer.
Loss-of-function variants of the CHKB gene cause an autosomal recessive disease described as an early onset congenital megaconial (large peripheral mitochondria) muscular dystrophy. CHKB encodes choline kinase β, the first enzyme in the biochemical pathway for synthesis of the major membrane phospholipid phosphatidylcholine. Chkb -/- mice recapitulate the human disease with affected skeletal muscle displaying a decrease in strength, myofiber atrophy, megaconial mitochondria, fat accumulation within muscle cells, and an increase in muscle injury. Here, we assessed the therapeutic potential of an AAV therapy for the treatment of CHKB-mediated muscular dystrophy. Chkb -/- mice were injected once suborbitally with three different doses of recombinant AAV9 (rAAV9) encoding human CHKB under control of a constitutive and ubiquitous promoter (AAV9-CHKB). The AAV9-CHKB-treated mice were biochemically and phenotypically indistinguishable from the wild type mice. In the Chkb -/- mouse model, all doses resulted in expression of the CHKB protein and restored choline kinase β enzyme activity, body and muscle weight, and normal muscle cell physiology, and they prevented lipid metabolism imbalance and increased the capacity to walk. These findings point to AAV9-mediated gene therapy as a potential treatment for CHKB-mediated disease.© 2026 The Author(s).
Asthma is associated with disordered glycerophospholipid metabolism and decreased phosphatidylcholine (PC), but the molecular basis remains incompletely defined. Through integrative data mining, we identify CEPT1, a key enzyme in glycerophospholipid biosynthesis, to be significantly downregulated in the airway epithelium of asthma. CEPT1 deficiency causes PC/PE reduction and phospholipid imbalance, activates all three endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress pathways, disturbs ER Ca2+ stores, and drives mitochondrial Ca2+ overload, which in turn triggers mitochondrial oxidative stress. Notably, administration of polyenylphosphatidylcholine (PPC) restores ER and mitochondrial homeostasis and reduces apoptosis, cytokine release, and mucus overproduction. FOXA1 is identified as a direct transcriptional activator of CEPT1. In vivo, CEPT1 overexpression alleviates airway inflammation and mucus hypersecretion. Collectively, our study elucidates an axis wherein FOXA1-mediated CEPT1 repression induces ER stress and mitochondrial dysfunction through disrupted calcium handling, driving mucin hypersecretion and airway inflammation-identifying CEPT1 restoration or PPC as potential mechanism-based interventions for asthma.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Pork is a primary dietary protein source for humans, with its lipid composition being a critical determinant of meat quality and nutritional value. Existing studies have confirmed that intramuscular fat (IMF) and subcutaneous fat possess distinct lipid metabolic profiles. However, the lipid profiles of cultured fats from distinct seed cells remain uncharacterized. Here, we compared lipid composition of cultured fats produced from porcine subcutaneous pre-adipocytes (SAT) and fibro-adipogenic progenitors (FAPs) using a liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry approach. The FAPs-derived cultured fat exhibited significantly lower total lipid content but higher proportions of glycerophospholipids, whereas SAT-derived cultured fat showed higher levels of triglycerides and ceramides. Transcriptomics revealed distinct expression patterns of key genes involved in glycerolipid, glycerophospholipid, and sphingolipid metabolism, including DGAT1/2, CHKA, CHPT1, CEPT1, and CERS1, underpinning the observed lipid differences. Our findings provide insights into cell-type-specific lipid characteristics and a basis for optimizing cultured fat nutritional quality via seed cell selection.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Obstetrical diseases are complications associated with pregnancy or childbirth that can cause maternal sequelae and fetal complications. Among them, preeclampsia (PE) and preterm labor (PTL) are major causes of premature birth and are associated with an increased risk of cerebral palsy, developmental delay, and hearing impairment in infants. However, reliable diagnostic markers and therapeutic strategies for obstetrical diseases remain limited. The aim of this study was to investigate genes associated with obstetrical diseases and to evaluate the correlation between phosphocholine cytidylyltransferase 1 beta (PCYT1B) and miRNAs targeting PCYT1B for diagnostic analysis in PE and PTL. Using miRNA array analysis and luciferase assays, we identified PCYT1B, a key enzyme involved in phosphocholine metabolism in reproductive tissues, together with several candidate miRNAs targeting PCYT1B, including miR-3065-3p, miR-4660, miR-6752-5p, miR-6842-5p and miR-7110-5p. qRT-PCR analysis revealed a significant correlation between PCYT1B and these miRNAs in placental tissues from patients with PE and PTL (p < 0.05). Immunofluorescence staining further demonstrated that PCYT1B was localized in the syncytiotrophoblast layer of placental tissues, and its protein expression was consistent with mRNA expression levels. To investigate the functional role of these miRNAs, trophoblast cells were treated with miRNA mimics and inhibitors. These treatments significantly altered trophoblast invasion capacity and regulated the expression of migration-related genes, including RhoA, Rac1 and ROCK. Collectively, our findings suggest that miRNAs targeting PCYT1B may regulate trophoblast function and may play a key role in placental development and obstetrical diseases. These results indicate that PCYT1B and its regulatory miRNAs could serve as potential biomarkers for PE and PTL and may provide insights into the development of miRNA-based diagnostic strategies.
The continuous expression of HPV oncogenes E6 and E7 contributes to the maintenance of the cervical cancer (CC) phenotype by altering gene expression programs involved in tumor progression and aggressiveness. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have emerged as critical regulators of gene expression in CC, including miR-218-5p, which has been described as a tumor suppressor. In this study, we investigated the impact of HPV-16 oncoproteins E6 and E7 on the regulation of miR-218-5p expression and its target gene PIK3C2A, as well as their functional and clinical relevance in CC. We found that miR-218-5p expression is significantly reduced in HPV-16-positive CC cell lines, while PIK3C2A expression is increased. Silencing the expression of the E6/E7 oncogenes in Ca Ski cells restored miR-218-5p levels and reduced PIK3C2A expression. Conversely, overexpression of the E6 and E7 oncogenes in C-33 A cells significantly decreased miR-218-5p expression and increased PIK3C2A expression. Functional assays performed on C-33 A cells expressing E6 and E7 revealed that ectopic expression of miR-218-5p suppresses cell proliferation and migration, effects that are partially mediated by PIK3C2A. Bioinformatics analysis showed that low miR-218-5p expression and high PIK3C2A expression are associated with reduced overall survival in patients with cervical cancer. Our findings identify the miR-218-5p/PIK3C2A axis as a novel regulatory pathway modulated by HPV-16 oncoproteins E6 and E7 that contributes to CC cell proliferation and migration. Furthermore, miR-218-5p and PIK3C2A emerge as potential prognostic biomarkers in CC.
Myocardial ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury is a frequent complication of acute myocardial infarction (AMI), yet clinical biomarkers and targets remain limited. Although tRNA-derived small RNAs (tsRNAs) are emerging cardiovascular regulators, their roles in I/R injury are not fully elucidated. We identified tsRNA-3025a via sequencing in mouse I/R models and validated its clinical significance. Circulating tsRNA-3025a was significantly upregulated in AMI and unstable angina patients, independently predicting adverse events within 30 days. Functionally, tsRNA-3025a exacerbated apoptosis and mitochondrial dysfunction in vitro, while its in vivo silencing reduced infarct size, improved cardiac function and increased the proportion of Ki67- and pH3-positive cardiomyocytes. Mechanistically, tsRNA-3025a aggravated injury by targeting PIK3C2A, thereby suppressing autophagosome formation and impairing protective autophagic flux during reperfusion. In conclusion, circulating tsRNA-3025a serves as a prognostic biomarker for post-PCI patients. Targeting tsRNA-3025a attenuates myocardial I/R injury and restores myocardial regeneration and repair by regulating PIK3C2A-mediated protective autophagy flux.
Phosphatidylinositol (4,5) bisphosphate (PI(4,5)P2) plays important roles in development, signaling, intracellular trafficking and regulation throughout the nervous system. Using selective and combined gene ablation strategies, in mice of both sexes, we have determined the roles of this lipid and the kinase isoforms of the PIP5KI family primarily responsible for its synthesis in mouse retina. In rod cells, PI(4,5)P2 localizes predominantly to the plasma membrane of inner and outer segments and is enriched in membranes near the synaptic termini. Disruption of the gene encoding the γ PIP5KI isoform, Pip5k1c, throughout the developing retina, using Cre expression driven by a Six3 transcription factor-dependent promoter, yields dramatic, but not complete, loss of the protein, with no apparent effects on morphology or function through the first 3-4 months after birth. Slowly progressing photoreceptor degeneration is observed at later ages. Complete loss of the γ isoform in rods, driven by the rhodopsin promoter-based iCre75 transgene, leads to no obvious developmental defects, but results in an earlier-onset rod degeneration. Germ-line ablation of neither the Pip5k1a nor the Pip5k1b gene leads to any observable morphological defects. Homozygous Pip5k1a ablation leads to functional defects in photoreceptors as revealed by reduced a-wave and b-wave amplitudes in the electroretinograms. On the background of rod-specific Pip5k1c ablation, Pip5k1a deficiency greatly accelerates retinal degeneration. These results reveal a complex interplay among PIP5KI isoforms in ensuring proper photoreceptor function and health, with apparent partial redundancy in fulfilling their critical functions. They underscore the important role of PI(4,5)P2 in neuronal signaling and homeostasis.Significance Statement Phosphatidylinositol(4,5)P2, PI(4,5)P2, plays essential roles in nervous system development and function, but its roles in retina have been unknown. This study combines biochemistry, mouse genetics, light- and electron microscopy to reveal both specific and redundant functions for PIP2 formed by different kinase isoforms in the mammalian retina. It has implications for retinal function, disease and therapy, and for the broader field of phosphoinositide regulation.Copyright © 2026 the authors.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most lethal cancers worldwide because of metastasis. The class II α-isoform of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PIK3C2A) was found to be a regulator in proliferation and migration of endothelial cells, but its role in cancer metastasis has less been evaluated. In this study we find it functions as a tumor suppressor. PIK3C2A was frequently down-regulated in human HCC cells and tissues. Low PIK3C2A expression correlated with elevated LRP6 phosphorylation, β-catenin nuclear accumulation, and Wnt/β-catenin hyperactivation in clinical HCC tissues. Low PIK3C2A predicted poor overall and disease-free survival and aggressive clinicopathological features. Loss of PIK3C2A significantly promoted HCC cells invasion and migration in vitro, and promoted tumor growth and metastasis in vivo. And these changed phenotypes by PIK3C2A knockdown in HCC cells could be rescued by exogenous expression of PIK3C2A. Mechanism studies demonstrated loss of PIK3C2A activated Wnt/β-catenin signaling dramatically. Further investigations showed loss of PIK3C2A gave rise to a decrease in phosphatidylinositol (3,4) bisphosphate (PI(3,4)P2) and an increase in phosphatidylinositol (4,5) bisphosphate (PI(4,5)P2), therefore promoting phosphorylation of low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 6 (LRP6). Moreover, the activated Wnt/β-catenin signaling and the significantly increased invasion and migration cells by loss of PIK3C2A were also markedly suppressed in various levels respectively by inhibiting LRP6 phosphorylation in diverse levels. Inhibiting LRP6 phosphorylation abolished PIK3C2A-mediated effects. Taken together, our results indicate PIK3C2A suppresses HCC metastasis by targeting Wnt/β-catenin signaling via inhibiting phosphorylation of LRP6, and can serve as a prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target for HCC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate 5-kinase type 1 beta (PIP5K1B), an enzyme linked to actin cytoskeleton dynamics, has a paradoxical role in cancer. While pan-cancer analyses show its dual nature, its impact on overall survival (OS) in stomach adenocarcinoma (STAD) is unclear.We combined bulk RNA sequencing data (TCGA/GTEx, 33 cancers) and single- cell transcriptomics data (STAD cohort) to track PIP5K1B expression in STAD. Cox regression and Kaplan-Meier models assessed their prognostic effect on OS, with immune infiltration and methylation-epigenetic correlation analyses. GDSC pharmacogenomic data evaluated drug sensitivity links.Pan-cancer analysis found PIP5K1B had a unique prognostic impact in STAD, with high expression raising death risk (OS: hazard ratios (HR) = 1.55, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.31 - 1.84, P = 3.5e-07). Single-cell mapping showed PIP5K1B in tumor-associated myofibroblasts, regulating tumor cell antigen processing via toll-like receptor signaling. Clinically, STAD patients had higher PIP5K1B expression (P = 0.0013), and death risk rose with cancer stage (HR = 2.375, 95% CI = 1.499 - 3.762, P = 0.00058). Despite immune evasion in high-PIP5K1B tumors, they were sensitive to bleomycin (P < 0.001, R2 = 0.06) and docetaxel (P < 0.001, R2 = 0.21).The study's findings underscore the potential of PIP5K1B as a prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target in gastric cancer, opening up new possibilities for personalized treatment approaches.Integrating pan-cancer multi-omics data, we found PIP5K1B serves as a significant prognostic biomarker in STAD, with its high expression linked to poor survival outcomes. Its expression in tumor - associated myofibroblasts and involvement in antigen processing suggest a complex role in the tumor immune landscape. Furthermore, the sensitivity of high - PIP5K1B tumors to specific chemotherapies offers new avenues for targeted treatment strategies in STAD.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) is a complex neurodevelopmental disorder with substantial genetic heterogeneity. While coding variants have been extensively studied, non-coding regulatory variants-which constitute approximately 99% of the human genome-remain largely underexplored. Their functional impact, particularly at the single-cell level and in organoid models, requires further characterization to better understand how these variants contribute to ASD pathogenesis.We performed targeted sequencing of 85,394 active cis-regulatory elements (cCREs) from ENCODE v2 in 600 samples (200 trios) previously negative for pathogenic coding variants. Using the Sei deep learning framework, we predicted regulatory impact scores for de novo and ultra-rare inherited variants. Gene mapping of regulatory variants was done using the T Gene tool which assigns target genes by integrating expression data. Differential gene expression was assessed using single-nucleus RNA-seq data from ASD and control brains (n = 64 individuals, ~ 600,000) from Wembley et al, 2023 and temporal gene expression dynamics was characterized in human cortical organoids scRNA seq data across four developmental stages (23 days to 6 months) from the Cortical Organoid Atlas (Broad Institute).We identified 164 de novo variants in 103 probands and 53,023 ultra-rare inherited variants in 199 probands. Following Sei-based prioritization, 47 de novo variants in 44 probands and 13,258 inherited variants in 198 probands showed significant regulatory impact score > 1.1. De novo variants were enriched in promoter-like sequences (PLS) (p = 0.02), with 53.19% affecting CTCF-mediated chromatin boundaries. Inherited variants showed significant enrichment for CTCF-binding loss (p = 1.55×10-8) and demonstrated maternal transmission bias (50.85% vs 49.15%, p = 9.97×10-5). Single-cell analysis of the target predicted genes revealed distinct cellular architectures for both gene groups. De novo genes ( POGZ, ROCK2, NFIB ) showed focused dysregulation in oligodendrocytes and specific neuronal populations, while inherited genes ( SYNJ2, UBC, CLU, DLC1 ) exhibited broader effects across multiple cell types. Cortical organoid profiling demonstrated that de novo genes display progressive developmental activation with precise spatiotemporal specificity- POGZ and ROCK2 exhibited bimodal expression peaks at 1 and 6 months in outer radial glia while NFIB showed linear upregulation across progenitor populations. In contrast, inherited genes maintained constitutive expression throughout development, with the exception of CLU, which showed regulated upregulation at later stages. Remarkably, de novo regulatory genes (POGZ, NFIB) are previously identified autism risk genes in large scale sequencing studies, providing validation of dosage sensitivity mechanisms.Our analysis of regulatory variants in ASD indicates that non-coding mutations significantly contribute to ASD risk by disrupting CTCF domains, leading to alterations in cell type-specific gene regulation. Most de novo regulatory mutations predominantly target genes whose expression is dynamic, varying across different cell types and neurodevelopmental stages, whereas inherited regulatory variants affect constitutively expressed genes across multiple cell types, with stable expression throughout development with the exception of CLU. We also found that genes affected by de novo regulatory variants substantially overlap with those harboring pathogenic coding mutations identified in large-scale sequencing studies. These.
Hepatic cancer cells regulate reactive oxygen species (ROS) and lipid kinases to promote proliferation and survival. The role of phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate-5-kinase (PIP5K) in modulating the autophagy-Nrf2 antioxidant pathway remains unclear. In this study, we investigated the impact of PIP5K on the ROS-dependent autophagy-Nrf2 axis using specific isoform inhibitors (PIP5K1A: ISA-201IB; PIP5K1B: IITZ01) and further identified NG-TZ-17 and NG-TZ-20, which are analogs of IITZ01, as novel inhibitors of the PIP5KB isoform.The association between PIP5K and the ROS-autophagy-Nrf2 pathway was examined in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) tissue samples (n = 36) and hepatic cancer cell lines. In vitro, HepG2 cells (expressing high PIP5K levels) were treated with PIP5K isoform-specific inhibitors, autophagy inhibitors, and Nrf2 inhibitors in the presence of hydrogen peroxide (H2O2). The effects on ROS generation, proliferation, autophagy, antioxidant defense, and apoptosis were assessed using MitoSOX staining, immunofluorescence, and Western blot analysis. In vivo, SCID mice xenografted with GFP-HepG2 cells were treated orally with PIP5K inhibitors (IITZ01 and NG-TZ-17; 50 mg/kg) or sorafenib (60 mg/kg). Tumor progression was monitored through animal imaging, survival analysis, tumor volume measurement, and Western blotting of excised tumors.PIP5K isoforms, Beclin-1, and Nrf2 expression increased with advancing HCC grade. Autophagy induction upregulated PIP5K isoforms, Nrf2, HO-1, and SOD2, thereby protecting cells from hydrogen peroxide-induced apoptosis. PIP5K inhibition enhanced ROS-mediated apoptosis by suppressing proliferation, autophagy, and Nrf2 signaling. In vivo, NG-TZ-17 and IITZ01 significantly reduced tumor burden, with efficacy comparable to sorafenib (p < 0.001 vs. vehicle control).PIP5K isoforms promote hepatic cancer cell proliferation under oxidative stress conditions. Targeting PIP5K sensitizes cells to ROS-mediated apoptosis through modulation of the PI3K/AKT/mTOR and autophagy pathways, highlighting PIP5K as a promising therapeutic target in hepatocellular carcinoma.Copyright © 2026 Shantanu, Rajdev, Syamprasad, Gangasani, Mandal, Panda, Sistla, Andugulapati, Sarin, Tripathi and Naidu.
Excessive dietary fructose intake is gradually recognised to exacerbate intestinal inflammation in Ulcerative Colitis (UC) through disruption of epithelial barrier integrity and microbial dysbiosis, resulting in hyper immune activation. Inflammation in UC is generally linked with PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway activation; however, the underlying molecular mechanisms behind fructose-mediated immune hyper-activation remains incompletely understood. Hence, this study is aimed to investigate the role of phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate 5-kinases (PIP5Ks), a probable upstream regulator of PI3K, in high-fructose diet-induced colonic inflammation. In vitro and in vivo models of high fructose exposure were employed to evaluate the expression and functional role of PIP5Ks through pharmacological inhibition using ISA 2011B (PIP5K1A inhibitor) and IITZ01 (PIP5K1B inhibitor). Inflammatory responses, epithelial integrity, and disease severity were assessed using molecular, histological, and clinical indices in the high fructose + DSS induced UC in rodent model. High fructose exposure enhanced PIP5K expression, leading to increased levels of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2), a key substrate for PI3K. This activation triggered downstream signalling that amplified inflammatory responses and compromised epithelial barrier function. Inhibition of PIP5Ks markedly attenuated fructose-induced inflammation in both cellular and animal models. Notably, IITZ01 demonstrated superior efficacy compared to ISA 2011B, as evidenced by improved disease activity index, restored epithelial structure, and reduced inflammatory burden. Collectively, our findings identify PIP5Ks as a critical mediator of fructose-induced intestinal inflammation and establish the PIP5K-PI3K signalling axis as a key regulator of macrophage activation and epithelial dysfunction. Targeting PIP5Ks may represent a promising therapeutic strategy for the management of UC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Integration of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) DNA into the human genome is a critical event in nasopharyngeal carcinogenesis. Here, we comprehensively characterize large-scale virus-human integration events in three EBV-positive nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) cell lines and one patient NPC tumor using Nanopore long-read sequencing technology. We identified four distinct integration types, with Type A being particularly prevalent, characterized by the integration of a single fragment of the EBV genome followed by human DNA. Our findings reveal the involvement of multiple integration events in inducing inter-chromosomal translocations, leading to significant genomic disruption through chromosomal rearrangements. Additionally, we explore the relationship between EBV integration sites and structural variations, further supporting the role of EBV integration in driving genomic instability. By integrating RNA-seq data, we demonstrate the potential for EBV integration to disrupt gene expression, highlighting several integration sites within cancer-associated genes such as CD96, ARHGAP27, ASH1L, KDM3B, ZMYM2, and PIK3C2A. Notably, EBV-human fusion events were prevalent in EBV-associated NPCs, including intriguing fusion transcripts such as LRRC8C-RPMS1 and LINC00486-RPMS1, which provide further evidence of the oncogenic potential of EBV integration. Taken together, this study uncovers EBV integration patterns in Nasopharyngeal carcinogenesis using long-read sequencing technology.© 2026. The Author(s).
mRNA vaccines have emerged as a promising platform for cancer immunotherapy, particularly following the success of COVID-19 vaccines. However, the development of cancer vaccines presents challenges such as difficulties in antigen prediction and poor immunogenicity, especially in identifying and delivering highly immunogenic tumor-specific antigens. The variability and low immunogenicity of tumor antigens further complicates this process.This study utilized public data and bioinformatics analysis to identify potential tumor antigens in cancer and characterize different immune subtypes. This approach aims to guide the development of cancer mRNA vaccines with enhanced immune response.In the cancer genome atlas rectal adenocarcinoma(TCGA-READ), Exon skipping was the most common alternative splicing event in TCGA-READ, whereas mutually exclusive exons were the least common. We identified 4480 upregulated and 3328 downregulated AS events, with missense mutations being the most frequent. A total of 217 potential antigen genes were identified by intersecting upregulated AS anomalies and frameshift mutations. FAM135A, GAR1, and CDIPT have been highlighted as potential antigens, with FAM135A showing significant correlation with immune cell infiltration. TCGA-READ samples stratified into C1 and C2 subtypes by survival and immune profiles revealed that C2 tumors derive markedly greater benefit from CTLA-4/PD-1 blockade than C1 tumors, underscoring the value of molecular subtyping in guiding precision immunotherapy.FAM135A was identified as a potential tumor vaccine antigen, and an immune subtype analysis was conducted in different patients. This study provides guidance for the development of novel cancer mRNA vaccines.Copyright © 2026 Weng, Luo, Gao, Zhang, Zhuang and Dai.
Mapping enhancers and their target genes in specific cell types is crucial for understanding gene regulation and human disease genetics. However, accurately predicting enhancer-gene regulatory interactions from single-cell datasets has been challenging. Here we introduce a family of classification models, scE2G, to predict enhancer-gene regulation. These models use features from single-cell assay for transposase-accessible chromatin with sequencing (ATAC-seq) or multiomic RNA and ATAC-seq data, and are trained on a CRISPR perturbation dataset including >10,000 evaluated element-gene pairs. We benchmark scE2G models against CRISPR perturbations, fine-mapped expression quantitative trait loci and genome-wide association study variant-gene associations and demonstrate state-of-the-art performance at prediction tasks across several cell types and categories of perturbations. We apply scE2G to build maps of enhancer-gene regulatory interactions in heterogeneous tissues and interpret noncoding variants associated with complex traits, nominating regulatory interactions linking INPP4B and IL15 to lymphocyte count. The scE2G models will enable accurate mapping of enhancer-gene regulatory interactions across thousands of human cell types.© 2026. The Author(s).
Diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma (DIPG) is a highly lethal and therapeutically refractory pediatric brain tumor, and the effects of distinct disease backgrounds on treatment response and residual cell-state plasticity remain poorly understood. We evaluated abemaciclib, an FDA-approved CDK4/6 inhibitor, combined with temozolomide (TMZ) and radiation (XRT) in two patient-derived orthotopic xenograft (PDOX) models established from a treatment-naïve biopsy (IBs-9119DIPG) and a previously treated autopsy tumor (IBs-A0317DIPG). Treatment activity was assessed in PDOX-derived 3D tumor organoids and in randomized DIPG PDOX studies, followed by survival analysis, immunohistochemistry, and endpoint single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq). The triple therapy generated synergistic antitumor effects in PDOX-derived organoids and significantly prolonged survival in both PDOX models (P < 0.05) despite their distinct baseline molecular and cell-state differences. Endpoint scRNA-seq revealed reduced oligodendrocyte-progenitor-like (OPC-like) cells in both models and decreased astrocyte-like cells in the IBs-A0317DIPG model as cell-state changes associated with treatment response. In contrast, neural progenitor-like (NPC-like) cells expanded in IBs-A0317DIPG, whereas mesenchymal-like and mitotic-like populations persisted in IBs-9119DIPG as candidate therapy-tolerant states. Pseudotime trajectory analysis uncovered a resistance-associated trajectory characterized by an exit from stemness toward differentiation in OPC-like cells in treatment-naïve IBs-9119DIPG, in contrast to the enrichment of stem-like OPC-like and NPC-like cells in therapy-resistant IBs-A0317DIPG. A transcriptionally defined radiation-resistance-associated subpopulation with candidate radiosensitization target genes (NPAS3, TBC1D15, and INPP4B) was also identified. Overall, the triple therapy improved survival in clinically distinct DIPG PDOX models and revealed therapy-associated residual cell-state changes that may inform future strategies to improve durable DIPG tumor control.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is established for levodopa-responsive Parkinson's disease (PD), but the outcomes of DBS in rare genetic early-onset parkinsonism remain incompletely defined. While its efficacy is documented in monogenic forms of parkinsonism (e.g., LRRK2, Parkin, PINK1, and SNCA), clinical data regarding the safety and efficacy of DBS in carriers of the SYNJ1 mutation remain scarce.We report two patients with SYNJ1-related early-onset parkinsonism treated with bilateral DBS and place their outcomes in a single-center gene-listed EOPD DBS cohort. Case 1 carried a novel homozygous SYNJ1 c.1969A > G (p. Thr657Ala) missense variant and 46, XY disorder of sex development; GPi-DBS enabled the levodopa equivalent daily dose (LEDD) reduction from 775 to 300 mg/day, with improved dyskinesia and sleep, although motor fluctuations and neuropsychiatric symptoms persisted. Case 2 carried a SYNJ1 c.1627 + 13 T > A intronic variant; subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation (STN-DBS) reduced the LEDD from 955 to 605 mg/day and Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS-III) score from 51 to 32 at 1.5-year follow-up. In the contextual cohort, the median LEDD reduction after DBS was 35.2%. These observations support DBS as a feasible symptomatic strategy in selected genetic early-onset Parkinson's disease (EOPD) while emphasizing genotype-specific uncertainty.These cases illustrate heterogeneous clinical responses to DBS in patients with early-onset parkinsonism carrying SYNJ1 variants. DBS may provide symptomatic benefit in carefully selected patients, but the small sample size and variant-level uncertainty preclude conclusions regarding genotype-specific efficacy.Copyright © 2026 Liu, Zhang, Chen, Xu, Huang, Zhou and Zheng.
The genetic architecture of Parkinson's disease varies considerably across ancestries, yet most previous genetic studies have focused on individuals of European ancestry. We aimed to characterise the distribution of established Parkinson's disease causal variants, as well as risk-associated variants with clinical implications (ie, variants in genes involved in pathways targeted by ongoing clinical trials), across ancestrally diverse populations.We conducted a multi-ancestry, observational, cross-sectional genetic study using retrospective data from the Global Parkinson's Genetics Program (GP2) release 11 (released in December, 2025). The study investigated causal and risk variants, including copy number variants, in established Parkinson's disease and parkinsonism-associated genes, following the recommendations of the Movement Disorder Society (MDS) Task Force on the Nomenclature of Genetic Movement Disorders, including GBA1, LRRK2, SNCA, VPS35, RAB32, PINK1, PRKN, PARK7, ATP13A2, DCTN1, DNAJC6, FBXO7, JAM2, RAB39B, SLC20A2, SYNJ1, VPS13C, and WDR45. Individuals with Parkinson's disease were diagnosed based on established clinical criteria, including the Parkinson's UK Brain Bank or MDS diagnostic criteria (or both), and healthy control participants were defined as individuals without evidence of neurodegenerative disease and unrelated to participants with Parkinson's disease. We analysed genome and exome sequencing and array genotyping data of 99 783 individuals, including 58 559 individuals with Parkinson's disease and 41 224 controls, from 11 genetically inferred ancestries (African, African admixed, Ashkenazi Jewish, Latino and Indigenous people of the Americas, central Asian, complex admixture, east Asian, European, Finnish, Middle Eastern, and south Asian), defined using reference population-based ancestry inference methods. We calculated allele frequencies for all investigated variants in individuals with Parkinson's disease and controls, both overall and stratified by ancestry.Approximately 29% of individuals (29 001 of 99 783; 15 443 [26·4%] of 58 559 individuals with Parkinson's disease and 13 558 [32·9%] of 41 224 controls) were from under-represented populations (ie, non-European and non-Ashkenazi Jewish). Our findings indicated both shared genetic contributors across ancestries as well as ancestry-specific differences in variant frequencies and the spectrum of variants within Parkinson's disease-associated genes. Overall, 1217 (2·1%) of 58 559 individuals with Parkinson's disease carried a causal variant, with substantial variations across ancestries ranging from ten (0·4%) of 2844 African individuals to 251 (10·7%) of 2343 individuals of Ashkenazi Jewish ancestry. Risk variants in GBA1 and LRRK2 were identified in 6893 (11·8%) of 58 559 individuals with Parkinson's disease and 3578 (8·7%) of 41 224 controls. GBA1 risk variants were most frequent overall and identified across all ancestries, but variant frequency and spectra differed substantially between ancestries, from 195 (4·1%) of 4773 in the east Asian ancestry group to 1505 (52·9%) of 2844 in the African ancestry group. Similarly, LRRK2 causal and risk variants showed ancestry-specific enrichment, with the highest frequencies of causal variants in the Ashkenazi Jewish (250 [10·7%] of 2343) and Middle Eastern (59 [4·4%] of 1347) ancestry groups, whereas risk variants were predominantly identified in the east Asian ancestry group (601 [12·6%] of 4773). Carriers of biallelic causal variants in PRKN, commonly including deletions and duplications, were also identified across all ancestries except Ashkenazi Jewish; the highest frequency was in the Middle Eastern ancestry group (17 [1·3%] of 1347), and frequencies in all other ancestries were less than 1%.This large-scale, multi-ancestry genetic study offers crucial insights into the population-specific genetic architecture of Parkinson's disease. Whereas clinical trials targeting GBA1 and LRRK2 variant carriers are primarily performed in Europe and the USA, increased ancestral diversity in Parkinson's disease research will be crucial to improve diagnostic accuracy, enhance our understanding of disease mechanisms across populations, and ensure equitable application of and access to emerging genetically informed therapies.Aligning Science Across Parkinson's (ASAP) through the Global Parkinson's Genetics Program (GP2).Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Synaptojanin 1 is a brain enriched phosphoinositide phosphatase implicated in endocytosis at the synapse. A mutation (R258Q) that selectively impairs its Sac1 phosphatase domain causes early onset familial Parkinsonism. Neurons of mice with this mutation display synaptic vesicle traffic defects across the brain, but selective dystrophic changes in a subset of dopaminergic axons in the dorsolateral striatum. Using correlative light microscopy-FIB-SEM of mutant mouse striata to visualize in 3D these abnormal structures we show that they represent clusters of focal axonal dilations harboring massive, onion-like DAT enriched plasma membrane infoldings, generally localized next to cell bodies of neighboring cells, often engulfing evaginations of such cells. This dysmorphia was associated with a deficit in dopamine release in the same striatal region. Given the involvement of Synj1 in endocytic mechanisms, these structures may reflect an imbalance between exocytosis and endocytosis. Their occurrence only in a subset of axons suggest a vulnerability threshold of these axons beyond which the expansion of the plasma membrane is not counteracted by compensatory mechanisms.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42412262 is a review article
Most insights into the genetics of Parkinson's disease (PD) arise from European cohorts, leaving the genomic diversity of India underexplored. To address this gap, we performed whole-genome sequencing of 197 Indian PD cases (106 with early-onset PD (EOPD) and 91 with late-onset PD (LOPD)), capturing SNVs, indels, splice, and structural variants. We identified pathogenic variants in 31 cases across seven PD-associated genes (GBA1, PRKN, PINK1, DJ1, SYNJ1, SNCA, and PLA2G6), giving a diagnostic rate of 27.6% in EOPD and 2.2% in LOPD. Seven of these variants were novel to Indian populations. GBA1 and PRKN were the most frequently mutated genes. Candidate genes with pathogenic variants were enriched in lysosomal pathways. Cases had significantly higher polygenic risk scores, supporting a polygenic contribution to PD risk. Our study establishes one of the first comprehensive sequencing-based resources for PD genetics in India, and underscores the need for large-scale genomic studies across diverse populations.© 2026. The Author(s).
Circular RNAs (circRNAs) are increasingly recognized as functional non-coding transcripts with oncogenic potential. Here, a comprehensive analysis of circRNA expression in primary ALK(+) anaplastic large-cell lymphoma (ALK( + ) ALCL) is presented. Integrated transcriptomic profiling revealed that aberrant expression of circZBTB46 and of its linear host transcript, normally restricted to dendritic cells, is exclusive to ALK(+) lymphoma cells and driven by the oncogenic NPM1::ALK/STAT3 axis. Functional studies showed that circZBTB46, unlike its protein-coding counterpart, promotes resistance to the ALK inhibitor crizotinib. Silencing circZBTB46 restored crizotinib sensitivity in resistant ALCL cells both in vitro and in vivo. Transcriptomic analyses identified PIP5K1C as a downstream effector regulated through a competitive endogenous RNA mechanism in which circZBTB46 acts as a sponge to miR-25-3p, alleviating its repression of PIP5K1C. These findings uncover a previously unrecognized mechanism of drug resistance in ALK( + ) ALCL and establish circZBTB46 as a promising therapeutic target.© 2026. The Author(s).
Moyamoya disease (MMD) is a progressive cerebrovascular disorder characterized by stenosis or occlusion of the terminal portions of the internal carotid arteries and their proximal branches, accompanied by the formation of abnormal collateral vessel networks. It represents a leading cause of ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke in both pediatric and adult populations. However, a comprehensive understanding of the molecular drivers underlying the hallmark vascular pathology of MMD remains elusive. Emerging evidence indicates that dysregulated lipid metabolism significantly contributes to MMD susceptibility and disease severity; nevertheless, its precise mechanistic roles in MMD pathogenesis have not been thoroughly investigated.We integrated three publicly available gene expression datasets comprising MMD patients and non-MMD controls (GSE189993, GSE157628, and GSE141024). Following rigorous batch-effect correction, differential expression analysis was performed to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), and machine learning approaches were then integrated to prioritize hub genes. Immune cell infiltration analysis was conducted for the identified hub genes. Subsequently, functional enrichment analysis, immune infiltration profiling, and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network construction were further performed. Validation was carried out using an independent external dataset (GSE249254) as well as in vitro experiments-including hypoxia-treated human endothelial cells and patient-derived tissue samples-to assess mRNA and protein expression levels. Finally, a Transcription Factor (TF)-miRNA-mRNA regulatory network was constructed, and potential therapeutic compounds targeting MMD were predicted via computational screening.A total of 2,288 DEGs were identified. GSEA revealed significant enrichment of pathways related to lipid metabolism and immune responses. WGCNA identified MMD-associated co-expression modules, and integrative machine learning prioritized four hub genes: LPIN3, PPT2, ACSS1, and INPPL1. A diagnostic nomogram built upon these four genes demonstrated robust predictive performance, with an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.91. Immune infiltration analysis revealed that the abundance of B cells in the MMD patient group was significantly lower than that in the control group, with statistical significance. Notably, LPIN3 expression was significantly upregulated in MMD. It was the only hub gene whose upregulation at the mRNA level was consistently validated in both the external validation set (GSE249254) and in vitro models. Subsequent immunohistochemical (IHC) experiments further corroborated this finding at the protein level, highlighting its potential as an independent biomarker. Furthermore, leveraging the hub gene network, seven candidate compounds with potential therapeutic relevance to MMD were predicted.This study delineates the immune-lipid metabolic transcriptomic characteristics of MMD, identifies novel molecular determinants of disease pathogenesis, and validates LPIN3 as a promising diagnostic biomarker. Collectively, these findings provide critical mechanistic insights into MMD etiology and offer a foundation for developing improved diagnostic strategies and targeted therapeutic interventions.Copyright © 2026 Lu, Qiu, Zhou, Li, Lu, Wang, Chen, Bian, Lin, Zhao, Zhao, Gao, Zhang, Chen, Li and Wang.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) has a poor prognosis and limited treatment options. This study investigated the role and mechanism of Jiedu Xiaozheng Yin (JXY) in HCC using network pharmacology and in vivo/in vitro experiments. Active components of JXY and their potential therapeutic targets for HCC were identified via network pharmacology. A protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was constructed to identify core targets, and bioinformatics analysis confirmed their association with HCC. LC-MS/MS was used to isolate major components, which were then subjected to molecular docking with core targets. The effects of JXY on HCC were further validated through in vivo and in vitro experiments. Analysis of 171 core target genes was performed using PPI network screening and enrichment analysis. Quercetin was identified as the primary active component of JXY. Molecular docking confirmed its interaction with CYP1A2, which is overexpressed in HCC tissues. In vivo, JXY and quercetin significantly increased CYP1A2 and PTEN expression, while decreasing p-PI3K and p-Akt levels in HCC-bearing mice, thereby suppressing tumor growth and lung metastasis and promoting apoptosis. In vitro, both JXY and quercetin inhibited HCC cell proliferation and migration. CYP1A2 knockdown partially reversed, while its overexpression enhanced, these inhibitory effects. Quercetin, the main active component of JXY, upregulates CYP1A2 to promote PTEN expression, thereby inhibiting the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway and suppressing HCC progression.© 2026. The Society for In Vitro Biology.
Antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs) are expanding treatment options in endometrial carcinoma, but the distribution of actionable surface targets across histologic, molecular, and genomic subgroups remains incompletely defined.This single-institution retrospective tissue microarray (TMA) study included 312 endometrial carcinomas: 158 endometrioid and 154 serous tumors. Trophoblast cell-surface antigen 2 (TROP2) was quantified by histochemical score (H-score); human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) was assessed using endometrial carcinoma-specific and gastric/DESTINY-PanTumor02 criteria; and folate receptor alpha (FRα) positivity was defined as ≥75% viable tumor cells with ≥2+ membranous staining. Molecular class was assigned using a hierarchical DNA polymerase epsilon (POLE)-mutant, microsatellite instability/mismatch repair-deficient (MSI/MMRd), p53-abnormal, and no specific molecular profile (NSMP) classifier. Tumor mutational burden (TMB) and recurrent genomic alterations were analyzed in relation to biomarker expression.TROP2 was broadly expressed, with median H-scores of 280 in endometrioid and 200 in serous carcinomas. HER2 gastric-score 2+/3+ expression and FRα positivity were enriched in serous versus endometrioid carcinoma (22.5% vs 8.9% and 20.1% vs 4.4%), restricted to FIGO grade 3 tumors, and concentrated in p53-abnormal disease. FRα positivity was absent in POLE-mutant and MSI/MMRd tumors. HER2 2+/3+ expression correlated with erb-b2 receptor tyrosine kinase 2 (ERBB2) alterations, whereas FRα-positive tumors were enriched for TP53 alterations and showed lower frequencies of ARID1A and PTEN alterations. Triple-negative TROP2/HER2/FRα tumors were uncommon (6/308, 1.9%).TROP2 is broadly expressed in endometrial carcinoma, whereas HER2 and FRα define a more restricted high-grade, serous/serous-like, p53-abnormal compartment, supporting biomarker-informed ADC development.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Gestational hypertension (GH) remains a major cause of maternal and fetal morbidity. miR-498 has been implicated in vascular dysfunction, yet its role and mechanism in GH remain unclear.Clinical serum samples from 106 GH patients and 82 healthy pregnant controls were collected to detect circulating miR-498 expression and analyze its correlation with clinical parameters. The dual-luciferase reporter assay was applied to confirm the direct binding between miR-498 and PTEN. All in vitro functional experiments, including CCK-8 proliferation assay, Transwell migration and invasion assays, were conducted exclusively in HUVECs.Hsa-miR-498-5p (miR-498) was significantly downregulated in serum of GH patients and presented favorable diagnostic performance. Circulating miR-498 levels were negatively correlated with systolic blood pressure and neonatal birth weight, while positively correlated with gestational age. Mechanistically, miR-498 directly targeted PTEN. miR-498 overexpression enhanced the proliferative, migratory and invasive capacities of HUVECs, and ectopic PTEN overexpression could reverse these cellular phenotypes.Downregulated miR-498 aggravates endothelial dysfunction and facilitates GH progression via inhibiting PTEN/AKT signaling. This study identifies circulating miR-498 as a promising non-invasive diagnostic biomarker and reveals a vascular-specific regulatory axis for GH.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Bruton's tyrosine kinase (BTK) is a clinically validated target for B-cell malignancies, yet covalent inhibitors are limited by acquired resistance and cumulative off-target toxicities. To address these challenges, we employed a scaffold-hopping strategy from larotinib, by integrating a benzoyl hydrazine pharmacophore into the 4-aminoquinoline scaffold to explore a potential non-covalent binding mode. Systematic optimization yielded compound 10m, which exhibited moderate but promising BTK inhibitory activity (IC50 = 126.70 ± 16.69 nM), acceptable kinase selectivity with reduced activity against key off-targets of ibrutinib (EGFR, ITK, BMX, TEC), and potent antiproliferative activity in U-937 cells (IC50 = 0.89 ± 0.01 μM). Western blot analysis confirmed dose-dependent suppression of BTK phosphorylation (Tyr223). Flow cytometry revealed G0/G1 cell cycle arrest and concentration-dependent apoptosis induction. In the U-937 xenograft model, 10m achieved 95.5% tumor growth inhibition at 100 mg/kg i.p. without significant toxicity. Molecular docking studies showed that 10m retains the binding mode of larotinib while forming additional hydrogen bonds, consistent with a reversible binding mode supported by docking and positioned away from Cys481. These results validate the design strategy and position 10m as a promising lead for next-generation non-covalent BTK inhibitors for the treatment of hematologic malignancies.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.
Early-onset, rapidly progressive, markedly asymmetric, or otherwise atypical scoliosis should prompt evaluation for an underlying genetic etiology. Variants in phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) are associated with macrocephaly and a broad spectrum of developmental phenotypes; however, their clinical relevance to severe atypical scoliosis remains infrequently described. This case highlights the potential diagnostic value of genetic evaluation in patients with atypical scoliosis accompanied by abnormal head growth.A 13-year-3-month-old boy presented with scoliosis that was first recognized at 9 years of age and subsequently progressed markedly. He exhibited early-onset, rapidly progressive, markedly asymmetric scoliosis accompanied by macrocephaly.Exome sequencing identified a heterozygous PTEN missense variant, NM_000314.8:c.276C>A (p.D92E), classified as pathogenic. Parental testing showed wild-type alleles in both parents, supporting a de novo origin. The overall findings were consistent with severe, rapidly progressive atypical scoliosis accompanied by macrocephaly and a de novo PTEN variant.Because the family declined surgical treatment, multimodal conservative management was initiated, consisting of a Chêneau brace worn for 21 hours per day, physiotherapeutic scoliosis-specific exercises for 2 hours per day, and adjunctive manual therapy.During the 12 months of follow-up, no further radiographic progression was observed, and the trunk appearance remained relatively stable. No major treatment-related adverse events were reported.Early genetic evaluation should be considered in patients with scoliosis characterized by early onset, rapid progression, marked asymmetry, and atypical curve patterns, particularly when accompanied by macrocephaly. A de novo PTEN variant may provide an important diagnostic clue in such cases. For patients with severe scoliosis harboring a PTEN variant who decline surgery, multimodal conservative treatment may serve as a bridging strategy to achieve short-term curve stability, while continued multidisciplinary assessment, genetic counseling, and long-term surveillance for potential PTEN-related manifestations remain essential.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42564966
Pleomorphic giant cell carcinoma (PGCC) of the prostate is an extremely rare and aggressive malignancy with limited treatment options. We present a case report of metastatic PGCC patients treated with 177Lu-PSMA-617 radioligand therapy (Pluvicto) after progression on standard therapies. Both patients had PSMA-avid tumors on imaging. Molecular profiling revealed mutations in hallmark tumor suppressors including TP53, RB1, and PTEN. Both patients initially experienced partial radiographic response, in which one patient achieved stable disease for 9 months posttherapy. These findings suggest that PSMA-radioligand therapy may be a reasonable treatment for PGCC patients, but underscore the need for additional therapeutic options.Copyright © 2026 John Y. Kwon et al. Case Reports in Urology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42564319 is a review article
The tumor immune microenvironment influences non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) progression and therapy response. Programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) is a key biomarker for immune checkpoint blockade, yet the genomic correlates of its expression status require elucidation.We analyzed 97 advanced lung adenocarcinoma patients, (13 cases-all from the PD-L1-unknown subgroup-excluded due to insufficient sequencing quality, leaving 84 cases for downstream analyses) categorized by PD-L1 expression (positive: n=32; negative: n=45; unknown: n=20). Genomic profiling was performed using a 95-gene targeted NGS panel. Analyses included mutational profiling, pathway enrichment (GO/KEGG), gene interaction patterns, and genomic complexity.The cohort was predominantly metastatic (99.0%). Dominant mutations were in EGFR(43.80%), TP53(38.02%), and KRAS(11.57%). PD-L1-positive tumors more frequently harbored EGFRE746_A750del, while TP53 mutations were enriched in PD-L1-negative cases. Somatic interaction analysis revealed significant EGFR/TP53 co-occurrence in PD-L1-positive tumors and TP53/RB1 co-occurrence in negative tumors. GO analysis showed PD-L1-positive tumors were enriched for kinase-related functions, reflecting a distinct EGFR-driven biology characterized by a striking 59.26% prevalence of EGFR mutations. KEGG analysis indicated immune pathway enrichment in this subgroup, supporting an oncogene-induced immune phenotype frequently synergized by TP53 co-alterations. In contrast, PD-L1-negative tumors correlated with co-mutation-prone, metabolism-oriented profiles and immune suppression. Mutual exclusivity patterns differed: in PD-L1-positive tumors, EGFRmutations were mutually exclusive with KRAS/NRAS/HRASmutations, suggesting a single dominant driver. PD-L1-negative tumors displayed more co-occurring alterations (e.g., TP53 with STK11 or PTEN). Furthermore, 24% of PD-L1-positive tumors had multiple concurrent alterations, a proportion significantly higher than in PD-L1-negative tumors (8%; P<0.05).This study delineates distinct genomic landscapes associated with PD-L1 expression. PD-L1-positive status is linked to an immune-active, kinase-signaling-driven phenotype with mutually exclusive drivers. PD-L1-negative status correlates with a more immunosuppressive, co-mutation-prone, and metabolism-oriented profile. These findings provide molecular insights into immune heterogeneity and may inform tailored combination therapies.Copyright © 2026 Huang, Yao, Zhang, Song, Wang, Zhao, Ji, Zhu, Zhao and Zhang.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42562963 is a review article
Background/Objectives: To date, approximately 360 pathogenic variants of the OCRL gene have been reported, including frameshift, substitution, gross inversion, nonsense, and missense mutations. These genetic alterations have been associated with a broad phenotypic spectrum of Lowe syndrome, contributing to considerable variability in disease severity and clinical presentation. Missense variants are typically associated with preserved messenger RNA expression in fibroblasts, whereas more deleterious mutations result in markedly reduced expression of the OCRL transcript or protein product. Pathogenic variants in the OCRL gene have also been identified in patients with Dent's disease type 2. Case presentation: This case report describes a pediatric male patient with autism spectrum disorder and renal dysfunction, who was found to harbor a variant of uncertain clinical significance in the OCRL gene and a pathogenic 16p11.2 chromosomal deletion. The patient, a 12-year-old boy with autism, presented with proteinuria during hospitalization for febrile gastroenteritis and streptococcal infection. Further evaluation revealed focal glomerulosclerosis, tubular calcium phosphate deposits, albuminuria, and hypercalciuria. Ophthalmologic examination additionally demonstrated bilateral lens opacities in the absence of congenital cataracts, as well as hyperopia. The coexistence of these clinical manifestations together with the identified OCRL gene variant raises the possibility of an atypical presentation of Dent disease type 2. Nevertheless, continued clinical and genetic follow-up remains warranted to further clarify the pathogenic significance of the detected variant and to establish a definitive diagnosis. Conclusions: The uniqueness of this case resides in the coexistence of two independent genetic findings presenting a phenotype-attribution challenge. Furthermore, the identified phenotype may warrant consideration as a possible previously unreported phenotypic presentation situated along the clinical spectrum between Lowe syndrome and Dent disease type 2. The main contribution of this report is to illustrate the interpretative challenges of a concurrent pathogenic 16p11.2 deletion and an OCRL variant of uncertain significance in a patient with renal disease and neurodevelopmental features.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42465034 is a review article
Nail-patella syndrome (NPS) is an autosomal dominant disorder caused by LMX1B mutations and typically associated with glomerular proteinuria. We report three brothers carrying a maternally inherited heterozygous LMX1B mutation (NM_001174147.2: c.309C > G (p.Cys103Trp)), all presenting with classical skeletal features of NPS. Two siblings developed early-onset proteinuria predominantly composed of low-molecular-weight proteins, hypercalciuria, and ophthalmologic abnormalities including cataracts and glaucoma; one also exhibited nephrocalcinosis. Further genetic analysis identified a hemizygous OCRL pathogenic mutation (NM_000276.4: c.2209G > A (p.Glu737Lys)) in the two affected brothers but not in the third sibling, who had no renal involvement. This intrafamilial discordance supports a dual genetic diagnosis. Our findings emphasize the importance of reconsidering the initial diagnosis when clinical features are atypical and highlight the value of comprehensive genetic testing in patients with unusual renal presentations.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to International Pediatric Nephrology Association.
Congenital glaucoma is the leading cause of vision loss in patients with Lowe syndrome (LS), a rare X-linked disease caused by mutations in the OCRL gene. OCRL encodes an inositol polyphosphate 5-phosphatase. Despite significant research efforts, the pathogenesis of glaucoma caused by OCRL deficiency remains unclear, partly due to the inaccessibility of patient-derived ocular cells.The study design is a comparative cell-based study focused on the functional characterization of induced human trabecular meshwork (iHTM) cell lines.Two induced LS pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) lines, previously isolated and generated from an LS patient family, were differentiated into trabecular meshwork cells. LS100 is an affected LS patient; LS200 is an unaffected healthy sibling. Patient-based trabecular meshwork (iHTM) cell models were generated. Both stem cell and trabecular meshwork markers were evaluated by both immunoblot as well as immunostaining analysis.Induced trabecular meshwork cells expressed TM cell markers such as collagen IV, accompanied by the loss of pluripotency markers like OCT4. TM-like responses upon dexamethasone challenge included increased cross-linked actin network formation. The phagocytic function of TM cells was demonstrated by fluorescent labeling phagocytosis assay. Immunostaining revealed that compared to LS200-iHTM, LS100-iHTM had shortened primary cilia. This defect was further supported by reduced Gli1 protein expression in LS100-iHTM. Immunostaining of LAMP1, a lysosome marker, showed greater perinuclear lysosome clustering in LS100-iHTM than LS200-iHTM, indicating potentially dysfunctional nutrient sensing in the patient-derived iHTM cells.We established two iHTM cell lines derived from iPSCs of an LS patient and his healthy sibling. Functional characterization of both cell lines showed that OCRL deficiency in LS altered downstream pathways related to phagocytosis, primary ciliogenesis, and lysosome positioning. iHTM cells function like TM cells and retain LS-associated defects, highlighting their potential as in vitro models for future mechanistic and therapeutic studies.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Genetic variants are the leading cause of congenital cataract (CC). To date, numerous genes have been implicated in the development of CC. The objective of the present study was to report two previously unrecognized gene variants associated with CC in two unrelated Chinese families, identified through whole exome sequencing (WES).Two unrelated Chinese families affected by CC were recruited. Cytogenetic and molecular genetic analyses were performed using karyotyping, chromosomal microarray analysis (CMA), and WES. In addition, RNA sequencing was conducted to assess differentially expressed genes in affected individuals compared with healthy controls.Karyotype and CMA elicited none of chromosome abnormalities in both of the families. However, WES revealed a novel missense variant NM_006891.4:c.154 T > C(p.S52P) in the CRYGD gene in the proband of Family 1, which was inherited from her mother with CC. In Family 2, a novel frameshift variant NM_000276.4:c.1046dup(p.M349Ifs∗36) in the OCRL gene was identified in the fetus via WES, which was inherited from the mother who had CC. RNA sequencing further demonstrated significantly reduced OCRL mRNA expression in the fetus compared with age-matched controls.The present study reports, for the first time, two novel variants in CRYGD and OCRL that were identified in the Chinese families with CC. These findings may expand the mutational spectrum of CC and highlight the utility of WES for the genetic diagnosis of patients with CC.Copyright © 2026 Jianlong Zhuang et al. Human Mutation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Dent disease is a hereditary kidney tubular disorder caused by pathogenic variants in either the CLCN5 (Dent disease 1) or OCRL1 (Dent disease 2) genes. As a rare genetic disorder, Dent disease often presents with variable clinical manifestations, leading to frequent misdiagnosis or underdiagnosis, especially in milder cases. Consequently, limited research has addressed the long-term clinical outcomes of Dent disease.This retrospective multicenter cohort study was conducted at 9 hospitals in Korea. A total of 48 male patients from 44 unrelated families with genetically confirmed Dent disease were enrolled, and their clinical phenotypes, and genetic backgrounds were assessed.The median age at diagnosis for Dent disease was 6.8 years, and 42 patients were diagnosed with Dent disease 1. At diagnosis, 17 patients (37.0%) demonstrated the classic triad of Dent disease features, whereas 12 patients (26.1%) presented solely with isolated low-molecular-weight proteinuria. During follow-up, whereas all patients maintained low-molecular-weight proteinuria, hypercalciuria, nephrocalcinosis, and nephrolithiasis occurred in 82.6%, 56.5%, and 8.3% of patients, respectively. The cases with Dent disease 2 had a higher rate of hypophosphatemia and significant proteinuria compared to Dent disease 1. A negative correlation was identified between hypercalciuria and age in the overall Dent disease cohort. The decline rate of annual estimated glomerular filtration rate was 0.6 mL/min/1.73 m2, without the case of kidney failure. At last follow-up, kidney dysfunction was present in 39.5% of cases.Due to its rarity and phenotype variability, Dent disease is frequently under-recognized by clinicians. As over one-third of patients progress to chronic kidney disease by early adulthood, a high index of clinical suspicion and early genetic testing are essential, alongside rigorous monitoring of kidney function.© 2026. The Author(s).
Muscle biopsy has long been regarded as the cornerstone for diagnosing pediatric muscular disorders; however, it is invasive and may be limited by sampling error and inconclusive histopathological findings. This study aimed to evaluate whether whole-exome sequencing (WES) can effectively replace muscle biopsy as a first-line diagnostic approach in children with suspected neuromuscular disorders. Between January 2018 and December 2025, we prospectively enrolled 47 pediatric patients presenting with clinical features suggestive of muscular disorders at a tertiary medical center in Taiwan. The cohort included patients with suspected muscular dystrophies (n = 21), congenital myopathies (n = 23), and multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA)-negative Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD; n = 3). All patients underwent WES as the initial diagnostic test without prior muscle biopsy. Trio-based analysis using parental samples was performed in 29.8% of cases. Variant interpretation followed the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics (ACMG) guidelines. WES identified a definitive molecular diagnosis in 72.3% of patients (34/47). Diagnostic yields varied by subgroup: 100% (3/3) in MLPA-negative DMD, 71.4% (15/21) in muscular dystrophies, and 69.6% (16/23) in congenital myopathies. Pathogenic or likely pathogenic variants were detected in 31 distinct genes, including COL6A1 and COL6A3, which are associated with Ullrich congenital muscular dystrophy. Notably, 58.8% of diagnosed patients (20/34) received molecular diagnoses that differed from their initial clinical impression, encompassing conditions such as ZSWIM6-associated neurodevelopmental disorders, GJB2-related hearing loss, OCRL-associated Lowe syndrome, and various metabolic or syndromic disorders. In all three MLPA-negative DMD cases, WES identified point mutations amenable to mutation-specific therapies. No patient required a muscle biopsy for diagnostic confirmation during the study period. First-tier WES demonstrates high diagnostic utility in pediatric muscular disorders while avoiding invasive muscle biopsy. The high rate of diagnostic reclassification underscores the substantial phenotypic overlap between primary neuromuscular diseases and other neurological or systemic conditions. These findings support the early implementation of genetic testing to enable accurate diagnosis and timely initiation of targeted therapies.
Dent disease (DD) is an X-linked recessive renal disorder characterized by features of incomplete Fanconi syndrome. DD varies in clinical presentation, manifesting with proteinuria alone or in combination with nephrocalcinosis/nephrolithiasis, and with or without chronic kidney disease, posing a challenge to clinical diagnosis. The genetic basis of DD is not completely known; about 25-35% of DD cases lack mutations in the disease-causing CLCN5 and OCRL genes. This case report represents a rare example of a patient initially suspected of having DD, but through whole exome sequencing (WES) was found to harbor pathogenic variants in the WT1 and EVC2 genes, suggesting a dual-genetic etiology mimicking DD.We describe a young man with a renal phenotype resembling DD associated with nephrotic syndrome, focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS), tubular microcysts, and a significant family history of kidney disease. Also present was an extrarenal phenotype with short stature, narrow chest, recurrent upper respiratory tract infections, teeth anomalies and hypertension. We identified in the WT1 gene the heterozygous ultrarare missense variant (NM_024426.6:c.1088C>T p.Thr363Met), classified as a variant of uncertain significance, and in the EVC2 gene the heterozygous nonsense variant (NM_147127.5:c.2833C>T p.Arg945Ter), classified as pathogenic. The clinical phenotype combines WT1-related FSGS with a rare tubular phenotype of Ellis-van Creveld-like syndrome (EVC).This case report provides insights into the phenotypic complexity of hereditary nephropathies and the diagnostic challenge posed by overlapping glomerular and tubular presentations. WES enabled us to expand our knowledge of the genetics of kidney diseases in adults and to reclassify the patient's nephropathy.© 2025 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
BACKGROUND: A prominent feature of Dent disease (DD) is the progressive decline in renal function, with 30% - 80% of male patients advancing to end-stage renal disease between the ages of 30 and 50 years. However, limited research exists on the chronic kidney disease (CKD) progression in pediatric patients with DD. This study aimed to retrospectively analyze the clinical features, genetic variant spectrum, and prognosis of pediatric patients with DD and explore the factors associated with early renal failure during childhood in these patients. METHODS: We analyzed the genetic backgrounds, clinical phenotypes, and laboratory data of 23 unrelated patients with DD. RESULTS: All patients were males with low-molecular-weight proteinuria. CLCN5 variants were detected in 19 patients (Dent disease type 1, DD1), and OCRL variants were identified in 4 patients (Dent disease type 2, DD2). Sixteen mutations have not been reported previously. During follow-up, progression to CKD was documented in 7 patients: 6 with DD1 and 1 with DD2. CKD stages were distributed as follows: 4 patients at stage II, 2 at stage III, and 1 at stage V. Nephrolithiasis (100% vs 30.76%, P = 0.011), nephrocalcinosis (85.33% vs 15.38%, P = 0.010), and acute kideny injury (100% vs 0%, P < 0.001) were significantly more common in those CKD patients with DD1. CONCLUSION: This study expands the genetic spectrum of Dent disease and highlights that some pediatric patients may progress to CKD during childhood. CKD progression may be associated with early occurrences of nephrolithiasis, nephrocalcinosis, and acute kidney injury.
Cervical cancer (CESC) is a major gynecological malignancy, and abnormalities in phosphoinositide metabolism (PPM) are closely linked to tumor progression. This study aimed to screen phosphoinositide metabolism-related genes (PPM-RGs) with prognostic value for CESC and explore their molecular mechanisms and clinical significance.CESC transcriptomic datasets and PPM-RGs were retrieved from public databases. Differentially expressed genes were intersected with PPM-RGs to obtain candidate genes. Prognostic genes were screened via univariate Cox regression and proportional hazards assumption test, and a risk model was constructed using random survival forest (RSF). Independent prognostic analysis and nomogram establishment were performed, followed by pathway enrichment, immune infiltration, somatic mutation and single-cell analyses to characterize the tumor microenvironment. Immunohistochemical staining was used to verify the protein expression of key genes in CESC tissues.Twenty candidate genes were initially identified, and two protective prognostic genes VAC14 and INPP5K were finally determined. The risk model showed favorable predictive performance with area under the curve (AUC) over 0.7, and high-risk patients had poorer survival. The nomogram combining risk score and M stage presented high accuracy. The high-risk group exhibited distinct pathway enrichment, altered immune infiltration and low somatic mutation rates. Monocytes were identified as potential key cells with impaired communication and differentiation in CESC. Immunohistochemistry confirmed downregulated expression of the two genes in CESC epithelial cells.VAC14 and INPP5K were PPM-related prognostic genes for CESC. Monocytes played critical roles in CESC progression. The risk model and nomogram aided prognosis prediction, providing new insights for CESC treatment.© 2026. The Author(s).
Osteosarcoma is the malignant bone neoplasm affecting pediatric and adolescent with unsatisfactory five-year survival. Dysregulated phospholipid metabolism is crucial for membrane integrity, signaling, and energy homeostasis, contributinga range of cancers' progression. Nevertheless, itsrolein osteosarcoma persists uncertain. The investigation aims to identify phospholipid metabolism-related signature genes for osteosarcoma and evaluate their prognostic value and therapeutic potential.The data curated from the TARGET and GEO databases. Differential expression analysis, LASSO, and SVM-RFE screened feature genes. A Cox regression-based prognostic model was established and validated internally (survival analysis, ROC) and externally, assessing discrimination and calibration. Analyses of the tumor microenvironment composition, immunocyte infiltration, and drug sensitivity and key findings were validatedin vitro.A risk model incorporating seven prognostic genes was constructed and confirmed using univariate Cox regression. High-risk patients showed markedly reduced overall survival(P < 0.001). ROC curves validated the predictive power of risk model (AUCs > 0.81 at 1, 3, and 5 years). Single-cell sequencing uncovered a linkage between genes and immunocyte infiltration. Risk scores covaried with infiltration extent and immune pathway activity. Metabolomic analysis of five phospholipid-related genes revealed tumor-associated metabolite differences. In vitro, Vorinostat strongly induced Osteosarcoma cell apoptosis and upregulated VAC14 protein expression.The phospholipid metabolism-based risk model aids Osteosarcoma prognosis. The immune microenvironment and drug sensitivity lay the groundwork for future mechanistic investigations. VAC14 is a potential target for neoadjuvant therapy, highlighting phospholipid metabolism as a promising therapeutic avenue.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Ethanol stress in Saccharomyces cerevisiae induces a rapid morphological transition in the vacuole from a multilobed (2-3 lobes) structure to a unilobed form. This change reflects a shift in the dynamic equilibrium between vacuolar fusion and fission, towards fusion. The process is mediated by inhibition of the fission machinery, as cells pre-conditioned with ethanol retain enlarged vacuoles even upon subsequent exposure to vacuole fission-inducing agents, indicating a block in vacuole fragmentation. This inhibition is progressive, as prolonged ethanol exposure results in an increasingly pronounced fission block. The underlying mechanism involves the downregulation of Fab1, a lipid kinase responsible for synthesizing phosphatidylinositol-3,5-bisphosphate (PtdIns(3,5)P₂), a key phospholipid regulator facilitating vacuole fission. Ethanol-induced modulation of PtdIns(3,5)P₂ pools is indicated by the redistribution of this lipid's sensor away from the vacuole membrane. This redistribution is prevented in the presence of the hyperactive mutant Fab1*, which produces elevated PtdIns(3,5)P₂. The concomitant delayed vacuole enlargement under ethanol stress in cells expressing Fab1* supports ethanol-induced suppression of PtdIns(3,5)P₂ levels. Reduced levels of PtdIns(3,5)P₂ promote dissociation of this lipid's effector, Atg18, from the vacuole membrane. There is also uncoupling of Atg18 from the Fab1 complex via disrupted interaction with the Vac14 scaffold. Further, ethanol exposure induces differential phosphorylation of Atg18, thereby altering its affinity for PtdIns(3,5)P₂. Consequently, ethanol rapidly remodels vacuole morphology by simultaneously reducing PtdIns(3,5)P₂ abundance and weakening effector-lipid interactions. This concerted mechanism ensures a rapid inhibition of vacuole fission in the presence of ethanol.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier GmbH.
Phosphatidylinositol 3,5-bisphosphate [PI(3,5)P2] is a lysosomal signaling lipid whose deficiency, caused by mutations in the PIKfyve complex subunits FIG4 or VAC14, underlies a spectrum of fatal neurologic diseases including Charcot-Marie-Tooth type 4J (CMT4J) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). To map the molecular consequences of PI(3,5)P2 insufficiency in the brain, we performed quantitative proteomic and transcriptomic analyses of three mouse lines bearing distinct loss-of-function mutations in Fig4 or Vac14, examining the brain at the presymptomatic and end stages. Strikingly, profound neuroinflammation was already present at postnatal day 5 (before significant neurodegeneration), characterized by complement activation, interferon signaling, and parenchymal infiltration of peripheral myeloid cells and T-cells. Isolated mutant microglia exhibited a markedly pro-oxidative transcriptional state with elevated reactive oxygen species, a partly non-cell-autonomous phenotype, being present in microglia from mice with conditional Fig4 inactivation in just neurons and astrocytes. Comparison of early (P5) and late (P25) proteomics data revealed that PI(3,5)P2 insufficiency impairs developmental remodeling of the brain proteome: proteins typically upregulated during postnatal maturation failed to accumulate, implicating lysosomal function in neurodevelopment. We identify coordinated elevation of p53, Fas receptor, inflammatory caspases, Gasdermin D, RIPK1, and ZBP1, consistent with multifactorial inflammatory cell death with features of apoptosis, pyroptosis, and necroptosis. Many of the dysregulated proteins are encoded by genes mutated in lysosomal storage disorders, ALS, CMT, Alzheimer's and Parkinson diseases, extending the pathogenic relevance of PI(3,5)P2 insufficiency. Together, these findings establish that early neuroinflammation is a defining - and likely initiating - feature of neurodegeneration caused by disruption of lysosomal PI(3,5)P2.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The high prevalence of cancer immunotherapy resistance, coupled with substantial tumor heterogeneity, underscores the urgent need for innovative therapeutic targets. A deeper understanding of immunoregulatory mechanisms would provide new targets and combination therapeutic strategies for tumor therapy. In this study, we demonstrate that HSD17B12 enhances anti-tumor immunity and represents a promising therapeutic target. Mechanistically, HSD17B12 promotes lysosome-dependent degradation of PD-L1 via the VAC14 and ESCRT complexes across various malignancies, regardless of its 3-ketoacyl-CoA reductase activity. HSD17B12-deficient cells displayed PD-L1 accumulation in both tumor cells and exosomes, reducing T cell-mediated cytotoxicity. Notably, we found a significant negative correlation between HSD17B12 and PD-L1 expression in colorectal cancer tissues. Furthermore, high HSD17B12 expression in CRC correlated with increased infiltration of cytotoxic T cells. Based on these findings, we designed a peptide, HSD-CC1-NPGY, which effectively reduces PD-L1 expression in cells and suppresses tumor growth in a mouse model. Overall, our results establish HSD17B12 as an important regulator of anti-tumor immunity and a promising therapeutic target for cancer treatment.Copyright: © 2026 Zhou et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
•Blepharoclonus is defined as a brief clonic contraction of bilateral orbicularis oculi muscles on voluntary eye closure.•NBIA disorders like PKAN, PLAN and Kufor Rakeb disease have shown its association with blepharoclonus.•With this report, VAC14 can also be added to the phenotype spectrum.© 2025 The Author(s).
Lysosomes are essential organelles that regulate cellular homeostasis through complex membrane interactions. Phosphoinositide lipids play critical roles in orchestrating these functions by recruiting specific proteins to organelle membranes. The PIKfyve/Fig4/Vac14 complex regulates PI(3,5)P₂ metabolism, and intriguingly, while loss-of-function mutations cause neurodegeneration, acute PIKfyve inhibition shows therapeutic potential in neurodegenerative disorders. We demonstrate that PIKfyve/Fig4/Vac14 dysfunction triggers a compensatory response where reduced mTORC1 activity leads to ULK1-dependent trafficking of ATG9A and PI4KIIα from the TGN to lysosomes. This increases lysosomal PI(4)P, facilitating cholesterol and phosphatidylserine transport at ER-lysosome contacts to promote membrane repair. Concurrently, elevated lysosomal PI(4)P recruits ORP1L to ER-lysosome-mitochondria three-way contacts, enabling PI(4)P transfer to mitochondria that drives ULK1-dependent fragmentation and increased respiration. These findings reveal a role for PIKfyve/Fig4/Vac14 in coordinating lysosomal repair and mitochondrial homeostasis, offering insights into cellular stress responses.© 2025. The Author(s).
Exploring novel antifungal mechanisms is needed because of the side effects of existing treatments and the increasing prevalence of drug resistance. We recently reported that inhibition of the endocytic pathway via a lysosome inhibitor or Fab1/Vac14 suppression enhances the localization of emerald green fluorescent protein-bound β-1,3-glucanase (BGL2-EmGFP) at the tip in Saccharomyces cerevisiae INVSc1, used as a non-pathogenic model. Overexpression of wild-type BGL2-EmGFP, but not an inactive mutant, completely abolished cell proliferation, suggesting that impairing tip growth through dysregulated glucanase activity represents a novel antifungal mechanism. In this study, using a phenotypic screening strategy combining fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC)-dextran endocytosis/exocytosis assays with BGL2-EmGFP localization analysis, Dioscorea tokoro Makino extract was found to induce dysregulation of the endocytic pathway and promote BGL2-EmGFP localization at the tip, accompanied by growth inhibition in S. cerevisiae INVSc1. These findings suggest that this phenotypic screening strategy provides a promising approach based on a novel antifungal mechanism involving endocytic dysregulation and enhanced BGL2 localization at the tip.Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier B.V.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 40888261
Soft X-ray tomography (SXT) is an invaluable tool for quantitatively analyzing cellular structures at suboptical isotropic resolution. However, it has traditionally depended on manual segmentation, limiting its scalability for large datasets. Here, we leverage a deep learning-based autosegmentation pipeline to segment and label cellular structures in hundreds of cells across three Saccharomyces cerevisiae strains. This task-based pipeline uses manual iterative refinement to improve segmentation accuracy for key structures, including the cell body, nucleus, vacuole, and lipid droplets, enabling high-throughput and precise phenotypic analysis. Using this approach, we quantitatively compared the three-dimensional (3D) whole-cell morphometric characteristics of wild-type, VPH1-GFP, and vac14 strains, uncovering detailed strain-specific cell and organelle size and shape variations. We show the utility of SXT data for precise 3D curvature analysis of entire organelles and cells and detection of fine morphological features using surface meshes. Our approach facilitates comparative analyses with high spatial precision and statistical throughput, uncovering subtle morphological features at the single-cell and population level. This workflow significantly enhances our ability to characterize cell anatomy and supports scalable studies on the mesoscale, with applications in investigating cellular architecture, organelle biology, and genetic research across diverse biological contexts.
X-linked centronuclear myopathy (XLCNM) is a rare neuromuscular disorder that poses significant diagnostic and treatment challenges, particularly in neonates. We present a case of a male infant born at 36 weeks of gestation, weighing 2.1 kg, who was admitted 51 min after birth due to severe asphyxia and low birth weight. Following an emergency cesarean section, the infant required resuscitation, including tracheal intubation and medication administration. Initial evaluations indicated severe respiratory distress and low muscle tone, along with various clinical abnormalities. Laboratory tests suggested potential infection and metabolic distress. Despite comprehensive intensive care, including mechanical ventilation, anti-infection regimens, and nutritional support, the infant continued to experience respiratory difficulties without improvement. Genetic testing via whole exome sequencing identified a rare variant in the MTM1 gene, confirming the diagnosis of XLCNM with an X-linked recessive inheritance pattern. Unfortunately, after extensive treatment and family discussions, the infant's condition failed to stabilize, leading to the difficult decision to withdraw therapy, resulting in the patient's passing. This case underscores the urgent need for early recognition of XLCNM and the critical role of genetic counseling for affected families.© 2026 Liao, Jiang, Zhong, Luo, Qiu, Pan, Gan and Zhong.
Macroautophagy/autophagy is a key regulator of muscle mass and of muscle adaptation to stress and defective autophagy is a feature of many muscle disorders. Still, how changes in autophagic flux influence the integrity and function of differentiated muscle fibers remains under-documented. Specifically, links between autophagy and mechanisms involved in Ca2+ homeostasis and excitation-contraction coupling are largely unexplored. We developed an assay to monitor autophagy modulation in mouse muscle fibers maintained in culture. Exposure to 3-methyladenine, an inhibitor of autophagy initiation, reduced the density of autophagic vesicles. Conversely, hydroxychloroquine, a blocker of autolysosome formation, as well as two MTOR inhibitors that activate autophagy, rapamycin and torin-1, enhanced the vesicle density. The density of lysosomal vesicles was increased by MTOR inhibitors and by hydroxychloroquine, but insensitive to 3-methyladenine. Measurements of Ca2+ signals associated with contractile activation revealed that voltage-activated sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ release was unaffected by torin-1 but was depressed in 3-methyladenine- and in hydroxychloroquine-exposed fibers, suggesting that restraining autophagic flux is detrimental to excitation contraction coupling. The density of the inner plasma membrane network that carries the electrical excitation was depressed by 3-methyladenine and hydroxychloroquine, likely contributing to the function defect. Results establish that autophagic flux is preserved and can be manipulated in cultured muscle fibers, and revealed the power of the approach to tackle the cellular and subcellular consequences of autophagy modulation. They also uncover the possibility that autophagy is a determinant of maintenance and/or function of excitation-contraction coupling, with a potential role in several muscle disease situations.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; EC: excitation-contraction; HCQ: hydroxychloroquine; MTM1: myotubularin 1; RYR1: ryanodine receptor 1.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42201138 is a review article
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a highly aggressive and heterogeneous malignancy with a poor prognosis. Mitochondria and programmed cell death (PCD) play crucial roles in CRC tumorigenesis and cancer progression. However, the prognostic significance of mitochondrial programmed cell death (MPCD) remains unclear. This study aims to investigate prognostic value of MPCD-related genes.CRC patient data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and MPCD gene sets from previous studies were collected. A prognostic model based on MPCD-related genes was developed using regression analysis and validated using an external CRC cohort from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO). Immune microenvironment of the two risk cohorts was evaluated using ssGSEA and CIBERSORT algorithms. Potential anti-tumor drugs targeting model genes were predicted using pRRophetic R package. In addition, CRC-related cell lines were collected, and functional tests were conducted on the key risk gene SRPX.A prognostic model comprising 13 MPCD genes (ACSL6, ELANE, G6PC2, ITGB3, MTM1, NAT1, PLAU, SCG2, SLC7A11, SMPD1, SRPX, TPM1, TRAP1) was successfully constructed, which demonstrated stable prognostic performance across different CRC cohorts. Immune infiltration analysis revealed significant enrichment of Tregs and Tfh cells in the high-MPCD cohort, suggesting that immune tolerance may contribute to the poor prognosis in this group. Three candidate drugs-CGP-60474, WH-4-023, and Trametinib-were identified as having significant negative correlations with model genes SRPX, SCG2, and SMPD1. Cell experiments demonstrated that overexpression of SRPX significantly inhibited the migration and invasion abilities of HCT116 cells.This study developed an independent and reliable MPCD-related prognostic model. The model provides new targets for personalized risk assessment and immunotherapeutic interventions in CRC.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Federación de Sociedades Españolas de Oncología (FESEO).
Centronuclear myopathies (CNMs) are rare congenital disorders characterized by muscle weakness, fiber hypotrophy, and organelle mislocalization. Most cases arise from mutations in MTM1 or DNM2, encoding myotubularin and dynamin-2, respectively. DNM2 is a GTPase that binds lipids, oligomerizes around membranes, and mediates fission. We previously showed that DNM2 levels are elevated in MTM1-CNM patients and Mtm1-/y mice, and that normalizing DNM2 rescues disease phenotypes. However, the specific DNM2 functions driving pathology remain unclear. Here, we expressed AAV-delivered WT and DNM2 mutants in WT and Mtm1-/y mouse muscles to disrupt specific DNM2 molecular functions. In WT mice, overexpression of WT DNM2 and most mutants induced CNM-like phenotypes, including reduced force, fiber hypotrophy, and centralized nuclei, consistent with gain-of-function mechanisms. The lipid-binding-defective mutant K562E did not induce disease-like phenotype. In Mtm1-/y mice, K562E mutant markedly improved muscle force, mass, and fiber size, while others failed to rescue. Therefore, we generated Mtm1-/y Dnm2K562E/+ mice, which showed full rescue of survival, motor function, and muscle force, with improved muscle mass, fiber size, and organelle positioning despite persistently elevated DNM2 levels. This study reveals that DNM2 lipid binding, not protein abundance or GTPase activity, drives pathology, and represents the most rational therapeutic target for DNM2 therapy in MTM1-CNM.
X-linked myotubular myopathy (XLMTM) is a severe, rare, familial neuromuscular disease caused by mutations in the MTM1 gene. XLMTM presents a wide spectrum of clinical manifestations, including neuromuscular symptoms such as hypotonia and severe generalised muscle weakness, which lead to respiratory and orthopaedic complications; and extramuscular manifestations such as hepatobiliary and gastrointestinal involvement. As there is no curative treatment for XLMTM, and given the complications associated with the disease and its high morbidity and mortality, survival and quality of life in these patients rely on a comprehensive, multidisciplinary approach.A group of paediatric neurologists, one pulmonologist, one hepatologist, one intensivist, and rehabilitation specialists from Spain and Portugal with in-depth understanding and experience in XLMTM management present a multicentre series of 24 patients with XLMTM and problems and experience on its clinical management.Severe phenotypes showed significant neuromuscular and non-neuromuscular involvement. Multidisciplinary management, including respiratory support, nutritional interventions, and rehabilitation, is essential. Unmet needs include better neurocognitive assessment tools, improved access to multidisciplinary care, and resources for physical therapy. Communication aids are crucial for patient development.Multidisciplinary management of XLMTM is essential for improving outcomes, with significant unmet needs in several areas of clinical care.Copyright © 2025 Sociedad Española de Neurología. Published by Elsevier España, S.L.U. All rights reserved.
Data on respiratory, feeding, ambulatory outcomes and prognostic factors for congenital myopathies (CM) and congenital muscular dystrophies (CMD) remain limited. Therefore, in this study, we report the characteristics of a large single-center cohort of patients with CM and CMD, focusing on long-term outcomes and aiming to identify factors associated with invasive ventilation, feeding tube, and wheelchair dependence.Patients with a diagnosis of CM or CMD evaluated at Children's Health Dallas between 2011 and 2024 were identified using ICD codes and their medical records were reviewed. Genetic, clinical, histopathologic, electrodiagnostic, imaging and laboratory data were collected.There were 145 patients, with the most common genes being RYR1 (29), COL6A1/2/3 (16), MTM1 (16), TTN (15), LAMA2 (14), NEB (12). Of 128 patients above 3 years old, 65 (51%) were ambulatory. Thirty-three of 145 (23%) required invasive ventilation and 50 of 145 (34%) had a feeding tube. The causative gene significantly correlated with ventilation (Cramer's V 0.46, moderate effect, p < 0.001) and feeding tube (Cramer's V 0.48, moderate effect, p < 0.001) dependence, whereas contractures in multiple joints correlated with wheelchair dependence across the cohort (Cramer's V 0.58, large effect, p < 0.001).In this study, the causative gene was the major driver of ventilation and feeding support whereas multiple joint contractures correlated with wheelchair dependence. These results may help guide clinicians in counseling families on respiratory, feeding and ambulatory outcomes; however, prospective multicenter studies are needed to confirm the findings and identify additional prognostic factors.© 2026 The Author(s). Muscle & Nerve published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
X-linked centronuclear myopathy (XLCNM) is a rare congenital neuromuscular disorder caused by pathogenic variants in MTM1, typically presenting with severe neonatal hypotonia, respiratory failure, and poor survival. Early diagnosis is essential for prognosis and genetic counseling, though clinical recognition is often challenging.We report a male infant, born at 38 + 1 weeks via cesarean section, who presented immediately after birth with apnea, cyanosis, hypotonia, and poor responsiveness. Despite resuscitation and intensive care for neonatal asphyxia and sepsis, he remained ventilator-dependent with persistent hypotonia and feeding difficulties. Laboratory evaluation showed anemia of chronic disease, hypoproteinemia, vitamin D insufficiency, and mild hepatic dysfunction. Imaging revealed laryngomalacia and a patent foramen ovale. Given the family history of neonatal death in a male sibling, whole-exome sequencing (WES) was performed and identified a hemizygous nonsense mutation in MTM1 (NM_000252.2): c.373C > T (p.Gln125Ter), confirming XLCNM. Maternal heterozygosity was verified by Sanger sequencing, consistent with X-linked recessive inheritance. In view of the severe clinical course and poor prognosis, the family declined further treatment. The patient was discharged for palliative care and died shortly after from respiratory failure.This case reveals the importance of early recognition and genetic diagnosis of XLCNM, particularly in neonates with unexplained hypotonia and a suggestive family history. Through our literature review, we emphasize the need for heightened clinical awareness, summarize current therapeutic and research advances, and discusses supportive strategies that may optimize survival and quality of life in affected infants.© 2026 Chen and Zou.
X-linked myotubular myopathy (XLMTM) is a rare genetic disorder that typically presents at birth with progressive muscle weakness and respiratory difficulties and is caused by myotubularin 1 (MTM1) gene mutations. Here, we examine the role of phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate 3-kinase catalytic subunit type 2-β (PIK3C2B), a lipid kinase that interacts with MTM1, in XLMTM in various models. We examined the effect of BLU3797, a highly potent, selective, orally bioavailable PIK3C2B inhibitor, on survival, muscle development, myofiber phenotypes, and gene expression in MTM1-/y mice. PIK3C2B-deficient XLMTM animals demonstrated increased survival, restored muscle function, fewer myofibers with centralized nuclei, and normalization of disease-associated molecular markers. BLU3797 alleviated the XLMTM phenotype in a dose-dependent and reversible manner. Loss of functional PIK3C2B in XLMTM mice promoted a more differentiated, adult-like myofiber profile, which was strongly associated with normalization of disease surrogates and a reduction in markers of early muscle development and regeneration. BLU3797 treatment appears to modulate the expression of miRNAs associated with satellite cell activation and myofiber fusion. These findings indicate that PIK3C2B inhibition with BLU3797 effectively reverses the XLMTM disease phenotype by enhancing muscle function and promoting development toward a more mature state.
Genetic mutations can lead to miscarriages, perinatal deaths, and abnormalities in fetal development. Sometimes, the regular prenatal test cannot identify some rare diseases, but whole-exome sequencing can be performed. Whole-exome sequencing testing is not a routine prenatal test unless there is a family history or a history of adverse pregnancy due to a genetic disorder.We reported a case of stillbirth caused by a rare genetic disease, secondary to an MTM1 gene mutation. It was found to have no abnormality during childbirth; even electronic fetal monitoring showed no signs of fetal distress. However, delivery concluded with a stillborn birth, and the offspring having no crying, poor muscle tone, and pale skin. Due to the unclear cause of stillbirth, the patient requested further diagnostic genetic testing to identify a cause. The MTM1 gene hemizygous variant was detected by whole-exome sequencing.Stillbirth due to genetic mutations may not be detected by non-invasive prenatal testing or chromosome copy number variant analysis. Broad Next-Generation Sequencing, such as whole-exome sequencing, has the potential to identify genetic causes that are missed by non-invasive prenatal testing or chromosomal microarray. The indications for the whole-exome sequencing test for pregnant women may need further discussion.Copyright © 2026 Zhu, Li, Wu, Yao, Qie and Sun.
A 70-year-old man undergoing treatment for immunoglobulin G4-related disease developed a liver mass on computed tomography during routine imaging examination. The tumor was located in the hepatic S1/4 region, was 38 mm in size, and showed arterial enhancement on dynamic contrast-enhanced computed tomography. We performed a liver biopsy and diagnosed moderately differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma. The patient underwent proton beam therapy. The tumor remained unchanged but enlarged after 4 years. The patient was diagnosed with hepatocellular carcinoma recurrence and received hepatic arterial chemoembolization. However, 1 year later, the patient developed jaundice, and the liver tumor grew in size. Unfortunately, the patient passed away. Autopsy revealed that the tumor consisted of spindle-shaped cells exhibiting nuclear atypia and a fission pattern and tested positive for α-smooth muscle actin and vimentin. No hepatocellular carcinoma components were observed, and the patient was pathologically diagnosed with hepatic leiomyosarcoma. Next-generation sequencing revealed somatic mutations in CACNA2D4, CTNNB1, DOCK5, IPO8, MTMR1, PABPC5, SEMA6D, and ZFP36L1. Based on the genetic mutation, sarcomatoid hepatocarcinoma was the most likely pathogenesis in this case. This mutation is indicative of the transition from sarcomatoid hepatocarcinoma to hepatic leiomyosarcoma.© 2024 The Authors. Hepatology Research published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japan Society of Hepatology.
Activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated protein (Arc/Arg3.1) is an immediate early gene that plays a vital role in learning and memory. The recent discovery that Arc mediates the inter-neuronal RNA transfer implies its role in regulating neuronal functions across long distances. Arc protein has structural and functional properties similar to viral Group-specific antigen (Gag). By assembling into high-order, virus-like capsids, Arc mediates the intercellular RNA transfer. However, the exact secretion pathway through which Arc capsids maneuver cargos is unclear. Here, we identified that Arc capsids assemble and secrete through the endosomal-multivesicular body (MVB) pathway. Arc's endosomal entry is likely mediated by phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate (PI3P). Indeed, reconstituted Arc protein preferably binds to PI3P. In mammalian cells, Arc forms puncta that colocalizes with FYVE, an endosomal PI3P marker, and competitive binding to PI3P via prolonged FYVE expression reduces the average number of Arc puncta per cell. Overexpression of MTMR1, a PI3P phosphatase, significantly reduces Arc capsid secretion. Arc capsids secrete through the endosomal-MVB axis as extracellular vesicles. Live-cell imaging shows that fluorescently labeled Arc primarily colocalizes Rab5 and CD63, early endosomal and MVB markers, respectively. Superresolution imaging resolves Arc accumulates within the intraluminal vesicles of MVB. CRISPR double knockout of RalA and RalB, crucial GTPases for MVB biogenesis and exocytosis, severely reduces Arc-mediated RNA transfer efficiency. These results suggest that, unlike the Human Immunodeficiency Virus Gag, which assembles on and bud off from the plasma membrane, Arc capsids assemble at the endocytic membranes of the endosomal-MVB pathway mediated by PI3P. Understanding Arc's secretion pathway helps gain insights into its role in intercellular cargo transfer and highlights the commonality and distinction of trafficking mechanisms between structurally resembled capsid proteins.
Reproductive failure remains a significant challenge to the beef industry. The omics technologies have provided opportunities to improve reproductive efficiency. We used a multistaged analysis from blood profiles to integrate metabolome (plasma) and transcriptome (peripheral white blood cells) in beef heifers. We used untargeted metabolomics and RNA-Seq paired data from six AI-pregnant (AI-P) and six nonpregnant (NP) Angus-Simmental crossbred heifers at artificial insemination (AI). Based on network co-expression analysis, we identified 17 and 37 hub genes in the AI-P and NP groups, respectively. Further, we identified TGM2, TMEM51, TAC3, NDRG4, and PDGFB as more connected in the NP heifers' network. The NP gene network showed a connectivity gain due to the rewiring of major regulators. The metabolomic analysis identified 18 and 15 hub metabolites in the AI-P and NP networks. Tryptophan and allantoic acid exhibited a connectivity gain in the NP and AI-P networks, respectively. The gene-metabolite integration identified tocopherol-a as positively correlated with ENSBTAG00000009943 in the AI-P group. Conversely, tocopherol-a was negatively correlated in the NP group with EXOSC2, TRNAUIAP, and SNX12. In the NP group, α-ketoglutarate-SMG8 and putrescine-HSD17B13 were positively correlated, whereas a-ketoglutarate-ALAS2 and tryptophan-MTMR1 were negatively correlated. These multiple interactions identified novel targets and pathways underlying fertility in bovines.
CTG repeat expansion (CTGexp) is associated with aberrant alternate splicing that contributes to cardiac dysfunction in myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM1). Excision of this CTGexp repeat using CRISPR-Cas resulted in the disappearance of punctate ribonuclear foci in cardiomyocyte-like cells derived from DM1-induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs). This was associated with correction of the underlying spliceopathy as determined by RNA sequencing and alternate splicing analysis. Certain genes were of particular interest due to their role in cardiac development, maturation, and function (TPM4, CYP2J2, DMD, MBNL3, CACNA1H, ROCK2, ACTB) or their association with splicing (SMN2, GCFC2, MBNL3). Moreover, while comparing isogenic CRISPR-Cas9-corrected versus non-corrected DM1 cardiomyocytes, a prominent difference in the splicing pattern for a number of candidate genes was apparent pertaining to genes that are associated with cardiac function (TNNT, TNNT2, TTN, TPM1, SYNE1, CACNA1A, MTMR1, NEBL, TPM1), cellular signaling (NCOR2, CLIP1, LRRFIP2, CLASP1, CAMK2G), and other DM1-related genes (i.e., NUMA1, MBNL2, LDB3) in addition to the disease-causing DMPK gene itself. Subsequent validation using a selected gene subset, including MBNL1, MBNL2, INSR, ADD3, and CRTC2, further confirmed correction of the spliceopathy following CTGexp repeat excision. To our knowledge, the present study provides the first comprehensive unbiased transcriptome-wide analysis of the differential splicing landscape in DM1 patient-derived cardiac cells after excision of the CTGexp repeat using CRISPR-Cas9, showing reversal of the abnormal cardiac spliceopathy in DM1.Copyright © 2021 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
X-linked myotubular myopathy (XLMTM; OMIM 310400) is a centronuclear congenital muscular disorder of X-linked recessive inheritance. Although female carriers are typically asymptomatic, affected heterozygous females have been described. Here, we describe the case of a sporadic female patient with suspicion of centronuclear myopathy and a heterozygous large deletion at Xq28 encompassing the MAMLD1, MTM1, MTMR1, CD99L2, and HMGB3 genes. The deletion was first detected using a custom next generation sequencing (NGS)-based multigene panel and finally characterized by comparative genomic hybridization array and multiplex ligation probe assay techniques. In this patient we have confirmed, by MTM1 mRNA quantification, a MTM1 gene expression less than the expected 50 percent in patient muscle. The significant 20% reduction in MTM1 mRNA expression in muscle, precludes low level of the normal myotubularin protein as the cause of the phenotype in this heterozygous female. We have also found that BIN1 expression in patient muscle biopsy was significantly increased, and postulate that BIN1 expression will be increased in XLMTM patient muscle as an attempt to maintain muscle function.Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a diverse malignant hematologic disorder with poor clinical outcomes. Increasing evidence suggests that metabolic reprogramming, particularly lipid metabolism, contributes to AML progression and may offer new opportunities for biomarker discovery and therapeutic targeting. However, lipid metabolism-related hub genes with diagnostic and prognostic relevance in AML have not been systematically characterized.Expression profiles from GSE114868 and GSE9476 were analyzed to identify lipid metabolism-associated differentially expressed genes. Functional enrichment, single-sample gene set enrichment analysis (ssGSEA), weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), machine-learning-based feature selection, diagnostic receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis, survival analysis, and immune infiltration analysis were performed. MTMR2 expression was further validated by RT-qPCR in an expanded clinical cohort of AML patients and healthy controls, and selected lipid-related clinical parameters were explored.Lipid metabolism-related pathways were significantly altered in AML samples. Integration of differential expression analysis, WGCNA, LASSO regression, random forest analysis, and SVM-RFE identified MTMR2 as a candidate lipid metabolism-associated biomarker. MTMR2 was markedly upregulated in AML across independent datasets and showed good diagnostic performance. Kaplan-Meier analysis suggested an association between high MTMR2 expression and poorer overall survival. High MTMR2 expression was also associated with immune- and inflammation-related transcriptional features and with altered inferred immune-cell infiltration patterns. RT-qPCR analysis confirmed higher MTMR2 expression in AML samples, and exploratory clinical analysis showed lower ApoA1 and LDL-C levels and higher TG levels in AML patients than in healthy controls.This study identifies MTMR2 as a lipid metabolism-associated candidate biomarker in AML and provides preliminary clinical evidence supporting its increased expression and association with altered lipid-related parameters. These findings support further mechanistic and clinical validation of MTMR2 in larger independent AML cohorts.Copyright © 2026 Liu, Pan, Chen, Li and Zhang.
Genetic peripheral neuropathies have prevalence of 1:2500-1:10,000 in populations of European ancestry but are underreported in African populations. This retrospective cross-sectional study described 64 children with genetic peripheral neuropathy attending a neuromuscular disease centre in South Africa. Twenty-one children (21/64, 33 %) had confirmed molecular diagnoses, and 43/64 (67 %) were diagnosed via histology and neurophysiology. In seven children, next generation sequencing did not identify a causative variant. The identified genetic causes were PMP22 duplications (n = 11), and variants in ATL1 (n=1), IGHMBP2 (n = 2), MPZ (n = 1), MFN2 (n = 1), MTMR2 (n = 2), SH3TC2 (n = 1), SLC12A6 (n = 1), and SLC52A3 (n = 1). Axonal neuropathy was most common (47/64, 73 %), affecting 9/12 children with African, 17/26 Mixed, and 21/26 European ancestry. Only two of the 11 children with PMP22 duplication were of Indigenous Black African ancestry. Access to genetic closure for children in sub-Saharan Africa remains a challenge due limited access to genetic testing. In this study there was a predominance of unsolved axonal diseases. PMP22-related CMT1A, appeared rare in children of Indigenous Black African ancestry. More research is needed to elucidate the genetic underpinnings of neuropathies in Africa, for informed and relevant genetic and clinical diagnostic protocols for local patients.Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
To identify the genetic landscape of CMT in Saudi Arabia.This retrospective cohort study included 43 patients diagnosed with CMT between 2016 and 2022 at National Guard Health Affairs hospitals in three cities. All CMT cases with a genetic diagnosis were included.Genetic testing was conducted in 23 out of 43 CMT cases (53%), and clinically relevant genetic variants associated with CMT were identified in 17 of 23 patients (73.9%). The most common genes in the cohort were MTMR2, PMP22, and FGD4, with notable intra-tribe mutations suggesting a strong influence of consanguinity. The predominant mode of inheritance was autosomal recessive CMT1, affecting 12 out of 17 cases (70.6%). Five novel variants associated with CMT were identified in MTMR2, PRX, SBF1, and HSPB8.This study reveals a distinct genetic profile of CMT in the Saudi population, with a higher prevalence of autosomal recessive forms of the disease compared to other populations. The findings highlight the importance of incorporating genetic testing into routine clinical practice, particularly in populations with high consanguinity rates.Copyright: © Neurosciences.
Lipid metabolism reprogramming was a key adaptive mechanism for rapid proliferation of tumor cells. It affected tumor progression by altering the expression of lipid metabolism related genes (LMRGs). The aim of this study was to identify novel LMRGs-related prognostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets for glioblastoma multiforme (GBM).The clinical and transcriptomic data of GBM patients were extracted from the TCGA database. the LMRGs were obtained from the MSigDB database, and screened for prognostic related genes. The immune cell infiltration status was evaluated using ESTIMATE, QUANTISEQ, CIBERSORT, MCPcounter algorithm and ssGSEA. The relevant signaling pathways were screened by the GO, KEGG, GSEA and GSVA analyses. The hub genes with prognostic value were screened through LASSO-Cox regression analysis. The distribution of the hub genes in GBM cells was determined by the TISCH2 database. Use DepMap database to demonstrate functional dependence of hub genes. Finally, validation was performed using the GEO dataset.We divided GBM patients into two clusters, with cluster 2 (C2) had a worse prognosis than cluster 1 (C1) ( P = 0.0269 ), and C2 had higher abundance of M2 macrophages, NK cells and dendritic cells (DCs). 40 prognostic LMRGs were mainly enriched in lipid metabolism pathways such as steroid and phospholipid through GO/KEGG analysis. GSVA showed significant enrichment of phospholipid and steroid metabolism in C1. Four hub genes, INPP5F (hazard ratio > 1), PTEN, MTMR2 and IDI1, were identified through LASSO-Cox regression. Single-cell sequencing data showed a high proportion of oligodendrocytes in INPP5F-positive cells, and DepMap validation showed peak gene effects of INPP5F and IDI1 < 0, MTMR2 and PTEN>0.We have identified four prognostic LMRGs: INPP5F ( risk gene ), PTEN, MTMR2 and IDI1, which provide new insights into the mechanisms of GBM progression, as well as new prognostic biomarkers and immunotherapy targets.© 2025. The Author(s).
Oncogenic fusions of MAML2 with CRTC1, CRTC3, YAP1, and NR1D1 retain the MAML2 transactivating domain (TAD) and are believed to drive aberrant gene transcription. While the oncogenic roles of these known fusions have been established, we aimed to identify novel MAML2 fusions across a range of human malignancies.DNA and RNA sequencing were performed on tumor samples submitted to Caris Life Sciences. MAML2 fusions were identified from RNA transcripts and filtered to include only known pathogenic fusions or recurrent, in-frame fusions containing a C-terminal MAML2 TAD. Fusion burden was defined as the number of unique fusion isoforms per sample.Among 180,124 tumor samples, 143 specimens harbored MAML2 fusions with a MAML2 TAD: >50% of specimens harbored known fusions, but novel fusions with MTMR2 (31/143), SESN3 (11/143), CCDC82 (6/143), FAM76B (4/143), and ATXN3 (3/143) were also identified. Compared to the known fusions, the novel fusions generally had lower expressions (median: 8 vs. 13 junction reads/sample, p = 0.0064), higher fusion burdens (median: 6 vs. 2 unique fusion isoforms/sample, p < 0.0001), more frequent TP53 co-mutations (80% vs. 11.5%, p < 0.0001), and no clear association with the tissue of origin. Excluding ATXN3::MAML2, the novel fusion partners were located near MAML2 in the genome, likely arose from duplications or deletions, and occurred in samples harboring concurrent mutations. In contrast, ATXN3::MAML2 arose via interchromosomal translocation, occurred in samples with a low fusion burden, and was not associated with TP53 mutations.We identified novel MAML2 fusion partners, most of which likely represent passenger alterations, possibly arising from genomic instability or impaired p53 function. However, ATXN3::MAML2 fusions, previously reported in a pre-cancerous pancreatic disease case, may represent a pathogenic alteration warranting further investigation.
Lipid metabolism is a critical factor in the inflammatory response and development of ulcerative colitis (UC). However, the diagnosis and treatment of UC remain obscure. The molecular mechanisms underlying UC remain unclear. This study aimed to identify efficacious biomarkers for the diagnosis and treatment of UC, and extend understandings of the pivotal molecular mechanisms related to lipid metabolism in the pathogenesis of UC.Datasets relating to UC were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. Key lipid metabolism-related genes (LMGs) were identified by differential expression analysis, weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), and machine learning. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were used to assess the diagnostic performance of the LMGs. The cell infiltration by estimation of stromal and immune cells in cancer tissues (CIBERSORT) and xCell algorithms were used to examine immune infiltration. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was used to characterize the LMGs.A total of 16 differentially expressed LMGs were identified from the tissue and blood samples of UC patients and healthy controls. The WGCNA and correlation analysis of the tumor microenvironments identified seven LMGs (i.e., MTMR2, ABCD3, IMPA1, NR3C2, ETNK1, ACADSB, and MINPP1). Subsequently, the machine learning and ROC curve analyses identified five hub LMGs (i.e., NR3C2, ABCD3, CD38, ALOX15, and PIGN). The scRNA-seq analysis validated the expression of the hub LMGs and revealed significant increases in the T cells and inflammatory cells in UC.Our results suggest that the LMG signature may serve as a novel diagnostic tool for identifying patients with UC. Our machine-learning model may contribute to future research on the formulation of potential therapeutic strategies.Copyright © 2025 AME Publishing Company. All rights reserved.
Mutations that disrupt the clearance of damaged mitochondria via mitophagy are causative for neurological disorders including Parkinson's. Here, we identify a Mitophagic Stress Response (MitoSR) activated by mitochondrial damage in neurons and operating in parallel to canonical Pink1/Parkin-dependent mitophagy. Increasing levels of mitochondrial stress trigger a graded response that induces the concerted degradation of negative regulators of autophagy including Myotubularin-related phosphatase (MTMR)5, MTMR2 and Rubicon via the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway and selective proteolysis. MTMR5/MTMR2 inhibit autophagosome biogenesis; consistent with this, mitochondrial engulfment by autophagosomes is enhanced upon MTMR2 depletion. Rubicon inhibits lysosomal function, blocking later steps of neuronal autophagy; Rubicon depletion relieves this inhibition. Targeted depletion of both MTMR2 and Rubicon is sufficient to enhance mitophagy, promoting autophagosome biogenesis and facilitating mitophagosome-lysosome fusion. Together, these findings suggest that therapeutic activation of MitoSR to induce the selective degradation of negative regulators of autophagy may enhance mitochondrial quality control in stressed neurons.© 2025. The Author(s).
Charcot-Marie-Tooth (CMT) neuropathies represent a broad and very heterogeneous group of disorders for which no therapies are yet available. Due to the huge genetic heterogeneity, therapeutical approaches that can benefit several forms independently of the unique pathogenetic mechanism have been sought. Niacin, nicotinic acid, is a vitamin used for many decades as anti-dyslipidaemic and anti-cholesterol drug product under the commercial name of Niaspan®, the extended-release formulation of niacin. Of note, niacin can have other effects depending on the dose, formulation and physiology and it has been used to reduce inflammation, to promote angiogenesis and to protect neurons, muscle and axons by boosting nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) levels. Niacin also activates TNF-alpha convertase enzyme (TACE) secretase, which negatively regulates Neuregulin type I-mediated signalling in the peripheral nervous system and myelination. We previously postulated that niacin-mediated TACE activation can be effective in reducing aberrant excessive myelin associated with different CMT forms. Here, we explored efficacy of this strategy by performing a long-term preclinical trial and we provided evidence that a novel niacin-based long-lasting formulation ameliorates neurophysiology and reduces fibre degeneration in a model of Charcot-Marie-Tooth type 4B1 (CMT4B1) neuropathy, characterized by aberrant myelin. We also sought to determine whether this strategy might interfere with nerve regeneration, which is dependent on Neuregulin type I signalling. Surprisingly, we found that the Mtmr2 knockout mice, a model of CMT4B1, have a defect in nerve regeneration and that niacin-based treatment is not detrimental to nerve regeneration.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Guarantors of Brain.
Natural and artificial selection in domesticated animals can cause specific changes in genomic regions known as selection signatures. Our study used the integrated haplotype score (iHS) and Tajima's D tests within non-overlapping windows of 100 kb to identify selection signatures, in addition to genetic diversity and linkage disequilibrium estimates in 9498 sheep from breeds in Ireland (Belclare, Charollais, Suffolk, Texel, and Vendeen). The mean observed and expected heterozygosity for all the sheep breeds were 0.353 and 0.355, respectively. Suffolk had the least genetic variation and, along with Texel, had slower linkage disequilibrium decay. iHS and Tajima's D detected selection signatures for all breeds, with some regions overlapping, thus forming longer segments of selection signatures. Common selection signatures were identified across iHS and Tajima's D methods for all breeds, with Belclare and Texel having several common regions under positive selection. Several genes were detected within the selection signature regions, including ITGA4, TLR3, and TGFB2 related to the immune system against endoparasites; DLG1, ROBO2, MXI1, MTMR2, CEP57, and FAM78B related to reproductive traits; WDR70 related to milk traits; SCHM1 and MYH15 related to meat traits; and TAS2R4, TAS2R39, and TAS2R40 related to adaptive traits. In conclusion, our results demonstrated moderate genetic diversity in the sheep breeds and detected and characterized selection signatures harboring genes associated with reproductive traits, milk production, meat production, and adaptive traits such as endoparasite resistance.© 2025. The Author(s).
This study aimed to systematically characterize the genomic alteration landscape of phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase (PI4K) and phosphatidylinositol phosphate kinase (PIPK) family genes in solid tumors, assess the correlation of these alterations with patient clinical outcomes and the tumor immune microenvironment, and explore their potential as novel biomarkers or therapeutic targets.A retrospective analysis was conducted on whole-exome sequencing data from a cohort of 2,144 Chinese patients encompassing 18 solid tumor types. Genomic and transcriptomic data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) pan-cancer project were integrated to perform survival analysis, correlating genomic alterations, gene expression levels, and patient overall survival. Associations between these gene alterations and tumor mutational burden (TMB), microsatellite instability (MSI), and levels of tumor-infiltrating immune cells were also evaluated.We identified PI4K/PIPK alterations in 10.5% of 2,144 patients, with PIP4K2C amplification reaching 48%. While PI4K2B amplification and overexpression are consistently associated with poor prognosis in COAD, family-wide effects were highly heterogeneous across cancers. Alterations significantly correlated with higher TMB and MSI-H, and multi-omics analysis revealed tissue-specific immune landscapes, highlighting the family's potential for risk stratification and immunotherapy.This study provides the first systematic delineation of the genomic alteration landscape of PI4K and PIPK families at a pan-cancer scale within a Chinese population. It identifies PI4K2B as an amplification-driven prognostic biomarker in colorectal cancer, with potential clinical value analogous to HER2. These findings illuminate the significant roles of these kinases in cancer and provide novel insights for future precision oncology strategies.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are critical regulators of skeletal muscle development and adaptation, orchestrating the balance between proliferation, differentiation, and tissue repair. Here, we identify miR-339-5p as a previously unrecognized, conserved regulator of skeletal muscle remodeling. Transcriptomic analysis from human, mouse, and rat studies revealed that miR-339-5p is consistently upregulated in skeletal muscle under conditions of stress or injury and declines during myogenic differentiation in vitro. Gain-of-function experiments demonstrated that miR-339-5p overexpression impairs expression of genes associated with myogenic differentiation and promotes expression of proliferative markers in both primary human myotubes and mouse C2C12 cells. Transcriptomic profiling confirmed widespread repression of pathways involved in cytoskeletal organization, myofibrillar assembly, and mitochondrial function. In vivo, electroporation-mediated overexpression of miR-339-5p in mouse tibialis anterior altered regeneration-associated gene expression and increased the number of immature fibers, therefore modulating tissue remodeling during postinjury growth. Integrated analyses combining target prediction algorithms, differentiation-associated correlations, and overexpression datasets identified seven conserved high-confidence miR-339-5p targets, among which the autophagy-associated phosphatase myotubularin related protein 3 (MTMR3) emerged as the most consistently regulated candidate. Collectively, our data demonstrate that miR-339-5p functions as a conserved inhibitor of myogenic progression, linking injury-induced stress responses to delayed differentiation and altered muscle remodeling. These findings establish miR-339-5p as a potential therapeutic target in conditions characterized by impaired muscle regeneration or dysregulated tissue remodeling.NEW & NOTEWORTHY We uncover miR-339-5p as a conserved microRNA that suppresses myogenic proliferation and differentiation and reshapes contractile gene networks in skeletal muscle. Its induction after injury and ability to alter regeneration and fiber morphology in vivo highlight miR-339-5p as a regulator of muscle repair or remodeling.
The specific autophagic roles of adenosine deaminase RNA-specific 1 (ADAR) and inositol Polyphosphate-5-Phosphatase J (INPP5J) and their relationship in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) are poorly understood. This study sought to explore the involvement of ADAR and INPP5J in autophagy and their functional interaction in LUAD.Cancer tissues and the adjacent normal tissues from LUAD patients were obtained to analyze the expression of ADAR1 and Inositol Polyphosphate-5-Phosphatase J (INPP5J), as well as the autophagy-related PI3K/AKT/mTOR signal. LUAD cell (A549 and NCI-H1975) was treated with sh-ADAR1 alone or in combination with sh-INPP5J or 740 YP (a PI3K activator) to investigate their effects on autophagy. The binding between ADAR1 and INPP5J mRNA was determined by RIP-qPCR. Subsequently, A549 cells were subcutaneously injected into the nude mice, and sh-ADAR1 was administered with or without sh-INPP5J to explore their roles in tumor formation and autophagy.Compared to the adjacent normal tissues, the mRNA level and the protein level of INPP5J expression were downregulated in cancer tissues, while those of ADAR1 were upregulated. In LUAD patients, the ratios of p-PI3K/PI3K, p-AKT/AKT, p-mTOR/mTOR, and the level of p62 were elevated in cancer tissues compared to the adjacent normal tissues, whereas LC3II/I and Beclin1 expression were reduced. Silencing ADAR1 downregulated the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway and p62 expression in LUAD cells, while upregulating LC3II/I and Beclin1 expression, but these effects were blocked by sh-INPP5J. Overexpression of INPP5J inhibited the PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling pathway and p62 expression in LUAD cells, and upregulated LC3II/I and Beclin1 expression, but these effects were blocked by 740 YP. Silencing ADAR1 suppressed LUAD cell viability, colony formation, scratch healing, and tumor formation, but these effects were blocked by sh-INPP5J.ADAR1 inhibits the LUAD-associated autophagy by modifying INPP5J to activate the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway, providing a novel adjuvant therapeutic target for LUAD.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Phosphatidylinositol 4-kinases (PI4Ks) are crucial enzymes in lipid signaling responsible for generating phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate (PI4P). Although the ATP-binding site of PI4Ks has been extensively studied, the structural characterization of their natural substrate, phosphatidylinositol (PI), bound to the enzyme remains elusive. In this study, we synthesized novel non-hydrolyzable Michaelis-Menten transition state mimetics in which the ADP molecule is covalently linked to inositol-4-phosphate or simple phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate via a methylene or ethylene bridge. During our synthesis efforts, we successfully addressed the significantly limited reactivity at position 4 of inositols by utilizing P(III) phosphorus reagents, which proved crucial for the synthesis of these mimetics. For the simplest ADP-C-4PI analogue, we obtained a crystal structure of PI4K2B, which can be used to understand how these phospholipids are phosphorylated on membrane surfaces.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Late-onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD) is the most common form of dementia in the elderly, yet no curative treatments are available. Although genome-wide association studies (GWASs) have identified numerous genetic risk factors, these factors often differ among ethnic groups, and the mechanisms driving LOAD onset remain poorly understood. Most GWASs of LOAD have been conducted in European populations; the expansion of future studies to non-European populations should uncover novel genetic factors underlying LOAD pathogenesis. To identify novel LOAD-susceptible genes, we conducted whole-genome sequencing data analysis on 1928 Japanese individuals including 325 patients with LOAD and 1603 cognitively normal elderly controls. A GWAS for common variants identified a statistically significant association signal in rs429358, within the apolipoprotein E gene (APOE), which defines the APOE ε 4 haplotype. This association was successfully replicated in an independent Japanese replication cohort of 4768 samples, genotyped using the Asian Screening Array. For rare variants, a gene-based association study identified two rare variants, rs769490815 and rs1921732305, in Inositol polyphosphate 5-phosphatase (INPP5J) as potential candidates for LOAD association. Due to their extremely low allele frequencies, these variants were not included on the genotyping array and could not be evaluated in the replication cohort. However in vitro functional analyses revealed that the ethnicity-specific p.K687T mutation (rs1921732305) significantly reduced the phosphatase activity of INPP5J, suggesting a potential pathogenic role in LOAD.© 2026. The Author(s).
Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a prevalent chronic gastrointestinal disease. Gene plays an important role in UC pathogenesis. Therefore, we aim to identify UC susceptibility genes and specific cell types expressing these genes. We conducted a cross-tissue transcriptome-wide association study by integrating UC GWAS with 49 tissues gene expression matrix from the Genotype-Tissue Expression project. Subsequently, we employed Functional Summary-based Imputation to verify candidate genes within colon tissue. Conditional and Joint Analysis was utilized to filter out genes potentially influenced by linkage disequilibrium. Multimarker Analysis of Genomic Annotation was then applied to pinpoint genes relevant to UC. Validation of the selected genes was performed using Mendelian randomization. GeneMANIA analysis was conducted to elucidate biological functions of identified genes. Finally, single-cell RNA sequencing was employed to ascertain cell types in which these genes are enriched. The cross-tissue transcriptome-wide association study, Functional Summary-based Imputation and Multimarker Analysis of Genomic Annotation analyses identified a total of 5 genes, of which 3 genes, ADCY3, ITGB6, and MTMR3, were retained after Mendelian randomization. These genes were found to be implicated in several functional pathways, including the cyclic AMP metabolic process and phosphorus-oxygen lyase activity. Furthermore, we observed ADCY3 predominantly enriched in B cells, while ITGB6 and MTMR3 enriched in epithelial cells. Our study has identified 3 genes associated with UC susceptibility. These findings not only enhance our understanding of the genetic underpinnings of UC, but also offer novel avenues for exploring molecular mechanisms and potential therapeutic targets for UC.Copyright © 2025 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) signaling is hyperactivated in ~70% of breast cancers via mutations in oncogenes including PIK3CA or inactivation/depletion of phosphoinositide (PI)-phosphatases. Generation of PI(3,4,5)P3 by PI3K activates many downstream effectors, including AKT, that induce cellular proliferation in breast cancer. In this context PI(3,4,5)P3 is tightly regulated by PI-phosphatases, including the tumor suppressor PTEN and inositol polyphosphate 5-phosphatases such as PIPP/INPP5J. PTEN and PIPP dephosphorylate PI(3,4,5)P3 to form different lipid products, thereby individually regulating AKT activation. PI3K/AKT signaling is complex and the functional interplay between these PI-phosphatases in suppressing this pathway in vivo is unknown. Here, we utilize experimental models of breast cancer, both dependent and independent of PIK3CA mutation. Pipp ablation in Pten+/- mice increases mammary AKT signaling and cell proliferation, associated with increased hyperplasia and ductal thickening, characteristics linked with mammary epithelial cell transformation. In breast cancer cell lines, combined PIPP/PTEN knockdown increases AKT signaling and cell proliferation, independent of mutant PIK3CA, above any single PI-phosphatase knockdown. Notably, combined PIPP/PTEN loss is observed in a subset of human breast cancers, associated with reduced survival. Collectively, these findings support a model whereby loss of PIPP constitutes a co-operative step towards breast cancer progression in the context of PTEN deficiency.© 2025. The Author(s).
Low grade gliomas (LGGs) are heterogeneous tumors with high recurrence rates and variable clinical outcomes. However, metabolic dysregulation within LGG and its prognosis and tumor pathology remain poorly understood. We investigated the significance of inositol phosphate metabolism (IPM) in LGG and constructed an integrated machine learning survival model to improve the prognostic accuracy. By examining the transcriptomic data of LGGs, we identified a prognostic IPM (pIPM) signature consisting of 33 genes, with PLCG1 and MTMR3 showing the highest and lowest hazard ratios, respectively. Subsequent consensus clustering analysis revealed two distinct clusters (C1 and C2) with different pIPM expression levels and overall survival outcomes. Furthermore, IPM pathway analysis revealed an overall poor prognosis except for MGAT4C, suggesting that IPM plays a key role in driving LGG progression. Using machine learning algorithms, we developed and validated a robust survival model based on pIPM, in which Lasso model showed excellent discriminative power and reliability on both training and validation datasets. Furthermore, an increased IPM risk score was associated with increased cell proliferation and inflammation. Remarkably, the score was linked to treatment response, tumor recurrence, and remodeling of the immune microenvironment, emphasizing its potential as both a prognostic biomarker and a therapeutic target for LGG. In conclusion, our findings revealed a complex involvement of phosphatidylinositol metabolism in the LGG pathogenesis and elucidated its clinical significance for prognostic prediction and therapeutic intervention.© 2025. The Author(s).
Autophagy is a lysosome-mediated self-degradation process of eukaryotic cells which is critical for the elimination of cellular damage. Its capacity progressively declines with age, and this change can lead to the development of various neurodegenerative pathologies including Spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 (SCA1). SCA1 is mainly caused by mutations in the polyglutamine region of Ataxin 1 protein. In patients affected by the disease, Purkinje neurons of the cerebellum frequently undergo demise and eventually become lost. Here we tested whether two well-characterized autophagy-enhancing small molecules, AUTEN-67 and -99, which antagonize the autophagy complex Vps34 through blocking the myotubularin-related lipid phosphatase MTMR14/EDTP, have the capacity to ameliorate SCA1 symptoms. We found that in a Drosophila model of SCA1, only AUTEN-67 exerts positive effects including improvement in climbing ability and extending life span. Based on these results, we hypothesized that the two compounds influence autophagy in the brain in a neuron-specific manner. Indeed, according to data we obtained, AUTEN-67 and -99 exhibit shared and unique functional domains in the Drosophila brain. AUTENs enhance autophagy in GABAergic and dopaminergic neurons. In addition, AUTEN-67 also affect autophagy in cholinergic neurons, while AUTEN-99 trigger the process in glutaminergic neurons and motoneurons. We also observed varying efficiencies between the two AUTENs among different subtypes of cultured hippocampal neurons of mice. These data suggest that the two compounds display neuron-specific differences in exerting autophagy-enhancing effects, and may lead to a better understanding of which types of neurons autophagy could potentially be activated to treat SCA1 in human patients.
Kidney fibrosis (KF) represents a critical pathological alteration in the end stage of chronic kidney disease (CKD) and is the ultimate cause of mortality. Lipid metabolism plays a significant role in the pathogenesis of KF. Therefore, biomarkers associated with lipid metabolism will be identified to guide the treatment and management of CKD.Three datasets obtained from the GEO database, along with 760 lipid metabolism-related genes sourced from two databases, were utilized to identify lipid metabolism-associated differentially expressed genes (LMDEGs) in KF. Subsequently, we performed GO, KEGG and ssGSEA enrichment analysis to elucidate the characteristics of LMDEGs. Then, machine learning was applied to identify core LMDEGs, Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO) was utilized to construct a diagnostic model, and Receiver Operation Curve (ROC) was operated to evaluate the diagnostic performance. We used unsupervised hierarchical clustering to identify subtypes of KF associated with lipid metabolism and employed Gene Set Variation Analysis (GSVA) to examine differences among clusters. Finally, transcription factor and miRNA regulatory networks upstream of core LMDEGs were constructed using Cytoscape software.We identified 54 LMDEGs and constructed a six core LMDEGs (UGCG, SFRP1A6, OSBPL6, INPP5J, PNPLA3, and GK) predictive model by LASSO regression, achieving area under the curve (AUC) values ranging from 0.723 to 0.774. ssGSEA confirmed that these six core LMDEGs exhibited significant positive or negative correlations with immune cell infiltration. Based on the expression profiles of these core LMDEGs, KF samples were categorized into three distinct subtypes. One subtype is predominantly characterized by enhanced lipid and energy metabolism, another exhibits features of inflammation and immune response activation, while the third displays an intermediate pattern between the two extremes. Moreover, the regulatory network of these core LMDEGs shared several common transcription factors, suggesting a potential interplay between lipid metabolism and immune responses in the pathogenesis of KF.We have identified six core LMDEGs that are significantly associated with KF. Based on this, we have established three distinct clusters related to lipid metabolism in KF, which may provide valuable insights into the treatment and management of CKD.Copyright © 2025 Cao, Liu, Zhou, Fei, Guo, Li, Sun and Yang.
We describe the anatomy of replication forks by detecting proteins associated with DNA replication (Cdc45 and RPA), DNA damage (H2A.X), and DNA repair (Rad51) relative to tracts of synthesized, 5'-bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU)-labeled DNA on chromatin fiber images. These fibers track pixel intensity and positional data, which are analyzed using our program: R-ODD-BLOBS (One Dimensional Data Boolean Logic Operations Binning System in the programming language R). We studied the effect of threshold and signal smoothing for BrdU and protein tracts following hydroxyurea in wild type fission yeast (Schizoasaccharomyces pombe), compared to DNA replication checkpoint mutants mrc1Δ and cds1Δ. We show that R-ODD-BLOBS allows robust analysis of BrdU lengths and that Rad51, Cdc45, RPA, and H2A.X show distinctive, checkpoint-dependent locations around replicated tract ends. Rad51 was found at 22% more replicated areas in mrc1∆ than in wild type, suggesting that homologous recombination repair may be more common at mrc1Δ forks. Helicase detachment in cds1∆ post-HU was indicated by Cdc45 enrichment in unreplicated chromatin close to putative forks. Similarly, cds1Δ fibers show that Rad51, RPA, and H2A.X are distributed upstream of replicated areas more than in wild type. Excitingly, we find that H2A.X is distributed asymmetrically around replication forks, suggesting that the fork complex is a barrier for DNA damage signal extension into replicated areas. Together, R-ODD-BLOBS analysis shows a rigorous, iterative computational analysis tool to assess large chromatin spread datasets. R-ODD-BLOBS finds patterns of DNA replication length and protein components at replication forks that describe the anatomy of a fork and how structures change after replication checkpoint loss.Copyright © 2026 Kerenza Cheng et al.
SHIP1-deficient mice develop severe, transmural Crohn's-like ileitis and die prematurely. Recent analysis of a human Crohn's disease (CD) cohort revealed a significant subset of patients have severely reduced levels of SHIP1 expression suggesting SHIP1 deficiency leads to CD in both rodents and humans. The mucosal inflammatory disease that causes the premature death of SHIP1-/- mice is a consequence of the requirement of SHIP1 expression for the survival of effector T cells in mucosal tissues. T cell specific ablation of SHIP1 expression in CD4CreSHIP1flox/flox mice also results in Crohn's disease-like ileitis, but less severe than in their germline SHIP1-/- counterparts due to the absence of a SHIP1 deficient neutrophil compartment. Consequently CD4CreSHIP1flox/flox mice live much longer than their SHIP1-/- counterparts. As Crohn's disease is associated with an increased risk of intestinal cancers in humans and that T cells are proposed to protect from occult malignancies, we hypothesized that CD4CreSHIP1flox/flox mice would develop malignancies originating in the gut. Here we show that CD4CreSHIP1flox/flox mice with ileitis develop spontaneous metastatic cancer originating in the small intestine, including widely disseminated histiocytic sarcoma and intestinal adenocarcinomas. Our findings demonstrate that T cells in the gut are essential to protect against occult intestinal cancers and that SHIP1 is essential for this function. These findings may aid our understanding of the increased susceptibility to intestinal cancer in IBD patients, and particularly since a significant subset of adult IBD patients have defective expression of SHIP1.© 2026. The Author(s).
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease with limited therapies, emphasizing the need for deeper understanding of disease pathogenesis. While more than 40 ALS-associated genes have been identified, their contribution varies significantly across populations and the data from the Indian population remains scarce. We aimed to comprehensively characterize the spectrum of coding DNA variations in ALS-associated genes and identify novel genetic contributors in an Indian cohort. Whole-exome sequencing on 761 ALS patients and 917 in-house healthy controls and repeat-primed PCR for expansions (C9orf72, ATXN2, NOTCH2NLC, NOP56) were performed. Variants were classified using ACMG guidelines, and rare variant association testing was conducted. Overall diagnostic yield was 15.90%, with pathogenic/likely pathogenic variants. Familial ALS showed higher diagnostic yield (36.95%) than sporadic ALS (12.96%). SOD1 dominated familial cases (53.85%), while OPTN, SOD1 and FIG4 were prevalent in sporadic cases. Homozygous SOD1 variants in six patients correlated with juvenile/young onset (< 30 years). C9orf72 expansions (4%) and ATXN2 repeats (1.7%) were identified at frequencies comparable with Asian cohorts. Rare variant analysis identified JAK2 as a novel genome-wide significant signal (FDR = 3.5 × 10-5). This first large-scale genomic survey of Indian ALS patients showed SOD1 being the predominant cause of fALS, while OPTN, FIG4, and other genes drive disease amidst low C9orf72 frequency. The novel JAK2 association suggests a potential neuroinflammatory mechanism, highlighting the importance of studying diverse populations to uncover distinct genetic etiologies.© 2026. Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Lifestyle factors (i.e. obesity) worsen infertility in both sexes. Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) in particular and adverse metabolic profile in general seem to be related to infertility, for the relationship with the over-weight and the endocrinological dysregulation as in Polycystic Ovary Syndrome, erectile disfunction and hypogonadism.Deeping metabolic- hepatic disorders (i.e. MASLD) in infertility, with focus on markers of hepatic fat. The aims of this exploratory study are: the analysis of metabolic disturbs and the higher prevalence in infertiles compared to controls; genotype the recruited subjects to evaluate MASLD genetic predisposition in the sample population.This is a prospective, case-control study on an Italian cohort of couples. We evaluated in infertile (cases) vs fertile (controls) participants: personal and anamnestic information about health and metabolic disorders through questionnaire, blood data, liver Elastometry, and genetic variants related to MASLD to create a polygenic risk score (TMP6SF2 - rs58542926, GCKRP446L - rs1260326, MBOAT7 - rs641738, PNPLA3 rs738409 and HSD17B13 rs72613567).A total sample of 253 patients was obtained, 213 liver Fibroscan exams were performed, 192 participants underwent in-depth genetic analyses (109 cases vs 83 controls). AST/ALT(index of fibrosis), CAP(for steatosis), and abdominal circumference were increased among infertile patients. , PRS-5 shows an association with the individual status of the subject (to be a case or a control in the study), meaning that high value of PRS-5 could increase the probability to belong to the population at risk (case).Adverse metabolic profiles could be related to a series of alterations and genetic variants potentially involved in the reduction of couple fertility.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) is increasingly recognized during adolescence and exhibits sex-specific characteristics. Its prevalence in late adolescent females is around 10% in the general population and exceeds 30% in obesity. Genetic variants in PNPLA3, MBOAT7, and MARC1 modulate hepatic fat accumulation and liver injury in adults, but evidence in adolescent females remains limited. This study examined MASLD-related variants (PNPLA3 rs738409, MBOAT7 rs641738, MARC1 rs2642438) in relation to metabolic and immune-inflammation indices in a late-adolescent female cohort. A cross-sectional analysis was performed in a prospectively assembled female cohort (n = 150; age 16-19 years). Ultrasound-defined MASLD prevalence was 16.7%. Although genotype-wise differences did not reach statistical significance, MASLD prevalence was directionally higher among PNPLA3 G- and MBOAT7 T-allele carriers, while a non-uniform, directionally favorable pattern was observed for the MARC1 A allele. Nominal, unadjusted differences were observed for low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-c) and systemic immune-inflammation index (SII) across MBOAT7 genotypes. Cumulative risk-allele burden analyses identified nominal trends for triglycerides (K-W p = 0.05; J-T p = 0.014) and triglyceride-glucose (TyG) index (K-W p = 0.034; J-T p = 0.008), which were not retained after adjustment for age and body mass index. Overall, these findings indicate modest, exploratory genotype-related patterns in metabolic and hematological immune-inflammation indices within a relatively healthy, late-adolescent female population. TyG and SII exhibited substantial inter-individual variability but did not demonstrate independent predictive value. Larger, longitudinal studies with advanced imaging are required to clarify the role of genetic variation and simple hematological metabolic-inflammation indices in early MASLD risk assessment in adolescent females.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) has emerged as a primary driver of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However, the synergistic impact of ancestral genetic susceptibility and socio-demographic transitions on the global MASLD-HCC landscape remains insufficiently quantified.Using GBD 2021 data, we analyzed MASLD-HCC mortality and DALYs across 204 countries (1990-2021). Temporal trends were quantified using Joinpoint-derived average annual percent change (AAPC). We integrated ancestry-weighted risk allele frequencies (RAF) for five high-impact SNPs (PNPLA3, TM6SF2, MBOAT7, GCKR, HSD17B13) into GBD regions and utilized frontier and inequality analyses to evaluate socio-demographic drivers and 2050 projections.In 2021, sub-Saharan Africa exhibited the highest mortality age-standardized rates (up to 1.09/100,000), while high-income super regions and Southern Latin America showed the most rapid historical increases (AAPC: 2.88% to 4.19%). Genetic-epidemiological mapping revealed that regional mortality burden was strongly correlated with PNPLA3 (ρ = 0.663, p = 0.001) and GCKR (ρ = 0.662, p = 0.001) risk frequencies, while HSD17B13 exerted a protective effect (ρ = -0.562, p = 0.008). The concentration index shifted toward zero (from - 0.0752 to - 0.0459), indicating an epidemiological convergence and global homogenization of the MASLD-HCC epidemic. By 2050, high-income super regions are projected to experience a disproportionate 52.11% surge in mortality, reflecting a significant delayed burden of cumulative metabolic risk exposure.The MASLD-HCC landscape is transitioning toward global prevalence, driven by genetic architecture and metabolic shifts. This narrowing inequality gap and impending mortality surge necessitate genetically-informed precision prevention and re-evaluation of metabolic-oncology surveillance.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Asian Pacific Association for the Study of the Liver.
This study aims to identify macrophage polarization (MP)-related genes implicated in esophageal cancer (EC) by integrating methylation quantitative trait loci (mQTL), expression QTL (eQTL), and protein QTL (pQTL) data with EC genome-wide association study (GWAS) data.GWAS data were obtained from the UK Biobank for discovery and the FinnGen R10 release for validation. Blood-based mQTL, eQTL, and pQTL summary data were sourced from large European cohorts. Summary Data-based Mendelian Randomization (SMR) analysis assessed the associations between MP-related gene methylation, expression, protein abundance, and EC risk. Colocalization analysis identified shared causal variants.SMR and colocalization analysis identified 54 methylation loci, seven genes, and one protein associated with EC risk. Based on multi-omics integration and tiered evidence, LEP was classified as tier 1 due to its significant negative association in integrated mQTL-eQTL data. LEP (cg13454199) methylation showed a positive association with EC risk, while LEP expression was negatively associated, indicating that increased LEP methylation may downregulate its expression, potentially raising EC risk. INPP5D and PGF were tier 2 genes due to their associations with EC risk at both methylation and expression levels, with strong colocalization (PPH4 > 0.5). Tier 3 genes SPP1 and USP18 were associated with EC risk at single regulatory levels (protein and methylation, respectively) in the discovery cohort, with colocalization evidence and validation in an independent dataset, respectively.We identified LEP, INPP5D, PGF, SPP1, and USP18 as key MP-related genes associated with EC risk, providing potential therapeutic targets for EC.Not applicable.© 2026. The Author(s).
As frontline defenders in the innate immune system, neutrophils traffic to sites of infection by detecting chemical gradients, polarizing, and migrating towards foreign pathogens. This requires communication between small GTPases, phosphatidylinositol phosphate (PIP) lipids, and the actin cytoskeleton to generate forces that drive leading-edge membrane protrusions. Central to the coordination of these signaling events is the hematopoietic-cell-specific 5-inositol lipid phosphatase SHIP1 (or INPP5D), which shapes PIP lipid domains by dephosphorylating phosphatidylinositol-(3,4,5)-trisphosphate (PIP3) to generate PI(3,4)P2. To decipher mechanisms controlling SHIP1 membrane localization during neutrophil chemotaxis, we combined genetic manipulation of SHIP1 with live cell Total Internal Reflection Fluorescence (TIRF) microscopy. Our results reveal two modes of SHIP1 localization: (1) cortical oscillations regulated by the membrane curvature sensing protein FBP17, and (2) dynamic membrane puncta organized by the adaptor protein Nck1. Localization to both membrane structures requires the proline-rich C-terminal domain (CTD) of SHIP1. Neutrophil-differentiated HL60 cells solely expressing a cytoplasmic localized SHIP1 CTD deletion mutant exhibit chemotaxis defects that phenocopy complete SHIP1 loss of function. Overall, this work reveals a dual mechanism by which SHIP1 integrates signals from membrane curvature sensing and adaptor proteins to control neutrophil cell migration.
Disrupted endocytosis is an early feature of Alzheimer's disease (AD), but how genetic risk factors functionally impact this pathway remains unclear. Using isogenic human iPSC-derived astrocytes, we show that the AD risk variant, APOE4, impairs clathrin-mediated membrane curvature, clathrin-mediated endocytosis, and alters plasma membrane lipid saturation and tension. Compared to APOE3 astrocytes, APOE4 cells display an accumulation of flat clathrin structures, reduced maturation of clathrin-coated pits, decreased early endosomes, and reduced endocytic uptake. We then identify the AD risk gene INPP5D as a modifier that restores early endocytosis in APOE4 astrocytes by promoting clathrin curvature and maturation through a mechanism distinct from membrane tension regulation. Beyond effects on trafficking, INPP5D overexpression also reduces lipid droplet accumulation and attenuates inflammatory signaling, linking membrane dynamics to disease-associated astrocytic phenotypes. Together, these findings establish altered membrane mechanics as a proximal consequence of the APOE4 variant and identify endocytosis as a common node linking AD risk genes.
Huntington disease (HD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease caused by an expanded CAG repeat in the HTT (huntingtin) gene, leading to the accumulation of mutant HTT (mHTT). IL17A (interleukin 17A), a proinflammatory cytokine primarily secreted by Th17 and γδ T cells, has been implicated in immune-mediated neurodegeneration. However, the role of IL17A in the pathogenesis of HD remains poorly understood. Here, we identify IL17A as a critical pathogenic factor in HD that promotes neuroinflammation, mHTT aggregation, and autophagy-lysosomal dysfunction. IL17A disrupts autophagic flux by downregulating CTSB and CTSD, inducing SQSTM1/p62 and MAP1LC3B-II/LC3-II accumulation, and impairing lysosomal reformation. Mechanistically, IL17A suppresses lysosomal biogenesis by inhibiting the nuclear translocation of TFE3. This regulation occurs via a novel GSK3B/GSK-3β-TFE3 signaling pathway. Therapeutic neutralization of IL17A with a monoclonal antibody (IL17A mAb) ameliorates disease phenotypes in R6/2 HD mice, improving motor performance, extending survival, and reducing gliosis. IL17A mAb also attenuates mHTT aggregation and enhances neuroprotective signaling, as evidenced by increased expression of DLG4/PSD-95, phosphorylated CREB1, and BDNF. Moreover, IL17A mAb restores autophagy-lysosomal function by facilitating the clearance of protein aggregates and upregulating lysosomal enzymes and biogenesis markers, including CTSB, CTSD, PIP5K1A, and LAMP2. These findings establish IL17A as a key modulator of HD pathophysiology and highlight IL17A inhibition as a promising therapeutic strategy for targeting autophagy-lysosomal dysfunction in HD.
Congenital muscular dystrophies (CMDs) are a genetically heterogeneous group of disorders. Variants in the INPP5K gene, which encodes a phosphoinositide phosphatase, are a rare cause of CMD. The condition is commonly associated with muscle weakness, early-onset cataracts, and intellectual disability, and prior reports have primarily identified missense, frameshift, or deletion variants. We describe the first Chinese case of INPP5K-related muscular dystrophy in a 28-year-old male with a mild phenotype, notably lacking intellectual disability. His presentation included bilateral cataracts at age 5 and adolescent onset limb girdle weakness. Muscle magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed a characteristic pattern of selective fatty infiltration, with severe involvement of gluteal and thigh muscles and striking sparing of the rectus femoris, sartorius, and gracilis. Genetic analysis identified compound heterozygous novel INPP5K variants: a missense c.274C>T, p.(Arg92Cys) and a synonymous c.261G>A, p.(Lys87=) change. Functional studies confirmed the synonymous variant causes aberrant splicing (exon 3 skipping), leading to a frameshift and premature termination p.(Leu52SerfsTer49). According to American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics guidelines, the c.274C>T and c.261G>A variants were classified as likely pathogenic and pathogenic, respectively. This first report of a Chinese patient with INPP5K-related muscular dystrophy broadens both the genetic and clinical spectrum of the disorder. We identify the first disease-causing synonymous variant (via aberrant splicing) and a novel hypomorphic missense variant p.(Arg92Cys), the combination of which explains the attenuated phenotype lacking intellectual disability. Our case highlights the critical role of RNA analysis in diagnosing non-canonical variants and confirms the universal diagnostic relevance of the characteristic muscle MRI pattern.© 2026. Higher Education Press.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42455373 is a review article
Dynamic plasma membrane remodeling is fundamental for cleavage, signal transduction, and cytoskeletal organization during mammalian embryogenesis. Although oocyte activation triggers membrane remodeling and elevates phosphatidylinositol (4,5)-bisphosphate (PIP2), the underlying regulatory mechanisms remain elusive. Here, we identify phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate 5-kinase type I alpha (PIP5K1A), an enzyme responsible for generating PIP2, as a key regulator of membrane remodeling in porcine embryos. Maternal depletion of PIP5K1A impaired oocyte activation, disrupted actin organization and vesicle trafficking, and blocked early development. Conversely, excessive expression of PIP5K1A caused accumulation of PIP2-enriched vesicles that trapped filamentous actin and reduced membrane contractility, resulting in cleavage failure. Structure-function analysis revealed that residue Q169 mediates PIP5K1A interaction with RhoA, the PIPB motif anchors it to the plasma membrane, and the activation loop drives catalytic activity and is required for proper RhoA membrane localization and is associated with endocytic abnormalities when mutated. PIP5K1A also sustains phospholipase C-inositol trisphosphate-Ca2+ signaling, coordinating vesicle fusion and cytoskeletal remodeling. During cytokinesis, PIP5K1A-enriched membrane clusters serve as hubs for RhoA recruitment. These findings suggest PIP5K1A as a central organizer of lipid signaling, actin dynamics, and membrane contractility to drive successful early embryonic development in mammals.© The author(s).
Glioblastoma (GBM) is highly aggressive and prone to recurrence, resulting in extremely poor patient outcomes. Evidence suggests that dynamic regulation of the actin cytoskeleton plays a critical role in tumor cell proliferation, invasion, recurrence, and therapy resistance. However, the prognostic value and regulatory mechanisms of actin cytoskeleton-related genes in GBM remain unclear. This study aimed to identify key actin cytoskeleton related genes using machine learning, construct a robust gene signature for prognosis prediction, and explore its value in evaluating therapeutic response and underlying molecular mechanisms in GBM.Gene expression data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) and Chinese Glioma Genome Atlas (CGGA) were analyzed. Machine learning (ML) methods were used to identify key actin cytoskeleton-related genes and construct a gene signature. Immune profiling and multi-omics analyses were further applied to explore potential regulatory mechanisms.Seven key genes-APC2, PPP1R12A, FGFR1, EGF, PIP5K1A, AKT1, and LPAR2-were identified and used to develop a robust prognostic signature. This signature showed significant correlations with the infiltration of dendritic cells, resting mast cells, monocytes, and activated natural killer cells. The high-risk group exhibited enriched mutations in PDGFRA and PI3K family genes. Drug sensitivity analysis indicated that tozasertib, savolitinib, AZD4547, IWP-2, and GSK591 may have potential therapeutic value. Multi-omics analyses revealed that these key genes are regulated by DNA methylation and transcription factor networks.The actin cytoskeleton-based gene signature serves as an independent indicator of poor prognosis and may support precise prognostic assessment and personalized therapeutic strategies for GBM.© AME Publishing Company.
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 34283446
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 20301532
As the only known RNA N4-acetylcytidine (ac4C) acetyltransferase in mammalian cells, NAT10 has been reported to drive tumor progression, yet its role in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) chemoresistance and the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. NAT10 expression was evaluated in AML cells with acquired resistance to cytarabine (Ara-C). Integrated bioinformatic analysis combining a public NAT10-dependent ac4C profiling dataset with AML-related NAT10 knockdown transcriptomic data was conducted to screen out candidate targets. For mechanistic validation, gain- and loss-of-function assays, ac4C dot blot, RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP), ac4C-RIP-qPCR, and mRNA stability analyses were conducted. Functional assays and xenograft models were used to assess chemoresistance. NAT10 was significantly elevated in Ara-C-resistant AML cells and promoted chemoresistance both in vitro and in vivo. Integrated analysis identified PLEKHA4 as a candidate NAT10-dependent ac4C target. Mechanistically, NAT10 directly associated with PLEKHA4 mRNA and increased its ac4C modification, thereby enhancing transcript stability in an enzymatic activity-dependent manner. Catalytic inactivation of NAT10 abolished these effects. Functional rescue experiments further confirmed the role of PLEKHA4 in NAT10-mediated chemoresistance. Moreover, the NAT10-PLEKHA4 axis was associated with increased nuclear β-catenin accumulation, consistent with activation of Wnt/β-catenin signaling. Further, exploratory analyses suggested a potential association between this axis and tunneling nanotube formation with intercellular mitochondrial transfer. Our study identifies a NAT10-driven ac4C-dependent stabilization of PLEKHA4 mRNA as a key mechanism promoting chemoresistance in AML, revealing a previously unrecognized link between RNA acetylation and leukemic adaptation, and suggesting a potential avenue for therapeutic intervention to overcome Ara-C resistance.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Bisphenol A (BPA) can simulate estrogen, disrupt the endocrine system, affect the development of the nervous and immune systems, and cause fertility problems, precocious puberty, and even lead to various hormone-related cancers. However, little is known about the mRNA expression profile in testes exposed to BPA.This study focuses on the transcriptome of mouse testes with impaired spermatogenesis induced by BPA exposure during puberty. Twenty-one-day-old mice were treated with 30 and 300 mg/kg/d BPA by intragastric administration for a specific number of days prior to transcriptomic analysis. No significant damage to spermatogenesis was observed after intragastric administration with 30 and 300 mg/kg/d BPA for 10 and 30 days. However, significant sperm damage was observed after 50 days of treatment with both doses, showing a concentration-dependent effect. Transcriptomic analysis of testes from mice treated for 50 days revealed 126 significantly upregulated and 32 significantly downregulated genes in 30 mg/kg/d BPA-treated testes, and 775 significantly upregulated and 695 significantly downregulated genes in 300 mg/kg/d BPA-treated testes. The extracellular matrix (ECM)-receptor interaction signaling pathway was involved in regulating the spermatogenesis of BPA-treated testes. RT-qPCR confirmed that BPA (30 and 300 mg/kg/d) significantly increased testicular mRNA levels of Plekha4, Cd24a, and Fos, and decreased those of Srd5a1, Nrg3, and Abca4.Transcriptomic analysis of mouse testes with impaired spermatogenesis induced by high-dose BPA exposure during puberty, revealing significantly upregulated and downregulated genes.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Lysosome dysfunction has been widely implicated in many models of neurodegeneration, but much less is understood of its involvement during brain development in health and disease. Hereditary spastic paraplegia caused by mutations in the SPG11 gene is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by lysosome dysfunction, which also presents neurodevelopmental alterations. Using knockout mouse and cortical organoid models derived from induced pluripotent stem cells, we show that lysosome dysfunction caused by SPG11 mutations decreases the proliferation of neural progenitor cells at early stages of cortical development. At the cellular level, SPG11 mutations cause accumulation of calcium in lysosomes, which reduces proliferation of neural progenitor cells and diminishes apical tight junctions. RNA sequencing analysis revealed that these phenotypes in SPG11 organoids are caused by hypoactivation of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling. The latter is a consequence of lysosomal recruitment of the enzyme PI4K2A (phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase type 2 alpha) resulting in higher levels of its product PI(4)P (phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate), a described regulator of the mTOR pathway. Pharmacological modulation of the function of the lysosomal calcium channel TRPML1 successfully corrected all developmental phenotypes in cortical organoids, highlighting the critical role of lysosomal calcium in signaling during the early phase of cortical development.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) originates from the malignant transformation of immature lymphoblasts committed to the T-cell lineage. Relapsed or refractory T-ALL patients show a dismal outcome with limited therapeutic options and cure rates below 10%. Accurate risk stratification is essential for optimizing first-line treatments and maximizing initial complete response rates. Minimal residual disease (MRD) assessment is the most relevant clinical parameter in T-ALL and a direct measure of treatment response, but it requires an initial treatment course that reduces the time for decision-making. Consequently, there is an urgent need to identify novel biomarkers that can predict the response to first-line treatments at diagnosis. By integrating clinical and transcriptomic data from diagnostic T-ALL samples, we found that high MRD patients show a specific transcriptional profile. Moreover, we identified a transcriptional signature characterized by the differential expression of HSH2D, LAT2, BCL2, MAST4, METRN, and PITPNM2 genes that is tightly associated with an increased MRD, which could improve the prediction of poor treatment response in T-ALL patients, especially during early treatment phases.© 2026 The Author(s). Molecular Oncology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
Dysfunction of the neuronal macroautophagy/autophagy-lysosome system is a critical contributor to neuronal death following spinal cord injury (SCI), but the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. Our study demonstrated that SCI induced impaired autophagic flux and lysosomal membrane permeabilization (LMP) in neurons. By combining in vivo bulk RNA sequencing with validation experiments, we observed the transient upregulation of the membrane repair factor PI4K2A, which was specifically enriched in lysosomes, after SCI. Crucially, ER-MS and IP-MS analyses revealed an interaction between PI4K2A and the endoplasmic reticulum lipid transfer protein OSBPL6/ORP6. This interaction led to the transport of phosphatidylserine (PS) to damaged lysosomal membranes, promoting LMP repair and subsequently reducing lipid droplet accumulation, which suppressed neuronal death. Furthermore, overexpression of neuronal PI4K2A in vivo, through an OSBPL6- and PS-dependent mechanism, reduced LMP-mediated lipid droplet accumulation and increased neuronal survival, thereby improving functional recovery after SCI. Collectively, our findings establish the PI4K2A-OSBPL6/ORP6-PS axis as a novel and essential mechanism for lysosomal membrane repair in neurons. This pathway is crucial for maintaining neuronal lipid homeostasis and represents a promising therapeutic target for reducing neuronal loss and improving functional recovery after central nervous system trauma.Abbreviations: AIF1/IBA1: allograft inflammatory factor 1; Baf A1: bafilomycin A1; BMS: Basso Mouse Scale; CNS: central nervous system; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; DEGs: differentially expressed genes; DS5: DS55980254; ESCRT: endosomal sorting complex required for transport; GFP: green fluorescent protein; HSPA5/GRP78: heat shock protein family A (HSP70) member 5; HT22: hippocampal neuronal cell line; KEGG: Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes; LD: lipid droplet; LC-MS: liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; LGALS3/GAL3: lectin, galactoside binding, soluble 3; LLOMe: L-leucyl-L-leucine methyl ester; LMP: lysosomal membrane permeabilization; LPC: lysophosphatidylcholine; LPE: lysophosphatidylethanolamine; MFGE8/lactadherin: milk fat globule EGF and factor V/VIII domain containing; MS: mass spectrometry; NAGLU: alpha-N-acetylglucosaminidase (Sanfilippo disease IIIB); NEFH/NF200: neurofilament, heavy polypeptide; OSBPL6/ORP6: oxysterol binding protein-like 6; OSBPL8/ORP8: oxysterol binding protein-like 8; PC: phosphatidylcholine; PLA2G4A/cPLA2: phospholipase A2, group IVA (cytosolic, calcium dependent); PITT: phosphoinositide-initiated membrane tethering and lipid transport; PI4K2A: phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase type 2 alpha; PLS-DA: partial least squares discriminant analysis; PS: phosphatidylserine; PtdIns: phosphatidylinositol; PTDSS1: phosphatidylserine synthase 1; PUFAs: polyunsaturated fatty acids; RBFOX3/NeuN: RNA binding protein, fox-1 homolog (C. elegans) 3; ROS: reactive oxygen species; SCI: spinal cord injury; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TGs: triglycerides.
Therapeutic resistance in solid tumors frequently stems from enhanced homologous recombination (HR) repair capacity, yet systemic regulators of this pathway remain poorly defined. Here, we identify a serotonin-sensitive tumor-associated macrophage (TAM) subpopulation that orchestrates inositol metabolic crosstalk to potentiate HR repair in cancer cells. This TAM subset exhibited marked enrichment in ovarian tumors with low response to chemotherapy. Mechanistically, peripheral serotonin activates these TAMs via serotonin receptor HTR7, triggering extracellular vesicle (EV) secretion enriched with inositol metabolic enzymes PI4K2A and ITPKC. EV-mediated transfer of these metabolic enzymes elevates nuclear inositol-1,3,4,5-tetraphosphate (IP4) in cancer cells, where IP4 directly binds MRE11 and facilitates MRE11-DNA binding and HR repair. Attenuating peripheral serotonin using fluoxetine-a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) antidepressant-ablates TAM-derived EV delivering of inositol metabolic enzymes and sensitizes tumors to cisplatin/PARP inhibitor (PARPi). Our study unveils a systemic serotonin-primed metabolic crosstalk within the tumor microenvironment that potentiates chemoresistance, revealing targetable HR repair regulation beyond cancer-cell-autonomous mechanisms.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
PITPNM3 has been identified as a crucial gene associated with various phenotypes of retinal disease in humans; however, detailed mechanisms through which PITPNM3 mutations result in these conditions are not fully understood. In this study, we aimed to generate such a preclinical mouse model and evaluate its relevance to human PITPNM3-related conditions. Heterozygous mice were bred to obtain a homozygous genotype, aiming to mimic the human genetic condition. Subsequent phenotyping and genetic segregation analyses were conducted along with electrophysiological studies and histological examinations. Full-field electroretinogram analysis revealed a reduced cone response although the severity was not as pronounced as observed in humans with PITPNM3-related conditions. Histologically, the retinal structure appeared largely unchanged, indicating a discordance between functional impairment and morphological changes. In our preclinical mouse model, the observed phenotypic changes were not as severe as those found in humans with PITPNM3-related conditions and this discrepancy points to a potentially different disease progression trajectory in the mouse model. These findings highlight the importance of longer follow-up periods in such studies and the need for further research to elucidate the genotype-phenotype relationship in PITPNM3.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41135074 is a review article
Studies have demonstrated a significant connection between acute kidney injury (AKI) and chronic kidney disease (CKD). The purpose of this study was to identify biomarkers linked to the advancement of AKI and CKD, aiming to offer new targets and insights for treating and intervening in these conditions.Initially, candidate genes were identified by overlapping the results from differential expression analyses of AKI and CKD. Biomarkers were subsequently identified using machine learning algorithms, receiver operating characteristic curve analysis, expression analysis and experimental verification. Functional enrichment, drug prediction analyses and immune cells infiltration were conducted to investigate the functional mechanisms of the identified biomarkers. Furthermore, single-cell analyses were performed to examine the trends of biomarker expression across different cell types.CLCNKB, KLK1 and PLEKHA4 were identified as biomarkers by the screening. Subsequently, enrichment analysis showed that CLCNKB was notably enriched in oxidative phosphorylation and the degradation of valine, leucine, and isoleucine in both AKI and CKD datasets. CLCNKB, KLK1 and PLEKHA4 were found to be significantly associated with multiple immune cell types. The regulatory network indicated that PLEKHA4 might play a more important role in the progression of AKI and CKD. Furthermore, it was discovered that CLCNKB, KLK1, and PLEKHA4 are commonly targeted by tetrachlorodibenzodioxin. Finally, in the single-cell data analysis, Type A intercalated cell and Collecting duct-principal cell were identified as the key cells. It was observed that the expression trends of these biomarkers were different under different differentiation states of the key cell subpopulations.CLCNKB, KLK1 and PLEKHA4 were identified as biomarkers related to the development of AKI and CKD in this study, and new ideas were provided for the research on the potential mechanisms of the progression of AKI and CKD.Copyright © 2025 Zeng, Yang and Wang.
Kidney function decline is associated with cardiovascular disease and various other morbidities. Previous studies regarding polygenic risk scores of estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) change were generally based on individuals of European ancestry and not validated on populations of East Asian ancestry.We conducted a genome-wide association study for eGFR slope among 26,755 non-diabetic individuals from the Taiwan Biobank. We developed an eGFR slope polygenic risk score and validated its prediction power on chronic kidney disease (CKD) in another sample with 58,777 non-diabetic individuals.Eight candidate loci associated with eGFR slope (P-value ranging from 1.56 × 10-6 to 8.73 × 10-6) located in the SLC9A9, SLC26A8, DEPTOR, OBP2B, PRMT8, C19orf44 genes and an intergenic locus between MTMR12-ZFR genes were identified and a polygenic risk score for eGFR slope was constructed. The polygenic risk score was validated externally to be significantly associated with CKD in another set of individuals (P-value = 0.0182; odds ratio = 0.753; 95% confidence interval: 0.5936-0.9504).We constructed a genome-wide polygenic risk score for eGFR decline and externally validated its use in predicting CKD in another Taiwan population. Our eGFR slope polygenic risk score might be useful for clinical CKD risk assessment in future, especially for East Asians.© 2025. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Italian Society of Nephrology.
Mutations in the ciliary gene INPP5E, encoding inositol polyphosphate-5-phosphatase E (INPP5E), can cause retinal degeneration as part of the ciliopathy Joubert syndrome or non-syndromic retinitis pigmentosa (RP). INPP5E regulates the membrane makeup of the primary cilium; however, its function in the specialized sensory photoreceptor cells of the human retina remain unclear. Here, we utilize control and CRISPR/Cas9-generated INPP5E knockout (INPP5ED477N/D477N) human induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) to generate retinal organoids (ROs). Through proteomic and immunofluorescence analysis, we show that INPP5E plays an important role in early retinal development and photoreceptor progenitor cell differentiation. In mature ROs, INPP5E localizes to the connecting cilium of photoreceptors, and the loss of INPP5E leads to altered localization of ARL13B and rhodopsin in mature photoreceptors. Furthermore, photoreceptor outer segment structure is affected, leading to elongated outer segment membranes in both cone and rod photoreceptors, suggesting an important role for INPP5E in photoreceptor outer segment membrane biogenesis. Together, these data underline the importance of INPP5E in retina development and photoreceptor structure and highlight the usability of ROs to study protein function in a human context.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is a leading cause of irreversible blindness in working-age populations and frequently cooccurs with multiple ocular disorders. As their shared genetic basis remains poorly understood, this study aimed to elucidate the shared genetic architecture underlying RP and relevant ocular comorbidities.Using large-scale genome-wide association data, we systematically investigated pleiotropy, genetic correlation, cell-type specificity, and genetically predicted causality between RP and major ophthalmic comorbidities.We observed significant genetic correlations and pleiotropic enrichment between RP and retinal detachments and breaks (RDAB), retinal vascular occlusion (RVO), and age-related macular degeneration (AMD), with notable SNP-level overlap between RP and primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). RP and RDAB, as well as AMD, shared genetic associations at chr1:196176201-197311241 and chr10:123900764-125869042. Totally, 41, 25, 114, and 397 pleiotropic loci were identified between RP and RDAB, RVO, POAG, and AMD, implicating pathways related to cell division, metabolic regulation, immune activation, and complement activation. A novel causal variant (rs36212731) and four pleiotropic genes (ARMS2, HTRA1, CFH, PLEKHA1) were discovered between RP and RDAB. Ten causal variants and 24 pleiotropic genes were identified between RP and AMD. MR analyses demonstrated a genetically causal effect of RP on an increased risk of RDAB and RVO (P˂0.05), and AMD was associated with an increased risk of RP. Cell-type enrichment analyses highlighted vascular smooth muscle cells and retinal pigment epithelium as key mediators of shared susceptibility between RP and RDAB, and POAG.This study reveals robust genetic and potential causal links between RP and RDAB, RVO, as well as AMD, along with complex pleiotropic associations with glaucoma. These findings provide novel genetic insights into the shared pathogenic mechanisms and generate hypotheses for future biological, translational, and clinical research.
Sunflower (Helianthus annuus L.), an important oilseed crop, is often used as a pioneer species for improving saline-alkali soils. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying sunflower seedling responses to combined saline-alkali stress remain unclear. This study aimed to elucidate the molecular basis of saline-alkali tolerance at the seedling stage by comparing physiological and transcriptomic responses between tolerant and sensitive sunflower hybrids. The saline-alkali tolerant hybrid K-27 and the sensitive hybrid K-7 were used as experimental materials. Root samples were collected at 0, 3, 12, 24, 48, and 96 h after exposure to combined saline-alkali stress (0.5% NaCl + Na2CO3, adjusted to pH 9.0). Physiological parameters, including antioxidant enzyme activities, osmolyte contents, ion concentrations, membrane damage levels, and cell wall components, were measured, followed by transcriptome sequencing analysis.Phenotypic analysis showed that the root length inhibition rate and fresh weight loss rate of K-27 were significantly lower than those of K-7, indicating stronger tolerance. Physiological analysis revealed that K-27 exhibited an inducible antioxidant enzyme response pattern. In addition, K-27 achieved osmotic adjustment through sustained proline accumulation (peaking at 12 h and remaining significantly higher than that of K-7 at 96 h) and exhibited higher basal levels of lignin and hemicellulose. Transcriptome analysis showed that the number of upregulated genes in K-27 was consistently higher than in K-7 at all time points, with 5,283 genes upregulated as early as 3 h after stress exposure. Venn analysis identified 44 core differentially expressed genes (cDEGs) shared between the two genotypes, which were mainly enriched in auxin biosynthesis regulation, phenylpropanoid biosynthesis, and glutathione metabolism. Among them, the benzoic acid carboxyl methyltransferase gene (BAMT) was continuously upregulated in K-27 but persistently downregulated in K-7. In addition, five other genes (encoding fatty aldehyde dehydrogenase, pectin methylesterase inhibitor, glutathione S-transferase, INPP5E, and HXXXD-type acyltransferase) exhibited significantly higher expression levels in K-27.K-27 tolerates combined saline-alkali stress through coordinated multi-layered response mechanisms, including inducible antioxidant defense, maintenance of ion homeostasis, sustained osmotic adjustment, and activation of the phenylpropanoid metabolic pathway. Candidate genes such as BAMT may provide potential targets for molecular breeding of saline-alkali tolerant sunflower, although their functions require further experimental validation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is one of the most severe malignant tumors. Phosphoinositides metabolism (PIM) plays an important role in maintaining the normal life activities of the organism and regulating tumor development. This study aimed to comprehensively investigate the association between LUAD and PIM. Data on LUAD and PIM-related genes (PIM-RGs) were sourced from public databases. Differential expression, univariate Cox regression analyses, and machine learning were conducted to identify prognostic genes. A risk model was subsequently developed, and LUAD patients were categorized into a high-risk group (HRG) and a low-risk group (LRG). Independent prognostic factors for LUAD were identified, and a nomogram was constructed. Functional enrichment, tumor microenvironment, mutations, and drug sensitivity analyses were also conducted to investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying LUAD. Additionally, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data analysis was employed to identify key cells and clarify the dynamics of prognostic genes' expression. Ultimately, prognostic gene expression was investigated in clinical samples. MTMR7, GDPD1, MTMR4, and MTMR10 were recognized as prognostic genes. The risk model and nomogram (incorporating risk score and Stage) had good predictive performance. Notably, LUAD's malignant progression might be closely associated with biological processes including cellular protein synthesis, abnormal activation of neuroactive ligand-receptor interactions, and anti-tumor immune responses. Additionally, there was a general positive correlation between the differentially infiltrated immune cells of HRG and LRG. Moreover, TP53 and TTN had relatively high mutation frequencies in both HRG and LRG, and 142 drugs exhibited differential sensitivity between the 2 groups. Interestingly, epithelial cells were identified as LUAD's key cell type, with prognostic gene expression showing dynamic changes as these cells differentiated. Consistently, compared with the control group, GDPD1 and MTMR4 were upregulated, MTMR10 was downregulated, and MTMR7 showed no statistical difference but a certain upward trend in the LUAD group. This study identified 4 prognostic genes and constructed an effective risk model, providing a new perspective on the treatment of LUAD.© 2026. The Author(s).
This report presents a case of unilateral retinitis pigmentosa (URP) with associated symptoms and microphthalmia in the right eye of a young female patient. A 23-year-old with a previous diagnosis of URP and a constricted visual field in one eye was examined. Slit lamp examination of the right eye revealed a moderate posterior subcapsular and mild nuclear sclerotic cataract, with a clear lens in the left eye. Funduscopic examination of the right eye showed diffuse retinal pigmentary epithelium atrophy with peripheral bone spicule pigmentation, cystoid macular edema, and glial clusters protruding from the optic nerve. Left eye fundoscopy revealed unremarkable retinal findings. Fundus autofluorescence, optical coherence tomography, Humphrey visual field, and full-field electroretinogram testing indicated compatible results with our funduscopic findings of URP. Axial length (AL) measurements and anterior chamber angle assessment by gonioscopy suggested microphthalmia of the right globe. The left eye was shorter than average but within normal limits. Salivary genetic testing revealed genetically sensitized retinae carrying heterozygous variants in the INPP5E, FSCN2, RP1L1, and WFS1 genes. The patient is a carrier of a pathogenic variant of INPP5E, while the significance of the other identified variants is uncertain. This case report showcases the unique presentation of URP, glial tissue abnormality, and microphthalmia, suggesting a potentially shared genetic link between retinal pigmentary degeneration and malformation of other ocular structures. Further study is required to understand any shared genetic and/or proteomic etiology. These discoveries may aid in possible future treatment modalities for retinal cilioretinopathy disease and related disorders.Copyright © 2026, Bivona et al.
Splicing disruption has been implicated in a range of heritable phenotypes, including numerous psychiatric and neurological disorders. Recent studies have identified thousands of common genetic variants impacting splicing in brain and other tissues, but have focused largely on single nucleotide polymorphisms or short indels. Despite growing evidence that genetic variation at short tandem repeats (STRs) influences splicing, large-scale studies of STR-mediated splicing in brain have been limited by low sample sizes of available RNA-seq data or exclusion of certain classes of STRs, such as homopolymers which account for around half of all STRs. In this study, we leveraged deep RNA-seq and SNP array data from 336 human dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) samples collected by the Human Brain Collection Core (HBCC). We imputed 445,720 STRs into available genotype data and identified 51,343 unique STRs for which copy number is significantly associated with one or multiple alternative splicing events of nearby genes (spliceSTRs). We prioritized and characterized candidate causal spliceSTRs using three orthogonal fine-mapping strategies which identified 1,313 high-confidence fine-mapped spliceSTRs. Our analyses revealed strong associations between copy number of certain repeat units and binding of specific RNA-binding proteins (RBPs), including a previously known relationship between HNRNPL and AC repeat length, suggesting that the functional impact of some spliceSTRs may be mediated through their binding affinity for RBPs. Finally, co-localization analyses using summary statistics from genome-wide association studies (GWAS) for 6 brain-related disorders identified multiple signals that may be driven by spliceSTRs, including a previously identified GT n repeat that is a spliceSTR for PLEKHA1 associated with Alzheimer's disease as well as a newly identified AGG n spliceSTR in SEPTIN3 co-localized with schizophrenia. Together, our findings highlight the role of STRs in regulating alternative splicing in the human brain, suggest a general relationship between STR polymorphism and RBP-mediated splicing events, and support the hypothesis that splicing variation mediated by STRs plays a role in risk for brain-related disorders.
The tubulin poly-glutamylase complex (TPGC) is comprised of TTLL1 and at least five associated proteins that promote the addition of glutamate residues to carboxy-terminal tails of tubulin subunits comprising microtubules. Despite its discovery two decades ago, the enzyme has been refractory to characterization owing to its complex multimeric nature and the inability to detect poly-glutamylase activity after assembling the six-subunit complex. We now show that TPGC is the key enzyme driving centriolar and ciliary poly-glutamylation. We identified two additional TPGC subunits, TBC1D19 and KIAA1841, and showed that both components play an essential role in the assembly of the eight-subunit holo-enzyme. We were able to reconstitute the activity of TPGC with all eight subunits. TBC1D19 and KIAA1841 were essential for TPGC activity, and loss of TBC1D19 strongly compromised multiple tubulin modifications, including axonemal poly-glutamylation. TBC1D19 loss also abolished transport of ARL13B and other ciliary membrane proteins, abrogating primary cilium assembly. Structural predictions suggested an essential role for TBC1D19 and KIAA1841 in complex assembly, microtubule binding, and preferential poly-glutamylation of α-tubulin. We found that TBC1D19 loss abrogated the ciliary localization of phosphatidyl inositol phosphatase, INPP5E, which coincided with cilium instability. Ciliogenesis in TBC1D19 null cells could be restored through inhibition of a specific phosphatidyl inositol phosphate (PIP) kinase, PIP5K1C, suggesting that TBC1D19 is required to maintain PIP homeostasis during ciliogenesis. Collectively, our data show that TPGC is a multi-functional enzyme essential for cilium assembly and maintenance.© 2026. The Author(s).
Modifier genes may cause different clinical phenotypes in patients with long QT syndrome (LQTS) carrying the same pathogenic variant. Variants in the MTMR4 gene have been previously associated, via patient-specific cardiomyocytes derived from induced pluripotent stem cells, with variable arrhythmic risk in a family with the p.Y111C-LQT1 mutation. This study aimed to evaluate the broader clinical impact of MTMR4 variants in patients with LQT1 and LQT2.A total of 1192 LQTS patients were analysed: 638 with LQT1, 432 with LQT2, and 122 Swedish carriers of the p.Y111C-LQT1 variant. The association between MTMR4 variants and clinical severity was assessed by comparing patients with severe symptoms (cardiac arrest or syncope on beta-blockers) vs asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic individuals. ECG parameters, including Tpeak-Tend and T-wave heterogeneity, were also evaluated.In the LQT1 cohort, there was a significant decreasing pattern for cardiac events across MTMR4 genotypes (AA:15.9%, Aa:11.6%, aa:6.3%), while an opposite trend was apparent in the LQT2 cohort (AA:16.5%, Aa:18.2%, aa:27.6%). No pattern was apparent in the Swedish cohort. In the combined LQT1 cohort, the aa genotype was found in 15% of 702 mild/asymptomatic vs 1.7% of 58 with severe symptoms (P = .002). Vice versa, in LQT2, aa was more frequent in severe cases (24.1% vs 11.9%, P = .014). QTc was not associated with MTMR4, but the repolarization markers supported a gene-specific directionality of arrhythmic risk.The MTMR4 minor allele in homozygosis exerts a gene-specific and opposite impact on arrhythmic risk in LQTS. This finding should influence risk stratification in clinical practice.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Isoprenylcysteine carboxyl methyltransferase (ICMT) catalyzes C-terminal methylation of prenylated CAAX proteins, a final processing step promoting membrane association and signaling. Although ICMT has been pursued to disrupt RAS membrane targeting, its role in BRAFV600E-driven cancers and critical substrates remains unclear. Here, genetic and pharmacologic (UCM-1336) ICMT inhibition suppressed proliferation and invasion in BRAFV600E-mutant melanoma cells and reduced tumor growth in xenografts and mice. ICMT knockdown inhibited proliferation of BRAF-inhibitor-resistant melanoma cells. We identify INPP5E as an ICMT-dependent substrate: ICMT inhibition reduced INPP5E methylation, displaced it from membranes, and increased PI(4,5)P2. Forced INPP5E membrane targeting partially rescued growth defects caused by ICMT inhibition. These findings implicate an ICMT-INPP5E-axis that supports BRAFV600E-driven tumor growth.
This study investigated molecular drivers of AD-associated peripheral immune dysregulation to identify pathogenic genes and therapeutic targets for precision diagnosis and intervention.A large-scale GWAS meta-analysis (n = 894,710) was performed, followed by two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) using multi-tissue cis-eQTL data to identify putative causal genes. Immune response differential genes (IRDGs) were defined from AD peripheral blood transcriptomes and the MSigDB database. A three-step summary-data-based MR framework integrating blood cis-eQTLs and cis-mQTLs was applied to prioritize causal genes and epigenetic regulatory elements. Findings were validated through colocalization analysis, PBMC scRNA-seq and blood-tissue TWAS. Multi-dimensional clinical validation was performed in the ADNI cohort encompassing gene expression, CSF biomarkers, cognitive measures, immune cell profiles, survival analysis, and plasma proteomics, with cross-cohort transcriptomic replication in AddNeuroMed.Two-sample MR identified eight putative AD pathogenic genes. The three-step SMR and colocalization analysis prioritized five candidate causal genes, whose differential expression in immunocytes was confirmed by scRNA-seq and independently replicated. In the ADNI cohort, PTK2B expression was elevated in AD (ANOVA P = 0.0023), inversely correlated with MMSE (r = -0.164, P = 0.017), and predictive of MCI-to-AD conversion (Cox HR = 1.741, P = 0.050), with independent replication in AddNeuroMed (FDR P = 3.56 × 10-4). PLEKHA1 and PTK2B expression were strongly associated with peripheral neutrophil and lymphocyte proportions (P < 10-7), and PLEKHA1 correlated with CSF total tau (partial r = 0.102, P = 0.036). The prioritized probe cg19863426 at the PLEKHA1 promoter showed progressive hypermethylation across the CN-MCI-AD continuum (F = 3.45, P = 0.032) and was inversely correlated with PLEKHA1 mRNA (r = -0.33, P = 2.68 × 10-¹²).Integrating GWAS, multi-omics Mendelian randomization, single-cell transcriptomics, transcriptome-wide association study, and clinical cohort validation, this study identified peripheral immune causal genes for AD whose blood transcriptomic and epigenetic signatures track with CSF pathology, cognitive decline, and disease progression, supporting their translational potential for early diagnosis and therapeutic development.Copyright © 2026 Lv, Kuang, Wang, Zhang, Liu, Wang, Yang, Ni, Sun and Sun.
PI(3,5)P2 is an endosomal lipid whose depletion is associated with a variety of pathologies such as neurodegenerative diseases. However, studying this lipid in physiological and disease models has been difficult due to the scarcity of the lipid and the lack of live-cell imaging tools. That is until recently, when a novel PI(3,5)P2 biosensor, SnxA, was characterized. Despite the exciting promise of this new sensor, it was still unclear whether SnxA reported on PI(3,5)P2 levels without bias and how its sensitivity compared to other PI(3,5)P2 biosensors. In this work, we addressed these gaps by using a recruitable PIKfyve construct to demonstrate that ectopically generated PI(3,5)P2 at mitochondria was sufficient to recruit SnxA. Further, we co-expressed putative PI(3,5)P2 biosensors to definitively show that SnxA is more sensitive to PI(3,5)P2. We also validated previous results by showing that SnxA depends on PI(3,5)P2 for membrane binding, SnxA responds to PI(3,5)P2 production at endosomes, and that PI(3,5)P2 levels decline quickly when its production is inhibited. Thus, we conclude that SnxA is a robust and sensitive PI(3,5)P2 biosensor that facilitates real-time analysis of this key lipid.
Neuroendocrine prostate cancer (NEPC) persists in a profoundly hypoxic microenvironment, yet the mechanisms enabling tumor adaptation to this metabolically challenging niche remain undefined. Here, we identify the lipid kinase PIKfyve as overexpressed in NEPC, functioning as a central node in a stress-adaptive lipid kinase axis that supports adaptation to persistent endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. Mechanistically, NEPC requires PIKfyve-mediated lysosomal degradation and lipid recycling to maintain metabolic homeostasis under hypoxia. PIKfyve inhibition disrupts lysosomal function, exacerbates ER stress, and activates a compensatory sterol regulatory element-binding protein (SREBP)-dependent de novo lipogenesis program essential for NEPC survival. This stress-lipid axis creates a synthetic vulnerability between PIKfyve and fatty acid synthase (FASN), where dual inhibition synergistically amplifies ER stress, triggers the terminal unfolded protein response, and induces tumor cell death. These findings reveal a metabolic adaptation in NEPC and provide preclinical evidence that co-targeting PIKfyve and FASN can overcome hypoxia-associated stress adaptation.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Lead (Pb) is associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD); however, the relationships between Pb and AD hippocampal transcription remains unclear. We evaluated overlap between Pb-response signatures and cell-type-independent AD transcriptomic signatures.Three toxicology studies (two neuronal cell lines, one mouse hippocampus) provided Pb-response genes. Five human postmortem hippocampal AD case-control transcriptional datasets (n=90 AD, n=106 normal cognition) were cell type deconvoluted and tested with beta regression. Differential gene expression, adjusted for age, sex, and estimated cell-types, were meta-analyzed. Overlapping Pb and AD genes and biological pathways were identified (p adj <0.05).Consistent Pb response was observed at 25 genes ( INPP5F , KIF20B , KIFC1 ) and 47 pathways (ensheathment of neurons, glial cell differentiation, regulation of nervous system processes). Relative to controls, AD samples had fewer neurons (-2.46%), greater microglia (0.42%), astrocytes (0.31%), oligodendrocytes (0.46%), and endothelial cells (0.95%), and 1,455 differentially expressed genes, which were enriched for cellular energy production and metabolism pathways. Six genes ( EHD3 , LAP3 , NRXN3 , PPP1R16B , RPL29 , THRA) and four pathways (synaptic vesicle maturation, vesicle docking) overlapped between Pb and AD.We identified overlapping Pb and AD transcriptomic signatures and pathways, providing molecular context for epidemiologic associations.
Heat stroke causes life-threatening systemic inflammation and multiorgan injury, but the intracellular mechanisms that sustain inflammatory amplification after heat exposure remain unclear. Here, using heat stroke mouse models, genetic NLRP3 deletion, pharmacological inhibition, myeloid-specific NLRP3 deficiency, macrophage depletion, and heat-stressed macrophage systems, we show that tissue macrophage NLRP3 inflammasome activation is a central driver of interleukin-1β/interleukin-18 release, organ injury, and mortality. Mechanistically, heat stroke enhances phospholipase C delta 4 signaling, promotes diacylglycerol accumulation at trans-Golgi network/Golgi-associated membranes, recruits protein kinase D1, and increases phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase β-dependent phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate production. This lipid remodeling supports NLRP3 recruitment, ASC speck formation, caspase-1 activation, and inflammatory cytokine release. Phospholipase C delta 4 knockdown preferentially suppresses NLRP3 activation induced by heat stroke, but not by canonical stimuli. These findings link heat stroke to membrane lipid remodeling and spatial inflammasome assembly, identifying a potential organ-protective pathway in heat stroke.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Neuroendocrine prostate cancer (NEPC) persists in a profoundly hypoxic microenvironment, yet the mechanisms enabling tumor adaptation to this metabolically challenging niche remain undefined. Here, we identify the lipid kinase PIKfyve as overexpressed in NEPC, functioning as a central node in a stress-lipid kinase axis that drives adaptation to persistent endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. Mechanistically, NEPC requires PIKfyve-mediated lysosomal degradation and lipid recycling to maintain metabolic homeostasis under hypoxia. PIKfyve inhibition disrupts lysosomal function, leading to ER stress accumulation and activation of a compensatory, sterol regulatory element-binding protein (SREBP)-dependent de novo lipogenesis program essential for NEPC survival. This stress-lipid axis creates a synthetic vulnerability between PIKfyve and fatty acid synthase (FASN), where dual inhibition synergistically amplifies ER stress, triggers the terminal unfolded protein response, and induces tumor cell death. These findings reveal a metabolic adaptation in NEPC and provide preclinical evidence that co-targeting PIKfyve and FASN can overcome hypoxia-associated stress adaptation.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is dependent on autophagy for growth. Chloroquine/Hydroxychloroquine (CQ/HCQ), the sole FDA-approved autophagy inhibitors, have shown limited clinical efficacy as cancer therapies. To identify approaches to improve PDAC response to CQ, we performed a CQ-anchored, CRISPR-Cas9 mediated loss-of-function screen. We identified that the loss of genes encoding proteins upstream in the autophagy pathway enhanced CQ-mediated growth suppression. This indicated that simultaneous targeting of two distinct nodes of the same pathway, vertical inhibition, may be a more effective strategy than single node inhibition. We demonstrated that genetic loss or pharmacological inhibition of VPS34, a protein necessary for autophagosome nucleation, sensitized PDAC cells to inhibitors of the terminal stage of the autophagy pathway, including CQ and an inhibitor of PIKfyve. We extended this concept to the initiation complex and demonstrated that ULK1/2 inhibition synergized with CQ and PIKfyve inhibition to impair PDAC cell growth and increase apoptosis. Anticipating mechanisms of resistance to vertical autophagy inhibition, we performed reverse-phase protein array profiling and identified that vertical inhibition of the autophagy pathway resulted in enhanced activation of the PI3K-AKT-mTORC1 signaling pathway. Increased mTORC1 signaling resulted in heightened sensitivity to bi-steric mTORC1 inhibition in both cell line and organoid models of PDAC. This study identifies novel anti-autophagy inhibitor combinations that may improve the clinical efficacy of autophagy inhibition for PDAC treatment.Vertical inhibition of the autophagy pathway reduces pancreatic cancer cell growth, increases apoptosis, and enhances sensitivity to mTORC1 inhibition; thereby representing a novel therapeutic strategy for autophagy-driven pancreatic cancer.
Amoeboid cell migration is key to efficient T cell immunity. Spatial polarization of organelles within cells, including endo-lysosomes, is a prerequisite of migration. However, how ultrastructural polarization is linked to the signaling requirements governing T cell migration remains unknown. Here we show that signaling molecules generated by endo-lysosome-localized kinases regulate velocity of amoeboid migration. Specifically, imaging of T cells identifies accumulation of endo-lysosomes decorated with the lipid kinases VPS34-PIKfyve at the uropod of polarized cells. Activity of VPS34 and PIKfyve regulates speed, but not directedness, of migrating T cells. Mechanistically, PI(3,5)P2 generated by the sequential action of VPS34 and PIKfyve, mediates Ca2+ efflux from lysosomes via the mucolipin TRP cation channel 1 (TRPML1), thus controlling activity of myosin IIA and hence the generation of propulsive force through retrograde actin flow. The VPS34-PIKfyve kinases also regulate velocity of myeloid cells, as well as of the amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum - establishing the axis as an evolutionarily conserved speed control system of amoeboid cell migration.© 2026. The Author(s).
The armadillo repeat protein ARMH3 regulates the activity and localization of the Golgi resident lipid kinase phosphatidylinositol 4 kinase IIIβ (PI4KB) and the Golgi-specific brefeldin A-resistance guanine nucleotide exchange factor 1 (GBF1) that activates Arf1. ARMH3 localizes to the trans-Golgi network (TGN) via the GTPase Arl5. We used hydrogen deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (HDX-MS) and AI-enabled modeling to define the interfaces of ARMH3 with its binding partners Arl5, PI4KB, and GBF1. The ARMH3-Arl5 interface was determined to consist of regions near the N and C termini of ARMH3, with Arl5 binding causing allosteric conformational changes in ARMH3 located at a shared PI4KB/GBF1 interface. ARMH3 binds to PI4KB and GBF1 at this shared competitive interface, with GBF1 binding to ARMH3 through a disordered loop we have named the ARMH3-binding region (ABR). Both GBF1 and PI4KB can form ternary complexes with ARMH3-Arl5. The ARMH3 interfaces in PI4KB and GBF1 contain phosphosites, with the phosphomimetic mutation of GBF1 blocking complex formation. These findings provide new insights into the role of ARMH3 as a master coordinator of GTPase and phosphoinositide signaling at the Golgi/TGN.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Ovarian cancer treatment has long been challenged by clinical obstacles including platinum resistance recurrence and incomplete eradication of micrometastatic lesions. This study presents a platinum(II)-based compound AP-604 through the "Targeted Drug Conjugate (TDC)" strategy to overcome the limitations inherent in conventional chemotherapy. Research indicated that AP-604 preserved potent PIKfyve targeting capability (IC50 = 15.4 ± 1.3 nM) while also exhibiting pronounced cytotoxicity against A2780 (IC50 = 2.2 ± 0.4 μM). Mechanistic investigations revealed a multi-mode antitumor action involving concurrent activation of the BCL-2/caspase-dependent apoptotic pathway and S phase specific cell cycle arrest, complemented by enhanced platinum accumulation that exacerbated DNA damage. In vivo tests showed that AP-604 at a high dose achieved stronger tumor suppression than Cisplatin, Apilimod, and their combination without inducing significant histopathological damage. These findings proved that AP-604 has potential as a promising drug candidate with enhanced efficacy and favorable safety profiles in treatment of ovarian cancer.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Phosphatidylinositol glycan anchor biosynthesis class N (PIGN) gene mutation is a rare autosomal recessive genetic disorder. PIGN is essential for the glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor biosynthesis pathway. These mutations are linked to multiple congenital anomalies-hypotonia-seizures syndrome 1 (MCAHS1). The affected PIGN gene leads to a significant reduction in the overall levels of GPI-anchored proteins and CD24 expression, suggesting that even partial depletion of these proteins can result in severe phenotypic manifestations. We present a case of a two-year-old boy diagnosed with spastic cerebral palsy following a hypoxic insult, who also exhibited refractory epilepsy, global developmental delay, and failure to thrive. Whole-exome sequencing confirmed a diagnosis of an autosomal recessive mutation in the PIGN gene. Given that mutations in the PIGN gene may be an underrecognized cause of epilepsy, this case report aims to highlight the importance of early diagnosis of this condition. Furthermore, our findings contribute to the expanding spectrum of PIGN gene mutations.Copyright © 2025, Khalifa et al.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a tumor of high heterogeneity and complexity, which poses significant challenges to effective treatment and patient prognosis because of its immune evasion characteristics. To address these issues, single-cell technology and machine learning methods have emerged as a promising approach to identify genes associated with immune escape in HCC. This study aimed to develop a prognostic risk score model for HCC by identifying intrinsic immune-evasion genes (IIEGs) through single-cell technology and machine learning, providing insights into immune infiltration, enhancing predictive accuracy, and facilitating the development of more effective treatment strategies.The study utilized data from The Cancer Genome Atlas database to analyze gene expression profiles and clinical data related to intrinsic immune evasion in patients with HCC. Various tools, including the Human Protein Atlas, cBioPortal, single-cell analysis, machine learning, and Kaplan-Meier plot, were used to analyze IIEGs. Functional enrichment analysis was conducted to explore potential mechanisms. In addition, the abundance of infiltrating cells in the tumor microenvironment was investigated using single-sample gene set enrichment analysis, CIBERSORT, xCELL, and tumor immunophenotype algorithms. The expression of glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchor attachment 1 (GPAA1) was examined in the clinical sample of HCC by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, Western blotting, and immunohistochemical staining.Univariate Cox analysis identified 63 IIEGs associated with the prognosis of HCC. Using random forest, least absolute shrinkage and selection operator regression analysis, and support vector machine, a risk score model consisting of six IIEGs (carbamoyl-phosphate synthetase 2, aspartate transcarbamylase, and dihydroorotase (CAD), phosphatidylinositol glycan anchor biosynthesis class U (PIGU), endoplasmic reticulum membrane protein complex subunit 3 (EMC3), centrosomal protein 55 (CEP55), autophagy-related 10 (ATG10), and GPAA1) developed, which was validated using 10 pairs of HCC and adjacent non-cancerous samples. Based on the calculated median risk score, HCC samples were categorized into high- and low-risk groups. The Kaplan-Meier curve analysis showed that the high-risk group had a worse prognosis compared with the low-risk group. Time-dependent receiver operating characteristic analysis demonstrated the accurate predictive capability of the risk score model for HCC prognosis. Furthermore, immune infiltration analysis showed a positive correlation between the risk score model and 40 immune checkpoint genes as well as Th2 cells.A prognostic risk score model was formulated by six IIEG signatures and showed promise in predicting the prognosis of patients diagnosed with HCC. The utilization of the IIEG risk score as a novel prognostic index, together with its significance as a valuable biomarker for immunotherapy in HCC, provides benefit for patients with HCC in determining therapeutic strategies for clinical application.© 2024 The Third Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-sen University. Publishing services by Elsevier B. V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltdé.
CD24 is frequently overexpressed in ovarian cancer and promotes immune evasion by interacting with its receptor Siglec10, present on tumor-associated macrophages, providing a "don't eat me" signal that prevents targeting and phagocytosis by macrophages. Factors promoting CD24 expression could represent novel immunotherapeutic targets for ovarian cancer. Here, using a genome-wide CRISPR knockout screen, we identify GPAA1 (glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchor attachment 1), a factor that catalyzes the attachment of a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) lipid anchor to substrate proteins, as a positive regulator of CD24 cell surface expression. Genetic ablation of GPAA1 abolishes CD24 cell surface expression, enhances macrophage-mediated phagocytosis, and inhibits ovarian tumor growth in mice. GPAA1 shares structural similarities with aminopeptidases. Consequently, we show that bestatin, a clinically advanced aminopeptidase inhibitor, binds to GPAA1 and blocks GPI attachment, resulting in reduced CD24 cell surface expression, increased macrophage-mediated phagocytosis, and suppressed growth of ovarian tumors. Our study highlights the potential of targeting GPAA1 as an immunotherapeutic approach for CD24+ ovarian cancers.Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Tissue non-specific alkaline phosphatase (TNSALP) is an enzyme that is tethered to the cell membrane by glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) and converts inorganic pyrophosphate to inorganic phosphate. Inorganic phosphate combines with calcium to form hydroxyapatite, the main mineral in the skeleton. When TNSALP is defective, conversion of inorganic pyrophosphate to inorganic phosphate is impaired and the skeleton is at risk of under-mineralization. Phosphatidylinositol glycan anchor biosynthesis class N (PIGN) is one of more than 20 genes in the GPI-biosynthesis family. Pathogenic variants in PIGN have been identified in multiple congenital anomalies-hypotonia-seizures syndrome (OMIM 614080), although a metabolic bone disease or skeletal fragility phenotype has not been reported. We describe a female child with multiple congenital anomalies-hypotonia-seizures syndrome due to a compound heterozygous pathogenic variant in PIGN who sustained a low-trauma distal femur fracture at age 7.4 years. We hypothesized that the GPI synthesis defect may result in metabolic bone disease from inadequate anchoring of TNSALP in bone and initiated asfotase alfa, a human bone-targeted recombinant TNSALP-Fc-deca-aspartate peptide, as it could bypass the PIGN genetic defect that possibly caused her skeletal fragility. Asfotase alfa was begun at 8.5 years. Baseline X-rays revealed mild rachitic findings of wrists and knees, which resolved by 5 months of treatment. Bone mineral density (BMD) assessed by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) showed mild improvement in spine, hip and total body less head after 16 months of treatment, while radius declined. She sustained additional low trauma fractures at right tibia and left humeral neck at 11 and 15 months into treatment, which healed quickly. Calcium, phosphorus, and parathyroid hormone levels have remained within the normal range over the 18 months of treatment. For adverse effect, she experienced a rash and discomfort in the first week of treatment which resolved with ibuprofen and diphenhydramine. She also developed subcutaneous fat atrophy. Overall, in this child with a compound pathogenic variant in PIGN, off-label use of asfotase alfa has been generally well tolerated with minimal side effects and resolution of rickets, but she continues to remain skeletally fragile.Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
It has previously been reported that glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchor attachment 1 (GPAA1) is overexpressed in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC); however, its role in regulating the development of HCC remains unknown. The present study aimed to examine the potential role of GPAA1 in HCC and to characterize the associated mechanism. The expression of GPAA1 was first examined using the Gene Expression Profiling Interactive Analysis 2 database, and was then determined using reverse transcription-quantitative PCR and western blotting. The effects of GPAA1 silencing on the proliferation, colony formation, migration and invasion of HuH-7 cells were measured using Cell Counting Kit-8, colony formation, wound healing and Transwell assays, respectively. The interaction between splicing factor (SF)3B4 and GPAA1 was predicted by starBase and confirmed using RNA immunoprecipitation. The results of the present study demonstrated that GPAA1 was upregulated in HCC cells, and silencing GPAA1 markedly inhibited the proliferation, migration and invasion of HCC cells, which was accompanied by reduced levels of MMP2 and MMP9. In addition, it was observed that SF3B4 could bind to GPAA1. Furthermore, to confirm whether SF3B4 binds to GPAA1 to modulate HCC cell behavior, GPAA1 was knocked down and SF3B4 was overexpressed. Overexpression of SF3B4 reversed the effects of GPAA1 knockdown on the proliferation, migration and invasion of HCC cells. In conclusion, SF3B4 may promote the proliferation, invasion and migration of HCC cells by binding to GPAA1. The present study provided novel insight into the pathogenesis of HCC.Copyright: © Ge et al.
Phosphatidylinositol glycan anchor biosynthesis class N (PIGN) has been linked to the suppression of chromosomal instability. The spindle assembly checkpoint complex is responsible for proper chromosome segregation during mitosis to prevent chromosomal instability. In this study, the novel role of PIGN as a regulator of the spindle assembly checkpoint was unveiled in leukemic patient cells and cell lines. Transient downregulation or ablation of PIGN resulted in impaired mitotic checkpoint activation due to the dysregulated expression of spindle assembly checkpoint-related proteins including MAD1, MAD2, BUBR1, and MPS1. Moreover, ectopic overexpression of PIGN restored the expression of MAD2. PIGN regulated the spindle assembly checkpoint by forming a complex with the spindle assembly checkpoint proteins MAD1, MAD2, and the mitotic kinase MPS1. Thus, PIGN could play a vital role in the spindle assembly checkpoint to suppress chromosomal instability associated with leukemic transformation and progression.© 2021. The Author(s).
Cotton (Gossypium spp.) is the best plant fiber source in the world and provides the raw material for industry. Verticillium wilt caused by Verticillium dahliae Kleb. is accepted as a major disease of cotton production. The most practical way to deal with verticillium wilt is to develop resistant/tolerant varieties after cultural practices. One of the effective selections in plant breeding is the use of marker-assisted selection (MAS) via quantitative trait loci (QTL). Therefore, in this study, we aimed to discover the genetic markers associated with the disease. Through the association mapping analysis, common single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) markers were obtained using 4730 SNP alleles. As a result, twenty-three markers were associated with defoliating (PYDV6 isolate) pathotype, twenty-one markers with non-defoliating (Vd11 isolate) pathotype, ten QTL with Disease Severity Index (DSI) of the leaves at the 50-60% boll opening period and eight markers were associated with DSI in the stem section. Some of the markers that show significant associations are located on protein coding genes such as protein Mpv17-like, 21 kDa protein-like, transcription factor MYB113-like, protein dehydration-induced 19 homolog 3-like, F-box protein CPR30-like, extracellular ribonuclease LE-like, putative E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase LIN, pentatricopeptide repeat-containing protein At3g62890-like, fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase, tubby-like F-box protein 8, endoglucanase 16-like, glucose-6-phosphate/phosphate translocator 2, metal tolerance protein 11-like, VAN3-binding protein-like, transformation/transcription domain-associated protein-like, pyruvate kinase isozyme A, ethylene-responsive transcription factor CRF2-like, molybdate transporter 2-like, IRK-interacting protein-like, glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchor attachment 1 protein, U3 small nucleolar RNA-associated protein 4-like, microtubule-associated protein futsch-like, transport and Golgi organization 2 homolog, splicing factor 3B subunit 3-like, mediator of RNA polymerase II transcription subunit 15a-like, putative ankyrin repeat protein, and protein networked 1D-like. It has been reported in previous studies that most of these genes are associated with biotic and abiotic stress factors. As a result, once validated, it would be possible to use the markers obtained in the study in Marker Assisted Selection (MAS) breeding.
High myopia has long been highly prevalent worldwide with a largely yet unexplained genetic contribution. To identify novel susceptibility genes for axial length (AL) in highly myopic eyes, a genome-wide association study (GWAS) was performed using the genomic dataset of 350 deep whole-genome sequencing data from highly myopic patients. Top single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were functionally annotated. Immunofluorescence staining, quantitative polymerase chain reaction, and western blot were performed using neural retina of form-deprived myopic mice. Enrichment analyses were further performed. We identified the four top SNPs and found that ADAM Metallopeptidase With Thrombospondin Type 1 Motif 16 (ADAMTS16) and Phosphatidylinositol Glycan Anchor Biosynthesis Class Z (PIGZ) had the potential of clinical significance. Animal experiments confirmed that PIGZ expression could be observed and showed higher expression level in form-deprived mice, especially in the ganglion cell layer. The messenger RNA (mRNA) levels of both ADAMTS16 and PIGZ were significantly higher in the neural retina of form-deprived eyes (p = 0.005 and 0.007 respectively), and both proteins showed significantly upregulated expression in the neural retina of deprived eyes (p = 0.004 and 0.042, respectively). Enrichment analysis revealed a significant role of cellular adhesion and signal transduction in AL, and also several AL-related pathways including circadian entrainment and inflammatory mediator regulation of transient receptor potential channels were proposed. In conclusion, the current study identified four novel SNPs associated with AL in highly myopic eyes and confirmed that the expression of ADAMTS16 and PIGZ was significantly upregulated in neural retina of deprived eyes. Enrichment analyses provided novel insight into the etiology of high myopia and opened avenues for future research interest.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s43657-022-00082-x.© International Human Phenome Institutes (Shanghai) 2022. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Skipped: PubMed ID 38748047 is a review article
Bladder cancer is very common worldwide. PIGT is a subunit of the glycosylphosphatidylinositol transamidase which involves in tumorigenesis and invasiveness. m6A modification of mRNA has been linked to cell proliferation, tumor progression and other biological events. However, how PIGT is regulated and what is the function of PIGT in bladder cancer remains to be elucidated.PIGT was silenced or overexpressed to study its role in regulating bladder cancer. Cell proliferation and invasion were examined with the Cell Counting Kit-8, colony formation and Transwell assay, respectively. Cellular oxygen consumption rates or extracellular acidification rates were detected by a XF24 Analyzer. Quantitative RT-PCR and immunoblots were performed to detect mRNA and protein levels.PIGT was overexpressed in bladder cancer. Silencing PIGT inhibited cell proliferation, oxidative phosphorylation, and glycolysis. Overexpressing PIGT promoted cell proliferation, oxidative phosphorylation, glycolysis in vitro and tumor metastasis in vivo by activating glucose transporter 1 (GLUT1). PIGT also promoted GLUT1 glycosylation and membrane trafficking. Wilms' tumor 1-associated protein (WTAP) mediated PIGT m6A modification, and m6A reader, insulin-like growth factor 2 mRNA-binding protein (IGF2BP2), binds to the methylated PIGT to promote the stability of PIGT, leading to up-regulation of PIGT.WTAP mediates PIGT m6A modification to increase the stability of PIGT via the IGF2BP2, which enhances cell proliferation, glycolysis, and metastasis in bladder cancer by modulating GLUT1 glycosylation and membrane trafficking.© 2023. The Author(s).
Objective To establish an efficient method for isolating migrasomes from RAW264.7 macrophages and identifying these isolated migrasomes. Methods Scanning electron microscopy was used to observe the morphological characteristics of migrasomes produced by RAW264.7 cells. A 0.45 μm filter was employed for reverse filtration and elution to isolate the migrasomes. The morphological characteristics of the migrasomes were then observed using transmission electron microscopy. Western blot analysis was performed to determine the expression of characteristic markers of the migrasomes. The RNA carried by the migrasomes was analysed by using LabChip bioanalyzer. Results Scanning electron microscopy revealed that the migrasomes, with membranous structures, were attached to the tip or bifurcation of the retraction fiber formed in the tail of RAW264.7 cells. Transmission electron microscopy showed that the isolated migrasomes had a typical oval vesicle-like structure with wrinkled membrane surfaces. Western blot analysis confirmed the expression of the characteristic markers phosphatidylinositol glycan anchor biosynthesis class K (PIGK), epidermal growth factor domain-specific O-linked N-acetylglucosamine transferase (EOGT) and tetraspanin 4 (TSPAN4) in the migrasomes, while the EV (extracellular vesicle) markers tumor susceptibility gene 101 (TSG101) and Arabidopsis homolog of apoptosis-linked gene 2-interacting protein X (ALIX) were not detected. Furthermore, the isolated migrasomes were found to be rich in small RNA, which were approximately 25-200 nt in length. Conclusion A method for the extraction of well-structured and high quality migrasomes from macrophages is established.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most common types of malignant tumor, and is the second highest cause of cancer-associated mortality, behind lung carcinoma. It is urgent to identify novel genes that can be used to confirm the diagnosis and prognosis of patients with HCC. The present study aimed to investigate the expression pattern of phosphatidylinositol glycan anchor biosynthesis class C (PIGC) in HCC and assess its clinical prognostic significance. Bioinformatics analyses were used to investigate PIGC mRNA expression levels in HCC and adjacent non-cancerous tissue samples. Furthermore, the present study detected the expression levels of PIGC protein in HCC and matched normal tissue samples via immunohistochemistry, and evaluated the prognostic significance of PIGC protein in HCC. The levels of PIGC mRNA and protein were found to be significantly higher in tissue from patients with HCC compared with non-cancerous liver tissue. The survival analysis showed that the expression levels of PIGC mRNA or protein were associated with the survival of patients with HCC. PIGC protein expression was significantly associated with Tumor-Node-Metastasis stage. A negative correlation between PIGC DNA methylation and mRNA expression was observed (Spearman r=-0.453). PIGC is an oncogene that is negatively regulated by DNA methylation, and high levels of PIGC mRNA or protein may predict an unfavorable prognosis in patients with HCC.Copyright: © Peng et al.
The development of immunotherapy has enriched the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), but the efficacy is not as expected, which may be due to immune evasion. Immune evasion is related to the immune microenvironment of HCC, but there is little research on it.We employed unsupervised clustering analysis to categorize patients from TCGA based on 182 immune evasion-related genes (IEGs). We utilized single-sample gene set enrichment analysis (ssGSEA) and CIBERSORT to calculate differences in immune cell infiltration between clusters. The differences in immune cells and immune-related pathways were assessed using GSEA. We constructed an immune escape prognosis signature (IEPS) using univariate Cox and LASSO Cox algorithms and evaluated the predictive performance of IEPS with receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves and survival curves. Additionally, we established a nomogram for clinical application based on IEPS. IHC validated the expression of Carbamoyl phosphate synthetase 2, Aspartate transcarbamylase, and Dihydroorotase (CAD) and Phosphatidylinositol Glycan Anchor Biosynthesis Class U (PIGU) in HCC. We transfected liver cancer cell lines with siRNA and overexpression plasmids, and confirmed the relationship between CAD, PIGU, and the potential downstream TGF-β1 in HCC using qRT-PCR and Western blot. Finally, we validated the tumor response of CAD overexpression using an animal model.Unsupervised clustering analysis based on IEGs divided HCC patients from TCGA into two groups. There were significant differences in prognosis and immune characteristics between the two groups of patients. Scoring of TCGA patients using IEPS revealed that higher scores were associated with poorer overall survival (OS). Validation was performed using the ICGC database. TIME analysis indicated that patients in the high-IEPS group were in an immunosuppressive state, possibly due to a significant increase in Treg infiltration. Compared to normal liver cells, HCC cells expressed higher levels of CAD and PIGU. Cellular experimental results showed a positive correlation between CAD, PIGU and the potential downstream TGF-β1 expression. Animal experiments demonstrated that CAD significantly promoted tumor progression, with an increase in Treg infiltration.IEPS has strong prognostic value for HCC patients, and CAD and PIGU provide perspectives on new biomarkers and therapeutic targets for HCC.© 2025. The Author(s).
Finding markers of breast cancer that are strong specificity and high. Sensitivity is important. The expression of phosphatidylinositol U（PIGU） protein is increased in a variety of tumor cells, but the role of its secreted fragment in breast cancer is lacking.Differential expression analysis was performed in breast cancer patients by bioinformatics method. Univariate survival analysis and ROC curve plotting were used to explore the correlation between serum PIGU and the prognosis of breast cancer patients. ELISA was used to detect serum PIGU level. Electrochemiluminescence immunoassay was used to determine serum carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), carbohydrate antigen-153(CA153) and carbohydrate antigen-125 (CA125) levels.The expression level of PIGU protein in breast cancer tumor tissues was higher than that in normal tissues, and PIGU expression level was a prognostic risk factor for breast cancer patients (HR > 1, p < 0.05) and had good predictive power (AUC = 0.8941). Compared with healthy individuals, the serum PIGU level of breast cancer patients was significantly highly expressed (p < 0.01), and the serum PIGU expression level was weakly positively correlated with CEA (r = 0.3270), but not significantly correlated with CA153 and CA125 (p > 0.05).PIGU has the potential to be a predictive prognostic marker for breast cancer.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) ranks among the most prevalent forms of cancer globally, and its late-stage survival outcomes are less than optimal. A more nuanced understanding of the underlying mechanisms behind CRC's development is crucial for enhancing patient survival rates. Existing research suggests that the expression of Cell Wall Biogenesis 43 C-Terminal Homolog (CWH43) is reduced in CRC. However, the specific role that CWH43 plays in cancer progression remains ambiguous. Our research seeks to elucidate the influence of CWH43 on CRC's biological behavior and to shed light on its potential as a therapeutic target in CRC management. Utilizing publicly available databases, we examined the expression levels of CWH43 in CRC tissue samples and their adjacent non-cancerous tissues. Our findings indicated lower levels of both mRNA and protein expressions of CWH43 in cancerous tissues. Moreover, we found that a decrease in CWH43 expression correlates with poorer prognoses for CRC patients. In vitro experiments demonstrated that the suppression of CWH43 led to increased cell proliferation, migration, and invasiveness, while its overexpression had inhibitory effects. Further evidence from xenograft models showed enhanced tumor growth upon CWH43 silencing. Leveraging data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), our Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) indicated a positive relationship between low CWH43 expression and the activation of the epithelial-mesenchymal Transition (EMT) pathway. We conducted RNA sequencing to analyze gene expression changes under both silenced and overexpressed CWH43 conditions. By identifying core genes and executing KEGG pathway analysis, we discovered that CWH43 appears to have regulatory influence over the TTK-mediated cell cycle. Importantly, inhibition of TTK counteracted the tumor-promoting effects caused by CWH43 downregulation. Our findings propose that the decreased expression of CWH43 amplifies TTK-mediated cell cycle activities, thus encouraging tumor growth. This newly identified mechanism offers promising avenues for targeted CRC treatment strategies.
This study aims to identify the most optimal rehabilitation strategy for acute ischemic stroke recovery by examining the effects of different mobilization intensities and frequencies, and investigating the underlying mechanisms involving the HIF-1α/PLD2/mTOR signaling pathway.A total of 152 adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to 2-h middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) and divided into five groups to compare high-intensity exercise versus low-intensity exercise with interval (5 cycles of 5-min exercise and 5-min rest) versus continuous (30-min continuous exercise) sessions. The groups were as followed stroke-only, stroke with high-intensity-continuous (HC) exercise, stroke with high-intensity-interval (HI) exercise, stroke with low-intensity-continuous (LC) exercise, and stroke with low-intensity-interval (LI) exercise. Brain damage was assessed by measuring infarct volume, neurological deficits, and neuronal death. The long-term functional outcomes were evaluated using the adhesive tape touch, grid walk, Rota-rod, beam balance, and forelimb placing at days 7, 14, and 28. Neuroplasticity was measured by synaptogenesis [synaptophysin (SYN), post-synaptic density protein-95 (PSD-95)], and myelination [myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG), myelin basic protein (MBP)]. The key role of regulatory molecules- hypoxia inducible factor 1α (HIF-1α), phospholipase D2 (PLD2), and the mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway- was also assessed.All exercise modalities significantly reduced infarct volumes, improved neurological deficits, and enhanced functional recovery (P < 0.05). In the low-intensity exercise groups, the LC rats showed a greater reduction in infarct volume and increased functional outcomes compared to the LI group (P < 0.05). Among the high-intensity exercise groups, long-term functional outcomes were significantly improved in the HI group compared to HC (P < 0.05). Both HI and LC significantly outperformed their counterparts in protecting hippocampal CA1 neurons, promoting synaptogenesis and myelination, and enhancing neuroplasticity signaling (P < 0.05). However, no major differences were observed between HI and LC in these outcomes. Activation of the HIF-1α/PLD2/mTOR pathway was identified as a key mechanism underlying the neuroplastic effects of rehabilitation, with HIF-1α inhibition further confirming its critical role.Exercise rehabilitation, particularly the LC and HI protocols, significantly improves motor function post-stroke, likely through the HIF-1α/PLD2/mTOR pathway. These findings suggest that LC and HI exercise are promising clinical rehabilitation strategies for optimizing stroke recovery, warranting further clinical investigation.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Phospholipase D2 (PLD2) plays critical roles in cellular signaling, membrane dynamics, and cancer progression. Oleate (OA) has been shown to activate PLD2 and promote triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) cell migration, but the underlying molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood. Using confocal microscopy, lipid raft isolation, and S-acylation assays, we show that OA enhanced PLD2 S-acylation at Cys223 and Cys224, disrupting its lipid raft localization, and consequently increasing its colocalization with PIP2-enriched microdomains. Furthermore, we identified PLD2 as a guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) for Cdc42, with its GEF activity regulated by OA-dependent S-acylation and lipid raft dynamics. Mutation of the S-acylation sites or disruption of lipid rafts abolished PLD2-mediated Cdc42 activation and filopodia-like cell protrusion formation. These findings reveal a novel regulatory mechanism by which OA modulates PLD2 activity through S-acylation and membrane microdomain reorganization, providing new insights into the regulation of PLD2 in cell migration and signaling.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The clinical effectiveness of vemurafenib that targets BRAF V600E mutation in patients with melanoma had been recognized. However, the drug resistance severely hampers the clinical application of vemurafenib. We combined metabolomics and transcriptomics analysis and found that phospholipase D2 (PLD2), a key enzyme in choline metabolism, was significantly highly expressed in vemurafenib-resistant melanoma cells, and knockdown of PLD2 significantly increased the drug sensitivity of vemurafenib in melanoma resistant cells. Furtherly, we found that the transcription factor forkhead box protein A1 (FOXA1) positively regulated the expression of PLD2 and promoted the resistance of vemurafenib. Importantly, the knockdown of PLD2 significantly enhanced the DNA breaks induced by vemurafenib treatment, which prompted that PLD2-mediated protection from vemurafenib was responsible for the drug resistance of vemurafenib. In addition, we furtherly found that the combination of PLD2 inhibitor CAY10594 or PLD1/PLD2 dual inhibitors FIPI and vemurafenib exerted synergistic antiproliferative effects in melanoma sensitive cells. The implementation of our study systematically clarified the molecular mechanism by which the FOXA1/PLD2 functional axis mediated vemurafenib resistance via protection from DNA breaks likely subsequent to apoptosis induction in melanoma, and proposed that targeted inhibition of PLD2 synergistically enhances the efficacy of vemurafenib or reverses its resistance, which provided us new insight for the clinical precision medicine of vemurafenib in melanoma.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Phospholipase D2 (PLD2) modulates cytoskeletal dynamics and membrane trafficking processes by converting phosphatidylcholine (PC) into phosphatidic acid (PA) and choline within somatic cells. Nonetheless, the role in oocyte meiosis remains largely unknown. Here, we demonstrate that PLD2 is selectively targeted to the meiotic spindle in mouse oocytes. The knockdown of PLD2 via the specific morpholino oligonucleotides (MOs) or its inhibition with VU 0364739 led to a marked increase in α-tubulin acetylation and induced a meiotic arrest at metaphase I (MI), accompanied by misaligned chromosomes. These defects were effectively rescued by the ectopic expression of Pld2 complementary RNA (cRNA). Furthermore, our findings implicate the Pld2 MO-induced alterations in the AKT-GSK3-Tau signaling cascade in oocytes. The overexpression of a gain-of-function GSK3β mutant (GSK3βS9A) and a Tau-phosphorylation-enhancing mutant (TauP301L) substantially reversed the increased microtubule acetylation and the reduced rate of the first polar body extrusion (PBE) in oocytes lacking PLD2 activity. Additionally, the co-immunoprecipitation revealed a direct physical interaction between PLD2, GSK3β, and Tau in mouse oocytes. Together, PLD2 finely regulates α-tubulin acetylation through the modulation of the AKT-GSK3β-Tau signaling axis, thereby preserving an optimal microtubule dynamic equilibrium and ensuring the fidelity of the spindle apparatus function during oocyte meiosis.© 2025 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Acute pancreatitis (AP) remains a clinical challenge due to its heterogeneous presentation and potential for rapid progression to severe disease. In their editorial, Wang et al highlight phospholipase D2 (PLD2) as a novel candidate biomarker, proposing its involvement in key inflammatory pathways and its inverse correlation with disease severity. While this represents a promising improvement in precision diagnostics, significant gaps remain that require further investigation. Specifically, the functional role of PLD2 in the molecular cascade of AP is not yet fully understood. Questions still remain, such as: Is the observed downregulation of PLD2 a causal factor or an epiphenomenon? Does PLD2 modulation offer a tangible therapeutic benefit beyond a mere correlation? These questions highlight the necessity of mechanistic in vivo studies to validate the role and therapeutic potential of PLD2. Furthermore, interindividual variability in inflammatory responses raises concerns regarding PLD2's predictive consistency across genetically diverse populations. The temporal dynamics of PLD2 expression in AP also remain unclear; establishing whether its variations precede clinical deterioration is essential for its use in early risk stratification, integrating multiomics research (proteomics, metabolomics, transcriptomics, and lipidomics), which can clarify the biological interactions and regulatory pathways of PLD2 under complex mechanisms. Likewise, well-designed, multicenter, prospective studies will be essential in determining its true clinical value. The research by Wang et al initiates an intriguing direction in the quest for AP biomarkers, but further research is required before PLD2 can be established as a clinically applicable tool. Additional efforts are required to close this gap and define whether its role transcends a mere association in order for it to become a therapeutic target.©The Author(s) 2025. Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights reserved.
In insects, the olfactory system governs physiological and behavioral processes by detecting various odorous molecules. Despite its economic importance and adaptability, the olfactory mechanism of Antheraea pernyi remains insufficiently understood, limiting its potential for pest management and as a model organism. Hence, we aimed to conduct transcriptome sequencing to explore olfactory-related genes in the antennae, serving as the most important olfactory organ in adult A. pernyi.Based on the datasets, 1184 differently expressed genes (DEGs), including 484 upregulated and 700 downregulated genes, were identified by comparing the transcriptome profiles of the male and female antennae of A. pernyi. Moreover, 20, 7, 30, 11, and 2 candidate genes encoding odorant-binding proteins (OBPs), chemosensory proteins (CSPs), odorant receptors (ORs), ionotropic receptors (IRs), and sensory neuron membrane proteins (SNMPs), respectively, involved in pheromone perception, odor binding, pesticide resistance, and growth and development regulation were screened, and most of which were expressed in both male and female antennae while the expression levels of these candidate genes varied significantly between males and females. Multiple sequence alignment indicated that the six OBPs exhibited typical characteristics, containing six conserved Cys residues with the sequence of C1-X26-30-C2-X3-C3-X41-42-C4-X8-10-C5-X8-C6. All CSPs followed a highly conserved pattern with four Cys residues arranged with an exact spacing of C1-X6-C2-X18-19-C3-X2-C4. Different numbers of transmembrane domains were found in ORs, IRs, and SNMPs. In addition, several DEGs involve signal transduction underlying chemoreception were also identified from the transcriptome data, including guanine nucleotide-binding protein (G protein), cGMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA), calmodulin-A (CaM-A), mitogen-activated protein kinase 1 (MAPK1), and phospholipase D2 (PLD2).This study enriches the olfactory gene database of A. pernyi, providing insights into olfactory mechanisms crucial for mating and pest control, with implications for enhancing breeding strategies and ensuring the sustainability of the silk industry. These findings may serve as a theoretical foundation for a better understanding of the olfactory mechanisms of A. pernyi.© 2025. The Author(s).
Loss of proteostasis leads to the accumulation of aberrant proteins, including aggregated proteins and amyloid fibrils, contributing to various diseases. Protein quality control systems are essential for maintaining proteostasis. Although intracellular mechanisms are well characterized, pathways responsible for the degradation of aberrant proteins outside the cell remain poorly understood. We previously identified the chaperone/carrier- and receptor-mediated extracellular protein degradation pathway, in which the extracellular chaperone clusterin binds misfolded proteins and the resulting complex is delivered to lysosomes via endocytosis. However, it remains unclear whether other factors are involved in this pathway. To identify novel regulators, plasma factors binding serum amyloid A1 were investigated. Glycosylphosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase D1 (GPLD1) was found to directly bind serum amyloid A1 and promote its lysosomal degradation. This activity was independent of GPLD1's cleavage activity for GPI-anchored proteins. Furthermore, GPLD1 mediates lysosomal degradation of misfolded proteins, with cell surface heparan sulfate acting as its receptor. Our data demonstrate that GPLD1 is a novel scavenger carrier with substrate specificity distinct from clusterin, responsible for degrading extracellular aberrant proteins.© 2026 Tsuchiya et al.
Physical activity (PA) has numerous positive health effects, including improvements in cognitive function. PA stimulates the release of glycosylphosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase D1 (GPLD1) from the liver, resulting in hippocampal neurogenesis in mice and improved cognition. Interestingly, PA also increases plasma GPLD1 in healthy humans, suggesting a role in cognition, but regulatory factors modulating its concentrations remain unclear. We investigated whether different PA modes, diseases (obesity, hypertension, and diabetes), and age affect plasma GPLD1 levels using three different study cohorts. Plasma GPLD1 levels were analyzed in three studies cohorts comprised of 1) young adults (25 yrs) performing moderate exercise, 2) elderly (68.9 yrs) and 3) of prediabetic subjects (59.4 yrs) performing different habitual PA. We found that prediabetic subjects had higher plasma GPLD1 levels than elderly and young adults. Elderly with diabetes showed significantly higher GPLD1 levels than non-diabetic subjects. In elderly, plasma GPLD1 correlated negatively with average steps, but there was no association after taking their diabetes status into account. GPLD1 exhibited a positive correlation with age in elderly with normal glucose tolerance, and with BMI in subjects with impaired glucose tolerance. Average step numbers negatively correlated with BMI and diastolic BP in the elderly, and BMI in prediabetic subjects. BMI was positively correlated with both diastolic and systolic BP in elderly subjects, and with diastolic BP in young adults. In conclusion age and diabetes affect plasma GPLD1 levels in humans. Age is one of the determining factors, as moderate exercise in young adults did not change plasma GPLD1 levels. Habitual physical activity did not alter plasma GPLD1 levels in individuals with prediabetes or diabetes. The release of GPLD1 into the blood and its mechanistic influences on cognitive functions would need further investigation in humans.Copyright: © 2026 Raza et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) have shown promising antitumor efficacy in certain types of solid tumors. However, the efficacy of ICIs remains unsatisfactory owing to the dysregulation of signaling pathways in local tumor tissues. Here, we reveal that diacylglycerol kinase α (DGKα)-derived phosphatidic acid (PA) directly binds to nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) and enhances the transcriptional activity of NF-κB to increase the expression of programmed cell death 1-ligand 1 (PD-L1) and facilitate the immune evasion of tumor cells and orchestrate immune microenvironment. Inhibition of DGKα activity decreases the intratumoral PD-L1 level and induces cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) infiltration and resultantly enhances the antitumor efficacy of ICIs. Plasma PA can function as a biomarker to evaluate the efficacy of ICIs in gastrointestinal cancers. Overall, our results identify the DGKα/PA axis as a metabolic driver of immune evasion and CTLs exclusion, representing a promising target to enhance ICIs' efficacy in gastrointestinal cancer treatments.© 2026 The Author(s). iMeta published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of iMeta Science.
A recent study by Bieri et al. shows that exercise elevates hepatic glycosylphosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase D1 (GPLD1), which cleaves endothelial tissue-nonspecific alkaline phosphatase (TNAP) to rejuvenate cerebrovascular signaling, enhance cognition in aging, and attenuate Alzheimer's-related pathology. This liver-to-brain enzymatic axis positions hepatokines as potent mediators of exercise-induced neuroprotection, which redefines systemic metabolism as a driver of brain resilience.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Complement dysregulation is frequently implicated in the thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA) known as atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome (aHUS). Diacylglycerol kinase epsilon (DGKE) mutations encode a non-complement regulatory protein, and pathogenic variants in DGKE define a distinct form of aHUS. Indeed, the DGKEgene encodes a key enzyme involved in intracellular signaling. While eculizumab and other anti-C5 monoclonal antibodies are widely used in complement-related aHUS, their relevance in DGKE-associated forms remains controversial. We report a case of a patient followed from the age of eight months for suspected aHUS. Genetic testing, performed only at the age of 13 years, revealed a homozygous DGKE mutation (c.412T>C; p.C138R), despite a typical presentation, including hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, and acute kidney injury. Due to severe disease progression and a fatal family history, empirical eculizumab therapy was initiated. Although the treatment resulted in a stable overall clinical status, relapses manifested as isolated nephrotic-range proteinuria (without hemolysis) on two occasions during treatment interruptions. Complement C3 levels remained consistently within the normal range. In this case, eculizumab did not prevent disease relapses, which occurred in the absence of complement activation. The persistence of proteinuria despite C5 blockade further highlights this distinction. The lack of genetic testing options has led to overtreatment in this patient with that type of mutation, with additional costs associated with the drug (eculizumab) and an increased risk of life-threatening infectious complications for the patient.Copyright © 2026, Chelghoum et al.
BACKGROUND: Diacylglycerol kinase-ε (DGKε) is a unique member of the DGK family with strict specificity toward SAG, stearic/palmitic and arachidonic fatty acid-containing DAG, which produces phosphatidic acid used for the synthesis of phosphatidylinositol (PI). PI and its derivatives orchestrate numerous processes. These include the pro-inflammatory signaling of Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) and its accessory protein, CD14, which are activated in macrophages by bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS). METHODS: To assess the role of DGKε in LPS-induced responses, we obtained Raw264.7 cells stably depleted of DGKε and subsequently rescued them with DGKε-Myc. The DGKε-depleted cells were also treated with a synthetic GPI precursor. To assess the activity of DGKε and other DGKs in cellular fractions, a fluorescent assay was used, followed by thin-layer chromatography. RT-qPCR, immunoblotting, ELISA, and flow cytometry were used to examine protein abundance, LPS-induced signaling, and cytokine production. Cytokine expression was also analyzed after TLR2 activation. Cells were fractionated with Triton X-100 and X-114 to examine the distribution of GPI-anchored proteins (GPI-APs). Dgke was silenced with siRNA in mouse bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDM). RESULTS: SAG phosphorylation was markedly decreased in DGKε-depleted Raw264.7 cells, with the activity of other DGKs unaffected. The DGKε depletion abolished the endosomal TLR4 signaling, engaging TRIF and IRF3. The MyD88-dependent signaling pathway was partially inhibited. No mature, GPI-anchored form of CD14 was produced in the DGKε-depleted cells, and residual amounts of CD14 and other GPI-APs were found on the cell surface. The DGKε depletion also inhibited TLR2-mediated cytokine expression and reduced CD14 level in BMDM. The reintroduction of DGKε in Raw264.7 cells restored SAG phosphorylation, total and cell-surface abundance of GPI-CD14 and other GPI-APs, and TLR4 and TLR2 signaling. Treatment of cells with the synthetic GPI precursor partially restored the cell-surface level of CD14. CONCLUSIONS: DGKε-dependent phosphorylation of SAG controls the biosynthesis of the GPI moiety of CD14, thereby affecting TLR signaling in macrophages. In addition, DGKε can influence the TLR pathways independently of CD14 formation. Together, these findings identify DGKε as a key factor determining the sensitivity of macrophages to LPS and other microbial components.
This study investigated the therapeutic potential of exercise training and the associated role of Glycosylphosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase D1 (GPLD1) in an experimental Alzheimer’s disease (AD) model. Using a D-galactose/AlCl3 induced rodent model, we evaluated behavioral impairments, AD pathological markers, and the expression of key signaling pathways linked to neurodegeneration and neuroprotection, alongside and neurotrophic factors. Male rats were divided into Control, AD, Exercise, and AD + Exercise groups. The AD model exhibited significant deficits in locomotor activity, exploratory behavior, and spatial learning/memory, alongside elevated hippocampal Aβ1–42, tau protein, AChE activity. This was accompanied by overactivation of pathways implicated in neuroinflammation and pathology (NF-κB, mTOR, GSK-3β), and downregulation of pathways crucial for neuronal survival and plasticity (Wnt3a/β-catenin, PI3K/Akt), in addition to reduced GPLD1 and BDNF. Exercise intervention significantly ameliorated these behavioral deficits, increased hippocampal BDNF, GPLD1, and restored activity in pro-survival pathways (Wnt3a/β-catenin, PI3K/Akt) while reducing AD pathology markers. Notably, the AD + Exercise group demonstrated substantial recovery in most parameters compared to the AD group. Furthermore, plasma and liver GPLD1 levels were markedly upregulated by exercise. These findings collectively suggest that exercise training is associated with robust neuroprotection, correlating with systemic GPLD1 upregulation, and highlights the GPLD1 axis for future therapeutic investigation in AD.
To mount a robust T cell-dependent immune response, antigen-specific B lymphocytes require the stimulation of the transmembrane receptor CD40 through immune synapse formation with CD4+ T follicular helper cells. CD40 stimulates the activation of mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) and remodels mitochondria to meet the increased bioenergetic and anabolic demands of activated B cells. Here, we found that diacylglycerol kinase ζ (DGKζ) supported mTORC1 activation downstream of CD40 stimulation in mouse B cells. We showed that DGKζ was required for organellar translocation to the CD40-mediated immune synapse and for the recruitment of mTORC1 to lysosomes, the latter of which was necessary for mTORC1 activation and function. The production of phosphatidic acid by DGKζ was crucial for these processes. DGKζ-/- B cells exhibited defects in protein biosynthesis, metabolite transporter expression, and cell cycle progression, together with dysregulation of the transcriptional network that determines B cell fate. To sustain their bioenergetic and metabolic demands, DGKζ-/- B cells enhanced their mitochondrial function. Together, these effects of DGKζ loss led to decreases in germinal center responses and in the generation of long-lived plasma cells and memory B cells in mice. Thus, our data identify DGKζ as an essential mediator of CD40 functions in the B cell immune response.
Fast- and slow-twitch skeletal muscle fibers exhibit distinct glycerophospholipid compositions, and slow-twitch transition is accompanied by characteristic changes in glycerophospholipid molecular species. However, whether glycerophospholipid composition is remodeled during fast-twitch fiber transition and skeletal muscle hypertrophy remains unclear. In this study, we examined changes in palmitate- and stearate-containing glycerophospholipids using a mouse model of clenbuterol-induced fast-twitch transition and hypertrophy. Clenbuterol administration increased the proportion of fast-twitch fibers and induced skeletal muscle hypertrophy. Lipidomic analysis revealed a significant increase in palmitate-containing phosphatidylcholine and a decrease in stearate-containing phosphatidylcholine in the tibialis anterior and soleus muscles. Consistent with these glycerophospholipid alterations, the expression of several acyltransferases, such as glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase 3 (GPAT3), involved in glycerophospholipid acyl-chain determination was significantly altered. These findings demonstrate that glycerophospholipid composition is remodeled during fast-twitch fiber transition and muscle hypertrophy, highlighting lipid remodeling as a component of skeletal muscle phenotypic adaptation.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) is the most common chronic liver disease, posing public health risks from potential irreversible liver damage. Curcumin (Cur), a polyphenolic compound from Zingiberaceae and Araceae, exhibits antihyperlipidemic and insulin-sensitizing effects. However, its targets and mechanisms in MASLD remain unclear. This study aimed to identify the potential targets and mechanisms by which Cur ameliorates MASLD. Cur markedly improved metabolic disorders and inflammation in rats and reduced intracellular lipid accumulation in HepG2 cells, primary hepatocytes, and AML12 cells. TKFC was identified as a direct target of Cur which binds to TKFC at Val136 and Glu538, thereby activating it. Gene microarray screening showed that Cur down-regulated the mRNA expression of Gpat3. TKFC knockdown attenuated the down-regulation of GPAT3 by Cur, whereas TKFC overexpression reversed this effect. In Tkfc-deficient mice, the therapeutic effects of Cur were attenuated and the down-regulation of GPAT3 and related proteins was hindered, thereby promoting triglyceride production in the liver. Further mechanistic studies revealed that Cur targets TKFC to inhibit GPAT3 expression by modulating the AMPK-STAT3 axis. Our study highlights TKFC as a novel and promising target for MASLD and offers new insights into the molecular mechanisms through which Cur ameliorates MASLD.© 2026 The Authors.
Acute hepatopancreatic necrosis disease (AHPND), caused by a specific strain of Vibrio parahaemolyticus (VpAHPND), disrupts host immune function by promoting the accumulation of lipid droplets (LDs). However, the underlying mechanisms and physiological consequences of LDs accumulation during VpAHPND infection in shrimp remain poorly characterized. In this study, we investigate the role of Penaeus vannamei glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase 3 (PvGPAT3), a key enzyme in triglyceride and LDs biosynthesis, during VpAHPND infection. Transcriptomic analysis and quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) revealed that PvGPAT3 expression is significantly upregulated following VpAHPND infection. Functional assays demonstrated that silencing PvGPAT3 via RNA interference (RNAi) improved shrimp survival and restricted bacterial proliferation, whereas its knockdown attenuated infection-induced LDs accumulation. Conversely, overexpression of PvGPAT3 in High Five cells significantly promoted LDs formation. Mechanistic studies further indicated that PvGPAT3-mediated LDs accumulation contributes to mitochondrial dysfunction and subsequent apoptosis. Collectively, these findings suggest that PvGPAT3 exacerbates VpAHPND pathogenesis by inducing mitochondrial dysfunction and apoptosis through the promotion of LDs accumulation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
BACKGROUND: Atherosclerosis is a chronic immune-metabolic inflammatory disease characterized by dysregulated lipid metabolism. Despite its recognized metabolic basis, biomarkers that reflect coordinated metabolic and immune features remain limited. This study aimed to identify diagnostic biomarkers that capture immune-metabolic features of atherosclerosis. METHODS: Transcriptomic data were obtained from the GEO database. GO and KEGG analyses were performed. WGCNA identified hub genes. ssGSEA was used to evaluate immune cell infiltration. Unsupervised clustering identified atherosclerosis subtypes. Feature genes were selected using machine learning algorithms. Their diagnostic performance was assessed using receiver operating characteristic curve analysis. RESULTS: Integrated transcriptomic and metabolic analyses identified 17 metabolism-related hub genes associated with atherosclerosis. Based on their expression profiles, patients in the training set GSE100927 were stratified into two subtypes. Cluster 2 showed higher immune cell infiltration than Cluster 1. DGKZ and UAP1 were prioritized as feature genes and demonstrated excellent diagnostic performance in GSE100927 (DGKZ: AUC = 0.983, 95% CI: 0.961–1.000; UAP1: AUC = 0.949, 95% CI: 0.906–0.993), with validation in GSE57691 (DGKZ: AUC = 0.900, 95% CI: 0.780–1.000; UAP1: AUC = 0.822, 95% CI: 0.598–1.000) and moderate stage discrimination in GSE28829. Immune correlation analysis showed that DGKZ broadly positively correlated with immune infiltration (max r = 0.83 for MDSCs), whereas UAP1 exhibited predominantly negative correlations (max r = − 0.65 for immature B cells). DGKZ and UAP1 were also strongly negatively correlated in the training set (r = − 0.769), supporting their association with distinct immune-metabolic states. CONCLUSION: DGKZ and UAP1 are potential diagnostic biomarkers for atherosclerosis and reflect immune-metabolic heterogeneity across molecular subtypes.
Adipocytes play a central role in energy balance and metabolic health by storing excess nutrients as triglycerides in white adipose tissue. During physiological stress, sympathetic activation triggers lipolysis, releasing fatty acids and glycerol to meet systemic energy demands. Lipolytic activation in white adipocytes also increases their rate of oxygen consumption. Phosphorylation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) at Ser727 is a key regulatory event in lipolysis-driven respiration. Here, we identify c-Jun N-terminal kinase 1 (JNK1) as the kinase responsible for this essential phosphorylation event and a key regulator of oxidative metabolism in lipolytic adipocytes. We show that fatty acids produced by lipolysis activate JNK, which phosphorylates lipid droplet-associated STAT3, leading to inhibition of glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase 3 and suppression of fatty acid re-esterification. This shift in lipid handling promotes mitochondrial uncoupling and increases energy expenditure. Pharmacological inhibition of JNK1 markedly reduced lipolysis-driven respiration without altering the rate of lipolysis. The critical role of JNK1 in promoting respiration in lipolytic adipocytes was verified using genetic knockdown studies. Notably, canonical upstream mitogen-activated protein kinase kinases were not required for JNK1 activation, suggesting a noncanonical pathway that senses acute increases in intracellular fatty acid levels. Together, these findings identify JNK1 as a metabolic sensor linking intracellular fatty acid levels to STAT3-mediated oxidative metabolism in adipocytes, with potential implications for energy balance and metabolic disease.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Leptin is an adipokine with a role in male reproductive function. Sertoli cells (SCs) express leptin receptors, but leptin effects on SCs' functions have been scarcely researched. SCs support germ cell development by providing various compounds, including transferrin and ketone bodies. Additionally, SC oxidize fatty acids (FAs) as their primary energy source and store them as triacylglycerols (TAGs) within lipid droplets (LDs), which serve as a crucial energy reserve within SCs. In the present study, we investigated whether leptin regulates the secretion and lipid storage in SCs and identified the potential signaling pathways involved. SC cultures were obtained from 20-day-old rats. The results show that leptin does not modify transferrin or 3-hydroxybutyrate secretion. However, it increases LD content and TAG levels in SCs. Leptin also augments the mRNA levels of FA transporter FAT/CD36, glycerol-3-phosphate-acyltransferase 3, and perilipin 1. We then explored the activation and the involvement of JAK/STAT3, PI3K/AKT, mTORC1/p70S6K, and PPARɣ-dependent pathways. Leptin treatment increases phosphorylated STAT3, AKT, and p70S6K levels. Also, leptin augments PPARɣ mRNA levels. In addition, we observed that Wortmannin (PI3K inhibitor), Rapamycin (mTORC1 inhibitor), and T0070907 (PPARɣ antagonist) decrease leptin-stimulated LD content, but Stattic (STAT3 inhibitor) has no effect. These results suggest that leptin regulates LD content through the activation of PI3K/AKT, mTORC1/p70S6K, and PPARɣ-dependent pathways. This study reveals that leptin increases lipid storage in SCs, a role that may help meet the seminiferous tubules' demand for FAs.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. and Société Française de Biochimie et Biologie Moléculaire (SFBBM). All rights reserved.
Moxibustion has been shown to protect against myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury (MIRI) by regulating mitochondrial function. Whether it preserves the structural integrity essential for this function remains unknown. Based on the critical role of cardiolipin (CL) in mitochondrial membranes, this study aimed to investigate whether CL serves as a novel target of moxibustion-mediated cardioprotection.A rat model of MIRI was established by ligating the left anterior descending (LAD) coronary artery for 30 min followed by 7 days of reperfusion. Moxibustion was applied to Neiguan acupoint (PC6) every other day during reperfusion. Moxibustion exerted significant cardioprotective effects by reducing interstitial fibrosis, alleviating cardiac hypertrophy, and improving cardiac function. Mechanistically, moxibustion attenuated oxidative stress-mediated mitochondrial injury, as shown by decreased ROS, 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE), total oxidative status (TOS), and oxidative stress index (OSI) levels, increased total antioxidant capacity (TAC), and preserved mitochondrial cristae structure. Moreover, moxibustion restored total CL levels, concomitant with downregulation of Acyl-CoA:lysocardiolipin acyltransferase-1 (ALCAT1) and reduction of cytosolic cytochrome c (Cyt c). Moxibustion also upregulated AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) phosphorylation, an effect reversed by Compound C which also largely abolished the cardioprotective effects, suggesting AMPK involvement.This study provides evidence for the involvement of the AMPK-oxidative stress-CL axis in moxibustion-mediated cardioprotection, highlighting the potential of moxibustion as a non-pharmacological intervention for ischemic heart disease.Copyright © 2026 Zhou, Xu, He, Liang, Xia, Chen, Zuo, Chen, Gu and Zhang.
Integration of multienvironment QTL mapping and GWAS revealed three candidate genes-ZmFum1, ZmDGAT1-1, and ZmLPAAT4-as potential key regulators of maize kernel oil content. With an exceptional energy density and high polyunsaturated fatty acid content, maize oil positions high-oil maize as multifunctional feedstocks. Exploring the genetic architecture of oil content (OC) in maize kernel is crucial for breeding high-oil maize varieties. Herein, a combination of genome-wide association study and linkage mapping was employed to explore the quantitative trait loci (QTL) and candidate genes underlying the OC in maize kernel under four environments. Linkage mapping identified 17 QTLs for the OC, among which three QTL were repeatedly detected under multiple environments. GWAS revealed 17 OC-associated SNPs, of which 12 SNPs had large phenotype contribution rates with one accounting for 17.2% of the phenotypic variance. By integrating three multienvironment QTL identified through linkage mapping with the 17 most significant SNPs detected by GWAS, a total of 1142 genes were identified as the candidate genes. Based on the functional annotations, expression profiling, and gene-based association analysis, three candidate genes were prioritized: Zm00001d029084, Zm00001d037760, and Zm00001d043267, which encode fumarate hydratase 1 (ZmFum1), diacylglycerol acyltransferase-type I2 (ZmDGAT1-1), and 1-acyl-sn-glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase 4 (ZmLPAAT4), respectively. The SNPs in the coding sequences of Zm00001d029084 and Zm00001d037760 were significantly associated with OC and result in amino acid substitutions, whereas the promoter and 3'UTR regions of Zm00001d043267 each harbor an SNP significantly associated with OC. These findings provide valuable insights into the genetic basis of OC and highlight potential targets for marker-assisted selection in high-oil maize breeding.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Pressure overload-induced heart failure is a major cause of fatality in patients with heart diseases. At present, there exists no highly effective treatment for this incapacitating condition. Cardiolipin (CL) is a mitochondrial specific phospholipid that plays an essential role in cardiac health. Depletion of tetralinoleoyl CL (TLCL), the signature CL species, is implicated in human and animal models of heart failure. We investigated whether pathological CL remodelling by lysocardiolipin acyltransferase-1 (ALCAT1) promotes the progression of left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy induced by pressure overload by depleting TLCL in the heart and underlying molecular mechanisms.We identified a remarkable causative role of ALCAT1 in promoting the development of pressure overload hypertrophy in a mouse model of heart failure by transverse aortic constriction (TAC). We show that ALCAT1 expression in the heart is dramatically upregulated by TAC. Consequently, deletion or inhibition of ALCAT1 through targeted genetic manipulation or pharmacological intervention with Dafaglitapin (Dafa), a highly potent and specific small molecular inhibitor, effectively mitigates pressure overload hypertrophy and its related pathogenesis, including cardiomyopathy, cardiac dysfunction, inflammation, and fibrosis by preventing mitochondrial dysfunction in the heart. Furthermore, ablation or inhibition of ALCAT1 not only restores TLCL level but also mitochondrial function and the related signal transduction pathways underlying these disorders, including mTORC1 signalling, oxidative stress, inflammation, and apoptosis in the heart of TAC mice.In summary, these findings identified ALCAT1 not only as a key mediator of mitochondrial aetiology of pressure overload-induced heart failure but also a novel drug target for hypertensive heart failure and Dafa as a potential treatment for the disorder.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Metabolic-associated fatty liver disease (MAFLD) is a common metabolic disease with complex pathogenesis and lack of effective treatment. Si-Ni-San (SNS), a traditional Chinese medicine, has emerged as a promising candidate for MAFLD treatment. However, the protective mechanism remains unclear.C57BL/6N mice were fed with high-fat diet (HFD) for 12 weeks to establish MAFLD mouse model. Concurrently, oleic acid-induced HepG2 cells were used in vitro as a cellular model for MAFLD. The effects of SNS and the positive drug obeticholic acid on hepatic lipid droplets deposition in MAFLD mice and cell models were evaluated. The expression levels of farnesoid X receptor (FXR) and glycerol 3-phosphate acyltransferase 4 (GPAT4) were detected by western blot. The siRNA and dual-luciferase reporter assay were used to detect the interaction between FXR and GPAT4. High-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) was used to identify the active components in the SNS aqueous solution, and their binding affinities to targets were detected through molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulations, and surface plasmon resonance (SPR).The active ingredients of SNS were identified by HPLC. SNS ameliorated hepatic lipid droplets deposition in both mouse and cellular models of MAFLD. SNS up-regulated the expression of FXR and down-regulated the expression of GPAT4 in hepatic tissues, thereby modulating proteins involved in hepatic lipolysis and lipophagy. FXR reduced lipid droplets accumulation by inhibiting GPAT4. The dual-luciferase reporter assay confirmed that FXR transcriptionally regulated and inhibited GPAT4 expression. Furthermore, molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations predicted potential interactions between the active components of SNS and the FXR and GPAT4 proteins, with the binding affinity for FXR being subsequently confirmed through SPR analysis.This study provided a new mechanistic exploration for FXR in improving MAFLD and broadened the research direction on the mechanisms by which SNS reduced hepatic lipid droplets deposition. It also offers a molecular dynamics basis for subsequent studies on how active components in SNS exert their effects through binding to FXR.© 2026. The Author(s).
KRAS mutated at hotspots G12, G13, and Q61 possess profound allele-specific oncogenesis. Signaling of KRAS mutants is mostly compartmentalized to the proteolipid nanoclusters on the plasma membrane (PM), illustrating critical roles of spatiotemporal organization in KRAS cancer signaling. The activated GTP-bound KRAS molecules, including the wild type and mutants, have been traditionally thought to favor similar lipids. We recently reported distinct lipid sensing capabilities of different KRAS mutants, especially with KRASG12D favoring unsaturated lipids and KRASG12C gaining additional enrichment of saturated lipids. As such, KRAS mutants may respond to lipid acyl chain remodeling in an allele-specific manner. Lysophosphatidylcholine acyltransferase 1 (LPCAT1) facilitates the incorporation of saturated fatty acid chains to phospholipids. Here, we found that cells stably expressing LPCAT1 contain higher levels of saturated lipids and lower levels of unsaturated PS species. Electron microscopy-spatial analysis revealed that LPCAT1 expression disrupts the nanoclustering of KRASG12D on the PM, without affecting that of KRASG12C and HRASG12V. Elevation of LPCAT1 expression suppresses signaling, proliferation, and colony formation of KRASG12D-expressing human pancreatic cancer cells, while promoting those of KRASG12C-expressing cells. Knocking out LPCAT1 depletes saturated lipids and reduces colony formation of KRASG12C cells. We further found that changing LPCAT1 expression specifically targets KRAS mutant-expressing cells, without affecting cells expressing WT KRAS. Mouse embryonic fibroblasts transformed with KRASG12C also contain more saturated lipids than KRASG12D MEFs. Thus, activities of KRAS mutants depends on lipid acyl chain remodeling in an allele-specific manner.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Late-onset silicosis is characterized by the progression of pulmonary fibrosis long after cessation of silica exposure, yet its underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. This study aimed to determine whether a brief silica exposure could initiate a sustaining fibrotic process and to characterize the associated pathological and molecular alterations. A rat model of silicosis was established by short-term silica inhalation for two weeks, followed by a recovery period of up to 46 weeks. Histopathological and micro-CT analyses demonstrated progressive fibrotic development even after exposure cessation. Notably, fibrotic pulmonary dust foci (fPDFs) emerged as a predominant lesion, characterized by alveolar remodeling and diffuse collagen deposition distinct from classical silicotic nodules. These lesions were associated with alveolar type II (AT2) cell dysfunction, evidenced by aberrant differentiation, loss of homeostatic markers such as ATP-binding cassette subfamily A member 3 (ABCA3), lysophosphatidylcholine acyltransferase 1 (LPCAT1), and fatty acid synthase (FAS), and gain of transitional markers keratin 8 (KRT8) and stratifin (SFN). Integrated proteomic and lipidomic analyses revealed profound metabolic reprogramming, with significant dysregulation of lipid metabolism pathways. Key enzymes involved in lipid synthesis and remodeling were identified in AT2 cells and downregulated in fPDF regions. Our findings establish that short-term silica exposure initiates a sustaining fibrotic cascade, highlight fPDFs as a critical pathological entity, and suggest that AT2 cell dysfunction and metabolic reprogramming are closely associated with the progression of silicosis, highlighting them as potential key correlates of the sustaining fibrotic cascade. These insights provide a novel framework for understanding disease progression and identifying therapeutic targets.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide, with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) accounting for 80-85% of cases. Cisplatin (DDP) is a first-line chemotherapy drug for NSCLC, but acquired DDP resistance severely limits therapeutic efficacy. Lysophosphatidylcholine acyltransferase 1 (LPCAT1) is involved in tumor progression, but its role in DDP resistance of NSCLC remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the regulatory mechanism of LPCAT1 in DDP-resistant NSCLC and explore the potential role of tripartite motif-containing 33 (TRIM33) in modulating LPCAT1.DDP-resistant NSCLC cell lines (A549/DDP, PC-9/DDP) were established by gradual concentration gradient induction. Cell viability was detected by cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) assay to determine half-maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50) and resistance index (RI). Glucose uptake, intracellular ATP, and lactate levels were measured to evaluate glycolytic activity. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and Western blotting were used to detect mRNA and protein expression of LPCAT1, TRIM33, and PI3K/AKT pathway-related molecules. Flow cytometry was employed to analyze cell apoptosis. Immunoprecipitation and ubiquitination assays verified the interaction between TRIM33 and LPCAT1. In vivo xenograft models were established to confirm the regulatory role of LPCAT1 and TRIM33 in DDP resistance. Statistical analyses included Student's t-test, one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA), and Student-Newman-Keuls test, with P < 0.05 considered statistically significant.LPCAT1 protein expression was significantly upregulated in DDP-resistant NSCLC cells, while mRNA expression showed no significant difference. LPCAT1 overexpression enhanced DDP resistance, activated the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway, and promoted glycolysis in NSCLC cells, whereas LPCAT1 knockdown reversed these effects. TRIM33 expression was negatively correlated with DDP resistance, and TRIM33 directly interacted with LPCAT1 to promote its ubiquitination and degradation via the proteasomal pathway. Overexpression of TRIM33 inhibited the PI3K/AKT pathway and glycolysis, thereby sensitizing DDP-resistant cells to DDP. In vivo experiments confirmed that LPCAT1 promoted DDP resistance and tumor growth, while TRIM33 overexpression reversed this phenotype.TRIM33 regulates LPCAT1 stability through ubiquitination-mediated degradation, thereby suppressing PI3K/AKT signaling and glycolysis and attenuating DDP resistance in NSCLC. These findings suggest that the TRIM33-LPCAT1 axis may represent a potential therapeutic candidate for DDP-resistant NSCLC and provide a basis for further investigation of strategies to improve DDP sensitivity.Copyright 2026 Authors.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) has become one of the most important diseases due to its increasing morbidity and mortality. Lysophosphatidylcholine acyltransferase 1 (LPCAT1) is reported to be overexpressed in multiple cancers, but their role remains poorly understood. In this study, we explored the role of LPCAT1 in the progression of CRC and the possible underlying mechanism. Bioinformatics analysis was used to search for the association between target gene LPCAT1 and CRC. LPCAT1 expression was measured in CRC and paired para cancerous tissues. The role of LPCAT1 was investigated both in vitro and in vivo. iTRAQ-based quantitative proteomics was used to explore the mechanism of LPCAT1 in CRC progression. TCGA and GEO database analysis showed that LPCAT1 was upregulated in CRC. LPCAT1 was upregulated in CRC tissues and the IHC score was also correlated with tumor stage. The depletion of LPCAT1 not only abrogated cell proliferation, migration and invasion in vitro, but also arrested tumor growth in vivo. The proteomic results showed that differentially expressed proteins were enriched in multiple pathways after LPCAT1 knockdown, and the extracellular matrix (ECM) receptor interaction pathway was the most significant. The ECM is involved in the process by which LPCAT1 promotes CRC metastasis and invasion.
Absence of the endosomal SNAREs vti1a and vti1b results in perinatal death and severe neuronal phenotypes in mice, while lack of one of these proteins results in minor phenotypes. Proteomic differences were investigated to obtain a deeper insight into processes in which vti1a and vti1b are involved. Here we applied a bottom-up shotgun proteomic approach to investigate the differences in wild-type, double heterozygous (DHET), vti1a-/- vti1b-/- double knockout (DKO), vti1a-/- knockout and vti1b-/- knockout cerebral cortices. Single deletions did not affect protein levels significantly. A total of 1725 proteins were detected of which 69 were less abundant and 191 proteins were more abundant in DKO cortices. Many less abundant proteins belonged to cellular components and reactome pathways synapse, synaptic vesicle cycle, vesicle mediated transport, L1CAM interaction, and cholesterol biosynthesis in pathway enrichment analysis. More abundant proteins were enriched in cellular components and Kyoto Encyclopaedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG)-pathways such as spliceosome, ribosome, carbon metabolism, and ribonucleoprotein complex. Immunoblotting validated reduced expression levels of the tested synaptic vesicle proteins as well as increased amounts of lysophosphatidylcholine acyltransferase 1 (Lpcat1) and neuron-specific gene 2 (Nsg2), which is involved in postsynaptic AMPA-receptor recycling. These data indicate that the synapse and cell adhesion were strongly affected in DKO brains. STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE OF THE STUDY: Distinct populations of neurons and glia cells are generated and organize into layers during brain development. Neurons develop an elaborate morphology to transmit information via axons and synapses to dendrites in receiving neurons. These neurites form via several specialized pathways of vesicle secretion and endocytosis. Fusion between these membranes requires members of the SNARE protein family. Double knockouts of the endosomal SNAREs vti1a and vti1b (DKO) result in perinatal lethality in mice with massive defects in the brain. In this study we compared the proteome of DKO brain cortices with double heterozygous controls to obtain insights into the molecular alterations and affected pathways. DKO brains contained lower amounts of synaptic proteins and proteins involved in cell adhesion, membrane trafficking and cholesterol biosynthesis. Several proteins of spliceosomes, ribosomes and carbon metabolism were more abundant in DKO brains, which may be a consequence of the reduced amounts of synaptic proteins or a shift in cell populations. Lysophosphatidylcholine acyltransferase 1 (Lpcat1) and neuron-specific gene 2 (Nsg2), which is involved in α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptor (AMPAR) recycling, were confirmed to be more abundant by Western blotting. These data point to defects in trafficking especially in the synapse and in cell adhesion, which is required for neurite outgrowth.© 2026 The Author(s). PROTEOMICS published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Metabolic dysregulation is increasingly recognized as a driver of tumor progression, yet its specific role in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) remains poorly characterized. This study integrated untargeted metabolomics of HNSCC patient tissues with multi-omics validation to identify key metabolic alterations. We discovered a significant accumulation of sn-2 saturated fatty acyl-phosphatidylcholines, implicating disrupted phospholipid remodeling in HNSCC pathogenesis. Analysis of The Cancer Genome Atlas and Human Protein Atlas databases revealed consistent upregulation of lysophosphatidylcholine acyltransferase 1 (LPCAT1) in HNSCC. This finding was further validated at mRNA, protein, and tissue levels by quantitative PCR, western blotting, and immunohistochemistry, respectively. Functional assays demonstrated that LPCAT1 knockdown suppressed tumor cell proliferation, migration, and invasion while increasing cell death in vitro, and inhibited tumor growth in nude mouse xenograft models. Mechanistically, LPCAT1 depletion impaired mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation by reducing Cytochrome c oxidase activity, thereby decreasing ATP production. Our data further demonstrate that LPCAT1 regulates the expression of COX17, suggesting that the promotion of Cytochrome c oxidase activity and tumor bioenergetics by LPCAT1 is mediated through COX17. Thus, LPCAT1 drives HNSCC progression via a COX17-dependent metabolic reprogramming pathway. Targeting LPCAT1 represents a promising therapeutic strategy, while tissue-saturated fatty acyl-phosphatidylcholines may serve as early diagnostic biomarkers for HNSCC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Osteoporosis (OP) is a multifactorial disease, leading to abnormal bone remodeling, requiring targeted therapeutic interventions. This study investigated the pharmacological effects of Hederagenin (Hed), a triterpenoid saponin, in ovariectomized (OVX) mice. Hed treatment significantly ameliorated bone loss by improving trabecular microstructure and reducing osteoclast formation and activity. Integrated metabolomics and network pharmacology revealed that Hed primarily restored glycerophospholipid metabolic homeostasis and suppressed oxidative stress. Crucially, biochemical assays demonstrated that Hed treatment significantly elevated superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione (GSH) levels, while reducing malondialdehyde (MDA) and oxidized low-density lipoprotein (ox-LDL) accumulation. Concurrently, quantitative reverse transcription PCR (qRT-PCR) and Western blot analyses confirmed that Hed downregulated the expression of lipogenic genes and the key enzyme lysophosphatidylcholine acyltransferase 1 (Lpcat1). Machine learning-based transcriptomics identified prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthase 2 (PTGS2) as a pivotal target associated with lipid peroxidation, with signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) acting as its upstream transcriptional regulator. Subsequent experiments revealed that Hed upregulated glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) expression, thereby reducing phosphorylated STAT1 (p-STAT1) levels and suppressing PTGS2 levels. Mechanistically, Hed modulates the GPX4/p-STAT1/PTGS2 axis to inhibit lipid peroxidation, thereby alleviating OVX-induced bone loss. These findings unveil Hed as a promising therapeutic candidate and provide novel mechanistic insights into the treatment of osteoporosis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2) regulates cellular metabolism under stress. However, mechanisms involving PKM2 modification in cholesterol-loaded macrophages remain unclear. In this study, we first characterized the impact of cholesterol loading on macrophage functional and metabolic alterations. Although cholesterol loading did not alter PKM2 expression, it regulated PKM2 function by promoting its acetylation. Specifically, PKM2 acetylation at lysine 433 (K433) exacerbated cholesterol-induced metabolic disorders and inflammation, whereas K433 mutations ameliorated these effects. Mechanistically, cholesterol activated the p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway, inducing activating transcription factor 2 (ATF2) and upregulating lysophosphatidylcholine acyltransferase 1 (LPCAT1) to promote PKM2 acetylation. Collectively, PKM2 acetylation mediates cholesterol-induced metabolic and functional reprogramming in macrophages, highlighting the novel p38-ATF2-LPCAT1-PKM2 axis in immune stress signaling.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40508223 is a review article
BACKGROUND: Pentadecanoic acid (C15:0) is an odd-chain fatty acid (OCFA) with significant health benefits, its content in milk is regulated by both ruminal microbial metabolism and mammary gland synthesis. To investigate the regulatory mechanisms of C15:0 synthesis, we conducted 16S rRNA sequencing and ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (UHPLC-MS/MS) of ruminal fluid of Chinese Holstein dairy cows with low (1.03 ± 0.01%, Low group) and high (1.39 ± 0.06%, High group) milk C15:0 content. Additionally, an in vitro study was performed using key ruminal metabolite to culture bovine mammary epithelial cells (BMECs). RESULTS: Ruminal propionate level increased in the High group. 16S rRNA sequencing identified 3 bacterial species with differential abundance, including higher levels of Prevotella_bryantii and Lachnospiraceae_bacterium_DJF_B223 in the High group, while lower level of Fibrobacter_sp_UWH4. Metabolomic analysis revealed 7 differential metabolites (mean decrease accuracy > 0 and p < 0.05), primarily lipid metabolites, amino acid derivatives, and compounds linked to energy metabolism and signaling. These metabolites were enriched in carbohydrate and amino acid metabolic pathways. Correlation analysis indicated positive associations among milk C15:0 content, the increased bacterial species, and the differential metabolite propionylcarnitine (PLC). Consequently, PLC was selected for in vitro study which demonstrated that 100 µM PLC for 24 h treatment enhanced BMECs proliferation, increased C15:0 content, and decreased C17:0 content compared with BMECs treated without PLC. The RNA-seq identified 536 differentially expressed genes (DEGs; p < 0.05 and fold change > 1.2) between the two BMECs groups. PLC upregulated the expression of DEGs related to lipid metabolism, including hydroxysteroid 17-beta dehydrogenase 4 (HSD17B4), glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase, mitochondrial (GPAM), and CD36 molecule (CD36), while western blotting demonstrated that the protein expression of HSD17B4 was also upregulated. KEGG enrichment analysis showed 536 DEGs were enriched in peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors signaling pathway, biosynthesis of unsaturated fatty acids, lipid and atherosclerosis. CONCLUSIONS: The Higher abundance of Prevotella_bryantii and Lachnospiraceae_bacterium_DJF_B223 in the rumen of dairy cows related with the higher level of PLC, and more PLC was transported to the mammary gland. In BMECs, PLC enhanced C15:0 synthesis via upregulating the peroxisomal β‑oxidation mediated by HSD17B4.
Intramuscular fat (IMF) content is a key indicator of yak meat quality. This study aimed to identify lncRNAs that regulate IMF deposition in yaks. Three male calf yaks (3 months) and three male adult yaks (3 years) were used in the current study. After slaughter, the tissue morphology of the longissimus dorsi (LD) muscle was assessed using a cry-sectioning technique and differentially expressed lncRNAs and mRNAs (DELs and DEMs) were identified using RNA-Seq technology. The diameter and volume of fat droplets were significantly larger and bigger, respectively, in adults than in calves (P < 0.001). A total of 37,790 genes and 16,400 lncRNAs that regulate fat deposition were identified. Among them, 2327 mRNAs and 474 lncRNAs were differentially expressed between calves and adult yaks. DEGs stearoyl-CoA desaturase (SCD), fatty acid synthase (FASN), fatty acid binding protein 4 (FABP4) and fibronectin 1 (FN1) and DELs MSTRG.15795.4 and MSTRG.35028.6 were screened. The enrichment and pathway analysis regulated by the DMEs and DELs were predicted. We found significantly enriched biological processes and pathways involved in fat deposition, including the biosynthesis of unsaturated fatty acids, fatty acid biosynthesis, fatty acid elongation, and the mTOR signaling pathway. Co-expression network of the DELs and related genes, including MSTRG.10268.1-placenta associated 8 (PLAC8), MSTRG.16223.1-galectin 3 (LGALS3), MSTRG.34732.1-glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase, mitochondrial (GPAM), MSTRG.11907.11-fibroblast growth factor 1 (FGF1), MSTRG.34342.1-lipase A, lysosomal acid type (LIPA), and MSTRG.1667.2-integrin subunit beta 2 (ITGB2) was constructed. RT-qPCR verified the sequence results. The molecular regulatory mechanisms of lncRNAs on intramuscular fat deposition in yak were further explored.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
NXT629, a PPAR-alpha antagonist, exerts widespread effects in many diseases; however, its function and relevant mechanism in cholesterol gallstones (CG) remain largely unknown.Male C57BL/6 J mice were fed a regular diet or lithogenic diet (LD), followed by treatment with intraperitoneal injection of NXT629. H&E staining was performed to analyze hepatic pathological changes, and Oil red O staining was conducted to detect lipid accumulation. Concentrations of total cholesterol (TC), triglyceride (TG), phospholipids (PL), total bile acids (TBA), and cholesterol saturation index (CSI) in both bile and serum were analyzed using commercially available kits. The mRNA expressions of ABCG5/8, CYP7A1, CYP7B1, PPAR-α, and ABCB11 in mouse liver tissues were measured by qRT-PCR assay. Overexpression of glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase mitochondrial (GPAM) was constructed to investigate the molecular mechanism of NXT629 in CG.NXT629 could prevent the formation of cholesterol gallstones (CG) and improve lipid metabolic disorders in mice fed a lithogenic diet (LD). Treatment with NXT629 significantly reduced the levels of ABCG5, ABCG8, and ABCB11, while increasing the levels of CYP7A1 and CYP7B1 in the LD group. Additionally, NXT629 treatment downregulated GPAM expression in hepatic tissue from LD-fed mice. Overexpression of GPAM partially counteracted the beneficial effects of NXT629 on CG formation, lipid metabolic disorders, and lipid-related gene expressions.NXT629 can inhibit CG formation, improve lipid metabolism disorders and cholesterol homeostasis by inhibiting GPAM expression, suggesting that NXT629 may serve as a potential therapeutic strategy for cholesterol stones prevention and treatment.© 2024. The Author(s).
AGPAT2 (1-acyl-sn-glycerol-3-phosphate-acyltransferase-2) converts lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) into phosphatidic acid (PA), and mutations of the AGPAT2 gene cause the most common form of congenital generalized lipodystrophy which leads to steatohepatitis. The underlying mechanism by which AGPAT2 deficiency leads to lipodystrophy and steatohepatitis has not been elucidated. We addressed this question using an antisense oligonucleotide (ASO) to knockdown expression of Agpat2 in the liver and white adipose tissue (WAT) of adult male Sprague-Dawley rats. Agpat2 ASO treatment induced lipodystrophy and inflammation in WAT and the liver, which was associated with increased LPA content in both tissues, whereas PA content was unchanged. We found that a controlled-release mitochondrial protonophore (CRMP) prevented LPA accumulation and inflammation in WAT whereas an ASO against glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase, mitochondrial (Gpam) prevented LPA content and inflammation in the liver in Agpat2 ASO-treated rats. In addition, we show that overnutrition, due to high sucrose feeding, resulted in increased hepatic LPA content and increased activated macrophage content which were both abrogated with Gpam ASO treatment. Taken together, these data identify LPA as a key mediator of liver and WAT inflammation and lipodystrophy due to AGPAT2 deficiency as well as liver inflammation due to overnutrition and identify LPA as a potential therapeutic target to ameliorate these conditions.
Geese evolved from migratory birds, and when they consume excessive high-energy feed, glucose is converted into triglycerides. A large amount of triglyceride deposition can induce incomplete oxidation of fatty acids, leading to lipid accumulation in the liver and the subsequent formation of fatty liver. In the Chaoshan region of Guangdong, China, Shitou geese develop a unique form of fatty liver through 24 h overfeeding of brown rice. To investigate the mechanisms underlying the formation of fatty liver in Shitou geese, we collected liver samples from normally fed and overfed geese. The results showed that the liver size in the treatment group was significantly larger, weighing 3.5 times more than that in the control group. Extensive infiltration of lipid droplets was observed in the liver upon staining of tissue sections. Biochemical analysis revealed that compared to the control group, the treatment group showed significantly elevated levels of total cholesterol (T-CHO), triglycerides (TG), and glycogen in the liver. However, no significant differences were observed in the levels of alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST), which are common indicators of liver damage. Furthermore, we performed a combined transcriptomic and lipidomic analysis of the liver samples and identified 1,510 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and 1,559 significantly differentially abundant metabolites (SDMs). The enrichment analysis of the DEGs revealed their enrichment in metabolic pathways, cellular process-related signaling pathways, and specific lipid metabolism pathways. We also conducted KEGG enrichment analysis of the SDMs and compared them with the enriched signaling pathways obtained from the DEGs. In this study, we identified 3 key signaling pathways involved in the formation of fatty liver in Shitou geese, namely, the biosynthesis of unsaturated fatty acids, glycerol lipid metabolism, and glycerophospholipid metabolism. In these pathways, genes such as glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase, mitochondrial (GPAM), 1-acylglycerol-3-phosphate O-acyltransferase 2 (AGPAT2), diacylglycerol O-acyltransferase 2 (DGAT2), lipase, endothelial (LIPG), lipoprotein lipase (LPL), phospholipase D family member 4 (PLD4), and phospholipase A2 group IVF (PLA2G4F) may regulate the synthesis of metabolites, including triacylglycerol (TG), phosphatidate (PA), 1,2-diglyceride (DG), phosphatidylethanolamine (PE), and phosphatidylcholine (PC). These genes and metabolites may play a predominant role in the development of fatty liver, ultimately promoting the accumulation of TG in the liver and leading to the progression of fatty liver.Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Plasmalogens (Plgs) are highly abundant lipids in the retina, and their deficiency leads to severe abnormalities during eye development. The first acylation step in the synthesis of Plgs is catalyzed by the enzyme glyceronephosphate O-acyltransferase (GNPAT), which is also known as dihydroxyacetone phosphate-acyltransferase (EC 2.3.1.42). GNPAT deficiency produces rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata type 2, a genetic disorder associated with developmental ocular defects. Despite the relevance of retinal Plgs, our knowledge of the mechanisms that regulate their synthesis, and the role of GNPAT during eye development is limited.Using the Xenopus laevis model organism, we characterized by in situ hybridization the expression pattern of gnpat and compared it to glycerol 3-phosphate acyltransferase mitochondrial (gpam or gpat1) during eye neurogenesis, lamination, and morphogenesis. The Xenopus Gnpat was biochemically characterized in a heterologous expression system in yeast.During development, gnpat is expressed in proliferative cells of the retina and lens, and post-embryogenesis in proliferative cells of the ciliary marginal zone and lens epithelium. In contrast, gpam expression is mainly restricted to photoreceptors. Xenopus Gnpat expressed in yeast is present in both soluble and membrane fractions, but only the membrane-bound enzyme displays activity. The amino terminal of Gnpat, conserved in humans, shows lipid binding capacity that is enhanced by phosphatidic acid.Enzymes involved in the Plgs and glycerophospholipid biosynthetic pathways are differentially expressed during eye morphogenesis. The gnpat expression pattern and the molecular determinants regulating Gnpat activity advance our knowledge of this enzyme, contributing to our understanding of the retinal pathophysiology associated with GNPAT deficiency.
The circadian clock confers daily rhythmicity to many crucial biological processes and behaviors and its disruption is closely associated with carcinogenesis in several types of cancer. Brain and muscle arnt-like protein 1 (BMAL1) is a core circadian rhythm component in mammals and its dysregulation has been shown to contribute to aberrant metabolism in human diseases. However, the biological functions of BMAL1, especially its involvement in aberrant lipid metabolism in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), remain elusive. In the present study, we found that BMAL1 was frequently down-regulated in HCC cells mainly due to the up-regulation of miR-494-3p. Down-regulation of BMAL1 was significantly associated with poor survival in HCC patients. BMAL1 down-regulation promoted HCC cell growth and metastasis both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, through cooperating with EZH2, BMAL1 transcriptionally suppressed the expression of glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase mitochondrial (GPAM), a key enzyme involved in the regulation of lipid biosynthesis, leading to reduced levels lysophosphatidic acid (LPA), which have long been known as mediator of oncogenesis. Particularly, treatment with SR8278, an activator of BMAL1, exhibited a therapeutic effect on HCC in vitro and in vivo. In conclusion, BMAL1 plays a critical anti-oncogenic role in HCC, providing strong research evidence for BMAL1 as a prospective target for HCC therapy.© The author(s).
Glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase mitochondrial (GPAM) is an enzyme in animal lipid metabolism pathways that catalyzes the initial and most committed step of glycerolipid biosynthesis. The present study mainly focused on exploring the relationship between the GPAM gene and the lipid metabolism of mammary epithelial cells and the effect of GPAM on the related pathways of lipid metabolism. The GPAM gene was knocked out entirely in bovine mammary epithelial cells(BMECs) using CRISPR/Cas9 technology, and the mechanism by which the GPAM gene regulates lipid metabolism in BMECs was confirmed. Furthermore, after the complete loss of GPAM, BMECs' triglycerides (TGs) and cholesterol (CHOL) levels were significantly decreased (p < 0.05). Concurrently, the content of octanoic acid, a medium-chain saturated fatty acid, increased substantially in BMECs. RNA-seq of GPAM-/- BMECs revealed that GPAM could affect the expression of genes related to lipid metabolism, downregulated the expression of Acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 5 (ACSL5), Fatty Acid Binding Protein 3 (FABP3), Hormone-sensitive lipase (HSL), Protease, serine-2 (PRSS2), 1-Acylglycerol-3-Phosphate O Acyltransferase 4 (AGPAT4), and regulated the milk synthesis metabolism pathway.The findings revealed that a number of genes were expressed, a number of genes were differentially expressed genes (DEGs), and a number of GO terms were enriched, with a number of GO terms considerably increased. Further, the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were significantly enriched in Fat digestion and absorption pathway, Fatty acid metabolic pathway, Biosynthesis of unsaturated fatty acids, Biosynthesis of unsaturated fatty acids and steroids, NF-kappa B signalling pathway, MAPK signalling pathway. In conclusion, the current research results show that GPAM is a crucial regulator of BMEC lipid metabolism. GPAM-/- BMEC may also become useful genetic materials and tools for future research on gene functions related to lipid and fatty acid metabolism. This study will contribute to the discovery of gene regulation and molecular mechanisms in milk fat synthesis.Copyright © 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Clonorchiasis is recognized as an important zoonotic parasitic disease worldwide. However, the roles of host long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) and messenger RNAs (mRNAs) in the response to Clonorchis sinensis (C. sinensis) infection remain unknown. Here we compared the expression of lncRNAs and mRNAs in the liver tissue of mice infected with C. sinensis, in order to further understand the molecular mechanisms of clonorchiasis. A total of 388 lncRNAs and 1,172 mRNAs were found to be differentially expressed with absolute value of fold change (FC) ≥ 2.0 and p < 0.05 by microarray. Compared with controls, Gm6135 and 4930581F22Rik were the most over- and under-expressed lncRNAs; flavin-containing monooxygenase 3 (Fmo3) and deleted in malignant brain tumors 1 (Dmbt1) were the most over- and under-expressed mRNAs. Moreover, functional annotation showed that the significantly different mRNAs were related with "FOXO signaling pathway", "Wnt signaling pathway", and "AMPK signaling pathway". Remarkably, lncRNA Gm8801 were significantly correlated with mRNA glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase mitochondrial (Gpam), insulin receptor substrate 2 (Irs2), and tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily member 19 (Tnfrsf19) in ceRNA networks. These results showed that the expression profiles of lncRNAs and mRNAs in the liver changed after C. sinensis infection. Our results provided valuable insights into the lncRNAs and mRNAs involved in clonorchiasis pathogenesis, which may be useful for future control strategies.Copyright © 2022 Han, Zhang, Jiang, Li, Ding, Zuo, Duan, Chen, Sun, Hu, Gao and Zhang.
The development of cancerous cells leads to considerable changes in metabolic processes to meet the demands of tumor growth. Tumor lineage plasticity has been identified as a key factor in therapy resistance and tumor recurrence. Herein, we showed one aspect of this plasticity to be abnormal glycerophospholipid metabolism, specifically the presence of a metabolic protein called 1-acylglycerol-3-phosphate o-acyltransferase 4 (AGPAT4). We identified AGPAT4 as an oncofetal protein that is abundant in embryonic stem cells and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) tumor cells but is low or absent in most normal tissues. We demonstrated that AGPAT4 is a functional regulator of tumor lineage plasticity, which correlates with enhanced metastasis and resistance to sorafenib. Heightened plasticity was induced as a result of increased AGPAT4-mediated conversion of LPA (lysophosphatidic acid) to phosphatidic acid (PA), which then acts on its downstream mTOR/S6K/S6 signaling pathway. Inhibition of Agpat4 by the AAV8-mediated liver-directed strategy in an immunocompetent HCC mouse model reduced tumorigenicity and stemness and sensitized tumors to sorafenib. Through a chemical biology approach, a cysteine-reacting compound that specifically targets AGPAT4 at the Cys228 residue and therefore hinders its acyltransferase activity was identified and found to work synergistically with sorafenib in suppressing HCC in tumor xenograft models derived from patients with preclinical HCC and sorafenib-resistant HCC. Toxicological analysis revealed minimal side effects associated with the covalent inhibitor. In conclusion, the plasticity of tumor lineages induced by AGPAT4 represents a potential target for HCC treatment and could expand the effectiveness of sorafenib treatment, offering new possibilities for HCC therapy.
Normal fetal development is critically dependent on optimal nutrient supply by the placenta, and placental amino acid transport has been demonstrated to be positively associated with fetal growth. Mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR) is a positive regulator of placental amino acid transporters, such as System A. Oleic acid (OA) has been previously shown to have a stimulatory role on placental mTOR signaling and System A amino acid uptake in primary human trophoblast (PHT) cells. We investigated the mechanistic link between OA and System A activity in PHT. We found that inhibition of mTOR complex 1 or 2, using small interfering RNA to knock down raptor or rictor, prevented OA-stimulated System A amino acid transport indicating the interaction of OA with mTOR. Phosphatidic acid (PA) is a key intermediary for phospholipid biosynthesis and a known regulator of the mTOR pathway; however, phospholipid biosynthetic pathways have not been extensively studied in placenta. We identified placental isoforms of acyl transferase enzymes involved in de novo phospholipid synthesis. Silencing of 1-acylglycerol-3-phosphate-O-acyltransferase-4, an enzyme in this pathway, prevented OA mediated stimulation of mTOR and System A amino acid transport. These data indicate that OA stimulates mTOR and amino acid transport in PHT cells mediated through de novo synthesis of PA. We speculate that fatty acids in the maternal circulation, such as OA, regulate placental functions critical for fetal growth by interaction with mTOR and that late pregnancy hyperlipidemia may be critical for increasing nutrient transfer to the fetus.© 2023 The Authors. FASEB BioAdvances published by the Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Triacylglycerols (TAGs) are a major component of intramuscular fat. Diacylglycerol O-acyltransferase 2(DGAT2) expression determines the rate of TAG synthesis. The purpose of this study was to investigate the role of DGAT2 in the differentiation of Yanbian cattle preadipocytes and lipid metabolism-related signalling pathways. Bovine preadipocytes were infected with overexpression and interfering adenovirus vectors of DGAT2. The effects on the differentiation of Yanbian cattle preadipocytes were examined using molecular and transcriptomic techniques, including differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and Kyoto Encyclopaedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis. DGAT2 overexpression significantly increased (p < 0.05) intracellular TAG, adiponectin, and lipid droplet (LD) contents. Moreover, it upregulated (p < 0.05) peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPARγ), CCAAT/enhancer binding protein α, and fatty acid binding protein 4 mRNA expression. In contrast, DGAT2 knockdown reduced intracellular TAG and LD content and downregulated (p < 0.05) C/EBPβ, mannosyl (alpha-1,3-)-glycoproteinbeta-1,2-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase, lipin 1,1-acylglycerol-3-phosphate O-acyltransferase 4, and acetyl-CoA carboxylase alpha mRNA expression. Between DGAT2-overexpressing preadipocytes and normal cells, 208 DEGs were identified, including 106 upregulated and 102 downregulated genes. KEGG pathway analysis revealed DEGs mainly enriched in PPAR signalling and AMP-activated protein kinase pathways, cholesterol metabolism, and fatty acid biosynthesis. These results demonstrated that DGAT2 regulated preadipocyte differentiation and LD and TAG accumulation by mediating the expression of adipose differentiation-, lipid metabolism-, and fatty acid synthesis-related genes.
Recent studies have shown glycerolipid metabolism played an essential role in multiple tumors, however, its function in osteosarcoma is unclear. This study aimed to explore the role of glycerolipid metabolism in osteosarcoma.We conducted bioinformatics analysis using data from the Therapeutically Applicable Research to Generate Effective Treatments (TARGET) database and single-cell RNA sequencing. Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO) regression was used to identify the Glycerolipid metabolism-related genes associated with the clinical outcome of osteosarcoma. Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) and their interactions with immune cells were examined through single-cell analysis and co-culture experiments. Virtual screening was employed to identify the potential lysophosphatidic acid receptor 6 (LPAR6) inhibitors.Glycerolipid metabolism-related genes 1-acylglycerol-3-phosphate O-acyltransferase 3 (AGPAT3) and aldehyde dehydrogenase 7 family member A1 (ALDH7A1) were identified as key prognostic genes in osteosarcoma, with high AGPAT3 expression correlating with improved survival. Single-cell analysis revealed that AGPAT3 expression is associated with tumor immune microenvironment, particularly with TAMs. Knockdown of AGPAT3 in osteosarcoma cells resulted in elevated lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) levels, which regulated the immune environment, inhibiting cytotoxic T cell function through TAMs' LPAR6 signaling. LPAR6 signaling in TAMs mediates immune regulation through cytokine secretion, including interleukin-6 (IL-6) and interleukin-10 (IL-10). Further drug virtual screening identified Dutasteride as a potential inhibitor of LPAR6.AGPAT3 is an important gene related to the prognosis of osteosarcoma. Its ability to modulate LPA signaling and TAM activity offers promising therapeutic opportunities for improving osteosarcoma treatment, particularly in immunotherapy contexts.© 2026 The Authors.
Although polyunsaturated phospholipids are vital for cellular functions, their overaccumulation renders cells vulnerable to ferroptosis. It remains unclear how cells exposed to excess polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) prevent their over-incorporation into phospholipids. Here, we identified a mechanism by which ubiquitin regulatory X domain-containing protein 8 (UBXD8), a fatty acid (FA)-interacting protein, prevents overaccumulation of phospholipids containing docosahexaenoate (DHA), one of the most abundant PUFAs in mammalian cells. UBXD8 binds to and activates 1-acylglycerol-3-phosphate O-acyltransferase 3 (AGPAT3), which specifically incorporates DHA into phospholipids. Thus, cultured cells and mouse livers deficient in UBXD8 were resistant to ferroptosis because of reduced production of DHA-containing phospholipids. Excess unsaturated FAs, including DHA, through their interaction with UBXD8, disrupt the UBXD8/AGPAT3 complex, thereby inhibiting AGPAT3-catalyzed synthesis of DHA-containing phospholipids. This FA-sensing mechanism prevents overaccumulation of DHA-containing phospholipids in cells exposed to excess DHA, thus reducing the ferroptotic potency of DHA, a property that might contribute to the health benefits of this ω-3 PUFA.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The glycerol-3-phosphate (G-3-P) pathway is central to the synthesis of triacylglycerols (TAGs) and glycerophospholipids, essential for membrane biogenesis and lipid storage. The first and rate-limiting step in this pathway is catalyzed by glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferases (GPATs), with microsomal GPAT3 and GPAT4 being evolutionarily conserved and predominant in most tissues. While previous studies have implicated Calcineurin B homologous protein 1 (CHP1) as a cofactor for GPAT4, the broader role of CHP1 in regulating microsomal GPATs and TAG biosynthesis remains unclear. Here, we demonstrate that CHP1 is a critical regulator of both GPAT3 and GPAT4, essential for their stability, enzymatic activity, and lipid droplet (LD) localization. Structural modeling and mutational analyses identified key hydrophobic interfaces mediating the CHP1-GPAT interaction, which are required for optimal GPAT activity and LD growth. Loss of CHP1 impairs LD expansion and disrupts the localization of GPAT3/4 and downstream enzymes in the TAG synthesis pathway, including 1-acylglycerol-3-phosphate O-acyltransferase 3 (AGPAT3) and diacylglycerol O-acyltransferase 2 (DGAT2). Mechanistically, CHP1 helps circumvent seipin-mediated restriction of late LD-targeting enzymes, facilitating their access to mature LDs. Together, our findings reveal CHP1 as a dual-function regulator that stabilizes and activates microsomal GPATs while enabling the coordinated recruitment of TAG biosynthetic enzymes to LDs. This work uncovers a previously unrecognized mechanism for regulating LD growth and glycerolipid metabolism, with broad implications for lipid homeostasis and metabolic diseases.
Ovarian cancer therapy remains a challenge for human health, partly due to chemotherapy resistance. Understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying this resistance is crucial. Therefore, to identify genes involved in cisplatin resistance in ovarian cancer, RNA-seq analysis of A2780cp (cisplatin-resistant) and A2780 (cisplatin-sensitive) cell lines was performed, revealing 1-acylglycerol-3-phosphate O-acyltransferase 3 (AGPAT3) as a differentially expressed candidate gene. First, MTT analysis confirmed the drug resistance of A2780cp and the sensitivity of A2780 cell lines. Subsequent reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and western blotting analyses revealed elevated AGPAT3 and mTOR expression in A2780cp cells compared with A2780 cells. Additionally, western blotting showed increased p-mTOR (phospho-mTOR)/mTOR and p-S6K (phospho-S6K)/S6K ratios in A2780cp cells. The overexpression of AGPAT3 in A2780 cells led to increased p-mTOR/mTOR and p-S6K/S6K ratios and increased IC50 values, as shown by RT-qPCR, western blotting, and MTT analysis. Conversely, shRNA-mediated downregulation of AGPAT3 resulted in reduced p-mTOR/mTOR and p-S6K/S6K ratios. At the cellular level, AGPAT3 overexpression in A2780 cells increased survival rates, decreased apoptosis, and caused G2/M cell cycle arrest under cisplatin treatment, as detected by apoptosis assay, and cell cycle flow cytometry analysis. Overall, we conclude that AGPAT3 is involved in cisplatin resistance in A2780cp cells and propose that targeting this gene or its enzymatic product could help overcome drug resistance.Copyright: © 2025 Alizadeh et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Familial partial lipodystrophy 3 (FPLD3) is a rare genetic disorder caused by loss-of-function mutations in the PPARG gene, characterized by a selective absence of subcutaneous fat and associated metabolic complications. However, the molecular mechanisms of FPLD3 remain unclear. In this study, we recruited a 17-yr-old Chinese female with FPLD3 and her family, identifying a novel PPARG frameshift mutation (exon 4: c.418dup: p.R140Kfs*7) that truncates the PPARγ protein at the seventh amino acid, significantly expanding the genetic landscape of FPLD3. By performing next-generation sequencing of circular RNAs (circRNAs), microRNAs (miRNAs), and mRNAs in plasma exosomes, we discovered 59 circRNAs, 57 miRNAs, and 299 mRNAs were significantly altered in the mutation carriers compared with the healthy controls. Integration analysis highlighted that the circ_0001597-miR-671-5p pair and 18 mRNAs might be incorporated into the metabolic regulatory networks of the FPLD3 induced by the novel PPARG mutation. Functional annotation suggested that these genes were significantly enriched in glucose- and lipid metabolism-related pathways. Among the circRNA-miRNA-mRNA network, we identified two critical regulators, early growth response-1 (EGR1), a key transcription factor known for its role in insulin signaling pathways and lipid metabolism, and 1-acylglycerol-3-phosphate O-acyltransferase 3 (AGPAT3), which gets involved in the biosynthesis of triglycerides and lipolysis. Circ_0001597 regulates the expression of these genes through miR-671-5p, potentially contributing to the pathophysiology of FPLD3. Overall, this study clarified a circulating exosomal circRNA-miRNA-mRNA network in a FPLD3 family with a novel PPARG mutation, providing evidence for exploring promising biomarkers and developing novel therapeutic strategies for this rare genetic disorder.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Through the establishment of a ceRNA regulatory networks in a novel PPARG frameshift mutation c.418dup-induced FPLD3 pedigree, this study reveals that circ_0001597 may contribute to the pathophysiology of FPLD3 by sequestering miR-671-5p to regulate the expression of EGR1 and AGPAT3, pivotal genes situated in the triglyceride (TG) synthesis and lipolysis pathways. Current findings expand our molecular understanding of adipose tissue dysfunction, providing potential blood biomarkers and therapeutic avenues for lipodystrophy and associated metabolic complications.
Helicobacter pylori, particularly cytotoxin-associated gene A (CagA)-positive strains, plays a key role in the progression of gastric cancer (GC). Ferroptosis, associated with lethal lipid peroxidation, has emerged to play an important role in malignant and infectious diseases, but the role of CagA in ferroptosis in cancer cells has not been determined. Here, we report that CagA confers GC cells sensitivity to ferroptosis both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, CagA promotes the synthesis of polyunsaturated ether phospholipids (PUFA-ePLs), which is mediated by increased expression of alkylglycerone phosphate synthase (AGPS) and 1-acylglycerol-3-phosphate O-acyltransferase 3 (AGPAT3), leading to susceptibility to ferroptosis. This susceptibility is mediated by activation of the MEK/ERK/SRF pathway. SRF is a crucial transcription factor that increases AGPS transcription by binding to the AGPS promoter region. Moreover, the results demonstrated that CagA-positive cells are more sensitive to apatinib than are CagA-negative cells, suggesting that detecting the H. pylori CagA status may aid patient stratification for treatment with apatinib.© 2024. The Author(s).
Diabetic cardiomyopathy, a distinctive complication of diabetes mellitus, has been correlated with the presence of intracellular lipid deposits. However, the intricate molecular mechanisms governing the aberrant accumulation of lipid droplets within cardiomyocytes remain to be comprehensively elucidated.Both obese diabetic (db/db) mice and HL-1 cells treated with 200 μmol/L palmitate and 200 μmol/L oleate were used to simulate type 2 diabetes conditions. Transmission electron microscopy is employed to assess the size and quantity of lipid droplets in the mouse hearts. Transcriptomics analysis was utilized to interrogate mRNA levels. Lipidomics and ubiquitinomics were employed to explore the lipid composition alterations and proteins participating in ubiquitin-mediated degradation in mice. Clinical data were collected from patients with diabetes-associated cardiomyopathy and healthy controls. Western blot analysis was conducted to assess the levels of proteins linked to lipid metabolism, and the biotin-switch assay was employed to quantify protein cysteine S-sulfhydration levels.The administration of H2 S donor, NaHS, effectively restored hydrogen sulfide levels in both the cardiac tissue and plasma of db/db mice (+7%, P < 0.001; +5%, P < 0.001). Both db/db mice (+210%, P < 0.001) and diabetic patients (+83%, P = 0.22, n = 5) exhibit elevated plasma triglyceride levels. Treatment with GYY4137 effectively lowers triglyceride levels in db/db mice (-43%, P = 0.007). The expression of cystathionine gamma-lyase and HMG-CoA reductase degradation protein 1 (SYVN1) was decreased in db/db mice compared with the wild-type mice (cystathionine gamma-lyase: -31%, P = 0.0240; SYVN1: -35%, P = 0.01), and NaHS-treated mice (SYVN1: -31%, P = 0.03). Conversely, the expression of sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1 (SREBP1) was elevated (+91%, P = 0.007; +51%, P = 0.03 compared with control and NaHS-treated mice, respectively), along with diacylglycerol O-acyltransferase 1 (DGAT1) (+95%, P = 0.001; +35%, P = 0.02) and 1-acylglycerol-3-phosphate O-acyltransferase 3 (AGPAT3) (+88%, P = 0.01; +22%, P = 0.32). Exogenous H2 S led to a reduction in lipid droplet formation (-48%, P < 0.001), restoration of SYVN1 expression, modification of SYVN1's S-sulfhydration status and enhancement of SREBP1 ubiquitination. Overexpression of SYVN1 mutated at Cys115 decreased SREBP1 ubiquitination and increased the number of lipid droplets.Exogenous H2 S enhances ubiquitin-proteasome degradation of SREBP1 and reduces its nuclear translocation by modulating SYVN1's cysteine S-sulfhydration. This pathway limits lipid droplet buildup in cardiac myocytes, ameliorating diabetic cardiomyopathy.© 2023 The Authors. Journal of Cachexia, Sarcopenia and Muscle published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
The current study reports the identification of previously undiscovered single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the bovine AGPAT3 gene and further investigates their associations with milk production traits. Our results demonstrate that the major allele C of the SNP g.12264 C > T is positively correlated with test-day milk yield, protein percentage and 305-day milk yield. Importantly, in silico analysis showed that the C/T transition at this locus gives rise to two new transcription factor binding sites (TFBS), E2F1 and Nkx3-2. Polymorphism g.18658 G > A was the only SNP associated with milk urea nitrogen (MUN) with the G allele related to an increase in milk urea nitrogen as well as fat percentage. The GG genotype of SNP g.28731 A > G was associated with the highest fat and protein percentage and lowest 305-day milk yield and somatic cell score (SCS). The association between AGPAT3 locus and milk production traits could be utilized in marker-assisted selection for the genetic improvement of milk production traits and, probably in conjunction with other traits, for selection to improve fitness of dairy cattle.
People are paying more attention to the healthy and balanced diet with the improvement of their living standards. Milk fatty acids (FAs) have been reported that they were related to some atherosclerosis and coronary heart diseases in human. In our previous genome-wide association study (GWAS) on milk FAs in dairy cattle, 83 genome-wide significant single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were detected. Among them, two SNPs, ARS-BFGL-NGS-109493 and BTA-56389-no-rs associated with C18index (P = 0.0459), were located in the upstream of 1-acylglycerol-3-phosphate O-acyltransferase 3 (AGPAT3) gene. AGPAT3 is involved in glycerol-lipid, glycerol-phospholipid metabolism and phospholipase D signaling pathways. Hence, it was inferred as a candidate gene for milk FAs. The aim of this study was to further confirm the genetic effects of the AGPAT3 gene on milk FA traits in dairy cattle.Through re-sequencing the complete coding region, and 3000 bp of 5' and 3' regulatory regions of the AGPAT3 gene, a total of 17 SNPs were identified, including four in 5' regulatory region, one in 5' untranslated region (UTR), three in introns, one in 3' UTR, and eight in 3' regulatory region. By the linkage disequilibrium (LD) analysis with Haploview4.1 software, two haplotype blocks were observed that were formed by four and 12 identified SNPs, respectively. Using SAS9.2, we performed single locus-based and haplotype-based association analysis on 24 milk FAs in 1065 Chinese Holstein cows, and discovered that all the SNPs and the haplotype blocks were significantly associated with C6:0, C8:0 and C10:0 (P < 0.0001-0.0384). Further, with Genomatix, we predicted that four SNPs in 5' regulatory region (g.146702957G > A, g.146704373A > G, g.146704618A > G and g.146704699G > A) changed the transcription factor binding sites (TFBSs) for transcription factors SMARCA3, REX1, VMYB, BRACH, NKX26, ZBED4, SP1, USF1, ARNT and FOXA1. Out of them, two SNPs were validated to impact transcriptional activity by performing luciferase assay that the alleles A of both SNPs, g.146704373A > G and g.146704618A > G, increased the transcriptional activities of AGPAT3 promoter compared with alleles G (P = 0.0004).In conclusion, our findings first demonstrated the significant genetic associations of the AGPAT3 gene with milk FAs in dairy cattle, and two potential causal mutations were detected.
Mechanical chest compressions during cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) can produce pulmonary edema, described as cardiopulmonary resuscitation-associated lung edema (CRALE), which has been largely interpreted as a hydrostatic phenomenon. However, whether early molecular changes associated with epithelial injury, coagulation, and inflammation are also present during resuscitation remains uncertain. We hypothesized that bronchoalveolar lavage fluid proteomics would identify early protein signatures of lung injury after CPR.Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) was collected separately from the right and left caudal lung lobes of nine pigs before cardiac arrest and again after ventricular fibrillation, 8 min of untreated arrest, and up to 45 min of CPR. In animals achieving return of spontaneous circulation, post-CPR BALF was obtained immediately after resuscitation; in the remaining animals, sampling was performed at the end of CPR. Proteins were digested, tandem mass tag 18-plex labeled, and analyzed by high-resolution liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. Differentially abundant proteins were defined by fold change >1.5 or <0.67 with P < 0.05. Functional enrichment, histologic assessment, and western blot validation were performed.A total of 1088 proteins were identified in left lung BALF and 1200 in right lung BALF. Comparison of pre- and post-CPR samples identified 74 and 78 differentially abundant proteins in the left and right lungs, respectively, with 28 shared proteins across both lungs. Among the most increased proteins were plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (SERPINE1/PAI-1), apolipoprotein A1, inter-alpha inhibitor family proteins, vitronectin, histones, and advanced glycation end-product receptor (AGER). Functional enrichment showed over-representation of proteins related to complement and coagulation, platelet degranulation, lipid metabolism, and extracellular matrix signaling. Histology showed mild septal thickening, vascular neutrophilic infiltration, interstitial edema, and patchy fibrin deposition, consistent with early pneumocyte injury and mild inflammation. Western blot confirmed increased post-CPR abundance of PAI-1 and apolipoprotein A1.Early after resuscitation, BALF proteomics identified molecular changes characterized by increased antifibrinolytic and complement-related proteins, together with proteins associated with epithelial and endothelial stress. These findings suggest that pulmonary abnormalities after CPR may involve not only hydrostatic edema but also an early biologic response consistent with lung injury, which may contribute to post-cardiac arrest respiratory dysfunction and progression to acute respiratory distress syndrome.© 2026 The Authors.
Background/Objectives: The apolipoprotein B to apolipoprotein A1 (ApoB/A1) ratio has been proposed as a marker of cardiovascular risk, but its value for assessing extracranial and intracranial atherosclerosis beyond conventional lipid markers remains uncertain. We evaluated whether the ApoB/A1 ratio improves discrimination of severe atherosclerosis in high-risk statin-naive patients. Methods: We retrospectively included 3416 statin-naive patients who underwent lipid profiling and carotid duplex ultrasonography and/or cerebrovascular imaging between 2014 and 2023. The primary outcome was stenosis severity, categorized as normal, mild (<50% stenosis), or severe (≥50% stenosis, including occlusion), based on clinical imaging reports. Secondary outcomes were carotid plaque score and the number of stenotic intracranial vessels. Associations were assessed using multivariable ordinal logistic regression with 1-SD-standardized lipid markers. Results: The ApoB/A1 ratio was independently associated with greater stenosis severity (adjusted odds ratio 1.24 per 1-SD increase, 95% CI 1.15-1.35; p < 0.0001). Adding ApoB/A1 to a model including clinical covariates, LDL-C, and HDL-C significantly improved discrimination of severe stenosis on every metric examined (continuous NRI +0.142, 95% CI 0.053-0.227; IDI +0.0058, 0.0026-0.0088; likelihood ratio p = 0.0004), although the absolute increase in AUC was modest (0.660 to 0.668; ΔAUC +0.008; DeLong p = 0.026). Associations were consistent for carotid plaque score and intracranial vessel-count outcomes. Conclusions: In high-risk statin-naive patients undergoing carotid or cerebrovascular evaluation, the ApoB/A1 ratio was independently associated with atherosclerosis severity and provided modest incremental discrimination beyond conventional lipid markers. Apolipoprotein assessment may help refine risk stratification in this population.
Cerebral venous sinus thrombosis (CVST) is a rare but potentially fatal neurological emergency during pregnancy and the puerperium. Data on its prognosis in early pregnancy and the risk of recurrence in subsequent pregnancies remain limited, particularly in Chinese populations. This study aimed to identify risk factors associated with the occurrence and prognosis of pregnancy-associated CVST and to evaluate the outcomes of subsequent pregnancies in affected women.We conducted a retrospective case-control study at a tertiary referral center in China from January 2010 to June 2024. The study included 20 consecutive pregnant or postpartum women diagnosed with CVST and 198 controls without CVST. Clinical characteristics, laboratory indicators, neuroimaging findings, and treatment outcomes were compared between groups. Surviving patients were followed up for a median of 90.6 months to assess subsequent pregnancy rates and CVST recurrence.Of the 20 CVST patients, 7 (35.0%) occurred during early pregnancy and 13 (65.0%) in the postpartum period. The early pregnancy group had higher rates of intracerebral hemorrhage (85.71% vs. 7.69%), cerebral infarction (57.14% vs. 30.77%), and mortality (42.86% vs. 7.69%) compared with the postpartum group. Lower apolipoprotein A1 (APO-A1) levels were associated with CVST occurrence (OR = 0.005, 95% CI: 0.000-0.158, p = 0.003). During follow-up, 3 of 16 surviving patients (18.75%) had subsequent pregnancies, and no CVST recurrence was observed.Early pregnancy CVST is associated with a more severe clinical course and higher mortality than postpartum CVST, warranting vigilant monitoring. Lower APO-A1 levels may serve as an associative marker for CVST risk. Based on our limited data, a prior history of CVST may not be an absolute contraindication to future pregnancy, though individual risk assessment and multidisciplinary management are essential.Copyright © 2026 Shen, Gu, Liu, Wu, Li and Guan.
To investigate the distribution of PON1 Q192R and L55M polymorphisms and serum PON1 concentration in Saudi patients with T2DM and to evaluate their associations with biochemical parameters and diabetes-related complications.In this case-control study, 220 patients with T2DM and 120 healthy controls were enrolled from several hospitals in Madinah, KSA, from May 1, 2025 to December 15, 2025. Clinical and biochemical assessments included fasting plasma glucose (FPG), HbA1c, lipid profile, apolipoprotein A1 (ApoA1), and apolipoprotein B (ApoB). PON1 Q192R and L55M genotypes were determined using PCR-RFLP, and serum PON1 concentration was measured by ELISA. Associations between genotypes, PON1 levels, metabolic indices, and diabetic complications were analyzed.Serum PON1 levels were significantly lower in patients with T2DM compared with controls (p < 0.001). The genotype and allele frequencies of PON1 Q192R and L55M polymorphisms did not differ significantly between groups (p=0.18); Q192R allele: (p=0.21); L55M genotype: (p=0.58); L55M allele: (p=0.43). While neither polymorphism was associated with T2DM susceptibility, the Q192R variant was significantly associated with cardiovascular disease among patients with T2DM (p = 0.04). Both polymorphisms were significantly associated with serum PON1 concentration and glycemic indices (FPG and HbA1c; p < 0.05), whereas no significant associations were observed with BMI or lipid parameters.In Saudi patients with T2DM, PON1 levels are notably lower, indicating reduced antioxidant defense. Although certain genetic polymorphisms of PON1 do not affect diabetes susceptibility, the Q192R variant may increase cardiovascular risks in T2DM, suggesting its role as a biomarker for cardiometabolic risk rather than disease development.Copyright: © Pakistan Journal of Medical Sciences.
Patients with familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) are at high risk of coronary artery disease (CAD), and its prediction is of great clinical importance. This study aimed to identify predictors of CAD and construct an effective risk prediction model for Korean patients with FH.Clinical and laboratory data of 245 patients were collected from the Korean FH registry. CAD was defined as ≥50% coronary stenosis on invasive or computed tomographic angiography. The cholesterol efflux capacity (CEC) was measured using J774A1 cells and radiolabeled cholesterol. Predictors of CAD were identified by multivariable logistic regression analysis, and the best-performing prediction model was determined based on its statistical indices.The participants' mean age was 49.1 years; 92 (37.6%) were male, and 41 (16.7%) had CAD. Age [odds ratio (OR) 1.05; p=0.02], hypertension (OR 7.28; p<0.0001), low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (OR 1.60; p=0.02), and high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (HDL-C) (OR 0.93; p=0.002) were identified as predictors of CAD in the multivariable analysis. In another analysis, age, hypertension, body mass index (OR 1.16; p=0.03), and apolipoprotein A1 (OR 0.97; p=0.002) were predictive of CAD. CEC did not have a significant predictive value. The best-performing CAD prediction model included six clinical and laboratory variables, with an area under the curve of 0.878. The effects of hypertension, smoking, and HDL-C were particularly influential.Traditional risk factors, including hypertension and HDL-C, were predictors of CAD in Korean patients with FH, whereas CEC was not. The resulting CAD prediction model demonstrated satisfactory performance in this population.© Copyright: Yonsei University College of Medicine 2026.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is associated with high mortality rates therefore early diagnosis and treatment is essential in reducing mortality. Blood tests that can identify high-risk individuals is an unmet medical need. In this pilot observational study, remnant samples from routine clinical lab orders were tested on 265 patients presenting with abdominal pain and/or presence of pancreatitis, pancreatic cyst, gall stones, abdominal infections (due to herpes or H. pylori), hepatic cirrhosis/hepatitis, non-pancreatic cancer, or pre-, new onset, controlled and uncontrolled diabetes.The serum apolipoprotein A2 isoform index, a novel tumor marker, and carbohydrate antigen (CA) 19-9 were correlated to 3 demographic, 4 behavioral and 7 clinical risk factors associated with PDAC and subclassifications therein. In a univariate logistic regression analysis using the tumor markers as a dichotomous variables against the biomarker's respective cutoff concentration, alcohol, smoking, opioid use, pancreatitis, abdominal infections, pancreatic cyst and hepatic cirrhosis/hepatitis were associated with an abnormal apoA2 isoform index.In a multivariate analysis, alcohol use, smoking, pancreatitis and pancreatitic cyst remain significant. CA19-9 was associated with cirrhosis/hepatitis alone. When categorizing marker data using pre-established cutoffs, patients with abnormal apoA2 index had 4.4 risk factors vs. 3.2 with normal apoA2 isoform index (p < 0.0001). No difference between normal and abnormal results were observed for CA19-9.Correlating known PDAC risk factors, apoA2 isoform index and CA19-9 were associated with different factors, suggesting they provide independent information on risk. This may justify the apoA2 isoform index as part of an algorithm with CA19-9 for cancer screening, particularly for high-risk individuals (e.g., genetic risk).Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
The global burden and serious outcomes of coronary heart disease (CHD) highlight the need for further comprehensive research. This study explored the predictive value of glycated apolipoprotein A-1 (G-apoA1) and glycated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (G-LDL-C) levels for coronary artery obstruction severity and future major adverse cardiovascular events (MACEs) among patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). This study included 3,292 patients with T2DM who were followed up for 5 years. Patients were stratified into quartiles of G-apoA1 and G-LDL-C, and associations with the incidence of MACEs were assessed by comparing quartile groups. Logistic regression and Spearman's correlation analyses were conducted to evaluate the associations of G‑apoA1 and G‑LDL‑C with CHD risk, while Cox regression was used to estimate the risk of MACEs. G-apoA1 and G-LDL-C levels were significantly higher in patients with T2DM and CHD than in those with T2DM without CHD and were identified as independent risk factors for CHD [G-apoA1: odds ratio (OR) = 2.021, 95%CI: 1.622-2.519, p < 0.001; G-LDL-C: OR = 2.038, 95%CI: 1.616-2.570, p < 0.001]. These levels were also positively correlated with the number of obstructed coronary arteries and the Gensini score (GS). During the 5-year follow-up period, 443 patients experienced MACEs. An analysis using restricted cubic spline models revealed that the incidence of MACEs increased with higher G-apoA1 and G-LDL-C levels. Multivariate Cox regression analysis showed a significantly higher risk of MACEs among patients in the highest quartile than among those in the lowest quartile [G-apoA1: hazard ratio (HR):2.183, 95%CI: 1.630-2.923, p < 0.001; G-LDL-C: HR:2.798, 95%CI: 2.053-3.812, p < 0.001]. This study showed that G-apoA1 and G-LDL-C levels were associated with CHD in patients with T2DM and correlated with the severity of coronary obstruction. Moreover, higher G-apoA1 and G-LDL-C levels were associated with an increased incidence of MACEs.© 2026. The Author(s).
Evidence suggests that body composition is a predictor of poor prognosis in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC), but its association with early recurrence remains undetermined. This study investigated whether body composition parameters were associated with early recurrence after surgery in patients with resectable PDAC.A total of 451 patients (376 in the training cohort, 75 in the external validation cohort) from two centers were retrospectively analyzed. Body composition parameters included skeletal muscle index (SMI) and density (SMD), subcutaneous and visceral adipose tissue (SAT and VAT) area and density. Cox proportional hazards regression was used to identify independent prognostic factors of early recurrence, and a weighted scoring system was developed and externally validated.Multivariable analysis revealed that concomitant pancreatitis (HR:1.51, 95%CI:[1.02-2.24],P=0.041), peripancreatic infiltration (HR:1.70, 95%CI:[1.25-2.28], P<0.001), tumor grade (III vs. I-II) (HR:1.75, 95%CI:[1.33-2.29], P<0.001), adjuvant chemotherapy/concurrent chemoradiotherapy (CCRT) (HR:0.63, 95%CI:[0.47-0.86], P=0.003), CA19-9>500 U/mL (HR:2.03, 95%CI:[1.49-2.61], P<0.001), and myosteatosis (HR:1.65, 95%CI:[1.26-2.18], P<0.001) and high VAT (HR:1.48, 95%CI:[1.09-2.01], P=0.022) were independent prognostic factors for early recurrence. The scoring system demonstrated moderate to good discrimination in the training cohort (AUC=0.724, 95% CI:0.677-0.768) and external validation cohort (AUC=0.708, 95%CI: 0.591-0.807). Patients with scores ≥2.5 had significantly higher early recurrence rates (76% vs. 43%; P<0.001). SMD was correlated with apolipoprotein A1, albumin and neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR) (all P<0.010). Baseline NLR was independently associated with SMD reduction (P<0.001) in the availability-based subgroup with 6-month postoperative CT (n = 129).Myosteatosis and high VAT were independently associated with early recurrence after surgery. Incorporating body composition analysis into postoperative assessments may improve risk stratification for early recurrence.Copyright © 2026 The Association of University Radiologists. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Apolipoprotein A1 (APOA1) and paraoxonase 1 (PON1) are key proteins of high-density lipoproteins (HDL). The aim of the present study was to obtain and characterize an in vitro model for endogenous APOA1 and PON1 longstanding upregulation in hepatocytes that can be further used to decipher the mechanisms of their protective action. Cultured human hepatocytes (HuH-7 cell line) were transfected with CRISPR/dCas9 activation plasmids targeting APOA1/PON1 genes. Following selection with specific antibiotics, RNA sequencing was used for the transcriptomic characterization of the transfected hepatocytes. The functionality of the secreted APOA1/PON1 was evaluated as the capacity of the conditioned medium (CM) from transfected HuH-7 to modulate the oxidative and inflammatory stress in TNFα-activated primary human umbilical endothelial cells (HUVEC). The results showed that: (1) a robust, longstanding upregulation (46 days) of endogenous APOA1/PON1 was obtained after CRISPR/dCas9 transfection and antibiotics selection; (2) APOA1/PON1 upregulation led to a modified transcriptomic profile and increased the expression of several antioxidant genes in transfected hepatocytes as demonstrated by RNAseq analysis; (3) secreted APOA1/PON1 were functional as demonstrated by the CM ability to reduce the levels of reactive oxygen species and inflammatory markers (VCAM-1, MCP-1) in TNFα-activated HUVEC. In conclusion, we achieved an experimental model of successful longstanding upregulation of endogenous APOA1 and PON1 in human hepatocytes. The targeted proteins are secreted in a functional form and can be used for deciphering their complex mechanism of protective action in various pathological conditions.
Tsukushi (TSK), a secreted protein of the leucine-rich proteoglycan family that functions as a hepatokine, is upregulated in liver diseases such as metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD). Clinical studies have shown that serum TSK levels inversely correlate with plasma HDL cholesterol (HDL-C) in MASLD. This study investigated the impact of hepatic TSK overexpression on reverse cholesterol transport (RCT) and HDL function.Golden Syrian hamsters were transduced with adeno-associated virus encoding TSK (AAV-TSK) and fed a standard chow diet. After 8 weeks, in vivo macrophage-to-feces RCT was assessed by intraperitoneal injection of tritium-labeled cholesterol-loaded macrophages, with serum, liver, and fecal samples collected at 48 hours. Ex vivo HDL cholesterol efflux capacity was measured using RAW264.7 macrophages. Hepatic lipid metabolism gene expression, serum apolipoprotein A-I (apoA-I) levels, and lecithin-cholesterol acyltransferase (LCAT) and cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) activities were quantified.TSK overexpression did not induce hepatic steatosis. At week 8, serum HDL-C and HDL-phospholipids were reduced (p<0.05) in AAV-TSK hamsters compared with controls, whereas LCAT and CETP activities were similar. Ex vivo cholesterol efflux capacity of HDL was significantly diminished (p<0.05). RCT was impaired, with tritium tracer reduced by 34.2% in HDL (p<0.01) and 27.6% in liver (p<0.05). Hepatic cholesterol content was reduced (p<0.05), but triglyceride levels remained unchanged. Both hepatic and circulating apoA-I levels were significantly reduced (p<0.05).TSK overexpression impaired RCT by suppressing apoA-I expression, reducing HDL-mediated cholesterol efflux, and thereby attenuated macrophage-to-feces cholesterol transport.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
This study aimed to elucidate the therapeutic potential and underlying mechanisms of the Citri Reticulatae Pericarpium extract(CRPE) against hypercholesterolemia. A hypercholesterolemic rat model was established through a combination of a high-sugar, high-fat diet and ethanol administration. The experimental animals were systematically divided into several groups, including a normal control group, a disease model group, a positive control group treated with ezetimibe(1 mg·kg~(-1)), and three intervention groups receiving low, medium, and high doses of CRPE(1.25, 2.5, and 5 g·kg~(-1), respectively). High performance liquid chromatography(HPLC) revealed that CRPE mainly contained narirutin, hesperidin, and nobiletin. A comprehensive series of in vivo assessments were conducted to evaluate effects of the extract. These included measuring serum lipid levels and calculating the atherogenic index(AI) using an automated biochemical analyzer, quantifying total cholesterol(TC) and total bile acid(TBA) levels in liver tissues and fecal samples with commercial assay kits, evaluating microcirculatory blood perfusion in the tail using the Moor FLPI laser speckle contrast imaging system, and measuring hemorheological parameters with an automated hemorheometer. Furthermore, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay(ELISA) was employed to measure the serum and hepatic levels of critical factors involved in cholesterol transport and metabolism. The expression of proteins related to the reverse cholesterol transport(RCT) pathway and bile acid synthesis and metabolism in the liver was meticulously examined by Western blot. In vitro cell experiments were performed to validate the effects of CRPE on cholesterol uptake and efflux in BRL and RAW264.7 cells. The findings demonstrated that CRPE effectively corrected dyslipidemia, enhanced microcirculatory perfusion, and ameliorated abnormal blood rheology. It reduced serum levels of oxidized low-density lipoprotein(ox-LDL), apolipoprotein B(ApoB), free cholesterol(FC), cholesteryl ester(CE), and acyl coenzyme A: cholesterol acyltransferase(ACAT), while simultaneously increasing the levels of lecithin: cholesterol acyltransferase(LCAT) and apolipoprotein A1(ApoA1). A notable reduction in hepatic TC and a significant increase in TBA content in both the liver and feces were observed. Mechanistically, the hypocholesterolemic effect of CRPE was attributed to its ability to upregulate the expression of pivotal proteins in the RCT pathway, including the low-density lipoprotein receptor(LDL-R), scavenger receptor class B type I(SR-BI), ATP-binding cassette sub-family G member 5(ABCG5), ATP-binding cassette sub-family G member 8(ABCG8), and ATP-binding cassette subfamily B member 1(ABCB1). Concurrently, CRPE modulated the expression of central regulators of bile acid homeostasis, such as the bile salt export pump(BSEP), the farnesoid X receptor(FXR), and cholesterol 7α-hydroxylase(CYP7A1). The in vitro experiments provided compelling corroborating evidence, showing that CRPE directly stimulated the uptake of NBD-cholesterol in BRL hepatocytes and promoted its efflux from RAW264.7 macrophages. In conclusion, CRPE ameliorates hypercholesterolemia by facilitating RCT and maintaining enterohepatic circulation homeostasis of bile acid.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), the most common primary liver cancer, exhibits metabolic reprogramming with disrupted cholesterol metabolism as a key feature. Lecithin-cholesterol acyltransferase (LCAT) contributes to HCC development, but its exact on cogenic mechanisms remain unclear. This study aims to investigate the role of LCAT in hepatocarcinogenesis and elucidate its underlying molecular mechanisms in HCC.The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), GEPIA, and Kaplan-Meier plotter databases were used to analyze LCAT expression and perform survival analysis and functional enrichment analysis. Clinical paired samples were collected to evaluate LCAT expression and observed changes in cholesterol metabolism levels Liver-specific Lcat knockout mice were constructed to investigate the hepatocarcinogenesis effect of LCAT. Loss-of-function studies were performed to confirm the molecular mechanism of LCAT in HCC. Finally, investigated the correlation between LCAT and immune infiltration.LCAT expression level was down-regulated in HCC patients and low LCAT level was associated with poor prognosis. International Cancer Genome Consortium (ICGC) data reveal dysregulated cholesterol metabolism in HCC, further validated by clinical evidence of metabolic aberrations in patients Besides, we constructed DEN induced HCC model using Alb-Cre; Lcatfl/fl mice and found that liver-specific Lcat knockout promoted cancerogenesis through ERK pathway. Meanwhile, knockdown of LCAT significantly promoted proliferation, migration, and invasion in Huh7 cell. Finally, immune infiltration analysis showed that LCAT was significantly related to immune infiltration, and LCAT expression was significantly associated with more than 10 immune checkpoint markers such as IL12A, VTCN1, BTLA, and TIGIT.This study first explored the biological functions of LCAT in HCC based on in vitro and in vivo experiments. Our results indicate that LCAT deficiency correlates with aggressive HCC progression and immunosuppression, suggesting its potential as a prognostic biomarker. Given its role in modulating the HCC microenvironment, LCAT warrants further investigation as a predictive marker for immunotherapy response.© 2026 Gao et al.
Sperm motility is a critical determinant of semen quality, yet the molecular mechanisms regulating motility remain unclear. In this study, we identified Yufen 1 roosters with significant differences in sperm motility among highly motile sperm samples stored under different conditions. By integrating the seminal plasma proteome and seminal plasma metabolome data, 181 proteins and 112 metabolites were identified as differentially expressed between the high motility group (HMG) and low motility group (LMG). Lecithin cholesterol acyltransferase (LCAT) was upregulated in the LMG. Targeted LCAT activation significantly reduced sperm motility and plasma membrane integrity, caused sperm plasma membrane disruption, chromatin loss, and mitochondrial swelling, and reduced the longest fertilization days and number of fertilized eggs. Mechanistically, LCAT regulates sperm motility in vitro by altering sperm membrane structure and function by modulating glycerophospholipid metabolism. These findings provide new insights into extending the window period for artificial insemination and semen preservation strategies in poultry.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Acquired lecithin-cholesterol acyltransferase (LCAT) deficiency is a rare cause of a marked reduction in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C). We report a 75-year-old Japanese woman with a progressive decline in HDL-C from 64 to <2 mg/dL over five years. Laboratory tests showed a markedly decreased LCAT activity and protein levels with anti-LCAT autoantibodies, whereas a genetic analysis revealed no LCAT mutations. Lipidomic profiling demonstrated free cholesterol accumulation, the loss of HDL subclasses, and TG-rich LDL particles. No underlying autoimmune disease was identified. This case highlights the importance of a lipid subclass analysis and the recognition of acquired LCAT deficiency in patients with a marked HDL-C deficiency.
Cholesterol metabolism is critical in cancer biology, yet its role in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains poorly understood. We investigated the expression and prognostic significance of cholesterol homeostasis genes in HCC to identify potential biomarkers for risk stratification. Using data from The Cancer Genome Atlas, we identified differentially expressed cholesterol-related genes (logFC ≥ 1.5, false discovery rate < 0.05), intersecting them with genes annotated in the Molecular Signatures Database. Prognostic biomarkers were evaluated using univariate and multivariate Cox regression. A predictive model was constructed to assess survival outcomes. Cholesterol homeostasis genes, particularly fatty acid-binding protein 5 (FABP5) and alcohol dehydrogenase 4 (ADH4), are key prognostic biomarkers in HCC. The proposed model provides a novel approach for predicting outcomes and may inform therapeutic strategies. Further studies are needed to validate these findings and explore their clinical utility. Nine cholesterol homeostasis genes were differentially expressed, including 6 upregulated (choline kinase alpha, FABP5, fatty acid synthase, farnesyl diphosphate synthase, mevalonate diphosphate decarboxylase, and squalene epoxidase) and 3 downregulated (ADH4, activating transcription factor 5, and arginine vasopressin receptor 1A). FABP5 and ADH4 emerged as independent prognostic factors: high FABP5 expression was associated with poor prognosis, while high ADH4 expression predicted improved survival. A prognostic model integrating FABP5 and ADH4 and clinical characteristics achieved a concordance index of 0.683, effectively stratifying patients into high-risk and low-risk groups (χ2 = 20.60, P < .001) with median survival times of 1135 and 2532 days, respectively.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Familial lecithin-cholesterol acyltransferase deficiency (FLD) is a rare hereditary disorder. In FLD, a clinical triad of corneal opacity, anemia, and proteinuria typically precedes progressive renal dysfunction. Although early renal involvement has been widely described, there are limited reports on the long-term course leading to dialysis initiation, including systemic complications. We present a genetically confirmed case of FLD caused by the Cys74Tyr mutation, which had a clinical course exceeding 10 years with the emergence of multisystem complications. The patient initially showed a transient stabilization of renal function following a fat-restricted and protein-restricted diet and renin-angiotensin system blockade; however, subsequent decline occurred despite continued management. During this deterioration phase, systemic complications emerged, including progressive aortic valve stenosis, complete atrioventricular block, heart failure, and cerebellar infarction, in close temporal association with worsening renal function. Hemodialysis initiation led to rapid resolution of erythropoietin-resistant anemia, which may be attributable to the improvement in the uremic milieu following dialysis initiation. This case offers valuable insights into the late-stage progression of FLD. The observations may help determine the point at which renoprotective and metabolic interventions become less effective. Furthermore, the temporal association between renal deterioration and the development of cardiovascular and neurovascular complications suggests the need for careful clinical surveillance during advanced stages of renal dysfunction.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Japanese Society of Nephrology.
Choline O-acetyltransferase (ChAT) catalyzes the biosynthesis of acetylcholine and is a cysteine-rich enzyme that has been investigated using a range of biochemical, biophysical and structural approaches. Existing ChAT ligands rely on electrophilic or unstable scaffolds that limit their suitability for biological systems. Prior work established that arylvinylpyridiniums (AVPs) are substrate mimics that undergo ChAT-catalyzed hydrothiolation with CoA to form covalent AVP-CoA adducts. Here, we applied a structure-guided strategy to design nonreactive ligands intended to mimic key features of the AVP-CoA binding pose while avoiding covalent reactivity. Nineteen analogs were synthesized and evaluated across complementary biochemical, structural, and biophysical assays. X-ray crystallography confirmed that the new ligands bind within the ChAT tunnel similar to AVP-CoAs. Importantly, the high cysteine content of ChAT, especially within a reactive CXCXXC motif, rendered the enzyme susceptible to modification by the widely used 7-diethylamino-3-(4'-maleimidylphenyl)-4-methylcoumarin (CPM) reagent used for measuring ChAT activity, leading to confounding results in thiol-dependent activity assays. Enzyme-free counter-screens demonstrated that all apparent inhibitory activity arose from interference with assay readout rather than true enzymatic inhibition. Surface plasmon resonance measurements established that none of the designed ligands display detectable reversible affinity for ChAT, despite their crystallographically validated poses, and no selectivity over the related enzyme carnitine O-acetyltransferase (CrAT) was observed. These findings demonstrate that confirmed binding with X-ray crystallography is insufficient to establish functional interaction with ChAT and highlight the susceptibility of this enzyme to thiol-reactive assay artefacts. More broadly, this work underscores the necessity of integrating orthogonal biophysical validation when studying ligand binding to cysteine-rich enzymes.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Sepsis induces profound metabolic and mitochondrial dysfunction, contributing to multiple organ injury and mortality. Lipocalin-2 (Lcn2), an acute-phase protein, regulates iron homeostasis and oxidative stress, but its impact on mitochondrial resilience remains poorly understood. Here, we investigated the role of Lcn2 in modulating mitochondrial function and hepatic stress responses in C57BL/6 J (BL6) and BALB/c mice in LPS-induced endotoxemia. Lcn2-deficient (Lcn2KO) mice exhibited reduced basal respiration, maximal respiration, and spare respiratory capacity, indicating impaired mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation. Administration of recombinant Lcn2 (rLcn2) restored mitochondrial respiration in both mouse strains under basal conditions; however, during LPS challenge, only BL6 mice partially preserved mitochondrial function, whereas BALB/c mice remained compromised. To explore underlying mechanisms, we assessed hepatic gene expression by qRT-PCR. LPS induced Acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 4 (ACSL4) and suppressed lysophosphatidylcholine acyltransferase 3 (LPCAT3), markers associated with lipid remodeling, as well as altered antioxidant genes glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) and superoxide dismutase 2 (SOD2) in both strains. rLcn2 treatment in BL6 mice normalized ACSL4 and LPCAT3 expression and enhanced antioxidant gene transcription, whereas BALB/c mice showed minimal recovery. In BL6 mice, Lcn2 supports oxidative phosphorylation while simultaneously modulating lipid metabolism and antioxidant defenses, highlighting its integrated role in cellular adaptation to endotoxemia. Our results reveal that differential Lcn2 responsiveness contributes to inter-strain variation in susceptibility to sepsis-induced mitochondrial dysfunction and identify Lcn2 as a potential therapeutic target for enhancing metabolic resilience during sepsis.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cellular Physiology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Coadministration of azithromycin (AZM) and acetaminophen (APAP) is associated with an increased risk of hepatotoxicity, the underlying mechanism for which remains unclear. Here, we demonstrate that combined AZM and APAP treatment induced liver injury in mice, as evidenced by exacerbated glutathione depletion, enhanced formation of the toxic metabolite, acetaminophen-cysteine, and hepatocellular necrosis. Mechanistically, the combination inhibited liver X receptor α (LXRα) and upregulated pregnane X receptor, leading to increased expression of phase I enzymes, CYP2E1 and CYP3A11, while downregulating phase II enzymes, UDP-glucuronosyltransferase 1A and sulfotransferase 2A1. Furthermore, the combined treatment disrupted the LXRα-lysophosphatidylcholine acyltransferase 3 axis, which acts as a central driver inducing endoplasmic reticulum and oxidative stress, ultimately promoting hepatocyte apoptosis. Pharmacological activation of LXR (using GW3965, LXR agonist) or inhibition of pregnane X receptor (using pimecrolimus) conferred significant protection against liver injury. The complete abolition of GW3965-mediated protection in Lxrα-knockout mice unequivocally established the central and obligatory role of LXRα in this synergistic mechanism. Our findings indicate that coadministration of AZM and APAP induces hepatotoxicity through a dual-pronged mechanism involving metabolic dysregulation via the LXRα-cytochrome P450/UDP-glucuronosyltransferase axis and aggravation of endoplasmic reticulum stress via the LXRα-lysophosphatidylcholine acyltransferase 3 pathway. Collectively, these findings underscore the need for extreme caution in the clinical coprescription of AZM and APAP and highlight LXRα as a potential target for preventing liver injury. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: This study demonstrates that azithromycin synergizes with acetaminophen to induce liver injury by suppressing liver X receptor α (LXRα). This suppression disrupts metabolic balance via the LXRα-cytochrome P450/UDP-glucuronosyltransferase axis and exacerbates endoplasmic reticulum stress via the LXRα-lysophosphatidylcholine acyltransferase 3 pathway. Based on the finding of a critical drug-drug interaction, the study cautions against coadministration of azithromycin and acetaminophen and proposes LXRα as a promising target for preventing hepatotoxicity.Copyright © 2026 American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Each year, tens of millions of individuals sojourn to high-altitude environments (>2500 m), where they face the significant physiological challenge of hypoxia, a condition that often induces a range of gastrointestinal disorders. While our prior studies linked this damage to ferroptosis, the role of hypoxia-inducible lipid droplet-associated protein (HILPDA), a hypoxia inducible factor-1α/2α (HIF-1α/2α) downstream regulator, in this process remains unclear. This study aimed to explore the role and mechanism of HILPDA in regulating ferroptosis of normal human gastric and small intestinal epithelial cells (NGEC and HIEC) under hypoxic conditions. Our results found that overexpression of HIF-1α, HIF-2α, and HILPDA exacerbated hypoxia-induced cell death, which was reversed by the ferroptosis inhibitor ferrostatin-1. Knockdown of HIF-1α/2α inhibited HILPDA expression. Furthermore, knockdown of HILPDA led to a reduction of the hypoxia-induced lipid peroxidation, and the ferroptotic characteristics of cellular mitochondria observed under transmission electron microscopy. Conversely, HILPDA overexpression reversed the protective effects of HIF-1α/2α knockdown. Lipidomic analysis further revealed that HILPDA knockdown significantly decreased the levels of polyunsaturated fatty acid-phosphatidylcholines (PUFA-PCs) and phosphatidylethanolamines (PEs) under hypoxia. Compared to HIF-1α knockdown, HILPDA knockdown led to a slight difference in PUFA-PEs without significant difference in PCs and phosphatidylinositols (PIs) under hypoxia. Compared to HIF-2α knockdown, HILPDA knockdown resulted in negligible differences in PEs, PCs, and PIs. In addition, HILPDA knockdown downregulated Lysophosphatidylcholine Acyltransferase 3 (LPCAT3), and overexpression of LPCAT3 significantly attenuated the inhibitory effect of HILPDA knockdown on hypoxia-induced ferroptosis. In conclusion, HILPDA enhanced susceptibility to hypoxia-induced ferroptosis in NGEC and HIEC by enriching PUFA-containing phospholipids through LPCAT3. These findings identified the HIF-1α/2α-HILPDA-LPCAT3 axis as a pivotal pathway driving hypoxia-induced ferroptosis, therefore providing potential therapeutic targets for gastric and small intestinal mucosal injury associated with hypoxia.Copyright: © 2026 Song et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Acute pancreatitis (AP) is a severe inflammatory disorder characterized by pancreatic acinar cell injury, with ferroptosis, a form of iron-dependent lipid peroxidation-driven cell death, playing a key role in disease progression. However, the molecular mechanisms of ferroptosis regulation in AP remain unclear. SRY-related HMG-box 4 (SOX4) has been implicated in ferroptosis regulation in other pathological conditions, but its role in AP has not been fully elucidated.In this study, I used caerulein (Cae)-induced primary mouse pancreatic acinar cells as an AP model in vitro, with ferroptosis inhibitor ferrostatin-1 (Fer-1) treatment to assess ferroptotic involvement. I further manipulated SOX4 expression via shRNA-mediated knockdown, and its downstream effects on ferroptosis-related markers were evaluated by qPCR, WB, and lipid peroxidation assays. I also performed chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and dual-luciferase reporter assays to determine whether SOX4 directly regulates Lysophosphatidylcholine Acyltransferase 3 (LPCAT3), a key enzyme in ferroptosis modulation.I found that SOX4 expression was upregulated in Cae-induced AP cells, correlating with increased ferroptotic markers, including elevated lipid ROS, MDA, and Fe2⁺ levels, and corresponding expression changes of ferroptosis-related proteins. SOX4 knockdown mitigated ferroptosis and improved cell viability. Further analysis revealed that SOX4 binds to the promoter region of LPCAT3 and enhances its transcription. Overexpression of LPCAT3 partially reversed the protective effects of SOX4 silencing.This study identifies SOX4 as a key regulator of ferroptosis in AP through transcriptional upregulation of LPCAT3. Targeting the SOX4-LPCAT3 axis may represent an advanced therapeutic strategy for mitigating pancreatic injury in AP.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Germinal matrix hemorrhage-intraventricular hemorrhage (GMH-IVH) leads to neural cell death and inflammation, resulting in white matter injury in premature infants. Here, we show that IVH-induced iron deposition, ferroptosis, myelination failure, and disruption in lipid and oxylipin metabolism are mitigated by iron chelation using deferoxamine. We also identify the specific lipid and oxylipin metabolites and enzymes dysregulated in IVH, which are rescued by deferoxamine treatment. Our findings reveal that IVH causes iron accumulation, ferroptosis, and apoptosis, and leads to gene enrichment that contributes to cell death and oxidative injury in premature rabbits and human infants. IVH activates phospholipases (PLA2) and lysophosphatidylcholine acyltransferase-3 (LPCAT3), elevating levels of polyunsaturated fatty acids, lysophospholipids, and triacylglycerols, which contribute to neural cell injury. Furthermore, IVH upregulates cyclooxygenase, lipoxygenase, and cytochrome-P450 enzymes, which increases oxylipin production, thereby exacerbating inflammation. Importantly, iron chelation using systemic deferoxamine reduces levels of cPLA2, LPCAT3, and oxylipin-generating enzymes, restoring levels of lysophospholipids, triacylglycerols, and oxylipins in kits with IVH. Consistently, deferoxamine treatment alleviates IVH-induced ferroptosis, inflammation, microglial lipid accumulation, myelination failure, and neurological dysfunction. The study identifies that iron-triggered enzymatic dysregulation of lipid and oxylipin metabolism increases the generation of oxylipins and pro-inflammatory lipid metabolites, contributing to white matter injury in IVH survivors. These effects are mitigated by iron chelation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Poly- and perfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) are pollutants disrupting lipid metabolism and cell membrane integrity with unclear molecular mechanisms. Molecular docking and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations were used to investigate whether the perfluorinated analogue of palmitic acid (PFHxDA, parametrized through SwissParam) could enter membrane lipid metabolism and get embedded in cell membranes, possibly interfering with their properties. The possible role of PFHxDA as substrate for enzymes involved in the biosynthesis of membrane lipids was studied by investigating its interaction with two enzymes belonging to the phosphatidylcholine biosynthetic pathway, Acyl-CoA synthetase 5 and Choline Phosphotransferase 1, through 200 ns MD simulations. PFHxDA and metabolic derivatives displayed binding and dynamic behaviors comparable to native substrates, suggesting they might be either substrates or inhibitors. Concerning membranes, PFHxDA-containing lipids showed altered bilayer observables such as cholesterol packing, area per lipid, membrane thickness, and membrane density during 300 ns MD simulations, possibly affecting membrane fluidity and organization. Although theoretical, these results provide hypothesis-generating yet compelling mechanistic insights into PFAS-mediated disruption of lipid metabolism and membrane integrity, prioritizing specific experimental follow-up.© 2026 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
Choline, an essential methyl donor nutrient, and its oxidation product betaine support one-carbon metabolism in early development, yet their prenatal effects on offspring hepatic metabolites and methyltransferase expression remain unknown. Gestational choline or betaine supplementation lowered Wistar rat offspring body weight, food intake, and relative adipose mass compared to the control. Both nutrients increased hepatic glycerophosphocholine in females and males, while betaine elevated sphingomyelin in males and dimethylglycine in both sexes. Choline and betaine raised hepatic S-adenosylmethionine (SAM), with males showing stepwise increases in SAM and the SAM/S-adenosylhomocysteine ratio. Betaine increased DNA methyltransferase (Dnmt) 1 and phosphatidylethanolamine N-methyltransferase gene expression in females, whereas males exhibited broader methyltransferase responses. Kinetic modeling indicated that SAM availability dominated local enzyme sensitivities. Regularized Canonical Correlation Analysis revealed a compact SAM-linked module in females versus a broader Dnmt1-centered module in males. Together, these findings demonstrate nutrient-specific programming of one-carbon metabolism, reflecting the unique metabolic roles of choline and betaine.
Phosphatidylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PEMT) catalyzes the transfer of methyl groups to phosphatidylethanolamine to generate phosphatidylcholine (PC). PC produced de novo through this pathway is preferentially used for very-low-density lipoprotein assembly and is essential for its normal hepatic secretion as well as for bile acid detoxification. While human PEMT loss-of-function polymorphisms are linked to increased metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease risk, the enzyme's role as a primary driver of progressive liver disease remains underexplored. We utilized PEMT knockout (PEMT KO) mice on a standard chow diet to model this deficiency. Histopathological analysis showed that while 2-month-old PEMT KO mice were protected, 6-month-old KOs of both sexes spontaneously developed extensive micro- and macrovesicular steatosis, parenchymal inflammation, and granulomatous inclusions. This severe, age-dependent pathology was confirmed by elevated hepatic triglyceride levels, bile acids, impaired methylation potential, and a cascade of secondary injuries, including increased oxidative stress, impaired proteasomal function, and the induction of cellular senescence markers. This bile acid toxicity and oxidative stress activated the central innate immune sensor, the NLRP3 inflammasome, driving pronounced macrophage infiltration and chronic inflammation. Picrosirius red staining and protein analysis confirmed the progression to severe pericellular fibrosis. Our study establishes that PEMT deficiency is sufficient to initiate and drive the complete progression from steatosis to advanced liver fibrosis, identifying PEMT as a critical metabolic checkpoint and a potent therapeutic target for mitigating progressive liver disease.© 2026 The Author(s).
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH) is associated with increased expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ, Pparg) and reduced expression of genes involved in methionine metabolism in the liver. The nuclear receptor PPARγ is activated by fatty acids, and the knockout of Pparg in hepatocytes (Pparg ΔHep) reduced the negative effects of MASH on methionine metabolism. Here, we sought to determine whether hepatocyte Pparg is required for the transcriptional regulation of genes involved in hepatic methionine metabolism in conditions with altered fatty acid flux to the liver: fasting, refeeding, and high-fat diet (HFD)-induced obesity/steatosis. Fasting induced liver steatosis and increased the expression of key genes involved in the methionine metabolism in the liver, while 6h-refeeding reversed these effects and reduced the expression of phosphatidylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (Pemt) and cystathionine beta synthase (Cbs). Overall, fasting and refeeding did not alter hepatocyte Pparg expression nor Pparg ΔHep affected fasting and refeeding-mediated regulation of methionine metabolism gene expression. Diet-induced steatosis reduced hepatic Pemt expression in control (Pparg-intact) mice, and the thiazolidinedione (TZD)-mediated activation of PPARγ in diet-induced obese control (Pparg-intact) mice reduced the expression of betaine homocysteine S-methyltransferase (Bhmt) and Cbs. However, diet-induced steatosis increased hepatocyte Pparg expression, and Pparg ΔHep blocked the negative effects of HFD and TZD on hepatic methionine metabolism. The PPARγ-dependent reduction of hepatic Bhmt and Cbs expression was confirmed in mouse primary hepatocytes. Taken together, hepatocyte Pparg may serve as a negative regulator of hepatic methionine metabolism in diet-induced obese mice and these actions could contribute to promoting the onset of MASH.
Chemoresistance remains a major barrier to effective colorectal cancer (CRC) therapy, yet its metabolic underpinnings are poorly defined. Here, we integrate lipidomic profiling, enzymatic analysis, and functional perturbation approaches to elucidate the contribution of phosphatidylcholine (PC) metabolism and its biosynthetic regulator Choline Phosphotransferase 1 (CHPT1) to drug response. Comparative analysis of chemosensitive and chemoresistant CRC cell lines revealed that resistant HT29 cells exhibited significantly higher PC content and altered PC/lysophosphatidylcholine (LPC)ratios relative to sensitive counterparts. Importantly, functional perturbation confirmed causality: CHPT1 overexpression in SW620 cells was sufficient to promote PC accumulation and confer a chemoresistant phenotype. These findings identify CHPT1 as a metabolic gatekeeper of chemoresistance. Consistently, Human Protein Atlas survival analyses further support its clinical relevance, as elevated CHPT1 expression correlates with poor patient outcomes in CRC. Mechanistically, CHPT1-driven PC enrichment may sustain pro-survival signaling, while reducing lysophospholipid-mediated stress pathways. To therapeutically target this vulnerability, we investigated edelfosine (Edel), an alkyl-lysophospholipid that disrupts lipid rafts and inhibits PC biosynthesis upstream of CHPT1. Notably, edelfosine-mediated disruption of the Kennedy pathway enhances chemosensitivity in the resistant CRC model. Collectively, our study identifies CHPT1 and PC metabolism as central determinants of CRC drug response and proposes edelfosine-based metabolic reprogramming as a promising strategy to overcome resistance.
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH) is a chronic liver disorder with limited effective therapeutic options. Emerging lipidomic studies suggest that alterations in membrane-associated lipids contribute to MASH pathophysiology; however, nutritional interventions capable of modifying these lipid alterations remain poorly defined. This study aimed to investigate the effects of coenzyme Q10 (CoQ) supplementation on hepatic lipidomic remodeling in a methionine- and choline-deficient (MCD) diet-induced mouse model of MASH.Male C57BL/6J mice were fed a methionine- and choline-sufficient diet or an MCD diet for 4 weeks, with MCD-fed mice receiving vehicle or CoQ (100 mg/kg body weight/day). Hepatic lipid profiles were assessed using untargeted LC-MS-based lipidomics, and expression of genes involved in phospholipid and sphingolipid metabolism was quantified by quantitative real-time PCR.CoQ supplementation significantly attenuated liver injury induced by the MCD diet, as evidenced by reduced histological severity and decreased serum ALT and AST levels. Lipidomic analyses revealed marked alterations in hepatic phospholipid and sphingolipid profiles during MASH development. CoQ was associated with remodeling of phospholipid composition, increasing phosphatidylcholine (PC) species and reducing phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) species, resulting in an increased hepatic PC to PE ratio. This change was accompanied by upregulation of Pemt (phosphatidylethanolamine N-methyltransferase). In contrast, sphingolipid accumulation induced by the MCD diet remained largely unchanged by CoQ, and Smpd1 (sphingomyelin phosphodiesterase 1) expression was not altered.CoQ supplementation was associated with attenuation of MCD diet-induced MASH and modulation of hepatic phospholipid homeostasis, supporting its potential as a nutritional intervention targeting membrane lipid dysregulation in MASH.
Background/Objectives: Choline plays an important role in maintaining normal cellular function and overall physiology. Endogenous choline availability depends on the synthesis of phosphatidylcholine via the phosphatidylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PEMT) pathway. Expression of PEMT is influenced by estrogen, as its promoter contains multiple estrogen-responsive elements that enhance enzyme activity. How a low estrogenic condition like menopause influences choline's effect on the brain is not yet fully understood. Methods: In this pilot study, 20 women participated in two study days, with 1650 mg of oral choline bitartrate or a matching placebo administered three hours before a functional and structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan. Blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) functional MRI scans were collected on each study day while subjects performed an N-back working memory task. Results: In this pilot study, no differences in working memory performance were observed, but decreased activation was found for the choline compared to the placebo during the 2-back compared to 0-back conditions in regions of the right temporal lobe (p < 0.001 voxel-level threshold, and p-FDR < 0.05 cluster-size threshold). When we seeded the right planum temporale to examine its functional connectivity with the rest of the brain, we found that choline modulated a large portion of the working memory network during the difficult memory load condition. Conclusions: These results in this pilot study illustrate the effect of choline on working memory-related brain activation and functional connectivity in postmenopausal women. We propose that choline may increase brain functional efficiency in low estrogenic conditions like menopause, but further studies are needed.
Given the significant clinical and economic burden of metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH), there is an urgent imperative to develop effective preventive and therapeutic agents. In this study, we evaluated the preventive effects and potential mechanisms of plant-derived compounds inositols (INS) and inositol hexakisphosphate (IP6) against MASH, utilizing a mouse model induced by western diet combined with low doses of CCl4 (WD/CCl4). The results showed that pretreatment with IP6 or INS significantly reduced obesity, fibrosis and lipid accumulation, alleviated insulin resistance, and prevented hyperglycemia in MASH mice. Both IP6 and INS also alleviated free fatty acid (FFA)- induced lipid accumulation in HepG2 cells. Transcriptomics analysis of the liver revealed that IP6 and INS reversed MASH-related transcriptomic changes, suppressing the expression of pro-fibrotic, pro-inflammatory, and lipid-metabolic genes. Integrated metabolomics and lipidomics revealed that the preventive effect of IP6 and INS against MASH was mediated through the rectification of disordered glycerophospholipid metabolism. Notably, knockdown of PEMT expression abolished the inhibitory effects of IP6 and INS on lipid accumulation, as well as α-SMA and COL-1 expression, in in vitro assays. These findings provide evidence that both IP6 and INS can prevent the development of MASH by improving disorders in glycerophospholipid metabolism, at least partially through the upregulation of PEMT.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Acetic acid bacteria (AAB) produce phosphatidylcholine (PC) as a major membrane component. PC has long been considered important for acetic acid tolerance in AAB, yet direct experimental support remains limited, and its physiological roles under diverse environmental stresses are not well defined. In this study, we constructed PC-deficient mutants of Acetobacter pasteurianus by deleting the phosphatidylethanolamine N-methyltransferase gene. PC deficiency resulted in phosphatidylglycerol accumulation and a tendency toward acyl-chain shortening. Phenotypic analysis showed that PC deficiency impaired growth under ionic, heat, and acidic stresses, indicating that PC supports membrane integrity under these stress conditions. Heterologous expression of PC synthase from Pseudomonas aeruginosa enabled choline-dependent regulation of PC biosynthesis. This system revealed that even low PC levels are sufficient to restore normal growth and acetic acid fermentation. These findings suggest that PC has diverse physiological roles in AAB and its function does not necessarily depend on its abundance in the membrane.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Japan Society for Bioscience, Biotechnology, and Agrochemistry.
The increasing exposure risks of tetrabromobisphenol A (TBBPA) have drawn much attention, owing to its widely produced and ubiquitous occurrence. Despite the potential toxicities are largely explored in vitro experiments, limited evidence exists about the fact that TBBPA induced the targeting organ effects on the metabolism. Herein, we found that TBBPA exposure for 2 weeks induced oxidative stress and lipometabolism disturbance in the liver of male ICR mice. Using the promising approach combining UHPLC-MS with MALDI imaging, 78 discrepant lipid molecules between the control and TBBPA exposure groups were simultaneously screened and identified, with spatial visualization. After the enrichment analysis, the biosynthesis of glycerophospholipid metabolism was the most distinct in the eight metabolic pathways that were involved with TBBPA in the process of liver injury, which was closely associated with hepatocyte membrane stability and lipid transport functions. Furthermore, the Q-PCR analysis and molecular docking results demonstrated that TBBPA promoted the accumulation of lipids like triglyceride (TG), DG, LPE, and LPC, as well as the deficiency of phosphatidylcholine and PE by inhibiting the key genes LPCAT3 and Pcyt2 involved in glycerophospholipid synthesis, simultaneously enhancing the expression of phosphatidylethanolamine N-methyltransferase and Diacylglyceryl acyltransferase 1, the latter being the crucial gene for TG synthesis. This study affords novel insight into further understanding the potential effect of liver organ by TBBPA exposure.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42046816
Psoriasis is a chronic inflammatory skin disorder characterized by dysregulated lipid metabolism, yet the key molecular drivers remain unclear. This study aimed to identify and validate novel metabolic regulators in psoriasis. Using a multi-stage bioinformatics analysis of public datasets with three machine learning algorithms, Choline Kinase Beta (CHKB) was identified as a key upregulated gene strongly associated with sphingolipid metabolism. This finding was validated in clinical samples, where CHKB expression was significantly elevated in psoriatic lesions compared to healthy controls. To investigate its functional role, CHKB was knocked down in an imiquimod-induced psoriasis mouse model and a cytokine-stimulated keratinocyte model. In vivo, CHKB knockdown ameliorated disease severity, reducing epidermal hyperproliferation, inflammation, and oxidative stress. In vitro, silencing CHKB inhibited keratinocyte hyperproliferation, induced G1 cell cycle arrest, and suppressed the secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines. Mechanistically, CHKB knockdown altered sphingolipid metabolism, increasing ceramide levels, and concurrently inhibited the activation of the pro-survival PI3K/Akt/GSK3β signaling pathway in both models. Furthermore, a rescue experiment confirmed that the pro-psoriatic effects of CHKB overexpression in keratinocytes were dependent on this metabolic pathway, as they were reversed by the sphingolipid synthesis activator 4-HPR. Collectively, these findings establish that CHKB promotes psoriasis pathogenesis by regulating sphingolipid metabolism and activating PI3K/Akt/GSK3β signaling, highlighting it as a novel therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Despite effective first-line regimens, some patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) still experience relapse or resistance, emphasizing the urgent need for innovative treatment approaches. Cytidine triphosphate synthase 1 (CTPS1) is a key regulatory and rate-limiting enzyme for de novo nucleotide synthesis pathway. However, the role of CTPS1 in DLBCL and its potential therapeutic value remain unknown. We found that high levels of CTPS1 were associated with poor prognosis in patients with DLBCL. The single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) revealed that phospholipid metabolism and mitophagy-related pathways were activated in DLBCL cells with high CTPS1 expression. Mechanistically, CTPS1 up-regulated the expression of choline/ethanolamine phosphotransferase 1 (CEPT1) by increasing CTP availability, thereby reprogramming glycerophospholipid metabolism. The glycerophospholipids synthesized by CEPT1 maintained mitochondrial homeostasis and promoted BCL2 interacting protein 3 (BNIP3)-mediated mitophagy, ultimately driving the DLBCL progression. Moreover, highly selective CTPS1 inhibitor R80 could reduce the viability of DLBCL cells.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Background/Objectives: Emerging evidence has suggested that choline is an effective treatment for at least some of the neurobehavioral deficits associated with Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders (FASD). However, the mechanism of how choline works to ameliorate ethanol's teratogenic effects, and whether it acts directly on the fetus or indirectly by altering the uterine environment, remains unknown. Previous work from our lab demonstrated that 4 BXD mouse strains that show high levels of ethanol-induced cell death on embryonic day 9.5 (E9.5) have differential responses to choline supplementation. This differential response in mouse strains highlights a need to further understand the role of genetics in choline metabolism. Because the liver is the central organ for choline metabolism, and the embryonic liver of mice is not functional this early in gestation, we focused on choline metabolism in the liver of the dam. Methods: Using a bioinformatics approach, the goals were to assess whether (1) genetic differences in liver choline metabolism in the dam could affect ethanol-induced cell death in a genotype-specific manner and (2) any of these candidate genes in the liver of the dam could be linked to differential response to choline amongst the strains. By performing a literature review, haplotype analysis among the 4 BXD strains, and liver protein expression analysis among 3 strains, we show that there are genetic differences in choline metabolic genes that are consistent with the hypothesis that maternal choline metabolism could mediate differential sensitivity. Results: While we identified two genes as promising candidates for the variable responses to choline supplementation among the four previously identified BXD strains choline/ethanolamine phosphotransferase 1 (cept1) and choline transporter gene solute carrier family 44 member 1 (slc44a1), the wealth of data on slc44a1 makes it the stronger candidate and suggests that it should be further explored. Conclusions: Genetic differences in maternal choline metabolism are present and may underlie variable therapeutic responses to choline, warranting a hypothesis that requires further investigation across animal models and human populations.
Cept1 is essential for de novo phopholipogenesis and is impacted by diabetes. We previously demonstrated that conditional knockdown of Cept1 in the endothelium leads to reduced tissue recovery. Therefore, we hypothesized that Cept1 overexpression may also be sufficient in promoting postischemic angiogenesis and recovery in the setting of diabetes.CEPT1 (choline-ethanolamine phosphotransferase 1) content was evaluated in the peripheral arteries of human patients with peripheral artery disease and with or without diabetes. We also engineered a conditional endothelial cell (EC)-specific Cept1 overexpression mouse (Cept1fl/flCre+) in adult C57BL/6J (C57 black 6J) mice and performed unilateral hindlimb ischemia to assess the role of Cept1 in promoting angiogenesis. Murine aortae and ECs were harvested for single-cell RNA sequencing and molecular pathway analysis.In human arterial intima, CEPT1 was elevated in the setting of peripheral artery disease and diabetes, along with ACOX1 (acyl-coenzyme A oxidase 1), VEGF (vascular endothelial growth factor) R2, p-Akt (phosphorylated Akt), and p-eNOS (phosphorylated endothelial nitric oxide synthase). In mice, single-cell RNA sequencing demonstrated that ECs with Cept1 overexpression were enriched with wound healing, angiogenesis, sprouting, and cell migration pathways. Diabetic Cept1fl/flCre+ mice that underwent hindlimb ischemia demonstrated improved hindlimb perfusion and angiogenesis, and their aortic rings had increased ex vivo capillary sprouting. Cept1 overexpression in ECs significantly increased migration, tubule formation, and proliferation as predicted by single-cell RNA sequencing. Cept1 overexpression in ECs also led to increased expression of Pparα, Acox1, Vegfa, and Vegfr2. Similarly, treatment with siPparα and inhibitors for PPARα (peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor α; GW6471), VEGFR2 (ZM323881), Akt (LY294002), and eNOS (L-NAME [nitro-L-arginine methyl ester]) abrogated CEPT1-induced EC migration.Cept1 overexpression promotes EC function and postischemic recovery. The impact of CEPT1 on ECs is at least in part dependent on p-Akt/p-eNOS angiogenic signaling and PPARα. Because CEPT1 is elevated in diseased human peripheral arterial tissue, these findings suggest that CEPT1 may be playing an important compensatory role in vascular recovery and reperfusion following ischemic injury in the setting of diabetes.
Metabolic dysfunction associated fatty liver disease (MAFLD) is a leading cause of irreversible liver fibrosis and finally liver cancer. Imperatorin was reported to be effective for liver injury and fibrosis, but its effects and mechanisms on MAFLD remain unidentified.The high fat diet (HFD)-induced MAFLD model in the mice and palmitic acid-induced primary mouse hepatocytes were introduced to investigate the effects of imperatorin on lipid metabolism and inflammation. Molecular docking technique, cellular thermal shift assay and surface plasmon resonance (SPR) were performed to confirm the targeting of imperatorin on suppressor of variegation 3-9 homologue 1 (Suv39h1). RNA-sequencing was used to screen the downstream genes affected by Suv39h1 overexpression. The functional relationship between Suv39h1 and its downstream genes of fatty acid-binding proteins (Fabps) was elucidated by CHIP, DNA Pull Down and dual-luciferase reporter assays. Point mutation and knockdown of Set domain of Suv39h1 in palmitic acid-stimulated AML12 cells and HFD mice were adopted to confirm the function of Set domain in MAFLD.Imperatorin could delay MAFLD by affecting lipid metabolism, inflammation and insulin resistance. Knockdown of Suv39h1, the target of imperatorin, weakened the therapeutic effects of imperatorin on MAFLD. Knockdown of  Fabps and choline/ethanolamine phosphotransferase 1 (Cept1), the downstream of Suv39h1, could alleviate the disorder of lipid metabolism. Histone methylation modification of Fabp promoters was mediated by Suv39h1. Knockdown of Set domain of Suv39h1 could increase the protein expression of Fabps and aggravate the progression of MAFLD.Imperatorin ameliorates MAFLD through modulating Suv39h1/Fabps/Cept1 signalling pathway.© 2025 British Pharmacological Society.
Arsenic can enter the human body through environmental exposure via food, drinking water, and chemotherapy for cancer. Prolonged and excessive exposure to arsenic causes various toxic reactions, leading to diseases that significantly impact health and lifespan. Increasing evidence suggests that arsenic damages skeletal muscle tissue by reducing muscle mass and causing atrophy, thereby contributing to conditions such as respiratory and cardiovascular diseases, as well as diabetes. Fatty acid β-oxidation is the most efficient mechanism for ATP production and serves as a primary energy source for tissues, including the heart and skeletal muscles. However, the metabolic mechanisms underlying arsenic's effects on muscle function and pathogenesis remain incompletely understood. In this study, we investigated the role of mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation in arsenic-induced muscular damage using mouse skeletal muscle C2C12 cells. Our results demonstrated a dose-dependent inhibitory effect of sodium arsenite (0-2 µM, 72 hours) on C2C12 cells proliferation, viability, and differentiation (indicated by reduction of myogenic differentiation 1 mRNA expression). Arsenic exposure disrupted mitochondria through increasing reactive oxygen species production, reducing mitochondrial membrane potential to 16.45%, downregulating mitochondrial fatty acid metabolism-related enzymes (carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1B to 15.05% and choline kinase beta mRNA to 49.94%), and decreasing mitochondrial DNA copy number to 42.08%. These findings suggest that arsenic-induced pathological changes in skeletal muscle are associated with impaired mitochondrial membrane function, disrupted fatty acid metabolism, and reduced mitochondrial DNA content in muscle cells.Copyright: © 2025 Yu et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Phosphatidylcholine (PC) and phosphatidylethanolamine (PE), the core phospholipids maintaining eukaryotic membrane structure and function, are predominantly synthesized through the Kennedy pathway. The final step of this pathway is catalyzed by choline phosphotransferase 1 (CHPT1) and choline ethanolamine phosphotransferase 1 (CEPT1). Notably, although these enzymes show high sequence homology, CHPT1 specifically synthesizes PC while CEPT1 catalyzes both PC and PE production, and the mechanism of this substrate selectivity remains unclear. Here, we report the 3.7 Å cryo-EM structure of human CHPT1 (hCHPT1), revealing a homodimer in which each monomer consists of an N-terminal domain, a catalytic domain, and a dimerization domain. Through structural and sequence analyses, along with biochemical characterizations, we identified important residues in the catalytic domain that regulate substrate selectivity. Moreover, cross-species sequence alignment showed ovipara CHPT1 conserves important substrate selectivity residues with CEPT1. This residues conservation may endow ovipara CHPT1 with catalytic bifunctionality comparable to CEPT1. These findings not only elucidate the structural basis for substrate selectivity between CHPT1 and CEPT1, but also provide novel evolutionary perspectives on phospholipid synthase adaptation.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The hepatotoxicity mechanism of cantharidin (CTD), a major active component of Mylabris was explored based on liver lipidome alterations and spatial distributions in female and male rats using lipidomics and matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry imaging (MALDI-MSI). After oral CTD exposure, the livers of female rats were screened for 104 differential lipids including lysophosphatidylethanolamine(LysoPE)(20:2/0:0) and diacylglycerol(DG)(18:2/22:4), whereas the livers of male rats were screened for 76 differential lipids including fatty acid(FA)(24:6) and DG(18:0/22:4). According to the MALDI-MSI results, female rats exhibited 12 differential lipids with alteration in the abundance and spatial distribution of phosphatylcholine(PC), phosphatidylethanolamine(PE), lysophosphatidylcholine(LysoPC), and LysoPE in the liver lesion area. On the other hand, male rats exhibited 8 differential lipids with changes in the abundance and spatial distribution of PC, PE, and FA in the liver lesion area. The lipidomics- and MALDI-MSI-detected differential lipids strongly disrupted glycerophospholipid metabolism in both female and male rats. Additionally, phosphatidate phosphatase (Lipin1), choline/ethanolamine phosphotransferase 1 (CEPT1), and phosphatidylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PEMT) were screened to distinguish CTD hepatoxicity in female and male rats. Western blotting analysis demonstrated a significant elevation in Lipin1 expression in female and male rat livers, accompanied by a decrease in PEMT expression. Furthermore, CEPT1 expression increased significantly in female rat livers and decreased significantly in male rat livers. These findings suggested that CTD could disrupt lipid metabolism in a gender-specific manner. Moreover, the combination of lipidomics and MALDI-MSI could offer valuable insights into CTD-induced hepatotoxicity in rats.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Depression is a neuro-psychiatric disorder that seriously impairs human physical and mental health. Its clinical treatment effect is not satisfactory and the pathogenesis is unclear. Therefore, it is urgent to clarify its pathological mechanism to provide a new direction for the treatment of depression. The "pathological triad", comprising oxidative stress (an imbalance between reactive oxygen species and antioxidant defenses), neuroinflammation (inflammatory responses within the central nervous system), and apoptosis (programmed cell death), has emerged as a central mechanistic driver underlying the pathophysiology of depression. The present study found that chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) drives a significant down-regulation of the synaptojanin-2-binding protein (SYNJ2BP) expression in hippocampal CA1 subregion. Overexpression of SYNJ2BP mitigates oxidative stress, neuroinflammation, neuronal apoptosis and synaptic structural impairment, while concurrently ameliorating depressive- and anxiety-like phenotypes by interacting with SYNJ2 to modulate phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2)/inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) metabolism, and subsequently suppress downstream p38/JNK signaling cascades. Conversely, SYNJ2BP knockdown or exogenous PIP2 administration abrogates these protective effects, whereas inhibition of IP3 signaling recapitulates the beneficial outcomes of SYNJ2BP overexpression. Collectively, our findings reveal a new SYNJ2BP/SYNJ2/PIP2/IP3 signaling axis in neurons of hippocampal CA1 subregion that critically mediates CUMS-induced neuronal damage and emotional behavioral deficits, thereby potentially providing therapeutic targets for depression treatment.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Psoriasis is a chronic inflammatory dermatological disorder, with psoriasis vulgaris (PA) being the most prevalent form. Obesity is a comorbid condition and a risk factor for psoriasis, sharing common susceptibility genes and inflammatory pathways. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of psoriasis. Exosomes, nanoscale extracellular vesicles, facilitate the stable intercellular transfer of miRNAs, reflecting their cellular origin, which makes them promising biomarkers for various diseases. Although much of the research on psoriasis has focused on tissue miRNAs, the role of exosomal miRNAs remains poorly understood. Notably, exosomal miRNAs regulate metabolic phenotypes, such as promoting insulin resistance in obesity. In psoriasis patients, plasma exosomal miRNAs have been shown to influence immune responses through metabolic reprogramming. These findings suggest that plasma exosomal miRNAs could serve as a mechanistic link between psoriasis and obesity.Six PA patients, six psoriasis vulgaris with obesity (PAO) patients, and six healthy controls (HC) were recruited. Plasma was centrifuged to isolate exosomes, which were characterized by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) for morphology, nanoparticle tracking analysis (NTA) for size distribution, and Western blotting (WB) for exosomal marker proteins. Plasma exosomal RNA was extracted and analyzed using next-generation sequencing (NGS) to profile miRNA expression. Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO) regression was employed to identify key miRNAs associated with the psoriasis-obesity comorbidity. Target genes for these miRNAs were identified using miRecords ( http://c1.accurascience.com/miRecords ), miRTarBase ( https://mirtarbase.cuhk.edu.cn ), and TarBase ( https://bio.tools/tarbase# !). Functional enrichment analysis of the predicted target genes was conducted using Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathways. Summary-data-based Mendelian randomization (SMR) analysis was applied to the Genome-Wide Association Study (GWAS) dataset for obesity and psoriasis from the UK Biobank ( https://www.ukbiobank.ac.uk ) to identify genes significantly associated with both conditions. Finally, the key miRNA target genes were cross-referenced with the significant genes for psoriasis and obesity identified through SMR to pinpoint the most crucial target genes.A total of 214 differentially expressed plasma exosomal miRNAs were identified. Compared to the HC group, the PA group showed 27 up-regulated and 50 down-regulated miRNAs, while the PAO group exhibited 119 up-regulated and 31 down-regulated miRNAs. Thirty-four miRNAs were differentially expressed in both the PA and PAO groups compared to the HC group, with 19 up-regulated and 15 down-regulated. LASSO regression identified miR-20a-5p as a key miRNA associated with the psoriasis-obesity comorbidity. GO and KEGG pathway enrichment analyses indicated that the target genes of miR-20a-5p were primarily enriched in signaling pathways, including TNF, TGF-β, p53, and phosphoinositide pathways. SMR analysis identified CDP-Diacylglycerol-Inositol 3-Phosphatidyltransferase (CDIPT) as a target gene of miR-20a-5p, specifically within the phosphatidylinositol signaling pathway.miR-20a-5p may contribute to the comorbidity of PA and obesity by targeting CDIPT and modulating the phosphatidylinositol (PtdIns) signaling pathway.© 2026. The Author(s).
Malaria remains a major global health challenge, caused by several Plasmodium species and transmitted via mosquito vectors. Among these, Plasmodium knowlesi is notable for its zoonotic nature, capable of infecting both macaques and humans. The incidence of P. knowlesi infections has been rising, particularly in Southeast Asia, raising public health concerns. However, compared to other Plasmodium species, the biology, pathophysiology, and transmission dynamics of P. knowlesi remain poorly understood. Given the absence of a licensed vaccine and the increasing threat of drug resistance, a deeper understanding of P. knowlesi biology is essential for effective control and management strategies. This study investigates the metabolomic landscape of P. knowlesi across three intraerythrocytic stagesring, trophozoite, and schizont using mass spectrometry-based metabolomics to gain insights into parasite biology. The analysis revealed distinct metabolic profiles, particularly in the ring stage compared to the other two stages. While glycerophospholipid metabolism and sphingolipid de novo biosynthesis emerged as key pathways associated with common metabolites across all stages, phosphatidylserine synthesis was specifically linked to ring-stage-biased metabolites. Notably, CDP-diacylglycerol-inositol 3-phosphatidyltransferase was highlighted as a promising target based on shared and stage-biased metabolites. Collectively, our findings offer a comprehensive metabolomic profile of P. knowlesi blood-stage development, enhancing our understanding of its biology and identifying potential drug targets that could support the development of novel therapeutic strategies against P. knowlesi malaria.Copyright: © 2025 Uthailak et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Peripheral atherosclerosis (PAS), characterized by lipid plaque accumulation in arterial walls, significantly increases cardiovascular risk. This study aimed to identify molecular biomarkers and elucidate underlying mechanisms of PAS progression. We analyzed 2 gene expression omnibus datasets (GSE28829, GSE100927) to identify differentially expressed genes (P < .05, |log2FC| ≥ 0.585). Functional enrichment (Gene Ontology/Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes) and Mendelian randomization analyses were performed using genome-wide association study and expression quantitative trait loci data. Six hub genes were validated through single-cell RNA sequencing and independent datasets. A diagnostic nomogram was developed and evaluated using calibration curves, decision curve analysis, and receiver operating characteristic metrics. Integrated analysis revealed 6 key PAS-associated genes (leukocyte immunoglobulin-like receptor B1, hematopoietic cell-specific lyn substrate 1, plasminogen activator urokinase, C-type lectin domain family 2 member B, phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate 5-kinase type 1 beta, cofilin 2). The diagnostic model demonstrated exceptional accuracy, achieving area under the receiver operating characteristic curves of 1.0 (training) and 0.975 (validation). Mendelian randomization confirmed causal relationships, with cofilin 2 and phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate 5-kinase type 1 beta showing protective effects (odds ratio 0.74-0.90), while C-type lectin domain family 2 member B, hematopoietic cell-specific lyn substrate 1, leukocyte immunoglobulin-like receptor B1, and plasminogen activator urokinase emerged as risk factors. This multi-omics study identifies novel molecular signatures of PAS and establishes a robust diagnostic tool. The findings advance our understanding of PAS pathogenesis and pave the way for personalized therapeutic strategies.Copyright © 2025 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Probiotics have beneficial effects on improving egg quality, but there is little research about the effect of probiotics on metabolite composition, and the mechanisms are not yet fully understood. The aim of this study was to investigate the potential mechanisms by which compound Bacillus improves egg quality and metabolite composition. A total of 20,000 Jingfen No. 6 laying hens at 381 d old were randomly divided into two treatments: control group with a basal diet, and the basal diet with 5 × 108 CFU/kg compound Bacillus supplementation (Ba) group. The trial lasted eight weeks. The results showed that compound Bacillus improved the gloss and strength of eggshells and reduced the ratio of sand-shell eggs by 23.8%. Specifically, the effective layer of eggshell was thicker and its calcite column was closely connected. Compound Bacillus increased the contents of beneficial fatty acids in the egg yolk, and lipids and lipid-like molecules in the albumen (P < 0.01), while decreased the contents of total cholesterol, triglycerides, and benzene ring compounds in the egg yolk and organic oxygen compounds in the albumen (P < 0.01). In addition, the compound Bacillus increased the calcium absorption in the duodenum by up-regulating the expression of transporters and serum hormone synergism (P < 0.05), and promoted metabolic balance of calcium and phosphorus. Simultaneously, uterine transcriptome showed that the expression of ChaC glutathione specific gamma-glutamylcyclotransferase 1 (CHAC1), glycoprotein-N-acetylgalactosamine 3-beta-galactosyltransferase 1 (C1GALT1), phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate 5-kinase type 1 beta (PIP5K1B), methylenetetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase 2 (MTHFD2), brain enriched myelin associated protein 1 (BCAS1), and squalene epoxidase (SQLE) genes were increased (P < 0.01), indicating that nutrient metabolism activity was enhanced. The expression of the BCAS1, C1GALT1, KLF transcription factor 13 (KLF13), and leucine rich repeat neuronal 1 (LRRN1) was increased (P < 0.01), indicating that the cell proliferation was enhanced, which slowed uterus aging. In conclusion, compound Bacillus improved the eggshell strength and metabolite composition in the egg by promoting metabolic balance of calcium and phosphorus, cell proliferation, and nutrient metabolism in the uterus.© 2024 The Authors.
In gastric cancer (GC), tumor cell metastasis to lymph node may occur, and can be impacted by synaptojanin 2 (SYNJ2). Herein, we explored the mechanism of SYNJ2 in the progress of GC. SYNJ2 level in GC tissues was predicted by GEPIA database. After GC cells were transfected with short hairpin RNA against SYNJ2 (shSYNJ2), shGRB2, SYNJ2 overexpression plasmid and growth factor receptor-bound protein 2 (GRB2) overexpression plasmid, the mRNA levels of SYNJ2 and GRB2 in GC cells were quantified by qRT-PCR. CCK-8, flow cytometry, wound healing, transwell and tube formation assays were performed for detecting viability, apoptosis, migration, invasion and angiogenesis of GC cells. Protein levels of GRB2, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), E-Cadherin, N-Cadherin and Vimentin in GC cells were measured by Western blot. The relationship between SYNJ2 and GRB2 was assessed by Co-immunoprecipitation (CO-IP) assay. SYNJ2 was highly expressed in GC tissues and cells. SYNJ2 overexpression promoted viability, migration, invasion, angiogenesis and GRB2 level, and inhibited apoptosis of GC cells, while shSYNJ2 exhibited opposite effects. GRB2 overexpression boosted yet shGRB2 suppressed cell migration, invasion and angiogenesis. Notably, SYNJ2 could interact with GRB2. GRB2 overexpression and shGRB2 reversed the effects of shSYNJ2 and overexpressed SYNJ2 on cell migration, invasion and angiogenesis and levels of metastasis-related proteins, respectively. In conclusion, SYNJ2 promotes GC cell metastasis and angiogenesis by up-regulating GRB2.Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Synaptojanin 2 (SYNJ2) has crucial role in various tumors, but its role in papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) remains unexplored. This study first detected SYNJ2 protein expression in PTC using immunohistochemistry method and further assessed SYNJ2 mRNA expression through mRNA chip and RNA sequencing data and its association with clinical characteristics. Additionally, KEGG, GSVA, and GSEA analyses were conducted to investigate potential biological functions, while single-cell RNA sequencing data were used to explore SYNJ2's underlying mechanisms in PTC. Meanwhile, immune infiltration status in different SYNJ2 expression groups were analyzed. Besides, we investigated the immune checkpoint gene expression and implemented drug sensitivity analysis. Results indicated that SYNJ2 is highly expressed in PTC (SMD = 0.66 [95% CI: 0.17-1.15]) and could distinguish between PTC and non-PTC tissues (AUC = 0.74 [0.70-0.78]). Furthermore, the study identified 134 intersecting genes of DEGs and CEGs, mainly enriched in the angiogenesis and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) pathways. Subsequent analysis showed the above pathways were activated in PTC epithelial cells. PTC patients with high SYNJ2 expression showed higher sensitivity to the six common drugs. Summarily, SYNJ2 may promote PTC progression through angiogenesis and EMT pathways. High SYNJ2 expression is associated with better response to immunotherapy and chemotherapy.© 2024 The Author(s). IET Systems Biology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of The Institution of Engineering and Technology.
We conducted a case-control study to investigate the effects of genetics and gene-environment interactions on major depressive disorders (MDD) in the Chinese population. Using targeted-exome sequencing, we included 984 patients with MDD and 508 healthy controls in our study. A logistic regression model was employed to analyze the association between single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and MDD. Additionally, a linear regression model was utilized to examine the associations between (1) gene-environment interaction and the 17-item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale, (2) SNPs and the Beck Scale for Suicide Ideation-Chinese version, and gene-environment interaction and the Beck scale for suicide ideation-Chinese version. The association analysis between SNPs and MDD revealed that the following loci reached genome-wide significance: rs2305554 of the cholinergic receptor nicotinic alpha 7 subunit, rs9459173 of synaptojanin 2, rs372369000 of beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase 6, rs866666526 of dopa decarboxylase, rs1254882194 of calcium/calmodulin dependent protein kinase ID, rs199880487 of reelin, rs1167948188 of reelin, rs1390140186 of QKI, KH domain containing RNA binding, and rs1776342 of period circadian regulator 3. The association analysis between SNPs and the Beck Scale for Suicide Ideation-Chinese version indicated that rs264272 and rs1774784888 of piezo type mechanosensitive ion channel component 2 reached genome-wide significance. These findings may enhance our understanding of MDD and contribute to the development of new potential targets for its diagnosis and treatment.© 2024 The Authors.
Phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate [PtdIns(4,5)P2] is implicated in various processes, including hormone-induced signal transduction, endocytosis, and exocytosis in the plasma membrane. However, how H2O2 accumulation regulates the levels of PtdIns(4,5)P2 in the plasma membrane in cells stimulated with epidermal growth factors (EGFs) is not known. We show that a plasma membrane PtdIns(4,5)P2-degrading enzyme, synaptojanin (Synj) phosphatase, is inactivated through oxidation by H2O2. Intriguingly, H2O2 inhibits the 4-phosphatase activity of Synj but not the 5-phosphatase activity. In EGF-activated cells, the oxidation of Synj dual phosphatase is required for the transient increase in the plasma membrane levels of phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate [PtdIns(4)P], which can control EGF receptor-mediated endocytosis. These results indicate that intracellular H2O2 molecules act as signaling mediators to fine-tune endocytosis by controlling the stability of plasma membrane PtdIns(4)P, an intermediate product of Synj phosphoinositide dual phosphatase.Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Deficits in levels of phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate [PI(4,5)P2] mediate Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis and etiology. The depletion of PI(4,5)P2 has been reported in AD in both human brain and animal models. Repletion of the synaptic pool of PI(4,5)P2, through haploinsufficiency of the degrading enzyme, Synaptojanin 1, ameliorated behavioral deficits in a mouse model of AD, in spite of accumulating amyloid. In order to refine the contribution of PI(4,5)P2 to AD, we used optogenetic translocation of the PI(4,5)P2-synthesizing enzyme, phosphoinositide phosphate 4 kinase2A (PIP4K2A) to the plasma membrane using light inducible dimerizable cryptochrome 2 (CRY-2) and the transcription factor CRY2-binding domain (CIBN) fused to the plasma membrane-targeting motif (CAAX). Spatiotemporally controlled production of phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate [PI(4,5)P2] at the plasma membrane induced amelioration of behavioral deficits in a mouse model of AD. Imaging mass spectrometry confirmed alteration of specific PI(4,5)P2 acyl species, di-oleate, indicating that precise PI(4,5)P2 species may ultimately be leveraged for therapeutic intervention.© 2026. The Author(s).
Biallelic variants in SYNJ1 were initially identified in early-onset Parkinson's disease, often accompanied by atypical neurological manifestations. However, their occurrence in patients with a multiple system atrophy-mimicking phenotype has not been well described.A 71-year-old Chinese woman with gradually worsening motor and autonomic symptoms was assessed. The evaluation included clinical examination, genetic testing, and functional studies.The patient exhibited gait instability, cerebellar ataxia, parkinsonism, urinary autonomic dysfunction, and poor levodopa responsiveness. Genetic analysis identified novel compound heterozygous SYNJ1 variants (c.1574 A > G and c.142G > T). Functional assays evaluating each variant individually showed reduced synaptojanin-1 abundance without altered localization.This case expands the clinical context in which biallelic SYNJ1 variants may be implicated and suggests that SYNJ1 analysis could be considered in atypical parkinsonism with cerebellar dysfunction.© 2026. Fondazione Società Italiana di Neurologia.
N-acetyl-l-leucine (NALL), a derivative of the branched-chain amino acid leucine, has shown therapeutic potential for neurodegenerative diseases, including in prodromal stages of Parkinson's disease (PD). However, the mechanism of its protective effects has been largely unknown. Using human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived dopaminergic neurons from patients carrying GBA1, LRRK2, or VPS35 mutations, as well as from sporadic PD cases, we found that NALL treatment markedly reduced Ser129 phosphorylated α-synuclein (pS129-syn). Discovery-based proteomic analysis revealed that NALL treatment upregulated lysosomal, mitochondrial, and synaptic proteins without inducing cytotoxicity. The reduction of pS129-syn was dependent on serine protease HTRA1, which was robustly induced by NALL. Moreover, NALL increased the expression of wild-type parkin in mutant dopaminergic neurons, leading to increased glycosylated dopamine transporter, elevated synaptic membrane-associated synaptojanin-1, and accelerated synaptic vesicle endocytosis, suggesting improved synaptic function. Furthermore, in LRRK2R1441C knockin mice, NALL administration decreased pS129-syn, elevated parkin levels, and ameliorated dopamine-dependent motor learning deficits. These findings highlight the therapeutic potential of NALL for PD by its protective effects on α-synuclein pathology and synaptic function in vulnerable dopaminergic neurons.
White matter lesions (WMLs) are increasingly recognized as early and critical pathological features of Parkinson's disease (PD). C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 2 (Cxcr2) plays an important role in regulating oligodendrocyte progenitor cell (OPC) maturation and WMLs repair. However, the functional roles and underlying mechanisms of Cxcr2 in the pathogenesis of PD remain unclear. In the present study, we demonstrated that Cxcr2 expression progressively increased with PD progression across multiple PD models and was positively correlated with the severity of WMLs. Pharmacological inhibition of Cxcr2 with SB225002 promoted OPC differentiation and myelin repair, thereby alleviating WMLs and gait disturbances in MPTP-induced PD mice. These improvements further contributed to the attenuation of dopaminergic neurodegeneration and nigrostriatal pathway-related motor deficits in PD mice. Proteomic analysis identified synaptojanin 1 (Synj1) as a key downstream effector of Cxcr2 in OPCs. We revealed that inhibition of Cxcr2 could promote oligodendrocyte-neuron communication via Synj1-mediated vesicular transport, thereby preserving axonal integrity and neuronal function. In conclusion, this study uncovered the protective role and mechanisms of Cxcr2 inhibition on dopaminergic neurons through attenuating WMLs, highlighting Cxcr2 as a potential therapeutic target for PD.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41330442 is a review article
Synaptic dysfunction is a hallmark of early Parkinson's disease (PD), but molecular mechanisms underlying dopaminergic synaptic impairment and vulnerability remain poorly understood. Here, we identify a functional interaction between two PD genes, Synaptojanin1 and VPS35, in regulating endosomal sorting of the dopamine D2 short (D2S) autoreceptor, thereby modulating dopamine signaling. We show that Synaptojanin1 deficiency results in intracellular retention of the D2S, impaired gating of dopamine release and reduced behavioral responsiveness to a D2-like agonist. VPS35 is recruited to D2S-containing and Rab7a-positive endosomes in a Synj1-dependent manner, and VPS35 overexpression overcomes Synj1 deficiency-associated impairment in D2S surface delivery in axons. Moreover, Synj1 regulates VPS35 expression and localization in dopaminergic axons, indicating their broader roles in presynaptic cargo sorting. These findings reveal a novel cooperation between a synaptic vesicle endocytic regulator and a core component of the retromer complex, providing new mechanistic insights into presynaptic trafficking and its disruption in PD.
It is not understood why children with Down syndrome (DS, trisomy of chromosome 21) have an increased risk of seizures, including infantile spasms and tonic-clonic seizures. Using a novel humanized mouse model of DS (TcMAC21), we recently showed that TcMAC21 mice express an increased propensity to infantile spasms and demonstrate an increased neocortical synaptic excitation-to-inhibition ratio. To understand the pathophysiology of DS that may predispose animals to increased seizure susceptibility, we investigated 1) kainic-acid receptor (KAR)-mediated excitation, 2) gamma-aminobutyric acid receptors A and B (GABAAR and GABABR)-mediated inhibition, and 3) synaptojanin 1 (SYNJ1) function in TcMAC21 mice, as genes encoding KAR, GABABR and SYNJ1 are among those triplicated in DS. Layer V neocortical neurons were recorded using whole-cell patch-clamp recordings to test KAR, GABAAR, GABABR, and SYNJ functions. TcMAC21 neurons responded to focal KA application with significantly larger currents than control euploid neurons. GABAAR-mediated spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents (sIPSCs) were less frequent in TcMAC21 than in euploid neurons while sIPSC amplitudes remained unchanged. Bath application of a GABABR agonist, baclofen, caused similar hyperpolarization in TcMAC21 and euploid neurons. During repetitive synaptic stimulation, excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) in TcMAC21 neurons decayed slower and to a lesser extent than control euploid neurons, indicating less transmitter depletion (i.e., enhanced synaptic vesicle trafficking). These data provide the first physiological evidence for gain-of-function of KAR and SYNJ1, and altered GABA-mediated synaptic function in TcMAC21 mice, and may represent some important DS-specific mechanisms of seizure pathogenesis.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The continued release of neurotransmitters from central projections of nociceptors during chronic pain requires synaptic vesicle (SV) recycling. Mediators of SV endocytosis and recycling are thus pivotal for sustained pain transmission in nociceptive spinal circuits. We hypothesized that disruption of SV endocytosis in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) nociceptors would impede synaptic transmission and thereby provide sustained relief from multimodalities of pain. Synaptojanin 1 (Synj1) and endophilin A1 (EndoA1), which mediate the neck formation of the endocytic pit and subsequent endocytosis, were detected in primary sensory neurons of mouse DRG by immunofluorescence and RNAScope in situ hybridization. Intrathecal injection of Synj1 and EndoA1 siRNA or shRNA successfully knocked down Synj1 and Sh3gl2 (EndoA1) mRNA in DRG neurons and suppressed acute nociception induced by agonists of pronociceptive receptors and ion channels in male mice, without affecting normal motor functions. Synj1 and EndoA1 knockdown inhibited synaptic transmission between primary sensory neurons and neurons in lamina I/II of the spinal cord dorsal horn by suppressing SV release from presynaptic primary afferent neurons. Synj1 and EndoA1 silencing reversed mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia in preclinical models of postoperative and cancer pain. Knockdown of dynamin 1 (Dnm1) and adaptor-associated protein kinase 1 (AAK1), previously characterized mediators of SV endocytosis in nociceptive spinal circuits, also alleviated pain-like behavior in these models. Thus, Synj1, EndoA1, Dnm1, and AAK1 mediate SV recycling and are thus required for sustained synaptic transmission in nociceptive spinal circuits. Disruption of SV recycling effectively reduces nociceptive transmission, providing a novel strategy for pain relief.Copyright © 2025 International Association for the Study of Pain.
Triphenyl phosphate (TPhP) is a commonly used organophosphorus flame retardant, and its potential health risks to mothers and infants are considerable. Our previous research revealed that gestational TPhP exposure significantly reduces the depth of placental implantation and impairs uterine spiral arteries remodelling, leading to preeclampsia (PE)-like symptoms, but the underlying mechanism remains unclear. In this study, we further demonstrate that TPhP activated the transcription of Phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) by activating peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma (PPARγ). This activation subsequently inhibits the PI3K-AKT-mTOR signaling pathway, modulates autophagy homeostasis, and inhibits the migration and invasion of extravillous trophoblast (EVT) cells. Notably, knockdown of PTEN or PPARγ with shRNA, or inhibition of autophagy with chloroquine (CQ) alleviates the TPhP-induced inhibition of EVT cells migration or invasion. Furthermore, using an established murine intrauterine exposure model, we confirmed that TPhP activates PPARγ, increases PTEN expression in placental trophoblast, inhibits the PI3K-AKT-mTOR signaling pathway and disturbs autophagy homeostasis. Collectively, these findings elucidate that TPhP inhibits EVT cells migration and invasion via the PPARγ-PTEN-PI3K-AKT-mTOR mediated autophagy pathway, providing a new toxicity pathway in placental toxicology. Additionally, this study provides new insights into the etiological research of PE.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Synthetic oxytocin (Pitocin) is the most commonly used pharmacologic agent for induction and augmentation of labor. Beyond its uterotonic effects, oxytocin plays a critical role in neurodevelopment and social behavior. Dysregulated oxytocin signaling has been implicated in autism spectrum disorder (ASD), raising concern that perinatal exposure to exogenous oxytocin may have lasting neurodevelopmental consequences. This study aimed to determine whether offspring harboring a genetic predisposition for ASD are differentially impacted by perinatal oxytocin exposures, with a focus on long-term oxytocin signaling and autism-like behavior. Pregnant mice carrying offspring with heterozygous mutations in phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome ten (Pten), a well-established monogenic risk factor for ASD, received continuous oxytocin versus phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) control via micro-osmotic pumps during late gestation. Wild-type (WT) offspring exposed to each treatment served as a secondary control. Adult offspring were assessed for oxytocin receptor (Oxtr) methylation in the frontal cortex and hippocampus, oxytocin expression in the hypothalamus, serum oxytocin levels, and were subject to a battery of social and anxiety-related behavior tests. Perinatal oxytocin exposure produced genotype-dependent effects in offspring. Epigenetic analyses revealed bidirectional remodeling of Oxtr methylation in the frontal cortex and hippocampus, with increased exon 1 methylation in WT mice and decreased methylation in Pten-mutant mice, resulting in significant genotype-treatment interactions. Hypothalamic oxytocin expression increased following treatment regardless of genotype, though baseline levels were higher in Pten-mutant mice. Neither oxytocin treatment nor genotype impacted long-term serum oxytocin levels. Behavioral outcomes were modest but context-specific: repetitive behaviors and cognition performance were unchanged, but oxytocin-treated Pten-mutant mice exhibited increased anxiety-like behavior alongside improved social memory. In contrast, oxytocin-treated WT mice showed reduced social novelty preference. Exploratory analyses suggested potential sex-dependent trends. Our findings support a model in which genetic susceptibility shapes the epigenetic encoding of early-life hormonal signals, thereby recalibrating oxytocin system function and downstream behavioral outcomes. Together, these data highlight the context-dependent effects of perinatal oxytocin exposure and argue against uniformly beneficial or detrimental effects, emphasizing the importance of gene-environment interactions in neurodevelopmental trajectories.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) is a key tumor suppressor gene that negatively regulates the PI3K/AKT pathway. PTEN deficiency is the most frequent molecular alteration in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC); however, the relationship between PTEN protein loss and underlying genomic alterations remains incompletely understood.Fifty TNBC cases were evaluated for PTEN protein expression by immunohistochemistry on tissue microarrays. PTEN hotspot mutations (Exons 1, 5, 7, and 9) were analyzed using Sanger sequencing, whereas copy number alterations were assessed by multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA) assay. PTEN alterations were correlated with clinicopathological characteristics. External validation of PTEN mRNA and protein expression and prognostic significance was performed using publicly available TCGA/CPTAC datasets and Kaplan-Meier plotter.PTEN protein loss was observed in 41/50 TNBC cases (82%), indicating that PTEN deficiency is a frequent event in this subtype. PTEN mutations were detected in six cases (12%) and were confined exclusively to Exon 5, comprising one missense mutation (c.277C>A) and two truncating mutations (c.430del and c.433del). MLPA identified PTEN copy number alterations in four cases (8%), including heterozygous deletions and duplications. No significant association was observed between PTEN protein expression and genomic alterations, highlighting a substantial genotype-phenotype discordance. Analysis of independent public datasets confirmed significantly reduced PTEN mRNA and protein expression in TNBC compared with luminal and HER2-positive breast cancers. Patients with low PTEN expression showed a trend toward shorter overall survival (23.5 vs. 38.9 months), though the difference did not reach statistical significance.PTEN protein loss is highly prevalent in TNBC but is only partially explained by mutations and copy number alterations, suggesting that additional regulatory mechanisms, such as epigenetic or posttranscriptional events, contribute to PTEN inactivation. These findings underscore the biological importance of PTEN deficiency in TNBC and support further investigation of PTEN as a potential prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026 Sandeep Kumar et al. International Journal of Breast Cancer published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury induces cardiomyocyte apoptosis, oxidative stress and elevated myocardial injury markers. This study aimed to investigate whether the microRNA-548a-5p (miR-548a-5p)/phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome 10 (PTEN) axis mediates the cardioprotection conferred by isoflurane (ISO). An in vitro hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R) injury model was established using H9c2 cardiomyocytes, including control, H/R and ISO pretreatment groups. We detected miR-548a-5p and PTEN expression by RT-qPCR, and evaluated cell viability, apoptosis, myocardial injury markers including creatine kinase-MB (CK-MB), cardiac troponin I (cTnI), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), and reactive oxygen species (ROS) using CCK-8, flow cytometry, ELISA and DCFH-DA staining. Dual-luciferase reporter assay validated the direct binding between miR-548a-5p and PTEN. H/R downregulated miR-548a-5p and upregulated PTEN, accompanied by decreased cell viability, increased apoptosis, myocardial injury and oxidative stress. 1.0% ISO pretreatment reversed these adverse alterations, restored miR-548a-5p and suppressed PTEN expression. miR-548a-5p inhibition attenuated ISO-elicited cardioprotection, whereas PTEN silencing restored the cardioprotective capacity compromised by miR-548a-5p inhibition. In conclusion, ISO exerts cardioprotective effects via the miR-548a-5p/PTEN signaling axis, offering a potential therapeutic target for I/R injury.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Biochemical and Molecular Toxicology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Elevated phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) expression is observed in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain, yet the precise mechanism through which PTEN contributes to AD progression remains undefined. This study provides the direct evidence that PTEN promotes neurodegeneration by driving neuronal ferroptosis. Using APP/PS1 transgenic mice with hippocampal-specific PTEN knockdown mediated by adeno-associated virus (AAV), we demonstrated that downregulation of PTEN substantially ameliorates cognitive dysfunction and neuronal loss. Mechanistically, PTEN silencing upregulated glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4), inhibiting lipid peroxidation and ferroptosis. We identified a dual-signaling framework through which PTEN regulates GPX4 expression. PTEN reduction activates the PI3K/AKT axis, which drives GSK3β phosphorylation and facilitates nuclear translocation of nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2). Concurrently, PTEN knockdown induces phosphorylation and nuclear translocation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3). Both Nrf2 and STAT3 act as transcriptional activators of GPX4, establishing two convergent axes: PTEN/AKT/GSK3β/Nrf2/GPX4 and PTEN/AKT/STAT3/GPX4. These pathways cooperatively upregulate GPX4 expression, thereby attenuating lipid peroxidation and inhibiting ferroptosis. Importantly, PTEN knockdown restored redox homeostasis by bolstering cellular antioxidant defenses. Our findings reveal a novel PTEN-regulated ferroptotic pathway in AD pathogenesis and highlight PTEN as a promising therapeutic target for AD.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
This study aimed to develop a three-dimensional (3D) collagen type I hydrogel scaffold for modeling spinal neuron culture under high-glucose conditions, thereby simulating environments such as diabetic neuropathy and maternal diabetes. Hydrogels were fabricated using rat tail collagen type I. Porosity was assessed via scanning electron microscopy (SEM), and viscoelastic properties were evaluated using amplitude sweep testing with a rheometer. Rat embryonic spinal neurons were cultured in 2D and 3D hydrogel models. Neuronal morphology was assessed using Sholl analysis. Cell viability and cytotoxicity under glucose stress were evaluated using the 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay and live/dead imaging. Curcumin was delivered via β-cyclodextrin metal-organic frameworks (β-CD-MOFs). Phosphatase and Tensin Homolog (PTEN) gene expression was analyzed by real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) analysis revealed an average pore size of 57.96 μm. The hydrogel's elastic modulus ranged from 138.56 to 178.25 Pa, with tan δ values between 0.124 and 0.180, indicating a predominantly elastic nature. Viability assays confirmed hydrogel biocompatibility. Neurons cultured in 3D exhibited significantly greater neurite outgrowth and branching complexity. High-glucose exposure caused dose-dependent reductions in cell viability. Treatment with 6.8 μM curcumin via β-CD-MOFs improved viability in both 2D and 3D models. Glucose exposure significantly upregulated PTEN expression, which was attenuated by curcumin treatment. The developed collagen type I hydrogel scaffold provides suitable porosity, mechanical compliance, and biocompatibility for 3D spinal neuron culture. It serves as a robust platform for investigating neuronal responses to hyperglycemia and potential therapeutic agents such as curcumin.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Phospholipase C gamma-2 (PLCγ2) catalyzes the hydrolysis of the membrane phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2) to form diacylglycerol (DAG) and inositol trisphosphate (IP3), feeding into diverse downstream signaling pathways. PLCG2 polymorphisms have been associated with reduced and/or increased risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and related dementias, longevity, autoinflammation, and immune disorders. In the brain, PLCγ2 is expressed in microglia, and other neuroimmune and vascular interface populations, yet its role in brain homeostasis remains incompletely defined.We analyzed the brains of three-month-old Plcg2 wild-type (WT), heterozygous (Het KO) and homozygous knockout (Homo KO) littermate mice modeling human PLCG2 loss-of-function risk alleles linked to AD risk using a multiomic approach that included lipidomics, metabolomics, proteomics, and transcriptomics, together with immunofluorescence, as well as flow-cytometric profiling of peripheral and brain-draining immune compartments.Plcg2 deficiency substantially impaired early survival and produced splenomegaly without increasing total spleen cellularity, instead shifting spleen composition toward myeloid/innate-enriched cells and away from B cells, with expansion of age-associated B-cell (ABC-like) subsets and parallel reductions in CD4 and CD8 regulatory T cells in spleen and cervical lymph nodes. Brain lipidomics revealed selective depletion of PIP2, despite very low bulk PLCγ2 protein abundance relative to other PLC family members. PLCγ2 loss led to significant reductions in myelin-enriched lipid classes and myelin/paranode-associated proteins, accompanied by compensatory upregulation of oligodendrocyte/myelin genes, and modest shifts in microglial, lysosomal, complement, and oxidative metabolism pathways by NanoString and DIA-MS. Targeted acylcarnitine profiling demonstrated reprogramming of brain oxidative metabolism, with increased short-, medium-, and long-chain acylcarnitines and enrichment of mitochondrial matrix fatty-acid and amino-acid catabolic enzymes in Homo KO brains.Loss of PLCγ2 installs a coordinated program that compromises systemic immune tolerance and subtly erodes central myelin and phosphoinositide homeostasis while enhancing brain oxidative metabolism, effects that extend beyond microglial phagocytic signaling and may underlie increased vulnerability to AD pathology and aging, providing a mechanistic framework for how PLCG2 variation may link systemic immune regulation, white-matter integrity, and neurodegenerative risk.Because constitutive Plcg2 Homo KO mice display high early mortality and intestinal vascular abnormalities, observed phenotypes may reflect developmental compensation and may not fully recapitulate protective human PLCG2 variants.
Colonic ganglioneuromas in children are rare, particularly without associated hereditary syndromes like multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN2B), neurofibromatosis type 1(NF1), or Phosphatase and tensin homolog hamartoma tumor syndrome (PHTS). We report a 12-year-old male with a history of juvenile polyposis syndrome (JPS) and segmental colonic resection for high distal disease burden. During surveillance colonoscopy, a solitary ascending colon polyp was retrieved and found to be a ganglioneuroma. Genetic testing showed gl-9 family hypoxia inducible factor 1 and succinate dehydrogenase complex flavoprotein subunit A variants in the patient and MutL homolog 3 and MutS homolog 3 variants in both the patient and his mother. All genes discovered were classified as variants of uncertain significance. There was no genetic or clinical evidence of MEN2B, NF1, or PHTS. This case highlights that JPS is a heterogenous disorder and may involve increased risk of developing unique polyp subtypes which are not typically associated with that condition. Current JPS recommendations suggest that surveillance colonoscopy may be performed every 3 years which may be insufficient in situations involving novel mutations or unknown JPS genetics.© 2026 The Author(s). JPGN Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The European Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition and the North American Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition.
Phosphatase and tensin homolog-induced kinase 1 (PINK1) is a serine/threonine kinase that plays a key role in mitophagy initiation. Loss-of-function autosomal recessive mutations in PINK1 cause early onset Parkinson's disease (EOPD). Current approaches for studying PINK1 function depend on bulk techniques that can only provide snapshots of activity and could miss the dynamics and cell-to-cell heterogeneity of PINK1 activity or provide an indirect readout of PINK1 activity. Here, we present a protocol using our newly developed phase separation-based PINK1 biosensor (PINK1-SPARK) to observe real-time activity of endogenous PINK1 in single cells. Following transfection of live cells with PINK1-SPARK, cells are treated with mitochondrial depolarizing agents and visualized using widefield or confocal fluorescence microscopy, either following the same cells over time for time-lapse imaging of PINK1 activity or end-point measurements. Thus, PINK1-SPARK is a new tool that enables the measurement of PINK1 activity in single live cells, allowing for further elucidation of the role of PINK1 in mitophagy and cell function. Key features • Detailed protocol for use of PINK1-SPARK, a new PINK1 biosensor introduced in Vineall et al. [1]. • PINK1-SPARK, based on phase separation, has a high signal-to-noise, enabling robust detection of PINK1 activity in multiple cell types under multiple activating conditions. • Enables measurement of real-time endogenous PINK1 activation at the single-cell level.©Copyright : © 2026 The Authors; This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC license.
We report a 38-year-old woman with secondary infertility who became pregnant by in vitro fertilization (IVF). Her pregnancy was complicated by significant and advanced polyhydramnios. At 37 weeks and five days, she was in labor with an unstable fetal condition, and an emergency cesarean section (CS) was required. The intraoperative findings showed 180° uterine torsion, which could not be reduced. A lower posterior transverse hysterectomy was successful in delivering the newborn. The male newborn exhibited severe hypotonia and respiratory failure and was subsequently diagnosed with X-linked myotubular myopathy (XLMTM) via whole exome sequencing (WES), which identified a pathogenic myotubularin 1 (MTM1) gene mutation. Maternal testing confirmed her status as an asymptomatic carrier. This case highlights the profound diagnostic and surgical challenges of uterine torsion. It posits a dual-hit model for its etiology, where fetal XLMTM caused polyhydramnios, the primary mechanical risk factor, while the maternal genetic carrier status is proposed as a novel, speculative hypothesis for a potential underlying predisposition to uterine instability. This observation requires further research to explore the possible genetic contribution to this rare obstetric emergency.Copyright © 2025, Elzewawi et al.
Phosphoinositides constitute a class of seven phospholipids found in cell membranes, regulating various cellular processes like trafficking and signaling. Mutations in their metabolizing enzymes are implicated in several pathologies, including X-linked myotubular myopathy, a severe myopathy caused by mutations in the MTM1 gene. MTM1 (myotubularin 1) acts as a phosphoinositide 3-phosphatase, targeting PI3P (phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate) and phosphatidylinositol 3,5-bisphosphate, crucial for endolysosomal trafficking. Studies in X-linked myotubular myopathy animal models have demonstrated that loss of MTM1 results in PI3P accumulation in muscle. Moreover, inactivating the class II phosphoinositide 3-kinase beta rescues the pathological phenotype and decreases PI3P levels, suggesting that the normalization of PI3P levels could be responsible for that rescue mechanism. In this study, using an Mtm1-KO skeletal muscle cell line, we investigated the localization of the PI3P pool metabolized by MTM1 in endosomal compartments. Our findings reveal that MTM1 metabolizes a pool of PI3P on EEA1 (early endosome antigen 1)-positive endosomes, leading to impaired Rab4 recycling vesicle biogenesis in the absence of MTM1. Furthermore, depletion of class II phosphoinositide 3-kinase beta rescued Mtm1-KO cell phenotype, normalized PI3P level on EEA1-positive endosomes, and restored Rab4-positive vesicle biogenesis. These results indicate that MTM1 is critical for the homeostasis of endosomal trafficking, and that depletion of MTM1 potentially alters cargo recycling through Rab4-positive vesicle trafficking.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 38710289 is a review article
Abnormal expression of myotubularin-related protein 2 (MTMR2) has been identified in certain types of cancer, leading to varying effects on tumor genesis and progression. However, the various biological significances of MTMR2 in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) have not been systematically and comprehensively studied. The aim of this study was to explore the role of MTMR2 in HCC. We obtained the raw data from Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) databases. Afterward, we analyzed the data using R and cBioPortal. We investigated the connection between MTMR2 and its expression, prognosis, clinical significance, methylation, genetic alterations, tumor microenvironment (TME), tumor mutation burden (TMB), and drug reactivity in HCC patients. MTMR2 expression levels in HCC cells were validated through western blotting and RT-qPCR. MTMR2 exhibits high levels of expression across a wide range of cancer types, including HCC. MTMR2 is diagnostically valuable in detecting HCC, with its up-regulated expression often being indicative of poor prognosis among HCC patients. The in vitro experiments confirmed elevated MTMR2 expression in HepG2, HUH-7, and MHCC-97H cells. Univariate and multivariate Cox analysis demonstrated that MTMR2 was an independent prognostic factor in HCC patients. The cg20195272 site has the highest degree of methylation in MTMR2, and it is positively correlated with MTMR2 expression. Patients with high levels of methylation at the cg20195272 site show poor prognosis. Analysis of the TME indicates that high expression of MTMR2 is associated with elevated ESTIMATE score and that MTMR2 expression correlates positively with infiltration by resting memory CD4 T cells, activated dendritic cells, as well as several immune checkpoints. There is a negative correlation between MTMR2 expression and TMB, and drug sensitivity analyses have shown that higher MTMR2 expression is associated with lower IC50 values. This study indicates that increased expression of MTMR2 may play a crucial role in the occurrence, progression, diagnosis, prognostic prediction and drug therapy of HCC.© 2023. The Author(s).
Exosomes are secreted to the extracellular milieu when multivesicular endosomes (MVEs) dock and fuse with the plasma membrane. However, MVEs are also known to fuse with lysosomes for degradation. How MVEs are directed to the plasma membrane for exosome secretion rather than to lysosomes is unclear. Here we report that a conversion of phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate (PI(3)P) to phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate (PI(4)P) catalyzed sequentially by Myotubularin 1 (MTM1) and phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase type IIα (PI4KIIα) on the surface of MVEs mediates the recruitment of the exocyst complex. The exocyst then targets the MVEs to the plasma membrane for exosome secretion. We further demonstrate that disrupting PI(4)P generation or exocyst function blocked exosomal secretion of Programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1), a key immune checkpoint protein in tumor cells, and led to its accumulation in lysosomes. Together, our study suggests that the PI(3)P to PI(4)P conversion on MVEs and the recruitment of the exocyst direct the exocytic trafficking of MVEs for exosome secretion.© 2023. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 37848047 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 36973888 is a review article
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is typically characterized by chronic airway inflammation and emphysema. Macrophage polarization plays an important role in COPD, while the precise molecules and mechanisms underpinning it have yet to be fully elucidated. Pulmonary decrease of myotubularin-related protein 14 (MTMR14) expression conduces to the progression of COPD in our prior publication, while the further analysis reveals the differential expression of MTMR14 in alveolar macrophages, whose function and related mechanisms are worth further research. Our study aims to investigate the role and mechanism of MTMR14 in macrophages of COPD.The expression and potential role of MTMR14 in COPD macrophages was explored via bioinformatic analysis and clinical detection, as well as in vivo and vitro experiments. By constructing animal model with Mtmr14 knockout and cell model with the knockdown or over-expression of MTMR14, the effect of MTMR14 on polarization direction of macrophages and the related signaling pathways were elaborated. Indirect co-culture was performed to probe the influence of MTMR14 in the crosstalk between macrophages and alveolar epithelium. The regulation of ubiquitin-proteasome system on MTMR14 expression was investigated via (co-)immunoprecipitation and cycloheximide chase assay.Based on analysis from open-access single-cell sequencing data, MTMR14 was down-regulated in macrophages of COPD patients, which was confirmed in clinical specimens, animal and cell models. Meanwhile, MTMR14 was functionally enriched in inflammatory response and macrophage activation. Correspondingly, the knockout of MTMR14 aggravated the pulmonary function decline, emphysema, inflammation and pro-inflammatory macrophage polarization in mice exposed by cigarette smoke (CS). Mechanically, MTMR14 negatively regulated the M1 polarization of macrophages under CS extract (CSE)-stimulation through PI3K/Akt and NF-κB pathways. In addition, damage from macrophages on alveolar epithelium was intensified by the down-regulation of MTMR14 in the formation of emphysema. Finally, TRIM21 was found to down-regulate MTMR14 through ubiquitin-proteasome system in CSE-stimulated macrophages.Our findings underscore the mitigative role of MTMR14 on macrophage polarization towards pro-inflammatory phenotype, offering a promising target for prevention and intervention for COPD in clinical settings.Not applicable.© 2025. The Author(s).
Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) at microRNA (miRNA)--binding sites influence the development of ischemic stroke (IS) by affecting the expression of specific target genes. Myotubularin-related protein 3 (MTMR3), which is involved in autophagy, is directly targeted by miR-181a. This research examined the potential association between the SNP rs12537 in the miRNA-181a binding location within the 3' untranslated region (3'-UTR) of MTMR3 and the incidence and prognosis of IS.An improved multitemperature ligase detection reaction assay was used to perform genotyping analysis in two independent case-control datasets consisting of 1128 subjects with IS and 1140 healthy controls with matched ages.The distribution frequencies of the T allele (p = 5.2×10-4) of SNP rs12537 in MTMR3 were elevated significantly in IS patients as compared to healthy controls. Further categorization based on IS subtypes revealed that individuals carrying the variation T allele were linked with a higher risk of suffering large-artery (p = 1.2×10-3) and small-artery (p = 7.0×10-4) atherosclerotic stroke subtypes. The T allele of rs12537 was shown to be linked to both moderate and severe stroke (NIHSS ≥ 6) (p = 0.011), as well as a poor short-term outcome (p = 0.016) of IS. A significant correlation was also found between the rs12537 T allele mutation and a decrease in MTMR3 (p = 0.019), as well as an elevated miR-181a (p = 0.021) and LC3B (p = 0.026) in individuals with IS.This study identified a novel role for the rs12537 variant in influencing IS susceptibility and prognosis, potentially by modulating MTMR3 expression and leading to increased autophagy.© 2025 Chen et al.
The global incidence of gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) continues to rise and is associated with negative outcomes in pregnancy. This study aims to investigate how the miR-99 family of exosomes derived from the placenta targets myotubularin-related protein 3 (MTMR3) to trigger autophagy and alter insulin resistance (IR) in trophoblast cells. In this study, placenta-derived exosomes from plasma samples of patients with GDM and normal pregnant women were isolated to evaluate the expression levels of miR-99 family members (miR-99a, miR-99b, and miR-100) by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Furthermore, we used Targeted Scan prediction and dual luciferase reporter assays to identify a potential target of the miR-99 family. Finally, Western blotting, CCK8 assay, and glucose level measurement were used to confirm that the miR-99 family regulates autophagy in trophoblast cells through targeting potential targets, thereby affecting IR. Through comprehensive molecular biology techniques, our analysis revealed that, in contrast to normal pregnant women, the placenta-derived exosomes of women with GDM exhibited a significant downregulation of the miR-99 family. Moreover, MTMR3 emerged as a potential target of the miR-99 family, revealing a negative correlation with the levels of miR-99. An increase in MTMR3 expression impaired cellular autophagy and contributed to IR. Conversely, augmenting the miR-99 family can lead to a downregulation of MTMR3, promotion of cellular autophagy, and mitigation of IR. This research demonstrated that the expression of the miR-99 family was reduced in plasma exosomes of GDM. The miR-99 family can directly target MTMR3, leading to its downregulation. This process activated autophagy in trophoblast cells and enhances insulin sensitivity. Consequently, the miR-99 family holds potential as a therapeutic strategy for patients with GDM.Copyright © 2025 Journal of Physiological Investigation.
The location of a patient's colorectal cancer (CRC) influences their outcome but inherited factors may also be involved. We studied 1899 patients with advanced CRC (514 had proximal colonic, 493 distal colonic and 892 rectal tumours) and carried out genome-wide association studies for survival. Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) suggestive of association (P < 1.0 × 10-5) were tested for replication in 5078 CRC patients from the UK Biobank. We investigated the relationship between Phosphatidylinositol 4-Kinase Type 2 Beta (PI4K2B) expression in colorectal tumours and survival in 597 patients from The Human Protein Atlas (THPA). We also analysed 3 SNPs previously associated with survival by anatomical site. We found that SNPs at 54 independent loci were suggestive of an association with survival when stratified by tumour location. rs76011559 replicated in patients with proximal tumours (COIN, COIN-B and UK Biobank combined Hazard Ratio [HR] = 1.53, 95% Confidence Intervals [CI] = 1.19-1.86, P = 7.5 × 10-7) and rs12273047 replicated in patients with rectal tumours (combined HR = 1.27, 95% CI = 1.09-1.46, P = 4.1 × 10-7). In gene analyses, PI4K2B associated with survival in patients with distal cancers (P = 2.1 × 10-6) and increased PI4K2B expression in colorectal tumours was associated with improved survival (P = 9.6 × 10-5). No previously associated SNPs were replicated. Our data identify novel loci associated with survival when stratified by tumour location.© 2025. The Author(s).
Inositol Polyphosphate-5-Phosphatase J (INPP5J), a 5-phosphatase, has been identified as a tumor suppressor in several types of cancer. However, its role in pancreatic cancer (PC) is unknown. We found that the INPP5J expression was markedly lower in PC tissues (n = 50) compared to paired adjacent non-tumor tissues, and the lower INPP5J expression was relevant to a worse prognosis of PC patients. We thus proposed that INPP5J might inhibit PC progression and conducted gain-of- and loss-of-function experiments to test our hypothesis. Our results showed that overexpression of INPP5J inhibited cell proliferation, invasion, migration, and xenografted tumor of PC cells. INPP5J silencing showed the opposite effect. Pellino E3 Ubiquitin Protein Ligase 1 (PELI1) is one of the ubiquitin ligases known to promote ubiquitination of its downstream targets. We found that PELI1 could interact with INPP5J and promote the ubiquitination and degradation of INPP5J. PELI1 overexpression enhanced malignant behaviors of PC cells. However, INPP5J overexpression restored the alterations caused by PELI1 overexpression. In conclusion, the results suggest that the decreased INPP5J expression, caused by PELI1 through ubiquitination, may promote PC progression. The PELI1-INPP5J axis represents a potential therapeutic targetable node for PC.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Highly upregulated in liver cancer (HULC) is one of the LncRNAs that was documented to enhance cancer progression, and its downregulation is associated with cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. Myotubularin-related protein 3 (MTMR3) is required for autophagy, and many studies consider MTMR3 to be a negative regulator of autophagy processes. However, nothing is understood about how they regulate breast cancer.This case-control study included 245 patients (Group A: 85 early BC Group B: 40 metastatic BC cases, Group C: 40 fibroadenoma cases; and Group D: 80 age matched healthy control subjects. TaqMan Real-time PCR was used to analyse rs7158663 and rs12537. MTMR3 and HULC gene expression levels were measured using RT-PCR.Breast cancer patients exhibited elevated serum MTMR3 and HULC compared to fibroadenomas and control cases. The MTMR3 rs12537 "T/T" genotype was highly expressed in cases of breast cancer (early and metastatic) compared to controls (risk genotype). On the other hand, the HULC rs7158663 genotypes were not statistically associated with breast cancer. However, when compared to the control, the C/C genotype of the HULC gene is higher in the case.MTMR3 gene expression was higher in the T/T genotype compared to both the C/C and C/T genotypes, while HULC gene expression was lower in the A/C genotype compared to both the A/A and C/C genotypes. Positive correlation between MTMR3 and HULC. MTMR3 and ALT, as well as HULC and alkaline phosphatase, both showed a statistically significant positive correlation.Our findings reveal that MTMR3 and HULC serum expression and their SNPs (HULC rs7763881, MTMR3 rs12537) are associated with a higher risk for the development of breast cancer in the Egyptian population.© 2023. The Author(s).
Although PIKFYVE phosphoinositide kinase inhibitors can selectively eliminate PIKFYVE-dependent human cancer cells in vitro and in vivo, the basis for this selectivity has remained elusive. Here we show that the sensitivity of cells to the PIKFYVE inhibitor WX8 is not linked to PIKFYVE expression, macroautophagic/autophagic flux, the BRAFV600E mutation, or ambiguous inhibitor specificity. PIKFYVE dependence results from a deficiency in the PIP5K1C phosphoinositide kinase, an enzyme required for conversion of phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate (PtdIns4P) into phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate (PtdIns[4,5]P2/PIP2), a phosphoinositide associated with lysosome homeostasis, endosome trafficking, and autophagy. PtdIns(4,5)P2 is produced via two independent pathways. One requires PIP5K1C; the other requires PIKFYVE and PIP4K2C to convert PtdIns3P into PtdIns(4,5)P2. In PIKFYVE-dependent cells, low concentrations of WX8 specifically inhibit PIKFYVE in situ, thereby increasing the level of its substrate PtdIns3P while suppressing PtdIns(4,5)P2 synthesis and inhibiting lysosome function and cell proliferation. At higher concentrations, WX8 inhibits both PIKFYVE and PIP4K2C in situ, which amplifies these effects to further disrupt autophagy and induce cell death. WX8 did not alter PtdIns4P levels. Consequently, inhibition of PIP5K1C in WX8-resistant cells transformed them into sensitive cells, and overexpression of PIP5K1C in WX8-sensitive cells increased their resistance to WX8. This discovery suggests that PIKFYVE-dependent cancers could be identified clinically by low levels of PIP5K1C and treated with PIKFYVE inhibitors.Abbreviations: DMSO: dimethylsulfoxide; ELISA: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; LC3-I: microtubule associated protein light chain 3-I; LC3-II: microtubule associated protein light chain 3-II; MS: mass spectrometry; PtdIns: phosphatidylinositol; PtdIns3P: PtdIns-3-phosphate; PtdIns4P: PtdIns-4-phosphate; PtdIns5P: PtdIns-5-phosphate; PtdIns(3,5)P2: PtdIns-3,5-bisphosphate; PtdIns(4,5)P2/PIP2: PtdIns-4,5-bisphosphate; PtdIns(3,4,5)P3/PIP3: PtdIns-3,4,5-trisphosphate; PIKFYVE: phosphoinositide kinase, FYVE-type zinc finger containing; PIK3C3: phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase catalytic subunit type 3; PI4KA: phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase alpha; PI4KB: phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase beta; PI4K2A: phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase type 2 alpha; PI4K2B: phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase type 2 beta; PIP4K2A: phosphatidylinositol-5-phosphate 4-kinase type 2 alpha; PIP4K2B: phosphatidylinositol-5-phosphate 4-kinase type 2 beta; PIP4K2C: phosphatidylinositol-5-phosphate 4-kinase type 2 gamma; PIP5K1A: phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate 5-kinase type 1 alpha; PIP5K1B: phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate 5-kinase type 1 beta; PIP5K1C: phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate 5-kinase type 1 gamma; WX8: 1H-indole-3-carbaldehyde (4-anilino-6-[4-morpholinyl]-1,3,5-triazin-2-yl)hydrazone.
Background Restenosis is one of the main bottlenecks in restricting the further development of cardiovascular interventional therapy. New signaling molecules involved in the progress have continuously been discovered; however, the specific molecular mechanisms remain unclear. MTMR14 (myotubularin-related protein 14) is a novel phosphoinositide phosphatase that has a variety of biological functions and is involved in diverse biological processes. However, the role of MTMR14 in vascular biology remains unclear. Herein, we addressed the role of MTMR14 in neointima formation and vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) proliferation after vessel injury. Methods and Results Vessel injury models were established using SMC-specific conditional MTMR14-knockout and -transgenic mice. Neointima formation was assessed by histopathological methods, and VSMC proliferation and migration were assessed using fluorescence ubiquitination-based cell cycle indicator, transwell, and scratch wound assay. Neointima formation and the expression of MTMR14 was increased after injury. MTMR14 deficiency accelerated neointima formation and promoted VSMC proliferation after injury, whereas MTMR14 overexpression remarkably attenuated this process. Mechanistically, we demonstrated that MTMR14 suppressed the activation of PLK1 (polo-like kinase 1) by interacting with it, which further leads to the inhibition of the activation of MEK/ERK/AKT (mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase/extracellular-signal-regulated kinase/protein kinase B), thereby inhibiting the proliferation of VSMC from the medial to the intima and thus preventing neointima formation. Conclusions MTMR14 prevents neointima formation and VSMC proliferation by inhibiting PLK1. Our findings reveal that MTMR14 serves as an inhibitor of VSMC proliferation and establish a link between MTMR14 and PLK1 in regulating VSMC proliferation. MTMR14 may become a novel potential therapeutic target in the treatment of restenosis.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41888907 is a review article
Sepsis-associated neuroinflammation contributes to long-term neurological deficits, but therapeutic strategies remain limited. Here, we demonstrate that minocycline (Mino) mitigates sepsis-induced neuroinjury by upregulating inositol polyphosphate-5-phosphatase D (INPP5D), thereby suppressing microglia-mediated central amygdala (CeA) neuronal hyperactivation. In a cecal ligation and puncture (CLP)-induced septic mouse model, Mino treatment improved behavioral deficits and reduced neuroinflammation. Multi-omics analyses identified INPP5D as a critical downstream effector of Mino's neuroprotection. In vitro, Mino enhanced INPP5D expression in microglia, concurrently inhibiting pro-inflammatory activation, promoting autophagy, restoring mitochondrial function, and augmenting antioxidant responses. Microglia-neuron co-culture experiments revealed that Mino-dependent INPP5D upregulation attenuated CeA neuronal hyperexcitability and dendritic spine loss. Crucially, in vivo silencing of INPP5D or autophagy blockade abolished Mino's protective effects, confirming the INPP5D-autophagy axis as indispensable for neuroprotection. Our findings unveil a novel mechanism whereby Mino rescues sepsis-induced neuroinjury via INPP5D-mediated modulation of microglial activation and CeA neuronal dysfunction, offering a promising therapeutic target for sepsis-associated encephalopathy.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study characterized phenotypic distinctions between high- and low-motility sperm from 40-week-old Yufen1 roosters and the alteration in epididymal transcriptional networks underlighting sperm motility. Temperature challenge tests (4 °C and 37 °C) revealed that high-viability sperm maintained significantly better survival rates at both temperatures compared to low-viability samples, and high-motility sperm consistently exhibited lower morphological abnormality rates across temperature conditions (P < 0.05), which was further confirmed by extended fertilization windows (P < 0.05) and produced more fertilized eggs (P < 0.05) compared to the low-motility group. Transcriptomic analysis of the epididymis showed 723 differentially expressed genes between the low- and high- motility groups, with functional enrichment indicating significant alterations in lipid metabolism pathways and ATP synthesis-related processes. Accordingly, genes related to fat deposition such as acyl-CoA synthetase bubblegum family member 1 (ACSBG1), glycerate kinase (GLYCTK), and CDP-diacylglycerol synthase 1 (CDS1) were downregulated (all P < 0.05), whereas the mRNA level of β-oxidation gene acyl-coenzyme A thioesterase 6 (ACOT6) was increased (P < 0.05) in the high motility group as compared to the low motility group. In addition, when compared to the low motility group, the high motility semen exhibited decreased levels of both reactive oxygen species (ROS) and malondialdehyde in seminal plasma (both P < 0.05). In conclusion, the maintenance of sperm motility is associated with lipid metabolism remodeling, where these metabolic adaptations enhance ATP production while simultaneously reducing ROS generation in Yufen1 roosters.
Metastatic uveal melanoma is an aggressive disease with limited effective therapeutic options. To comprehensively map monogenic and digenic dependencies, we performed CRISPR-Cas9 screening in ten extensively profiled human uveal melanoma cell line models. Analysis involved genome-wide single-gene and combinatorial paired-gene CRISPR libraries. Among our 76 uveal melanoma-specific essential genes and 105 synthetic lethal gene pairs, we identified and validated the CDP-diacylglycerol synthase 2 gene (CDS2) as a genetic dependency in the context of low CDP-diacylglycerol synthase 1 gene (CDS1) expression. We further demonstrate that CDS1/CDS2 forms a synthetic lethal interaction in vivo and reveal that CDS2 knockout results in the disruption of phosphoinositide synthesis and increased cellular apoptosis and that re-expression of CDS1 rescues this cell fitness defect. We extend our analysis using pan-cancer data, confirming increased CDS2 essentiality in diverse tumor types with low CDS1 expression. Thus, the CDS1/CDS2 axis is a therapeutic target across a range of cancers.© 2025. The Author(s).
The accumulation of lipid droplets (LDs) enhancing nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) cell migration. We reveals that CDP-diacylglycerol synthase 1 (CDS1), an inhibitor of LDs formation, is significantly downregulated in NPC. Restoring CDS1 expression suppresses NPC cell growth, colony formation, tumorigenesis, migration, and invasion. The anti-cancer effect of CDS1 is attributed to its role in decreasing the intracellular LDs. Moreover, CDS1 promotes activation of the NF-κB signaling pathway, resulting in elevated levels of inflammatory cytokines within NPC cells. This is likely to enhance the immunogenicity of these cells, thereby reducing tumor volume in the in vivo model. These findings establish CDS1 as a novel suppressor of NPC by modulating LDs levels, suggesting potential therapeutic avenues aimed at limiting LDs accumulation.
Ipilimumab (IPI) improved outcomes for patients with high-risk melanoma compared with IFN-α2b in E1609, a phase III adjuvant trial. We hypothesized that combining candidate immune biomarkers in both tumor and circulating blood could generate a superior predictive biomarker signature.We conducted gene expression profiling on baseline tumors of patients treated with IPI and IFN. We also performed multicolor flow cytometry to compare cellular marker expression on thawed peripheral blood mononuclear cells and Luminex multiplex assay to measure serum biomarkers. We tested the expression levels of 31 genes and 40 circulating biomarkers in relation to survival outcomes. We then developed two separate multivariate Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO) Cox regression models followed by integrative modeling of risk prediction using the prioritized biomarkers.In blood, enriched populations of CXCR3+CD4+ T cells, CXCR3+CD8+ T cells, CTLA4+IFN-γ+CD8+ T cells, and higher levels of CCL3 and CXCL11 were associated with significantly improved overall survival and relapse-free survival, whereas high levels of CTLA4+ regulatory T cells (CD3+CD4+CD25hi+CD152+) and monocytic myeloid-derived suppressor cells (Lin-CD33+HLA-DrloCD14+CD15+) correlated with worse overall survival and relapse-free survival. In tumor, CXCL9, CD8A, CXCL10, and inositol polyphosphate-5-phosphatase D were identified as tier-1 (P < 0.05) and indoleamine 2, 3-dioxygenase 1, Igκ constant, and IL2RB as tier-2 (P < 0.1) biomarkers of survival. Multivariate survival analysis identified that ∼50% of the risk groups were defined by circulating and tumor biomarker models, indicating complementary features of defining risk groups in IPI-treated but not in IFN-treated patients.Integrating candidate blood and tumor immune-related biomarkers generated a baseline signature that maximizes the prediction of immunotherapeutic benefits in reference to the compartmental biomarker signatures.©2025 American Association for Cancer Research.
The gene inositol polyphosphate-5-phosphatase D (INPP5D), which encodes the lipid phosphatase SH2-containing inositol polyphosphate 5-phosphatase 1 (SHIP1), is associated with the risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD). How it influences microglial function and brain physiology is unclear. Here, we showed that SHIP1 was enriched in early stages of healthy brain development. By combining in vivo loss-of-function approaches and proteomics, we discovered that mice conditionally lacking microglial SHIP1 displayed increased complement and synapse loss in the early postnatal brain. SHIP1-deficient microglia showed altered transcriptional signatures and abnormal synaptic pruning that was dependent on the complement system. Mice exhibited cognitive defects in adulthood only when microglial SHIP1 was depleted early postnatally but not at later stages. Induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived microglia lacking SHIP1 also showed increased engulfment of synaptic structures. These findings suggest that SHIP1 is essential for proper microglia-mediated synapse remodeling in the healthy developing brain. Disrupting this process has lasting behavioral effects and may be linked to vulnerability to neurodegeneration.Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
B cells are adaptive immune cells in the tumor microenvironment and play an important role in tumor development and metastasis. However, the roles of genetic variants of the immunity B cell-related genes in the survival of patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) remain unknown. In the present study, we first evaluated associations between 10,776 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in 220 immunity B cell-related genes and survival of NSCLC in a discovery dataset of 1,185 patients from the Prostate, Lung, Colorectal and Ovarian (PLCO) Cancer Screening Trial. We found that 369 SNPs were significantly associated with overall survival (OS) of NSCLC in multivariable Cox proportional hazards regression analysis (P ≤ 0.05, Bayesian false discovery probability ≤ 0.80), of which 18 SNPs were validated in another independent genotyping dataset of 984 patients from the Harvard Lung Cancer Susceptibility (HLCS) Study. We then performed linkage disequilibrium (LD) analysis, followed by stepwise analysis with a multivariable Cox regression model. Finally, two independent SNPs, inositol polyphosphate-5-phosphatase D (INPP5D) rs13385922 C>T and exosome component 3 (EXOSC3) rs3208406 A>G, remained significantly associated withNSCLC OS with a combined hazards ratio (HR) of 1.14 (95% confidence interval = 1.06-1.23, P = 2.41×10-4) and 1.20 (95% confidence interval = 1.14-1.28, P = 3.41×10-9), respectively. Furthermore, NSCLC patients with the combination of unfavorable genotypes for these two SNPs were associated with a poor OS (P trend = 0.0002) and disease-specific survival (DSS, P trend < 0.0001) in the PLCO dataset. Expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) analysis suggested that the INPP5D rs6782875 T allele was significantly correlated with elevated INPP5D mRNA expression levels in normal lung tissues and whole blood samples, while the EXOSC3 rs3208406 G allele was significantly correlated with increased EXOSC3 mRNA expression levels in normal lung tissues. Our data indicated that genetic variants in these immunity B cell-related genes may predict NSCLC survival possibly by influencing the gene expression.Copyright © 2024 Lu, Liu, Wang, Tang, Luo, Du, Christiani and Wei.
Objective: To analyze the differential genes and related signaling pathways of microglia subpopulations in Parkinson's disease (PD) -like mouse brains induced by paraquat (PQ) based on single-cell RNA sequencing, and provide clues to elucidate the mechanism of PQ-induced PD-like changes in the brain of animals. Methods: In September 2021, six male 6-week-old C57BL/6 mice were randomly divided into control group and experimental group (three mice in each group) . The mice were injected with saline, 10.0 mg/kg PQ intraperitoneally, once every three days, and 10 consecutive injections were used for modeling. After infection, the brains of mice were taken and 10×Genomics single-cell RNA sequencing was performed. Microglia subpopulations were screened based on gene expression characteristics, and Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analyses were performed. The differential genes of microglia subpopulations between the experimental group and control group were further screened, and functional enrichment analysis was performed using bioinformatics tools. Mouse microglia (BV2 cells) were treated with 0, 60, 90 μmol/L PQ solution, respectively. And real-time fluorescence quantitative PCR experiments were conducted to validate the expressions of differential genes hexokinase 2 (Hk2) , ATPase H+ Transporting V0 Subunit B (Atp6v0b) and Neuregulin 1 (Nrg1) . Results: Cluster 7 and Cluster 20 were identified as microglia subpopulations based on the signature genes inositol polyphosphate-5-phosphatase d, Inpp5d (Inpp5d) and transforming growth factor beta receptor 1 (Tgfbr1) , and they reflected the microglia-activated M2 phenotype. The bioinformatics analysis showed that the characteristic genes of identified microglia subpopulations were enriched in endocytosis. In terms of molecular function, it mainly enriched in transmembrane receptor protein kinase activity and cytokine binding. The up-regulated genes of Cluster 7 were mainly enriched in lysosomal pathway, endocytosis pathway, and down-regulated genes were mainly enriched in neurodegenerative disease and other signaling pathways. The up-regulated genes of Cluster 20 were mainly enriched in signaling pathways related to PD, and down-regulated genes were mainly enriched in cyclic adenosine 3', 5'-monophosphate (cAMP) signaling pathways, neurological development, synaptic function and other signaling pathways. The results of real-time fluorescence quantitative PCR showed that the expressions of Hk2 mRNA and Atp6v0b mRNA increased and the expression of Nrg1 mRNA decreased in the 90 μmol/L PQ-treated BV2 cells compared with the 0 μmol/L, and the differences were statistically significant (P<0.05) . Conclusion: Microglia are activated in the PQ-induced PD-like mouse model and polarized toward the M2 phenotype. And their functions are associated with lysosomal (endocytosis) , synaptic functions and the regulation of PD-related pathways.
Microglia and neuroinflammation play an important role in the development and progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Inositol polyphosphate-5-phosphatase D (INPP5D/SHIP1) is a myeloid-expressed gene genetically-associated with AD. Through unbiased analyses of RNA and protein profiles in INPP5D-disrupted iPSC-derived human microglia, we find that reduction in INPP5D activity is associated with molecular profiles consistent with disrupted autophagy and inflammasome activation. These findings are validated through targeted pharmacological experiments which demonstrate that reduced INPP5D activity induces the formation of the NLRP3 inflammasome, cleavage of CASP1, and secretion of IL-1β and IL-18. Further, in-depth analyses of human brain tissue across hundreds of individuals using a multi-analytic approach provides evidence that a reduction in function of INPP5D in microglia results in inflammasome activation in AD. These findings provide insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying microglia-mediated processes in AD and highlight the inflammasome as a potential therapeutic target for modulating INPP5D-mediated vulnerability to AD.© 2023. The Author(s).
Periodontitis is a chronic inflammatory disease characterized by progressive alveolar bone destruction. While lipid metabolism and neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) are implicated in periodontitis pathogenesis, their precise molecular mechanisms remain unclear and require further investigation.RNA sequencing datasets were acquired from public databases. Differential expression analysis identified differentially expressed genes in periodontitis tissues and those associated with NETs and lipid metabolism. Machine learning algorithms screened for key genes, and a nomogram assessed their diagnostic value. Comprehensive analyses included enrichment analysis, immune infiltration profiling, chemical-gene interaction prediction, and transcription factor regulatory network construction. Reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) validation was performed using clinical periodontitis and healthy gingival samples.ALOX5AP (arachidonate 5-lipoxygenase-activating protein) and INPP4A (inositol polyphosphate-4-phosphatase type I A) were identified as key biomarkers showing significant correlation. These genes demonstrated co-enrichment in 129 pathways including endoplasmic reticulum protein processing. Immune infiltration analysis revealed ALOX5AP exhibited strongest positive correlation with plasma cells, while INPP4A showed strongest negative correlation. Three target transcription factors were predicted and a miRNA-mRNA-lncRNA network was constructed. Twenty compounds predicted to interact with these biomarkers were identified for periodontitis treatment. RT-qPCR validation confirmed significant upregulation of both ALOX5AP and INPP4A in periodontitis tissues, consistent with bioinformatics findings.This study identifies ALOX5AP and INPP4A as potential periodontitis biomarkers and reveals their predicted association with lipid metabolism and NETs-related pathways, providing insights into the molecular mechanisms that may underlie periodontitis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The release of cytochrome c, somatic (CYCS) from mitochondria to the cytosol is an established trigger of caspase-dependent apoptosis. Here, we unveil an unexpected role for cytosolic CYCS in inhibiting ferroptosis-a form of oxidative cell death driven by uncontrolled lipid peroxidation. Mass spectrometry and site-directed mutagenesis revealed the existence of a cytosolic complex composed of inositol polyphosphate-4-phosphatase type I A (INPP4A) and CYCS. This CYCS-INPP4A complex is distinct from the CYCS-apoptotic peptidase activating factor 1 (APAF1)-caspase-9 apoptosome formed during mitochondrial apoptosis. CYCS boosts INPP4A activity, leading to increased formation of phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate, which prevents phospholipid peroxidation and plasma membrane rupture, thus averting ferroptotic cell death. Unbiased screening led to the identification of the small-molecule compound 10A3, which disrupts the CYCS-INPP4A interaction. 10A3 sensitized cultured cells and tumors implanted in immunocompetent mice to ferroptosis. Collectively, these findings redefine our understanding of cytosolic CYCS complexes that govern diverse cell death pathways.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
INPP4A has been shown to be involved in the regulation of cell proliferation and apoptosis of multiple cell types including fibroblasts. Previous reports from our group have demonstrated the role of inositol polyphosphate 4-phosphatase Type I A (INPP4A) in these functions. Though existing evidences suggest a critical role for INPP4A in the maintenance of lung homeostasis, its role in chronic lung diseases is relatively under explored. In the current study, we made an attempt to understand the regulation of INPP4A in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). Through integration of relevant INPP4A gene expression data from public repositories with our results from in vitro experiments and mouse models, we show that INPP4A is altered in IPF. Interestingly, the direction of the change is dependent both on the disease stage and the region of the lung used. INPP4A was found to be upregulated when analyzed in lung sample representative of the whole lung, but was downregulated in the fibrotic regions of the lung. Similarly, INPP4A was found to be high, compared to controls, only in the early stage of the disease. Though the observed increase in INPP4A was found to be negatively correlated to physiological indices, FVC, and DLCO, of lung function, treatment with anti-INPP4A antibody worsened the condition in bleomycin treated mice. These contrasting results taken together are suggestive of a nuanced regulation of INPP4A in IPF which is dependent on the disease stage, cellular state and extent of fibrosis in the lung region being analyzed.© 2024 The Authors. Physiological Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The Physiological Society and the American Physiological Society.
Methotrexate (MTX) is the primary drug used in the treatment of pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). However, some patients exhibit delayed clearance of high-dose (HD) MTX, which induces severe nephrotoxicity, mucositis, hepatotoxicity, and neurotoxicity. We sought to identify relevant variants associated with delayed clearance of HD-MTX in pediatric patients with ALL.Whole-exome sequencing of germline DNA was performed in 51 Korean pediatric patients with ALL. A total of 341 HD-MTX infusion data points from 51 patients were analyzed. MTX levels and laboratory measurements reflecting toxicity outcomes were obtained. Correlations between peak serum MTX levels at 24 h and toxicity outcomes were assessed. Analyses were performed to identify variants affecting delayed MTX clearance.The 24 h MTX level strongly correlated with the subsequent creatinine (Cr) level. Moreover, rs2229866 in contactin 2 (CNTN2), rs200687372 in myotubularin Related Protein 9 (MTMR9), rs777260512 in polymerase iota (POLI), rs16954698 in polycystic kidney disease 1-like 2 (PKD1L2), rs117765468 in NSE1 Homolog, SMC5-SMC6 Complex Component (NSMCE1), and rs1800956 in endoglin (ENG) were identified as candidate variants associated with delayed MTX clearance. In particular, ENG rs1800956 was significantly associated with delayed MTX clearance in all analyses and PKD1L2 rs16954698 was replicated in an external dataset (phs000637.v1.p1) from the Database of Genotypes and Phenotypes (dbGaP).This is the first whole-exome sequencing-based analysis of delayed MTX clearance in pediatric patients with ALL. ENG rs1800956 and PKD1L2 rs16954698 were found to be potentially influential variants associated with delayed MTX clearance. These findings provide insights into HD-MTX-induced nephrotoxicity and may contribute to reducing adverse reactions through treatment modification.Copyright © 2024 Choi, Kwon, Kim, Hong, Ma, Koh, Yun, Yoo, Song, Im, Kim and Kang.
The phosphoinositides are a family of phospholipids produced by the action of phosphatidylinositol phosphate kinases (PIPKs) that perform sequential phosphorylation of inositol. One of these lipid kinases, phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate 5-kinase type 1 α (PIP5K1α) generates phosphatidylinositol (4,5) bisphosphate (PI(4,5)P2), important in cell signaling. PIP5K1α is implicated in cancer progression and therefore necessitates the discovery of its potent inhibitors. Screening of protein kinase inhibitors from BindingDB was performed for the human PIP5K1α (hPIP5K1α) AlphaFold model to gain insights into important structural features. ATP binding site was used for screening of protein kinase inhibitors. ISA-2011B, a specific inhibitor against hPIP5K1α was used as reference molecule. The hit molecules were analysed for their binding affinity, drug-likeness, carcinogenicity and stability through molecular docking, SwissADME, CarcinoPred-EL, and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations studies. Four protein kinase inhibitors, R547, GDC-0879, JNJ-7706621 and ABT-869 were found to bind hPIP5K1α via a stable complex formation. Lys194 in the N-terminal lobe, two hinge region residues Asn245 and Leu247, and Asp404 that precedes the activation loop in the C-terminal lobe make hydrogen bonding interactions with hit molecules. Major fluctuations are seen in the activation loop and two insertion regions in the C-terminal lobe. ISA-2011B and hit molecules; R547 and GDC-0879 display lower overall structural motion from PCA studies indicating stability of the conformational states during MD simulations. The hit molecules display favorable ADME properties and are predicted to be non-carcinogenic. The hit molecules in particular R547, have better binding free energies compared to reference molecule, ISA-2011B.
Alterations in extracellular matrix (ECM) architecture and stiffness are hallmarks of aggressive pancreatic cancer progression. However, the mechanisms by which ECM biomechanical properties regulate malignant biological behavior remain unknown. Here, we reveal that calmodulin-dependent protein kinase doublecortin-like kinase 1 (DCLK1) integrates biomechanical signaling and promotes pancreatic cancer cell progression. DCLK1 expression and activation are selectively induced under conditions of high biomechanical stress mediated through the piezo-type mechanosensitive ion channel component 1 (PIEZO1)/calcium/hippocalcin-like protein 1 (HPCAL1) pathway. Consistently, in solid tumor experiments, DCLK1 overexpression under low stiffness conditions facilitates rapid tumor progression and chemoresistance, whereas using calcium inhibitors can partially reverse the adverse effects of DCLK1 overexpression. Conversely, under high stiffness conditions, DCLK1 knockdown inhibits tumor growth and enhances chemosensitivity but attenuates the sensitizing effect of combined calcium inhibitor treatment on chemotherapy efficacy. Mechanistically, DCLK1 interacts with phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate 5-kinase type 1 alpha (PIP5K1A) by inhibiting its threonine phosphorylation, thereby facilitating PIP5K1A membrane localization. This activates the downstream phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase-protein kinase B (PI3K-AKT) signaling pathway, promoting cancer cell proliferation and chemoresistance. Collectively, these findings establish DCLK1 functions as a context-specific amplifier, exacerbating aggressive tumor progression and chemotherapy resistance in pancreatic cancer. Targeting the calcium/DCLK1 signaling axis may therefore enhance the efficacy of adjuvant therapies in pancreatic cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
Phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate 5-kinase type 1 alpha (PIP5K1A) acts upstream of the Akt regulatory pathway and is abnormally expressed in many types of malignancies. However, the role and mechanism of PIP5K1A in colorectal cancer (CRC) have not yet been reported. In this study, we aimed to determine the association between PIP5K1A and progression of CRC and assess the efficacy and mechanism by which rupatadine targets PIP5K1A.Firstly, expression and function of PIP5K1A in CRC were investigated by human colon cancer tissue chip analysis and cell proliferation assay. Next, rupatadine was screened by computational screening and cytotoxicity assay and interactions between PIP5K1A and rupatadine assessed by kinase activity detection assay and bio-layer interferometry analysis. Next, rupatadine's anti-tumor effect was evaluated by in vivo and in vitro pharmacodynamic assays. Finally, rupatadine's anti-tumor mechanism was explored by quantitative real-time reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction, western blot, and immunofluorescence.We found that PIP5K1A exerts tumor-promoting effects as a proto-oncogene in CRC and aberrant PIP5K1A expression correlates with CRC malignancy. We also found that rupatadine down-regulates cyclin-dependent kinase 2 and cyclin D1 protein expression by inhibiting the PIP5K1A/Akt/GSK-3β pathway, induces cell cycle arrest, and inhibits CRC cell proliferation in vitro and in vivo.PIP5K1A is a potential drug target for treating CRC. Rupatadine, which targets PIP5K1A, could serve as a new option for treating CRC, its therapeutic mechanism being related to regulation of the Akt/GSK-3β signaling pathway.Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.
Chemoresistance limits the therapeutic effect of cisplatin (DDP) on non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Circular RNAs (circRNAs) function as important regulators in chemoresistance. This study aimed to explore the regulation of circRNA Phosphatidylinositol-4-Phosphate 5-Kinase Type 1 Alpha (circ_PIP5K1A) in DDP resistance.The expression analysis of circ_PIP5K1A, micoRNA-493-5p (miR-493-5p) and Rho Associated Coiled-Coil Containing Protein Kinase 1 (ROCK1) was conducted through reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR). Cell sensitivity was determined using 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-y1)-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay. Cell proliferation and cell viability were evaluated by colony formation assay and MTT assay, respectively. Cell cycle and apoptosis detection was performed via flow cytometry. Cell motility was examined by transwell migration or invasion assay. Dual-luciferase reporter assay was applied to confirm the target binding. ROCK1 protein level was assayed via Western blot. In vivo assay was carried out using xenograft model in mice.Circ_PIP5K1A level was abnormally increased in DDP-resistant NSCLC tissues and cells. Silencing circ_PIP5K1A reduced DDP resistance, proliferation, cell cycle progression and cell motility in DDP-resistant NSCLC cells. Circ_PIP5K1A directly interacted with miR-493-5p in NSCLC cells. The function of circ_PIP5K1A was dependent on the negative regulation of miR-493-5p. MiR-493-5p directly targeted ROCK1 and circ_PIP5K1A regulated the ROCK1 level via acting as a sponge of miR-493-5p. Overexpression of miR-493-5p inhibited chemoresistance and cancer progression by downregulating ROCK1 expression in DDP-resistant NSCLC cells. Circ_PIP5K1A regulated DDP sensitivity in vivo via the miR-493-5p/ROCK1 axis.These findings suggested that circ_PIP5K1A upregulated the ROCK1 expression to promote DDP resistance and cancer progression in NSCLC by sponging miR-493-5p.© 2021. The Author(s).
Circular RNAs (circRNAs) have been implicated to have important regulatory functions in chemical carcinogenesis via sponging microRNAs to regulate gene expression. Our study revealed a novel mechanism of circRNA in cadmium carcinogenesis through directly binding with protein. Here, we used cadmium-transformed human bronchial epithelial BEAS-2B cells to study the involvement and mechanism of circRNA in lung carcinogenesis caused by cadmium. By high-throughput sequencing, circSPAG16 was identified to be the most significantly downregulated circRNA in cadmium-transformed cells. CircSPAG16 was downregulated at Week 8, 12, 16, and 20 during cadmium-induced cell transformation. In addition, circSPAG16 overexpression prevented cadmium-induced transformation of BEAS-2B cells. Mechanistically, circSPAG16 inhibited the function of phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate 5-kinase type-1 α (PIP5K1α) by binding with it. We demonstrated that PIP5K1α acted as an oncogene to activate Akt and promoted cancer hallmarks including proliferation, migration, invasion, and anchorage-independent growth in cadmium-transformed cells. CircSPAG16 overexpression inactivates PIP5K1α/Akt signaling in the transformed cells. Furthermore, PIP5K1α overexpression significantly rescued the inhibitory effects of circSPAG16 overexpression on pAkt and cancer hallmarks in cadmium-transformed cells. Collectively, our results revealed that circSPAG16 could prevent cadmium-induced transformation through binding with PIP5K1α to inactivate Akt. These results provide a novel regulatory mechanism of circRNA into carcinogenesis induced by cadmium.© 2021 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 20301402
Circular RNAs (circRNAs) play vital roles in various types of cancer and chemosentivity. In the progression of carcinogenesis, exosomes are messengers for intercellular communication. The aim of this study was to explore the role of exosomal circRNA phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate 5-kinase type 1 alpha (circ_PIP5K1A) in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) progression and cisplatin sensitivity. The expression levels of circ_PIP5K1A, miR-101 and ATP binding cassette subfamily C member 1 (ABCC1) were detected by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction or western blot assay. Cell Counting Kit-8 assay was used to detect cell viability and 50% inhibitory concentration value of cisplatin. Cell migration, invasion, proliferation, and apoptosis were determined by wound healing assay, transwell assay, colony formation assay, and flow cytometry, respectively. A xenograft tumor model was established to explore the role of circ_PIP5K1A in vivo. Exosomes were detected using transmission electron microscopy analysis. The interaction between miR-101 and circ_PIP5K1A or ABCC1 was predicted by bioinformatics analysis and verified by dual-luciferase reporter assay and RNA pull-down assay. Circ_PIP5K1A and ABCC1 were overexpressed and miR-101 was downregulated in NSCLC tissues, serum samples, and cells. Knockdown of exosomal circ_PIP5K1A inhibited NSCLC cell proliferation, migration, and invasion and promoted apoptosis and cisplatin sensitivity. Likewise, circ_PIP5K1A downregulation inhibited tumor growth. MiR-101 was a direct target of circ_PIP5K1A, and its knockdown reversed the effects of circ_PIP5K1A silence on inhibition of NSCLC progression and promotion of cisplatin sensitivity. Moreover, ABCC1 was a downstream target of miR-101, and miR-101 overexpression inhibited the progression of NSCLC cells and increased cisplatin sensitivity by targeting ABCC1. Besides, circ_PIP5K1A positively regulated ABCC1 expression by sponging miR-101. Exosomal circ_PIP5K1A knockdown inhibited NSCLC progression and promoted cisplatin sensitivity by regulating miR-101/ABCC1 axis, providing a novel avenue for treatment of NSCLC.
Inositol polyphosphate 5-phosphatase K (INPP5K) is a phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5)-trisphosphate phosphatase that increases glucose uptake and regulates myogenesis in the skeletal muscle. To understand the mechanism of its species-specific inhibition, we determined the 1.9-Å resolution crystal structure of human INPP5K in complex with a selective inhibitor, CPD-1 (IC50 = 2.9 µM). The structure reveals that CPD-1 binds to a novel allosteric pocket, inducing a large conformational change in α-helix 3 that alters the active site and prevents substrate binding. This finding explains its unique, noncompetitive inhibitory mechanism. Crucially, while the inhibitor-binding residues are conserved, the key residue governing the allosteric transition is not conserved in mouse and rat INPP5K, which correlates with their insensitivity to CPD-1 (IC50 > 100 µM). Based on these structural insights, we identified the hamster as a pharmacologically relevant preclinical model (IC50 = 8.2 µM). These findings provide a structural basis for the rational design of next-generation INPP5K inhibitors and establish a suitable animal model for their evaluation.
Inositol polyphosphate 5-phosphatase K (INPP5K), also known as SKIP (skeletal muscle and kidney-enriched inositol phosphatase), is a cytoplasmic enzyme with 5-phosphatase activity toward phosphoinositides (PIs). Mutations in INPP5K are associated with autosomal recessive congenital muscular dystrophy with cataracts and intellectual disability (MDCCAID). Notably, muscular dystrophy is characterized by the hypoglycosylation of dystroglycan. Thus, far, the underlying mechanisms are only partially understood. In this study, we show that INPP5K expression increases during brain development. Knockdown of INPP5K in the neuroblastoma-derived cell line N2A impaired their neuronal-like differentiation and interfered with protein glycosylation.Copyright © 2024 Manzolillo, Gresing, Hübner and Franzka.
INPP5K (inositol polyphosphate 5-phosphatase K) is an endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-resident enzyme that acts as a phosphoinositide (PI) 5-phosphatase, capable of dephosphorylating various PIs including PI 4,5-bisphosphate (PI(4,5)P2), a key phosphoinositide found in the plasma membrane. Given its ER localization and substrate specificity, INPP5K may play a role in ER-plasma membrane contact sites. Furthermore, PI(4,5)P2 serves as a substrate for phospholipase C, an enzyme activated downstream of extracellular agonists acting on Gq-coupled receptors or tyrosine-kinase receptors, leading to IP3 production and subsequent release of Ca2+ from the ER, the primary intracellular Ca2+ storage organelle. In this study, we investigated the impact of INPP5K on ER Ca2+ dynamics using a previously established INPP5K-knockdown U-251 MG glioblastoma cell model. We here describe that loss of INPP5K impairs agonist-induced, IP3 receptor (IP3R)-mediated Ca2+ mobilization in intact cells, while the ER Ca2+ content and store-operated Ca2+ influx remain unaffected. To further elucidate the underlying mechanisms, we examined Ca2+ release in permeabilized cells stimulated with exogenous IP3. Interestingly, the absence of INPP5K also disrupted IP3-induced Ca2+ release events. These results suggest that INPP5K may directly influence IP3R activity through mechanisms yet to be resolved. The findings from this study point towards role of INPP5K in modulating ER calcium dynamics, particularly in relation to IP3-mediated signaling pathways. However, further work is needed to establish the general nature of our findings and to unravel the exact molecular mechanisms underlying the interplay between INNP5K function and Ca2+ signaling.© 2023 Published by Elsevier B.V.
One hurdle in the development of zebrafish models of human disease is the presence of multiple zebrafish orthologs resulting from whole genome duplication in teleosts. Mutations in inositol polyphosphate 5-phosphatase K (INPP5K) lead to a syndrome characterized by variable presentation of intellectual disability, brain abnormalities, cataracts, muscle disease, and short stature. INPP5K is a phosphatase acting at position 5 of phosphoinositides to control their homeostasis and is involved in insulin signaling, cytoskeletal regulation, and protein trafficking. Previously, our group and others have replicated the human phenotypes in zebrafish knockdown models by targeting both INPP5K orthologs inpp5ka and inpp5kb. Here, we show that inpp5ka is the more closely related orthologue to human INPP5K. While both inpp5ka and inpp5kb mRNA expression levels follow a similar trend in the developing head, eyes, and tail, inpp5ka is much more abundantly expressed in these tissues than inpp5kb. In situ hybridization revealed a similar trend, also showing unique localization of inpp5kb in the pineal gland and retina indicating different transcriptional regulation. We also found that inpp5kb has lost its catalytic activity against its preferred substrate, PtdIns(4,5)P2. Since most human mutations are missense changes disrupting phosphatase activity, we propose that loss of inpp5ka alone can be targeted to recapitulate the human presentation. In addition, we show that the function of inpp5kb has diverged from inpp5ka and may play a novel role in the zebrafish.© 2023. The Author(s).
Failure of CNS neurons to mount a significant growth response after trauma contributes to chronic functional deficits after spinal cord injury. Activator and repressor screening of embryonic cortical neurons and retinal ganglion cells in vitro and transcriptional profiling of developing CNS neurons harvested in vivo have identified several candidates that stimulate robust axon growth in vitro and in vivo Building on these studies, we sought to identify novel axon growth activators induced in the complex adult CNS environment in vivo We transcriptionally profiled intact sprouting adult corticospinal neurons (CSNs) after contralateral pyramidotomy (PyX) in nogo receptor-1 knock-out mice and found that intact CSNs were enriched in genes in the 3-phosphoinositide degradation pathway, including six 5-phosphatases. We explored whether inositol polyphosphate-5-phosphatase K (Inpp5k) could enhance corticospinal tract (CST) axon growth in preclinical models of acute and chronic CNS trauma. Overexpression of Inpp5k in intact adult CSNs in male and female mice enhanced the sprouting of intact CST terminals after PyX and cortical stroke and sprouting of CST axons after acute and chronic severe thoracic spinal contusion. We show that Inpp5k stimulates axon growth in part by elevating the density of active cofilin in labile growth cones, thus stimulating actin polymerization and enhancing microtubule protrusion into distal filopodia. We identify Inpp5k as a novel CST growth activator capable of driving compensatory axon growth in multiple complex CNS injury environments and underscores the veracity of using in vivo transcriptional screening to identify the next generation of cell-autonomous factors capable of repairing the damaged CNS.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Neurologic recovery is limited after spinal cord injury as CNS neurons are incapable of self-repair post-trauma. In vitro screening strategies exploit the intrinsically high growth capacity of embryonic CNS neurons to identify novel axon growth activators. While promising candidates have been shown to stimulate axon growth in vivo, concomitant functional recovery remains incomplete. We identified Inpp5k as a novel axon growth activator using transcriptional profiling of intact adult corticospinal tract (CST) neurons that had initiated a growth response after pyramidotomy in plasticity sensitized nogo receptor-1-null mice. Here, we show that Inpp5k overexpression can stimulate CST axon growth after pyramidotomy, stroke, and acute and chronic contusion injuries. These data support in vivo screening approaches to identify novel axon growth activators.Copyright © 2022 the authors.
Skipped: PubMed ID 33060052 is a review article
Macroautophagy/autophagy is a critical process for maintaining cellular homeostasis and has emerging implications in cancer biology. DRAM2 (DNA damage regulated autophagy modulator 2), a transmembrane protein enriched at lysosomal membranes, has been implicated in autophagy regulation; however, the upstream mechanisms governing its trafficking and function remain unclear. In this study, we identified RPS6KA3/RSK2, a stress-responsive kinase downstream of the MAPK pathway, as a novel upstream kinase of DRAM2. RPS6KA3/RSK2 interacted with and phosphorylated DRAM2 at Ser263 within its cytosolic tail. This phosphorylation was required for AP3D1/AP-3-dependent trafficking of DRAM2 to the late endosomal-lysosomal pathway, thereby facilitating autolysosome formation and sustaining autophagic flux. In contrast, the non-phosphorylatable DRAM2S263A mutant failed to bind AP3D1/AP-3, exhibited defective lysosomal trafficking, and was partially redistributed toward plasma membrane-proximal compartments, where it enhanced exosome secretion. Bioinformatic analyses revealed a strong positive correlation between RPS6KA3/RSK2 and DRAM2 expression in melanoma tissues, and elevated DRAM2 expression was associated with poor patient prognosis. Depletion of RPS6KA3/RSK2 or DRAM2 impaired autophagic flux and inhibited melanoma cell proliferation. Similarly, expression of the DRAM2S263A mutant suppressed melanoma progression in vitro and in vivo by disrupting autophagy. Moreover, DRAM2 protein levels were elevated in skin cancer tissues compared to normal tissues. Collectively, our findings uncover a phosphorylation-dependent trafficking switch that bifurcates DRAM2 function between autophagy and exosome secretion, and establish the RPS6KA3/RSK2-DRAM2 axis as a critical regulator of melanoma progression. This signaling pathway may represent a promising therapeutic target for autophagy-associated malignancies.Abbreviations: AGC: protein kinase A, G, and C families; AP-3: adaptor protein 3; CD: cytosolic domain; CSNK2/CK2: casein kinase 2; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CQ: chloroquine; CREB: cAMP responsive element binding protein; CTKD: C-terminal kinase domain; DRAM2: DNA damage regulated autophagy modulator 2; EBSS: Earle's balanced salt solution; ESCRT: endosomal sorting complexes required for transport; GEPIA: gene expression profiling interactive analysis; GPS: global positioning system; GRK7: G protein-coupled receptor kinase 7; GSK3B: glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta; IP-MS: immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry; LAMP1: lysosome associated membrane protein 1; LAMP2: lysosome associated membrane protein 2; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MAPK: mitogen-activated protein kinase; MVB: multivesicular body; NTA: nanoparticle tracking analysis; NTKD: N-terminal kinase domain; PI4K2: phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase type 2 alpha; PRKAA2: protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha 2; RPS6KA3/RSK2: ribosomal protein S6 kinase A3; SKCM: skin cutaneous melanoma; SQSTM1: sequestosome 1.
The autophagosomal SNARE STX17 (syntaxin 17) promotes lysosomal fusion and degradation, but its autophagosomal recruitment is incompletely understood. Notably, PtdIns4P is generated on autophagosomes and promotes fusion through an unknown mechanism. Here we show that soluble recombinant STX17 is spontaneously recruited to negatively charged liposomes and adding PtdIns4P to liposomes containing neutral lipids is sufficient for its recruitment. Consistently, STX17 colocalizes with PtdIns4P-positive autophagosomes in cells, and specific inhibition of PtdIns4P synthesis on autophagosomes prevents its loading. Molecular dynamics simulations indicate that C-terminal positively charged amino acids establish contact with membrane bilayers containing negatively charged PtdIns4P. Accordingly, Ala substitution of Lys and Arg residues in the C terminus of STX17 abolishes membrane binding and impairs its autophagosomal recruitment. Finally, only wild type but not Ala substituted STX17 expression rescues the autophagosome-lysosome fusion defect of STX17 loss-of-function cells. We thus identify a key step of autophagosome maturation that promotes lysosomal fusion.Abbreviations: Cardiolipin: 1',3'-bis[1-palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phospho]-glycerol; DMSO: dimethyl sulfoxide; GST: glutathione S-transferase; GUV: giant unilamellar vesicles; LAMP1: lysosomal associated membrane protein 1; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; PA: 1-palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphate; PC/POPC: 1-palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-glycero-3-phosphocholine; PG: 1-palmitoyl-2-linoleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phospho-(1'-rac-glycerol); PI: L-α-phosphatidylinositol; PI4K2A: phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase type 2 alpha; PIK3C3/VPS34: phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase catalytic subunit type 3; POPE/PE: 1-palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphoethanolamine; PS: 1-stearoyl-2-linoleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phospho-L-serine; PtdIns(3,5)P2: 1,2-dioleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phospho-(1"-myo-inositol-3',5'-bisphosphate); PtdIns3P: 1,2- dioleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phospho-(1'-myo-inositol-3'-phosphate); PtdIns4P: 1,2-dioleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phospho-(1"-myo-inositol-4'-phosphate); SDS-PAGE: sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis; STX17: syntaxin 17.
Recent studies revealed behaviorally defined sleep is conserved across broad species from insect to human. For evolutional analysis, it is critical to determine how homologous genes regulate the homologous function among species. Drosophila melanogaster shares numerous sleep related genes with mammals including Sik3, salt-inducible kinase 3, whose mutation caused long sleep both in mouse and fruit fly. The Drosophila rdgB (retinal degeneration B) encodes a membrane-associated phosphatidylinositol transfer protein and its mutation caused light-induced degeneration of photoreceptor cells. rdgB mutation also impaired phototransduction and olfactory behavior, indicating rdgB is involved in the normal neural transmission. Mammalian rdgB homologue, Pitpnm2 (phosphatidylinositol transfer protein membrane-associated 2) was discovered as one of SNIPPs (sleep-need index phosphoproteins), suggesting its role in sleep. Here, we show that rdgB is involved in sleep regulation in Drosophila. Pan-neuronal and mushroom body (MB) specific rdgB knockdown decreased nocturnal sleep. MB neurons play a dominant role, since the rescue of rdgB expression only in MB neurons in pan-neuronal knockdown reversed the sleep reducing effect of rdgB knockdown. These results revealed the sleep-related function of rdgB in Drosophila which may be conserved across species.Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Hereditary spastic paraplegia (HSP) denotes genetically heterogeneous disorders characterized by leg spasticity due to degeneration of corticospinal axons. SPG11 and SPG15 have a similar clinical course and together are the most prevalent autosomal recessive HSP entity. The respective proteins play a role for macroautophagy/autophagy and autophagic lysosome reformation (ALR). Here, we report that spg11 and zfyve26 KO mice developed motor impairments within the same course of time. This correlated with enhanced accumulation of autofluorescent material in neurons and progressive neuron loss. In agreement with defective ALR, tubulation events were diminished in starved KO mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) and lysosomes decreased in neurons of KO brain sections. Confirming that both proteins act in the same molecular pathway, the pathologies were not aggravated upon simultaneous disruption of both. We further show that PI4K2A (phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase type 2 alpha), which phosphorylates phosphatidylinositol to phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate (PtdIns4P), accumulated in autofluorescent deposits isolated from KO but not WT brains. Elevated PI4K2A abundance was already found at autolysosomes of neurons of presymptomatic KO mice. Immunolabelings further suggested higher levels of PtdIns4P at LAMP1-positive structures in starved KO MEFs. An increased association with LAMP1-positive structures was also observed for clathrin and DNM2/dynamin 2, which are important effectors of ALR recruited by phospholipids. Because PI4K2A overexpression impaired ALR, while its knockdown increased tubulation, we conclude that PI4K2A modulates phosphoinositide levels at autolysosomes and thus the recruitment of downstream effectors of ALR. Therefore, PI4K2A may play an important role in the pathogenesis of SPG11 and SPG15.Abbreviations: ALR: autophagic lysosome reformation; AP-5: adaptor protein complex 5; BFP: blue fluorescent protein; dKO: double knockout; EBSS: Earle's balanced salt solution; FBA: foot base angle; GFP: green fluorescent protein; HSP: hereditary spastic paraplegia; KO: knockout; LAMP1: lysosomal-associated membrane protein 1; MAP1LC3B/LC3: microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MEF: mouse embryonic fibroblast; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; PI4K2A: phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase type 2 alpha; PtdIns3P: phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate; PtdIns4P: phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate; RFP: red fluorescent protein; SPG: spastic paraplegia gene; TGN: trans-Golgi network; WT: wild type.
Skipped: PubMed ID 32255730 is a review article
Inositol polyphosphate-5-phosphatase E (INPP5E) encodes the ciliary protein INPP5E, which plays an important role in regulating the phospholipid membrane makeup of the primary cilium. Here, we utilize proximity labeled proteomics of INPP5E to broaden the number of known functional modules that work in close proximity to the protein. In doing so, we identified the EH-binding protein EHBP1 as a ciliary protein that localizes to the basal body and ciliary compartment of the primary cilium in human-derived fibroblasts and RPE cells. Additionally, we show that EHBP1 localizes to the rudimentary outer segment membrane of developing photoreceptors in retinal organoids. Dysfunction of INPP5E - either due to pathogenic variants in human fibroblasts or CRISPR/Cas9-generated loss-of-function variants in human retinal organoids - causes the localization of EHBP1 to be altered. Our data suggest that EHBP1 functions at the primary cilium and photoreceptors, where it is regulated by INPP5E. This provides further insights into the disease pathogenesis of retinal ciliopathies caused by pathogenic variants in INPP5E, and suggests that EHBP1 might be a candidate gene for retinal ciliopathies.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Inositol polyphosphate-5-phosphatase E (INPP5E) and type Ig phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate 5-kinase (PIPKIγ) coordinated the homeostasis of phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate and phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate in primary cilia. Modulating INPP5E or PIPKIγ activity changed the level of polycystin-1 and polycystin-2 in primary cilia. INPP5E inhibition increased the hypomorphic PKD1 variants (PC1-R3277C) in cilia and reduced cystogenesis in the kidney in vitro .Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease is mainly caused by mutations in PKD1 and PKD2 , which encode polycystin-1 (PC1) and polycystin-2 (PC2), respectively. PC1 and PC2 assemble a cation channel complex enriched in primary cilium, a sensory organelle associated with various developmental diseases, including polycystic kidney disease (PKD). Accumulating evidence supports the necessity of functional polycystin (PC) complex in cilia to prevent cystogenesis in the kidney, indicating that improving their ciliary levels may ameliorate defects underlying PKD pathogenesis. Yet, molecular mechanisms underlying the ciliary targeting and homeostasis of the PC complex are not fully understood.Indirect immunofluorescence microscopy was used to monitor ciliary levels of PC1 and PC2 in renal epithelial cells. Electrophysiology analysis in oocytes was used to determine the channel activity of the PC complex. Cystogenesis in the kidney was measured using in vitro 3D-Matrigel cell models and ex vivo mouse embryonic kidney models.Suppressing inositol polyphosphate-5-phosphatase E (INPP5E) or activating type Ig phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate 5-kinase raised ciliary levels of the PC complex in both normal renal epithelial cells and cells carrying autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease mutations that interrupt the trafficking of PCs into cilia, including GANAB inactivation and the trafficking PKD1 mutation p.Arg3277Cys (RC). PC1 RC formed a complex with PC2 and exhibited normal channel activity in vitro . An INPP5E that increases PC1 and PC2 in cilia, suppressed in vitro forskolin-induced cystogenesis of inner medullary collecting duct epithelial cell line 3 cells in 3D Matrigel and ex vivo cyst formation in embryonic Pkd1RC/RC mouse kidneys.Our results demonstrated that increasing the ciliary level of PCs, by manipulating a ciliary phosphoinositide signaling axis, enhanced the functionality of PCs and suppressed cystogenesis of renal epithelial cells in vitro .Copyright © 2025 by the American Society of Nephrology.
Although research has increasingly been focused on pulmonary tuberculosis (PTB) in adolescents, its diagnosis remains complex and challenging. Thus, the use of host transcription markers in the diagnosis of adolescent PTB was evaluated in this study.The study cohort comprised 40 adolescents (aged 14-18 years) with PTB who had received their first PTB diagnosis at Anhui Provincial Chest Hospital, China, between January and December 2023 (case group) and 32 healthy adolescents who had undergone physical examinations at The First Affiliated Hospital of the University of Science and Technology of China during the same period (control group). Peripheral blood samples were collected from both groups, and isolated monocytes were subjected to transcriptome sequencing and bioinformatic analysis. The relevant genes were confirmed through quantitative polymerase chain reaction. The diagnostic value of these genes in adolescent PTB patients was analysed using receiver operating characteristic curves. Furthermore, an in vitro model was constructed by infecting THP-1 cells with the Mycobacterium tuberculosis strain H37Ra to assess whether the in vitro expression levels of the identified genes were consistent with those of the genes in the peripheral blood monocytes of adolescents with PTB. The specific mechanisms were explored using methods such as lentiviral infection, flow cytometry, immunofluorescence, Western blotting, and qRT‒PCR.The results revealed that the expression level of the myotubularin-related protein 4 gene (MTMR4) was lower in the case group than in the control group (P < 0.0001; area under the curve: 0.946; 95 % confidence interval: 0.893-0.999; cut-off value: 0.844; sensitivity: 0.875; specificity: 0.969). The expression level of the oncostatin M gene (OSM) was greater in the case group than in the control group (P = 0.014; area under the curve: 0.962; 95 % confidence interval: 0.914-1.000; cut-off value: 0.919; sensitivity: 0.950; specificity: 0.969). However, no significant between-group difference was detected in the expression level of the complement component 1q subcomponent A gene. The results from the in vitro experiment indicated that the expression levels of MTMR4 and OSM were consistent between the H37Ra-infected cells and the case group samples. Bioinformatics analysis revealed that cytokine-cytokine receptor interactions, JAK/STAT signalling and PI3K/cell survival-related pathways play key roles in the pathogenesis of adolescent PTB. Additionally, we found that H37Ra infection affected tuberculosis progression via the OSM/PI3K/GPX4 pathway.Peripheral blood monocyte OSM and MTMR4 may serve as biomarkers of adolescent PTB. We speculate that targeting the OSM signalling pathway by knocking down OSM expression or inhibiting its ligand/receptor might be a strategy to reduce pulmonary tuberculosis-related tissue damage.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
In humans, inositol polyphosphate-5-phosphatase E (INPP5E) mutations cause retinal degeneration as part of Joubert and MORM syndromes and can also cause non-syndromic blindness. In mice, mutations cause a spectrum of brain, kidney and other anomalies and prevent the formation of photoreceptor outer segments. To further explore the function of Inpp5e in photoreceptors, we generated conditional and inducible knockouts of mouse Inpp5e where the gene was deleted either during outer segment formation or after outer segments were fully formed. In both cases, the loss of Inpp5e led to severe defects in photoreceptor outer segment morphology and ultimately photoreceptor cell loss. The primary morphological defect consisted of outer segment shortening and reduction in the number of newly forming discs at the outer segment base. This was accompanied by structural abnormalities of the Golgi, mislocalized rhodopsin and an accumulation of extracellular vesicles. In addition, knockout cells showed disruption of the actin network. Together, these data demonstrate that Inpp5e plays a crucial role in maintaining the outer segment and the normal process of outer segment renewal depends on the activity of this enzyme.© 2025. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Skipped: PubMed ID 39781470 is a review article
In humans, inositol polyphosphate-5-phosphatase e (INPP5E) mutations cause retinal degeneration as part of Joubert and MORM syndromes and can also cause non-syndromic blindness. In mice, mutations cause a spectrum of brain, kidney, and other anomalies and prevent the formation of photoreceptor outer segments. To further explore the function of Inpp5e in photoreceptors, we generated conditional and inducible knockouts of mouse Inpp5e where the gene was deleted either during outer segment formation or after outer segments were fully formed. In both cases, the loss of Inpp5e led to severe defects in photoreceptor outer segment morphology and ultimately photoreceptor cell loss. The primary morphological defect consisted of outer segment shortening and reduction in the number of newly forming discs at the outer segment base. This was accompanied by structural abnormalities of the Golgi apparatus, mislocalized rhodopsin, and an accumulation of extracellular vesicles. In addition, knockout cells showed a reduction in the size and prevalence of the actin network at the site of new disc morphogenesis and the occasional formation of membrane whorls instead of discs in a subset of cells. Together, these data demonstrate that Inpp5e plays a critical role in maintaining the outer segment and the normal process of outer segment renewal depends on the activity of this enzyme.
INPP5E encodes inositol polyphosphate-5-phosphatase E, an enzyme involved in regulating the phosphatidylinositol (PIP) makeup of the primary cilium membrane. Pathogenic variants in INPP5E hence cause a variety of ciliopathies: genetic disorders caused by dysfunctional cilia. While the majority of these disorders are syndromic, such as the neuronal ciliopathy Joubert syndrome, in some cases patients will present with an isolated phenotype-most commonly non-syndromic retinitis pigmentosa (RP). Here, we report two novel variants in INPP5E identified in two patients with non-syndromic RP: patient 1 with compound heterozygous variants (c.1516C > T, p.(Q506*), and c.847G > A, p.(A283T)) and patient 2 with a homozygous variant (c.1073C > T, p.(P358L)). To determine whether these variants were causative for the phenotype in the patients, automated ciliary phenotyping of patient-derived dermal fibroblasts was performed for percent ciliation, cilium length, retrograde IFT trafficking, and INPP5E localization. In both patients, a decrease in ciliary length and loss of INPP5E localization in the primary cilia were seen. With these molecular findings, we can confirm functionally that the novel variants in INPP5E are causative for the RP phenotypes seen in both patients. Additionally, this study demonstrates the usefulness of utilizing ciliary phenotyping as an assistant in ciliopathy diagnosis and phenotyping.© 2024. The Author(s).
Aurora Kinase A (AURKA) promotes cell proliferation and is overexpressed in different types of polycystic kidney disease (PKD). To understand AURKA's role in regulating renal cyst development we conditionally deleted the gene in mouse models of Autosomal Dominant PKD (ADPKD) and Joubert Syndrome, caused by Polycystin 1 (Pkd1) and Inositol polyphosphate-5-phosphatase E (Inpp5e) mutations respectively. We show that while Aurka is dispensable for collecting duct development and homeostasis, its deletion prevents cyst formation in both disease models. Cross-comparison of transcriptional changes implicated AKT signaling in cyst prevention and we show that (i) AURKA and AKT physically interact, (ii) AURKA regulates AKT activity in a kinase-independent manner and (iii) inhibition of AKT can reduce disease severity. AKT activation also regulates Aurka expression, creating a feed-forward loop driving renal cystogenesis. We find that the AURKA kinase inhibitor Alisertib stabilises the AURKA protein, agonizing its cystogenic functions. These studies identify AURKA as a master regulator of renal cyst development in different types of PKD, functioning in-part via AKT.© 2024. The Author(s).
Store-operated Ca2+ entry (SOCE) is central for maintaining cellular Ca2+ homeostasis, and it is initiated by the depletion of Ca2+ in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and activation of stromal interaction molecule 1 (STIM1). STIM1 acts as an ER Ca2+ sensor and engages with plasma membrane ORAI1 channels to facilitate ORAI1 activation and Ca2+ influx. Here, we found that STIM1 forms a complex with myotubularin-related protein 7 (MTMR7) to regulate ORAI1 inactivation during prolonged Ca2+ entry. MTMR7 alters plasma membrane PI(3,5)P2 and PI(4,5)P2 levels, increasing ORAI1 inactivation and decreasing SOCE. Loss of catalytic phosphatase function of MTMR7 weakens ORAI1 inactivation and enhances SOCE activity, while the disruption of MTMR7 and STIM1 association retains ORAI1 inactivation. The MTMR7/STIM1 complex positions MTMR7 at ER-plasma membrane contact sites to fine-tune lipid signaling, prevent premature STIM1 activation, and modify ORAI1 inactivation. These findings provide insight into novel modes of regulation of ORAI1 inactivation by phosphoinositides (PIPs).© 2026 The Author(s).
Stromal interaction molecule 1 (STIM1) is a Ca2+ sensor in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane. The protein plays a crucial role in store-operated Ca2+ entry (SOCE) by transducing ER Ca2+ depletion signals to Ca2+ release-activated Ca2+ channel protein 1 (ORAI1) at the plasma membrane. Myotubularin related protein 7 (MTMR7) is a lipid phosphatase that dephosphorylates phosphoinositides. Using yeast two-hybrid analysis, immunoprecipitation and fluorescence microscopy, we discovered that MTMR7 interacts with STIM1 at the ER. These observations identified MTMR7 as a novel STIM1-binding protein that bridges myotubularins and phosphoinositide signaling with SOCE. Our research revealed a novel link between Ca2+ signaling and phosphoinositide biology, positioning MTMR7 as a potential marker or drug target for SOCE related human pathophysiology.
Myotubularin-related protein 7 (MTMR7) represses proliferation in several cell types. However, the role of MTMR7 in pulmonary arterial smooth muscle cells (PASMCs) and pulmonary hypertension (PH) is unknown. The present study aimed to explore the role of MTMR7 in PH, as well as in the proliferation and migration of PASMCs. A monocrotaline (MCT)-induced PH mouse model was established. Mtmr7-transgenic (Mtmr7-Tg) mice and an adenovirus carrying the Mtmr7 vector (Ad-Mtmr7) were used to achieve MTMR7 overexpression in vivo and in vitro, respectively. Ultrasound and morphological analyses were used to evaluate the severity of PH. Cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) and Ki-67 immunofluorescence staining were used to assess the proliferation of PASMCs. Wound-healing and transwell assays were used to assess cell migration. MTMR7 was upregulated in hypoxia-stimulated PASMCs and pulmonary arteries of MCT-treated mice. When compared with wild-type mice, PH-associated symptoms were significantly ameliorated in Mtmr7-Tg mice after MCT treatment when compared to wild-type mice. MTMR7 overexpression suppressed the proliferation and migration of PASMCs induced by hypoxia. Further experiments revealed that MTMR7 inhibited the phosphorylation levels of ERK1/2 and STAT3 both in vivo and in vitro. Restoring either ERK1/2 or STAT3 eliminated the protective role of MTMR7 against PH. Additionally, restoring ERK1/2 also reversed MTMR7-mediated STAT3 dephosphorylation. Our study highlights the inhibitory role of MTMR7 in PH and in the proliferation and migration of PASMCs and thus provides a novel potent therapeutic strategy for treating PH.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Inhibition of K-RAS effectors like B-RAF or MEK1/2 is accompanied by treatment resistance in cancer patients via re-activation of PI3K and Wnt signaling. We hypothesized that myotubularin-related-protein-7 (MTMR7), which inhibits PI3K and ERK1/2 signaling downstream of RAS, directly targets RAS and thereby prevents resistance. Using cell and structural biology combined with animal studies, we show that MTMR7 binds and inhibits RAS at cellular membranes. Overexpression of MTMR7 reduced RAS GTPase activities and protein levels, ERK1/2 phosphorylation, c-FOS transcription and cancer cell proliferation in vitro. We located the RAS-inhibitory activity of MTMR7 to its charged coiled coil (CC) region and demonstrate direct interaction with the gastrointestinal cancer-relevant K-RASG12V mutant, favouring its GDP-bound state. In mouse models of gastric and intestinal cancer, a cell-permeable MTMR7-CC mimicry peptide decreased tumour growth, Ki67 proliferation index and ERK1/2 nuclear positivity. Thus, MTMR7 mimicry peptide(s) could provide a novel strategy for targeting mutant K-RAS in cancers.Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Myotubularin-related protein 7 (MTMR7) suppresses proliferation in various cell types and is associated with cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases. However, whether MTMR7 regulates vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) and vascular intimal hyperplasia remains unclear. We explored the role of MTMR7 in phenotypic switching of VSMC and vascular intimal hyperplasia after injury.MTMR7 expression was significantly downregulated in injured arteries. Compared to wild type (WT) mice, Mtmr7-transgenic (Mtmr7-Tg) mice showed reduced intima/media ratio, decreased percentage of Ki-67-positive cells within neointima, and increased Calponin expression in injured artery. In vitro, upregulating MTMR7 by Len-Mtmr7 transfection inhibited platelet derived growth factor (PDGF)-BB-induced proliferation, migration of VSMC and reversed PDGF-BB-induced decrease in expression of Calponin and SM-MHC. Microarray, single cell sequence, and other bioinformatics analysis revealed that MTMR7 is highly related to glucose metabolism and mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1). Further experiments confirmed that MTMR7 markedly repressed glycolysis and mTORC1 activity in PDGF-BB-challenged VSMC in vitro. Restoring mTORC1 activity abolished MTMR7-mediated suppression of glycolysis, phenotypic shift in VSMC in vitro and protection against vascular intimal hyperplasia in vivo. Furthermore, upregulating MTMR7 in vitro led to dephosphorylation and dissociation of p62 from mTORC1 in VSMC. External expression of p62 in vitro also abrogated the inhibitory effects of MTMR7 on glycolysis and phenotypic switching in PDGF-BB-stimulated VSMC.Our study demonstrates that MTMR7 inhibits injury-induced vascular intimal hyperplasia and phenotypic switching of VSMC. Mechanistically, the beneficial effects of MTMR7 are conducted via suppressing p62/mTORC1-mediated glycolysis.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Colorectal adenomas are precursor lesions for colorectal cancer (CRC), a major cause of cancer-related death. Despite all molecular insights, there are still unknown variables in the development of CRC as well as uncertainties regarding adenoma recurrence after resection. We aimed to characterize the expression of docking protein 1 (DOK1) and myotubularin-related protein 7 (MTMR7), which share inhibiting functions on EGFR-RAS-signalling, a major oncogenic driver in CRC, and their association with clinical variables and adenoma recurrence.This observational study is based on clinical data obtained from patients who underwent routine endoscopy and consecutive follow-up examinations. Immunohistochemistry was conducted both in dysplastic tissue and adjacent non-dysplastic mucosa followed by microscopical assessment. Recurrence was differentiated between local, segmental and distant relapse.A total of 56 patients (23 females) gathering 96 adenomas/polyps were included. 36 patients experienced a metachronous lesion, 23 patients had simultaneous lesions in their index endoscopy. Female patients showed lower levels of MTMR7 in adenomas (p=0.0318). Adenomas of young patients showed lower DOK1 than those of older patients (p=0.0469). Big adenomas showed a higher expression of DOK1 than small lesions (p=0.0044). In serrated lesions, DOK1 was reduced (p=0.0026) and correlated with the quantity of lesions (p < 0.001). MTMR7 was significantly reduced in distant (p=0.05) and local segmental recurrence (p=0.0362), while DOK1 showed higher expression in recurrence (p=0.0291).We found ambivalent results regarding the role of the markers as potential tumor suppressors, implying a context-dependent function of these molecules which might change in the course of time. DOK1 may play an inhibiting role in the serrated pathway. Remarkably, molecular markers have the potential to predict recurrence, since a combined expression analysis of high DOK1 and low MTMR7 correlated with the likelihood of segmental adenoma recurrence.
Increased expression of inositol polyphosphate 4-phosphatase, type II (INPP4B) correlates with aggressive phenotypes in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). Although prior studies have linked INPP4B to lysosome positioning, exocytosis, and enhanced cell migration and invasion in PDAC, the specific mechanisms underlying these processes remain unclear. In this study, we demonstrate that INPP4B promotes fibronectin 1 (FN1) secretion via transient receptor potential cation channel mucolipin subfamily member 1-dependent lysosomal exocytosis. In addition, we show that INPP4B-mediated regulation of F-actin formation, focal adhesion kinase activation, and increased cell migration and invasion depend on FN1 exocytosis. These findings underscore the INPP4B-transient receptor potential cation channel mucolipin subfamily member 1-FN1 axis as a critical contributor to PDAC aggressiveness and identify it as a promising candidate for the development of new therapeutic strategies.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
