Glioma pathophysiology is robustly regulated by interactions with neurons. Key to these interactions is the role of neuroligin-3 (NLGN3), a synaptic adhesion molecule shed in response to neuronal activity that functions as a paracrine factor crucial for glioma growth. Here we elucidate the mechanistic pathway whereby shed NLGN3 interacts with glioma and their normal glial counterparts. NLGN3 binds to chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan 4 (CSPG4, also known as NG2) on both glioma and healthy oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs), facilitating CSPG4 shedding by ADAM10. NLGN3-CSPG4 interactions alter membrane tension, thereby activating mechanotransducers, primarily PIEZO1, leading to membrane depolarization and subsequent ADAM10-mediated CSPG4 shedding. The NLGN3-CSPG4-PIEZO1 pathway maintains OPCs in an undifferentiated, stem-like state and promotes glioma proliferation, underscoring its dual roles in healthy and malignant contexts.© 2026. The Author(s).
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common progressive and irreversible neurodegenerative disorder in humans that affects memory, thinking and behavior. Impairment in synaptic plasticity is one of the hallmarks in AD, with most of the impairment occurring in the hippocampal region, a key part of the brain for memory and learning. Therefore, the upregulation of hippocampal plasticity is critical to remediate the progression of AD and preserve memory formation and cognitive functions. Recent studies have described β-hydroxy-β-methylbutyrate (HMB), a body building supplement commonly used by athletes, as a candidate molecule for improving hippocampal plasticity. Clinically, AD is characterized by the abnormal accumulation of beta amyloid (Aβ) plaques, coupled with intracellular aggregates of hyperphosphorylated tau protein. In addition to enhancing hippocampal plasticity, HMB has been also demonstrated to lower amyloid plaques in a mouse model of AD. Although liver is rich in peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARα), recent findings have established the presence of PPARα in hippocampus and other parts of the brain. Interestingly, HMB has been shown to utilize PPARα for lowering plaques and increasing hippocampal plasticity. Here, we discuss these newly described features of HMB with possible implications for the use of HMB supplement in patients with dementia and AD.
Idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension (IPAH) exhibits a marked female predominance. Despite this "estrogen paradox," the molecular basis of sex-associated pathogenesis remains incompletely understood, limiting the development of precision diagnostic strategies.To develop a sex-stratified computational framework that integrates transcriptomic profiling and ensemble machine learning to identify female-associated candidate biomarkers in IPAH.Sex-stratified differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were derived from pulmonary arterial endothelial cells (GSE303084, n = 48) and lung tissue (GSE126262, n = 16). Functional mechanisms were explored via GO/KEGG enrichment and protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks. A consensus machine learning framework incorporating 12 feature selection algorithms prioritized stable candidate biomarkers. Model performance was evaluated using a leakage-free repeated stratified 5-fold cross-validation framework, followed by independent external validation in a female IPAH cohort. Sex-associated immune landscapes were characterized via CIBERSORTx-based deconvolution.Female-associated DEGs were associated with metabolic dysregulation, lysosomal pathways, and TGF-β/Wnt signaling. PPI analysis identified MMP1, SFRP1, SNAI2, ADAM12, and INHBA as central hub genes. The ensemble framework prioritized METTL27 and CDH11 as candidate biomarkers. A two-gene signature (METTL27 + CDH11) demonstrated robust performance under leakage-free repeated cross-validation (XGBoost mean AUC 0.875 ± 0.161) and correctly identified 26 of 28 female IPAH patients in an independent external cohort (patient-detection sensitivity 92.9%; 95% CI, 77.4-98.0%). Immune deconvolution revealed marked sex dimorphism, with adaptive immune enrichment in females and innate myeloid predominance in males.Our approach identifies a candidate two-gene signature (METTL27/CDH11) for female IPAH and highlights TGF-β/Wnt signaling, metabolic, and immune dimorphism as key drivers of sex-associated pathogenesis. These findings provide a foundation for future clinical and experimental validation of sex-informed candidate molecular biomarkers in IPAH.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) and subsequent post-hemorrhagic hydrocephalus (PHH) are common, severe complications of preterm birth associated with substantial morbidity and mortality. The pathophysiology of IVH/PHH involves the disruption of N-cadherin-mediated cell junctions in the ventricular zone (VZ), impaired differentiation of radial glial cells into ependymal cells, and reactive astrogliosis. A disintegrin and metalloproteinase domain-containing protein 10 (ADAM10) is a widely distributed metalloproteinase known to cleave cell junction proteins under inflammatory conditions similar to IVH/PHH. We hypothesize that ADAM10 hyperactivity mediates the cleavage of N-cadherin, leading to VZ disruption and the development of ventriculomegaly in PHH. Human postmortem samples with IVH were examined by immunofluorescence. Two/four-day-old (P2-P4) mice received intraventricular injections of lysed blood to model IVH and subsequent PHH. Additionally, the ADAM10 agonist α-hemolysin (Hla) and the specific inhibitor GI254023X were used to modulate its enzyme activity in vivo and in vitro [using neural stem cell (NSC)/ependymal cultures]. Human IVH samples showed NSC-ependyma alterations associated with ADAM10-dependent N-cadherin cleavage. Similarly, mice injected with blood-induced PHH displayed VZ disruption, N-cadherin cleavage, and ADAM10 activation compared to controls (p < 0.05). In vitro, Hla-induced ADAM10 activation triggered N-cadherin cleavage in NSC-ependymal cells (p = 0.0286), an effect that was rescued by the ADAM10 inhibitor GI254023X. In vivo, Hla injection alone was sufficient to induce VZ disruption and significant ventriculomegaly (p = 0.0015). ADAM10 inhibition with GI254023X prevented both N-cadherin loss (p = 0.0087) and the development of ventriculomegaly (p = 0.0015). These results identify ADAM10 as a key mediator of VZ disruption and N-cadherin cleavage in the context of IVH/PHH. Pharmacological inhibition of ADAM10 represents a promising non-surgical therapeutic strategy for IVH and PHH, and other neuroinflammatory disorders.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by early synaptic dysfunction followed by progressive amyloid beta (Aβ) accumulation, neuroinflammation, and cognitive decline. We previously identified secreted frizzled-related protein 1 (SFRP1) as a multifactorial contributor to AD pathogenesis and provided initial evidence that its neutralization ameliorates pathological AD-like traits in mice. Here we evaluate the pharmacodynamics, biodistribution, and therapeutic window of an anti-SFRP1 monoclonal antibody (α-SFRP1) in double transgenic amyloid precursor protein (APP) and presenilin-1 (PS1) mice (APP/PS1).Pharmacokinetics and target engagement of α-SFRP1 were assessed in groups of both male and female APP/PS1 mice using biotinylated or Zirconium-89 labeled (89Zr) antibodies, with tissue distribution and α-SFRP1 levels quantified by in-house enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) or positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT). Therapeutic efficacy was evaluated by administering α-SFRP1 or the SFRP1 inhibitor WAY-316606 at different stages of disease progression via retro-orbital injection, followed by analysis of AD-like pathology using ELISA and quantitative immunofluorescence assays and statistical analysis.Using 89Zr-labeled antibodies, we show that intravenously administered α-SFRP1 engages its target systemically and reaches the brain, although at substantially lower levels and with a rapid 24-h clearance. Treatment with α-SFRP1 had no apparent systemic side effects or sex-dependent differences, but its therapeutic efficacy against AD-like brain pathology was strongly dependent on disease stage. Although early administration reduced amyloid pathology in previous studies, treatment initiated at intermediate or advanced stages showed minimal benefit at standard doses. Higher antibody doses reduced amyloid burden and dystrophic neurites but were associated with increased mortality. Pharmacological inhibition of SFRP1 using a small-molecule inhibitor similarly failed to ameliorate pathology at intermediate stages.Together, these findings demonstrate that SFRP1 remains a relevant therapeutic target in AD, but its effective modulation is constrained by limited brain exposure and a narrow therapeutic window, underscoring the importance of early intervention and prompting the search for improved brain-targeted delivery strategies.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Translational Research & Clinical Interventions published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Central venous catheters are a major risk factor for Candida albicans vascular infections, which remain challenging to manage. Although antifungal therapy is standard, the host pathways shaping vascular responses-particularly the Notch signaling pathway (NSP)-are not well characterized in this context. In addition, the potential influence of the prostaglandin pathway on vascular NSP-related responses during infection remains unclear. In this study, a rat model of central venous catheter-associated C. albicans infection was used to evaluate microbiological outcomes and vascular NSP-related protein expression. Immunohistochemical analyses were performed to assess Candida immunostaining alongside the expression of Notch receptors (Notch1-3) and ligands (DLL1/4, Jagged1/2) in vascular tissues. Experimental groups included sham, infected control, antifungal-treated (fluconazole, caspofungin, liposomal amphotericin B), and prostaglandin pathway-intervention groups (sulprostone and sulprostone followed by indomethacin). C. albicans infection was associated with higher vascular NSP-related protein expression compared with sham animals. Antifungal-treated groups showed lower NSP-related protein expression, while fungicidal agents were associated with absence of fungal growth in catheter and kidney cultures. In the sulprostone-indomethacin-treated group, NSP-related protein expression levels were lower than those in the sulprostone-treated group despite persistent fungal burden. In conclusion, central venous catheter-associated C. albicans infection was associated with altered vascular NSP-related protein expression. Differences in NSP-related protein expression patterns were observed across antifungal- and prostaglandin pathway-intervention groups. These findings are descriptive and do not allow causal inference but may provide a basis for future studies exploring the role of NSP in vascular responses to C. albicans infection.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42511561 is a review article
Protein tyrosine phosphatase non-receptor type 14 (PTPN14) exhibits dual roles in cancer, acting as either a tumor suppressor or oncogene depending on context, while its role in colon adenocarcinoma (COAD) and liver hepatocellular carcinoma (LIHC) remains unclear. Since COAD and LIHC showed high incidence and mortality rates, we investigated PTPN14's prognostic and mechanistic significance in COAD and LIHC. Pan-cancer analysis were performed based on TCGA and GEO database. Clinical validation used IHC staining of 50 COAD and 40 LIHC specimens. In vitro functional assays and in vivo xenograft models assessed PTPN14's impact on proliferation, migration, invasion and tumorigenicity. Mechanistic studies included Co-IP, immunofluorescence, ubiquitination assay and Western blot to evaluate PTPN14-Notch1 interaction and pathway regulation. As a result, pan-cancer analysis identified PTPN14 as prognostic biomarker in COAD and LIHC. Clinical validation confirmed PTPN14 as a prognostic biomarker in COAD and LIHC and associated with survival and TNM stage progression. In vitro experiments revealed knockdown of PTPN14 suppressed the proliferation, migration and invasion of COAD and LIHC cell lines. PTPN14 stabilized Notch1 by competitively binding to prevent FBXW7-mediated ubiquitination, and increasing the expression of Notch1 intracellular domain (Notch1 ICD) and downstream targets (DLL1 and HES1). At last, in vivo experiments revealed knockdown of PTPN14 inhibited xenograft tumor formation in COAD and LIHC cell lines. In conclusion, PTPN14 drives COAD and LIHC progression via Notch signaling stabilization, serving as a prognostic biomarker and potential therapeutic target for COAD and LIHC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42492839 is a review article
Patrolling monocytes (pMos) scavenge debris from vessel walls and mediate antibody-dependent cellular phagocytosis, making them attractive cell therapy candidates for cancer, atherosclerosis, and Alzheimer's disease. However, methods to generate pMos for cell therapy are not available. To address this, we developed a 2-step procedure to produce pMos in vitro from murine bone marrow (BM). First, myeloid progenitors were expanded and enriched from BM using cytokines for 4 d. Second, expanded progenitors were differentiated into pMos on delta-like ligand 1 (DLL1)-expressing monolayers for 8 d. We confirmed that in vitro grown pMos expressed the transcription factor Nr4a1 (Nur77) and other canonical pMos surface proteins, and depended on Notch signaling for their development. RNA-sequencing revealed that in vitro pMos expressed hallmark pMos genes, including Cx3cr1, Itgax (CD11c), CD43, Fcγr4, and Cd274 (PD-L1), and their gene signatures clustered closely with in vivo blood and BM pMos. Transcriptomic and phenotypic analyses further demonstrated that in vitro pMos were distinct from classical BM macrophages. Phagocytosis assays demonstrated the function of in vitro pMos in cancer cell uptake. Adoptive transfer studies demonstrated that in vitro pMos persisted within the circulation and lung vasculature during the early post-transfer period compared with BM-derived macrophages, consistent with the vascular-patrolling properties of pMos. Adoptive transfer of pMos reduced lung tumor burden in a metastatic model, supporting an anti-tumoral role for pMos and their ability to mediate immune surveillance in vivo. These findings demonstrate that the DLL1 culture system allows for propagation of functional pMos, enabling studies of pMos biology and their therapeutic potential.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Society for Leukocyte Biology.
Critical-sized bone defect repair remains a formidable challenge because conventional approaches cannot recapitulate the temporally coordinated cascade of endochondral ossification. Here, we report a biomimetic, temporally programmed cytokine delivery scaffold that integrates spatially defined nanofiber architecture with sequential biochemical activation to orchestrate orderly tissue regeneration. The scaffold comprises electrospun polycaprolactone nanofibers with an inner uniaxially aligned layer and an outer random layer. Interleukin-8 (IL-8), strategically loaded into the aligned fibers to reinstate early-stage chemotactic cues markedly diminished in adult bone defect repair, is released in a sustained manner during the initial 14 days, enhancing mesenchymal stem cell recruitment and initiating chondrogenic differentiation. At later stages, bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2) encapsulated between the fiber layers is released on demand via near-infrared (NIR) stimulation, enabling temporally precise promotion of osteogenesis. In vivo, the staged delivery system led to a 72.1% greater bone volume fraction at 12 weeks compared to controls. IL-8-driven early cartilage formation and BMP-2-induced late-stage bone regeneration were consistent with upregulated expression of chondrogenic markers S100 (3.63-fold) and COL2 (1.57-fold) at 4 weeks and subsequently, osteogenic markers OCN (1.68-fold) and OPN (1.47-fold) at 12 weeks. By reinstating early molecular signals absent in conventional healing and coupling them with on-demand osteogenic stimulation, this programmable delivery strategy offers a potent and adaptable approach for regenerating critical-sized bone defects and potentially other complex tissues requiring staged repair.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
The current evidence suggests that the formation of pulp stones (PS) has a genetic background. Therefore, the present study aimed to evaluate the association between PS in orthodontically treated patients and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the mineralization-related genes (bone morphogenetic protein 2 [BMP2], BMP4, SMAD6, and runt-related transcription factor 2 [RUNX2]).This cross-sectional study analyzed genomic DNA and panoramic radiographs from patients with a history of orthodontic treatment. Panoramic radiographs were analyzed and PS were identified as well- or poorly defined radiopaque opacities located within the pulp chamber of the maxillary and mandibular first and second permanent molars. Genomic DNA obtained from all participants was analyzed. The genetic analysis focused on seven specific SNPs located in genes involved in mineralization pathways: BMP2 (rs235768 and rs1005464), BMP4 (rs17563), SMAD6 (rs3934908 and rs2119261), and RUNX2 (rs59983488 and rs1200425). Comparisons of allele and genotype (codominant, dominant, and recessive models) distributions between patients with and without PS were performed using the chi-square test. Logistic regression analyses were performed to control for potential confounders such as age and sex for the SNPs located in the RUNX2 gene. One-way ANOVA was applied to evaluate differences in the mean number of teeth with PS across genotypes. The significance level was established at α = 0.05.The final sample comprised 235 patients: 120 presented with PS, and 115 served as controls. For the SNP rs59983488 in RUNX2, a statistical association was observed for genotype distribution in the dominant model (p = 0.033) and for allele distribution (p = 0.022). For the SNP rs1200425 in RUNX2, a statistical association was observed for genotype distribution in the recessive model (p = 0.046; odds ratio [OR] = 2.0, confidence interval [CI] 95% 1.0-3.8). No statistically significant association was observed in the logistic regression analysis.Our study suggests that RUNX2 could have a small effect on the susceptibility of orthodontic patients to develop PS.Copyright © 2026 Daniel Hemming et al. International Journal of Dentistry published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Osteoporosis and osteosarcoma impose a substantial and rising global health burden, yet their transcriptomic landscapes have not been systematically compared. We performed a multiomics characterization integrating bulk transcriptomics, coexpression network analysis, immune deconvolution, single-cell RNA sequencing, and diagnostic classifier construction.Bulk transcriptomic profiling was performed using GSE56815 (circulating blood monocytes, n = 80; 40 low-BMD/40 high-BMD) and the TARGET-OS database (n = 88 osteosarcoma tumor samples; DNA methylation n = 86; copy number n = 81). Differential expression was assessed by Welch's t-test with Benjamini-Hochberg correction. Coexpression modules were identified by hierarchical clustering of the Top 2000 most variable probes with dynamic tree cutting. A logistic regression classifier was constructed from the Top 20 differentially expressed probes using fivefold-stratified cross-validation. Single-cell RNA sequencing of an osteosarcoma tumor specimen (GEO accession GSM9030790) was processed with SVD-based dimensionality reduction and K-means clustering (k = 8; n = 3658 cells passing QC). In vitro validation was conducted by qRT-PCR in MC3T3-E1 osteoblast precursor cells and RAW264.7 osteoclast precursor cells.Differential expression analysis identified 4347 probe sets at nominal p < 0.05, of which 604 remained significant after Benjamini-Hochberg correction. Eight coexpression modules were identified; module M0 showed a weak positive association with low-BMD status (r = 0.184), which did not reach statistical significance. Six hub genes-SP7/Osterix, RUNX2, BMP2, WNT5A, DKK1, and SOST-were examined by qRT-PCR: SP7, RUNX2, BMP2, and WNT5A showed significant downregulation (p < 0.01), whereas DKK1 showed significant upregulation (p < 0.01) and SOST showed a nonsignificant trend toward upregulation under osteoporosis-simulating conditions. The diagnostic classifier achieved a moderate AUC of 0.693 (fivefold CV range: 0.48-0.91), with the lower bound falling below the random classifier baseline (AUC = 0.5), indicating limited discriminative capacity in some data partitions. scRNA-seq resolved eight transcriptionally distinct cell clusters in the osteosarcoma specimen (3658 cells passing QC).This integrative multiomics study provides a comprehensive transcriptomic comparison of osteoporosis and osteosarcoma, identifies BMD-associated coexpression modules with experimentally validated hub genes, and establishes a reusable analytical framework for biomarker discovery in metabolic and malignant bone disease. However, the weak module-trait correlations, subthreshold classifier performance in some cross-validation folds, and the use of circulating blood monocytes to study bone-specific gene expression warrant cautious interpretation of the findings.Copyright © 2026 Dongming Fu et al. International Journal of Genomics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Segmental bone defects (SBD), frequently resulting from high-energy trauma like military combat injuries and major accidents, represent a significant clinical challenge because of the loss of a large bone segment and associated soft-tissue injury. These injuries often occur in military settings, where blast and ballistic trauma cause complex injuries requiring advanced reconstructive strategies. Similar injuries also occur in the civilian population in car accidents, falls, and workplace injuries. Existing therapies (autografts, allografts, and biomaterials) have limitations, including donor site morbidity and graft rejection, highlighting the need for novel bone regenerative approaches. Human placental tissue-derived xenografts (connective tissue matrix [CTM]), rich in structural proteins and growth factors, are under investigation for enhancing bone repair in severe musculoskeletal injuries. This study investigates the efficacy of placental tissue xenografts in a murine SBD model.A murine SBD model with a 2 mm defect in the femoral diaphysis of male C57BL/6J mice was used. Mice with SBD were divided into 5 experimental groups: saline control, bone morphogenic protein (BMP-2), and 3 different formulations of CTM (CTM Paste, CTM Membrane, and CTM Membrane+Paste). Treatments were delivered at the defect site at the time of surgery and mice were euthanized 13 weeks postsurgery. Bone healing and pain behaviors were assessed including radiographic scoring, microcomputed tomography (µCT), biomechanical torsion testing, weightbearing, locomotion, and spontaneous nociceptive behaviors. Statistical analyses included one-way or two-way ANOVA and unpaired Student's t-tests.BMP-2-treated groups showed significantly larger callus formation, however, lower bone volume/total volume (BV/TV) % compared to saline control was observed. In contrast, the CTM Membrane+Paste group exhibited significantly higher BV/TV%. Biomechanical tests revealed enhanced ultimate torque in BMP-2 and CTM Membrane+Paste groups versus saline controls. All treatment groups of SBD mice exhibited sustained pain behaviors after fracture, which did not return to baseline levels even when bone healing was complete.The CTM Membrane+Paste treatment group exhibited improved bone healing parameters in a murine model of SBD. Specifically, BV/TV and some biomechanical properties were improved. Notably, CTM did not increase pain behaviors. Further studies are needed to optimize graft effects and assess therapeutic value for clinical translation. Overall, the results support continued investigation, including potential combination therapies and trials in larger animal models.© The Association of Military Surgeons of the United States 2026.
Preeclampsia (PE) is a gestational hypertension disorder emerging after 20 weeks of pregnancy, complicating 5-8% of pregnancies and representing a leading cause of maternal-fetal morbidity and mortality. Despite its clinical significance, the etiology and pathogenesis of PE remain obscure. Sorting nexin 9 (SNX9), a key regulator of intracellular trafficking and endomembrane dynamics, has been poorly explored in reproductive physiology. This study investigates the role of SNX9 in PE, demonstrating significant downregulation of SNX9 in decidual tissues from preeclamptic patients. In vitro decidualization models showed SNX9 expression correlated with decidualization progression, as evidenced by upregulation of decidual markers (IGFBP1, PRL), while SNX9 knockdown impaired decidualization. Transwell assays revealed that aberrant SNX9 expression restricted trophoblast invasion into endometrial stromal cells. In pregnant mice, SNX9 expression in decidual tissues positively correlated with decidualization regulators (Wnt4, Bmp2) and markers (Prl8a2, Dtprp). Consistent expression patterns were observed in pseudopregnant mice after artificial decidualization induction, excluding embryonic influences. Collectively, these findings establish SNX9 as essential for normal decidualization, with dysregulated SNX9 potentially contributing to PE pathogenesis. This study uncovers a novel link between endomembrane dynamics and PE, providing insights into its molecular mechanisms.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for Reproduction and Fertility. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Distraction osteogenesis (DO) is a surgical technique used to repair skeletal defects by promoting bone and soft tissue regeneration. However, prolonged use of external fixators often causes complications such as infections and joint contractures. Neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) enhances osteoblast differentiation via bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2) and Akt signaling and may also modulate the Wnt/β-catenin pathway. In this study, we investigated the role of NT-3 in bone regeneration during DO. A DO model was established in 9-week-old male ICR mice, in which tibiae were osteotomized and stabilized with external fixators under anesthesia. After a 5-day latency period, distraction was performed at 0.2 mm every 12 hours for 8 days. RNA was extracted at defined time points post-osteotomy for quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) analysis, and NT-3 was administered post-distraction. Bone regeneration was evaluated by radiographic, histological, and biomechanical analyses. The effects of NT-3 and Dickkopf-1 were further examined in ST2 bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells. NT-3 significantly enhanced bone formation, increased bone mineral density within the DO gap, and improved the mechanical stiffness of regenerated bone. Histological examination revealed earlier bone continuity and greater callus formation in the NT-3 group. Gene expression analysis demonstrated upregulation of Wnt/β-catenin pathway components, including Wnt10b, β-catenin, and low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 5 (LRP5). In ST2 cells, NT3 increased the expression of LRP5, LRP6, β-catenin, and Runx2, while cotreatment with Dickkopf1 abolished these effects. These findings suggest that NT-3 promotes bone regeneration during DO by activating the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway, highlighting its therapeutic potential to improve DO outcomes.
Kidney fibrosis is the pathologic hallmark of chronic kidney disease (CKD) and is driven by fibroblast-to-myofibroblast transformation (FMT), excessive extracellular matrix accumulation, and persistent activation of transforming growth factor-β (TGFβ) signaling. Although TGFβ is a central mediator of fibrosis, its pleiotropic physiological functions have limited the development of direct anti-fibrotic therapies, highlighting the need to identify context-specific regulators of this pathway. Matrix Gla Protein (MGP) is a vitamin K-dependent extracellular protein best known for inhibiting vascular calcification; however, its role in kidney fibrosis remains unknown. Here, we demonstrate that MGP expression is markedly upregulated in fibroblasts from fibrotic kidneys in mouse models of chronic kidney injury and in human CKD samples. Using inducible global and fibroblast-specific Mgp knockout mice, we show that Mgp deficiency attenuates renal fibrosis, suppresses fibroblast activation, and preserves kidney function following folic acid nephropathy and unilateral ureteral obstruction. Mechanistically, MGP promotes FMT and amplifies TGFβ receptor/Smad3 signaling, whereas genetic or molecular inhibition of MGP blunts TGFβ-driven fibroblast activation both in vivo and in vitro. We further identify phosphorylation and γ-carboxylation as essential post-translational modifications required for the profibrotic activity of MGP. In addition, MGP interacts with bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2), reduces BMP-2 protein abundance, and counteracts BMP-2-mediated suppression of TGFβ signaling, thereby enhancing profibrotic responses. Collectively, these findings identify MGP as a previously unrecognized regulator of TGFβ-dependent fibroblast activation and kidney fibrosis, supporting MGP as a potential fibroblast-associated target for future strategies aimed at limiting CKD progression.© 2026. The Author(s).
Bone remodeling requires precise coordination between osteoblast-mediated bone formation and osteoclast-driven resorption. However, directly targetable and therapeutically actionable mediators that can coordinately modulate both processes during regeneration remain relatively limited. Here, we identify immunoglobulin superfamily member 10 (IGSF10) as a dual-function modulator of bone remodeling. Igsf10-deficient mice exhibit reduced bone mass, elevated osteoclast activity, and impaired osteogenesis. Recombinant IGSF10 protein restores osteogenic capacity and suppresses osteoclastogenesis in knockout cells, while exerting pro-osteogenic and anti-resorptive effects in wild-type mesenchymal and monocyte-derived cultures. Mechanistically, IGSF10 activates a noncanonical EGFR-STAT1 signaling pathway, distinct from BMP2-Smad signaling. Co-immunoprecipitation and molecular docking confirm IGSF10-EGFR interaction, and blockade of EGFR abrogates IGSF10-induced osteogenesis and its inhibitory effects on osteoclastogenesis. In vivo, IGSF10 promotes bone regeneration in both calvarial and periodontal defect models and exhibits synergy with subtherapeutic BMP2. These findings position IGSF10 as a previously unrecognized dual-acting regulator that coordinates bone formation and resorption in a context-dependent manner, with potential therapeutic value for craniofacial and skeletal regeneration.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42546854 is a review article
Ganoderic acid A (GAA), a natural triterpenoid derived from the fungal species Ganoderma lucidum which is known for its medicinal properties, is well recognized for its anti-inflammatory, anti-aging, kidney-protective, and hepatoprotective properties. However, its role in osteoporotic fracture (OF) healing remains unclear.This study aims to explore the pharmacological effects of GAA on OF healing and to clarify its underlying mechanisms.An ovariectomized femoral fracture model was treated with GAA or estradiol benzoate. Callus formation, mineralization and bone mineral density (BMD) were assessed by micro-computed tomography, radiographic scoring and DXA. Mechanical properties were evaluated by three-point bending tests. Histological analyses and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for serum bone formation and resorption markers were performed. RNA sequencing with GO, KEGG and GSEA analyses was used to explore molecular mechanisms. In vitro, MC3T3-E1 cells were used to assess osteogenic differentiation under GAA, estrogen receptor (ER) antagonist (ICI 182780) or selective ERα antagonist (Methyl-piperidino-pyrazole dihydrochloride, MPP) treatment. Biophysical interaction assays and molecular simulations were employed to characterize GAA-ERα interactions.GAA enhanced early callus mineralization, bone volume fraction, callus volume and trabecular number, and increased radiographic union, bone mineral density and flexural rigidity in OF mice. Histological analysis showed increased soft callus and mineralized bone with elevated bone formation and resorption markers. Transcriptomic analyses indicated that GAA modulated hormone-related pathways, identifying the estrogen signaling pathway as a key target. In vitro, GAA promoted alkaline phosphatase activity, mineral deposition and expressions of phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1/2 (p-ERK1/2), Runt-related transcription factor 2 (RUNX2) and bone morphogenetic protein 2 (BMP2), all of which were abrogated by ICI 182780 and MPP. Notably, molecular interaction studies demonstrated direct and stable binding of GAA to ERα.GAA promotes osteogenic differentiation and accelerates OF healing via ERα.The work offers a conceptual advance by identifying a fungal-derived small molecule that functions as an ERα ligand to promote fracture repair, supporting its potential as a therapeutic candidate for OF.© 2026 The Authors.
DLL4-NOTCH1 signaling mediates juxtacrine communication between tip- and stalk-like endothelial cells during vascular sprouting, contributing to complementary aspects of endothelial function. Thus, simultaneous modulation of DLL4 and NOTCH1 may provide a strategy to broadly interfere with the endothelial functions involved in tumor angiogenesis. Accordingly, this study aimed to identify a novel natural compound capable of modulating DLL4-NOTCH1-mediated endothelial communication and to investigate how such modulation influences tumor angiogenesis and growth.We screened 66 natural compounds to identify those that suppress DLL4 and NOTCH1 signaling in endothelial cells. Using a dual-reporter system that combines a DLL4 promoter-driven reporter and a CSL luciferase reporter, we simultaneously assessed ligand-associated activity and downstream transcriptional output of the DLL4-NOTCH1 axis. We confirmed VEGF-induced target gene expression via Western blotting and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. We further performed in vitro angiogenesis assays and in vivo Lewis lung carcinoma (LLC) allograft tumor experiments.Among the 66 screened natural compounds, para-coumaric acid (p-CA) dose-dependently suppressed DLL4 transcription and NOTCH1 signaling activity in endothelial cells, with IC50 values of 4.57 and 8.34 µm, respectively. Furthermore, p-CA significantly suppressed VEGF-induced endothelial cell proliferation, migration, and tube formation. In the LLC allograft model, p-CA treatment suppressed tumor growth and vascular density, increased pericyte coverage, reduced tumor hypoxia, and enhanced CD3+ T-cell infiltration and tumor cell apoptosis.In summary, p-CA is a natural compound that functionally suppresses VEGF-driven DLL4-NOTCH1 signaling in endothelial cells, exhibiting strong anti-angiogenic effects and promoting functional vascular normalization, resulting in marked tumor suppression and enhanced antitumor immunity in vivo. These findings suggest that p-CA warrants further investigation as an anti-angiogenic compound for cancer therapy.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Tumor-induced manipulations of myelomonocytic differentiation have been widely reported. Here, we describe the elicitation of a tumor-supportive cell type in a T lymphoma model in mice. We observed that the development of T lymphoma coincided with the appearance of a lymphoma-associated monocytic cell type (LAM) of host origin accompanied by a diminished dendritic cell (DC) population. RNA-sequencing and cytometric analyses revealed that LAMs shared markers with both DCs and with resident macrophages, most closely resembling monocyte-derived DCs (moDCs). The numbers of T lymphoma cells were negatively affected by reducing LAMs suggesting a helper function of LAMs for tumor growth. LAMs expressed Notch ligands, and treatments of lymphoma-carrying mice with Notch signaling-inhibitors LY3039478 and DAPT selectively decreased expansions of T lymphomas with or without Notch1 mutations, respectively. Mature LAMs did not proliferate in the periphery. Instead, their expansion resulted from altered myelomonocytic differentiation in the bone marrows of lymphoma-carrying mice with increases in common monocyte/DC precursors but with reduced granulocyte, monocyte and DC precursor populations. These data suggest that developing T lymphomas are capable of reprogramming monocyte/DC differentiation to increase the numbers of a tumor-promoting DC type, attract it to tumor locations and may engage in Notch ligand-dependent signaling to support lymphoma survival.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42545144 is a review article
This study aimed to investigate the mechanism by which Xinfeng Capsules(XFC), a traditional Chinese medicine preparation, ameliorates interstitial lung disease(ILD) in adjuvant arthritis(AA) model rats. It exerts the effect by regulating the adsorption of microRNA155(miR155) by metastasis-associated lung adenocarcinoma transcript 1(MALAT1), thereby ameliorating the abnormal expression of miR155 and subsequently modulating the neurogenic locus Notch homolog protein(Notch)-recombination signal binding protein for immunoglobulin kappa J region(RBP-Jκ) signaling pathway. An AA rat model was established, and after intragastric administration of XFC, pharmacodynamic evaluation was conducted on rats in each group, including arthritis index scoring, paw swelling measurement, pulmonary function test, and histopathological examinations of lung tissue and ankle joint synovium. ELISA was used to detect the levels of related inflammatory cytokines. RT-qPCR was performed to determine the expression levels of long non-coding RNA(lncRNA) MALAT1, miR155 and genes related to the Notch-RBP-Jκ signaling pathway, while Western blot was applied to examine the protein expression of ETS transcription factor-1(ETS-1) and RBP-Jκ. The results showed that, compared with the model group, XFC significantly improved pulmonary function, alleviated paw swelling, and inhibited fibrous hyperplasia and inflammatory cell infiltration in synovial and lung tissue of AA rats. It also reduced the serum levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor-α(TNF-α), interleukin-1β(IL-1β) and interleukin-6(IL-6), thereby alleviating the systemic inflammatory responses. In addition, XFC ameliorated the aberrant expression of lncRNA MALAT1 and miR155, inhibited the transcription of Notch homolog 1(Notch1), Jagged canonical Notch ligand 1(Jagged1), nuclear factor of activated T cells cytoplasmic 1(NFATC1) and interferon regulatory factor 8(IRF8), and further promoted the protein expression of ETS-1 while suppressing RBP-Jκ protein expression. In summary, XFC may exert its effects by enhancing the roles of lncRNA MALAT1 as a molecular sponge to adsorb miR155, thereby inhibiting the aberrant expression of miR155, which in turn modulates the overactivation and transcription of the Notch-RBP-Jκ signaling pathway, suppresses the articular inflammatory response and ameliorates ILD lesions in AA rats.
This study aimed to explore the mechanism by which psoralen regulates the neurogenic gene homologous protein(Notch)/zinc-finger transcription factors(Snail) pathway to inhibit liver metastasis of colorectal cancer. SW480 cells were allocated into a blank control group, low-, medium-, and high-concentration psoralen groups, and a high-concentration psoralen + Notch activator(Jagged1) group. The cell migration, invasion, mRNA levels of matrix metalloproteinase(MMP)-2, MMP-9, epithelial cadherin(E-cadherin), neural cadherin(N-cadherin), and protein levels of Notch1 and Snail were measured. Mice were assigned into a normal group, a model group, low-, medium-, and high-dose psoralen groups, a 5-fluorouracil(5-FU) group, and a high-dose psoralen + Jagged1 group, with 12 mice in each group. Liver metastasis in mice was examined via in vivo imaging. The liver weight, number of surface nodules, liver tissue pathology, and the above mRNA and protein levels were examined. The safety of psoralen was evaluated. The results showed that compared with the blank control group, psoralen decreased the scratch healing rate, number of invasive cells, mRNA levels of MMP-2, MMP-9, and N-cadherin, and protein levels of Notch1 and Snail, while increasing the mRNA level of E-cadherin in a concentration-dependent manner. In animal experiments, compared with the model group, the low-, medium-, and high-dose psoralen groups and the 5-FU group showed alleviated pathological damage in the liver tissue, reduced region of interest(ROI) values of liver fluorescence area, liver weight, number of surface nodules, mRNA levels of MMP-2, MMP-9, and N-cadherin, and protein levels of Notch1 and Snail but increased mRNA level of E-cadherin. Moreover, psoralen functioned in a dose-dependent manner. Jagged1 reversed the inhibitory effect of high-dose psoralen on liver metastasis of colorectal cancer in mice. Psoralen did not cause significant toxicity to hematopoietic, liver, or kidney functions at the tested doses. In conclusion, psoralen may inhibit liver metastasis of colorectal cancer by suppressing the Notch/Snail pathway.
Although cullin-family E3 ubiquitin ligases regulate diverse oncogenic pathways, the role of CACUL1 in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains poorly characterized.We performed pan-cancer expression and survival analysis using TCGA and GEO databases, validated findings through immunohistochemistry, and conducted functional studies in HCC cell lines using CRISPR-mediated CACUL1 knockout. Transcriptome sequencing, functional assays (CCK-8, wound-healing, transwell invasion), and single-cell RNA-sequencing were performed to elucidate mechanisms.Pan-cancer analysis identified CACUL1 overexpression in HCC and gastric cancer (P < 0.001), with prognostic significance in 16 tumor types, including HCC (log-rank P < 0.01). CACUL1 expression independently predicted poor HCC prognosis (multivariable Cox, P < 0.05) and correlated with advanced clinicopathological features and reduced immune checkpoint expression. CACUL1 knockout inhibited HCC cell proliferation and migration but not invasion, with transcriptomic analysis revealing PI3K/AKT signaling pathway enrichment. Co-culture experiments demonstrated that CACUL1 promotes M2 macrophage polarization through Notch1 suppression, with pharmacological Notch inhibition phenocopying this effect.CACUL1 functions as a dual-axis oncogenic driver in HCC through enhanced tumor cell proliferation associated with PI3K/AKT signaling and immune evasion via Notch1-dependent macrophage polarization, positioning it as a candidate prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Tan, Wang and Kong.
Acute pancreatitis (AP) is a digestive system disorder characterized by overactivation of pancreatic enzymes within the pancreas, leading to severe pathological features. M1 macrophage activation and subsequent pro-inflammatory responses are essential in AP development. Investigating macrophage polarization during AP can help further elucidate the pathogenesis of AP and provide theoretical foundations and therapeutic strategies for AP. In this study, we found that FCER1G expression and Notch1 activity were up-regulated in LPS-induced M1 macrophages. FCER1G and Notch1 knockdown could inhibit LPS-induced inflammation in M1 macrophages and pancreatic acinar cell (PAC) damage, indicating the vital functions of FCER1G and Notch1 in M1 macrophage polarization. Further research indicated that FCER1G promotes M1 macrophage polarization and PAC damage by regulating, rather than enhancing, interactions with Notch1 in LPS-induced M1 macrophages. Finally, we showed that inhibition of FCER1G could alleviate AP injury through the Notch1 pathway in mice, providing a novel intervention target for AP therapy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The tumour microenvironment (TME) of relapsed/refractory (R/R) diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) patients is associated with resistance of DLBCL cells to CD19 CAR-T cells. How to improve TME in DLBCL and improve the efficacy of CAR-T cell therapy remains to be further explored. We observed the sensitivity of HBL-1/U2932 cells pretreated with BTK inhibitors (BTKi) to CAR-T cells with flow cytometry (FCM). The effect of pretreatment of BTKi on the polarisation state of alternative activated M2 macrophages was observed with FCM, real-time PCR and Western blot method. The effect of Notch1 agonist on expressions of Arg-1 protein, iNOS protein, Notch1 protein and RBP-J protein in alternative activated M2 macrophages was observed by Western blot method. Then the expression consistency of Notch-1 and RBP-J in activated M2 macrophages was observed by siRNA transfection of Notch-1. The cytotoxicity of CD19 CAR-T cells on HBL-1/U2932 cells pretreated with ibrutinib/orelabrutinib was higher than that of HBL-1/U2932 cells unpretreated with ibrutinib/orelabrutinib. Cytotoxicity of CAR-T cells to HBL-1 cells in coculture system with alternative activated M2 macrophages was very low. This drug resistance could be reversed by replacing the M2 macrophages (M2 macrophages after 48 h pretreatment with BTKi) in coculture system. Pretreatment with BTKi could down-regulate the expression of CD206 and IL-10 in activated M2 macrophages. And pretreatment with BTKi down-regulated the expression of Arg-1 and upregulated the expression of iNOS in activated M2 macrophages. The upregulation polarisation of M2 macrophages by Notch1 agonist could be reversed by BTKi. Expression of RBP-J protein decreased in alternative activated M2 macrophages by siRNA silencing Notch 1. Pretreatment with BTKi could down-regulate the polarisation of M2 macrophages and reverse the resistance of DLBCL cells which were cocultured with alternative activated M2 macrophages to CAR-T cells. This effect might be achieved by downregulating the Notch-RBP-J pathway.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Highly conserved vertebrate molecular markers, such as Gfra1, Pou5f3, Notch1, Plzf, and Nanos2, represent important candidates for evaluating spermatogonial stem cells (SSCs) physiology and preferential location in the fish testis. In tilapia, germ cell cysts are distributed within seminiferous tubules oriented along the dorso-ventral axis, while the adult testis continues to grow along both the longitudinal (cranio-caudal) and dorso-ventral axes. Herein we investigated the spatial distribution of undifferentiated spermatogonia (Aund) expressing established SSC-associated markers in the testes of sexually mature Nile tilapia. Topographical analysis along the longitudinal axis showed that Aund were predominantly located in regions of the seminiferous tubules adjacent to the interstitial compartment, with approximately 53% of Aund in the caudal region and 18% in the cranial region of the testis. Accordingly, most Aund positive for Gfra1, Plzf, and Nanos2 (>70%; p<0.05) were preferentially detected in the caudal region. Analysis along the dorso-ventral axis showed that Aund positive for Plzf, Gfrα1, Nanos2, Nanos1, Notch1, and Notch3 were more frequently observed in areas closer to the tunica albuginea compared with regions adjacent to the efferent ducts. Together, these findings demonstrate pronounced regional differences in the distribution of Aund along both the cranio-caudal and dorso-ventral axes of the Nile tilapia testis, highlighting a spatially organized germinal architecture that may be relevant for the maintenance of the germinal epithelium and post-pubertal testicular growth. To our knowledge, this is the first study to systematically describe the spatial distribution of Aund-associated markers in a teleost species.Copyright © The Author(s).
Clinically relevant NOTCH1 activation is frequently observed in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), even in the absence of gene mutations, raising questions about the underlying mechanisms. In CLL cells, NOTCH1 activation may occur through mutation-independent mechanisms involving ligand interaction or cell-intrinsic, ligand-independent pathways that are not yet fully elucidated. To explore ligand-independent activation, we examined the involvement of NOTCH1 endocytic trafficking in generating the active intracellular domain (N1-ICD) in CLL cells. Using proximity ligation assay, we demonstrated that the NOTCH1 extracellular domain (N1-ECD), transmembrane subunit (N1-TM), and N1-ICD colocalize with Rab5 and Rab7, indicating NOTCH1 internalization and cleavage within endosomal compartments. Experiments with the endocytosis inhibitor Pitstop-2 demonstrated that NOTCH1 internalization is essential for N1-ICD generation. We provided evidence that N1-ICD generation occurs in Rab5 and Rab7 endosomal membranes. Treatment with chloroquine reduced N1-ICD, due to impaired endosomal acidification affecting enzymatic activity. Presenilin-1, the catalytic subunit of the γ-secretase complex responsible for N1-ICD generation, was found in early endosome compartments and colocalized with Rab5, Rab7, N1-TM, and N1-ICD. CLL cells expressing N1-ICD showed higher Rab5, Rab7, and presenilin-1 levels, increased Rab5 membrane association, and presenilin-1 activity versus N1-ICD-negative cells which showed increased lysosomal targeting. Silencing Rab5 or Rab7 by siRNA, or inhibiting Rab prenylation with psoromic acid, led to reduced N1-ICD levels and increased apoptosis in CLL cells. Interestingly, NOTCH1-mutated cases showed similar NOTCH1 trafficking. These findings identify for the first time a Rab-dependent endocytic trafficking as a key regulator of NOTCH1 activation and a potential therapeutic target in CLL.© 2026 The Author(s). HemaSphere published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of European Hematology Association.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42561665 is a review article
Acne inversa, or hidradenitis suppurativa, is a chronic inflammatory skin disorder that causes painful and reoccurring abscesses. The PSEN1 gene is responsible for the sequence coding for the presenilin 1 protein, which is part of the gamma-secretase complex and is responsible for cleaving multiple peptides. Acne inversa occurs when the Notch signaling pathway of PSEN1 is disrupted. Analysis of multiple pathogenicity predictors and simulated aqueous environments of the transmembrane protein in its native state and mutated state through molecular dynamics simulation predicted deleterious effects from swap of tyrosine to cysteine at the highly conserved and buried position 189.Copyright: © 2026 by the authors.
Cerebral Small vessel disease (cSVD) is a prevalent feature of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology. Whether this pathology is a late consequence of amyloid and tau accumulation or an early, direct effect of PSEN1 dysfunction has remained unresolved. We found that it is more severe in familial AD (FAD) caused by E280A mutation in presenilin 1 (PSEN1). These cases present with a distinctive proteomic signature, associated with pathological features, more dysregulated in the occipital cortex (OC) compared to the frontal cortex (FC), and characterized by multiple dysregulated proteins involved in extracellular matrix (ECM) and RNA-associated processes. This proteomic fingerprint was associated with abnormal collagen build up, ECM disorganization, and signatures of aberrant angiogenesis. Six months old transgenic knock-in mice homozygous for Psen1 E280A mutation (PSEN1Ki) also showed a similar phenotype with microvascular tortuosity and proteomic changes. Critically, these mice develop neither Aβ plaques nor tau tangles, indicating that the shared microvascular and RNA-associated changes are direct consequences of PSEN1 dysfunction rather than downstream effects of amyloid pathology. Remarkably, dysregulated RNA-associated protein networks overlapped between FAD and PSEN1Ki mice. Cerebral microvessels microstructure in PSEN1Ki mice at two months and six months showed abnormal astrocytic end-feet with lamellar deposits implicating blood-brain barrier damage. Finally, single nuclei transcriptomic analysis of AD patients and controls showed similar abnormal astrocytes in both sporadic and familial variants, but FAD astrocytes expressed dysregulated genes identified in the proteomic analyses, such as GLUL, APOE, and CLU. Our findings suggest that cSVD is an early pathological event in PSEN1 FAD and that is driven by abnormal RNA-associated processes and astrocytic dysfunction.
Dysfunctional mitophagy is proposed as a key component of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology, yet direct in vivo evidence and mechanistic insights are still lacking. Here we show that AD model mice expressing a mitophagy reporter (APP/PSEN1/mt-Keima) develop large accumulation of acidic and neutral mitochondria within neuronal processes that form a previously unrecognized pathological structure termed mitochondrial plaques (MPs). The development of MPs is driven by abnormal mitochondrial buildup and lysosomal recruitment occurs as a delayed response to promote mitochondrial degradation. However, degradation through mitophagy is incomplete due to impaired lysosomal functions, resulting in accumulation of both neutral and acidic mitochondria. MPs frequently codevelop with amyloid to form mixed plaques but can also emerge independently at early stages of disease. Notably, MPs were also identified in the 5xFAD AD mouse model and postmortem human AD brains. These findings establish MPs as a new pathological entity in AD.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature America, Inc.
Alzheimer's disease is characterized by profound disturbances in brain lipid metabolism, which regulate membrane integrity, connectivity, immune response, and cell survival. However, the mechanisms by which the protective APOE3 Christchurch variant modulates lipid homeostasis in autosomal dominant AD remain poorly understood. Here, we investigated lipid changes in postmortem brains carriers of PSEN1-E280A mutation, including APOE3Ch variant. Using a multimodal approach integrating thin-layer chromatography lipid profiling, enzymatic activity assays, digital PCR, immunofluorescence, flow cytometry, and single-nucleus RNA sequencing, we characterized lipid composition and transcriptional expression in the cerebral cortex. Familial and sporadic AD brains exhibited extensive remodeling of lipid pathways, including depletion of structural phospholipids and marked alterations in sphingolipid metabolism. Notably, APOE3Ch carriers displayed reduced cholesterol and phospholipid content, preservation of ceramide pools, and enrichment of specific ganglioside fractions, accompanied by increased sphingomyelinase activity and coordinated downregulation of genes involved in sphingolipid biosynthesis and remodeling. Single-nucleus transcriptomic analyses further revealed cell-type-specific alterations across glial populations, including reduced pruning of differentiated oligodendrocytes and suppression of lipid metabolic process in astrocytes and microglia. Together, these findings suggest that APOE3Ch promotes a reduced de novo biosynthesis of cholesterol and a distinct sphingolipid metabolic state characterized by enhanced lipid recycling, potentially attenuating lipid-driven neuroinflammatory responses.
Diabetes-associated cognitive decline (DACD) represents a complex disorder arising from the intersection of metabolic dysfunction, neuroinflammation, and neurodegenerative signaling. Despite increasing clinical recognition, the molecular network governing DACD remains poorly defined, and a systems-level network pharmacology approach has not previously been applied to this condition. Curcumin-indole-3-propionic acid conjugate (CUR-IPA), developed from two bioactive neuroprotective scaffolds, offers a rational multi-target framework to modulate DACD-associated pathways. DACD-related genes were compiled and analyzed using protein-protein interaction networks, hub gene identification, and pathway enrichment analysis. Drug-likeness and ADMET properties of CUR, IPA, and CUR-IPA were predicted in silico. Molecular docking was performed against prioritized targets, followed by 200-ns molecular dynamics simulations. Protein-ligand stability and dynamics were assessed using RMSD, RMSF, DCCM, elastic network model, and Markov state model analyses. Binding energetics were quantified using MM-PBSA calculations with residue-level decomposition. Network pharmacology identified PSEN1 and TGFβ1 as central hub proteins linking amyloid regulation, neuronal maintenance, immune signaling, and metabolic pathways in DACD. CUR-IPA satisfied multiple drug-likeness filters and exhibited favorable pharmacokinetic and toxicity profiles. Docking and MD simulations demonstrated stable binding of CUR-IPA within the active sites of PSEN1 and TGFβ1. ENM revealed restricted collective motions around ligand-binding regions, while MSM analysis identified energetically favorable and kinetically stable conformational states. MM-PBSA calculations confirmed strong binding affinities driven by key catalytic residues. This study establishes the first network pharmacology framework for DACD and demonstrates that CUR-IPA acts as a stable, multi-target modulator of key neurodegenerative and metabolic pathways.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is neurodegenerative disorder characterized by deposition of Aβ plaques, tau-positive neurofibrillary tangles, neuroinflammation and clinical dementia. Epidemiological and experimental evidence suggest that peripheral immune inflammation is a risk factor for age-related neurodegeneration but whether its sustained activation is sufficient to drive behavioural, molecular and cellular changes consistent with AD-associated neurodegenerative vulnerability remains unclear. Here we investigated whether prenatal immune stimulation followed by an adult systemic re-challenge with Polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid (Poly(I:C)) induces persistent cognitive/motivational/social deficits and hippocampal neurodegeneration in wild-type mice, consistent with long-lasting neuroimmune priming mechanism(s).Pregnant C57Bl/6J dams received intravenously Poly(I:C) at gestational day 17 and male offspring received intraperitoneal Poly(I:C) at 9 months (single- or double-hit design) and were analyzed at 12 months. Recognition memory, working memory, reward-related learning, and social interaction were assessed followed by hippocampal Western blotting and immunofluorescence.Poly(I:C)-exposed mice exhibited impaired recognition and working memory, reduced palatable food-induced conditioned place preference, and blunted social investigation. These behavioral abnormalities were accompanied by increased amyloidogenic APP processing (BACE1/PSEN1 upregulation and β-CTF accumulation), tau dysregulation (AT8 hyperphosphorylation), microglial activation (Iba1/CD68 upregulation and process retraction), synaptic alterations (α-synuclein reduction), and bioenergetic impairment (reduced mitochondrial and glycolytic markers) in the hippocampus.Overall, these findings indicate that repeated prenatal and postnatal peripheral activation of innate immunity may act as a contributing factor to neurodegenerative phenotype with features relevant to AD-related susceptibility, paving the way for the development of next-generation therapeutical interventions affecting systemic-to-brain inflammatory signaling.Copyright © 2026 Giacovazzo, Latina, Yurtsever, Piccolino, Iannuzzi, Bossù, Amadoro and Coccurello.
SARS-CoV-2 infection leads to extrapulmonary complications in multiple organs, including the brain, both in the short-term and long-term. The neurological manifestation of SARS-CoV-2 infection ranges from benign signs like loss of smell and loss of taste to severe complications like encephalitis, stroke, and exacerbation of Alzheimer's disease (AD) progression. Pericytes are mural cells of the brain vasculature that help maintain the blood-brain barrier (BBB), regulate cerebral blood flow (CBF), modulate neuroinflammation, and clear toxic materials, including amyloid beta. Pericytes express ACE2, the receptor for SARS-CoV-2, and therefore may be targeted by either direct virus infection or virus-induced inflammatory cytokines induced by the virus in the brain. To further study the effects of SARS-CoV-2 on pericytes and BBB integrity, the long-term effects of SARS-CoV-2 infection on brain pericytes, inflammation, and other neuropathological complications were analyzed in mice. K18 (human ACE2 transgenic) mice were infected with 103 PFU of SARS-CoV-2 (delta strain), and the brains were analyzed at 6, 14, and 30 days post-infection (dpi). A significant reduction in the weight of infected mice was observed by 6 dpi. Viral nucleocapsid protein and infectious SARS-CoV-2 were observed in the brains of all mice by 6 dpi, and in some mice by 14 dpi, but not at 30 dpi. This observation suggests viral neurotropism with subsequent clearance at later timepoints. Despite virus clearance, the levels of inflammatory mediators, including TNF-α and IFN-γ were significantly elevated up to 30 dpi. We also observed a significant reduction in the level of brain pericytes by 14 dpi up to 30 dpi. Importantly, an increase was observed in the level of Friend Leukemia Integration 1 (FLI-1), a transcription factor known to promote pericyte cell death, from 14 dpi up to 30 dpi. The level of amyloid beta 1-42 was elevated in the brain of infected mice at 6 dpi, and this was maintained up to 30 dpi, and there was a decrease in neuronal density from 14 to 30 dpi. Furthermore, we observed an increased expression of Alzheimer's disease (AD)-associated genes like PSEN1, BACE1, and APP. Furthermore, there was increased activation of several neurodegenerative pathways, including "G alpha (z) signaling pathway", "Apelin muscle signaling pathway", and "G beta-gamma (Gβγ) signaling", in the brains of infected mice compared to control mice. Collectively, the observed neuropathology and unique molecular markers of neurodegenerative disease progression provide a novel mechanism by which COVID-19 may promote dementia/AD by contributing to pericyte loss and BBB dysfunction during infection.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a multifactorial disease with mixed pathologies. Consequentially, drugs targeting multiple pathological processes may offer synergistic benefits. While histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors have demonstrated efficacy in alleviating AD-related pathologies in animal models, the neuroprotective Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway remains compromised in AD brain. CI-994 is a class I HDAC inhibitor containing N-(2-aminophenyl)-benzamide. Our recent studies indicate that CI-994 is also an activator of Wnt/β-catenin signaling by stabilizing Wnt co-receptor LRP6. We herein use CI-994 as a scaffold to develop novel potent dual modulators of class I HDACs and Wnt/β-catenin signaling for AD therapy. Our lead compound, W2A-28, selectively inhibits class I HDAC1, 2 and 3 with IC50 values of 0.51 μM, 0.68 μM and 0.22 μM, respectively, and shows no inhibitory activities on other HDACs. Furthermore, W2A-28 potently activates Wnt reporter activity with an EC50 value of 1.61 μM in Wnt-3A-expressing HEK293 cells. As expected, activation of Wnt/β-catenin signaling by W2A-28 is associated with elevated LRP6 protein level. Importantly, W2A-28 displays excellent microsomal stability in both mouse and human liver microsomal stability assays, alongside high permeability and a lack of active efflux in MDR1-MDCKII models. Critically, W2A-28 treatment significantly enhances histone acetylation, activates Wnt/β-catenin signaling, suppresses tau phosphorylation, and reduces Aβ levels in AD patient-specific cerebral organoids carrying APOE ε4/ε4 or APOE ε3/ε4 with PSEN1 M146V mutation. Our findings position W2A-28 as a promising multi-target drug candidate for AD therapy.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42488555 is a review article
Neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), and Huntington's disease (HD), are progressive disorders with limited therapeutic options. Centella asiatica (C. asiatica), a medicinal and edible plant, has been reported to exert neuroprotective and anti-neuroinflammatory properties. Yet, the mechanisms underlying its effects against neurodegenerative diseases remain largely unclear.We employed an integrative strategy combining network pharmacology, transcriptomic analyses, machine learning and molecular docking to prioritize disease-associated molecular networks and candidate compound-target relationships in AD, PD and HD.Sixteen candidate constituents of C. asiatica met the predefined drug-likeness, gastrointestinal absorption and blood-brain barrier permeability criteria, yielding 370 unique predicted targets. Disease-gene mining identified 983 AD-associated genes, 1,103 PD-associated genes, and 3,316 HD-associated genes. Integration of compound targets, disease-associated genes, and transcriptomic profiles prioritized five hub genes in PD (CCKAR, MAPK8, PSEN2, SLC6A3, and TH), four in AD (APP, PGK1, PIK3CA, and TTR), and four in HD (CHRND, HSP90AA1, PRKCQ, and TH). Enrichment analyses highlighted disease-relevant processes involving neurotransmitter signalling, cAMP and calcium pathways, MAPK-related responses and inflammatory regulation. ROC analyses provided additional support for the discriminatory performance of the prioritized genes in independent datasets, whereas molecular docking identified favourable predicted Vina docking scores and structurally plausible interactions between selected compounds and hub targets.This integrative computational analysis prioritizes candidate C. asiatica constituents, putative disease-associated targets, and molecular pathways in AD, PD, and HD. The findings provide a foundation for subsequent biochemical, cellular, and in vivo validation.Copyright: © 2026 Xie et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Tau pathology is a central hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and strongly correlates with cognitive decline, yet the development of tau-targeted therapies has been hindered by the inability of existing models to capture human-specific disease features, particularly the mature forms of AD tau pathology. Moreover, species-specific mechanisms underlying tau pathology remain poorly understood. Here, we establish a patient-derived tau-seeded human neuronal chimera model by transplanting human pluripotent stem cell (hPSC)-derived neural progenitor cells into neonatal mouse brains, followed by intracerebral injection of pathological tau seeds from postmortem AD brains. Human neurons matured in vivo and recapitulated adult human tau features, including all six isoforms with an approximately 1:1 3R:4R ratio. Upon seeding, aged human neurons without FTD mutations faithfully developed robust, mature AD tau pathology, including neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) and neuropil threads composed of paired helical filaments (PHFs) and straight filaments (SFs) containing 3R and 4R tau, closely mirroring advanced-stage AD. This pathology accumulated and spread across anatomically connected regions, accompanied by neurodegeneration, elevated plasma pTau-217, and memory deficits. Strikingly, tau pathology was largely restricted to human neurons, revealing a pronounced human-specific vulnerability. Mechanistically, snRNA-seq showed that human neurons exhibited higher basal expression of tau-uptake genes and widespread synaptic suppression following tau exposure, whereas mouse neurons remained transcriptomically resilient. Finally, the familial AD mutation PSEN2 N141I exacerbated tau pathology and synaptic loss in human neurons. Together, this model recapitulates the molecular, structural, and functional hallmarks of mature AD tau pathology in human neurons in vivo and reveals intrinsic, species-specific vulnerability, providing a human-relevant in vivo platform for mechanistic studies and therapeutic development.
Mutations in the PSEN1, PSEN2, and APP genes are known to cause Alzheimer's disease (AD). Among these, PSEN1 mutations are the most frequent causes of autosomal dominant early-onset AD (EOAD). Patients harboring pathogenic mutations often exhibit considerable clinical heterogeneity. Identifying novel mutations and analyzing their associations with clinical cases is crucial for advancing our understanding of the pathogenesis of AD.This report describes the clinical presentation of a family with EOAD. The proband was a 43-year-old Chinese female who presented with a three-year history of cognitive decline for 3 years. Magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated diffuse cerebral cortical atrophy. Next-generation sequencing identified a novel heterozygous c.668A>T mutation in PSEN1, which resulted in a p.Gln223 Leu. cerebrospinal fluid biomarker analysis revealed abnormal levels of amyloid and tau, indicative of underlying Alzheimer's pathology. Furthermore, 18F-flortaucipir (AV-1451) positron emission topography and 18F-florbetapir (AV-45) positron emission topography imaging demonstrated extensive cerebral amyloid beta and tau deposition.We report a novel pathogenic PSEN1 mutation, Q223 L, identified for the first time in a Chinese family with EOAD.©Author(s) 2026.
Neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's disease (PD) arise from interconnected mechanisms including mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress, neuroinflammation, and impaired protein homeostasis, leading to progressive dopaminergic neuron loss and limited benefit from current single target therapies. Parkin (PARK2), an E3 ubiquitin ligase central to mitochondrial quality control and mitophagy, has therefore emerged as an attractive therapeutic node, with its functional stabilization representing a promising strategy to restore mitochondrial homeostasis in PD. In this study, phytocompounds from Althaea officinalis were evaluated using an integrated in silico pipeline combining ADMET prediction, molecular docking, 100 ns molecular dynamics simulations, MM-GBSA binding free energy analysis, and network pharmacology to identify potential PARK2 modulating lead compounds relevant to Parkinson's disease. Forty bioactive constituents were screened, and computational ADMET modeling highlighted flavonoids and coumarin derivatives such as scopolin, astragalin, isoquercitrin, and quercetin derivatives as having acceptable oral absorption, limited predicted toxicity, and low risk of major metabolic or cardiotoxic liabilities. Structure-based docking against PARK2 (PDB ID: 5C23) revealed that several A. officinalis metabolites, notably scopolin, β-D-glucose, quercetin-3-glucoside, and L-arabinose, exhibit favorable binding affinities (docking scores - 7.232 to - 6.648 kcal/mol) and form energetically stable complexes with key catalytic and regulatory residues, in some cases outperforming co-crystal ligand. Subsequent 100 ns molecular dynamics simulations confirmed that the scopolin- and quercetin-3-glucoside-PARK2 complexes remain structurally stable, with low RMSD fluctuations, compact Rg profiles, and persistent hydrogen-bonding, while MM-GBSA calculations yielded consistently favorable ΔGbind values, further supporting their high-affinity interaction with PARK2. Network pharmacology analysis further showed that these phytochemicals converge on core PD-related targets such as AKT1, PIK3R1, MAPT, SNCA, PSEN2, BCL2L1, HK1, RPS6KA3, TLR1, and TLR2 within PI3K-Akt, MAPK, mTOR, HIF-1, autophagy, apoptosis, insulin, Toll-like receptor, and Parkinson disease pathways, indicating a multi-target, multi-pathway mode of action. Overall, the findings suggest that A. officinalis phytocompounds especially scopolin and quercetin glycosides possess drug-like ADMET properties, strong PARK2 binding, MD-validated complex stability with favorable MM-GBSA binding energies, and systems-level engagement with PD-relevant signaling networks, supporting their candidacy as plant-derived leads for PARK2-centered therapeutic strategies in PD.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is a prevalent neurodegenerative disorder which involves a complex pathobiology driven by amyloid-beta (Aβ) and tau pathologies, among other factors. Aβ peptides are generated via β-secretase (BACE1) and γ-secretase cleavage of amyloid precursor protein (APP). While long isoforms like Aβ42 are neurotoxic and aggregation-prone, shorter isoforms (Aβ38, Aβ37) are non-amyloidogenic. γ-secretase modulators (GSMs) shift production from longer to shorter peptides which is expected to slow down or halt (prevent) amyloid accumulation and its downstream effects.The novel GSM nivegacetor was evaluated in vitro using cell lines overexpressing human wild-type APP, or human APP with the Swedish mutation K670N/M671L (APPSwe). The in vitro selectivity of nivegacetor was tested on Notch-1, a representative gamma secretase substrate other than APP. Additionally, nivegacetor was profiled for its selectivity on a range of pharmacological targets. In vivo studies tested a dose-response and a time course of nivegacetor on soluble Aβ levels in brain tissue of APPSwe transgenic mice. Furthermore, the impact of two ADAD mutations, PSEN1 E280A (Columbian) and PSEN2 N141I (Volga German), on nivegacetor's potency was tested. Moreover, nivegacetor was tested for possible effects on [3H]florbetaben binding to Aβ plaque pathology in human AD brain tissue sections.Nivegacetor lowered the production of Aβ42 and Aβ40 and concomitantly increased levels of Aβ37 and Aβ38 in vitro and in vivo in mice. Nivegacetor did not inhibit Notch-1 and showed a favorable selectivity profile on a broad range of targets. When tested on two ADAD mutations, nivegacetor was equipotent on the PSEN1 E280A mutation and significantly less potent on the PSEN2 N141I mutation compared to wild-type gamma secretase. Nivegacetor did not interfere with the detection of amyloid plaques by [3H]florbetaben in human AD brain tissue, which is an important prerequisite for the use of florbetaben as a PET tracer in clinical trials.Nivegacetor is a potent, orally bioavailable GSM with favorable properties and is currently under investigation as a clinical candidate in a Phase 2A clinical trial in individuals with prodromal and early sporadic AD, and in a Phase 2 clinical trial in individuals carrying the PSEN1 E280A ADAD mutation.Copyright © 2026 Lindemann, Lambotte, Rothe, Messer, Diener, Pichereau, Cantrill, Mueggler, Honer, Beck, Steinbrecher, Tortelli, Gerlach, Ratni, Rodriguez Sarmiento and Baumann.
Familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD) is a rare form of Alzheimer's. FAD is mainly caused by one or multiple mutations in the genes encoding for amyloid precursor protein (APP), presenilin-1 (PSEN1), and presenilin-2 (PSEN2), with the majority occurring in PSEN1. Despite extensive research in animal models and numerous promising treatment trials, there is still no curative treatment for FAD. Recently, ZL006 (Med Chem Express cat. Number HY-100456) was shown to reduce over-produced nitric oxide and oxidative stress in ischemic stroke and could protect neurons against Aβ1-42-induced neurotoxicity (in vitro study). With this in mind, we tested ZL006 at different doses (10 μM, 25 μM, 50 μM and 100 μM) in zebrafish embryo injected with ctrl-MO and psen1-MO, investigating the effects on pathological phenotype in vivo. We showed that ZL006 exposure suppresses inflammation, oxidative stress and accumulation of Aβ1-42 in psen1-MO. In conclusion, our study showed that ZL006 was able to ameliorate the pathological phenotype of psen1-morphant zebrafish embryos, supporting its potential as a candidate for further investigations in the context of FAD treatment.
Endolysosomal dysfunction has been increasingly implicated in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases. The charged multivesicular body protein 2B (CHMP2B) gene encodes a component of the endosomal sorting complexes required for transport (ESCRT-III), which regulates endosomal trafficking, multivesicular body formation, and autophagosome-lysosome fusion. Mutations in CHMP2B are classically associated with autosomal dominant frontotemporal dementia. Here, we report a 59-year-old woman with biomarker-confirmed Alzheimer disease (AD) (A+T+N+) carrying a heterozygous CHMP2B c.90C>T (p.Ala30Ser) variant identified by targeted exome sequencing after negative testing for APP, APOE, PSEN1, and PSEN2. The patient presented with progressive episodic memory impairment and spatial disorientation over 3 years. Brain MRI showed prominent posterior cortical atrophy, and cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers demonstrated decreased Aβ42 and elevated phosphorylated and total tau levels consistent with AD pathology. Dysfunction of CHMP2B-mediated endolysosomal pathways may impair intracellular protein degradation and influence tau clearance mechanisms. This observation suggests that rare variants in endolysosomal pathway genes may contribute to AD pathophysiology.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.
Most genetic variants associated with complex diseases lie in non-coding regions1, complicating efforts to identify effector genes and relevant cell types. Here we map cis-expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs) across 2.2 million single cells using intestinal biopsies and blood from 421 individuals, including 125 with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Cell-type-level eQTLs were more distal to transcription start sites, enriched in enhancers, less likely to regulate the nearest gene, and more than 3.5-fold more likely to colocalize with IBD loci detected in genome-wide association studies (GWASs) than eQTLs detected at tissue-level resolution. We nominate effector genes at more than half of known IBD loci, including MAML2, PSEN2 and ZMIZ1 in myeloid cells, implicating reduced Notch signalling in intestinal immune dysfunction. We also identify Wnt-regulated genes, including MYC, in epithelial stem and progenitor cells, suggesting that impaired renewal contributes to barrier breakdown. Our results provide a mechanistic map that links genetic risk to specific genes and cell types in IBD, and a generalized framework for interpretation of GWAS loci using single-cell eQTL mapping of disease-relevant tissues in complex diseases.© 2026. The Author(s).
Molecular small cell lung cancer (SCLC) subtypes (ASCL1, NEUROD1, POU2F3, and inflamed) display distinct immune contextures, but preclinical modeling remains limited. We evaluated peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) humanized mice (hu-mice) as a platform to capture subtype-specific tumor-immune interactions and therapeutic sensitivity to the triplet regimen: AZD1390 (ATM inhibitor), radiotherapy (RT), and durvalumab (aPDL1). SCLC cell lines representing all molecular subtypes were engrafted into hu-mice, and while T cell infiltration varied across subtypes, SCLC-inflamed cell lines exhibited the highest levels of infiltration. Infiltrating CD8+ T cells rapidly acquired exhaustion markers PD1, CD39, and TOX. Although aPDL1 monotherapy achieved tumor control only in the inflamed SBC5 cell line, combination AZD1390 and RT upregulated chemokine expression (CCL5 and CXCL10) and increased surface PDL1 to sensitize previously non-responsive xenografts in vivo. Responding xenografts showed enrichment of CD39+CD103+ tumor-reactive T cells with reduced terminal exhaustion (TCF1-TOX+). Overall, PBMC hu-mice may effectively recapitulate SCLC immune contextures and guide development of combinatorial strategies to overcome aPDL1 resistance.© 2026 The Authors.
Stem cell based approaches are increasingly studied as models for understanding neurodegenerative diseases. Despite progress, a unified mechanistic understanding of human iPSCs to neural commitment remains incomplete, due to variability in methodologies and experimental conditions, highlighting the need for a more standardized mechanistic framework. This study investigates the transcriptional landscape and regulatory mechanisms underlying the differentiation of induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) towards neural commitment using three orthogonal methodologies across four scRNA seq datasets. In brief, each dataset was processed through a standard Seurat pipeline followed by identification of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) via the Wilcoxon rank-sum test. The significant transcription factors (TFs) were cross validated against the human TF catalogue and ranked accordingly. We identified 15 TFs up-regulated across datasets, and 54 TFs upregulated in three out of four datasets. Among these, ASCL1 emerged as the top candidate. The downregulation of LIN28A and SOX2 is consistent with silencing of the pluripotency network. The second part of the study involved the construction of a co -expression network through a consensus of the four datasets. The network yielded 24 co-expression modules which prioritised hub transcription factors of neural commitment. Module trait correlations were computed with WGCNA, identifying NCAM1 module as top hub. RTN regulon interference and master regulator analysis was applied as a third analysis method. The intersection resulted in identification of LCOR, MEIS3 and EBF1 as the top intramodular hub genes regulators. Current study offers a comprehensive map of key transcriptional dynamics and regulatory nodes involved in iPSC-to-NSC differentiation. This study offers insights into neural development and identifies prioritised candidates for experimental follow-up.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) hold promise for spinal cord injury (SCI) repair, yet their limited neuronal conversion efficiency restricts therapeutic outcomes. Therefore, this study investigated the role of En2 in regulating the neuronal differentiation of BMSCs and its therapeutic potential in SCI. Here, we demonstrate that Engrailed 2 (En2) markedly enhances the neuronal differentiation of BMSCs and promotes functional recovery after SCI. En2 overexpression increases TUJ1⁺ and MAP2⁺ neuronal populations in vitro, while transcription factor prediction and experimental validation identify ASCL1 as a key downstream target. Silencing ASCL1 significantly impairs En2-induced neuronal differentiation and reduces nuclear β-catenin levels, indicating that En2 regulates BMSC neurogenesis through the ASCL1/β-catenin axis. In vivo, En2-overexpressing BMSCs delivered via HAMA hydrogel survive, differentiate into neurons, improve tissue preservation, and enhance locomotor recovery in rats with SCI, as confirmed by histology, immunofluorescence, BBB scoring, and CatWalk analysis. These findings reveal a previously unrecognized regulatory mechanism whereby En2 drives the neuronal commitment of BMSCs and highlight a promising gene-enhanced stem cell strategy for spinal cord injury repair.
Peripheral nerve injuries often result in prolonged skeletal muscle denervation, leading to progressive atrophy, fibrosis, neuromuscular instability, and loss of regenerative capacity before axons can reinnervate distal targets. Here, we developed a non-viral strategy using tissue nanotransfection (TNT) to deliver the neurogenic transcription factor cocktail Ascl1 , Brn2 , and Myt1l ( ABM ) directly to denervated skeletal muscle. In vitro , ABM -transfected myoblasts sustained expression of the reprogramming factors, acquired neuron-like morphologies, upregulated neuronal markers including Tuj1, Map2, and Syp, and exhibited electrophysiological properties consistent with membrane excitability. RNA sequencing confirmed broad activation of neurogenic transcriptional programs, with enrichment of pathways associated with neuronal fate commitment, neuron differentiation, axon guidance, synaptogenesis, and developmental signaling. In a mouse model of sciatic nerve transection, TNT enabled localized ABM expression in denervated gastrocnemius muscle. ABM -TNT treatment accelerated resolution of denervation-associated fibrillation potentials and showed trends toward improved twitch and tetanic torque, compound muscle action potential amplitudes, and muscle mass preservation. Transcriptomic profiling of treated muscles 5 weeks after injury revealed distinct gene expression programs enriched for muscle regeneration, neuromuscular organization, trophic support, extracellular matrix remodeling, angiogenesis, myogenesis, and metabolic adaptation. Network analyses further identified activation of neurogenic regulators, neurotrophic signaling, and vascular-support pathways. These findings establish TNT-mediated ABM delivery as a non-viral platform for inducing neurogenic and myoprotective programs in denervated muscle, suggesting a potential strategy to preserve muscle viability during the prolonged interval required for peripheral nerve regeneration.
Prostate cancer (PCa) is among the highest incidence malignancies in men, with high rates of inevitable resistance development, relapse, and mortality. Castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) continued to pose substantial therapeutic challenges, highlighting the urgent need for effective treatment options. This study assessed the marine cembranoid sarcophine activity against the progression and recurrence of the metastatic CRPC (mCRPC) in mouse xenograft models. Protein and phosphorylation levels were assessed by immunoblotting and mRNA expression by qPCR and RNA sequencing. The in vivo efficacy was evaluated through tumor progression over 3 weeks followed by primary tumor excision and recurrence monitoring over an 8-week course. Sarcophine significantly reduced the mCRPC CWR-R1ca tumor volume by 74.1% and suppressed the epigenetic regulators EZH2 and SMYD2; lineage plasticity factors ASCL1 and BRN2; Wnt/stemness signaling markers β-catenin and LGR6; AKT total expression and activation; and invasion-associated proteins TRPC4 and MMP2 in primary tumors. Sarcophine effectively prevented the mCRPC locoregional recurrence, as well as lung and spleen distant recurrences, and effectively reduced recurrence in other organs. Transcriptomics-RNA-Seq analysis of primary tumors identified 2697 downregulated and 3534 upregulated genes, indicating broad transcriptional reprogramming following sarcophine treatments. These findings demonstrate coordinated suppression of multi-oncogenic pathways and validate the therapeutic potential of sarcophine to control mCRPC.
Although olfactory dysfunction (OD) is common worldwide, there is insufficient information about its pathophysiology and treatment. Alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (α-MSH) has anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective properties and has been suggested to promote neurogenesis. This study investigated whether α-MSH improves regeneration, inflammatory responses, trophic factor expression, and olfactory behavior in a rat model of intranasal zinc sulfate (ZnSO4) induced peripheral OD. Therefore, male Sprague Dawley rats were assigned to Control, OD, α-MSH, and OD+α-MSH groups and evaluated at days 4 and 21. Olfactory function was assessed using buried food and odor discrimination tests at baseline, after induction, and before euthanasia. Olfactory epithelium (OE) thickness and immunoreactivity for ASCL1, GAP-43, OMP, NGF, BDNF, TNF-α, and IL-10 were analyzed in the OE, olfactory bulb (OB), subventricular zone (SVZ), and hippocampal subgranular zone (SGZ), together with SVZ and SGZ neurogenesis markers (Nestin, ASCL1, DCX, NeuN). ZnSO4 caused a marked reduction in OE thickness and OMP positivity, with increased ASCL1 and GAP-43 at both time points, confirming injury induced regeneration. α-MSH produced limited histological recovery at day 4 but promoted partial restoration of OE thickness and OMP immunoreactivity by day 21 and improved olfactory performance. SVZ neurogenesis markers were unchanged. In the OB, OD increased NeuN + cells, while α-MSH normalized NeuN and partially restored TNF-α and IL-10 expression by day 21. In the SGZ, α-MSH decreased ASCL1+ cells at day 21 without altering other markers. These findings indicate that α-MSH promotes recovery by modulating inflammation and epithelial maturation. It shows promise as a treatment for impaired olfaction.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Human carcinomas often gain aggressive characteristics and escape cell-type specific treatment regimens through cryptic shifts in lineage states. However, the underlying mechanisms that govern lineage plasticity in carcinomas are undefined. Here in this study, we found that PAX5, a neural/lymphatic transcription factor, contributed to neuroendocrine (NE) lineage transition. PAX5 was highly expressed in aggressive human NE carcinoma cells and tissues but not in non-NE cancer cells and tissues. Deletion of Pax5 in Rb1fl/fl;Trp53fl/fl mice caused a reduction of tumor vessels, loss of NE morphologic features and decreased expression of ASCL1, NCAM, and SYP, whereas ectopic expression of PAX5 in CC10-rtTA;TetO-hEGFRex19del/T790M mice adenocarcinomas and in LNCAP prostate cancer xenografts induces an angiogenic microenvironment and NE morphology. Importantly, antiangiogenic drugs reduced NE features of Rb1fl/fl;Trp53fl/fl tumors and blocked PAX5-induced NE transformation. These studies demonstrate an essential role of angiogenic microenvironment in transition/maintenance of NE lineage, suggesting that targeting PAX5 and its downstream signaling may modulate lineage transitions responsible for treatment failure in both SCNCs and adenocarcinomas.
SLFN11, highly expressed in SCLC, predicts sensitivity to DNA-damaging agents. Its role in other lung neuroendocrine neoplasms (NENs) (typical/atypical carcinoids - TC/AC and large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma- LCNEC) is unknown. This multicentre study assessed SLFN11 across lung NENs exploring its clinical-molecular associations.SLFN11 immunohistochemistry (H-score 0-300) was assessed in 361 tumours (127 TC, 35 AC, 152 LCNEC, 47 SCLC). Ki67, pRb, cMYC, DLL3, ASCL1, HNF1a, OTP and NEUROD1, ASCL1, POU2F3, and YAP1 (NAPY; H-score > 50 as dominant subgroup) staining were integrated with clinicopathologic data and survival. Median SLFN11expression (exp) was used for survival analysis.SLFN11exp varied across histologies (p < 0.001), with median values of 0 in TC (range 0-20) and AC (0-40), 2.49 (0-250) in LCNEC, 35 (0-240) in SCLC. SLFN11 showed a positive correlation with Ki67 (R2 = 0.187) across all histologies. In TC/AC, SLFN11exp was enriched in A1 subgroup tumours (known for ASCL1exp) (p = 0.035) and not correlated with OTP, HNF1A, CD44 and SSTR2Aexp. In LCNEC, SLFN11exp was higher in ASCL1high tumors (median 17.2; 0-162.5, p = 0.003) and correlated with cMYCexp (p = 0.024), but not with pRB and DLL3 status. In SCLC, a trend toward higher SLFN11exp in ASCL1high tumours was observed. SLFN11exp was not prognostic in TC/AC or LCNEC. In SCLC, SLFN11exp ≥ median value was associated with improved OS (13.9 vs 6.8 months; HR = 0.48, 95%CI 0.26-0.90, p = 0.020).SLFN11exp in lung NENs is higher in SCLC > LCNEC > TC/AC, and correlated with Ki67. SLFN11exp was associated with ASCL1exp in all lung NENs. SLFN11 role in TC/AC and LCNEC remains to be defined.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42449922 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42449715 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42566383 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42537738 is a review article
Auditory processing is widely understood to occur differently in autism, though the patterns of brain activity underlying these differences are not well understood. The diversity of autism also means brain-wide networks may change in various ways to produce similar behavioral outputs. We used larval zebrafish to investigate auditory habituation in three genetic lines relevant to autism: fmr1, mecp2, and cntnap2 In free-swimming behavioral tests, we found each line had a unique profile of auditory hyper-responsiveness and/or reduced habituation compared to wild types. Combining the optical transparency of larval zebrafish with genetically encoded calcium indicators and light-sheet microscopy, we then observed brain-wide activity at cellular resolution during repeated sound stimuli. Each line showed unique alterations in brain-wide spontaneous activity, auditory processing, and adaptation in response to repetitive acoustic stimuli. We also observed commonalities in activity across our genetic lines that indicate shared circuit changes underlying certain aspects of their behavioral phenotypes. These were predominantly in regions involved in sensory integration and sensorimotor gating rather than primary auditory areas. Overlapping phenotypes include differences in the activity and functional connectivity of the telencephalon, dopaminergic regions, and the locus coeruleus. Unique phenotypes include increased activity in auditory regions and excitatory/inhibitory imbalance in the cerebellum in fmr1, and differences in network activity over time in mecp2 and cntnap2 Comparing these distinct but overlapping brain-wide auditory networks suggests that diverse genetic factors may contribute to similar behavioral effects through a range of circuit- and network-scale mechanisms.Significance statement Wilde et al. compare auditory habituation phenotypes in three genetic zebrafish models of autism. Of particular interest, several lines had overlapping behavioral phenotypes despite distinct patterns of brain-wide activity and network organization. Rather than pointing to a single mechanism underlying altered sensory responses, the data instead suggest there may be multiple neural routes to superficially similar sensory behaviors. This fits with growing discussions in human research that auditory processing in autism is unlikely to reflect one unified phenotype, but instead a diverse set of sensory profiles and underlying neural processes. Comparing across multiple genetic models and levels of neural organization may therefore help strengthen links between mechanistic animal work and the variability described in human sensory research in autism.Copyright © 2026 the authors.
Rett syndrome (RTT) is a severe neurodevelopmental disorder caused by mutations in the MECP2 gene. Although trofinetide is the first FDA-approved drug for RTT, its pharmacological mechanism remains unclear. We present a structure-based in silico workflow that integrates target prediction, molecular docking, and 100 ns molecular dynamics (MD) simulations to prioritize potential RTT-relevant targets. Candidate receptors were ranked using a comparative pleiotropic score (PS), as well as an interaction similarity index (SSI) relative to endogenous substrates and reference modulators. Five targets emerged as high-priority candidates (GAT1, GABAA, CHRM1, AMPA, and GSK3β) and were further examined using MD. The simulations supported several binding hypotheses: (i) stable occupation of the orthosteric site in GAT1 and CHRM1, with persistent contacts with ligand-recognition-associated residues (Tyr60 in GAT1 and Asp105 in CHRM1); (ii) sustained binding within the catalytic cleft of GSK3β with recurrent interactions near key catalytic elements (including Lys85); and (iii) dynamic, surface-associated binding modes in GABAA and AMPA, with peripheral residues. In different targets, the proline fragment frequently contributes to hydrophobic anchoring. Taken together, these results provide testable structural hypotheses for the multi-target interaction of trofinetide in RTT and a computational framework to guide experimental validation and next-generation multi-target design.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Computational Chemistry published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42501228
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42496945
MECP2 duplication syndrome (MDS) is a rare X-linked neurodevelopmental disorder caused by duplications of the dosage-sensitive methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MECP2) gene. Developing therapies for MDS is challenging due to the variability in MECP2 expression among patients and the risk of inducing Rett syndrome through excessive pharmacological intervention. Reducing dosage to optimize silencing often compromises durability and necessitates increased dosing frequency. We present here a series of fully chemically modified small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) designed for isoform-selective and total Mecp2 silencing. Among these, we identify six lead siRNA candidates across two chemical scaffolds, achieving targeted total Mecp2 expression reductions ranging from 25% to 75%, sustained for at least four months following a single administration. The efficacy and safety of human ortholog silencing are evaluated using a mouse model with ~8-fold human Mecp2 transgene expression. In this severe duplication model, a single dose of the total isoform-silencing siRNA rescues early mortality and select behavioral impairments. Overall, this study introduces preclinical candidates for the treatment of MDS. Furthermore, it establishes a target selection strategy applicable to other dosage-sensitive gene imbalances.© 2026. This is a U.S. Government work and not under copyright protection in the US; foreign copyright protection may apply.
Sepsis-associated acute lung injury represents a severe complication. It is characterized by an overwhelming inflammatory response and the disruption of pulmonary barrier function, leading to high morbidity and mortality. Despite advances in supportive care, effective therapeutic strategies remain limited. Mesenchymal stem cells derived from the human chorionic membrane, commonly referred to as HCMSCs, represent a highly promising option in the field of regenerative medicine. This is largely owing to their remarkable abilities to modulate the immune system and repair damaged tissues. Nevertheless, the specific biological processes through which these cells exert their influence on lung injury caused by sepsis, especially regarding the modulation of critical molecular signaling pathways, remain to be fully elucidated. A mouse model of sepsis-induced lung injury was established via intraperitoneal lipopolysaccharide (LPS) injection, while human pulmonary microvascular endothelial cells (HPMECs) were stimulated with LPS to mimic an in vitro model. Following the characterization of HCMSCs, the study evaluated their impact on endothelial cell apoptosis, proliferation, and barrier integrity. Inflammatory responses were quantified by measuring key cytokines. To elucidate the molecular mechanism, the study focused on the interaction between the transcription factor SOX18 and MECP2, which was confirmed using chromatin immunoprecipitation and luciferase reporter assays. Finally, the therapeutic efficacy was validated in mice by assessing lung histopathology, edema, and gene/protein expression. Results showed that HCMSCs successfully differentiated into adipocytes and osteoblasts, as confirmed by positive Oil Red O staining and ALP activity. Treatment with HCMSC-conditioned medium (HCMSCCM) significantly attenuated LPS-induced inhibition of SOX18 expression in HPMECs. LPS-induced HPMEC apoptosis, inflammation, barrier dysfunction and proliferation inhibition were markedly alleviated by HCMSCCM, as evidenced by reduced apoptosis, decreased IL-6, IL-1β, and TNF-α levels, increased number of EdU-positive cells, and restored expression of tight junction proteins (Occludin and ZO-1) along with TER. However, SOX18 knockdown reversed these protective effects. Mechanistically, SOX18 was found to transcriptionally activate MECP2 in HPMECs. HCMSCCM effectively mitigated LPS-induced dysfunction in HPMECs through modulation of the SOX18/MECP2 signaling axis. In vivo, HCMSCCM administration protected against LPS-induced lung injury in mice via regulation of the SOX18/MECP2 axis. In all, HCMSCs exerted protective effects against sepsis-induced lung injury by modulating the SOX18/MECP2 signaling pathway. These findings highlight the therapeutic potential of HCMSCs in treating sepsis-induced lung injury.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Rett syndrome (RTT), a rare neurodevelopmental disorder caused primarily by pathogenic variants in the MECP2 gene, is characterized by severe cognitive, motor, and autonomic impairments. Atypical sensory processing-including co-occurring hypo- and hyper-responsivity-is a core yet poorly understood feature. While evoked potentials (EPs) show delayed and attenuated sensory responses in RTT, the underlying mechanisms of these impairments remain unclear. Inter-trial phase coherence (ITPC), which quantifies trial-by-trial neural response consistency, offers a promising functional biomarker of variability in sensory processing.We characterized caregiver-reported sensory responsivity in 32 individuals with RTT (all female) and 28 typically developing controls (26 female, 2 male). EPs were then recorded during passive visual and auditory stimulation and ITPC was computed to assess whether variability in the timing of neural responses could account for reduced EP amplitudes and atypical sensory responsivity.Hypo- and hyper-responsivity to sensory stimuli were both significantly elevated in RTT and were positively correlated, co-occurring within individuals. ITPC was significantly reduced in RTT across visual and auditory modalities and was associated with reduced EP amplitudes. Notably, reduced ITPC in visual-evoked potentials was further associated with elevated visual responsivity and greater behavioral symptom severity.Increased variability in neural response timing may contribute to both reduced EPs and atypical sensory responsivity in RTT, supporting ITPC as a functional biomarker. Decreased temporal precision of neural activity may explain the co-occurrence of hypo- and hyper-responsivity and provide a unifying framework for sensory dysfunction across neurodevelopmental disorders.
The ability to control the expression of human genes is a major goal in synthetic biology, enables dissection of gene function, and can be harnessed for therapeutic applications. Advances in genome editing and transcriptional engineering often result in complete gene inactivation or full transcriptional repression. However, programmable tools to dial transcription at intermediate levels remain challenging. Here, we present CRISPRtune - a synthetic fusion of MeCP2 to catalytically dead dCas9 that tunes down transcription of endogenous genes in human cells by harnessing the mild repressor activity of MeCP2. Using pooled genome-scale CRISPR screens, we tune the expression of thousands of endogenous genes and define the targeting rules of CRISPRtune in human cells. With a platform to target MeCP2 at defined genomic sites, we show the direct epigenetic changes induced by MeCP2 at gene promoters and we identify its genetic dependency partners for productive transcriptional repression. Rett syndrome-associated mutations of MeCP2 show defects for transcriptional repression due to their failure to remodel the local epigenetic landscape of target genes. Together, we present a programmable method for transcriptional tuning in mammalian cells and offer an orthogonal platform to dissect the mechanistic function of chromatin regulators in living cells.
Though inhibiting the RBPJ transcription complex reduces PD-L1 expression and alleviates T cell dysfunction in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), the tumor immunomodulatory function of RBPJ in T cells is unclear. This study used patient-derived xenograft models to illustrate the role of RBPJ disruption in clinical outcomes and sensitivity to immunotherapy. Immunoprecipitation was performed to identify whether HUWE1 is the E3 ubiquitin ligase for RBPJ. CUT&Tag, ChIP-/ATAC-qPCR, flow cytometry, and CyTOF were used to investigate the molecular mechanism of how RBPJ regulated the function of HCC-infiltrating T cells. Mice with conditional knockout or knock-in of Huwe1 or Rbpj in T cells were used to evaluate their role in the tumor growth. Furthermore, virtual screening, molecular dynamics simulation, immunoprecipitation, and DNA pull-down assays revealed the role of acarbose in RBPJ transcription complex. Our study found that RBPJ expression rose in exhausted T cells, aggravating their exhaustion. Mechanistically, HUWE1 facilitated the K341 ubiquitination of RBPJ through K48 linkage. RBPJ contributed to T cell exhaustion by enhancing the transcription of exhaustion-related genes as a transcription factor, recruiting RUVBL1 to elevate H3K4me3 levels on the promoters of exhaustion-related genes or H3K27ac on their enhancers, and induced the transcription of the KMT2C, thereby increasing H3K4me1 levels on the enhancers of exhaustion-related genes. Furthermore, acarbose-induced damage in the RBPJ transcriptional complex indicated that targeting T cell exhaustion may be a promising HCC treatment. Collectively, our research results indicated that inhibiting the RBPJ in T cells changed the tumor microenvironment from "cold" to "hot".© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to ADMC Associazione Differenziamento e Morte Cellulare.
Stem-cell-based human embryo models offer an ethically tractable platform for studying early human development. This study employs somitoids, three-dimensional models of human somitogenesis, to investigate how transcriptional programs and culture conditions influence somite formation and segmentation. We show that pre-differentiation culture medium impacts the developmental potential of induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs), with StemFit medium and Matrigel embedding outperforming mTeSR Plus medium in generating robust somite-like structures. Strikingly, these differences arise despite only subtle changes in transcriptomic and time-resolved proteomic profiles. P300-based proximity labeling also reveals a largely overlapping set of chromatin-associated regulators across iPSC conditions. In somitoids, enhancer-associated profiling highlights factors linked to somitogenesis, including MESP2 and TBX6. Knockout of three identified regulators, BPTF, RBPJ, and CITED2, demonstrate their essential roles in somite formation. Together, these findings highlight how culture conditions and enhancer-associated networks influence early human development and demonstrate somitoids as a scalable system for functional genomics.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a prevalent functional gastrointestinal disorder with an elusive pathophysiology. Although immune dysregulation and mild mucosal inflammation are recognized as important factors in IBS, the specific contribution of immunosenescence remains unclear. Prior MR studies on IBS focused on single molecular traits; however, an integrated multi-omics framework for aging-immune genes has not been applied. Here, we integrate cis-eQTL/pQTL/mQTL with machine learning and in vivo validation to identify putatively causal biomarkers and unravel the aging-immune axis.Aging- and immune-related genes were curated from published databases and analyzed using genome-wide cis-expression quantitative trait loci (cis-eQTL), cis-protein quantitative trait loci (cis-pQTL), and cis-methylation quantitative trait loci (cis-mQTL) datasets. All QTL data were derived from blood or plasma samples. Candidate genes were identified through integrative multi-omics analysis, followed by functional annotation, machine learning-based feature selection, immune infiltration profiling, and drug-target prediction. The expression of key biomarkers was validated using reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) in colonic tissues from a rat model of diarrhea-predominant IBS (IBS-D).Integrative multi-omics analysis initially identified 34 high-confidence candidate genes. Through multi-algorithm machine learning such as least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO), support vector machine recursive feature elimination (SVM-RFE), and random forest, these candidates were refined to a core panel of five biomarkers: the antioxidant enzyme catalase (CAT), acyl-CoA dehydrogenase very long chain (ACADVL), chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 4 (CCL4), cyclin E1 (CCNE1), and Jagged canonical Notch ligand 1 (JAG1). These biomarkers demonstrated strong diagnostic performance for CAT, CCNE1, and JAG1 in the validation cohort (AUC: 0.935-0.951), while ACADVL and CCL4 showed only moderate diagnostic potential (AUC: 0.645-0.649). The combined AUC range in the training cohort was 0.898-0.959. However, in the IBS-D rat model, only JAG1 was significantly upregulated in colonic tissue, whereas CAT, ACADVL, CCL4, and CCNE1 showed no significant changes. Among the five markers, only JAG1 was significantly upregulated in the IBS-D rat colon, confirming its local gut relevance. CAT and CCNE1 showed strong diagnostic performance (AUC >0.9), whereas ACADVL and CCL4 performed modestly (AUC <0.7). Given the blood-derived QTL data and colonic validation, cross-tissue heterogeneity is a key caveat: JAG1 is robustly validated in colon, while the remaining four markers-especially ACADVL and CCL4-require further evaluation in blood, PBMCs, or other relevant tissues. Functional enrichment analysis revealed their involvement in critical biological processes, including oxidative stress, fatty acid metabolism, immune cell recruitment, cell cycle progression, and epithelial-immune crosstalk via Notch signaling. Immune infiltration analysis uncovered a distinct immune landscape in IBS, with significant correlations between biomarker expression and immune cell populations. Notably, only JAG1 was significantly upregulated in the colonic tissues of the IBS-D rat model, confirming its relevance to gut pathophysiology. No significant changes were detected for CAT, ACADVL, CCL4, or CCNE1 in the same tissue samples, highlighting the tissue-specific nature of these candidate biomarkers. The SMR analysis demonstrated consistent causal directions between genetically predicted expression and disease risk for these five markers, with no discordance relative to their upregulation in IBS patients. All biomarker validation was performed at the transcriptomic level (RT-qPCR); no protein-level assays (e.g., Western blot, IHC, or ELISA) were conducted.This study delineates the genetic architecture linking aging and immunity to IBS through an integrative multi-omics and machine learning approach, providing novel putatively causal evidence and identifying JAG1 as a robustly validated biomarker with diagnostic and therapeutic potential. The remaining candidates warrant further investigation in appropriate biological contexts.Copyright © 2026 Yao, Li, Zhang, Li, Linghu, Li and Zhao.
Hypoxic pulmonary hypertension (HPH), a severe complication of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, features pulmonary vascular remodeling driven by dysregulated pulmonary arterial smooth muscle cell (PASMC) apoptosis, with limited therapies like vasodilators offering only modest hemodynamic benefits. This study aimed to elucidate the role of Midkine (MK) in regulating PASMC apoptosis via the Notch2 pathway and its potential as a novel anti-remodeling target in HPH progression.The experimental approach involved cellular and animal models. In vitro, PASMCs were exposed to hypoxia (1% O2, 48 h), and MK was silenced via lentiviral shRNA (shRNA-413, ∼85% knockdown). Cellular phenotypes were assessed using Cell Counting Kit-8 assays for proliferation, wound healing assays for migration, and flow cytometry for apoptosis. Molecular analyses (quantitative polymerase chain reaction and western blot) targeted apoptosis-related proteins and Notch2 signaling. In vivo, HPH was induced in rats by LPS plus chronic hypoxia/smoke exposure; MK was inhibited via intratracheal adeno-associated virus serotype 9-mediated gene delivery (AAV9-shRNA (1.5 × 1011 vg/rat). Outcomes included hemodynamics, vascular remodeling, oxidative stress markers, and apoptosis-related protein expression in lung tissue.In vitro, hypoxia upregulated MK, activating Notch2-Hes1 signaling, promoting proliferation and migration at 48 h, and suppressing apoptosis (P < 0.01 vs. normoxia). MK knockdown reversed these effects, restoring apoptosis (P < 0.01). In vivo, HPH activated the MK-Notch2 axis in rat lung tissue; MK suppression inhibited Notch2 signaling, improved antioxidant capacity, alleviated oxidative stress (e.g., elevated SOD/CAT, reduced MDA/LDH; P < 0.01), induced PASMC apoptosis, attenuated vascular remodeling, and reduced pulmonary arterial pressure.Unlike current vasodilators, MK drives HPH pathogenesis by suppressing PASMC apoptosis via Notch2 and exacerbating oxidative stress. Targeting MK offers a promising therapeutic strategy for HPH.Copyright © 2026 Zhu, Li, Wang, Huang, Peng, Wu, Liao, Wei, Zhong, Jin and Deng.
Bisphenol A (BPA) exposure is associated with gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM); however, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain elusive. This study aimed to identify key genes mediating BPA exposure-related GDM through integrative bioinformatics analysis. We integrated BPA-related targets from multiple databases with GDM-associated genes derived from GeneCards and the GSE103552 dataset. Functional enrichment analysis was performed on the intersecting genes. A protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was constructed, and hub genes were identified using four topological algorithms. Machine learning approaches were employed for feature selection. Immune infiltration was assessed, and core gene expression was validated via reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), additional GEO datasets, and single-cell RNA sequencing data. Thirty-four overlapping genes were identified and found to be enriched in the insulin signaling pathway, the AMPK pathway, and inflammatory responses. Following further screening, five core genes-HSPA8, NR3C1, ITGB1, NOTCH2, and POU5F1-were selected, demonstrating robust diagnostic performance. Immune analysis revealed significant correlations between hub genes and the infiltration levels of immune cells. Consistent expression patterns of ITGB1 and NOTCH2 were validated across additional GEO datasets. RT-qPCR confirmed the downregulation of HSPA8 and the upregulation of NR3C1 and NOTCH2 in GDM. Single-cell analysis corroborated cell-type-specific expression within the placenta. This study elucidates potential molecular links between BPA exposure and GDM, highlighting immune-metabolic dysregulation. The identified core genes may serve as biomarkers or therapeutic targets, thereby advancing precision environmental health strategies for pregnancy.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Society for Reproductive Investigation.
Ischemic tissue perfusion remains a major clinical challenge despite VEGF's central role in angiogenesis. Limited success of VEGF-based therapies underscores the need to understand endothelial heterogeneity, as distinct subsets exhibit differential responsiveness. This study explores conserved endothelial states that govern VEGF-driven angiogenesis across human organs and evaluates their functional significance.We performed single-cell and single-nucleus RNA-sequencing (scRNA-seq/snRNA-seq) analysis of endothelial cells (ECs) from eight human tissues using GTEx data, validated findings in independent skin and heart datasets, and conducted CRISPR-mediated PLCγ2 knockout in cultured ECs followed by scRNA-seq.Analysis of 209,126 nuclei revealed a universal arterial-like endothelial subset (cluster 2) enriched across all organs, characterized by high expression of PLCγ2, a critical VEGF signaling effector. PLCγ2high cells exhibited robust angiogenic and lymphangiogenic programs, including upregulation of VEGFC, NOTCH4, and JAG1, and enrichment of pathways for vasculature development and endothelial differentiation. Cell-cell communication analysis demonstrated exclusive BMP6, IGF2, and CXCL12 signaling from PLCγ2high cells to fibroblasts, pericytes, and immune cells, positioning this subset as a central angiogenic hub. Functional validation showed that PLCγ2 knockout depleted PLCγ2high clusters, suppressed VEGF signaling, and diminished BMP6 ligand secretion, confirming its role in maintaining proangiogenic endothelial states.Ineffective targeting of the appropriate EC state may limit current therapeutic VEGF strategies, positioning PLCγ2high ECs as a clinically relevant target.We identify PLCγ2high arterial ECs as a conserved pan-organ population critical for VEGF responsiveness and vascular regeneration. These findings reimagine VEGF therapy by highlighting PLCγ2 as a critical regulator of a proangiogenic arterial-like endothelial state and a promising combinatorial target to overcome limitations of current angiogenic strategies.
Hajdu-Cheney syndrome (HCS) is a rare autosomal dominant multisystem disorder caused by mutations in the NOTCH2 gene, leading to dysregulation of the Notch signaling pathway. It is characterized by a broad and variable clinical spectrum, including acroosteolysis, osteoporosis, short stature, craniofacial dysmorphism, and potential cardiovascular, renal, and neurological involvement. We report the case of a 16-year-old boy, born to consanguineous parents, who was referred for evaluation of facial dysmorphism. Clinical examination revealed typical features of HCS, including brachycephaly with a prominent occiput, hypertelorism with telecanthus, low-set ears, long philtrum, micrognathia, thick hair and eyebrows, periodontal disease with early tooth loss, brachydactyly with pseudo-clubbing, and pectus carinatum. The patient had a history of surgically treated patent ductus arteriosus. Radiological investigations showed kyphoscoliosis, generalized osteoporosis with multiple fractures, delayed closure of cranial sutures, an enlarged J-shaped sella turcica, and transverse acroosteolysis of the distal phalanges. Brain MRI revealed basilar invagination with compression of the acoustic-facial nerve bundle, explaining progressive bilateral hearing loss. Laboratory findings were within normal limits, with no abnormalities in calcium-phosphate metabolism or inflammatory markers. Whole-exome sequencing identified a heterozygous nonsense mutation in the NOTCH2 gene (NM_024408.4.6484del), classified as likely pathogenic, confirming the diagnosis of HCS. The patient was treated with IV zoledronic acid every six months, along with calcium and vitamin D supplementation. This case illustrates the multisystem and highly variable presentation of HCS. The combination of characteristic skeletal, craniofacial, neurological, and cardiovascular features associated with a de novo NOTCH2 mutation broadens the clinical spectrum of this exceptionally rare disorder. Advances in understanding the role of Notch signaling may lead to targeted therapies in the future. Prognosis depends on the severity of systemic complications, particularly neurological involvement and thoracic deformities leading to respiratory impairment.Copyright © 2026, Nahi et al.
The Jagged1 (JAG1) gene is essential for cardiac development, yet its tissue-specific transcriptional regulation remains poorly understood. In this study we used an integrative screening approach to identify 19 candidate enhancers within the ±100 kb region flanking the JAG1 locus, among which R7 exhibited the highest activity in dual-luciferase assays. CRISPR/Cas9-mediated deletion of R7 in AC16 cells significantly reduced JAG1 expression, decreased proliferative and migratory capacities, and increased apoptosis. Mechanistically, R7 deletion altered local chromatin contacts and reduced accessibility at CTCF-bound regions near the JAG1 promoter, accompanied by decreased H3K27ac, H3K4me3, RNA polymerase II, and SRF occupancy. These findings identify R7 as a cardiac-associated promoter-proximal regulatory element with enhancer-like activity that contributes to local chromatin organization and transcriptional activity at the JAG1 locus.© 2026 Zhuang et al.
Introduction Alagille syndrome (ALGS) is a rare autosomal dominant multisystem condition. This study focuses on the prenatal sonographic findings observed in cases confirmed to have ALGS through the molecular detection of JAG1 variants, either prenatally or postnatally. Methods This retrospective study enrolled thirteen cases of ALGS, diagnosed either prenatally or postnatally. Comprehensive medical records were systematically reviewed, with emphasis on pregnancy-related data, including serial fetal ultrasound examinations throughout gestation, molecular genetic test results, and pregnancy outcomes. Results Among the thirteen cases, ten demonstrated abnormal sonographic findings during the second trimester: unilateral multicystic dysplastic kidney (MCDK) in two (2/13), left MCDK with concomitant right renal agenesis in one (1/13), left MCDK associated with butterfly vertebrae in one (1/13), isolated butterfly vertebrae in three (3/13), non-visualized gallbladder in two (2/13), and supravalvular aortic stenosis with persistent left superior vena cava in one (1/13). The remaining three cases exhibited normal second-trimester ultrasound examinations but developed abnormal sonographic features in the third trimester: intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) was identified in two cases (2/13), and one case showed co-occurring pulmonary artery stenosis and butterfly vertebrae (1/13).Conclusion This study demonstrates that individuals with ALGS lack definitive prenatal ultrasound markers. When abnormalities are present, they are often subtle and nonspecific, which may not prompt clinicians to pursue genetic testing.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by S. Karger AG.
The aim was to determine the transcriptomic features of tumor and stromal cells in direct contact within tumor nodules in luminal and triple-negative breast cancer.Spatial transcriptomic profiling was performed using the Visium 10x platform on FFPE tumor tissue sections from 10 patients with luminal breast cancer and 9 patients with triple-negative breast cancer. Manual morphological annotation of spots and evaluation of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in identified spot clusters were performed using Loupe Browser v8.0.0 (10X Genomics, USA). Activated biological processes were assessed using the Enrichr online resource and the GO Biological Process 2025 database. Ligand-receptor pairs were identified using the CellChat package (v2.0) in R (v4.4.2).In luminal breast cancer, mixed cluster (tumor cells colocalized with stromal cells) was characterized by overexpression of genes encoding S100A family Ca2+-binding proteins (S100A4, S100A8, S100A9), matrix metalloproteinases (MMP2, MMP7, MMP14), cytokeratins (KRT5, KRT7, KRT15, KRT23, KRT81), the mesenchymal marker VIM, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT)-associated genes (ICAM1, PRRX1) compared to tumor-only cluster. In triple-negative breast cancer, mixed cluster showed overexpression of S100A2, S100A8, S100A9, the epithelial gene KRT6B, the cancer stem cell marker CD44, and NOTCH2, which is associated with negative regulation of EMT. In both breast cancer subtypes, mixed cluster showed transcriptomic enrichment of gene sets associated with regulation of the ERK/MAPK cascade, apoptosis, and cell adhesion and migration. Ligand-receptor pairs associated with cell-cell contact, EMT, and immune response were also detected in colocalized cells, with a broader spectrum of these pairs observed in luminal breast cancer.This study assessed the transcriptomic characteristics of directly contacting tumor and stromal cells and identified the spectrum of ligand-receptor pairs mediating their interactions. Characterizing the properties of cells at the tumor-stroma interface helps unravel mechanisms of breast cancer progression and identify novel diagnostic markers and therapeutic targets.© The Author(s) 2026.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42566987 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42564204 is a review article
Neuroinflammation plays an important role in the pathobiology of Progressive Supranuclear Palsy Syndrome (PSP-S). However, it is not adequately known whether peripheral inflammation correlates to neuroinflammation in PSP-S. This study aimed to examine a link between peripheral and brain inflammation in PSP-S by integrating blood and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) inflammatory profile and Positron Emission Tomography (PET)-Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) (PET-MRI).Fifty-six PSP-S patients and equal number of healthy controls were recruited. Plasma Th17 pathway cytokine (IL-6, IL-1β, IL-4, IL-10, IL-17A, IL-17F, IL-21, IL-22, IL-23, IL-25, IL-31, IL-33, IFN-γ, sCD40L, and TNF-α) levels were measured in all the study participants. CSF levels of these cytokines were measured only in PSP-S patients. The expressions of NF-κB (Nfkb1, and Nfkb2), inflammasome (Nlrp3, Casp1, and Il18), Th17 (Il1b, Il6, Il17, Tnfa, Il22, Il23, Rorc, and Stat3) and anti-inflammatory (Tgfb, and Il10) genes were quantified in all the study participants. PET-MRI was carried out in a subset of PSP-S patients (n=12) and eleven disease controls (Parkinson's Disease=7, and Multiple System Atrophy=4).Inflammasome (Casp1 and Il18), NF-κB (Nfkb1) and inflammatory (Il1b and Il6) genes were upregulated in PSP-S patients. Plasma IL-1β, IL-6, IL-17A, and IL-17F levels were significantly elevated in PSP-S patients. IL-1β levels significantly correlated between plasma and CSF. PET-MRI indicated neuroinflammation in several brain regions of PSP-S patients.Both systemic inflammation and neuroinflammation are evident in PSP-S. The positive correlation of higher plasma IL-1β levels with neuroinflammation provides preliminary evidence towards the influence of specific peripheral inflammatory molecule on neuroinflammatory basis of PSP-S. The altered immune elements of the current study further reinforce the pathogenic relevance of immune-inflammatory pathways in PSP-S pathobiology.Copyright © 2026 Dey, Kumar, Kumar, Kavya, Mondal, Holla, Kamble, Mahale, Pal, Yadav and Debnath.
The meninges are a gateway for pathogenic T cells to enter the central nervous system (CNS). They possess a diverse repertoire of immune cells that orchestrate CNS inflammation and autoimmunity, yet the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. Here, we report that group 2 innate lymphoid cells (ILC2s) accumulated in the dura as experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) progressed. Single-cell RNA sequencing and flow cytometry analyses revealed distinct features of ILC2s, including expression of MHC class II. ILC2s acted as antigen-presenting cells to activate and expand myelin-reactive T cells in an MHC class II-dependent manner. ILC2-mediated expansion of myelin-reactive T cells increased expression of cytokines IFN-γ and IL-17A. Genetic ablation of ILC2s or of H2-Ab1 in ILC2s alleviated neuroinflammation and CNS demyelination during EAE. These findings revealed a role of ILC2s in neuroinflammation via instructing myelin-reactive T cells, implying targeting ILC2s may be an avenue to restrict CNS inflammation and autoimmunity.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Both influenza A infection (IAV) and type I hypersensitivity mechanisms have been independently linked to acute appendicitis. Particularly the expression of type I hypersensitivity associated with cytokine interleukin (IL) 13 has been shown to be of significance in both, appendicitis and influenza infection. The aim of the current study was to analyze possible associations of respective gene expressions at the level of mathematical correlations.We analyzed messenger RNA (mRNA) gene expressions of IAV-associated markers, hypersensitivity type I-related cytokines and inflammatory markers IL-17A and c-reactive protein (CRP) in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from 29 children aged 7-17 years, who were operated for histologically confirmed appendicitis at Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin between April and August 2019. Statistical relationships between gene expressions were investigated using Spearman's correlation analysis, with a correlation coefficient r ≥ 0.5 or r ≤ - 0.5 representing high, and r ≥ 0.7 or r ≤ - 0.7 very high correlations. Statistical significance was assumed at P < 0.01.A total of 29 patients were involved in this study. Particularly the expression of IL-13 showed highly significant negative correlations with that of IAV-specific antiviral response genes, ranging from - 0.89 (P < 0.0001) to - 0.49 (P = 0.006). A strong inflammatory background was demonstrated by very high correlations of IL-13 with CRP (r = 0.91, P < 0.0001) and IL-17A (r = 0.82, P < 0.0001).These findings suggest a connection between IAV infection and acute appendicitis in children, implicating sequential immune responses, including hypersensitivity type I mechanisms, in appendicitis pathophysiology.© 2026. The Author(s).
While smoking is the leading cause of lung cancer, the increasing incidence among never-smokers is a growing concern, highlighting non-tobacco-related mechanisms of carcinogenesis. Emerging evidence suggests that respiratory microbial dysbiosis and associated inflammatory responses may contribute to lung tumorigenesis. We previously showed that elevated abundances of Selenomonas, Streptococcus, and Veillonella are correlated with lung cancer independent of smoking history. Here, we examine whether circulating microbial and inflammatory profiles are linked to lung cancer in never-smokers.Circulating bacterial DNA representing the three genera was quantified by droplet digital PCR, and seven systemic inflammatory cytokines were measured by ELISA in plasma of 56 ever-smoker lung cancer patients, 56 never-smoker lung cancer patients, and 78 healthy controls. Integrative statistical modeling was performed to evaluate relationships among bacterial DNA burden, inflammatory activation, smoking history, and cancer status.Plasma DNA levels of Selenomonas, Streptococcus, and Veillonella, together with IL-6, TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-8, and IL-17A, were elevated in lung cancer patients compared with controls (all p < 0.05). No significant differences were observed between smoking and never-smoking lung cancer patients for bacterial DNA levels, IL-6, TNF-α, or IL-17A (all > 0.05), whereas modest but statistically significant differences were observed for IL-8 (P = 0.036) and IL-1β (P = 0.048). Bacterial DNA burden was correlated with systemic inflammatory cytokine activation independent of smoking history (all p < 0.05).A smoking-independent microbial-inflammatory signature is associated with lung cancer and provides a foundation for future studies evaluating its biological significance and clinical utility for diagnosis and management.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Cutaneous verrucae (warts) are benign epidermal proliferations caused by human papillomavirus (HPV) infection. The host immune response particularly T helper 17 (Th17) related cytokines such as interleukin-17A (IL-17A) and interleukin-23 (IL-23) plays a critical role in the regulation of viral control and inflammatory responses. However, the systemic levels of these cytokines in patients with verrucae have not been sufficiently characterized.To investigate serum IL-17A and IL-23 levels in patients with cutaneous verrucae, to compare them with those of healthy controls, and to evaluate their associations with age, sex, number of lesions, disease duration, and lesion localization.In this case-control study, 49 patients with palmoplantar or anogenital verrucae and 41 age- and sex-matched healthy controls were included. Serum IL-17A and IL-23 levels were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Continuous variables were analyzed using the Mann-Whitney U test, and categorical variables using the chi-square test. Correlations between variables were assessed using Spearman correlation analysis.The median serum IL-23 level was 11.8 pg/mL (interquartile range, IQR: 7.8-21.3) in patients with cutaneous verrucae and 8.8 pg/mL (IQR: 7.2-12.0) in controls, with a statistically significant difference (p = 0.018). The median serum IL-17A level was 16.6 pg/mL (IQR: 8.7-37.9) in patients and 16.4 pg/mL (IQR: 10.9-24.5) in controls, with no significant difference between the groups (p = 0.755). A strong positive correlation was observed between IL-17A and IL-23 levels in patients (rs = 0.880, p < 0.001). No significant associations were found between cytokine levels and age, sex, number of lesions, disease duration, or localization.Elevated IL-23 levels and its strong positive correlation with IL-17A suggest that the IL-23/IL-17Axis may play a role in immune activation associated with HPV-related cutaneous verrucae. IL-23 may represent a potential indicator of immune activation associated with cutaneous verrucae; however, its standalone diagnostic utility appears limited. Future studies with larger cohorts and tissue-level analyses are needed to further elucidate the role of Th17-related cytokines in the pathogenesis of verrucae.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Beyond its antidepressant effects, esketamine (ESK) has the potential to enhance neuroplasticity, facilitating the reconnection with emotional and cognitive processes, improving social cognition, and promoting resilience. However, not much is known about its role in Alzheimer's disease (AD). This study aims to explore the potential mechanism of ESK in AD treatment. The potential targets of ESK were predicted by bioinformatics analysis, and 3xTg-AD male mice were subjected to adeno-associated virus and ESK treatment. Cognitive ability, neuronal damage, and proinflammatory factors in 3xTg-AD mice were evaluated. An inflammatory model was established by inducing mouse cortical neurons with mouse IL-17A protein. Neuronal viability was assessed after treatment with different concentrations of ESK. TAOK1 knockdown or IL-17RA knockdown was performed on 3xTg-AD mice and neurons. TAOK1 was highly expressed in the cerebral cortex of ESK-treated 3xTg-AD mice. ESK improved IL-17-induced neuronal inflammation and DNA damage in a TAOK1-dependent manner. TAOK1 interacted with IL-17RA. IL-17RA knockdown improved DNA damage and inflammatory responses in cells and alleviated cognitive impairment and neuroinflammation in AD mice. Overall, ESK protects against DNA damage-mediated neuroinflammation by promoting TAOK1 and inhibiting IL-17 signaling, thereby improving cognitive dysfunction in 3xTg-AD mice.
The TREM2 receptor is a well-known rheostat for inflammation and immunity, but its role in host defense against parasitic infection is only just emerging. We investigated the function of TREM2 during acute Toxoplasma gondii infection by comparing TREM2-deficient and C57BL/6 wild-type (WT) mice during intraperitoneal infection with type II (Prugniaud strain) T. gondii. Infected TREM2 knockout (KO) mice had significantly increased mortality and elevated parasite burden during acute infection, as well as increased liver pathology and higher levels of inflammatory cytokines IL-1α, IL-6, and IL-17A by 7 days post-infection (dpi). Notably, we observed an early expansion and dissemination of T. gondii in infected macrophages in the omentum in TREM2 KO compared to WT mice, and this phenotype was specific to TREM2 deficiency on radiation-sensitive cells, based on bone marrow chimera experiments. In vitro, TREM2 KO macrophages were more permissive to T. gondii infection and exhibited reduced LAMP1 upregulation and impaired phagocytotic clearance of T. gondii compared to WT macrophages. TREM2 deficiency has been previously associated with elevated ERK signaling and defective lysosomal activity, and we found that treatment of TREM2 KO macrophages with the ERK inhibitor SCH772984 rescued LAMP1 expression and improved macrophage control of the parasites. Finally, RNA sequencing of myeloid cells isolated from the peritoneal cavity of infected mice at 3 dpi revealed increased transcripts associated with inflammation and decreased transcripts associated with cellular migration in the TREM2 KO compared to WT mice. These findings demonstrate a critical role for TREM2 in the early antimicrobial immune response to T. gondii infection by limiting parasite expansion, dissemination, and pathological inflammation in the infected host.Copyright: © 2026 Debray et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Rheumatoid arthritis-associated interstitial lung disease (RA-ILD) is a severe autoimmune complication lacking effective treatments. This study investigates the molecular mechanisms underlying the therapeutic effects of licorice-ginger decoction (GGD) in experimental models relevant to arthritis-associated lung fibrosis. Utilizing network pharmacology, transcriptomic sequencing, and molecular docking analyses, we identified the STAT1/ICAM1/IL-17A signaling pathway as crucial for GGD efficacy. Experimental validation in both cellular and murine models demonstrated that GGD markedly alleviated body weight loss, reduced arthritis severity, and improved pulmonary pathological injury under inflammatory arthritis conditions. Mechanistic analyses revealed direct binding of Kae and QR to STAT1/ICAM1, leading to IL-17A inhibition and mitigation of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and fibroblast activation. Notably, overexpression of STAT1 attenuated the therapeutic effects of GGD. This study provides mechanistic insights into the anti-inflammatory and antifibrotic effects of GGD in experimental models relevant to arthritis-associated lung fibrosis and offers a potential framework for future mechanistic studies and translational research of classical Chinese formulations.© 2026 the Australian and New Zealand Society for Immunology, Inc.
Brain metastases with neuroendocrine differentiation are rare but well-documented and may closely mimic primary intracranial neoplasms. Their radiological and clinical overlap with high-grade glial tumors can complicate the initial diagnostic approach, particularly in young patients without a known primary malignancy. Accurate diagnosis is critical, as neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) require systemic evaluation and management strategies distinct from those of primary brain tumors.A 22-year-old man presented with a first-time generalized tonic-clonic seizure accompanied by severe headache, generalized weakness, malaise, and progressive right-sided facial paresis and paresthesias, later extending to the right upper extremity. Brain magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated a left frontotemporal lesion with imaging characteristics suggestive of a high-grade astrocytoma. The patient underwent surgical resection via an extended pterional approach, achieving gross total resection of the lesion. Initial histopathological evaluation suggested a high-grade glioma. However, further immunohistochemical analysis of the solid tumor component revealed positivity for pancytokeratin (AE1/AE3), MOC31 (polyclonal), and synaptophysin (polyclonal), with a Ki-67 (MIB-1) labeling index of 10-15%. These findings supported a diagnosis of carcinoma with neuroendocrine differentiation, contradicting the initial presumptive diagnosis of a primary glial tumor. A postoperative octreotide scintigraphy (octreoscan) failed to identify a primary NET.This case underscores the diagnostic challenge posed by brain metastases with neuroendocrine differentiation, particularly in young patients presenting with solitary intracranial lesions mimicking high-grade gliomas. It highlights the indispensable role of immunohistochemistry in establishing the correct diagnosis and guiding appropriate systemic evaluation and management. Awareness of this rare entity is essential, as misclassification may lead to suboptimal treatment strategies and delayed oncological workup.Copyright: © 2026 Surgical Neurology International.
Orbital and ocular space-occupying lesions comprise a spectrum ranging from common to extremely rare entities. These neoplasms may be primary or secondary. The incidence of primary malignant orbital tumors has been reported to be 10 per 10 million per year. We report an incidental case of a tumor attached to right extraocular muscle in a 40-year male who was a victim of a road traffic accident and presented with abrasions on the left side of the face following a fall from a motor vehicle. Radiological examination (MRI brain and CT brain) showed an incidental well-circumscribed tumor attached to lateral rectus muscle of the right eye measuring 3 × 2 × 1 cm. Microscopy showed a nodular tumor with prominent Homer-Wright rosettes. The tumor was immune-positive for desmin and smooth muscle actin and immune-negative for MyoD1, myogenin, CD99, WT1, pancytokeratin, epithelial membrane antigen (EMA), synaptophysin, chromogranin, CD34, glial fibrillary acidic protein, and HMB45. NKX2.2 staining was inconclusive and the MIB-1 labeling index was approximately 10 to 12% in areas of highest proliferative activity. The possibility of neuroectodermal tumors, the solid variant of alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma, neuroblastoma, PEComa, desmoplastic small round cell tumor, and metastasis from a neuroendocrine tumor was ruled out, and a diagnosis of a round cell tumor with primitive neuroectodermal tumor-like morphology and myogenic differentiation was rendered. Interphase FISH testing for EWSR1 showed an EWSR1 gene rearrangement. As the biologic potential of such tumors is unknown, complete excision has been proposed as the treatment of choice. Adjuvant chemoradiation may be considered based on the presence of residual tumor or local spread. This case represents an entity belonging to the EWSR1 family with unusual morphology and an ambiguous immunoprofile. It is a classic example of cases that cannot be diagnosed without molecular techniques and highlights the limitations we face in this era of molecularly defined entities.Asian Congress of Neurological Surgeons. This is an open access article published by Thieme under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution-NonDerivative-NonCommercial License, permitting copying and reproduction so long as the original work is given appropriate credit. Contents may not be used for commercial purposes, or adapted, remixed, transformed or built upon. ( https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/ ).
Mindbomb1 (MIB1), an E3 ubiquitin ligase required for NOTCH activation, has been identified as a strongly selective cancer dependency in genome-wide loss-of-function screens in over 1000 cancer cell lines. However, MIB1-correlating dependencies in these screens unexpectedly linked MIB1 not to Notch but rather to the family of Transforming Growth Factor-β (TGF-β) and Bone Morphogenic Protein (BMP) signaling molecules. Here, using genetic and pharmacologic methods, we show that MIB1 loss phenocopies BMP tumor suppressive function. MIB1-dependent cancer cell lines were sensitive to BMP ligands, and MIB1 loss selectively enhanced BMP signaling, as evidenced by SMAD1/5/9 phosphorylation and transcriptional responses that correlated with increased BMP receptor protein levels. Growth inhibition and enhanced signaling were both reversed by inhibitors of BMP type 1 receptors, demonstrating that these MIB1 effects directly reflect a function for MIB1 as a negative regulator of BMP signaling. Unlike wild-type MIB1, re-expression of RING-domain-deleted MIB1 failed to rescue growth inhibition in MIB1-depleted cells, suggesting that negative regulation depends on E3 ligase activity. Supporting this regulatory role, we found that MIB1 and the BMP type II receptor BMPR2 physically associate in both cancer and endothelial cells. By revealing this previously unknown role for MIB1 as a Notch-independent negative regulator of BMP signaling, our study expands the significance of MIB1 in cancer biology, with implications for targeting BMP signaling in cancer and other diseases.
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) continues to pose a significant global health challenge, as conventional therapies often exhibit limited effectiveness. Ferroptosis has emerged as a critical vulnerability across diverse malignancies, including NSCLC, offering a promising opportunity for therapeutic intervention. Nevertheless, molecular mediators dictating ferroptosis sensitivity and exploitable vulnerabilities remain largely elusive in NSCLC. In this study, pyruvate carboxylase (PC) is identified as a pivotal ferroptosis regulator that is highly expressed in NSCLC tissues and associated with aggressive progression and poor prognosis. Functionally, PC promotes NSCLC cell proliferation, migration, and invasion both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, PC confers resistance to ferroptosis by suppressing AMPK activation in an ATP-dependent manner, thereby activating the AKT-mTOR signaling pathway, upregulating fatty acid synthase (FASN) and malonyl-CoA-acyl carrier protein transacylase (MCAT), and ultimately inhibiting the PPARα-ACSL4 axis. Further analyses revealed that PC is targeted by Deltex E3 ubiquitin ligase 1 (DTX1) and ubiquitin-specific peptidase 51 (USP51), which modulate NSCLC progression by altering ferroptosis susceptibility. Therapeutically, the combination of the USP51 inhibitor dihydromyricetin (DHM) and anti-PD-1 treatment enhances antitumor efficacy with increased ferroptosis in vivo. Collectively, these results demonstrate that blocking PC facilitates ferroptosis, highlighting PC as a potential therapeutic target for NSCLC.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Lipophilic marine toxins (LMTs) are important toxic risk factors in marine ecosystems and seafood safety, yet the comparative cytotoxicity-associated molecular responses of different LMT classes remain unclear. Here, Neuro-2a cells were exposed to four representative LMTs-dinophysistoxin-1 (DTX1), azaspiracid-3 (AZA3), yessotoxin (YTX), and pectenotoxin-2 (PTX2)-and acute cytotoxicity was evaluated together with integrated transcriptomic, proteomic, and metabolomic analyses. Cell viability assays showed a cytotoxic potency order of DTX1 > AZA3 > YTX > PTX2. Integrated multi-omics analysis revealed that DTX1, the most cytotoxic toxin, caused the broadest molecular perturbations, mainly involving mitochondrial energy metabolism, p53-mediated stress responses, and multilayered metabolic networks. AZA3 and YTX induced intermediate cytotoxicity and showed partially similar perturbation patterns, particularly affecting cytoskeleton-related, immune-related, and metabolism-related processes. In contrast, PTX2, the least cytotoxic toxin, produced more limited responses mainly involving tyrosine metabolism and the cGMP-PKG signaling network. Overall, molecular perturbation patterns generally corresponded to acute cytotoxic potencies, while each toxin exhibited distinct key pathways and functional modules. These findings provide a multi-omics basis for cytotoxic responses of representative LMT classes and guide subsequent functional validation.
Adult hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) may be triggered by infection, malignancy, or systemic inflammatory disease. Attribution is challenging when recent SARS-CoV-2 infection, quiescent adult-onset Still's disease (AOSD), and an occult B-cell clonal disorder coexist.A 71-year-old man with AOSD controlled for 14 years on low-dose methotrexate developed persistent fever and fatigue after mild SARS-CoV-2 infection. He subsequently developed cytopenias, hyperferritinemia, markedly elevated lactate dehydrogenase, diffuse FDG-avid lymphadenopathy, hepatosplenomegaly, elevated soluble interleukin-2 receptor, reduced natural killer-cell activity, and bone marrow hemophagocytosis, fulfilling HLH criteria. Broad pathogen evaluation, including blood and bone marrow metagenomic next-generation sequencing, did not identify an alternative infectious trigger. Bone marrow histopathology did not show definite tumor cells; however, flow cytometry identified monoclonal mature B cells, and peripheral-blood smear high-throughput sequencing detected lymphoma-associated mutations including MYD88, CD79B, IGLL5, PRDM1, DTX1, DUSP2, and BTG1. Multidisciplinary consultation favored probable lymphoma-associated HLH with clinically diagnosed stage IVB diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. HLH-directed therapy followed by rituximab-based lymphoma-directed chemotherapy led to transient clinical improvement, but the patient later died from infectious complications.Mild SARS-CoV-2 infection may act as a co-trigger or unmasking event rather than the sole cause of HLH. Persistent high lactate dehydrogenase and soluble interleukin-2 receptor, diffuse lymphadenopathy, clonal mature B cells, lymphoma-associated mutations, and negative broad pathogen testing should prompt evaluation for occult lymphoma-associated HLH.Copyright © 2026 Long, Song and Li.
Large B-cell lymphoma with IRF4 rearrangement (LBCL-IRF4) predominantly affects children and young adults (CAYA) and presents as localized disease with excellent prognosis. Although most tumors harbor IRF4 rearrangements (IRF4-R), the existence of cryptic rearrangements has been suggested. Whether IRF4-R LBCL in adults represents the same biological entity remains unclear. To address this question, 35 CAYA patients diagnosed with LBCL-IRF4 and 7 adult (>40-year-old) LBCL with IRF4-R were investigated by an integrative molecular approach. Targeted sequencing structural variant analysis (SV-NGS) confirmed the IRF4-R in 84% of investigated cases. In CAYA, an enrichment (55% vs 29% in adults) of translocations involving IGH, with a breakpoint cluster 3' to IRF4 (EXOC2) was observed, including a cryptic insertion of IGHM-IGHJ5 into IRF4 locus. Novel translocations, IRF4::MIR142 in two CAYA (7%) and IRF4::BATF in one adult, were discovered. Whole-exome sequencing analysis identified unreported mutations in LBCL-IRF4 as YY1 and ZC3H12A (11% each). The high incidence of mutations affecting the B-cell receptor/NF-KB pathways in LBCL-IRF4 was confirmed in cases with diffuse component only. None of the CAYA tumors were classified by LymphGen tool. Adult IRF4-R LBCL showed higher levels of genetic complexity and a distinct mutational profile with mutations on KMT2D and DTX1 (43% each), and MYD88-L265P (29%), and were predicted as EZB or MCD (29% each). These differential genetic features were in line with different clinical presentations (extranodal involvement and advanced stage). In conclusion, IRF4-R architecture and mutational profile differ according to age, supporting that not all cases should be classified as LBCL-IRF4.Copyright © 2026 American Society of Hematology.
The coexistence of hyalinizing trabecular tumor (HTT) and areas with a morphology of noninvasive follicular thyroid neoplasm with papillary-like nuclear features (NIFTP) within a single thyroid nodule has not been previously reported. We aimed to determine whether such tumors represent two independent neoplasms or a single tumor exhibiting divergent morphology.Ten tumors containing both HTT and NIFTP-like areas were examined. The term "NIFTP-like" was used strictly as a descriptive morphological designation for areas that fulfill the histologic criteria of NIFTP. Immunohistochemical analyses of Ki-67 (MIB-1) and type IV collagen and targeted molecular testing were performed. Ten NIFTPs, 10 follicular adenomas, and three HTTs were used as controls.HTT components consistently showed characteristic membranous Ki-67 staining and intra-trabecular type IV collagen deposition, whereas NIFTP-like areas lacked these features, except for focal apical Ki-67 staining. Intranuclear cytoplasmic inclusions in HTT were positive for type IV collagen. NIFTPs showed neither membranous Ki-67 nor intra-trabecular type IV collagen. Molecular analysis demonstrated identical profiles between HTT components and NIFTP-like areas: three tumors harbored PAX8::GLIS3 fusions, and none showed RAS mutations. Pure HTT controls exhibited the same pattern.Our findings indicate that these follicular-patterned areas represent a morphological variant within the spectrum of HTT rather than a true NIFTP-related component or two separate neoplasms. These findings expand the recognized histologic diversity of HTT and highlight a potential diagnostic pitfall in follicular-patterned thyroid tumors. Focal apical Ki-67 staining may serve as a useful clue for distinguishing HTT from NIFTP.
Pituitary carcinoma (PC) is a rare, aggressive endocrine neoplasm characterized by metastasis and challenging clinical management. The transformation from pituitary adenoma (PA) to PC is poorly understood, and predictors of metastasis remain elusive. This study evaluates the clinical course, surgical outcomes, and molecular characteristics of PC.We retrospectively reviewed patients with PC treated at the M. D. Anderson Cancer Center between 1993 and 2023. Primary outcomes included metastasis-free survival and overall survival (OS). Clinical features, radiographic findings, surgical strategies and outcomes, immunohistochemical profiles, and MIB-1 were analyzed.The cohort (n = 20) had a median age at PA and PC diagnosis of 33.9 and 43.3 years, respectively. The median metastasis-free interval was 7.4 years. GH- and ACTH-secreting tumors showed shorter times to PC diagnosis, while nonfunctioning PAs had longer metastasis-free survival. PAs with MIB-1 > 10% had shorter survival. Dura was the most common site of metastasis within the CNS, and bone was the most common outside the CNS. Leptomeningeal disease was seen in six patients. PAs became aggressive > five years after initial surgical resection (n = 13) or metastasized early within the first five years (n = 7). Median OS from PA diagnosis was 13.7 years, and 8.6 years from PC diagnosis. A total of 102 neurosurgical procedures were performed, with a median of five per patient; the median was similar in patients surviving longer than five years vs. those whose survival was shorter (5.0 vs. 4.5 procedures, p = 0.661). Most surgical interventions post-PC diagnosis were for optic decompression or metastasectomy. All long-term survivors (at least five years after PC diagnosis) received temozolomide-based therapy, with most also receiving radiotherapy.PC shows a variable clinical course, with some PAs progressing to PC after years, while others transform rapidly. All long-term survivors received temozolomide-based therapy, most in combination with radiotherapy and repeated surgical intervention, suggesting that aggressive multimodal management may be associated with prolonged survival. Future research will focus on identifying reliable predictors of metastasis at different time points in the complex clinical evolution of these tumors.
In the last few years, chemical analysis and chromatography approaches have been implemented widely for detecting marijuana. Such approaches are slightly unreliable, which may consume considerable time, demand a lot of money, and depend on specific laboratory tools. The increasing need for swift, lightweight, and straightforward methods of identification has led to investigations into biosensor devices that offer immediate analysis and greater sensitivity. To fulfil this need, we have hypothesized a novel design of an Encircled Quad-Block Configuration Refractive Index Biosensor (EQBCRIB) has been developed for the label-free detection of marijuana in the blood. The configuration of the encircled quad-block sensor can be able to combine stability, sensitivity, and adaptability at a single platform, which can draw attention as a transformative design with the most effective of 392.49 nm/RIU, 390.69 nm/RIU, and 388.15 nm/RIU to detect MIB1 (marijuana infected blood sample 1), MIB2 (marijuana infected blood sample 2), and MIB3 (marijuana infected blood sample 3), respectively. The effective detection limits of 0.0306 RIU, and the significant figure of merit values of 18.05 RIU-1 for MIB1 have been obtained. The highest values of R2 = 0.981701, and MSE (mean square error) = 0.001423 of linear regression of machine learning have been reported to ensure high detection prediction of marijuana.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Placental dysfunction and immune dysregulation are central to disorders such as fetal growth restriction (FGR) and preeclampsia (PE). Although aberrant placental glycosylation has been implicated in various pregnancy complications, the specific expression patterns of glycosylation-related genes (GRGs) associated with placental pathology and their potential role in driving immune imbalance at the maternal-fetal interface remain poorly understood.First, differentially expressed gene (DEG) identification and gene set enrichment analysis based on two GEO datasets (GSE114691 and GSE203507) revealed disease-associated pathways. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) further identified glycosylation-related gene modules significantly associated with disease status. Three machine learning algorithms (LASSO, random forest, and support vector machine) were employed to screen diagnostic key genes, and a predictive nomogram was constructed. The efficacy of the diagnostic model was evaluated using receiver operating characteristic curves, calibration curves, and decision curve analysis. CIBERSORT was used to assess immune cell infiltration characteristics in the placenta and decidua of FGR, PE, and PE+FGR. Furthermore, single-cell RNA sequencing validated the expression patterns of key diagnostic genes across different trophoblast subsets, and cell-cell communication networks were analyzed using CellChat. In addition, this study validated the diagnostic efficacy of key genes in real-world samples.Following batch correction and integration of two datasets, 104 samples were analyzed, including controls (n=26), PE (n=28), FGR (n=23), and PE+FGR (n=27). Glycosylation-related pathways were enriched in disease groups. Intersection of WGCNA modules with glycosylation genes yielded 97 overlapping genes, from which five core genes were identified using three machine learning algorithms. A diagnostic model based on these genes showed good predictive performance across disease groups. Immune infiltration analysis implicated multiple immune cell types in disease pathogenesis. Real-world validation of expression of B3GNT2 and ST6GAL1 differed significantly between normal and PE/FGR groups.Five candidate hub genes (B3GNT2, ST6GAL1, GALNT11, GCNT4, and LARGE2) were identified and a nomogram was constructed for FGR, PE, and PE+FGR diagnosis. Protein-level validation confirmed significant downregulation of B3GNT2 and ST6GAL1 in placental tissues from FGR and PE patients; mRNA-level validation of GALNT11, GCNT4, and LARGE2 is provided in independent clinical samples. These hub genes were associated with key immune cell types at both the placenta and decidua.Copyright © 2026 Yin, Hu, Yu, Zhang, Yu, Huang, Xu, Tang, Liu and Du.
To establish a doxorubicin (DOX)-resistant acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cell line and explore the mechanisms of its drug resistance.A DOX-resistant THP1 cell line (THP1-Rdox) was established using a low-dose, concentration-gradient intermittent induction method. The resistance effect was evaluated by calculating the resistance index (RI). The expression levels of resistance-related proteins ［P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and lung resistance-related protein (LRP)］ and cell cycle-related proteins (Cyclin A2, Cyclin B1 and Cyclin D1) were examined by Western blot. Intracellular DOX accumulation was observed using confocal laser scanning microscopy. Apoptosis rate and cell cycle distribution were analyzed by flow cytometry. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) was performed to compare the differential gene expression profiles between DOX-sensitive parental THP1 cells and DOX-resistant THP1-Rdox cells.The DOX-resistant cell line THP1-Rdox was successfully established. The THP1-Rdox cells could stably proliferate at a DOX concentration of 500 ng/ml with a resistance index as high as 198.7. The THP1-Rdox cells exhibited cross-resistance to homoharringtonine (HHT) and paclitaxel (PTX) but no significant resistance to cytarabine (Ara-C). Compared with parental THP1 cells, the expression levels of drug resistance-related proteins P-gp and LRP in THP1-Rdox cells were significantly upregulated. Additionally, THP1-Rdox cells showed decreased uptake and increased efflux of DOX. Notably, after treatment with verapamil (Ver), a specific inhibitor of P-gp, intracellular DOX accumulation was significantly increased in THP1-Rdox cells. Compared with parental THP1 cells, the THP1-Rdox cells exhibited a significantly decreased apoptosis rate, a reduced proportion of cells in the S phase, an increased proportion of cells in the G1 phase, and a marked upregulation in the expression level of the cell cycle regulatory protein Cyclin D1. RNA-seq analysis showed that among the differentially expressed genes between THP1-Rdox and parental THP1 cells, the top 10 most significantly upregulated genes in THP1-Rdox cells were ABCB1, HNRNPA1P9, SEMA3E, MICB, JAML, FGL2, VSIG1, CLEC1B, DLGAP1-AS3, and HOOK1; the top 10 most significantly downregulated genes were MAGEB2, NPTX2, CGREF1, CDO1, GBP5, ZNF595, ZNF630, DTX3, KLHL4 and ZBED6CL.Low-dose, concentration-gradient intermittent induction method can successfully establish a DOX-resistant AML cell line, THP1-Rdox. The drug resistance of this cell line is likely attributed to enhanced drug efflux mediated by the elevated expression of P-gp and LRP, as well as cell cycle dysregulation resulting from the upregulation of Cyclin D1 protein.
There is morphological overlap between nodular necrotizing fibroblastic sarcoma (NNFS) and myxoinflammatory fibroblastic sarcoma (MIFS). Whether they represent neoplasms within the same tumor spectrum remains unclear. We performed a comparative clinicopathological, molecular, and epigenetic study of these two tumors.We analyzed the clinicopathological features, immunophenotypes, and molecular profiles of three cases each of NNFS and MIFS. DNA methylation profiling was also performed.All three NNFS cases were located in the trunk, presenting as well-circumscribed subcutaneous nodules with central necrosis, whereas the three MIFS cases all arose in acral sites with an infiltrative or ill-defined growth pattern. Morphologically, both NNFS and MIFS were characterized by large polygonal to epithelioid cells with virocyte-like, ganglion cell-like, or Reed-Sternberg-like appearance. Unlike MIFS, NNFS did not exhibit prominent myxoid stroma or vacuolated pseudolipoblasts. On immunohistochemistry, NNFS cases uniformly showed focal positivity for pancytokeratin (AE1/AE3), whereas MIFS cases exhibited variable CD34 expression. Molecular analysis identified YAP1::MAML2 fusions in all three NNFS cases, while a BRAF rearrangement was detected in one of the three MIFS cases. DNA methylation profiling demonstrated that NNFS and MIFS cases clustered together forming a distinct group.Although NNFS and MIFS each harbor unique genetic alterations, our DNA methylation profiling demonstrates a potential relationship between these two morphologically similar entities.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42510656 is a review article
YAP1 fusions are well documented in pediatric central nervous system (CNS) tumors, particularly in supratentorial ependymomas and meningiomas where they are generally associated with a favorable prognosis. Outside these entities, YAP1 fusions have rarely been reported in gliomas or other high-grade neuroepithelial tumors. Here, we describe 2 high-grade neuroepithelial tumors harboring a recurrent YAP1::MAML2 fusion. Comprehensive histopathologic evaluation, immunohistochemistry, whole-exome sequencing using the SimcereDx neuro-oncology panel, and DNA methylation profiling were performed. Both tumors were IDH- and H3-wildtype and lacked canonical alterations in the RTK, TP53, or MAPK pathways. DNA methylation profiling did not match any established CNS tumor class. Histologically, both tumors demonstrated rhabdoid morphology accompanied by a prominent inflammatory microenvironment enriched in CD68- and CD163-positive macrophages. Despite sharing the same fusion event, the 2 tumors exhibited divergent morphologic and immunophenotypic features, indicating substantial heterogeneity. These findings suggest a potentially distinct, molecularly defined tumor subgroup characterized by YAP1::MAML2 fusion, high-grade neuroepithelial morphology, rhabdoid features, and an inflammatory microenvironment. They highlight the limitations of current methylation-based classification for such rare entities. Accurate diagnosis requires an integrated approach incorporating histologic features, clinical context, immunophenotype, and molecular alterations.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American Association of Neuropathologists, Inc. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
The limited efficacy of programmed death ligand-1 (PD-L1)/programmed death 1 (PD-1) immunotherapy remains a major challenge in bladder cancer (BC). Here, we identified Deltex E3 ubiquitin ligase 3 (DTX3) as a negative regulator of PD-L1 expression through whole-exome sequencing (WES) and functional screening. DTX3 overexpression inhibited CD3⁺CD8⁺ T cell apoptosis via the PD-1/PD-L1 axis, increased IFN-γ secretion, and enhanced the anti-tumor effect of anti-PD-1 monoclonal antibody (mAb). Mechanistically, DTX3 interacted with PD-L1 and promoted its polyubiquitination and proteasomal degradation. DTX3 overexpression combined with anti-PD-1 mAb produced significantly stronger anti-tumor effects than either monotherapy in syngeneic mouse models. Furthermore, DTX3 was identified as a direct target of miR-222, which is transcriptionally downregulated by p65. NF-κB activation decreased DTX3 expression and increased PD-L1 levels; combining a p65 inhibitor with DTX3 overexpression significantly reduced tumor growth in vivo. These findings demonstrate that DTX3 enhances anti-tumor immunity by inducing PD-L1 ubiquitination and is suppressed by the p65/miR-222 axis, highlighting DTX3 as a potential therapeutic target to improve immunotherapy efficacy in BC.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Mucoepidermoid carcinoma (MEC) of the breast is a very rare salivary gland-type tumor that is often missed by pathologists and may pose significant diagnostic challenges. We report two cases of breast MEC which both presented as breast masses. Core needle biopsies revealed moderately differentiated carcinomas (based on intermediate nuclear atypia) with squamous features and focal intra- and extracellular mucin production. Immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated that the tumor cells were positive for CK7, CK5/6, p63, GATA3, and TRPS1. They were negative for SOX10, estrogen receptor, progesterone receptor, and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2. Both patients underwent breast-conserving surgery. One patient also received an axillary lymph node excision. Histologic examination of the resected masses showed cystic components lined by squamous cells and occasional mucous cells, whereas the solid areas were predominantly composed of intermediate cells. Molecular testing demonstrated MAML2 gene rearrangement in both tumors, confirming the diagnosis of breast MEC. No adjuvant therapy was administered in either of the patients. Post-operative surveillance over 24 months showed no evidence of locoregional recurrence or distant metastasis. Recognition of this rare entity is important to avoid misdiagnosis and potential overtreatment of breast MEC as conventional triple negative breast carcinoma.© 2026 by the Association of Clinical Scientists, Inc.
Background: Sclerosing mucoepidermoid carcinoma with eosinophilia (SMECE) is an extremely rare thyroid tumor that frequently arises in association with chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis. We report a rare case of SMECE and mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma diagnosed simultaneously in the same thyroid gland. Case report: A man in his 60s with serological findings suggestive of Hashimoto's thyroiditis was referred to our hospital after a thyroid nodule was incidentally detected on carotid ultrasonography. Fine-needle aspiration cytology revealed clusters of intermediate-type epithelial cells with an eosinophil-rich inflammatory background. Left thyroid lobectomy was performed to establish a diagnosis. Results: Histologically, the tumor showed dense stromal sclerosis with nests of squamoid cells, intermediate-type cells, and mucin-producing cells, accompanied by marked eosinophilic infiltration. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated positivity for CK5/6, p63, and CK19 and negativity for thyroglobulin and TTF-1. Fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis revealed no MAML2 gene rearrangement. Chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis was present in the surrounding thyroid tissue, along with extranodal marginal zone lymphoma of the MALT. Conclusion: This case suggests that chronic inflammatory conditions associated with Hashimoto's thyroiditis may have contributed to the tumorigenesis of both the epithelial and lymphoid components. Recognizing this rare coexistence is important for accurate pathological diagnosis.©2026 The Japanese Association of Rural Medicine.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42482881 is a review article
Pediatric WHO grade 3 meningiomas are rare, aggressive tumors with limited population-specific outcome data. We performed an individual patient-level systematic review to characterize clinical features, management patterns, and survival outcomes in this high-risk pediatric population.A systematic review was conducted with PRISMA guidelines. Studies reporting patient-level clinical data for pediatric patients diagnosed with WHO grade 3 meningioma were included.Fifty-seven studies encompassing 74 patients were included. Median age at diagnosis was 9 years (range 0.38-17), with near-equal sex distribution (54% female). Median symptom duration prior to diagnosis was 2 months (range 0.1-96). Common presenting symptoms were headache (49%), nausea/vomiting (31%), and motor deficits (26%). Molecular alterations were reported in eight cases, commonly involving NF2 mutations (n = 3) and YAP1:MAML2 fusions (n = 2). Gross total resection (GTR) was achieved in 60% of cases reporting extent of resection (38/63), with convexity tumors more likely to achieve GTR (χ2 = 5.15, p = 0.023; ϕ = 0.29). Kaplan-Meier analysis demonstrated significantly improved overall and progression-free survival following GTR compared with subtotal resection (OS log-rank p = 0.002; PFS log-rank p = 0.013). Adjuvant therapy was administered in 65% of cases with data, although an independent association with improved survival after adjustment for time-dependent effects was not identified in this cohort.Pediatric WHO grade 3 meningiomas demonstrate aggressive clinical behavior with poor survival relative to lower grade disease. Given the vulnerable patient population, our findings highlight the need for multicenter collaboration with standardized reporting and molecular profiling to define optimal management strategies for this rare and challenging pediatric tumor.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Head and neck sarcomas (HNS) are rare, heterogeneous malignancies representing less than 1% of head and neck cancers. Their complex anatomy and overlapping morphologies pose significant challenges for traditional diagnosis. We aimed to evaluate the clinical utility of next-generation sequencing (NGS) within a tertiary referral centre and synthesise these findings with current global molecular standards. We conducted a retrospective review of an original, previously unpublished, cohort of 12 patients with histologically verified HNS treated at University College London Hospital (UCLH) between 2023 and 2024. Molecular profiling included targeted DNA (RMH200) and RNA-fusion panels. This was supplemented by a qualitative synthesis of 16 key studies (2010-2026) identified through a systematic search strategy. In the institutional cohort, NGS provided definitive diagnostic or therapeutic clarification in 66% of cases (8/12). Key findings included the identification of pathognomonic fusions (such as EWSR1::FLI1, PAX3::MAML3), a novel MAMLD1::VGLL3 fusion, and actionable variants such as BRAF V600E and MYOD1. Furthermore, the formal exclusion of Neurotrophic tropomyosin receptor kinase (NTRK) fusions in some cases allowed for therapeutic streamlining. Literature synthesis aligned these results and emphasised the need for NGS for more accurate diagnosis and adequate treatment. NGS is a clinical necessity in the management of ultra-rare HNS. By transitioning from traditional morphology to high-resolution molecular interrogation, clinicians can resolve diagnostic ambiguity and identify targeted therapeutic pathways. Integration with emerging 2026 standards, including epigenetic classification and liquid biopsy monitoring, represents the future of precision surgery in head and neck sarcoma.Copyright © 2026 The British Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeons. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Worldwide, diabetic retinopathy (DR) stands as a leading cause of vision loss. However, the involvement of PANoptosis-a form of inflammatory cell death that combines features of apoptosis, pyroptosis, and necroptosis-in the development of DR has not been fully elucidated. This study investigated the molecular mechanisms underlying high glucose (HG)-induced PANoptosis in human retinal microvascular endothelial cells (hRMECs), focusing on the scavenger receptor CD36 and NOTCH/MAML signaling. HG specifically induced PANoptosis in hRMECs, evidenced by concurrent activation of apoptotic, pyroptotic, and necroptotic markers, along with PANoptosome complex formation and morphological validation via terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) staining. HG significantly upregulated CD36 expression and activated the NOTCH/MAML pathway. CD36 overexpression exacerbated PANoptosis by enhancing cell death, inflammatory responses, and oxidative stress, whereas CD36 knockdown conferred protection. Mechanistically, CD36 promoted PANoptosome assembly through NOTCH/MAML pathway activation, as demonstrated by increased NICD-MAML1 nuclear colocalization and enhanced NOTCH component expression. We further verified that the CD36-NOTCH axis regulates PANoptosis through the modulation of NLRP3, a core component of the PANoptosome. Pharmacological NOTCH inhibition using DAPT ameliorated HG-induced PANoptosis, whereas NOTCH activation mimicked CD36 overexpression effects. These results establish a novel CD36-NOTCH/MAML-NLRP3-PANoptosis regulatory pathway in diabetic retinal endothelial cells. This discovery provides crucial insights into DR pathogenesis and pinpoints potential targets for therapeutic intervention.Copyright © 2026 Rongfeng Dai et al. Journal of Diabetes Research published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Colon adenocarcinoma (COAD) is a prevalent gastrointestinal malignancy characterized by dysregulation of multiple cellular signaling pathways, including the Notch pathway. However, the specific biological roles of Notch3 and Notch4 in COAD remain incompletely characterized.We aimed to investigate the effects of Notch3 and Notch4 downregulation on the tumor immune microenvironment and angiogenesis in COAD. Using a combination of in vitro and in vivo models, we evaluated the impacts of Notch3/4 interference on cell proliferation, migration, immune cell infiltration, and tumor progression.Interfering with Notch3 and 4 significantly suppressed subcutaneous tumor progression. Notably, this inhibition was not only associated with reduced cell viability, but also with an altered immune environment characterized by enhanced macrophage M1 polarization and T lymphocyte activation, which may be linked to the c-Myc/VEGFA signaling axis but requires further mechanistic validation. Furthermore, the combination of regorafenib and Notch3/4 knockout (KO) exerted enhanced anti-tumor effects. More importantly, Mol_2, a candidate compound with predicted binding affinity for both Notch3 and Notch4, was screened out to significantly reduce the protein levels of Notch3 and Notch4 and tumor progression.Our findings suggest that targeting Notch3 and Notch4 receptors may have therapeutic potential for modulating the tumor microenvironment and suppressing tumor progression in COAD.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Biphenotypic sinonasal sarcoma (BSNS) typically demonstrates expression of both neural and myogenic markers while harboring PAX3 gene fusions. Reported fusion partners include MAML3, NCOA1, NCOA2, FOXO1, FOXO6, WWTR1, and YAP1. Herein, we report two additional cases of BSNS harboring PAX3::FOXO6 gene fusions to aid in variant classification.Patient 1 was a 37-year-old female and patient 2 was 56-year-old male with BSNS involving the right nasal cavity and left middle turbinate, respectively. Both sarcomas were unencapsulated infiltrative spindle cell neoplasms that demonstrated morphologic features of BSNS. Case 1 demonstrated variable aberrant nuclear accumulation of beta-catenin protein and lacked expression of SMA and S100 protein. Positive reactions were observed with SMA and S100 protein in case 2. RNA sequencing identified PAX3::FOXO6 (exon 7::exon 2) in both cases.The sinonasal location, morphology, and immunophenotype allow for discrimination against competing entities in most cases. In select cases genetic evaluation becomes necessary and to further aid in variant classification and to provide additional support for this rare finding we provide two examples of BSNS harboring PAX3::FOXO6.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Ependymomas are glial tumors that exhibit high resistance to chemotherapy. ZFTA-fusion-positive supratentorial ependymoma (ST-EPN-ZFTA) represents a subclass with a poor prognosis. ST-EPN-ZFTA expresses fusion proteins, which consist of zinc finger translocation-associated (ZFTA) combined with a transcriptional regulator, predominantly RELA. Unlike wild-type RELA, which translocates to the nucleus in a stimulus-dependent manner, ZFTA-RELA constitutively localizes to the nucleus and induces oncogenic gene expression. To identify inhibitors of this aberrant gene expression, 9600 structurally diverse compounds were screened using a ZFTA-RELA-responsive luciferase reporter system. The screen identified a colchicine derivative, and subsequent evaluation revealed colchicine, a microtubule polymerization inhibitor, as the most potent inhibitor (IC50 of 90 nM). Colchicine attenuated ZFTA-RELA-upregulated endogenous genes, including L1CAM. Colchicine and another microtubule polymerization inhibitor, vinblastine, partially inhibited ZFTA-RELA nuclear localization, similar to the dynein motor protein inhibitors, ciliobrevin D and dynarrestin. This inhibition was mediated through the RELA region of ZFTA-RELA, indicating that RELA retains its microtubule-dependent nuclear import machinery, even in a fusion scenario. Among other ZFTA-fusion proteins, colchicine reduced nuclear localization of ZFTA-NCOA2 and ZFTA-MKL2, but not ZFTA-MAML2 and ZFTA-MAML3. In these fusion proteins, we identified three candidate nuclear localization signals (NLS) exhibiting colchicine-sensitive nuclear localization activity, two within the ZFTA regions absent in ZFTA-RELA and one within MKL2. The results indicate that the microtubule dependence of nuclear localization varies among different ZFTA-fusion partners, which may be attributable to unique NLS sequences in each fusion protein. Our results suggest that microtubule-dependent nuclear transport represents a therapeutic target in ZFTA-fusion-positive tumors.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Biphenotypic sinonasal sarcoma (BSNS) is a rare, low-grade spindle cell sarcoma of the sinonasal tract. It is characterized by dual neural and myogenic differentiation and classically shows fusions involving PAX3. MAML3, a co-activator in the Notch signaling pathway, is the most common fusion partner of PAX3. Here, we describe the first reported case, to our knowledge, of BSNS harboring a novel PAX3::MAML2 fusion in a polypoid lesion arising from the left ethmoid of a 61-year-old man. Microscopically, the tumor demonstrated bland spindle cell morphology. The cells were arranged in small fascicles and a vaguely whorled pattern without mitotic activity or cellular atypia. Immunohistochemistry displayed characteristic co-expression of S100 and smooth muscle actin as well as patchy nuclear positivity for beta-catenin. SOX10, AE1/AE3, EMA, and CD34 were negative. Ki-67 was expressed in less than 1% of tumor cells, consistent with a low-grade lesion. The RNA sequencing identified a novel PAX3::MAML2 fusion transcript. MAML2 fusion is commonly associated with other head and neck neoplasms, including mucoepidermoid carcinoma and NR1D1-rearranged tumors. These findings highlight the value of comprehensive fusion testing in BSNS and emphasize the evolving fusion landscape in this entity and related tumors.© 2026 The Author(s). Genes, Chromosomes and Cancer published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Tumor-associated endothelial cells (TAECs) are integral components of the clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) microenvironment, but their gene expression-based prognostic value and functional relevance remain to be defined.Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data from 7 ccRCC tumors and 5 normal adjacent tissues (GSE156632) were analyzed to identify TAEC subcluster marker genes. A TAEC phenotype score was calculated in the TCGA-ccRCC cohort (n=516) based on the average expression of these markers. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) was performed to identify gene modules correlated with this score, and module genes were intersected with differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between TCGA tumor and normal tissues. A prognostic risk signature was constructed using LASSO-Cox regression and validated in an external cohort (ICGC RECA-EU + GSE29609). Associations with immune infiltration, pathway activity and drug sensitivity were analyzed. APOLD1-centered pathway analysis was performed using GSVA and PROGENy. Functional validation included qRT-PCR, Western blot, immunofluorescence, Transwell assays, and xenograft models (n=5 mice/group).scRNA-seq revealed 8 distinct TAECs subclusters. Integration with TCGA data identified 61 critical TAECs-related genes after intersecting tumor-related DEGs with WGCNA yellow module genes. A 5-gene prognostic signature (TEK, APOLD1, F2RL3, COL5A3, CD248) was established. The model stratified patients into high/low-risk groups with significant survival differences (P<0.0001), achieving 1-/2-/3-year AUCs of 0.755, 0.713, and 0.736 in the TCGA cohort, with external validation AUCs of 0.712, 0.708, and 0.702 in the merged ICGC/GEO cohort. High-risk tumors exhibited metabolic reprogramming (suppressed PPAR signaling), an immunosuppressive TME (enriched M0 macrophages, Tregs, upregulated non-PD-L1 immune checkpoints), and reduced tumor purity. Low-risk tumors retained fatty acid metabolism and anti-tumor immune activation. Drug sensitivity analysis predicted differential sensitivity to targeted therapies and chemotherapeutics between risk groups. APOLD1 was upregulated in ccRCC endothelia (qRT-PCR/Western blot) and induced by ccRCC cell lines (786-O, Caki-1) culture medium in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). APOLD1-high tumors showed enhanced focal adhesion, TGF-β, MAPK, and PI3K pathway activities, and APOLD1 expression was positively correlated with endothelial and angiogenesis-related genes, including KDR, TEK, FLT1, PECAM1, CDH5, VWF, EMCN, ROBO4, and NOTCH4. In HUVECs, ccRCC cell-conditioned medium induced APOLD1 expression, whereas APOLD1 knockdown attenuated SMAD2/3 and ERK phosphorylation. Functionally, APOLD1 knockdown in HUVECs suppressed ccRCC migration/invasion in vitro and xenograft growth in vivo, whereas APOLD1 overexpression in HUVECs promoted ccRCC migration and invasion, further confirming its pro-tumorigenic role.This study developed a five-gene prognostic signature (TEK, APOLD1, F2RL3, COL5A3, CD248) associated with tumor-associated endothelial cells in clear cell renal cell carcinoma. The signature stratified patients into distinct risk groups with significant differences in overall survival, and its predictive performance was validated in external cohorts. Functional experiments indicated that APOLD1 is upregulated in ccRCC endothelial cells and contributes to tumor progression, suggesting it as a candidate for further investigation. Future studies are needed to translate these findings into clinical applications for high-risk ccRCC patients.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42379678
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42379677
best4 + cells are a recently described vertebrate intestinal epithelial cell type. best4 + cells are altered in inflammatory bowel disease and colorectal cancer, suggesting that stimulation of their homeostatic replenishment may have therapeutic potential. However, the development and function of best4 + cells remain unclear. Since mice lack best4 + cells, we established zebrafish as a tractable in vivo model to observe, manipulate, and remove best4 + cells in an organismal context. We dissected best4 + cell developmental regulation in vivo from birth to differentiation and specialization, focusing on factors conserved in best4 + cells across vertebrates. Lineage tracing demonstrated that best4 + cells arise from secretory progenitors, where Notch/Dll4 signaling mediates a decision between best4 + and enterochromaffin cells by triggering meis1b expression. Following specification by meis1b, pbx3a spatially diversifies best4 + cells, which develop regional heterogeneity in gene expression, intracellular pH, and function. In vivo live imaging and removal of best4 + cells showed that best4+ cells sense luminal pH changes and extend dynamic luminal and stromal projections, but are not required to restore global luminal pH after challenge. Altogether, this study experimentally delineates best4 + cell developmental regulation and develops a genetic toolkit to examine their function in vivo, both of which will aid investigating how best4 + cells are altered or can be restored during disease.Published by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press.
Pulmonary carcinoid (PC) is a rare, well-differentiated neuroendocrine tumor of the lung. In patients with metastatic disease, systemic therapies typically have low response rates, and long-term survival is poor. PC frequently expresses DLL3, but whether it responds to the DLL3-targeted bispecific T-cell engager tarlatamab is unknown.We analyzed 11 patients with DLL3-high PC treated with tarlatamab at Memorial Sloan Kettering. Tumor response was assessed using RECIST v 1.1.Response rate was 8/11 (73%), including one patient with central nervous system-only disease, and disease control rate was 11/11 (100%). All patients experienced reduction of their measurable disease. One patient had progressed at time of data cutoff and median progression-free survival was not reached. Cytokine release syndrome (CRS) occurred in cycle 1 in 9/11 (82%) patients including 2 with grade 3 CRS.Tarlatamab demonstrated a high response rate in PC. Cytokine release syndrome was common. Tarlatamab is a promising treatment option for patients with PC.Copyright © 2026 International Association for the Study of Lung Cancer. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42556480 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42537626 is a review article
Osteoarthritis (OA) involves cartilage degradation and subchondral bone alterations, yet the mechanisms of chondro-endothelial crosstalk remain unclear. Stress-sensitive Piezo1 and SP1/Angptl7 signaling may play key roles in this process. This research aimed to investigate whether Platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF)-BB regulates chondro-endothelial crosstalk via Piezo1-mediated SP1/Angptl7 inhibition.Single- and multiple-cell-component organoids (chondrocytes SW1353 and endothelial HMEC-1) were constructed using high-throughput 3D culture. Organoids were treated with MIA to induce OA-like changes, followed by PDGF-BB with or without Yoda1 (Piezo1 activator) or Angptl7. In vivo, OA was induced in rats by intraarticular MIA injection, and PDGF-BB or sodium hyaluronate (SH)-PDGF was administered. Histology and immunofluorescence were used to assess F-actin formation, Piezo1 activation, SP1 phosphorylation, Angptl7 and VEGF/Notch/DLL4 expression.PDGF-BB inhibited F-actin formation and reduced Piezo1 activation in OA chondrocytes. It suppressed SP1 phosphorylation and Angptl7 expression, downregulating VEGF/Notch/DLL4 signaling and reducing endothelial invasion in organoids. These effects were partially reversed by Yoda1 and fully reversed by Angptl7. In vivo, PDGF-BB and SH-PDGF attenuated cartilage degeneration and reduced Piezo1 activation, SP1 phosphorylation, and Angptl7 expression.PDGF-BB alleviates OA by inhibiting SP1/Angptl7-mediated chondro-endothelial crosstalk, partially via stress-sensitive Piezo1 regulation through cytoskeletal remodeling. Multiple-cell-component organoids provide a valuable in vitro model for studying cartilage pathophysiology.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Cheng, Li, Zhang, Zhu and Cai.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42527846 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42523863 is a review article
Glioblastoma (GBM) remains the most aggressive primary brain tumor and is associated with a dismal prognosis despite maximal multimodal therapy. Targeted radionuclide therapy requires a tumor-selective, cell-surface-accessible molecular target that is highly expressed in GBM but minimally present in normal brain tissue.We integrated transcriptomic profiling, differential expression analysis, LASSO regression, gradient boosting, SHAP interpretation, structural modeling, molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulation, peptide synthesis, and fluorescence-based validation to identify a GBM-associated membrane target and develop a corresponding cyclic peptide ligand. Public GBM and normal brain transcriptomic datasets were obtained from TCGA, GTEx, and CGGA. Candidate genes were prioritized using machine learning and structural criteria, followed by systematic peptide design and computational refinement.DLL3 was identified as a top candidate target with high discriminative power and prognostic relevance in GBM. A cyclic peptide candidate, IMP-3, displayed favorable predicted binding to the DLL3 extracellular domain and stable interaction during molecular dynamics simulation. The probe-labeled derivative MPA-IMP-3 selectively accumulated in GBM cells and showed significantly stronger fluorescence signals than in normal astrocytes, supporting DLL3-associated targeting specificity.We identified DLL3 as a promising GBM-associated membrane target and developed a cyclic peptide ligand with selective binding potential. This integrated AI-driven workflow provides a rational framework for the development of targeted theranostic strategies in GBM.Copyright © 2026 Xu, Huang, Li, Yan, Cui, Zhao, Chen, Chen, Liu, Zhou, Ni, Zhang, Wang, Zeng, Xiong and Liu.
EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors are the standard treatment for EGFR-mutated lung cancer, but acquired resistance frequently develops through diverse mechanisms, including histologic transformation. We report a rare case of EGFR-mutated lung adenocarcinoma with an initial SCLC component that revealed marked lineage plasticity during treatment. A 38-year-old woman underwent left upper lobectomy for EGFR exon 19 deletion-positive lung adenocarcinoma with combined SCLC. After surgery, she received osimertinib and adjuvant cisplatin plus etoposide. After 6 years, pleural dissemination progressed, and biopsy result revealed recurrent SCLC without an adenocarcinoma component. The recurrent SCLC had DLL3 expression in approximately 80% of the tumor cells. Carboplatin plus etoposide and amrubicin were ineffective, whereas third-line tarlatamab induced the disappearance of liver metastases and disease control for 10 months. At progression, biopsy result of a recurrent liver lesion demonstrated sarcomatoid carcinoma with a complete loss of DLL3 expression. Genomic analyses revealed a shared TP53 p.H168P mutation across sequential specimens, whereas the recurrent SCLC and tarlatamab-resistant sarcomatoid carcinoma lacked the original EGFR p.E746_A750del-mutant allele. This case highlights dynamic histologic and molecular evolution in EGFR-mutated lung cancer and suggests that tarlatamab resistance may involve the selection of DLL3-negative clones.© 2026 The Authors.
Infantile myofibroma (IM) is the most common congenital fibrous tumor of infancy, originating from fibroblasts and myofibroblasts and present at birth in approximately 50%-60% of cases. Solitary IMs most often develop in the head and neck, less frequently on the trunk or extremities, and usually have an excellent prognosis in the absence of visceral involvement. Clinically, IM appears as a painless, firm, bluish-purple, freely mobile nodule and may occasionally show ulceration or skin atrophy, clinically mimicking hemangioma. Imaging typically shows well-defined masses with low-flow or peripheral vascularity, distinguishing them from highly vascular hemangiomas. Although solitary lesions may spontaneously regress within 18-24 months, surgical excision is advised when diagnosis is uncertain, functional risk exists, or for cosmetic or psychosocial reasons. Multicentric IM without visceral involvement also has a favorable outcome, whereas lesions with visceral involvement carry significantly higher morbidity and mortality. Mutations in PDGFRB and, less commonly, NOTCH3 are reported in IM and may guide future targeted therapies. In the absence of standardized guidelines, management must be individualized, with options including observation, surgical excision, and chemotherapy for extensive or visceral disease. Regular clinical and imaging follow-up is essential until lesion stabilization or regression is confirmed. Here, we present a female neonate with a scalp IM. Persistent ulceration, recurrent bleeding, inability to definitively exclude malignancy on imaging, and significant maternal distress warranted the decision for surgical excision. This case emphasizes the importance of individualized care in IM, guided by current literature on presentation, pathology, and treatment.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. on behalf of The American Society of Plastic Surgeons.
Patients with kidney stones (KS) often have an increased risk of atherosclerosis (AS). Because endothelial dysfunction (ED) is closely associated with AS, its role in KS remains unclear. This study aimed to examine the roles and mechanisms of AS-related ED genes in KS. Three datasets (GSE73680, GSE117518, and GSE132651) were analyzed. Differential expression analysis was conducted to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs). To identify potential biomarkers, least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression analysis and expression validation were conducted. Further analyses including GeneMANIA, gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), examination of biomarkers within immune cells and subcellular localization analysis, molecular regulatory network analysis, tissue specificity analysis, and competing endogenous (ceRNA) network analysis were employed to comprehensively explore the functions and regulatory mechanisms of the identified biomarkers. Moreover, drug prediction analysis was conducted. Finally, reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) was proceeded to verify the expression levels of the biomarkers. A total of 22 DEGs associated with KS and AS were identified. Lasso regression selected 4 candidate biomarkers (MMP10, UCHL1, NEK2, and HEY1), among which UCHL1 and NEK2 were validated as key biomarkers. GeneMANIA and GSEA analyses uncovered the potential involvement of these biomarkers in cell adhesion molecules, focal adhesion, and lysosome pathways. Analysis of immune cells and subcellular localization provided insight into the biological functions and intracellular distribution of the biomarkers. Transcription factor regulatory network and ceRNA network analyses elucidated potential upstream regulatory mechanisms. Drug prediction analysis identified 17 potential drugs, including pazopanib and palbociclib, that may target NEK2. RT-qPCR demonstrated that NEK2 was significantly overexpressed in KS samples. This study identified biomarkers associated with KS and AS and comprehensively analyzed their molecular regulatory networks. These findings provide novel understandings of the molecular mechanism underlying KS and lay the foundation for future personalized treatment and drug development.Copyright: © 2026 Li et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL), an autosomal dominant cerebrovascular disorder caused by NOTCH3 variants. Although more than 400 NOTCH3 variants have been reported, exon 20 variants remain rare, and clinical characterization is limited. We report a 39-year-old Chinese male with recurrent lacunar infarctions involving the brainstem, basal ganglia, and corona radiata. He had right-sided hemiplegia and cognitive deficits, without dizziness, headache, dysphagia, or dysarthria. His mother and maternal uncle had a history of ischemic stroke. Genetic testing identified a heterozygous NOTCH3 c.3313G > T (p.Gly1105Cys) variant in exon 20 (NM_000435.3), classified as likely pathogenic according to the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics (ACMG) criteria. Alongside adjusted medications for secondary stroke prevention, he received acupuncture and physical rehabilitation, followed by an improvement in mood and motor function. We also reviewed NOTCH3 exon 20 variants and found marked phenotypic heterogeneity across variants and populations. Migraine appears less frequent among Chinese carriers than in Western cohorts, whereas cognitive impairment may occur relatively early. Radiologically, temporal pole white matter hyperintensities were absent in our patient and other Chinese carriers of NOTCH3 variants in epidermal growth factor-like repeat (EGFr) domain 28, but reported in some with domain 27 variants. Although p.Gly1105Cys is located in a low-risk EGFr domain according to recent domain-based stratification models, our patient developed early-onset recurrent stroke, highlighting individual clinical variability. This case provides a detailed clinical and imaging description of CADASIL associated with NOTCH3 c.3313G > T (p.Gly1105Cys) and expands understanding of genotype-phenotype correlations among exon 20 variants.© 2026. Fondazione Società Italiana di Neurologia.
Papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) typically exhibits a favorable prognosis; however, lymph node and distant metastases continue to present significant clinical challenges. Plectin isoform 1d (PLEC 1d) contributes to myofiber integrity and is implicated in cytoskeletal organization and cancer cell motility, but its role in PTC progression is largely unknown. In this study, PLEC 1d expression was examined by RT-PCR in three PTC cell lines (MDA-T32, MDA-T41, MDA-T120) and normal thyroid cells (Nthy-ori-3-1). CRISPR-Cas9-mediated knockdown (KD) of PLEC 1d was performed in MDA-T41 cells, with KD efficiency confirmed by RT-qPCR. Cell proliferation and migration were assessed using EdU incorporation and wound-healing assays, respectively. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) combined with RT-qPCR and Western blotting was employed to identify downstream targets. Accordingly, PLEC 1d mRNA and total plectin protein levels were substantially elevated only in MDA-T41 cells. PLEC 1d KD reduced proliferation by 6.6% and migration by 26%. Transcriptomic analysis revealed 170 differentially expressed genes, including significant downregulation of LAMA4, MMP1, and HEY1. HEY1 downregulation was confirmed at both mRNA and protein levels. Although LAMA4 and MMP1 were also downregulated following PLEC 1d KD, LAMA4 mRNA expression varied across PTC cell lines, suggesting cell-line-specific regulation. Notably, MMP1 was consistently upregulated at the mRNA level in all PTC cell lines, while HEY1 showed elevated expression at both the transcript and protein levels. Collectively, these findings indicate that PLEC 1d enhances cell migration and may contribute to cellular processes associated with metastatic behavior in a subset of PTC cells, potentially through a HEY1-dependent mechanism.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42502047
This study aims to present novel compound heterozygous PROC gene variants in a fetus. These variants cause protein C deficiency-associated thrombophilia and are accompanied by prenatal ocular anomalies in the affected fetus.A fetus presenting with prenatal ocular ultrasound anomalies was enrolled for genetic prenatal diagnosis. Trio whole-exome sequencing (WES) was performed on the fetus and parental samples to explore the genetic etiology. Sanger sequencing was subsequently applied to verify the identified genetic variants.WES result revealed two likely pathogenic compound heterozygous variants NM_000312.4: c.[378G>A(p.W126*)]; [658C>T(p.R220W)] in PROC gene in the fetus, which were inherited from the parents, respectively. Notably, a likely pathogenic homozygous variant of NM_176824.3:c.728G>A(p.C243Y) in BBS7 gene, and a heterozygous variant of NM_012193.4:c.112G>A(p.G38R) in FZD4 gene, as well as a pathogenic heterozygous variant of NM_000435.3:c.1630C>T(p.R544C) in NOTCH3 gene were observed in the mother, which may explain her clinical abnormalities. The maternal BBS7 variant was transmitted to the fetus, whereas the FZD4 and NOTCH3 variants were not detected in the proband. The father exhibited a clinical phenotype of cleft lip and palate, but no corresponding pathogenic genetic variants were identified.This study first reports two rare compound heterozygous PROC variants in a Chinese fetus, which expands the mutational spectrum of protein C deficiency-related thrombophilia in the Chinese population. Furthermore, our findings highlight the robust clinical application value of trio-WES in the etiological diagnosis of complex prenatal genetic disorders.© 2026 The Author(s). Molecular Genetics & Genomic Medicine published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Pulmonary alveolar proteinosis (PAP) is a rare pulmonary syndrome characterized by impaired surfactant clearance, driven by dysfunctional cholesterol efflux in alveolar macrophages (AMs). However, the molecular determinants governing AM cholesterol homeostasis remain incompletely defined. Here, through a genome-wide CRISPR screen in foamy macrophages and bulk RNA sequencing of AMs from PAP patients, we identify DTX4 as a pivotal regulator of cholesterol efflux in AMs. In mice, AAV-mediated silencing of DTX4 led to excessive AM lipid accumulation, exacerbated proteinosis, increased lung opacities, and deteriorated pulmonary function. Similarly, DTX4 depletion in primary AMs impaired cholesterol efflux and promoted intracellular lipid deposition. Conversely, AM-specific overexpression of DTX4 in the Csf2ra-/- PAP model markedly alleviated lipid accumulation, mitigated alveolar proteinosis, restored lung densities, and rescued pulmonary function. Mechanistically, DTX4 stabilizes the GM-CSF receptor via an E3-independent interaction to sustain JAK2/STAT5 signaling, which reciprocally maintains DTX4 transcription. This positive-feedback loop drives PPARγ expression, and its disruption in PAP impairs cholesterol efflux, a defect partially reversible by ectopic PPARγ expression. Collectively, our findings identify DTX4 as a central orchestrator of AM cholesterol efflux and surfactant homeostasis, positioning it as a promising therapeutic target for PAP.
Cerebral small vessel diseases (CSVDs) are a group of disorders affecting the small arteries, veins, and capillaries supplying the white matter and deep grey matter structures. They are the most common form of cerebrovascular disease, accounting for approximately half of vascular dementia cases and 20% of stroke incidence. Whilst genetic testing is a routine diagnostic tool for monogenic CSVDs, less than 20% of patients have a causal variant in known CSVD genes. We performed whole exome sequencing on 117 patients suspected of monogenic CSVD who previously tested negative for pathogenic variants in seven well-characterised CSVD genes (NOTCH3, HTRA1, COL4A1, COL4A2, TREX1, GLA, and FOXC1). Targeted analysis was conducted on known and associated CSVD genes, as well as candidate genes which cause conditions with overlapping symptomology to CSVD. Burden analysis focussing on rare, functional variants was used to identify novel associations when compared against a cohort of 1035 non-neurological controls. We identified 18 suspected disease-causing variants across nine CSVD-associated genes and a significant burden of both rare and rare, likely disease-causing heterozygous variants in ABCC6. Two genes from stroke and neurodegenerative disease gene panels also possessed a significant burden of rare, likely disease-causing variants, MYH11 (adjusted P = 1 × 10-2) and NOTCH1 (adjusted P = 1 × 10-2). We further identified novel associations for seven genes (COL7A1, HMCN1, LAMA1, MMP9, TENM4, TNC, TTN) with monogenic CSVD in this cohort. Our findings implicate several genes as potentially causal of monogenic CSVD, highlighting the need for more extensive genetic screening in suspected CSVD cases, and functional characterisation of implicated variants to determine their mechanistic role in CSVD pathogenesis.© 2026. The Author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42481319
Docetaxel (DTX) resistance remains a major barrier in metastatic prostate cancer, often driven by ABCB1 efflux and activation of survival pathways. We investigated the therapeutic impact of itraconazole (ITZ), a multifunctional antifungal agent with activity against Hedgehog/GLI signalling and ABCB1 efflux, in DTX-resistant prostate cancer xenograft models (PC3R and DU145R). Tumour growth was analysed longitudinally, metastatic burden assessed by hCD44-positive micrometastasis enumeration, and pharmacodynamic responses evaluated through Ki-67 indexes, necrotic fractions, and Gli1 expression. Neither DTX alone, ITZ alone, nor their combination reduced primary tumour growth or cumulative tumour burden. However, the combination suppressed development of lung micrometastases in both models. ITZ and DTX+ITZ reduced Ki-67 and Gli1 levels, demonstrating inhibition of proliferation and Hedgehog signalling despite the absence of tumour shrinkage. ITZ monotherapy was well tolerated, whereas DTX-containing regimens produced expected systemic toxicity. These results indicate antimetastatic and pathway-modulating activity of ITZ in resistant prostate cancer and support its further evaluation as a rational adjunct to taxanes in treatment contexts where metastatic control is a key therapeutic objective.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42562963 is a review article
Next-generation HER2-targeted therapies including tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) and antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs) improve survival of HER2-positive cancer patients. However, mechanisms of primary and acquired resistance remain unclear. Here, we reported that primary HER2-specific targeted therapy (tucatinib) resistant or sensitive breast cancers derived from clinical trial patients exhibited differential protein profiles. Prolonged tucatinib exposure induced autophagy pathway enrichment in HER2-positive breast cancer cells. Integrated high-throughput analyses identified A-kinase anchoring protein (AKAP)13 as a critical molecule involved in both primary and acquired resistance and an independent predictor of poor prognosis. Silencing of AKAP13 significantly diminished novel HER2-targeted therapies resistance. Mechanistically, AKAP13 inhibits autophagosome formation by suppressing the expression of ULK1, a kinase essential for autophagy initiation. ULK1 transcription is driven by GLI1, which binds to the ULK1 promoter via its arginine-592 residue. We further elucidated that the RhoGEF domain of AKAP13 activates RhoA, which subsequently triggers the activation of PKA anchored to AKAP13. The activated PKA then inhibits the nuclear translocation of GLI1, thereby repressing its transcriptional activity on ULK1. In vivo and in vitro experiments demonstrated the synergistic efficacy of tucatinib and AKAP13 inhibitor A13. In the validation phase, organoids were constructed using tissue obtained via puncture from patients resistant to trastuzumab deruxtecan, confirming upregulation of AKAP13 and A13-mediated reversal of resistance to novel HER2-targeted therapies. Collectively, these findings highlight the role of AKAP13 in drug resistance and propose A13 as a promising therapeutic strategy for HER2-positive breast cancer. Model diagram of this study and proposed molecular mechanisms.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
IDH-wildtype glioblastoma exhibits substantial biological heterogeneity despite current molecular classification. Although dynamic malignant cell states have been described, molecular features that position tumors along these states remain incompletely defined. We investigated whether ZIC3 expression identifies a transcriptional state associated with clinical outcome in IDH-wildtype glioblastoma.RNA sequencing and clinical data from The Cancer Genome Atlas glioblastoma cohort were analyzed after restriction to genomically confirmed IDH-wildtype tumors (n = 167). Survival analyses were performed in patients with available survival data (n = 161) using Cox proportional hazards regression and Kaplan-Meier analysis. Associations with MGMT promoter methylation, tumor microenvironment scores, differential expression, gene set enrichment, and single-cell RNA sequencing data were evaluated to characterize transcriptional programs associated with ZIC3 expression.Higher ZIC3 expression was associated with longer overall and progression-free survival and remained associated with a more favorable survival profile after adjustment for age, sex, radiotherapy, and temozolomide treatment. ZIC3 expression was not associated with MGMT promoter methylation or with ESTIMATE-derived stromal, immune, or composite scores. In the single-cell dataset, ZIC3-positive cells were more frequent in malignant tumor cells than in non-malignant cells. ZIC3-high tumors showed enrichment of neural lineage-associated and blood-brain barrier-related programs, whereas ZIC3-low tumors showed enrichment of hypoxia-related, glycolytic, and metabolic stress programs. Ordered heatmap analysis showed that lineage-associated genes and hypoxia-related genes varied inversely across tumors ordered by ZIC3 expression.ZIC3 expression appears to mark a developmental transcriptional axis in IDH-wildtype glioblastoma that links neural lineage-associated programs to hypoxia-adaptive tumor states.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.
Hedgehog (HH) signaling plays a complex role in epithelial-stromal interactions, but its effects on gastrointestinal stem cells mediated by heterogeneous stromal cell populations remain incompletely defined. Here, we investigate how stromal HH signaling regulates gastric stem cells and tumorigenesis in a segment-specific manner.We genetically activated HH signaling in distinct stromal cell lineages using Col1a2-, Pdgfra-, Gli1-, Acta2-, and Prrx1-CreERT mouse lines, combined with lineage tracing, RNA-seq, ChIP-qPCR, and pharmacological interventions. Human gastric cancer data from TCGA were also analyzed.We show that genetic activation of HH signaling in stromal cells marked by Col1a2, Pdgfra, or Gli1, but not by Acta2, induces tumorigenesis in the stomach and gastroesophageal junction, but not in small or large intestine. HH signaling increases the expression of multiple BMP antagonists in gastric but not colonic stromal cells, via Gli1-mediated transcription. These BMP antagonists in turn activate Wnt/β-catenin signaling in gastric stem cells, driving their proliferation and initiating gastric cancer expressing CD44 and Sox9, but not Lgr5. Activating BMP or inhibiting Wnt signaling blocks tumor initiation. TCGA patient data analysis reveals elevated HH signaling in gastric cancers, which correlates with suppressed BMP signaling.These findings uncover a gastrointestinal segment-specific oncogenic role for HH signaling in Col1a2+Acta2- stromal cells, mediated through the BMP-Wnt/β-catenin axis.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42556112 is a review article
This study investigated how having a deaf or hard-of-hearing (DHH) parent influences outcomes in DHH adults. A cross-sectional survey design and secondary analysis of data from 755 DHH adults aged 16-64, including 146 (19%) with at least 1 DHH parent, was used. Participants with and without a DHH parent were compared, and a comparative sub-analysis of participants under 35 years of age was also conducted. Analyses examined audiological, language, psychological, social, and family outcomes. Participants with a DHH parent were more likely to have a DHH sibling and a DHH child. Participants with a DHH parent had higher educational attainment, were less likely to have attended a deaf school in childhood, and were less likely to use sign language, a finding that may reflect the heterogeneity of the DHH parent group. However, these findings were not observed in the subgroup of participants younger than 35 years. The study points to the potential importance of family and intergenerational influences on DHH individuals.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Diffuse hepatic hemangiomatosis (DHH) in adults is a rare benign vascular tumor of the liver that histologically resembles a hepatic hemangioma but is characterized by an infiltrative growth pattern despite the absence of cytologic atypia typical of hepatic angiosarcoma. Although generally indolent, its clinical course is variable, and rapidly progressive or fatal cases have been reported. Due to its rarity and overlapping radiological and histopathological features with those of other vascular lesions, its diagnosis can be challenging. We present the case of a 51-year-old female with multiple hepatic lesions, initially suspected to be hepatic hemangiomas. Six months later, the lesions had progressed rapidly. A percutaneous liver biopsy revealed dilated sinusoids lined with endothelial cells without marked atypia, thus suggesting a benign vascular lesion. However, the rapid clinical course raised concerns regarding hepatic angiosarcoma, and the patient received weekly paclitaxel followed by durvalumab. No therapeutic response was observed, and the patient died of tumor rupture. Autopsy revealed diffuse replacement of the hepatic parenchyma with multiloculated cystic vascular spaces lined with pleomorphic endothelial cells. No histological heterogeneity or extrahepatic lesions are observed. These findings supported the diagnosis of DHH. This case report contributes to the current knowledge of the clinical and pathological features of this rare entity. In addition, pleomorphic endothelial cells observed during autopsy may be attributable to treatment-related artifacts.Copyright © 2026 Sugie, Nishimura, Urano, Iwakoshi, Murakami, Sato, Kitagawa and Harada.
Drug resistance in breast cancer (BC) is strongly linked to plasma membrane lipid remodeling, notably the loss of lipid asymmetry and elevated cholesterol (CHL) and sphingomyelin (SM) levels. We performed multi-scale molecular dynamics (MD) simulations on eight distinct lipid bilayer models-ranging from normal asymmetric (N1, N2) to cancer-mimetic symmetric states (C1-C5)-at all-atom and coarse-grained resolutions to investigate their impact on tamoxifen (TAM) permeation. Unbiased MD and umbrella sampling were used to compute potential of mean force (PMF) profiles. Our results indicate that membrane symmetrization and CHL/SM enrichment synergistically induce lipid condensation, increasing bilayer thickness (DHH), reducing area per lipid (APL) and lateral fluidity. Crucially, PMF profiles reveal the core resistance mechanism: while TAM permeates freely through base cancer models (C2), drug-resistant CHL/SM-rich membranes (C3, C4) act as severe energetic barriers. These rigid membranes strongly trap the drug within specific hydrophobic regions (energy minima of ∼-38 kJ mol-1), limiting penetration into the bilayer core. These findings provide a molecular-level understanding of how lipidomic alterations dictate TAM permeability, suggesting that targeting membrane lipid metabolism or designing lipid-modulating adjuvants are promising therapeutic strategies to overcome drug resistance.
A transplanted lung offers a permissive milieu for local adaptive immune cell responses. Here, we characterize a transcriptionally and anatomically distinct adult lung-resident mesenchymal stromal population (MSC) that supports a pro-survival niche for antibody-secreting cells in rejecting lung allografts through a novel IL-6 trans-signaling/CXCL12 axis. By using a mouse orthotopic lung transplant model and Blimp1 EYFP recipients, we identify spatial localization of antibody-secreting cells (ASCs) and terminally differentiated plasma cells (PCs) along the bronchovascular bundles (BVBs). A previously described Foxf1 + Gli1 + Itga8 - subset of collagen- expressing MSCs, which forms a 3-dimensional network along the bronchovascular bundles (BVB-MSCs), was found to be the major source of the PC survival factors CXCL12 and IL-6. Cxcl12 iCre/ERT2 Rosa26 tdTomato mice utilized as donors, validated the expansion of this population in a rejecting graft and their intimate association with ASCs. CXCL12 expression was increased in murine allografts and in Foxf1 + mesenchymal cells (MCs) isolated from human CLAD patients. IL-6 trans-signaling/STAT3 signaling axis was shown to upregulate CXCL12 secretion in human MCs, and Olamkicept-mediated neutralization of IL-6 trans-signaling in murine RAS attenuates CXCL12 expression, intra-graft ASC population, and fibrogenesis. Our findings represent the first delineation of specialized CXCL12-expressing mesenchymal stromal cells in adult lungs and the contribution of IL-6 trans-signaling driven CXCL12 expression to sustaining intra-graft ASC niches and allograft fibrogenesis.We characterize CXCL12-expressing mesenchymal cells and their role in a pro-survival niche for antibody-secreting cells in rejecting lung allografts.
Ellis-van Creveld (EVC) syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive skeletal dysplasia characterized by disproportionate short stature, skeletal abnormalities, craniofacial and dental anomalies, and a high prevalence of congenital cardiovascular disease. Pregnancy in patients with EVC syndrome presents unique anesthetic challenges due to altered airway anatomy, abnormal spinal anatomy affecting neuraxial techniques, restrictive pulmonary physiology, potential cardiac dysfunction, and resultant hemodynamic complications. Evidence guiding anesthetic management for this population remains limited. We present the case of a 23-year-old pregnant patient with a heterozygous EVC2 gene variant, who presented for repeat cesarean section. After comprehensive pre-anesthetic evaluation, neuraxial anesthesia with spinal blockade was selected to avoid airway manipulation and minimize hemodynamic stress. Adequate surgical anesthesia was achieved with hyperbaric bupivacaine, and the patient remained hemodynamically stable throughout the intraoperative and postoperative periods without complications. This case highlights the importance of individualized anesthetic planning in patients with rare skeletal dysplasia undergoing cesarean section. Careful assessment of airway, spine, and cardiac function allows safe use of neuraxial anesthesia and may reduce perioperative morbidity to ensure best operative outcomes.Copyright 2026 Authors.
This study explores a stem-cell-based approach for diabetes treatment by enhancing the viability and functionality of insulin-producing cells (IPCs) derived from stem cells of the apical papilla (SCAP). Although SCAP can differentiate into IPCs, limited cell survival remains a challenge. To address this, the proliferation enhancer WS6 was incorporated into Eudragit RS100 nanoparticles (NPs) using microfluidics. The WS6-loaded NPs were characterized for size, charge, PDI, morphology, stability, and drug loading. An MTT assay was performed as a preliminary screening method to evaluate the cytocompatibility of blank-NPs and to optimize treatment concentration. SCAP cells were treated with free WS6 or WS6-loaded NPs, and cellular uptake of NPs was evaluated using flow cytometry and fluorescence imaging. Additionally, the viability of treated cells was determined by propidium iodide (PI) and trypan blue. Prior to differentiation, definitive endoderm formation was assessed through SOX17 and FOXA2 expressions. After differentiation into IPCs, maturation markers such as insulin, C-peptide, PDX-1, NKX2.2, and NKX6.1 were examined, and apoptosis assays measured cell viability. Functional insulin secretion was tested using an in vitro glucose-stimulated insulin secretion (GSIS) assay. Results showed that WS6-loaded NPs significantly improved SCAP viability, increased healthy cell percentages, and enhanced IPC maturation. Treated IPCs demonstrated functional insulin secretion and improved glucose regulation. Overall, WS6-loaded NPs represent a promising approach to enhance IPC proliferation and generation for diabetes therapy.Copyright: © 2026 Abuarqoub et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Diabetes-associated cognitive impairment (DCI) is a devastating complication of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), driven by abnormal glucose metabolism and chronic systemic inflammation. Lycium barbarum polysaccharide (LBP), a macromolecular bioactive component, has shown neuroprotective potential despite limited blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability. We hypothesized that LBP ameliorates DCI through peripheral glycemic regulatory and anti-inflammatory mechanisms.KKAy mice (a spontaneous polygenic T2DM model) were used. Cognitive function was assessed by the Morris water maze (MWM). Fasting blood glucose was monitored throughout the study. Serum cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6, IL-10) were measured by ELISA. Hippocampal ultrastructure was examined by transmission electron microscopy (TEM). The TLR4/MyD88/NF-κB pathway was evaluated in peritoneal macrophages and RAW264.7 cells by Western blot and immunofluorescence.LBP (20-80 mg/kg, 3 months) improved spatial learning efficiency (P < 0.05) without fully normalizing memory retention, and attenuated hippocampal neuronal damage in KKAy mice. LBP reduced fasting blood glucose and improved systemic glycemic control, with the low dose (20 mg/kg) showing pronounced efficacy in glycemic control. LBP upregulated insulin signaling proteins (IRS, PDX1, ISLET1) and protected β-cell function. Systemically, LBP suppressed pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1β) partially and elevated IL-10 by inhibiting the TLR4/MyD88/NF-κB pathway.LBP ameliorates DCI primarily through dual peripheral actions, suggesting a peripheral-central axis mechanism: (1) stabilizing glycemic homeostasis via enhanced insulin/β-cell signaling; (2) suppressing systemic inflammation via inhibition of the TLR4/MyD88/NF-κB pathway. These findings provide a novel mechanistic framework for the clinical translation of LBP in managing DCI.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Lipotoxicity-induced β-cell failure in type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) involves intrinsic damage and inflammatory crosstalk with islet macrophages, but the initiating signals remain undefined. We identify NOX2 as the hub linking metabolic stress to macrophage-dependent β-cell injury. In high-fat diet-fed and Cybb-knockout mice, and in MIN6-RAW264.7 co-cultures, palmitate upregulates NOX2 in β-cells, activating TLR2/NF-κB/NLRP3 signaling and impairing insulin secretion. Damaged β-cells recruit macrophages via chemokines and drive M1 polarization. Activated macrophages release IL-1β and other cytokines, which suppress PDX1 and amplify β-cell apoptosis-a feedforward amplification loop. Genetic Cybb deletion or apocynin treatment disrupted this cycle, preserved insulin secretion, and improved glucose tolerance. We define the NOX2/TLR/NF-κB/NLRP3/IL-1β axis as the mechanistic link between lipotoxicity and paracrine inflammation in β-cell failure, and identify NOX2 as a therapeutic target for preserving islet function in T2DM.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is one of the most challenging cancers to treat due to the dismal survival rate, poor post-treatment outcome and profound resistance to a wide range of therapies. With mutant KRAS being a key driver, small molecule inhibitors targeting KRAS or pan-RAS (KRASi) have demonstrated exciting preclinical and early clinical anti-tumor efficacy, and the pan-RAS(ON) inhibitor daraxonrasib (RMC-6236) recently achieved Phase 3 clinically meaningful improvements in patient survival compared to chemotherapy. But resistance to RAS/KRAS inhibitor inevitably develops, which limits and compromises the treatment outcome. In this study, we investigated the combination of stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) and KRAS inhibition (MRTX1133 and daraxonrasib) in the treatment of preclinical PDAC models. We found that this combination strategy synergistically suppresses PDAC cell growth in vitro and enhances tumor control while minimizing local recurrence in orthotopically implanted KPC ( LSL-Kras G12D/+;Trp53 R172H/+;Pdx1-Cre ) murine PDAC tumors in vivo . As radiation therapy (RT) induces ferroptosis in multiple cancer types and mutant KRAS promotes various anti-ferroptotic mechanisms, we tested the role of ferroptosis in promoting tumor-control efficacy. Intriguingly, the addition of a ferroptosis inhibitor, liproxstatin-1, to the combination therapy significantly abrogated the in vivo synergism between SBRT and KRAS inhibition, suggesting that treatment-induced ferroptosis at least partially drives the synergistic efficacy of this combination strategy. Our study indicates that this SBRT-KRASi combination has the potential to overcome treatment resistance and improve outcomes in PDAC patients. These data directly support the design of a planned multi-center Phase 2 clinical trial with this combination strategy in locally advanced PDAC.
This study aims to identify programmed cell death (PCD)-associated genes linked to breast cancer prognosis for the construction of a prognostic model. Transcriptomic and clinical information was imported from the The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and GEO databases. Modulatory genes related to 18 types of PCD were evaluated. Furthermore, the TCGA and GEO datasets were employed as the training and validation datasets, respectively. A risk score prognostic model based on PCD-related genes was generated via univariate, LASSO, and multivariate Cox regression analyses. Further, differences in drug sensitivity, tumor mutation burden (TMB), immune-related pathways and cell infiltration, and immune checkpoints were compared between high-risk and low-risk cohorts to elucidate the clinical applicability of the model. Lastly, the model gene's expression was verified by RT-PCR. The data revealed 1480 PCD-related genes from the TCGA breast cancer gene expression matrix. Differential expression analysis identified 186 differentially expressed PCD genes. Furthermore, a prognostic model was generated according to the risk scores using multivariate Cox regression. The model comprised 8 PCD-related genes (BRSK2, CD24, IFNG, LAMB3, PDX1, PMAIP1, SLC7A11, and TRIML2). Moreover, breast cancer cases were divided into high-risk and low-risk cohorts per the median risk score. The results indicated that low-risk patients had better prognoses, and the model showed good predictive performance in the GEO validation cohort. The area under the curve values were 0.819, 0.731, and 0.674 for the nomogram's 3, 5, and 8 years overall survival, respectively. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that the prognostic model was markedly linked with the modulation of the immune microenvironment and tumor progression in breast cancer. Immune infiltration assessment revealed that low-risk patients had increased activity in immune-related pathways and infiltration of immune cells. In addition, the low-risk cohort had lower TMB and elevated immune checkpoint-related levels. Correlation analysis between immune checkpoints and risk scores indicated that low-risk patients were more responsive to immunotherapy. Drug sensitivity analysis showed variations in the IC50 values between the risk cohorts, suggesting potential variations in drug efficacy across different risk cohorts. Gene expression was verified by RT-PCR.A prognostic risk model for breast cancer based on 8 PCD-related genes was constructed and its predictive value was validated. The established model may provide novel biomarkers and effective therapeutic targets for breast cancer diagnosis and treatment.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42497973 is a review article
Elevated expression of nucleoporin (Nup) 88 is often observed in various types of cancer and correlates with tumor grade. However, the underlying molecular mechanism by which Nup88 induces cancer malignancy remains unclear. The present study showed that stable overexpression of Nup88 in HeLa cells enhanced cell migration by modulating the expression of kinesin family member (Kif) 7 and glioma‑associated oncogene homolog (Gli) 1. The expression level of Kif7, a negative regulator of the Hedgehog (Hh) pathway acting through the processing of Gli2 and Gli3, was markedly reduced at both the mRNA and protein levels in Nup88 overexpressing HeLa cells. The reduced expression of Kif7 was restored by treatment with a DNA methylation inhibitor, suggesting epigenetic regulation. Co‑overexpression of a truncated Kif7 (514‑1343 aa), which possesses a large part of the Gli2 binding domain, suppressed the Nup88‑induced migration, suggesting that the downregulation of Kif7 contributed to the enhanced cell migration. In parallel, Gli1 expression was elevated through activation of the MEK‑ERK pathway and its knockdown markedly suppressed Nup88‑induced cell migration. Although both Kif7 and Gli1 are components of the Hh pathway, neither the knockdown of Kif7 nor the overexpression of Gli1 affected the expression of the other. Instead, the truncated Kif7 (514‑1343 aa) physically interacted with Gli1, suggesting that Kif7 suppressed enhanced migration by inhibiting Gli1 function. These findings revealed that Nup88 promotes cell migration by modulating the expression of Kif7 and Gli1, providing new insight into the mechanism of Nup88‑driven malignancy.
Appendage degeneration is a notable morphological feature of some teleosts with specialized benthic lifestyles. The half-smooth tongue sole (Cynoglossus semilaevis) undergoes severe pectoral fin regression during metamorphosis. However, the molecular basis underlying rapid pectoral fin degeneration remains unclear. Here, we performed time-series transcriptome sequencing on pectoral fins at pre-metamorphosis, metamorphosis peak and post-metamorphosis to characterize the molecular changes associated with pectoral fin degeneration. Transcriptional dynamics and functional enrichment showed that no significant enrichment of classical apoptosis-related transcriptional pathways was detected during pectoral fin degeneration. Instead, sustained downregulation of twist1b, identified as a transcriptomic candidate, together with significant upregulation of ssh1, coupled with enrichment of lysosome and ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) pathways, suggested enhanced tissue remodeling during pectoral fin degeneration. Temporal expression clustering revealed heterochronic misalignment in the developmental gene expression: upstream initiator tbx5 was upregulated at early metamorphosis, while downstream maintenance signal fgf10 decreased synchronously. Distal patterning gene hoxd12a exhibited premature expression and rapid decay, losing sustained late-phase expression. Moreover, transient elevation of gli3 during metamorphosis may contribute to restricted distal fin growth. We conclude that pectoral fin degeneration in C. semilaevis is associated with heterochronic disruption of developmental signaling and extensive tissue remodeling. This study provides transcriptomic insights into pectoral fin degeneration in tongue soles and establishes a basis for future functional studies of appendage reduction in teleosts.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42488637 is a review article
Corticosteroids are among the most highly prescribed drugs. Chronic treatment with corticosteroids causes osteopenia, as well as growth failure in children. Our goal was to identify serum biomarkers of prednisone-related perturbations of bone and/or cartilage metabolism associated with growth failure in children. We utilized longitudinal serum samples from a double-blind, placebo- and prednisone-controlled trial of vamorolone in 4 to < 7 years children with Duchenne muscular dystrophy assayed by proteomic methods. Vamorolone is a recently approved bone-sparing corticosteroid that has been shown to have similar efficacy as prednisone but does not cause growth failure. The study included a 24-week Period 1 (placebo, prednisone [0.75 mg/kg/day], vamorolone [6 mg/kg/day]), and a 24-week Period 2 where placebo and vamorolone groups crossed over to vamorolone. Clinical laboratory measures of ALP, osteocalcin, P1NP, and CTX1 showed significant reductions with prednisone, but were unchanged by vamorolone treatment or placebo. Proteomics studies of serum proteins reduced by prednisone, but not vamorolone or placebo, identified 10 proteins where mutations in the corresponding genes are known to cause genetic disorders of cartilage and/or bone (collagens [COL2A1, Chondrocalcin, COL6A1, COL9A1, COL10A1, COL11A2], aggrecan core protein [ACAN], biglycan [BGN], osteopetrosis-associated transmembrane protein 1 [OSTM1], and noggin [NOG]). On transitioning from prednisone to vamorolone, all 10 biomarkers returned to baseline levels. Non-human (animal) studies have shown that traditional corticosteroids cause apoptosis of terminal hypertrophic chondrocytes associated with growth failure. Our clinical trial studies suggest that the 10 novel, corticosteroid-related biomarkers likely reflect the induction of apoptosis in terminal hypertrophic chondrocytes and osteoblasts by traditional corticosteroids. Vamorolone may spare chondrocytes and osteoblasts from this apoptosis, consistent with maintenance of normal growth in vamorolone-treated children.Trial registration The clinical trial registration (clinicaltrials.gov) is NCT03439670 ( https://www.clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT03439670 ).© 2026. The Author(s).
Non-syndromic cleft palate only (NSCPO) is a distinct clinical and etiological entity within the spectrum of orofacial clefts. While genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified numerous risk loci for nonsyndromic cleft lip with or without cleft palate (NSCL/P), the genetic architecture of NSCPO remains less understood, particularly in the Japanese population. This study aimed to investigate the association of three candidate genes, VAX1, MAFB, and NOG, with NSCPO risk. A case-control study was carried out involving 65 Japanese NSCPO patients and 119 ethnically matched healthy controls. Three single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), rs7078160 (VAX1), rs13041247 (MAFB), and rs227731 (NOG), were selected based on previous GWAS and minor allele frequency. Statistical associations were evaluated using chi-squared or Fisher's exact tests. The VAX1 rs7078160 polymorphism showed a significant association with NSCPO under a recessive model (OR = 2.10, 95% CI = 1.05-4.22, p = 0.034), with the AA genotype showing a higher risk. No significant associations were found for MAFB rs13041247 or NOG rs227731 (p > 0.05). Our findings identify VAX1 rs7078160 as a potential risk factor for NSCPO in the Japanese population. These results show the need for larger studies to further explain the molecular pathways of NSCPO.© 2026 Japanese Teratology Society.
Indole-3-propionic acid (IPA) is documented to improve the effectiveness of tumor immunotherapy via regulating anti-tumor immunity. However, the impacts of IPA in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients undergoing sintilimab combined with bevacizumab (SCB) treatment remain unknown. This study investigated the effects and underlying mechanisms of IPA in SCB-treated HCC. Serum, tumor tissue, fecal and lymph node tissue samples were collected from HCC patients with or without a response to SCB therapy. Humanized orthotopic and subcutaneous HCC NOG mouse models were established. IPA-treated mouse dendritic cells (DCs) were co-cultured with mouse CD8+ T-cells, which were subsequently co-cultured with Hepa1-6 cells. IPA levels were elevated in the serum, tumor tissues, and feces of responders, and serum IPA levels were positively correlated with the proportion of IFN-γ+CD8+ T cells in tumor tissues as well asac-H3K27 and IL-12A levels in lymph node DCs. IPA amplified the suppressive impact of SCB on tumor growth in HCC mice. Moreover, IPA increased ac-H3K27 and IL-12A levels in DCs and upregulated effector CD8+ T-cell immunity in HCC mice. Administration of a CD8-neutralizing antibody and injection of shIL-12A-transfected DCs weakened IPA-mediated inhibition of HCC in vivo. Furthermore, the ac-H3K27 inhibitor A-485 suppressed IL-12A expression and effector CD8+ T-cell immunity induced by IPA, thereby promoting the proliferation, invasion, and migration of Hepa1-6 cells in vitro. These findings demonstrate that IPA enhances the effect of SCB-treated HCC by upregulating H3K27 acetylation to promote IL-12A expression in DCs, thereby potentiating CD8+ T-cell immunity, which provides a basis for its potential use as a clinical adjuvant therapy.© 2026 The Author(s). Cancer Science published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.
Gastric cancer (GC) is a prevalent malignancy worldwide with high morbidity and mortality. Its insidious onset and lack of sensitive early biomarkers impede routine screening, so most patients present advanced or metastatic disease at first diagnosis, leading to poor prognosis and scarce curative options. Surgery, chemotherapy and targeted therapy serve as standard GC treatments, however their efficacy is restricted by metastasis, adverse reactions and drug resistance, which drives the rapid development of immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI)-based immunotherapy. Although monoclonal antibodies targeting programmed cell death protein 1/programmed cell death 1 ligand 1 (PD-1/PD-L1) resulted in significant survival benefits for GC patients, some patients exhibited an ineffective response. Our previous study has shown that Weitiao No. 3 (WD-3) enhanced the efficacy of anti-PD-1 immunotherapy by regulating intestinal flora in gastric cancer (GC) mice, in this study, huPBMC-NOG-dKO mice and MGC803 cells were used for in vivo and in vitro functional validation to explore the regulatory mechanism of WD-3 in GC immunotherapy. 16 S rRNA sequencing analysis of mouse fecal samples demonstrated that WD-3 significantly enriched the intestinal abundance of Lachnospiraceae and Ruminococcaceae in GC model mice. Targeted serum metabolomics further verified that WD-3 markedly elevated serum isobutyric acid level in GC mice. Combined with HE staining and tumor growth monitoring, both the intestinal flora mixture consisting of Lachnospiraceae and Ruminococcaceae and isobutyric acid prominently enhanced the anti-tumor efficacy of PD-L1 inhibitors in GC mice. Mechanistically, RNA sequencing and qRT-PCR assays identified ACOX2 as the most significantly up-regulated gene in isobutyric acid-treated MGC803 cells. Functional experiments using CCK-8 assay and flow cytometry revealed that isobutyric acid inhibited the viability and induced apoptosis of MGC803 cells, and such phenotypic changes were effectively rescued by ACOX2 knockdown. Furthermore, results from the CytoTox 96 cytotoxicity assay and ELISA revealed that combined treatment with isobutyric acid and PD-L1 inhibitor elevated the levels of LDH, IL-2, TNF-α, IFN-γ, Perforin 1 and GzmB, while suppressing IL-8, PD-1 and TIM-3 expression in CD8⁺ T cells co-cultured with MGC803 cells. Notably, all these regulatory effects were abrogated when MGC803 cells were transfected with si-ACOX2. These results suggested that WD-3 modulated intestinal flora to elevate isobutyric acid level, thereby enhancing the inhibitory effect of PD-L1 inhibitor on tumor growth and boosting the anti-tumor activity of CD8⁺ T cells by up-regulating ACOX2 expression in GC. These findings may provide novel targets for improving anti-PD-L1 therapy against GC.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s13205-026-04974-x.© King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Gastric cancer (GC) ranks as the fifth most prevalent malignancy globally. Emerging evidence implicates gut microbiome as a key modulator of anti-tumor immunity and immunotherapy response. Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) presents a promising yet underexplored avenue for microbiome modulation.16S rDNA sequencing of fecal samples was used to detect changes of gut microbiota in advanced GC patients. GC models were established in huPBMC-NOG-dKO mice after fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) to investigate the potential synergy between Number 3 Prescription (WD-3) and anti-PD-L1 monoclonal antibody (mAb) in treatment of non-responders.In this study, WD-3 combined with αPD-L1 showed additive benefit after the FMT of non-responders in the humanized mouse model model. WD-3 combination therapy correlated with reduced proportion of Treg cell infiltration in tumors. WD-3 combination was also associated with increased species richness and improved gut microbiota community structure compared to αPD-L1 alone, with increased relative abundances of Enterobacteriaceae and Lachnospiraceae.Our data provide correlative evidence that WD-3 supplementation combined with αPD-L1 treatment may attenuate GC progress in the FMT mouse model, indicating association with the modulation of gut microbiota. These findings aim to provide treatment strategies for the clinical treatment of advanced GC.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights reserved.
Tumor masses often exhibit heterogeneity, including escape variant clones that lack antigen-presenting machinery and/or tumor antigens, which poses a major challenge to immunotherapy. Ferroptosis, a form of regulated cell death driven by iron-dependent lipid peroxidation, has been shown to effectively induce cell death in various tumor cells. Recent studies have reported that IFN-γ suppresses the expression of System Xc-, thereby enhancing the induction of ferroptosis. Based on this, we hypothesized that combining immunotherapy with ferroptosis inducers could enhance antitumor effects against both antigen-positive and antigen-negative tumor cells. We found that combining RSL3, a ferroptosis inducer, with MART-1-specific TCR-T cells eradicates a heterogeneous tumor model consisting of human melanoma cells and their β2 microglobulin knockout counterparts. In NOG mice, this combination therapy demonstrates a significant antitumor effect against tumors with heterogeneity. These findings suggest that integrating ferroptosis inducers with immunotherapy could overcome the limitations imposed by escape variant tumor clones, offering a promising strategy for cancer treatment.
Understanding how genetic variants influence disease risk through molecular mechanisms remains a central challenge in complex disease genetics. Nonsyndromic orofacial clefts (OFCs) exemplify this challenge, with most risk loci residing in non-coding regions. We hypothesized that common genetic variants influence OFC risk by modulating DNA methylation at regulatory elements through methylation quantitative trait loci (meQTLs). We analyzed 10 OFC-associated SNPs against genome-wide DNA methylation profiles in 409 cases and 456 controls, identifying 23 potential meQTLs. Findings were validated using 358 cleft-discordant sibling pairs with MethyLight assays. We performed formal mediation analysis, genotype-tissue interaction and cross-referenced with the mQTL Database to assess developmental timing. Nine meQTLs were validated, including rs987525 (8q24)-cg16561172 (MYC) (P = 9.6 × 10⁻⁶), which mapped to a mesendoderm-active enhancer upstream of MYC. Genotype × tissue interaction confirmed tissue-specificity (P = 1.00 × 10- 3), with stronger effects in oral-derived tissue (saliva). Additional validated SNP-CpG associations involved MAFB-PLCG1, NOG-PPM1E, FOXE1-FRZB, and SPRY2-LGR4. While effect sizes correlated between tissues (r = 0.81), formal mediation analysis indicated individual CpG sites do not fully mediate SNP-phenotype relationships, suggesting coordinated epigenetic mechanisms. Most associations showed peak effects during childhood, while 8q24 showed unique adult-specific patterns. We identified genetic variants influencing methylation at craniofacial regulatory elements, and provided a mechanistic link for a major risk locus, 8q24, with tissue-specific effects in saliva. While individual CpG sites did not fully mediate the genetic risk, our findings identified specific regulatory regions where coordinated epigenetic changes may contribute to OFC susceptibility.© 2026. The Author(s).
The dermal papilla (DP) is essential to hair follicle development and regeneration. Isolation of human DPs still largely depends on manual microdissection and human DP cells (DPCs) lose their intrinsic properties in vitro. Establishing a culture condition that maintains the biological properties of DPCs allows for identification of cell surface markers that enable cell sorting of living human DPCs. A new DPC culture condition was developed using the combination of a WNT activator, CHIR99021, and recombinant FGF9 (CH + F9). Global gene expression profiling and bioinformatic analyses of DPCs grown under this condition were conducted to identify DPC surface markers enabling live DPC isolation. Compared to a conventional culture condition, CH + F9 increased the expression of the representative DPC biomarkers WNT5A, LEF1 and BMP4 by 3.4-, 3.8- and 60.5-fold (p < 0.01) and better maintained their expression levels after long-term serial passaging. Aggregated CH + F9-treated DPCs unevenly upregulated DP biomarkers further, suggesting that highly potent DPCs can be enriched using a marker for such cells. Bioinformatics analysis of CH + F9-treated and control DPCs identified cell marker candidates, including roundabout guidance receptor 2 (ROBO2). Importantly, ROBO2+ DPCs expressing the representative DP biomarkers WNT5A, VCAN, NOG were successfully sorted from mixed cell suspensions of keratinocytes, fibroblasts and DPCs mimicking enzymatically dissociated human skin. These findings suggest that the new culture condition and cell surface marker for human DPCs established in this study provide useful tools for drug discovery and regenerative medicine to address hair loss diseases.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Multiple myeloma (MM) is an incurable malignancy of bone marrow plasma cells. Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) are the predominant immune cells in the bone marrow microenvironment of MM and play important roles in MM. The effect of RBMS1 on MM has not yet been reported. This study aimed to investigate the function of RBMS1 in MM. Through the analysis of GSE datasets, we identified RBMS1 as a potential pathogenic factor in MM. We further investigated the effects of RBMS1 on the proliferation of MM cells (RPMI8226, MM1S, and KMS11) and its regulation of TAM polarization. An animal model was established by intravenous injection of MM cells into 6-week-old male NOG mice. Bioinformatics analyses, including RRA, WGCNA, and GO enrichment, screened for potential pathogenic genes in MM. Kaplan - Meier survival identified RBMS1 as a prognostic marker associated with poor outcomes in MM. Functionally, RBMS1 enhanced MM cell proliferation, colony formation, and cell cycle. Moreover, RBMS1 promoted M2 polarization of macrophages, as evidenced by elevated levels of M2 macrophage markers, as well as increased CCL2 secretion. Consistently, in a male NOD/Shi-scid IL-2 Rγnull mouse xenograft model, RBMS1 accelerated tumor growth and enhanced M2 macrophage polarization. Mechanistically, RBMS1 bound to the 3'UTR of PDPK1 mRNA, enhancing its stability and activating the pro-tumorigenic β-catenin signaling pathway, thereby promoting tumor growth. Collectively, this study is the first to report the functional role of RBMS1 in MM and highlights the importance of the RBMS1/PDPK1/β-catenin signaling axis in MM, providing new insights for basic research on MM.
Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA), a malignancy arising from biliary epithelial cells, features a tumor microenvironment (TME) characterized by metabolic dysregulation and immunosuppression. Although diverse metabolic aberrations have been observed, the dominant metabolic driver remains unclear. Therefore, the study aims to elucidate the molecular connections between metabolic reprogramming and immune evasion, and to provide the basis for developing TME-targeted therapies.First, untargeted metabolomics was performed to identify key metabolite classes involved in CCA progression. We subsequently used next-generation sequencing combined with database analysis to identify the key genes involved in tumor fatty acid metabolism. Metabolomics, proteomics and metabolic phenotyping experiments were subsequently performed to investigate this metabolic process. Tumor malignancy was evaluated using a range of in vitro and in vivo models. Single-cell RNA sequencing, Olink proteomics, flow cytometry and multiplex immunohistochemistry were performed to analyze the changes in the TME. Finally, we used humanized NOG mice to evaluate the efficacy of the combination therapy.Integrated multi-omics analysis revealed that long-chain unsaturated fatty acids (LCUFAs) were enriched in CCA tissues and closely associated with tumor progression. Ubiquitin-specific peptidase 1 (USP1) was upregulated in CCA tissues, driving dynamic lipid metabolic reprogramming and was associated with poor prognosis. Mechanistically, USP1 orchestrated LCUFAs accumulation through coordinating the enhancement of lipophagy and lipogenesis, establishing a systems-level metabolic regulatory network. Tumor-secreted LCUFAs were preferentially internalized by tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) through FABP5, thereby suppressing cytotoxic T cells activity. Additionally, TAMs upregulated USP1 in CCA cells, forming a positive feedback loop that perpetuates the metabolic-immune crosstalk.In summary, based on multi-omics analysis, this study establishes a systemic mechanism that links tumor lipid metabolism, immune suppression, and therapeutic response in CCA. Targeting the USP1-mediated metabolic-immune axis not only significantly suppresses tumor progression but also enhances the efficacy of immunotherapy. These findings construct a conceptual framework that integrates metabolic reprogramming, immune evasion, and treatment sensitivity, thereby establishing USP1 as a precision therapeutic target with broad biological and clinical importance for patients with CCA.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Bone remodeling depends on the coordinated balance between osteoclast-mediated resorption and osteoblast-mediated formation. Although Indian hedgehog (Ihh) is known to regulate skeletal development and bone homeostasis, its direct involvement in osteoclastogenesis remains unclear.We generated a novel mouse model, Ctsk-CreERT2; Ihhfl/fl, to investigate the role of Ihh in osteoclast lineage cells. Skeletal phenotypes were assessed by radiography, micro-CT, histology, dynamic histomorphometry, and three-point bending tests. Bone marrow macrophages were isolated to assess osteoclast precursor viability, RANKL-induced osteoclast differentiation, F-actin ring formation, and bone resorptive activity using CCK-8 assays, TRAP staining, phalloidin staining, and resorption pit assays. Osteoclastogenic gene expression and signaling pathway activation were examined by RT-qPCR and Western blotting.IhhCKO mice exhibited reduced body weight and an osteosclerotic phenotype, characterized by increased metaphyseal trabecular bone mass, improved femoral peak load and stiffness, and reduced cortical bone parameters. Histological analyses revealed fewer TRAP-positive osteoclasts on trabecular surfaces, increased osteoblast-related parameters, and decreased cortical bone formation indices. In vitro, Ihh deficiency reduced osteoclast precursor viability, impaired RANKL-induced osteoclast formation, decreased F-actin ring number/size and nuclei per osteoclast, and markedly reduced resorption pit formation. Mechanistically, Ihh loss suppressed osteoclast marker and fusion-related genes and diminished RANKL-induced JNK phosphorylation, c-Fos, NFATc1, and CTSK expression.Osteoclast-lineage-derived Ihh is required for efficient RANKL-induced osteoclastogenesis and bone resorption, at least in part by sustaining the JNK/c-Fos/NFATc1 axis. These findings identify Ihh as an osteoclast-intrinsic regulator of postnatal bone remodeling.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42510461 is a review article
Infantile hepatic hemangioma (IHH) can cause severe complications such as high-output cardiac failure and growth faltering, requiring prompt diagnosis and intervention. In the absence of standardized treatment guidelines, propranolol has emerged as an effective and well-tolerated therapy. We report a female infant with multifocal IHH who presented with high-output cardiac failure, hepatomegaly, and growth faltering. She experienced rapid and sustained clinical as well as radiologic improvement with propranolol therapy. This case reinforces propranolol's role as a safe, effective first-line therapy for symptomatic IHH and underscores the importance of early multidisciplinary care.© 2026 The Author(s). JPGN Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The European Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition and the North American Society for Pediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition.
Lonicera japonica polysaccharides have been reported to possess anti-tumor potential, but their effects and mechanisms in thyroid cancer remain insufficiently defined. In this study, an acidic pectic polysaccharide, WLJP-025p (average molecular weight 23 kDa; purity 93.7%), was screened for selective anti-proliferative activity against IHH-4 papillary thyroid cancer cells. Based on the carbohydrate-recognition properties of galectin proteins and bioinformatics analysis of thyroid cancer datasets, Gal-3 was selected as a candidate WLJP-025p-interacting protein. Fluorescence spectroscopy and biolayer interferometry further supported a biochemical interaction between WLJP-025p and Gal-3. Functionally, WLJP-025p suppressed IHH-4 cells proliferation and migration, reduced Gal-3/FAK/SRC-associated signaling, and impaired glycolysis and mitochondrial respiration-related functional readouts as indicated by ECAR and OCR assays. In a nude mouse xenograft model, intratumoral WLJP-025p administration reduced tumor growth and downregulated Gal-3/FAK/SRC-associated protein signals in tumor tissue. These findings suggest that WLJP-025p suppresses IHH-4 thyroid cancer cell proliferation at least partly through a Gal-3-associated FAK/SRC signaling pathway and provide proof-of-concept evidence for further development of L. japonica polysaccharides as anti-tumor macromolecules.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Effective intra-hospital handovers (IHHs) are fundamental to patient safety and high-quality care in critical care settings. Research identifies a lack of standardized knowledge and handover protocols. This quality improvement study aimed to enhance nurses' performance in intra-hospital handover in ICUs by implementing an educational package.This quality improvement study used a pre-post, single-group design. Of 167 ICU nurses, 155 nurses met the inclusion criteria and were enrolled. Each nurse's performance in intra-hospital handover was assessed twice: once before and once after the intervention, with each nurse serving as their own control. The intervention consisted of a 90-minute lecture, a printed educational booklet, and an educational poster. A validated 38-item checklist was used to evaluate nurses' performance across pre-transfer, during-transfer, and post-transfer phases. Data were analyzed using SPSS version 16, with a significance level set at p < 0.05.Higher post-intervention frequencies were observed across all three handover phases (p < 0.001). The total median IHH score increased from 103 (IQR = 15) before the intervention to 138 (IQR = 9) afterward. For safety-related practices, checking vital signs before transfer was documented in 51.0% of pre-intervention observations compared to 89.0% post-intervention. Coordinating with the destination department rose from 54.2% to 92.3%. Providing explanations to patients or families was observed in 17.4% of pre-intervention cases versus 89.7% post-intervention. During transfer, the responsible nurse remained with the patient in 30.3% of pre-intervention observations compared to 96.1% post-intervention. In addition, clinical handover by the accompanying nurse increased from 51.6% to 93.5%.The educational intervention was associated with improvement in adherence scores across multiple domains, including patient safety, patient/family communication, documentation, coordination, and equipment/route preparation. These findings suggest that a low-cost, multimodal educational intervention may contribute to improving handover quality in critical care settings. Nevertheless, infection control practices remained an area requiring ongoing reinforcement, highlighting the need for continued quality improvement efforts.Not applicable.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42469912 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42464793 is a review article
Isolated hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (IHH) is a rare endocrine disorder caused by genes such as ANOSI (OMIM*300836), FGFR1 (OMIM*136350), PROK2 (OMIM*607002) and PROKR2 (OMIM*607123) (etc.), leading to downstream dysfunction of pituitary gonadotropin secretion and subsequent impairment of gonadal function. Clinical manifestations include incomplete or partial puberty and infertility.In this study, whole-genome sequencing of a female patient with HH identified a novel 5' splice site variant c.285 + 772 T>G in the deep intron of PROK2 (NM_001126128.2). In vitro minigene validation revealed abnormal splicing of this variant, with 69 base pairs retained in intron 3, ultimately leading to changes in protein length, which may lead to changes in protein structure. According to the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics (ACMG) pathogenicity classification, this variant is rated as likely pathogenic variant (LP).PROK2 variants can lead to HH and we report a case with a novel splice site variant that has been confirmed to lead to the retention of 69 base pairs in intron 3 during RNA splicing.© 2026 The Author(s). Molecular Genetics & Genomic Medicine published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Oral propranolol, with or without corticosteroids, has been shown to benefit diffuse infantile hepatic haemangioma (IHH); randomized trial evidence is lacking. We aimed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of propranolol monotherapy versus propranolol plus prednisone for the treatment of problematic IHHs to determine whether oral prednisone provided an added benefit to propranolol.We conducted an open-label, multicenter, randomized controlled trial across six referral centers in China from July 2019 to November 2023 (clinicaltrials.gov registration: NCT03331744). Infants with problematic diffuse IHH were assigned (1:1) to oral propranolol alone or propranolol plus a short course of prednisone. The primary endpoint was the proportion of patients who achieved a lesion response at week 4 on serial ultrasound. Analyses followed the intention-to-treat principle.Forty-five patients were included in this study (propranolol, n = 22; propranolol plus prednisone, n = 23). Four weeks following treatment, lesion response rates were higher with propranolol plus prednisone than with propranolol alone [21/23 (91.3%) vs. 13/22 (59.1%); difference: 32.2%; 95% confidence interval (CI) = 6.9%-53.5%; P = 0.007]. Compared with monotherapy, combination therapy yielded higher lesion response rates during weeks 1-3, more rapid stabilization of thyroid-stimulating hormone levels during weeks 2-4, and a greater overall volumetric response at month 6 (91.3% vs. 63.6%; difference: 27.7%; 95% CI = 3.1%-49.3%; P = 0.026). Total adverse events were similar between the groups, and no grade 3-4 adverse events were observed.Addition of prednisone to propranolol in patients with diffuse IHH markedly improved lesion response rates. Propranolol plus prednisone represents a valid treatment for diffuse IHH.© 2026. The Author(s).
The urothelium is a stratified epithelium that lines the inner surfaces of organs in the urinary drainage system. It has a layered composition of basal, intermediate, and large superficial cells. The process, by which this cytoarchitecture develops from uncommitted precursor cells, is not well understood. In this study, we analyzed the cellular and molecular functions of the transcription factor ΔNP63 in urothelial development in the murine ureter. ΔNP63 expression begins in epithelial progenitors of this organ at embryonic day (E)14.5 and is confined to basal and intermediate cells from late fetal stages onward. In mice with a conditional loss of ΔNp63 in the epithelial progenitors, the ureteric urothelium presented as a folded monolayer composed predominantly of partially differentiated superficial cells around birth. At E15.5, the proliferation and division planes of epithelial cells remained unaffected. However, genes essential for cell adhesion and division in other epithelial stratification programs were downregulated, as were genes involved in basal and intermediate cell differentiation. In contrast, Ihh expression in the epithelium increased concomitantly with the premature formation of the lamina propria. Our results suggest that a conserved ΔNP63 gene regulatory module is responsible for epithelial stratification and the differentiation of basal and intermediate cells, as well as the timely differentiation of the lamina propria in fetal ureter development. The urothelial cytoarchitecture was progressively reconstituted in ΔNp63-deficient ureters after birth. This suggests that a few ΔNP63+ epithelial progenitors, which have escaped recombination, can undergo rapid proliferative expansion and differentiation into intermediate and basal cells.NEW & NOTEWORTHY This study aimed to characterize the cellular and molecular function of the transcription factor ΔNP63 in the development of the urothelium in the murine ureter. Through comprehensive transcriptomic analyses of a conditional mouse mutant, we discovered that ΔNP63 not only regulates genes essential for cell division and adhesion in the epithelial stratification program but is also required for the expression of genes essential for the differentiation of basal and intermediate cells.
Copper is essential for cellular function but can become toxic in excess. Although its redox and enzymatic roles are well established, how copper availability affects cytoskeletal organization and cell mechanics remains unclear. Here, we show that elevated copper availability increases membrane tether force and F-actin anisotropy in HK-2 proximal tubule cells, consistent with actin cytoskeletal remodeling. Cotreatment with the membrane-permeable reactive oxygen species (ROS) scavenger Tiron reversed copper-induced ROS accumulation and mechanical changes without affecting cell viability, supporting a ROS-dependent mechanism. Quantitative proteomics and post-translational modification profiling (ProteomeXchange: PXD072220) identified coordinated changes in actin-regulatory proteins, including Rab35, methionine sulfoxide reductase B2, casein kinase 2 subunits, and Septin2, together with reduced actin methionine oxidation and copper-sensitive phosphorylation shifts. These findings identify copper-driven redox signaling as a modulator of renal epithelial cell mechanics associated with remodeling of actin-regulatory pathways.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Copper-driven redox signaling remodels the actin cytoskeleton and reprograms the mechanical properties of renal proximal tubule cells. Using optical tweezers, fluorescence imaging, quantitative proteomics, and PTM profiling, we link ROS-dependent mechanical changes to coordinated remodeling of the Rab35/MICAL1/MsrB2 and CK2/Septin2 regulatory axes, establishing copper availability as a modulator of renal epithelial cell mechanics with potential relevance to copper dyshomeostasis in kidney injury.
In cancer cells, septins assemble into enigmatic higher-order structures of 300-700 nanometers, including long needle-like filaments, thick perinuclear rings, and cytoplasmic bundles or aggregates. The absence of genetic or pharmacological tools to recapitulate these architectures in-vitro has impeded mechanistic studies of their formation, function, and therapeutic targeting. Here, first, determining the overexpression of septin-2 in epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) and its association with increased mortalities and dependencies, we select SKOV-3 ovarian cancer cells as a tractable model in which septin supramolecular assemblies can be recreated in-vitro and interrogated. This system shows that the forchlorfenuron (FCF) analog UR214-9 remodels septin architecture, converting co-expressed human septin octamers (SEPT2-SEPT6-SEPT7-SEPT9-SEPT9-SEPT7-SEPT6-SEPT2) into large cytoplasmic aggregates. In parallel, transiently expressed SEPT2 is reorganized into septin-rich noodle-like filaments, perinuclear rings, and web-like networks encircling the nucleus upon UR214-9 treatment. Mechanistically, UR214-9 disrupts the incorporation of SEPT2, SEPT7, and SEPT9 into canonical septin hetero-octamers, resulting in assembly-defective or imperfect oligomers that preferentially reorganize into these aberrant higher-order structures. This aggregation likely prevents septin-2 migration during interphase-to-cleavage furrow transition in NRK-49F-SEPT2-EGFP homozygous cells and impacts SKOV-3 cytokinesis, cell proliferation, adhesion and invasion and migration while sparing ceramide transport to the Golgi, preserving ER and cis-Golgi structure. These effects manifested in reduced growth of ovarian, endometrial and breast cancer xenografts without attracting significant off-target engagements per the global transcriptomic analysis of JIMT1 breast cancer and PANC-1 pancreatic cells. UR214-9 treated animals showed observable safety in animals. Thus, a tool to recreate aberrant septin structures and identification of septins as a druggable cytoskeletal target for ovarian, endometrial, breast and pancreatic cancer by perturbing their hetero-octamerization assembly is presented.We provide a method to reconstruct the higher-order septin architecture observed in cancer cells, to study their assembly and functions. Intriguingly, cancer cells tolerate hetero-oligomeric septins lacking specific subunits, suggesting that compositionally deficient oligomers are not efficiently targeted for degradation, unlike unincorporated septin monomers in normal cells. This tolerance may enable accumulation of structurally aberrant septin complexes acquiring long-needles, rings or thick-aggregates in disease cells. We further show that septin oligomerization can be pharmacologically perturbed. By integrating structural, cellular, and energetic readouts using in-silico techniques, we establish a quantitative framework for septin-targeted modulation, generating UR214-9 as a new chemotype that disrupts septin oligomeric assembly via preventing incorporation of SEPT2/7/9, into canonical hetero-octamers, causes defects in cytokinesis, altered cell migration, viability, and remodels septin-actin architectures, ultimately impairing tumor cell growth. Thus, pharmacological targeting of septin assembly represents a tractable strategy to perturb septin-dependent cellular processes in cancer and neurodegenerative diseases with reported septin dysregulation.
Objective: Systemic lupus erythematosus is a complex autoimmune disease characterized by immune dysregulation and multisystem involvement. The primary cilium, a crucial cellular sensory organelle involved in immune signaling, has received limited attention in SLE. This study aims to characterize the expression patterns and potential regulatory features of primary cilium-related molecules in SLE and explore candidate compounds through integrated proteomic and phosphoproteomic analysis. Methods: Proteomic and phosphoproteomic data were obtained from peripheral blood mononuclear cells of 130 SLE patients and 90 healthy controls. Gene ontology enrichment and hierarchical clustering analysis were used to characterize functional features and expression patterns of primary cilium-related molecules. PPI network analysis and phosphosite annotation were used to identify hub proteins and key phosphorylation sites (phosphosites). Stage-associated regulatory features were explored using Mfuzz clustering and kinase-substrate network analysis. Candidate compounds were predicted via Connectivity Map (cMAP). Results: A total of 67 differentially expressed and 36 differentially phosphorylated primary cilium-related proteins were identified. The PPI network identified hub proteins (MAPRE1, VCP, TUBB, TUBB4B and RAB7A) and key phosphosites (TUBB S168/S172, TUBA4A S48 and SEPTIN2 S218). Kinase analysis highlighted that IKKβ, GSK3β and CDK5 were associated with stable-stage patterns, whereas MAP2K2, CDKL1 and CCRK were associated with active-stage patterns. Increased predicted IKKβ activity, elevated CYLD S422 phosphorylation and upregulated NF-κB1/2 expression in SLE suggested the potential involvement of a candidate IKKβ-CYLD/NF-κB regulatory module. Stage-associated cMAP analysis identified 20 candidate compounds with potential reversal signatures. Conclusion: This study suggests a primary cilium-related regulatory network in SLE and identifies hub proteins, key phosphosites and kinases associated with stage-related molecular patterns. These findings provide new insights into primary cilium-related molecular alterations in SLE and propose preliminary candidate compounds that require further validation.
The regular structure of CNS myelin requires specialized structural proteins, including septin filaments composed of subunits SEPTIN2, SEPTIN4, SEPTIN7, and SEPTIN8. These filaments scaffold the innermost non-compacted myelin layer; their disruption causes pathological myelin outfoldings. However, the mechanisms that control myelin septin assembly are incompletely understood. We found that loss of CDC42 from oligodendrocytes of adult mice causes myelin pathology including outfoldings, coinciding with depletion of myelin septins and CDC42-effector proteins (CDC42EP1 and CDC42EP2). We thus tested the functional relevance of the latter by deleting both the Cdc42ep1 and Cdc42ep2-genes in oligodendrocytes. We observed myelin outfoldings as a very specific pathology, markedly reduced abundance of myelin septins, and disorganized septin filaments in myelin. Immunohistochemical analysis did not uncover astrocyte or microglial activation, implying that myelin outfoldings per se do not induce secondary neuropathology. Together, our data reveal a critical function for CDC42 and CDC42EP1/CDC42EP2 in regulating myelin septin filaments, which facilitate structural integrity of myelin sheaths.© 2026 The Author(s). GLIA published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Forchlorfenuron (FCF), a Septin2 chemical inhibitor and widely used plant growth regulator in global agriculture, poses potential risks to human health through dietary and environmental exposure. However, the myocardial toxicity and underlying mechanisms of FCF remain unclear. We exposed H9c2 cells and C57BL/6 mice to FCF, then evaluated cardiotoxicity in both in vitro and in vivo settings. Network pharmacology and gene sequencing analyses were employed to explore the mechanism of FCF-induced cardiotoxicity. Our results showed that FCF-induced cell death was linked to oxidative stress, mitochondrial damage, and inflammation in H9c2 cells. In FCF-treated mice, reduced cardiac function, increased myocardial fibrosis, and inflammation were observed. Looking at the underlying mechanisms, our network pharmacology and transcriptome sequencing results show that administering FCF increases NF-κB phosphorylation, which in turn activates the NLRP3/Caspase-1/GSDMD-N pathway. In addition, the NLRP3 inhibitor MCC950 alleviated FCF-induced cardiotoxicity, whereas the NLRP3 agonist nigericin exacerbated FCF-induced cardiotoxicity in vitro and in vivo. Additionally, our findings showed that knocking out Septin2 specifically in the heart did not cause cardiotoxicity in either H9c2 cells or mice, suggesting that FCF-induced cardiotoxicity occurs independently of Septin2 inhibition. Our study provides the evidence that FCF induces cardiotoxicity by activating the NF-κB/NLRP3 inflammasome. This discovery not only elucidates a novel molecular pathway underlying FCF-induced myocardial injury but also offers potential targets for therapeutic interventions, such as inhibitor of NLRP3, which could mitigate the cardiotoxic risks associated with agricultural exposure to FCF and improve public health safety.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The establishment of neuronal polarity, whereby somatodendritic and axonal cellular compartments are defined, is a critical determinant for the development of neuronal networks and patterning during neurogenesis. The axon initial segment (AIS), a key structure in the establishment of this polarity, is formed through interactions between the microtubule and actin cytoskeleton, Ankyrin G, TRIM46 and multiple transmembrane and perimembranous proteins. Here, we implicate a component of the septin cytoskeleton, Septin-2, in the maintenance and function of the AIS through the study of mutations found in five unrelated human individuals and one mother-daughter duo with a majority presenting with cognitive impairment. Septins form octameric rods that assemble into higher-order filamentous scaffolds driven by Septin-2 homodimerization. Mutant Septin-2 is predicted to impart a dominant negative blockade on septin octamers forming these structures by precluding Septin-2 homodimerization. Expression of mutant Septin-2 constructs in neurons leads to the disappearance of canonical hallmarks of the AIS. This includes loss of Ankyrin G in the AIS, aberrant localization of MAP2 within the distal axon, axonal shortening and electrophysiological hypoexcitability. We further show that Septin-2 binds to a neuron-specific domain of Ankyrin G, an interaction that is largely ablated by these mutations. These data establish a role for Septin-2 in the maintenance and function of the AIS and implicate cytoskeletal structures composed of septin oligomers in the establishment of higher cognitive functions in humans.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Guarantors of Brain.
What are the molecular mechanisms underlying hypoxia-induced male reproductive impairment?Hypoxia compromises Septin2 (Sept2) transcription in spermatogonia, which impedes spermatogonial proliferation through protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A)-dependent AKT dephosphorylation.Hypoxia is associated with impaired spermatogenesis and poor sperm parameters in men. Spermatogonia proliferation, a crucial early step in spermatogenesis, is essential for maintaining the spermatogenic cell population and ensuring sperm quality. However, the connection between hypoxia and spermatogonial proliferation remains poorly understood, and treatment options for hypoxia-related reproductive disorders are limited.A cross-sectional study analyzed semen samples from 24 high-altitude (HA) residents, 6 pathological hypoxia (PH) patients, and 19 healthy controls to evaluate hypoxia-associated sperm parameter alterations. Complementary animal studies employing a hypobaric chamber-induced hypoxic mouse model (n = 5) confirmed reproductive impairments through assessment of birth rates, sperm quality, and testicular histopathology. Transcriptomic profiling of hypoxic versus normoxic mouse testes (n = 3/group) identified spermatogonial proliferation defects as a predominant pathological feature and pinpointed Sept2 as a candidate mediator. Subsequent mechanistic investigations employed in vitro hypoxic culture of spermatogonial cell lines under hypoxic conditions coupled with pharmacological modulation of PP2A activity in mice (n = 3-5 per intervention group) to delineate the underlying molecular pathways.Semen parameters were evaluated using computer-assisted sperm analysis (CASA; for sperm concentration, count, and motility), morphological staining (Pap staining for sperm deformity), and eosin-nigrosin staining (for sperm viability). In the hypoxic mouse model, fertility outcomes were assessed through fertility assessment (mating experiments), sperm parameters (CASA), testicular histology (H&E staining), and spermatogonia proliferation (immunohistochemistry and qPCR). In hypoxic spermatogonial cell models, cell proliferation was detected using CCK-8, EdU incorporation, flow cytometry, and western blotting. Sept2 manipulation (knockdown/overexpression), followed by mechanistic analyses (dual-luciferase reporter assay, DNA pulldown/mass spectrometry, TMT-based quantitative proteomics, co-immunoprecipitation, etc.), was performed to investigate the mechanism underlying hypoxia-regulated spermatogonia proliferation. The SEPT2 inhibitor forchlorfenuron (FCF), the PP2A agonists celastrol, erlotinib, and FTY720, as well as PP2A inhibitor okadaic acid (OA) were used to investigate the role of the SEPT2-PP2A-AKT axis in male fertility regulation.Both human populations (HA residents and PH patients) and mouse model consistently demonstrated hypoxia-related reproductive dysfunction. Mechanistic analyses revealed that hypoxia significantly downregulated Sept2 expression in spermatogonia, concomitant with impaired proliferative capacity. Sept2 knockdown in normoxic mice phenocopied the hypoxia-induced defects in spermatogenesis. Complementary in vitro studies confirmed that Sept2 depletion impaired spermatogonial proliferation by inducing G1-S phase arrest, while its overexpression mitigated hypoxia-related proliferative defects. Further investigation revealed that hypoxia disrupts Sept2 transcription by interfering with the binding of RNA polymerase II subunit A (POLR2A) to the Sept2 promoter. The consequent reduction in Sept2 expression led to stabilization of the B56γ regulatory subunit of PP2A, resulting in enhanced AKT dephosphorylation and subsequent suppressed spermatogonial proliferation. Pharmacological intervention with the PP2A inhibitor OA restored reproductive competence and sperm quality in hypoxic mice, whereas PP2A agonists exacerbated these deficits.RNA-seq data are deposited in China National Center for Bioinformation (CNCB) under accession number PRJCA035733.This study focused on the effects of hypoxia on sperm parameters. Additional factors such as alterations in reproductive hormones and sexual function may contribute to hypoxia-induced infertility and warrant further research.This study identifies the SEPT2-PP2A/B56γ-AKT axis as a key regulator in hypoxia-related spermatogonia proliferation impairment. PP2A inhibitors such as OA may offer a therapeutic strategy to protect male fertility under hypoxic conditions.This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (No. 82101688) and Natural Science Foundation of Chongqing (No. CSTB2022NSCQ-MSX0943). The authors have no conflicts of interest to declare.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology.
Rho family small GTPases are key regulators of the actin cytoskeletal organization that controls cell morphology, but the regulatory mechanism of Rho small GTPase activity is not fully understood. Here we identified septin2, a component of the septin cytoskeleton, as an interacting protein of ARHGAP25, a GTPase-activating protein for Rho small GTPase Rac, in mammalian cells. ARHGAP25 colocalized with septin2 at lamellipodia, which are actin filament-rich protrusions. Overexpression of ARHGAP25 suppressed Rac-dependent lamellipodia formation and cell spreading, and ARHGAP25-mediated suppression was restored by depletion of septin2. Forced expression of septin2 enhanced ARHGAP25-mediated suppression of cell spreading, and septin2-enhanced suppression was restored by the depletion of ARHGAP25. These results suggest that septin2 controls cell morphology by regulating the function of ARHGAP25.© 2025 Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
Our knowledge of the assembly and dynamics of the cytokinetic contractile ring (CR) in animal cells remains incomplete. We have previously used super-resolution light microscopy and platinum replica electron microscopy to elucidate the ultrastructural organization of the CR in first division sea urchin embryos. To date, our studies indicate that the CR initiates as an equatorial band of clusters containing myosin II, actin, septin and anillin, which then congress over time into patches which coalesce into a linear array characteristic of mature CRs. In the present study, we applied super-resolution interferometric photoactivated localization microscopy to confirm the existence of septin filament-like structures in the developing CR, demonstrate the close associations between septin2, anillin, and myosin II in the CR, as well as to show that septin2 appears consistently submembranous, whereas anillin is more widely distributed in the early CR. We also provide evidence that the major actin cross-linking protein α-actinin only associates with the linearized, late-stage CR and not with the early CR clusters, providing further support to the idea that α-actinin associates with actomyosin structures under tension and can serve as a counterbalance. In addition, we show that inhibition of actomyosin contraction does not stop the assembly of the early CR clusters but does arrest the progression of these structures to the aligned arrays required for functional cytokinesis. Taken together our results reinforce and extend our model for a cluster to patch to linear structural progression of the CR in sea urchin embryos and highlight the evolutionary relationships with cytokinesis in fission yeast.Copyright © 2024 Henson, Reyes, Lo, Herrera, McKim, Herzon, Galvez-Ceron, Hershey, Kim and Shuster.
Chlordecone (CLD) is a pesticide persisting in soils and contaminating food webs. CLD is sequestered in the liver and poorly metabolized into chlordecol (CLDOH). In vitro liver cell models were used to investigate the fate and mechanistic effects of CLD and CLDOH using multiomics. A 3D-cell model was used to investigate whether CLD and CLDOH can affect susceptibility to the metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD). Hepatocytes were more sensitive to CLD than CLDOH. CLDOH was intensively metabolized into a glucuronide conjugate, whereas CLD was sequestered. CLD but not CLDOH induced a depletion of Septin-2,- 7,- 9,- 10,- 11 due to proteasomal degradation. Septin binding with CLD and CLDOH was confirmed by surface plasmon resonance. CLD disrupted lipid droplet size and increased saturated long-chain dicarboxylic acid production by inhibiting stearoyl-CoA desaturase (SCD) abundance. Neither CLD nor CLDOH induced steatosis, but CLD induced fibrosis in the 3D model of MASLD. To conclude, CLD hepatoxicity is specifically driven by the degradation of septins. CLDOH, was too rapidly metabolized to induce septin degradation. We show that the conversion of CLD to CLDOH reduced hepatotoxicity and fibrosis in liver organoids. This suggests that protective strategies could be explored to reduce the hepatotoxicity of CLD.Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Hair cell regeneration from supporting cells declines rapidly during early postnatal development, limiting therapeutic applications. We demonstrate that strategic microenvironmental remodeling can dramatically enhance inner ear progenitor cell (IEPC) function beyond what conventional marker-based approaches predict. Using functional screening focused on differentiation capacity rather than single progenitor markers (Lgr5), we discovered that concurrent Sonic hedgehog activation and BMP inhibition create a synergistic niche environment. This dual signaling approach generated high-purity Sox2+/Ki67+ IEPCs from postnatal day 7 (P7) supporting cells with 50.83%±1.76% hair cell differentiation efficiency. Single-cell RNA sequencing revealed that this strategy drives progenitor reprogramming by activating inner ear developmental gene programs while suppressing supporting cell identity. Regenerated hair cells exhibited functional mechanotransduction, voltage-gated currents, and drug sensitivity profiles. Importantly, this microenvironmental control strategy remained effective up to the P9 stage, demonstrating that niche reconstruction can overcome developmental stage-specific limitations in progenitor function. These findings establish niche remodeling as a powerful framework for enhancing stem cell therapeutic potential.© 2026. Science China Press.
The Fucci mouse lines are valuable tools for tracing cell cycle stages during development and in postnatal tissues; however, the insertion loci for the transgenes remain unidentified. Here, we report the genomic insertion sites of both the Fucci-G1 and -S/G2/M transgenes, identified through whole-genome sequencing. Interestingly, the Fucci-G1 transgene is located proximal to the Shh lung gut enhancer (SLGE) on chromosome 5. Homozygous Fucci-G1 embryos are perinatal lethal but survive until embryonic day (E)18.5, exhibiting craniofacial and foregut-related defects. Expression of Shh and canonical targets are downregulated in the pharyngeal arches of E11.5 homozygous Fucci-G1 embryos. Furthermore, in situ hybridization analysis showed diminished Shh expression in the pharyngeal and foregut endoderm, consistent with disruptions to SLGE activity. Our results indicate that heterozygous Fucci-G1 mice are suitable for cell cycle studies; however, we caution potential genetic interference when investigating SHH-related pathways.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis dysregulation is a hallmark of major depressive disorder in adults. However, the long-term impact of adolescent depression on adult HPA axis function and adrenal steroidogenesis remains unclear. To address this, we exposed male mice to chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) during postnatal weeks (PW) 4-8 to model adolescent depression. At PW8, CUMS mice exhibited elevated HPA axis activity and enhanced adrenal steroidogenesis, confirming successful model induction. By PW16 (adulthood), HPA axis activity had normalized, whereas adrenal steroidogenesis was markedly suppressed. Transcriptomic analysis followed by validation revealed downregulation of Hedgehog signaling components in the adrenal glands of CUMS mice at PW16. Furthermore, a persistent reduction in H3K4me3 enrichment at the SHH promoter was observed from PW8 to PW16. In vitro, corticosterone treatment reduced SHH promoter H3K4me3 levels and inhibited Hedgehog signaling in adrenocortical cells. Collectively, these findings indicate that adolescent CUMS impairs adult adrenal steroidogenesis via glucocorticoid-mediated epigenetic repression of the SHH/Hedgehog signaling pathway. This study provides novel mechanistic insights into the persistent endocrine consequences of adolescent depression.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
This study aimed to evaluate the role and optimal timing of radiotherapy following intensive chemotherapy in infants with medulloblastoma (MB), and to explore whether molecular subtyping may inform radiotherapy timing strategies.We conducted a retrospective cohort study including 105 children aged < 3 years with MB treated at Beijing Shijitan Hospital, Capital Medical University, between 2013 and 2023. Clinical data were collected to compare clinical characteristics and survival outcomes across different radiotherapy strategies.Among 105 infants with MB, 67 (63.8%) were classified as SHH, 18 (17.1%) as Group 3, and 20 (19.0%) as Group 4, with no WNT cases identified. The SHH subgroup demonstrated significantly better survival than the Non-SHH subgroup (comprising Group 3 and Group 4), with 3-year overall survival (OS) of 80.2% versus 46.0% and progression-free survival (PFS) of 62.6% versus 30.4% (both P < 0.001). Patients were stratified into chemotherapy-only, upfront radiotherapy, and salvage radiotherapy groups based on treatment timing. In SHH patients, upfront radiotherapy did not confer additional survival benefit over chemotherapy alone (P = 0.658), whereas salvage radiotherapy was associated with longer observed OS (P = 0.005). In contrast, in the Non-SHH subgroup, chemotherapy alone was associated with a high progression rate (85.7%), and radiotherapy was associated with improved survival outcomes.Real-world data demonstrate distinct differences between SHH and Non-SHH infant MBs in survival outcomes and radiotherapy strategies. The SHH subtype showed favorable survival with systemic chemotherapy, whereas the Non-SHH subtype exhibited limited disease control with chemotherapy alone, suggesting a more critical role for radiotherapy in this population.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Previous studies from us and others suggest that the second heart field (SHF)-derived outflow tract (OFT) wall can undergo a cell fate transition to mesenchymal cells within the intercalated valve swelling (ICVS). However, the trajectory of this transition and its intrinsic regulation remain unknown. Here, we investigate cell fate determination in OFT development and identify specific Nkx2-5 expression in the inferior midline OFT (imOFT) wall and adjacent ICVS. scRNA-seq of E10.5 OFT revealed a transcriptional signature specific to the imICVS within the heterogeneous cell populations. We observed that cells of the imOFT wall ingress while maintaining myocyte properties, whereas the leading cells initiate a transition to a mesenchymal fate. Furthermore, these ingressing cells exhibit 'lily-bulb' collective cell migration. In addition, we found that β-catenin, Shh and FGF8 signaling are associated with imICVS formation. These results identify a novel type of cell ingression and the imICVS appears to spatially coordinate the distribution of OFT main cushion derived from neural crest. This study provides new insights into the role of the SHF in OFT septation and the pathogenesis of congenital heart diseases.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Subgroup-SHH of medulloblastoma (MB) is primarily found in children, with an increased propensity for metastatic presentation that contributes to its poor prognosis. Current therapy approaches may include surgery, radiation, systematic chemotherapy, and autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT). At relapse, patients may receive additional chemotherapy and radiation if possible. The outcome for relapsed patients is 10-30% long term survival. Herein we present a case of a 6-year-old male with a pathologically confirmed diagnosis of subgroup-SHH MB, who was treated with upfront surgical resections, high-dose chemotherapy, and ASCT. Nine months after completion of upfront therapy, the subject relapsed. Subsequently, he was enrolled onto NMTRC009 (NCT02162732) and underwent biopsy with genomic sequencing (DNA whole exome and RNA transcriptome). A molecular tumor board, using precision medicine analysis, recommended vorinostat, vismodegib, curcumin, and palbociclib as targeted therapy. This therapy resulted in a complete tumor response and long-term survival. A cell line was derived from the subject's tumor and used for in vitro testing. Combined molecular therapies demonstrated synergistic efficacy compared with single-agent treatment.Copyright © 2026 Vazquez, Lerch, Gandra, Moore, Lincoln, Nagulapally, Treadway, Thamburaj, Brown and Sholler.
Supernumerary teeth are common congenital dental anomalies resulting from disrupted epithelial-mesenchymal interactions during tooth development. Although Hedgehog signaling is known to regulate tooth development, its temporal requirement for tooth number determination remains elusive. To investigate the role of early epithelial Hedgehog signaling, we conditionally deleted Smo in the dental epithelium using Pitx2-Cre, which initiates recombination at E10.5, prior to the onset of K14-Cre activity. SmoPitx2Cre mutant mice developed two supernumerary mandibular incisors together with defective ameloblast differentiation and disrupted enamel formation. BrdU labeling revealed significantly increased cell proliferation in the lingual cervical loop, with no changes in apoptosis. In situ hybridization showed reduced expression of Wnt inhibitors Dkk1 and Sostdc1, accompanied by upregulation of the Wnt target gene Lef1, indicating aberrant activation of the Wnt/β-catenin pathway in SmoPitx2Cre incisors. Treatment with SHH in vitro upregulated Dkk1 and Sostdc1 expression, confirming that Hedgehog signaling positively regulates these Wnt inhibitors. Moreover, the SmoPitx2Cre mutant mice exhibited decreased expression of Fgf3, Sp6, Dlx2, and Msx2, genes implicated in ameloblast differentiation and dental patterning. Together, these findings demonstrate that epithelial Hedgehog signaling is required during early odontogenesis to establish normal tooth patterning through coordinated regulation of Wnt signaling and epithelial-mesenchymal communication, while simultaneously promoting ameloblast differentiation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42511912 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42510803 is a review article
Maternal stress has been associated with altered embryonic and fetal development, yet the mechanisms by which stress hormones influence early developmental processes remain poorly understood. Early embryogenesis is particularly sensitive because it establishes the vertebrate body plan through tightly regulated events such as somitogenesis. Disruptions during this developmental window may therefore compromise normal morphogenesis and tissue organization. In the present study, we investigated whether elevated acute corticosterone exposure affects somite phenotype and Sonic hedgehog (SHH) signalling during early embryogenesis using the avian chick embryo model. Fertilized specific pathogen-free (SPF) chick eggs were incubated until Hamburger-Hamilton stage 12 (approximately 48 h of incubation) and subsequently injected with 15 µg corticosterone into the yolk sac to mimic acute high-stress conditions for 4 h. Macroscopic examination revealed increased inter-somitic distances between the first five visible pairs of somites in corticosterone-treated embryos compared with controls, suggesting altered somite organization. In addition, histological assessment indicated that corticosterone-treated embryos displayed occasional cells with morphological features consistent with cellular degeneration or cell death. Molecular analysis demonstrated significant downregulation of SHH and GLI1 expression, indicating potential impairment of the SHH signalling axis during somitogenesis. The expression of TGFβ4 was also reduced, whereas HIF2α expression was elevated. These findings suggest a possible association between stress-induced hypoxic responses and altered developmental signalling, warranting further investigation. To the best of our knowledge, this is among the first in vivo studies to examine the relationship between elevated corticosterone exposure and SHH-associated somite development during early embryogenesis.
Background/Objectives: High-grade serous ovarian carcinoma (HGSC) is the most aggressive subtype of epithelial ovarian cancer and is characterized by marked heterogeneity of the tumor immune microenvironment. SET morphology has been associated with homologous recombination deficiency and BRCA1/2 mutations; however, its relationship with the immune microenvironment and progression-free survival (PFS) remains insufficiently understood. This study investigated the association between SET morphology, immune microenvironment characteristics, and PFS in patients with advanced-stage HGSC. Methods: A retrospective cohort of 305 patients with FIGO stage III-IV HGSC treated with primary surgery between 1996 and 2021 was analyzed. Histopathological assessment included evaluation of SET morphology, stromal and intraepithelial tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (sTILs and itTILs), tumor immune phenotype, and lymphoid aggregates. Immunohistochemical analyses included CD8 and PD-L1 expression. Associations between SET morphology and immune parameters were evaluated using χ2 and logistic regression analyses. PFS was assessed using Kaplan-Meier analysis, log-rank testing, and Cox proportional hazards regression. Results: SET morphology was significantly associated with higher sTIL and itTIL levels, increased stromal and intraepithelial CD8+ T-cell infiltration, higher PD-L1 TPS and CPS, more frequent primary and secondary lymphoid aggregates, and a predominance of the inflamed immune phenotype (all p < 0.05). Despite these features of an immune-active tumor microenvironment, SET morphology, CD8+ T-cell density, PD-L1 expression, lymphoid aggregates, and immune phenotype were not independently associated with prolonged PFS. In contrast, age remained an independent prognostic factor, with patients older than 55 years having a 50% higher risk of disease progression than younger patients (HR = 1.5, 95% CI: 1.1-2.1; p = 0.012). Higher intraepithelial TIL levels (>10%) were independently associated with improved PFS (HR = 2.1, 95% CI: 1.0-4.4; p = 0.045). Conclusions: SET morphology identifies an immune-active subtype of HGSC characterized by increased immune infiltration and PD-L1 expression but does not independently predict prolonged PFS. The dissociation between immune cell abundance and clinical outcome suggests that immune cell functionality, rather than immune infiltration alone, may determine prognosis. Routine histopathological assessment of SET morphology may facilitate biological characterization of HGSC and provide a practical surrogate marker for future biomarker-driven studies evaluating immunotherapy and targeted treatment strategies.
Serous tubal intraepithelial lesion (STIL) is an uncommon precursor lesion in the spectrum of tubal serous neoplasia, characterised by atypical epithelial proliferation, aberrant p53 expression and a low proliferative index. Chronic inflammatory conditions such as tuberculosis may contribute to carcinogenesis through persistent epithelial injury. This report describes the case of a 29-year-old woman with previously treated tubercular endometritis who presented with persistent pelvic pain and bilateral pyosalpinx. Diagnostic laparoscopy revealed grossly enlarged fallopian tubes with torsion and purulent intraluminal contents, necessitating bilateral salpingectomy. Histopathological examination demonstrated chronic granulomatous salpingitis with focal epithelial atypia. Immunohistochemistry showed diffuse abnormal p53 overexpression (80%) and a low Ki-67 proliferation index (<10%), consistent with STIL. Marked cytological atypia and high proliferative activity were absent, favouring STIL over serous tubal intraepithelial carcinoma. This case highlights a rare association between chronic tuberculous inflammation and early tubal neoplastic transformation. It emphasises the importance of meticulous histopathological and immunohistochemical evaluation of salpingectomy specimens.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V.
In triple-negative and HER2-positive breast cancer, tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) are established predictive and prognostic biomarkers, but their role in luminal subtypes remains unclear. We investigated the prognostic significance of TILs using AI-based image analysis in 2298 luminal breast cancers from the DBCG99c cohort, classified by PAM50. Stromal (sTIL) and intraepithelial (iTIL) densities were quantified automatically using a commercial platform. Higher stromal TIL infiltration was associated with improved overall survival, particularly within the first 5 years (heterogeneity p = 0.01). In multivariable models, higher sTILs independently predicted lower risk of distant or any recurrence (sHR = 0.95, 95% CI 0.91-0.99) and improved survival (HR = 0.91, 95% CI 0.85-0.97 early; HR = 0.99, 95% CI 0.97-1.00 late). Intraepithelial TILs were not prognostic. No significant interactions were observed by molecular subtype, nodal status, or grade, although a nonsignificant trend toward stronger iTIL effects appeared in luminal B tumors. AI-based TIL quantification thus provides independent prognostic information in high-risk luminal breast cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42370654 is a review article
Female patients with ER+HER2- breast cancer have a favourable prognosis for 5-10 years. Later relapses are, however, common, yet predictions of late recurrence risk are suboptimal, particularly for patients with intermediate risk determined by the Oncotype Dx Recurrence Score (RS, 16-25). Here, we analyse tissue samples from patients with ER+HER2- breast cancer using spatial proteomics (multiplex immunofluorescence with 5 markers, n = 440) and spatial transcriptomics (n = 359), and find decoupled immune states between stroma and epithelia. Moreover, inflamed stroma express genes linked to tissue remodelling, immune exhaustion, and inhibitory/checkpoint receptors (CTLA4, TIGIT, CD96); inflamed epithelia similarly express genes associated with checkpoints (CTLA4) and exhaustion (CXCL13), but also genes attributed to antigen presentation. In our randomised, Intermediate RS cohort treated with chemotherapy we observe an association between higher stromal tumour-infiltrating CD8+ lymphocyte (sTIL CD8+) density and poor outcome (ΔLR-χ2: 6.79, p = 0.009), which we validate using data from whole-resection specimens (ΔLR-χ2: 8.90, p = 0.003). Our data thus provide insights into the immune states in ER+HER2- breast cancer, and propose sTIL CD8+ density as candidate biomarker for treatment decisions.© 2026. The Author(s).
To evaluate the prevalence and spectrum of occult invasive or preneoplastic lesions detected at risk-reducing salpingo-oophorectomy (RRSO) in BRCA1/2 carriers and to describe recurrent BRCA variants in a regional multicenter cohort.This multicenter retrospective cohort study included 291 women with documented germline pathogenic BRCA1/2 alterations who underwent RRSO at three referral centers in Apulia, Italy, between 2020 and 2025. The primary endpoint was occult invasive or microinvasive tubo-ovarian malignancy at final histopathology. Secondary endpoints included serous tubal intraepithelial carcinoma (STIC), the distribution of histopathologic findings, distribution according to BRCA group, and recurrent annotated BRCA variants.After excluding one patient with ovarian metastasis, occult invasive or microinvasive tubo-ovarian malignancy was identified in 24/290 patients (8.3%), while STICs were identified in 5/290 (1.7%). STIL was observed in 3/291 patients (1.0%). Overall, 29/290 patients (10.0%; 95% confidence interval 7.1-14.0) met the composite endpoint of occult invasive or microinvasive primary tubo-ovarian malignancy or STIC. Among pathogenic variant carriers, the prevalence of the same endpoint was 20/159 (12.6%) in BRCA1 carriers and 9/131 (6.9%) in BRCA2 carriers (p = 0.119). Specific BRCA mutation was available for 154/291 patients (52.9%); BRCA1 c.5266dupC was the most frequent recurrent annotated variant, accounting for 43/154 (27.9%) annotated variants overall and 43/81 (53.1%) annotated BRCA1 variants.In this multicenter BRCA1/2 cohort, occult invasive or microinvasive primary tubo-ovarian malignancy and STIC were identified in approximately one in ten women undergoing RRSO. Most positive cases represented occult invasive or microinvasive malignancy, and BRCA1 c.5266dupC emerged as the dominant recurrent regional variant.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42252253 is a review article
Background and Objective: The clinical success of novel antibody-drug conjugates has led to the identification of a new subgroup within traditionally HER2-negative breast cancers, termed 'HER2-low.' The aim of this study was to investigate the clinicopathological differences between HER2-low and HER2-negative groups in neoadjuvant-naive primary breast cancer patients, with a specific focus on stromal tumor-infiltrating lymphocyte (sTIL) density. Materials and Methods: The study included 731 neoadjuvant-naive invasive breast cancer patients. Tumors were classified as HER2-negative (IHC 0) and HER2-low (IHC 1+ or 2+/ISH-negative). sTIL levels were evaluated following the International TILs Working Group guidelines. Results: The HER2-low group (38.7%) demonstrated significantly higher histological grade (p = 0.033) and higher sTIL density (p = 0.006) compared to the HER2-negative group. A stepwise increase in sTIL rates was observed parallel to the HER2 immunohistochemical score (0 → 1+ → 2+) (p = 0.015). The HER2-low/hormone receptor (HR)-negative subgroup exhibited the highest sTIL density (median 35%). No statistically significant difference in overall or disease-free survival was found between the groups. Conclusions: HER2-low breast cancers were associated with a more immunogenic tumor microenvironment compared to HER2-negative tumors. This robust immune infiltration may offset the higher histological grade observed in the HER2-low cohort, potentially explaining the comparable survival outcomes. These findings provide a biological rationale for exploring the synergy between novel antibody-drug conjugates and immune checkpoint inhibitors, particularly in the highly immunogenic HER2-low/HR-negative subgroup.
Stromal tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (sTILs), quantified via hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) tumor slides, are associated with improved response to chemotherapy and better overall survival (OS) in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). Digitization of H&E slides offers the opportunity for image-based computational approaches to enumerate sTILs. We describe QuTILs, a research-based TIL enumeration approach using a multilayer perceptron-based framework trained on open-source H&E images using the QuPath software and executed on a standard computer. QuTILs was applied to H&E images from two phase III TNBC clinical trials, CALGB 40502 and 40603 (total n = 462 patients). In Cox proportional hazards models, QuTILs showed significant univariate association in CALGB 40502, with higher TIL% associated with reduced hazard (HR: 0.75, 95% CI: 0.63-0.91), which remained significant in multivariable models and validation CALGB 40603 TNBC clinical trial. In summary, QuTILs provides a computationally efficient, open-source workflow for sTIL identification from digital H&E images for research application.
To explore circadian involvement in periodontitis and provide insight into mechanisms.Clinical samples from patients with periodontitis and a ligature-induced periodontitis mouse model were used in the present research. The rhythmic pattern of cortisol, the core circadian rhythm proteins BMAL1 and CLOCK, the expression of senescence markers (p16, p21, and p53), and the percentage and length of primary cilia were detected in hPDLSCs (human periodontal ligament stem cells) exposed to cortisol as an in vitro model of cortisol-associated circadian disruption. BMAL1 expression was manipulated by siRNA transfection to knock down BMAL1 expression, and SR8278 treatment was used to modulate BMAL1-related circadian regulation. Moreover, the effects of SR8278 on the progression of periodontitis were evaluated by micro-CT, mouse behavior tests, the number of primary cilia, and senescence assays.Patients with periodontitis and ligature-induced periodontitis mice exhibited elevated cortisol levels, reduced BMAL1 expression, increased senescence-associated markers, and decreased primary cilia abundance. Elevated cortisol was associated with circadian disruption, accompanied by reduced BMAL1 expression and impaired ciliary homeostasis. BMAL1 regulated ARL13B expression, a key regulator of ciliogenesis. BMAL1 knockdown impaired Hedgehog signaling and induced hPDLSC senescence. SR8278 partially recovered BMAL1-related circadian alterations and primary cilia abundance while attenuating cellular senescence in both periodontitis model mice and cortisol-treated hPDLSCs.Collectively, these findings support the involvement of the cortisol-BMAL1-ARL13B pathway in periodontitis-associated primary cilium dysfunction and hPDLSC senescence. Modulation of BMAL1 partially restored primary cilium homeostasis and attenuated periodontal tissue damage, supporting its potential as a therapeutic target for periodontitis.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The molecular mechanisms by which primary cilia regulate energy homeostasis remain poorly understood. Here, we evaluated whether the ciliary GTPase ARL13B regulates energy homeostasis and whether its localization to cilia is required to control body weight and feeding. Using genetic tools to isolate cilia-specific functions, we found that systemic exclusion of ARL13B from cilia causes hyperphagia and obesity in mice and that ciliary ARL13B is required in the nervous system for weight control. These findings identify ciliary ARL13B as a key regulator of energy homeostasis, contributing to our understanding of how primary cilia act as metabolic signaling hubs.© 2026 by the American Diabetes Association.
Extracellular vesicles (EVs), as antimicrobial factors, load a variety of immune-related molecules, play a complex and critical role in host-pathogen interactions. The regulatory mechanism of how EVs respond to external stimuli by regulating immune regulatory elements in the innate immune response of marine invertebrates remains unresolved. To address this, we conducted a global transcriptomic analysis of hemocytes in Chlamys farreri stimulated by EVs derived from different sources. Transcriptomic analysis identified 892 specifically upregulated and 246 specifically downregulated genes in the group of scallops injected with EVs obtained after LPS stimulation (group S) relative to the group of scallops injected with PBS buffer (group P). Functional annotation analysis revealed that the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) participate in critical immune signaling pathways, including the NOD-like receptor, RIG-I-like receptor, and HIF-1 signaling pathways. Among the DEGs unique to the group S, we identified canonical genes linked to autophagy, apoptosis, and immune responses, such as cell division control protein 42 homolog (CDC42), dual specificity protein phosphatase 1 (DUSP1), TNF receptor-associated factor 3 (TRAF3), Caspase 3 (CASP3), serine/threonine-protein kinase ULK3 (ULK3), and Myeloid differentiation primary response protein MyD88-3 (MyD88-3). Protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis pointed to ADP-ribosylation factor (CDKN2A), phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate 3-phosphatase and dual-specificity protein phosphatase (PTEN), CDC42, CASP3, and the downregulated protein heat shock protein 90 (HSP90) as prominent hub DEGs involved in the regulation of innate immunity. Temporal analysis of selected immune DEGs further demonstrated the immunomodulatory role of EVs in Chlamys farreri. Our study establishes that EVs are essential for regulating innate immunity in marine invertebrates, offering novel insights for shellfish disease prevention and control.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Recent studies have found that the reticulophagy pathway is able to clear excess endoplasmic reticulum to protect cells from endoplasmic reticulum stress-induced damage. The role of reticulophagy in prostate cancer is still unknown. Key genes of reticulophagy were studied. Subsequently, the ULK3 and CAMK2B mRNA levels were confirmed. ULK3 and CAMK2B expression were elevated in prostate cancer tissues. The silencing of ULK3 inhibited prostate cancer cell vitality. The overexpression of ULK3 had the opposite effect. ULK3 was able to enhance the CAMK2B protein expression by promoting the entry of GLI1 into the nucleus, thereby upregulating the level of reticulophagy. Knockdown of CAMK2B could inhibit reticulophagy induced by ULK3. Further experiments showed that ULK3 phosphorylated GLI1, promoted its nuclear entry and binding to the CAMK2B promoter to enhance CAMK2B expression. Down-regulation of ULK3 inhibited the growth of prostate cancer vitality in vivo. This study confirmed that ULK3 promoted the prostate cancer by upregulating GLI1/CAMK2B-induced reticulophagy.AJCR Copyright © 2026.
Unc-51-like kinase 3 (ULK3) is a key member of the ULK serine/threonine kinase family. Aberrant ULK3 expression has been increasingly linked to tumorigenesis and malignant progression in multiple cancer types. However, the precise role of ULK3 in tumor initiation and progression remains incompletely understood. Leveraging integrated multi-omics data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), the Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx) project, and the Clinical Proteomic Tumor Analysis Consortium (CPTAC), we systematically characterized the expression of ULK3 at both the transcript and protein levels across 33 cancer types. We also evaluated genomic alterations, prognostic significance, alternative splicing, pathway enrichment, tumor stemness, immune infiltration, and immunotherapy-related biomarkers. In parallel, we investigated the function of ULK3 in prostate cancer PC-3 cells using cellular localization analysis, wound-healing assays, and MTT assays. We further applied Connectivity Map (CMap) screening and molecular docking to identify candidate ULK3 activators. ULK3 was significantly upregulated in 13 cancer types, including Bladder Urothelial Carcinoma, Breast Invasive Carcinoma, and Lung Adenocarcinoma. In contrast, ULK3 was downregulated in Cholangiocarcinoma and Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma. High ULK3 expression was associated with poor overall survival in Adrenocortical Carcinoma, Kidney Renal Clear Cell Carcinoma, and Skin Cutaneous Melanoma. Copy number amplification contributed to ULK3 overexpression. A recurrent A206V missense mutation was detected in the protein kinase (Pkinase) domain. Genes co-expressed with ULK3 were enriched in RNA splicing, methylation, oxidative phosphorylation, and energy metabolism. ULK3 expression showed positive correlations with tumor stemness indices and m1A/m5C/m6A RNA modification regulators. From an immunological perspective, high ULK3 expression was associated with lower Immune Score, increased M2 macrophage infiltration, and co-expression of PD-L1, CTLA4, and LAG3 in most cancers. ULK3 expression was also correlated with Tumor Mutational Burden in Kidney Renal Clear Cell Carcinoma and Rectum Adenocarcinoma. In addition, ULK3 expression was associated with Microsatellite Instability in Brain Lower Grade Glioma, Lung Adenocarcinoma, and Uterine Corpus Endometrial Carcinoma. ULK3 overexpression promoted proliferation and migration in PC-3 cells. Cephaeline was screened as a putative ULK3 activator. Overall, ULK3 expression and amplification were associated with poor clinical outcomes, tumor stemness, immunosuppression, and RNA dysregulation. These findings highlight the potential value of ULK3 as a pan-cancer diagnostic and prognostic biomarker and as a predictor of immunotherapy response, particularly in prostate cancer.
Mutations in the ciliary gene INPP5E, encoding inositol polyphosphate-5-phosphatase E (INPP5E), can cause retinal degeneration as part of the ciliopathy Joubert syndrome or non-syndromic retinitis pigmentosa (RP). INPP5E regulates the membrane makeup of the primary cilium; however, its function in the specialized sensory photoreceptor cells of the human retina remain unclear. Here, we utilize control and CRISPR/Cas9-generated INPP5E knockout (INPP5ED477N/D477N) human induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) to generate retinal organoids (ROs). Through proteomic and immunofluorescence analysis, we show that INPP5E plays an important role in early retinal development and photoreceptor progenitor cell differentiation. In mature ROs, INPP5E localizes to the connecting cilium of photoreceptors, and the loss of INPP5E leads to altered localization of ARL13B and rhodopsin in mature photoreceptors. Furthermore, photoreceptor outer segment structure is affected, leading to elongated outer segment membranes in both cone and rod photoreceptors, suggesting an important role for INPP5E in photoreceptor outer segment membrane biogenesis. Together, these data underline the importance of INPP5E in retina development and photoreceptor structure and highlight the usability of ROs to study protein function in a human context.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Extracellular vesicles (EVs) contribute to the damage caused by traumatic brain injury (TBI) and can cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB). We analyzed plasma-derived EVs from human TBI patients to identify factors potentially contributing to TBI pathology. EVs were isolated using membrane affinity (ExoEasy) and size exclusion chromatography, both yielding CD9(+) and CD63(+) EVs with minimal contamination by serum albumin and apolipoprotein. Immunoblotting detected GFAP in TBI but not control EVs, indicating astrocyte-derived EVs crossing the BBB. Proteomic analysis and immunoblotting of EVs from TBI samples identified C-reactive protein and 14-3-3 proteins, which were not detected in control EVs, indicating inflammation associated with TBI. Lipidomic analysis showed ceramide enrichment in TBI EVs, validated by anti-ceramide immunoprecipitation. In a mouse closed head-controlled cortical impact model, brain EVs similarly showed elevated ceramide, confirming ceramide-rich EV release after TBI. Immunocytochemistry localized acid sphingomyelinase (ASM), a ceramide-generating enzyme, to ependymal cilia, suggesting these sites as a potential source of EVs. This was further supported by the detection of ASM in both brain- and plasma-derived EVs, along with the ciliary marker Arl13b in the brain. To assess function, we treated murine neuronal (N2a) cells with TBI EVs. Transcriptomics and STRING analyses revealed enrichment of mitochondrial-associated transcripts. Immunoblotting showed increased p53 and voltage-dependent anion channel 1 (VDAC1), both of which have been implicated in ceramide-induced apoptosis. Seahorse assays showed that TBI EVs suppressed glycolysis, as indicated by reduced ECAR, while mitochondrial respiration (OCR) remained unchanged. LDH assays further indicated that TBI EVs were more neurotoxic than control EVs. Together, these findings identify ceramide-rich EVs as plasma biomarkers of TBI-induced inflammation, potential mediators of neuronal mitochondrial dysfunction, and pharmacological targets to prevent TBI-induced damage.© 2026. This is a U.S. Government work and not under copyright protection in the US; foreign copyright protection may apply.
Assessing SCD phenotype is challenging, hindering progress in care and quality of life. Pain crises are the hallmark of SCD, but no reliable prognostic biomarker exists due to its complex pathophysiology. ADP-ribosylation factor-like protein 13b (ARL13b), a small GTPase localized to primary cilia, is present on sickle RBCs and in plasma, therefore RBC-bound ARL13b may thus predict pain crises in SCD.Blood samples from SCD patients were analyzed for ARL13b on RBCs and soluble ARL13b (sARL13b). Retrospective chart reviews tracked hospitalizations for pain crises within 3 months before and after enrollment, hemolysis markers (hemoglobin, bilirubin, lactate dehydrogenase), and disease severity indicators (crisis frequency, acute chest syndrome, kidney disease, cerebrovascular accident). Correlations were calculated between ARL13b measures, pain crises, hemolysis, and severity.In our pilot study, significant correlations existed between the percentage of RBCs carrying ARL13b measured on the day of enrollment, and the number of pain crisis experienced by the patients during the 3 months following enrollment (r = 0.3724, P = .0301), and clinical severity score (r = 0.5791, P = .0003). However, no correlation was found between the percentage of RBCs carrying ARL13b or sARL13b with the number of pain crisis experienced by the patients during the 3 months prior to enrollment, Hb, bilirubin, or LDH.In this exploratory study, ARL13b detected on sickle RBCs provides not only an objective prognostic biomarker of pain crisis, but also a potentially unbiased predictor of SCD severity.
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a progressive and fatal lung disease characterized by persistent inflammation, aberrant extracellular matrix remodeling, and impaired tissue repair. Current antifibrotic drugs can slow disease progression but cannot reverse established fibrosis, highlighting the need to identify novel mechanism-based therapeutic targets.We integrated batch-corrected transcriptomic data from the Gene Expression Omnibus with UK Biobank genome-wide association study statistics, including 1,369 cases and 435,866 controls, and proteomic GWAS instruments for plasma and cerebrospinal fluid proteins. Causal associations were evaluated using two-sample Mendelian randomization, Steiger filtering, reverse causality testing, and independent dataset validation. Expression-level validation was performed using bleomycin-induced mouse fibrosis and TGF-β1-stimulated fibroblast models.Twelve proteins were identified as being associated with IPF risk, including eight pro-fibrotic mediators, such as FN1, CCL5, PPID, and CDON, and four protective factors, including SCARF2, IL7R, ESAM, and CD274. Multi-omics integration and experimental validation prioritized four candidate proteins: SCARF2 as a protective factor, and FN1, PPID, and CDON as pro-fibrotic factors. Network analysis linked FN1 to extracellular matrix remodeling and SCARF2 to scavenger receptor-mediated immune regulation, indicating distinct fibrotic and immunomodulatory pathways.These findings identify several potential therapeutic targets for IPF and provide a translational framework for developing disease-modifying therapies that may overcome the limitations of current antifibrotic treatments.Copyright © 2026 Chen, Chen, Zhao, Li, Chang, Shi, Xu, Li and Chen.
Temozolomide (TMZ) resistance presents a serious challenge in glioma treatment. It has been revealed that high expression of ADP-ribosylation factor-like GTPase 13B (ARL13B) is an important risk factor for glioma patients and is strongly related to RHO GTPase. Here, we presented a unique mechanism by which ARL13B induces TMZ resistance. The TCGA and CGGA datasets were used to conduct survival analysis. Metascape was utilized to perform pathway enrichment analysis. Western blot (WB), nanoparticle tracking analysis (NTA), and liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) were used to explore the mechanisms of drug vesicular exocytosis that leads to ARL13B-mediated TMZ resistance. WB, qRT-PCR, and ChIP were used to validate the extracellular-regulated kinase (ERK)/P90 transcriptional regulatory signaling pathways. The expression of ARL13B increased ectosome efflux and decreased intracellular drug concentration. Besides, the ERK/P90 pathway could transcriptionally regulate ARL13B with C/EBPβ being one of the transcription factors of ARL13B. Inhibiting the ERK/P90 pathway could enhance the efficacy of TMZ. ARL13B was regulated by the ERK/P90 pathway and might impair the efficacy of TMZ by increasing drug efflux through ectosomes. Therefore, our study provided a novel mechanism of TMZ resistance and identifies a new target for glioma therapy.© 2026. The Author(s).
GLI1-altered mesenchymal neoplasms are a recently described tumour group characterized by gene fusions or amplifications involving GLI1. They show a wide anatomical distribution and harbour potential to metastasize. This study aims to add to the data on GLI1-altered mesenchymal tumours involving the dermis and subcutis.Departmental files were searched for GLI1-altered mesenchymal neoplasms involving the dermis and/or subcutis. Clinicopathological features were reviewed, and cases were assessed by immunohistochemistry, GLI1 in situ hybridization, and targeted next-generation sequencing.Eight tumours were identified and located on the scalp (n = 3), gluteal region (n = 2), inguinal region (n = 1), supraclavicular area (n = 1), and the left index finger (n = 1). Seven men and one woman were affected (aged 24-78 years, median 53). Histopathologically, the tumours showed a multinodular growth pattern within the dermis and/or subcutaneous adipose tissue, were composed of ovoid cells with mild to moderate atypia, arranged in nests, sheets or strands. Most of them were associated with a rich capillary network. Mitotic activity was variable (0-22 per 10 high power fields). Necrosis was present in two cases. Gene fusion testing demonstrated a novel TUBA1A::GLI1 fusion in one of three cases tested. This tumour showed strong SOX10 and S100 positivity by immunohistochemistry while the remaining tumours were negative or only focally positive for both markers. All patients were alive at last follow-up: seven disease-free without recurrences and one patient with advanced localized disease and metastasis to bone.Superficial GLI1-altered mesenchymal tumours show a spectrum of histopathological presentations, inconsistent immunophenotypes and variable biological behaviour.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Tubulinopathies encompass a clinically and neuroradiologically diverse group of neurodevelopmental disorders caused by mutations in genes encoding tubulins and microtubule-associated proteins. This study aims to delineate the extensive phenotypic and genotypic spectrum within a pediatric cohort.We conducted a multicenter retrospective analysis of 15 pediatric patients from 12 unrelated families with genetically confirmed tubulinopathies across five tertiary centers in Turkey. Clinical data, seizure profiles, and neuroradiological findings were systematically evaluated.Genetic analysis identified 12 distinct pathogenic variants across seven genes (TUBA1A, TUBB2A, TUBB2B, TUBB3, TUBB4A, TUBG1, TUBGCP2), including four novel variants. The most prevalent clinical features included microcephaly (93.3%), global developmental delay (86.7%), and epilepsy (73.3%). Notably, one patient with TUBB2A-related tubulinopathy experienced a probable sudden unexpected death in epilepsy (SUDEP). Movement disorders were observed in 33.3% of the cohort, including dystonia and mirror movements. Neuroradiological assessment revealed corpus callosum anomalies (76.9%) and cortical malformations (76.9%) as the most frequent findings. Furthermore, we identified a rare case of TUBGCP2-related tubulinopathy presenting with cystic leukomalacia, expanding the known radiological spectrum.Our findings underscore the profound genetic and phenotypic heterogeneity of tubulin-related disorders. The identification of rare variants and specific complications, such as SUDEP, highlights the necessity for comprehensive clinical monitoring and standardized management guidelines to optimize outcomes for this complex patient population.© 2026. Fondazione Società Italiana di Neurologia.
Varicocele is a leading cause of male infertility, primarily manifesting as asthenozoospermia. The underlying molecular mechanisms remain unclear, and the potential role of protein lactylation in this condition is unknown.We performed a comprehensive lactylome analysis using data-independent acquisition (DIA) mass spectrometry on paired sperm samples collected from patients with varicocele-associated asthenozoospermia before and after treatment. Differential lactylation analysis and bioinformatic enrichment analyses were conducted.Disrupted lactate metabolism was observed in asthenozoospermic sperm, with decreased intracellular L-lactate and elevated seminal plasma L-lactate. This was concomitant with a global reduction in protein lactylation, particularly in the sperm midpiece and tail. Lactylome profiling identified 2,699 lactylation sites on 1,216 proteins. Comparison of pre- and post-treatment samples revealed 133 differentially lactylated proteins, which were significantly enriched in pathways critical for sperm motility, including glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, microtubule-based movement, and flagellar assembly. Notably, lactylation abundance of key proteins (TEKT3, AKAP4, TUBA1A, AKAP3, TUBB4B) were significantly downregulated.This study presents an initial characterization of the protein lactylation landscape in human sperm, revealing​ its alteration in the context of varicocele-associated asthenozoospermia. The findings suggest that dysregulation of the lactate-lactylation axis correlates with impaired sperm motility, potentially through concurrent alterations in energy metabolism and flagellar structure. This correlation underscores specific lactylation events that warrant future mechanistic investigation.Copyright © 2026 Cao, Liu, Nie, Zhu, Liu, Zhou, Ma, Liu and Qin.
To evaluate the clinical characteristics, genomic landscape, and perinatal outcomes of fetal polydactyly using combined copy number variation sequencing (CNV-seq) and trio-exome sequencing (trio-ES).This retrospective cohort study included 44 prenatally confirmed fetuses with polydactyly. Cases were stratified into isolated (n = 21) and non-isolated (n = 23) groups. Polydactyly was further subclassified according to anatomical distribution, laterality, and duplication axis. Genetic etiology was investigated using CNV-seq and trio-ES, and pregnancy outcomes were ascertained through clinical follow-up.The overall genetic diagnostic yield was 36.4% (16/44), comprising aneuploidies (n = 6), one pathogenic CNV and monogenic disorders (n = 9). Causative variants were identified in NEK1, EVC2, BBS4, GLI3, TBX3, MYCN, and KIAA0825, with one incidental finding in PIK3CD. The diagnostic yield was significantly higher in the non-isolated group than in the isolated group (60.9% vs. 9.5%, p < 0.001). Specific anatomical features were associated with markedly increased genetic burden, including concurrent involvement of both upper and lower limbs (100%), bilateral presentation (64.7% vs. 18.5% for unilateral; p < 0.01), and postaxial polydactyly (PAP) compared with preaxial polydactyly (PPD) (65.0% vs. 12.5%; p < 0.001). Pregnancy outcomes differed substantially between phenotypic subgroups, with a live birth rate of 100% in isolated cases versus 34.8% in non-isolated cases (p < 0.001).Fetal polydactyly exhibits profound genetic and phenotypic heterogeneity. Although non-isolated, multi-limb, bilateral, and postaxial presentations are strong predictors of underlying chromosomal or monogenic disorders, apparently isolated cases still carry a clinically relevant genetic risk. The integration of detailed prenatal sonographic phenotyping with CNV-seq and trio-ES improves diagnostic precision, facilitates prognostic assessment, and informs prenatal counseling and long-term postnatal surveillance.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide, characterized by marked molecular heterogeneity, late-stage diagnosis, and limited therapeutic options. Emerging evidence highlights the interplay between cytoskeletal dynamics, epigenetic regulation, and oncogenic signaling pathways in hepatocarcinogenesis. Histone deacetylase 6 (HDAC6), a key regulator of cytoplasmic protein acetylation, modulates α-tubulin stability, while CTNNB1 (β-catenin) serves as a central effector of the Wnt signaling pathway. However, the existence and functional relevance of a coordinated HDAC6-TUBA1A-CTNNB1 regulatory axis in HCC remain insufficiently explored. We conducted a comprehensive integrative bioinformatic analysis using multiple publicly available datasets and platforms, including TCGA, GEO, GEPIA3, TNMplot, UALCAN, TIMER2.0, STRING, ENCORI, HPA, TargetScan, miRDB, CRISPRdb, GSCALite, and exoRBase. Gene expression, promoter methylation, survival associations, immune infiltration, regulatory RNA interactions, and therapeutic targetability were systematically evaluated. HDAC6 expression was significantly downregulated in HCC tissues, whereas TUBA1A and CTNNB1 were upregulated. Reduced HDAC6 expression was associated with poorer survival outcomes, while TUBA1A and CTNNB1 showed no significant prognostic value. Methylation analysis revealed gene-specific epigenetic alterations, including hypomethylation of CTNNB1 and differential methylation patterns in HDAC6 and TUBA1A. Immune infiltration analysis demonstrated that HDAC6 expression positively correlated with cytotoxic immune cell populations and negatively with immunosuppressive subsets. Regulatory network analyses identified lncRNA-miRNA-mRNA interactions, particularly involving SNHG1. Furthermore, in silico CRISPR targetability and extracellular vesicle (EV) transcript profiling suggested potential translational applicability of this axis. Our findings support a hypothesis of the existence of a dysregulated HDAC6-α-tubulin-β-catenin axis in HCC, linking cytoskeletal remodeling with oncogenic signaling and immune modulation. This axis may indicate a promising candidate for biomarker development and targeted therapeutic strategies, warranting further experimental validation.
Early diagnosis of sub-centimeter lung metastases is critical for timely decision-making and improved prognosis in patients with colorectal cancer. The diagnostic evaluation of indeterminate sub-centimeter lung nodules in colorectal cancer patients remains a crucial challenge. We aim to develop and validate a deep learning model for differentiating sub-centimeter lung metastases noninvasively.Our retrospective study included 1335 colorectal cancer patients with pretreated sub-centimeter lung metastases from 3 centers and 1335 benign lung nodules from one center. The primary cohort comprised 1194 patients, who were randomly assigned (8:2) to training and internal validation cohorts. Two external validation cohorts (EVC) consisted of 101 (EVC1) and 40 (EVC2) patients. The deep learning framework employed a fully automated VNet-based segmentation model for non-contrast computed tomography (CT) scans, integrated with a ResNet18 classifier for discriminating whether sub-centimeter lung nodules are benign or metastatic. Moreover, stepwise validation of subgroups was performed according to the maximum diameter of the nodules (10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, ≤ 4 mm).The automatic segmentation model achieved a dice coefficient of 0.825. In primary cohort, the accuracy by radiologists was 0.705. The AUC in deep learning model showed 0.953 (95%CI: 0.937-0.967), 0.906 (95%CI: 0.874-0.926), and 0.951 (95%CI: 0.938-0.965) in internal and two external validation cohorts. Furthermore, the stepwise validation demonstrated that the diagnostic performance remain stable as the nodule maximum diameter shrinks when size≥5 mm.The deep learning model can accurately and non-invasively distinguish between benign and metastatic sub-centimeter lung nodules in patients with colorectal cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42307204
ADAR1 is overexpressed in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and has been linked to poor prognosis, metastasis, and recurrence; however, its precise functions and underlying mechanisms, particularly in the context of metastasis, remain inadequately elucidated. This study seeks to elucidate the functions and underlying mechanisms of the most abundantly expressed isoform of ADAR1, ADAR1p110, in the setting of HCC metastasis. In this study, hepatocyte-specific ADAR1p110 knock-in mice and engineered HCC cell lines were utilized to investigate the function of ADAR1p110 in vivo and in vitro. Genome sequencing, transcriptome sequencing, microRNA sequencing, RNA immunoprecipitation qPCR (RIP-qPCR), and RNA pull-down assays were performed to elucidate the mechanism of ADAR1p110 in HCC. We demonstrated that ADAR1p110 overexpression promotes HCC metastasis by improving the motility of HCC cells. Mechanistically, ADAR1p110 overexpression increases TUBA1A expression, which plays a crucial role in regulating HCC cell motility. At the molecular level, ADAR1p110 suppresses miR-451a biogenesis by competitively binding to pri-miR-451a, thereby preventing its cleavage by the Drosha/DGCR8 complex. Furthermore, we confirmed that TUBA1A is a direct downstream target of miR-451a.© 2025 The Authors.
To determine the diagnostic yield of comprehensive genetic testing in patients with neuroimaging findings suggestive of lissencephaly spectrum disorders and to characterize novel pathogenic variants contributing to the genetic architecture of the spectrum.We reviewed clinical and genetic findings of 23 patients with neuroimaging features suspected of the lissencephaly spectrum who underwent genetic testing at the Children's Hospital Zagreb between 2016 and 2025. Clinical data were obtained from medical records and outpatient assessments by clinical geneticists. Genetic testing included chromosomal microarray, clinical exome sequencing, and whole-exome sequencing.A molecular diagnosis was established in 15 of 23 patients (65.2%). The pathogenic variants involved genes related to microtubule function (DCX, TUBA1A, TUBB2B, DYNC1H1) and variants in transcriptional and regulatory genes (FOXG1, WDR62). Four novel (likely) pathogenic variants were detected in well-established lissencephaly genes (DCX, TUBA1A, FOXG1, and WDR62). Although most cases involved single-gene variants, three patients had pathogenic copy number variants (1q43q44, 22q11.21, and Xq22.3q23 deletions).Exome sequencing when used as a first-line test, complemented by chromosomal microarray, provides a high diagnostic yield in patients with lissencephaly spectrum disorders. This integrated approach facilitates precise diagnosis, informs prognosis, enables targeted follow-up, and supports comprehensive genetic counselling.
To screen the potential core targets of (2S)-2'-Methoxykurarinone, a dimethyldihydroflavonoid derived from Sophora flavescens, against sepsis. Furthermore, we explore the in vivo pharmacological efficacy and potential mechanism of action through bioinformatics analysis, clinical sample verification, and an LPS-induced zebrafish sepsis model, aiming to provide experimental evidence for the development of this compound as a candidate lead compound against sepsis.Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) associated with sepsis were screened based on the GSE310929 sepsis transcriptome dataset, and weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) was performed to identify key sepsis-related modules. Multiple databases were used to predict compound targets. The intersection of DEGs, key module genes, and compound targets was obtained to screen core anti-sepsis genes. A protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was constructed, followed by Gene Ontology (GO) functional enrichment analysis. A total of 22 patients with sepsis and 10 healthy controls were enrolled for peripheral blood transcriptome sequencing. After batch correction by integrating multiple GEO datasets, 12 machine learning algorithms, SHAP interpretability analysis, and an artificial neural network (ANN) model were applied to screen and verify core diagnostic and prognostic genes. Single-cell transcriptome analysis was used to clarify the cellular localization of core gene expression in immune cells. Molecular docking was conducted to evaluate the binding affinity between the compound and core target proteins. An LPS-induced zebrafish sepsis model was further established, and the in vivo protective effects of the compound were evaluated in terms of embryonic survival rate, macrophage infiltration, intracellular ROS levels, and behavioral phenotypes.A total of 1617 sepsis-related DEGs were identified, and the greenyellow module was determined as the core co-expression module of sepsis. A total of 2124 target genes were predicted for the compound, and 36 potential core anti-sepsis targets were obtained from the intersection of the three gene sets, which were mainly enriched in immune-related processes including T cell activation, lymphocyte differentiation, and kinase activity regulation. After screening and validation via machine learning and ANN models, five core genes (PRKCQ, DYRK2, CD2, BACH2, AAK1) were identified. All five genes were significantly downregulated in the peripheral blood of sepsis patients, enabling efficient discrimination of sepsis, and their high expression was closely correlated with favorable patient prognosis. These core genes were predominantly localized to peripheral blood T cells and NK cells. Molecular docking confirmed that (2S)-2'-Methoxykurarinone exhibited favorable binding affinity with all five core target proteins. In vivo experiments demonstrated that (2S)-2'-Methoxykurarinone markedly improved the embryonic survival rate of septic zebrafish, inhibited excessive macrophage infiltration and abnormal ROS accumulation, and effectively ameliorated behavioral abnormalities in larval zebrafish.(2S)-2'-Methoxykurarinone exerts significant protective effects against sepsis in vivo by targeted regulation of the core genes PRKCQ, DYRK2, CD2, BACH2, and AAK1, mediating immune modulation and oxidative stress inhibition. It possesses promising potential for development as a natural candidate drug for sepsis treatment.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Post-genome-wide association study (GWAS) interpretation of osteoarthritis (OA) increasingly requires integration with single-cell biology because many risk loci likely act through sterile inflammatory remodeling, regulatory and inflammatory chondrocyte states, and tissue-stress biology rather than through large disease-stage expression shifts. We therefore asked whether a published Transformer-based post-GWAS prioritization strategy could refine a multi-gene chr12 susceptibility locus into a tractable TCTN2-centered effector-gene hypothesis.Using combined hip and knee osteoarthritis summary statistics (213,839 cases and 1,080,481 controls), we built a transfer-learning variant-prioritization layer that scored 20,651,210 variants with 21 engineered features, combined these with LDSC, positional MAGMA, fibroblast and muscle eMAGMA, six-tissue SMR, and fine-mapping, and then integrated the prioritized locus with a 56,000-cell chondrocyte atlas, independent OA cartilage expression resources, OA primary-tissue eQTL maps, and ATDC5 perturbation experiments.The prioritization model, used solely as a ranking layer, assigned a high prioritization score (≥ 0.99) to 17,150 variants, including the chr12 lead rs11611450 (prioritization score 0.999853), and highlighted 6,275 additional non-genome-wide-significant high-priority variants. Positional MAGMA nominated eight Bonferroni-significant genes, and eMAGMA nominated four genes in skeletal muscle and seven in fibroblasts. Within the rs11611450-linked five-gene cluster, TCTN2 showed the strongest cross-layer convergence, with SMR support in five of six tissues, fibroblast eMAGMA support (P = 8.34 × 10-10), hypertrophic-chondrocyte enrichment (z = 2.20), and localization to regulatory and inflammatory chondrocyte states. Independent validation showed modestly higher TCTN2 abundance in OA than in normal cartilage (delta = 0.45, P = 2.8 × 10-2), no high-grade-versus-low-grade cartilage shift (logFC = 0.053, FDR = 1.0), and strong OA-cartilage eQTL support in both low-grade and high-grade cartilage (q = 4.86 × 10-4 and 1.13 × 10-2). In ATDC5 cells, Tctn2 knockdown reduced expression to 0.21-fold of Mock and increased Col10a1, Mmp13, and Runx2 to 2.71-, 2.98-, and 3.53-fold, respectively, whereas overexpression and rescue reversed the same markers.This staged analysis nominates TCTN2 as a plausible candidate within an unresolved chr12 osteoarthritis locus; ATDC5 perturbation indicates that TCTN2 can modulate hypertrophic markers. Because the human-tissue association is directionally discordant, we present a locus-to-cell-state hypothesis rather than a complete genetics-to-mechanism chain, with cross-sectional shifts remaining modest and context-dependent.Copyright © 2026 Lu, Wang, Cao, Zhao, Yin and Zhang.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42507537
Neuroblastoma is an aggressive pediatric solid tumor that arises during embryonic development and contributes to 15% of cancer-related deaths in children. To date, neither experimental nor clinical trial data on an mRNA vaccine for neuroblastoma have been published, highlighting a significant gap in the anticancer vaccine development pipeline. This study presents the first mRNA vaccine for the treatment of neuroblastoma. We explored the self-assembling peptide RALA for delivering mRNA encoding glypican 2 (GPC2), a potent tumor-associated antigen in neuroblastoma. These data outline rigorous in vitro characterization of vaccine nanoparticle formulations, cellular uptake, and functionality. Immunization of mice with RALA/mGPC2 generated an antigen-specific cellular immune response against GPC2, with significant increases in IFN-γ and IL-2 expression by splenocytes and TNF-α expression by CD4+ and CD8+ T cells. Immunization delayed tumor development by 10-11 days and reduced tumor volume by 70% compared with unvaccinated controls in a subcutaneous murine model of MYCN-amplified neuroblastoma. This work demonstrates the therapeutic potential of the RALA/mGPC2 vaccine for treating neuroblastoma. Additionally, GPC2 is upregulated across multiple adult and pediatric cancer subtypes, establishing this vaccine as an attractive immunotherapy with far-reaching potential.© 2026 The Author(s).
Patients with non-muscle invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC) frequently experience recurrence and may progress to muscle-invasive disease. Although several common germline variants associated with bladder cancer risk have been identified, their prognostic value in NMIBC remains unclear. We performed an updated genome-wide association study (GWAS), incorporating additional cohorts and analysing multiple NMIBC recurrences, to identify germline genetic variants associated with recurrence and progression.We analysed eight cohorts (N = 5009) from the Netherlands, UK, Canada, and Spain. Cohort-specific GWAS were conducted using Cox regression for recurrence-free survival (RFS) and progression-free survival (PFS), including recurrent-event analysis and gene-based analyses. Analyses included chromosome X and were stratified by sex and Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) treatment. Previously reported variants for bladder cancer risk and prognosis were also evaluated.We observed 4237 recurrences, of which 2145 were first recurrences, and 742 cases of progression in stage and/or grade. No genome-wide significant associations were identified in the overall population, chromosome X, or sex-stratified analyses. In BCG-treated patients, two loci reached genome-wide significance for RFS, with the strongest signal for rs72744118, an intron variant in DISP-1 (HR = 0.43; 95% CI (0.32, 0.56), p = 5.8 × 10-10). Gene prioritization identified 101 candidate genes from SNP associations (p < 1 × 10-6) and colocalization analyses, of which 16 genes showed nominally significant association between gene expression and NMIBC outcome in UROMOL.In the largest GWAS of NMIBC prognosis to date, we prioritized a set of 16 genes. Future research should independently validate the prognostic and functional roles of identified genes.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The extracellular matrix plays critical roles in orchestrating cell communication and behaviors in response to various extracellular signals. It is a complex network composed of proteins and polysaccharides, whose individual and synergistic roles in cellular signaling, structural integrity, and tissue homeostasis remain active areas of investigation. Here, we find that in the developing cerebral cortex, distinct glypicans, which are heparan sulfate proteoglycans, present very precise and complementary expression patterns. More precisely, GPC4, which is expressed in cortical progenitors, promotes their proliferation and the generation of intermediate progenitors, whereas neuronal GPC2 acts as a brake on radial neuronal migration. The diverse biological functions of these proteoglycans are widely regarded as being intrinsically tied to their glycosaminoglycan (GAG) chains. Strikingly, we found that these effects are mediated only through glypican core proteins, rather than their heparan sulfate glycosylations. We found that the only difference between them is in their C-terminal disordered regions, which have a high density of charged residues. GPC2 is strongly basic, whereas GPC4 is acidic. Together, our findings highlight how specific proteoglycan protein cores are required to drive sequential cellular responses during cortical development in a glycosylation independent manner.
Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) efficacy depends on the presence of surface antigen. While antigen levels in leukemias can be measured in the blood or bone marrow, expression in solid tumors is often inferred from archival tissues or remains undetermined. Neuroblastoma (NB) is an aggressive pediatric solid tumor for which we have co-developed a CAR targeting glypican 2 (GPC2). Here, we developed a radiotheranostic platform comprising an antibody-based positron emission tomography (immunoPET) agent, [89Zr]Zr-DFO-mCT3 (89Zr-mCT3), for non-invasive detection of GPC2 and [225Ac]Ac-macropa-mCT3 (225Ac-mCT3) for alpha-particle therapy. In orthotopic NB models with variable GPC2 levels, immunoPET accurately detected tumors with positive versus low/negative GPC2 status, which correlated with in vivo response to CAR. As a therapeutic agent, 225Ac-mCT3 induced tumor regression in a dose-dependent manner, with the maximal effect at 2.96 kBq (80 nCi). Because 225Ac-mCT3 does not downregulate GPC2, we assessed GPC2-CAR therapy with 225Ac-mCT3 (1.48 kBq [40 nCi]) and showed improved survival in mice with GPC2med but not GPC2high tumors. These findings establish 89Zr-mCT3 as a novel radiotracer for GPC2 monitoring and a predictive tool for CAR responses. 225Ac-mCT3 enhances GPC2-CAR therapy in tumors with medium antigen levels, offering a rationale for clinical development in NB and other pediatric tumors.Published by Elsevier Inc.
Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy has shown limited efficacy in solid tumors, in part due to variability in autologous T cells derived from heavily pretreated patients with advanced disease. To address these constraints, we developed an off-the-shelf allogeneic CAR-T platform using CRISPR-Cas9-mediated genome editing in T cells from healthy donors to enable targeted CAR insertion at the TRAC locus with concurrent disruption of B2M. Using adeno-associated virus (AAV) delivery, we designed CAR-T cells targeting glypican-2 (GPC2) and glypican-3 (GPC3), emerging antigens expressed in pediatric and adult solid tumors. Genome-edited allogeneic CAR-T cells exhibited potent, antigen-specific cytotoxicity across multiple tumor models. GPC2-directed allogeneic CAR-T cells demonstrated enhanced or comparable activity relative to conventional lentiviral CAR-T cells in neuroblastoma models and mediated tumor regression with prolonged survival in preclinical models. Notably, repeated dosing augmented antitumor efficacy without evidence of toxicity, supporting multi-dose regimens for solid tumors. Similarly, GPC3-targeted allogeneic CAR-T cells based on a single-domain antibody showed robust activity against hepatocellular carcinoma cells in vitro and in vivo. These findings establish a scalable, genome-engineered allogeneic CAR-T strategy with strong therapeutic potential and support the clinical development of off-the-shelf cell therapies for pediatric and adult solid tumors.
Dermal papilla (DP) cells orchestrate hair follicle growth and cycling by secreting signaling molecules that stimulate follicular epithelial stem cells. The signal peptide CUB-EGF-like domain-containing protein 3 (SCUBE3) was recently identified as a potent anagen stimulator secreted by DP cells. Ageratum houstonianum ethanolic extract (AHE) and its active constituent agerarin exhibit anti-inflammatory properties; however, their effects on hair follicle growth remain unclear. This study aimed to investigate the effects of AHE and agerarin on SCUBE3 expression in primary human DP cells and to elucidate the underlying molecular signaling pathway. Cell viability was assessed by measuring cell confluency. Ex vivo hair growth was analyzed using organ cultures of human hair follicles. Gene and protein expression were determined using reverse transcription-PCR, immunoblot analysis, immunofluorescent staining, tyramide signal amplification-based multiplex immunohistochemistry, and gene promoter-reporter assay in primary human follicle DP cells. In a hair follicle organ culture model, both AHE and agerarin increased the population of the anagen phase and promoted hair shaft elongation. AHE and agerarin significantly upregulated SCUBE3 expression at both the mRNA and protein levels. Mechanistically, AHE and agerarin induced activator protein-1 (AP-1) expression by activating mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling pathways, thereby increasing SCUBE3 gene promoter activity. AHE and agerarin promoted hair follicle growth by upregulating SCUBE3 expression via activation of the MAPK-AP-1 signaling axis. In conclusion, AHE and agerarin may serve as potential therapeutic agents for the prevention and treatment of alopecia (hair loss).
This study aimed to identify trajectories of multimorbidity following acute myocardial infarction (AMI), using explainable temporal machine-learning methods, and assess their clinical, prognostic, and biological significance.Dynamic Time Warping k-means clustering was applied to post-AMI diagnostic sequences from 12 701 UK-Biobank participants. Latent Dirichlet Allocation characterised cluster themes. Multiclass classifiers (CatBoost, XGBoost, random forest, logistic regression) trained on pre-AMI diagnoses and demographics predicted trajectory membership, with SHAP interpretability. SMART scores and Cox models evaluated 5-year mortality; Phenotype-Wide Association (PheWAS) and Reactome pathway enrichment were used to identify associated biological mechanisms.Three trajectories of multimorbidity were identified: acute cardiorenal-respiratory with metabolic disease (ACUTE-CARD; 63.4%), cardiometabolic disease with arrhythmic-ischemic burden (CARDIOMIX; 13.5%), and smoking-related multisystem multimorbidity (SMO-CARD; 23.1%). XGBoost achieved the highest discrimination (AUC-ROC 0.906; 95% CI, 0.895-0.916), with CatBoost showing comparable performance (AUC-ROC 0.900; 95% CI, 0.889-0.910). SMO-CARD had the highest 5-year mortality (43.9%). The established SMART cardiovascular risk score remained the dominant predictor of mortality while the identified trajectories provided complementary prognostic signals; these associations were weaker after full adjustment for potential confounders with each profile displaying distinct genetic and pathway signatures.The SMART score outperformed in capturing mortality risk, whereas the trajectories complement it by revealing nuanced clustering of risk factors across organ systems and in identifying trajectory-specific intervention priorities.Explainable temporal modeling of EHR data reveals clinically interpretable, biologically grounded multimorbidity trajectories after AMI that complement established risk scores and provide a reproducible approach to mechanistic phenotyping and precision care.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the American Medical Informatics Association.
This study examines the psychological mechanisms through which belief in state war propaganda relates to combat motivation among Russian soldiers during the war in Ukraine. Using a cross-sectional survey of 1,060 Russian prisoners of war, we examined the relationship between belief in official propaganda narratives and two key outcomes: voluntary surrender and self-reported intentions to re-enlist. Results revealed that stronger belief in propaganda was associated with a lower likelihood of surrendering voluntarily and higher intentions to re-enlist upon release. Mediation analyses identified perceived legitimacy of the "Special Military Operation" (SMO) as the primary psychological pathway, such that only perceived legitimacy statistically accounted for the association between propaganda beliefs and both outcomes in our models. Contrary to expectations, identity fusion with the "Russian World" ideology and dehumanization of Ukrainians did not exhibit significant relationships in the mediation models once covariates were accounted for. These findings suggest that propaganda's association with combat motivation may primarily be explained by soldiers' perceptions of the war's legitimacy rather than by identity-based or dehumanizing beliefs. The study offers empirical insights on propaganda's link to combat motivation via legitimacy, informing narrative interventions in deradicalization and conflict psychology.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42552286 is a review article
Protein biomarkers are increasingly recognized as indicators of metabolic status, immune response, and reproductive performance in cattle. However, comparative data among different breeds commonly raised in Indonesia remain limited.This study aimed to compare the specific proteins in follicular fluid (FF) of Bali and Brahman cows.Samples from FF (n = 20 pairs of ovarium) were analyzed for identification of specific proteins using LC-HRMS analysis.Proteomic analysis revealed distinct breed-specific FF profiles, with 16 proteins uniquely identified in Bali cattle and 23 proteins in Brahman. Bali FF was enriched with proteins associated with protease inhibition, coagulation regulation, extracellular matrix remodeling, and cytoskeletal dynamics, including CORO1C, ZER1, YARS1, and L3MBTL3. In contrast, Brahman FF showed enrichment of proteins involved in lipid oxidation, one-carbon metabolism, and peroxisomal activity, notably ACOX2, BHMT, and KIAA0586.Here, we present the proteomic characterization of FF from Bali and Brahman cattle, where several bioactive proteins are candidate proteins potentially associated with reproductive processes. These findings highlight the potential of protein biomarkers in guiding cattle breeding and management strategies in tropical regions.Copyright © 2026 Sri Gustina et al. Veterinary Medicine International published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Exercise intolerance, reflected by reduced peak oxygen uptake (V˙O2peak), is a hallmark feature of heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF). Impairments along the oxygen cascade, including central hemodynamics, ventilatory efficiency, and peripheral factors, have been described, but their relative contributions remain incompletely defined.This cross-sectional analysis included baseline data from the HIT-HF trial. V˙O2peak and ventilatory efficiency were assessed by cardiopulmonary exercise testing. Stroke volume was measured using impedance cardiography, heart rate via electrocardiography, total hemoglobin mass (tHbmass) by carbon monoxide rebreathing, muscle oxygen saturation (SmO2) by near-infrared spectroscopy, and leg power by countermovement jump testing. Associations with relative and absolute V˙O2peak were examined using multivariable linear regression adjusted for age, sex, and body fat mass. Missing data were handled by multiple imputations.Of 46 patients, 43 were included in the final analysis [mean age: 73 (10) years, BMI: 25.6 (4.3) kg/m2, 65% female]. In multivariable models, leg power showed the strongest positive association with relative V˙O2peak (β = 0.35, 95% CI: -0.20 to 0.89), whereas leg fat-free mass showed the strongest association with absolute V˙O2peak (β = 0.57, 95% CI: 0.21-0.92). Stroke volume and heart rate showed smaller associations, whereas SmO2, tHbmass, and ventilatory efficiency showed trivial associations (β between -0.1 and 0.1).In HFpEF, peripheral muscle function was more strongly associated with exercise capacity than central hemodynamics or ventilatory efficiency.© 2026 Schoch, Kröpfl, Gasser, Infanger, Hanssen, Wick, Prechtl, Dieterle and Schmidt-Trucksäss.
Continuous hypoxic treadmill training increases the physiological load of aerobic exercise, but it remains unclear whether baseline aerobic fitness influences short-term adaptation. This study compared the responses of healthy men with lower and higher initial aerobic fitness to four weeks of continuous treadmill training performed in normobaric hypoxia equivalent to a simulated altitude of 2500 m.Twenty-two healthy adult men were classified into lower- group (LF) and higher-fitness groups (HF) according to baseline treadmill graded exercise test performance. All participants completed the same four-week hypoxic treadmill training program and the same pre- and post-intervention tests, including a graded treadmill test with cardiorespiratory and oxygenation monitoring and a Yo-Yo Intermittent Recovery Test Level 1 (Yo-Yo IR1).Both groups improved after training, but the changes were consistently larger in the LF group. Compared with the HF group, the LF group showed larger percentage improvements in relative VO 2peak (+8.5% vs. +0.7%), peak treadmill speed (+9.9% vs. +1.6%), time to exhaustion (+10.4% vs. +2.3%), VT2 speed (+14.0% vs. +2.0%), percentage of VO 2peak at VT2 (+7.5% vs. +1.2%), and Yo-Yo IR1 distance (+23.7% vs. +4.2%). Selected oxygenation variables at VT2 and during early recovery changed in the same direction, whereas minimum SpO2 and minimum SmO2 changed little.Four weeks of continuous hypoxic treadmill training were associated greater improvements in aerobic and threshold-related outcomes in men with lower initial aerobic fitness. The oxygenation outcomes provide descriptive physiological information only and should not be interpreted as evidence of hematological adaptation.Copyright © 2026 Zhou, Zhu, Zhang and Zhou.
Signaling receptors can exit cilia either by retrieval back into the cell or by secretion in extracellular vesicles (EVs), a process known as ectocytosis. The mechanisms that govern ectocytosis remain poorly understood. Here, we leverage quantitative proteomic profiling to identify the Hedgehog signaling receptor Smoothened (SMO) as a major cargo of cilia-derived EVs. Surprisingly, ligands that promote ciliary accumulation of SMO strongly suppressed its packaging into EVs, indicating that ectocytosis selectively packages specific conformational states of SMO. We further find that SMO packaged into EVs is extensively modified with K63linked ubiquitin chains. Preventing SMO ubiquitination or selectively removing K63-linked ubiquitin chains from SMO markedly reduced its secretion into EVs and caused SMO accumulation within cilia. Together, these results identify K63-linked ubiquitin chains as a sorting signal for ciliary ectocytosis and indicate that ubiquitin-dependent packaging of inactive SMO contributes to the dynamic redistribution of SMO during Hedgehog signaling.
High-performance sensorless operation in multiphase electric drives requires speed estimation techniques capable of providing fast dynamic response, reduced oscillatory behavior, and low implementation complexity. In this context, a sliding-mode observer (SMO) based on an exponential reaching law (ERL) is proposed for rotor speed estimation in asymmetrical six-phase induction machines operating under indirect rotor field-oriented control. Unlike conventional SMO implementations, the proposed approach avoids auxiliary low-pass filtering (LPF) stages by employing an ERL-based adaptive gain mechanism, thereby preventing the phase delay and bandwidth reduction commonly associated with LPF-based observers. As a result, the proposed observer preserves fast transient dynamics, attenuates chattering near the sliding surface, and improves the smoothness of the estimated signals. The proposed technique is particularly suitable for multiphase drive applications, where sensorless operation reduces hardware complexity and improves system reliability by eliminating mechanical speed sensors and associated wiring. A Lyapunov-based stability analysis is presented to demonstrate the convergence properties of the observer and discuss the influence of the ERL parameters on the estimation dynamics. Simulation and experimental results obtained on a real-time test bench validate the digital implementation of the proposed SMO + ERL, demonstrating improved transient tracking, smoother estimated signals, stable low-speed operation, satisfactory speed reversal performance, and effective operation under loaded conditions.
Background and Objectives: Conventional supramalleolar osteotomy (SMO) often involves a concomitant fibular osteotomy (FO), which carries risks, such as nonunion and nerve injury. We evaluated the clinical and radiological outcomes of a fibula-preserving SMO (FP-SMO) combined with arthroscopic modified Broström operation (MBO) in patients with medial compartment varus ankle osteoarthritis and chronic lateral ankle instability. Materials and Methods: We retrospectively reviewed 22 patients who underwent medial opening wedge FP-SMO and arthroscopic MBO between 2014 and 2019. Clinical outcomes were assessed using the Visual Analog Scale (VAS), American Orthopaedic Foot and Ankle Society (AOFAS) Ankle-Hindfoot score, and Foot and Ankle Outcome Score (FAOS). Radiological evaluation included the anterior drawer test (ADT), talar tilt angle, tibiotalar surface (TTS) angle, medial distal tibial angle (MDTA), tibial lateral surface (TLS) angle, Takakura stage, and International Cartilage Regeneration and Joint Preservation Society (ICRS) grade assessed during second-look arthroscopy. Results: At a mean follow-up of 17.22 months, the mean VAS, AOFAS, and FAOS scores improved significantly (p < 0.001). Radiologically, the mean ADT decreased from 5.98 mm to 4.70 mm (p = 0.015), and the mean talar tilt angle decreased from 9.85° to 6.09° (p < 0.001). The mean TTS angle increased from 80.46° to 84.86° (p = 0.021), and the mean MDTA increased from 85.03° to 91.26° (p < 0.001). The TLS angle showed no significant change from 81.17° to 81.54° (p = 0.238). Takakura stage and ICRS grade improved or remained stable in all patients. No major complications, including nonunion, were observed. Conclusions: FP-SMO combined with arthroscopic MBO demonstrated favorable short-term clinical and radiological outcomes in selected patients with medial compartment varus ankle osteoarthritis and chronic lateral ankle instability. This combined approach may be a feasible joint-preserving option that addresses coronal malalignment and lateral ankle instability without requiring FO; however, longer-term comparative studies are needed to confirm its durability and clinical utility.
Homeodomain-interacting protein kinase 2 (HIPK2) can function either as a tumour suppressor or promoter in cancer. Understanding key features of HIPK2 context dependent effects in cancer could lead to novel therapeutic strategies. Our investigation of HIPK2 expression in gastric cancer (GC) showed it to be down regulated.HIPK2 manifested context dependent anti- and pro-tumorigenic effects as demonstrated in GC cell lines SNU638 and NUGC-3 (β-Cateninlow, CD44Hi) and AGS (β-CateninHi, CD44low). The dualistic effects could be plausible due to HIPK2's differential impacts on the Akt-mTOR pathway. The HIPK2 inhibitor TBID further supported this context-dependent regulation of mTOR markers. Gene expression combined with protein-protein interactions analysis was used to identify the HIPK2-NLK-MAPK11 axis linked by their interaction with transcription factor MYB in GC. Validation of the axis was shown by increased NLK and MAPK11 expression in GC cell lines concordant with lower HIPK2 expression. Similarly, HIPK2 ectopically expressing cells showed lower levels of NLK and MAPK11 expression. Combinatorial targeting of HIPK2-NLK/MAPK11 axis with (HIPK2i + NLKi) or (HIPK2i + MAPK11i) resulted in a synergistic effect suppressing GC cell proliferation and mTOR markers. Targeting HIPK2 in combination with NLK or MAPK11 can be a promising strategy to overcome context dependent effects of HIPK2.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Japan Human Cell Society.
Occult hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection (OBI) has the same transmission routes and clinical outcomes as overt HBV infection. However, due to the lack of reliable biomarkers, its occurrence and potential clinical harm are often overlooked. We previously found that the prevalence of OBI increases with age among individuals vaccinated at birth, but the transcriptome characteristics of their immune cells remain unknown. In this study, fifteen subjects born between 1987 and 1993 and vaccinated perinatally were recruited. They were divided into OBI, inactive chronic HBsAg carriers (ICHC) and healthy control groups. Blood samples were drawn from each subject for scRNA-seq and subsequent validation studies. The results showed that eleven cell types and nine T-cell subsets were identified, with no significant differences in the proportions of T-cell subsets among the three groups. HIPK2 expression in T cells was downregulated 1.42-fold in the OBI group versus healthy controls (p = 2.01 × 10-69) and upregulated 1.34-fold versus the ICHC infection group (p = 9.95 × 10-61). Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in immune-related pathways were enriched in the OBI group. TP53 plays a central role in HIPK2 function in the context of OBI. Serum HIPK2 levels were significantly lower in the OBI group than in the healthy controls (p = 0.047), but they were also significantly lower than in the ICHC infection group. In conclusion, downregulated HIPK2 expression in T cells is associated with OBI. The functional role of HIPK2 in OBI, including its role as a biomarker to distinguish OBI from a healthy status, warrants further investigation.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42500827 is a review article
Diabetic kidney disease (DKD) is a common and challenging microvascular complication of diabetes. TGF-β1-mediated epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in renal tubular epithelial cells, characterized by loss of epithelial polarity and intercellular adhesion alongside acquisition of a mesenchymal phenotype, is widely recognized as a key driver of DKD. Here, we reveal that renal interstitial fibrosis (RIF) and EMT constitute important pathological foundations for DKD progression, validated in both clinical DKD patients and DKD mouse models. Concurrently, we confirm the elevated expression of homoeotic domain-interacting protein kinase 2 (HIPK2) in DKD, though its regulatory role in EMT remains unclear. We further established a DKD-EMT cellular model by inducing human renal tubular epithelial cells (HK-2) with TGF-β1 combined with high glucose stimulation. Here, we found that inhibiting HIPK2 expression significantly delayed EMT progression and improved RIF in DKD. Thus, our study provides a novel therapeutic strategy for DKD progression and demonstrates that HIPK2 serves as a potential therapeutic target for DKD-EMT.
HIPK2 is a nuclear serine/threonine kinase that regulates development and cellular stress responses including DNA damage response. Previously we have shown that HDAC6 increases HIPK2 protein stability via UBP domain rather than its deacetylase activity. Here, we identify USP2 as a deubiquitinase that stabilizes HIPK2 by complexing to HDAC6 UBP. Overexpression of USP2 increased while its knockdown or chemical inhibition decreased the protein level of HIPK2. USP2 decreased the polyubiquitination of HIPK2, suggesting that USP2 is a HIPK2 deubiquitinase. We found evidence that HDAC6, USP2 and HIPK2 form complex in cells. Importantly, USP2 knockdown or chemical inhibition suppressed the HDAC6-mediated accumulation of HIPK2 protein. This indicates that the HDAC6-mediated HIPK2 regulation is USP2-dependent. Functionally, upregulation of HIPK2 by USP2 promoted the TNFα-induced cell death. Overall, our data suggest that USP2 increases HIPK2 protein stability and enhances its proapoptotic function.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Aerobic glycolysis is increasingly recognized as a pathogenic driver in diabetic kidney disease (DKD). However, the epigenetic role of its end product, lactate, remains largely undefined. Spatial transcriptomics analysis revealed active glycolysis in tubular epithelial cells. The participation of histone lactylation in DKD was confirmed through inhibition of histone lactylation by glycolysis inhibitors or lactate in vivo. The potential target genes of H4K12 lactylation (H4K12la) were screened by CUT&Tag analyses. The candidate target genes were validated through ChIP‑qPCR, RT‑qPCR and western blot analyses. The present study found that the expression of 6‑phosphofructo‑2‑kinase/fructose‑2,6‑biphosphatase 3 (PFKFB3), a pivotal glycolytic regulator, was markedly upregulated in tubular epithelial cells derived from patients with DKD and from the corresponding mouse models. Inhibition of the expression of PFKFB3 mitigated the kidney fibrotic process and alleviated renal function in a DKD mouse model. Conversely, upregulation of PFKFB3 expression aggravated renal fibrogenesis and promoted the deterioration of renal pathology. Moreover, it was demonstrated that the reduction in the levels of lactate levels markedly alleviated renal fibrosis in DKD. With regard to its mechanism of action, lactate was generated via PFKFB3‑driven glycolytic reprogramming and selectively enhanced H4K12 lactylation at the homeodomain‑interacting protein kinase 2 (HIPK2) promoter, thereby activating its transcription and driving renal fibrotic progression. These findings indicated that PFKFB3 in renal tubules upregulates HIPK2 expression via facilitating H4K12la‑dependent gene transcription. Therefore, intervention approaches targeting PFKFB3‑triggered HIPK2 activation in tubular cells may offer a novel therapeutic strategy for DKD.
Eukaryotic flagella are evolutionarily conserved organelles that mediate motility, sensory transduction, and environmental adaptation, yet their presence and gene composition vary considerably across algal lineages. Dinoflagellates, a lineage within the superphylum Alveolata, derived from secondary endosymbiosis, exhibit larger and more reorganized genomes than their red-algal relatives and possess a distinctive biflagellate morphology, making them an informative group for studying flagellar evolution. To systematically investigate flagellar gene distribution in this lineage, we performed comparative genomic analyses on 102 genomes spanning four algal groups-Chlorophyta, Rhodophyta, Alveolata (represented by dinoflagellates), and Bacillariophyta. Genomes were selected based on assembly completeness, retaining only those with BUSCO completeness > 50% to balance data quality with taxonomic coverage. Orthologous groups were identified using a reciprocal best BLAST v2.11.0(rBH) strategy, from which we curated 94 conserved flagellar gene families. Quantitative comparisons revealed significant lineage-specific expansions of flagellar gene families within dinoflagellates, including WDR35, TTLL5, and STK36, with fold enrichment values ranging from 3.6 to 5.8 (adjusted p < 0.01). Phylogenetic analyses further identified two axonemal components, BBS9 and C1A-18, as candidates acquired via horizontal gene transfer, with bootstrap support exceeding 80% and Alien Index values > 45. Collectively, these phylogenomic analyses suggest that lineage-specific expansion and horizontal gene transfer have jointly contributed to the evolution of flagellar systems in dinoflagellates, providing a framework for future functional studies.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42447214
Coronary vessel formation is essential for cardiac growth and regeneration, yet the extracellular mechanisms coordinating coronary vascular remodeling remain incompletely understood. Scube2 (signal peptide-CUB [complement C1r/C1s, Uegf, Bmp1]-EGF domain-containing protein 2) has been implicated in developmental vascular signaling, but its role in coronary vessel formation and cardiac regeneration has not been established.We investigated Scube2 function using zebrafish genetic loss-of-function mutants, inducible global and epicardial-specific dominant-negative models, cryoinjury-induced cardiac regeneration, confocal and ultrastructural imaging, bulk RNA sequencing, and biochemical analyses to examine signaling mechanisms.Scube2 was expressed in the epicardium under homeostatic conditions and was rapidly induced in epicardial-derived cells following cardiac injury. Loss of Scube2 impaired developmental coronary vessel formation and caused myocardial ultrastructural abnormalities. Following injury, Scube2 deficiency resulted in defective revascularization, reduced mural cell association, decreased endothelial and cardiomyocyte proliferation, persistent fibrosis, and impaired cardiac regeneration. Temporal and epicardial-specific inhibition of Scube2 recapitulated these regenerative defects. Transcriptomic analyses identified dysregulation of VEGF (vascular endothelial growth factor) and PDGF (platelet-derived growth factor) signaling pathways, accompanied by reduced endothelial proliferation and prolonged inflammatory responses. Mechanistically, SCUBE2 interacted with PDGF-B (PDGF subunit B) and PDGFRβ (PDGF receptor β) and enhanced PDGFRβ activation, supporting a role in endothelial-mural cell communication during vascular remodeling.Scube2 is a critical regulator of coronary vessel formation and regenerative revascularization in zebrafish. By promoting PDGF-dependent endothelial-mural cell interactions, Scube2 coordinates vascular remodeling that supports myocardial regeneration. These findings identify Scube2 as a previously unrecognized regulator of coronary vascularization and suggest extracellular modulation of PDGF signaling as a potential therapeutic strategy to enhance cardiac repair after ischemic injury.
Advanced breast cancer is a leading cause of cancer-associated death in women. It is critical to find biomarkers to identify patients who are more prone to progress to advanced disease and would be better served with more aggressive treatments. Hormone receptor-positive breast cancers make up about 70% of all breast cancers. The analysis of gene amplification and expression has been utilized to classify breast tumors into medically useful risk groups. In the present study, we selected five genes (MMP11, CTSV, CD68, SCUBE2, and MYBL2) that are important in tumor invasion and metastasis to identify a pattern associated with well-established pathology markers indicative of poor prognosis in early-stage hormone receptor-positive breast cancers.Two hundred and thirty-nine early-stage hormone receptor-positive breast cancer patients were analyzed. Patients were required to have FFPE (formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded) samples from the primary tumor. Expression of the selected genes was determined using TaqMan expression assays. MYBL2 amplification was examined using fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH).Expression of CTSV was significantly associated with increasing tumor size (p = 0.001) and lymph node involvement (p = 0.016). In multivariate analysis, CTSV expression remained significantly associated with lymph node involvement (p = 0.049). Expression of MYBL2 was associated with higher tumor grade (p = 0.001). We identified MYBL2 amplification in one sample. Expression of SCUBE2 was inversely associated with tumor grade (p = 0.04). Receiver-operator characteristic (ROC) analysis was used to predict lymph node involvement using clinicopathologic features (age at diagnosis, tumor size, and histologic grade), and the five gene expression markers, which resulted in AUC = 0.83.We found a significant association between CTSV, MYBL2, and SCUBE2 expression and pathological variables of poor prognosis. Our study reveals that analysis of the expression of these genes may help identify early-stage hormone receptor-positive breast tumors that are more likely to metastasize and need more intense treatment modalities.© 2026 The Author(s). Health Science Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Through long-term natural and artificial selection, yaks (Bos grunniens) have evolved diverse coat colors with important aesthetic and economic value. Previous studies indicate that these traits may also serve as important indicators of adaptation to cold, high-altitude environments. However, the genetic mechanisms underlying these traits remain unclear.Here, we systematically analyzed the genetic architecture of coat color in 511 yaks by combining red-green-blue (RGB)-based quantitative phenotyping with the QingXin 1st 30 K single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) genotyping chip. RGB components were highly correlated within body regions, but moderately correlated between the head and rump, indicating region-specific pigmentation patterns. Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of head and rump coat color using five models (general linear model (GLM), mixed linear model (MLM), multiple loci mixed model (MLMM), fixed and random model circulating probability unification (FarmCPU), and Bayesian information and linkage disequilibrium (LD) iteratively nested keyway (BLINK)), together with genotype-by-environment interaction (GbyE) analyses revealed region-specific genetic regulation. Candidate genes associated with yak coat color included KIT and DISP3. KIT was detected in both GWAS and GbyE analyses, underscoring its potential key role in coat color. Heritability (h2) was higher for the head coat color (42.8%) than for the rump (18.0%). In addition, a high-LD block was detected near KIT, further supporting its role as a major candidate gene. Genomic selection (GS) using gBLUP and Bayesian generalized linear regression (BGLR) showed moderate-to-high accuracy, with higher accuracy under random than settings than aligned settings. Genomic-estimated breeding values (gEBVs) were strongly correlated between the head and rump regions, indicating consistent genetic regulation across body regions.Our study demonstrated that RGB-based phenotyping combined with GWAS and GbyE analyses could identify loci associated with coat color and potential GbyE interactions. GS results indicate that coat color traits are heritable and may inform precise breeding strategies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42346201 is a review article
Intraflagellar transport (IFT) is a fundamental process driving ciliogenesis in most eukaryotic organisms. IFT172, the largest protein of the IFT complex, plays a crucial role in cilium formation, and several disease-causing IFT172 variants have been identified in ciliopathy patients. While IFT172 is tethered to the IFT-B complex via its N-terminal domains, the function of its C-terminal domains has remained elusive. Here, using both human and Chlamydomonas reinhardtii IFT172, we reveal that the C-terminal part of IFT172 interacts with IFT-A complex subunits, providing a molecular basis for the role of IFT172 in bridging IFT-A and IFT-B complexes. We determine the crystal structure of the C-terminal part of IFT172, uncovering a conserved U-box-like domain often found in E3 ubiquitin ligases. This domain exhibits ubiquitin-binding properties, and IFT172 undergoes ubiquitin conjugation in vitro, an activity that is reduced in the C1727R patient ciliopathy variant. We use CRISPR-engineered RPE-1 cells to demonstrate that the U-box-like domain is essential for IFT172 protein stability and proper cilium formation. Notably, RPE-1 cells with heterozygous deletion of the U-box domain show altered TGF-β signaling responses, particularly in SMAD2 phosphorylation levels and AKT activation. Our findings suggest that IFT172, beyond its structural role in bridging IFT-A and IFT-B complexes within IFT trains, harbors a conserved U-box-like domain with potential involvement in ciliary ubiquitination processes and signaling, providing new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying IFT172-related ciliopathies.© 2025, Zacharia et al.
Nephronophthisis is an autosomal recessive ciliopathy and a major genetic cause of end-stage kidney disease in children and young adults. Although next-generation sequencing panels have improved diagnostic yield, some patients remain genetically unresolved, partly due to deep intronic variants that disrupt pre-mRNA splicing and are not captured by exon-focused approaches. We report a 13-year-old boy who presented with advanced kidney dysfunction, small renal cysts, and kidney histopathology consistent with nephronophthisis. Targeted gene panel sequencing failed to identify causative pathogenic variants beyond a missense variant of uncertain significance. Whole-genome sequencing subsequently revealed compound heterozygous variants in IFT172 (NM_015662.3): a missense variant (c.4696C > T, p.Arg1566Cys) and a deep intronic variant (c.4915-94A > G). In silico analysis predicted activation of cryptic splice sites leading to inclusion of an 86-bp pseudoexon, which was confirmed by a minigene splicing assay. These findings established a molecular diagnosis of IFT172-related nephronophthisis. To our knowledge, this is the first report demonstrating pseudoexon inclusion in IFT172, thereby expanding its mutational spectrum. Our case underscores the importance of evaluating deep intronic regions using whole-genome sequencing and functional validation in genetically unresolved nephronophthisis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Japanese Society of Nephrology.
In vertebrates, two genes, Musashi1 (Msi1) and Musashi2 (Msi2), encode for highly similar Musashi protein paralogs. The Musashi proteins are known to bind to 3'-UTRs and control translation. In photoreceptor cells, the Musashi proteins promote the inclusion of photoreceptor-specific alternative exons by binding to the proximal downstream of their introns. While the Musashi proteins are expressed in various cell types, their role in regulating splicing appears to be confined to photoreceptor cells, where the two proteins have exceptionally high expression levels. To test if the photoreceptor-specific role of MSI1 and MSI2 in splicing is due to their expression levels in photoreceptor cells, we generated combined Msi1 and Msi2 knockouts that progressively reduced the number of Musashi alleles in photoreceptor cells. We analyzed the splicing of photoreceptor-specific exons in the Cc2d2a, Cep290, Prom1, and Ttc8 genes and the function of photoreceptor cells in the knockouts. We found that a single allele from either Msi1 or Msi2 is sufficient to maintain photoreceptor function and support high inclusion levels of the photoreceptor-specific exons.Copyright: © 2026 Jeong, Stoilov. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42083041 is a review article
Neuro-ichthyosis is a rare group of disorders characterized by the coexistence of neurological dysfunction and ichthyotic skin changes. We report a 5-year-old girl born to consanguineous parents who presented with pharmacoresistant epilepsy, severe developmental delay, microcephaly, and ichthyosis. Family history revealed similarly affected siblings, suggesting a hereditary basis. Despite multiple antiepileptic drugs, seizures remained uncontrolled. Whole exome sequencing identified a homozygous CC2D2A variant consistent with Joubert syndrome type 9, along with heterozygous variants in ABCA12 and DOCK6, and a 14q31.3-q32.11 deletion. This unique combination represents an unprecedented multilocus pathogenic mechanism contributing to the complex neurocutaneous phenotype. The findings expand the known genotypic and phenotypic spectrum of neuro-ichthyosis and highlight the importance of early whole exome sequencing for accurate diagnosis, genetic counseling, and management of patients with severe neurocutaneous disorders, especially in consanguineous populations where multilocus pathogenicity may underlie atypical or severe presentations.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical Case Reports published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) has a high heritability and frequently co-occurs with type 2 diabetes (T2D), indicating shared genetic mechanisms. Firstly, we employed RHOGE to ascertain the genetic correlation and putative causal directions between GDM and T2D. Subsequently, the Genotype-Tissue Expression Project v8 eQTls files and the FinnGen R11 dataset were employed to conduct cross-tissue transcriptome association studies, Functional Summary-based Imputation in single tissues, and Gene Analysis combined with Multimarker Analysis of Genomic Annotation for GDM and T2D, respectively. A total of 5 genes were identified as GDM susceptibility and 97 genes linked to T2D susceptibility. Of these, four genes (COBLL1, NRBP1, IFT172 and TRIM54) were identified as being shared. Mendelian randomization and colocalization analyses revealed the causal associations of them with GDM and T2D in distinct tissues. Subsequent analyses indicated COBLL1 may influence GDM and T2D risk by regulation of actin filament polymerization and interactions with chemical responses. NRBP1 may confer protective effects against diabetes through regulation of insulin secretion, while IFT172 and TRIM54 may play a role in energy balance signaling and metabolism of skeletal muscle, respectively. Our study provides insight into the shared genetic mechanism between GDM and T2D and identifies potential targets for pharmacological intervention.© 2026. The Author(s).
In vertebrates, two genes, Musashi1 (Msi1) and Musashi2 (Msi2), encode for highly similar Musashi protein paralogs. The Musashi proteins are known to bind to 3'-UTRs and control translation. In photoreceptor cells, the Musashi proteins promote the inclusion of photoreceptor-specific alternative exons by binding to the proximal downstream of their introns. While the Musashi proteins are expressed in various cell types, their role in regulating splicing appears to be confined to photoreceptor cells, where the two proteins have exceptionally high expression levels. To test if the photoreceptor-specific role of MSI1 and MSI2 in splicing is due to their expression levels in photoreceptor cells, we generated combined Msi1 and Msi2 knockouts that progressively reduced the number of Musashi alleles in photoreceptor cells. We analyzed the splicing of photoreceptor-specific exons in the Cc2d2a, Cep290, Prom1, and Ttc8 genes and the function of photoreceptor cells in the knockouts. We found that a single allele from either Msi1 or Msi2 is sufficient to maintain photoreceptor function and support high inclusion levels of the photoreceptor-specific exons.
Keratoconus (KC) is a multifactorial corneal degenerative disorder characterized by reduced extracellular matrix (ECM) and cellular content. This study investigates the role and mechanism of cellular communication network factor 1 (CCN1) in KC progression.The expression of CCN1 was first examined in clinical samples using Western blot and immunofluorescence staining. A CCN1 overexpression cell model (OE CCN1) was then established by transfecting primary corneal stromal cells with CCN1 OE plasmids, and RNA sequencing was performed to identify downstream molecular pathways regulated by CCN1. Subsequently, multiple methodologies, including SA‑β‑Gal staining, enzyme‑linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), qRT‑PCR, Western blot, immunofluorescence staining, flow cytometry, and transmission electron microscopy (TEM), were used to systematically evaluate the role of CCN1 in KC samples and corneal stromal cells.CCN1 expression was significantly elevated in patients with KC. CCN1 OE markedly upregulated senescence and inflammatory pathways, increased expression of γH2AX, p16, p21, p53, and senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP) molecules. Additionally, CCN1 led to reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation, G2/M phase cell cycle arrest, enhanced apoptosis, lysosomal dysfunction, and matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) OE, collectively contributing to ECM remodeling.CCN1 plays a critical role in promoting corneal degeneration in KC and may serve as a potential therapeutic target to halt or slow disease progression.
The 13th International Workshop on the CCN Family of Genes, held in Nice as part of the inaugural ARBIOCOM World Conference, brought together investigators with diverse research backgrounds, disciplines, and expertise. Building on the long-standing mission of the International CCN Society and the expanding ARBIOCOM initiative, the meeting highlighted the growing importance of interdisciplinary exchange in accelerating discovery in normal and pathological signaling networks. Scientific sessions featured presentations by renowned speakers and early-career investigators alike, creating a highly collaborative environment that fostered discussion of emerging concepts and translational opportunities. Among the major themes, this joint conference-meeting highlighted "hot" research topics such as the nuclear and extracellular roles of CCN proteins in regulating gene expression, tissue development and remodeling, stem cell differentiation and therapies, and disease initiation and progression. Presentations on skeletal biology emphasized how extracellular matrix proteins and matricellular factors shape bone, cartilage, and connective tissue development and pathology, whereas vascular sessions revealed new mechanistic links between extracellular cues, endothelial remodeling, macrophage-driven vessel regression and vascular smooth muscle homeostasis. Other talks extended the relevance of new signaling molecules in intestinal regeneration, hepatic inflammation, metabolic control, and cancer progression, illustrating the broad biological reach of these pathways. The meeting also emphasized the value of integrating new model systems, advanced single-cell approaches, and functional in vivo studies to uncover mechanisms that were previously unknown. Collectively, the scientific sessions and discussions identified and filled key knowledge gaps and generated new hypotheses with strong potential for future discoveries. By connecting established expertise with complementary scientific perspectives, this meeting provided a fertile platform for cross-pollination of ideas and highlighted several avenues for future research aimed at developing novel diagnostic and therapeutic strategies and tools.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cell Communication and Signaling published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Alcohol consumption has been a risk factor for more than 200 diseases, including esophageal cancer. Cell communication network 1 (CCN1), a matricellular protein, is highly expressed in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) but is barely detectable in esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC). Alcohol consumption has been identified as a major contributor to ESCC development, but its role in EAC is uncertain. This study examines the impact of acute (30 min) or prolonged (12 h) alcohol exposure (5, 100, and 500 mM) on CCN1 expression and function in esophageal epithelial cells, including normal (HEEC), ESCC (KYSE150 and KYSE410), and EAC (OE19 and OE33), in association with the activity of MMP2, MMP9, and MMP14. It was found that alcohol exposure promoted CCN1 expression in both normal and tumor cells but induced CCN1 cleavage exclusively in EAC cells, generating an 18-kDa fragment that promotes tumor growth. MMP9, which was active only in EAC cells, was found to mediate this cleavage. Forced activation of MMP9 in either normal or ESCC cells improved cell viability, whereas inhibition of MMP9 in EAC cells attenuated cell survival. Taken together, alcohol exposure promotes MMP9-mediated CCN1 cleavage in EAC, converting CCN1 from a pro-death to a pro-survival factor for EAC. This makes alcohol consumption a risk factor not only for ESCC development but also for EAC progression. A preprint can be found at d197for5662m48.cloudfront.net.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cell Communication and Signaling published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) survivors frequently experience a wide range of symptoms known as post-acute sequelae of SARS-CoV-2 (PASC) or long COVID. Importantly, complications arising from microvascular dysfunction, blood-brain barrier (BBB) disruption, and chronic neuroinflammation have been implicated in driving PASC within the central nervous system (CNS), known as neuro-PASC. Notably, people with HIV (PWH), who suffer from chronic neuroinflammation, BBB impairment, and glial cell dysfunction, collectively known as neuro-HIV, are generally at higher risk of neuro-PASC. The overlap between neuro-PASC and neuro-HIV raises concerns that HIV and SARS-CoV-2 co-infection may exacerbate neurological dysfunctions among PWH. In this study, using an in-vitro cell culture model, we examine the effects of HIV and SARS-CoV-2 mono- and co-infection in microglia, astrocytes, and pericytes. Our results demonstrated that majority of brain cell types support SARS-CoV-2 replication, in the presence and absence of HIV infection. Furthermore, in both mono- and co-infected cells, there were varying degree of up- and downregulation of SARS-CoV-2 host cell entry factors, such as ACE2, TMPRSS2, NRP1, and TRIM28, and inflammatory cytokines including IL-6, TNF-α, and IL-1β. Moreover, conditioned media collected from HIV, SARS-CoV-2, and HIV/SARS-CoV-2 co-infected astrocytes and pericytes were shown to be neurotoxic. Additionally, proteomic analysis has revealed a unique set of proteins significantly up/down regulated in HIV/SARS-CoV-2 co-infected astrocytes and pericytes. The gene set enrichment analysis of these proteins indicates dysregulation of lipid, energy, and immune metabolism pathways linked to neurodegenerative disorders like Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, Huntington's disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. These in-vitro findings indicate that astrocytes and pericytes from HIV/SARS-CoV-2 co-infection exhibit altered protein expression profiles, implicating dysregulated signaling pathways associated with neurodegenerative dysfunction.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Medical Virology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Membrane-bound neuropilin-1 (Nrp-1) has been implicated as a regulator of insulin resistance-related lipid metabolism, but little is known about its circulating form, soluble Nrp-1 (sNrp-1), in a metabolic context. Here we investigated the association between plasma levels of sNrp-1 and metabolic variables in 501 participants from the Prospective investigation of Obesity, Energy and Metabolism (POEM) study. Metabolic phenotyping included blood sampling, dual energy X-ray absorptiometry scan, magnetic resonance imaging for fat distribution, and a glucose tolerance test. Associations were examined using linear regression models and Spearman's rank correlation. Plasma sNrp-1 levels were inversely associated with levels of total fatty acids, triglycerides and lactate, and positively associated with markers of insulin sensitivity. In human Simpson-Golabi-Behmel Syndrome (SGBS) adipocytes, we showed that treatment with recombinant Nrp-1 reduced phosphorylation of hormone-sensitive lipase in the basal state and attenuated isoproterenol-stimulated glycerol release, a measure of total lipolytic activity. Based on these findings, we thus postulate that sNrp-1-mediated suppression of lipolysis could explain our observed association between plasma sNrp-1 and a favorable lipid profile in humans. Further studies are warranted to establish causality and to clarify the role of sNrp-1 in promoting insulin sensitivity in human adipose tissue.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42547908 is a review article
Ischemic heart disease remains a leading cause of mortality worldwide. Although mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) transplantation offers a promising strategy for myocardial infarction, its therapeutic efficacy is limited by poor cell survival and insufficient regenerative capacity. Traditional Chinese medicine has been widely used to promote blood circulation and treat ischemic diseases. Chuanxiong-Chishao (Ligusticum chuanxiong and Paeoniae Radix Rubra) is a commonly used herb pair for this purpose. This study aimed to investigate whether Chuanxiong-Chishao combined with MSCs could synergistically enhance angiogenesis after myocardial infarction. A rat model of myocardial infarction (MI) was established by permanent ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery, and the animals were randomly assigned to the sham, model, MSCs, and Chuanxiong-Chishao combined with MSCs (CC-MSCs) groups. MSCs were injected intramyocardially immediately after ligation, and herbal treatment was administered for 28 days. Cardiac function was evaluated by echocardiography, myocardial fibrosis by Masson staining, and angiogenesis by CD31 immunofluorescence. Proteomic profiling was performed using label-free quantitative analysis, and key proteins were validated by Western blot. Compared with MSCs alone, CC-MSCs significantly improved left ventricular ejection fraction, fractional shortening, and cardiac output, reduced infarct size, and enhanced neovascularization in MI rats. Proteomic analysis identified 154 differentially expressed proteins between the model and CC-MSCs groups, and Gene Ontology enrichment analysis indicated significant activation of angiogenesis-related processes. Among these proteins, CDC42, NRP1, and AMOT were markedly altered, which was further confirmed by Western blot analysis. These findings suggest that Chuanxiong-Chishao enhances MSC-mediated angiogenesis and cardiac repair after MI, potentially through modulation of angiogenesis-related protein networks.Copyright© 2025 Polish Physiological Society.
Oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) frequently metastasizes, leading to poor patient outcomes. Cysteine-rich angiogenic inducer 61 (Cyr61/CCN1) has been implicated in cancer progression; however, the downstream mechanism driving OSCC motility remains incompletely defined. Cyr61 expression was elevated in OSCC and associated with advanced clinicopathological features. In OSCC cell lines, recombinant Cyr61 enhanced wound closure and Transwell migration and increased intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) expression at both the mRNA and protein levels. ICAM-1 silencing significantly attenuated Cyr61-induced cell motility, indicating that ICAM-1 is an important downstream effector. Mechanistically, Cyr61 signaling was initiated through integrin αvβ3 and αvβ5, as neutralizing antibodies and siRNAs targeting these integrins suppressed Cyr61-induced migration and ICAM-1 expression. Cyr61 also induced phosphorylation of PLC, PKC, and c-Src, and pharmacological or siRNA-mediated inhibition of these kinases attenuated ICAM-1 upregulation and cell migration. Moreover, Cyr61 enhanced AP-1 activity via c-Jun phosphorylation, increased c-Jun occupancy at the ICAM-1 promoter, and inhibition of AP-1 signaling diminished Cyr61-driven ICAM-1 expression and motility. Together, these data define an integrin αvβ3/αvβ5-PLC-PKC-c-Src-AP-1 axis that transcriptionally upregulates ICAM-1, promoting OSCC migration and providing a mechanistic basis for targeting Cyr61-driven migratory programs in OSCC.© The author(s).
Inflammaging is considered as a fundamental mechanism of age-related skin involution, mediated by chronic inflammation, fibroblast dysfunction and collagen matrix degradation. The study considers the modulating effect of exosomes on the culture of dermal fibroblasts (DF1) during inflammaging. The experimental model included three groups: intact control, induced inflammaging, inflammaging in the presence of exosomes. The methodology was based on an MTT test to assess the metabolic activity of cells and immunohistochemical analysis with detection of a panel of markers involved in the regulation of inflammation (NF-κB/p65, CCN1), redox homeostasis (superoxide dismutase, prohibitin), cell cycle (p53, Ki-67), as well as endogenous geroprotective factors (Klotho, SIRT6) and receptor apparatus (EGFR). It has been shown that exosomes initiate a multiple cytoprotective response. At the same time, endogenous antioxidant systems are activated (the expression of Klotho and prohibitin increases), which is accompanied by an increase in the activity of superoxide dismutase and a reduction in oxidative stress. There is also suppression of stress-induced signaling cascades - inhibition of p53 correlates with the preservation of the proliferative potential of fibroblasts, while suppression of transduction along the NF-κB/CCN1 axis reduces the pro-inflammatory load and stabilizes the extracellular matrix. Thus, the results of the study indicate that exosomes, acting on the key pathogenetic links of cell aging, can be considered as potential geroprotectors.
The roles of inflammatory and fibrogenic biomarkers in chronic hepatitis B (CHB) infection and hepatitis B virüs (HBV)-related cirrhosis remain incompletely understood. The current study investigated the diagnostic and discriminative ability of amphiregulin (AREG), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and neuropilin-1 (Nrp-1) as biomarkers of HBV-related cirrhosis.This cross-sectional analytical study included 70 patients with CHB (43 without cirrhosis and 27 with HBVrelated cirrhosis) and 60 healthy controls. Clinical and laboratory data were obtained from hospital records. Serum IL-6, Nrp-1, and AREG levels collected during outpatient visits were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Group differences were analyzed using the Kruskal-Wallis test, discriminative performance was evaluated using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis, and factors independently associated with cirrhosis were identified using logistic regression.IL-6 and Nrp-1 levels were higher in patients with noncirrhotic and HBV-related cirrhotic CHB than in healthy controls (P < .001), with no significant difference between the patient subgroups. AREG levels were lower in the overall CHB cohort than in controls (P < .001) but higher in patients with cirrhosis than in those without cirrhosis (P = .001). ROC analysis showed that AREG had moderate discriminative ability for HBV-related cirrhosis (area under the curve (AUC) = 0.749). The optimal Youden-derived cutoff value was 2.29 ng/mL, with a sensitivity of 74% and a specificity of 65%. In logistic regression, AREG was independently associated with HBV-related cirrhosis (P = .012). Addition of ln-transformed AREG to age- and sex-adjusted aspartate aminotransferase-to-platelet ratio index (APRI)- and Fibrosis-4 index (FIB-4)-based models increased the AUC from 0.923 to 0.970 and from 0.938 to 0.980, respectively.AREG may serve as a complementary biomarker with moderate discriminative value for HBV-related cirrhosis but is unlikely to be useful as a standalone diagnostic or prognostic marker. Although IL-6 and Nrp-1 reflected underlying inflammatory activity, their ability to distinguish cirrhosis was limited.https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.
Leptomeningeal disease (LMD) is a devastating complication of metastatic breast cancer that leads to severe neurologic symptoms and a poor prognosis. Current treatment options, including radiation and intrathecal chemotherapy, offer limited efficacy and are associated with significant toxicity. Generally, systemic therapy in LMD poorly penetrates the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Leveraging the L-type amino acid transporter 1 (LAT1) represents a unique therapeutic strategy, as LAT1 facilitates transport of medications across the BBB, and is also highly expressed in metastatic cancer cells. QBS72S is a first-in-class BBB-penetrant bifunctional molecule targeting overexpression of LAT1 to selectively eliminate cancer cells. It has shown preclinical efficacy in a mouse model of breast cancer LMD.This Phase 2a, single-arm, open-label clinical trial (NCT05305365) investigated the safety, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentration, pharmacokinetics, and preliminary efficacy of QBS72S in participants with breast cancer brain metastases. Secondary endpoints included progression-free survival, overall survival, and duration of response. Correlative analyses included LAT1 immunohistochemistry and CSF cell-free RNA sequencing.In this analysis, we report results from breast cancer patients with LMD (n = 10) treated with QBS72S. QBS72S was reliably detected in CSF, adequately tolerated, and two participants exhibited long-term radiographic stability or improvement lasting 6-7 months.These early findings support further investigation of QBS72S as a targeted therapy for LMD, addressing an urgent unmet need in metastatic breast cancer.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for Neuro-Oncology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Blown pack spoilage (BPS) is a major concern to the meat industry and is primarily caused by Clostridium estertheticum, a psychrophilic spore-forming, anaerobic bacterium. We investigated the survival mechanisms of C. estertheticum and the efficacy of various sanitizers against C. estertheticum spores. When cultured alone or with Pseudomonas poae at 10°C in a biofilm reactor, viable C. estertheticum vegetative cells were recovered only sporadically from stainless steel coupons. However, they were consistently and constantly recovered from planktonic cultures under various conditions for up to 96 h. Spores attached to stainless steel coupons (5.76 ± 0.03 log CFU/cm2) were treated with water, PowerFoam, BioDestroy, peroxyacetic acid, UV-C LED, or plasma-activated water. BioDestroy and UV-C reduced (P < 0.05) the spore counts by ≥ 4.5 log units, while the other treatments had reductions, if at all, by < 1 log. Heating at 60 or 80°C before UV-C exposure did not affect spore reduction. When C. estertheticum spores were co-cultured with P. poae, Leuconostoc gelidum or Leu. gelidum and Latilactobacillus sakei in biofilm reactors at 10°C for up to 96 h, recovery of spores from coupons was not affected by incubation time or companion cultures. The companion cultures all developed biofilms. Treatments with BioDestroy or UV-C reduced viable spore counts in biofilms to mostly below the detection level. Interestingly, P. poae and Lat. sakei may sensitize spores to subsequent treatment. Genome analysis revealed genes encoding biosynthetic gene clusters in these two strains, in particular bacteriocins.Copyright © 2026 Ng, Tran, Wang, Zhang and Yang were federal government employees when the work was conducted. As such, the crown right should be used. Crown copyright @ His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, 2026.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42552051
Despite the established role of endo-epicardial dissociation in the substrate of persistent atrial fibrillation (PsAF), the underlying mechanisms within the 3D atrial wall that lead to this phenomenon are not fully understood. Using personalized digital twin (DT) technology, we investigated the association between 3D transmurally heterogenous fibrosis architecture and endo-epicardial dissociation in PsAF. LGE-MRI scans from 21 PsAF patients were used to generate bi-atrial DTs. Following virtual induction of reentry using programmed stimulation, a comparative analysis of the electrophysiological and structural properties of reentry-sustaining regions (RRs, n = 91) against controls (non-RRs, n = 73) was performed. RRs exhibited significantly greater endo-epicardial dissociation compared to non-RRs, evidenced by larger differences in median transmembrane potential (60.1 vs. 4.1 mV, P < 0.001) and local activation times (55 vs. 14.9 ms, P < 0.001). Lower dice similarity coefficient (DSC) was observed in RRs compared with non-RRs (median 0.731 (IQR 0.660-0.812) versus 0.880 (IQR 0.642-0.971), respectively; P = 0.0009). In multivariable logistic regression, fibrosis percentage, transmembrane voltage difference, and DSC were independently associated with RR status, whereas LAT difference was not. Our findings reveal that 3D transmurally heterogeneous fibrosis architecture is associated with endo-epicardial electrical dissociation in PsAF, with increased dissociation observed in regions harbouring reentrant circuits. Our findings advance the mechanistic understanding of PsAF arrhythmogenesis and provide a rationale for developing novel mapping and ablation strategies that account for the transmural complexity of the atrial substrate. KEY POINTS: Persistent atrial fibrillation (PsAF) remains a significant clinical challenge, often marked by high rates of post-ablation recurrence. While endo-epicardial dissociation is a known factor in the PsAF substrate, the underlying mechanisms within the 3D atrial wall that lead to this phenomenon remain incompletely understood. In this study, we utilized personalized digital twin technology derived from LGE-MRI scans of 21 patients to investigate the association between transmurally heterogeneous fibrosis and endo-epi electrical dissociation. Our findings reveal that 3D transmurally heterogeneous fibrosis architecture is associated with endo-epicardial electrical dissociation in PsAF. In multivariable analysis, fibrosis percentage, transmembrane voltage difference, and DSC were independently associated with reentrant activity. This work not only advances the mechanistic understanding of PsAF arrhythmogenesis but also suggests that successful clinical ablation strategies must account for the full 3D complexity of the atrial wall to target hidden intramural and epicardial pathways.© 2026 The Author(s). The Journal of Physiology © 2026 The Physiological Society.
Macrophage-associated responses at sites of nerve injury are involved in the initiation and persistence of neuropathic pain (NP). Immune semaphorins (SEMAs), including SEMA3A, SEMA3E, SEMA4A, SEMA4D, and SEMA7A, regulate macrophage migration and activation, but their roles in NP remain unclear. This study aimed to identify immune SEMAs associated with NP by analyzing their serum levels and expression in sensory nerve tissues of patients with NP, and to evaluate the potential effects of SEMA-targeted intervention in a mouse model.Serum SEMA levels were measured in 45 patients with NP and 17 age- and sex-matched healthy controls (HCs) using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Using immunohistochemistry, SEMA expression was examined in the peripheral nerves (PNs) and dorsal root ganglia (DRG) from seven autopsied/biopsied patients (four with and three without NP), and in male ICR mice with partial sciatic nerve ligation (PSNL). Additionally, we intraperitoneally injected SEMA-blocking immunoglobulin G (IgG) or control IgG into PSNL-operated mice for 5 consecutive days, either immediately after PSNL (preventive protocol) or from day 14 (therapeutic protocol). Mechanical hypersensitivity was assessed using von Frey filaments. In vitro, mouse DRG neurons treated with or without SEMA3E were analyzed for neurite outgrowth and gene expression.Serum SEMA3E levels tended to be higher in patients with NP than in HCs, although this difference did not remain significant after correction for multiple comparisons. SEMA3E immunoreactivity appeared to be increased in macrophages in both PNs and the DRG, and was also observed in satellite glial cells in the DRG of patients with NP. Similarly, SEMA3E upregulation was observed in macrophages in the injured PNs of PSNL-operated mice. Administration of SEMA3E-blocking IgG was associated with reduced macrophage-associated signals in PNs and attenuated hypersensitivity in PSNL-operated mice under both treatment protocols. In vitro, SEMA3E was associated with reduced neurite outgrowth in mouse DRG neurons.SEMA3E expression appears to be increased at sites of nerve injury in both patients with NP and a mouse model of NP. Experimental findings from the mouse model suggest that SEMA3E may be associated with pain-related hypersensitivity. SEMA3E blockade might represent a potential therapeutic approach for NP.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Local ablation therapies (LATs), including radiofrequency (RFA) and microwave ablation (MWA), are established for small hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) as standard treatment. External beam radiotherapy (EBRT), including stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) and proton beam therapy (PBT), has emerged as a non-invasive alternative; however, direct comparative evidence remains limited. We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis comparing the efficacy and safety of EBRT versus LAT in patients with HCC.PubMed/MEDLINE, Embase, Cochrane Library, and KoreaMed were searched through June 2025 per PRISMA guidelines. Eligible studies included retrospective or prospective comparisons of EBRT (SBRT/PBT) with LAT (RFA/MWA) reporting recurrence or survival. Hazard ratios (HRs) and odds ratios (ORs) were pooled using random-effects models.Twelve studies (2,768) patients were included. Compared with LAT, EBRT was associated with significantly lower local recurrence (OR 0.36, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.25-0.50; P<0.001; I² = 0%) and improved local progression-free survival (HR 0.41, 95% CI 0.34-0.50; P <0.001), regardless of tumor size. Progression-free survival favored EBRT (HR 0.80, 95% CI 0.64-1.00; P = 0.049), whereas overall survival did not differ significantly between modalities (HR 1.24, 95% CI 0.83-1.84; P = 0.291). Severe toxicities (grade ≥3) were comparable between groups for acute (OR 0.78, 95% CI 0.27-2.24) and late events (OR 1.29, 95% CI 0.85-1.95).EBRT was associated with better local control without significant differences in survival or toxicity compared with LAT. These findings support the safety and efficacy of EBRT for local treatment of patients with liver-confined HCC.
The pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis (MS) remains incompletely elucidated. Semaphorins play an active role in the immune and nervous systems by regulating receptor-mediated adhesion mechanisms. Immunosemaphorins have recently emerged as diagnostic biomarkers or therapeutic targets in MS.This study aimed to investigate alterations in semaphorins (Sema) 3A, 3F, 4A, 4D, and 7A in newly diagnosed, treatment-naive patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS).In this prospective case-control study, semaphorin levels were evaluated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in 40 consecutive patients (serum and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)) and 40 healthy controls (serum).Serum levels of Sema3A, Sema4A, Sema4D, and Sema7A were lower in RRMS patients than in healthy controls and remained significant after correction for multiple testing. In exploratory analyses, OCB count was negatively correlated with serum Sema4A and Sema7A and positively correlated with CSF Sema7A. Patients with an OCB count ≥12 had lower serum levels of Sema3F, Sema4A, and Sema7A. Sema4D levels were higher in patients with an IgG index ≥0.7. Patients with infratentorial lesions had lower serum Sema4A levels and higher CSF Sema4A levels.Low serum levels of Sema3A may be diagnostically relevant in RRMS. Low serum levels of Sema7A and elevated CSF levels may be associated with inflammatory immune activation. Further studies are needed for Sema3F, Sema4A, and Sema4D.Copyright © 2026 Sarıdaş, Aydın, Özpar, Koç, Hakyemez, Alkan and Turan.
Size-specific dose estimate (SSDE) uses linear dimensions measured on a computed tomographic (CT) image to scale the scanner-reported volumetric computed tomography dose index (CTDIvol) and thereby estimate dose. The objectives of this retrospective observational study were to evaluate whether the American Association of Physicists in Medicine (AAPM) geometric size metrics for abdominal CT, when implemented using canine-specific size measurements, correlate with water-equivalent diameter (Dw) in canine patients and to compare institutional SSDEs with human benchmarks. Abdominal CT scans from 30 dogs across three body weight categories (<10, 10-30, and >30 kg) were analyzed. The relationships between effective diameters calculated using four geometric metrics-dorsoventral dimension (DV), lateral dimension (LAT), the sum of DV and LAT, and the square root of their product-and Dw, which incorporates both size and attenuation, were analyzed using linear regression. The strongest correlation with Dw was observed for the combined DV and LAT metrics (R2 0.94, p < 0.001). The displayed CTDIvol underestimated SSDE by 50%. The 75th percentile of the SSDE for a single-phase, pre-contrast abdominal examination was 21 mGy, two to four times higher than the US human dose reference level. In conclusion, geometric size metrics measured from a single CT image were in close agreement with attenuation-based SSDE (Dw) for canine abdominal CT scans, supporting the feasibility of applying the AAPM SSDE estimation method to canine abdominal CT imaging. These findings demonstrate the importance of incorporating patient size into CT dose estimation and suggest that institutional SSDE values may warrant dose optimization in veterinary abdominal CT practice.© 2026 The Author(s). Veterinary Radiology & Ultrasound published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American College of Veterinary Radiology.
The polymorphism of the 1:1 nicotinamide:adipic acid (NIC:AA) cocrystal system was re-examined by combining structural and thermodynamic approaches. Differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), solid-state NMR (ssNMR), and variable-temperature powder X-ray diffraction (VT-PXRD) confirmed an enantiotropic relationship between the two polymorphs, evidenced by a direct solid-solid transformation from triclinic form I to monoclinic form II at ∼ 370 K. Solubility data subsequently indicated that this temperature is ∼78 K higher than the equilibrium transition temperature (289.2 ± 0.7 K), consistent with a phase transition hindered by a substantial activation barrier. This also explained why the reverse process was not detected on cooling within the time scale of the DSC, ssNMR, and VT-PXRD experiments. The relative stabilities of forms I and II, as well as their stability relative to dissociation into the coformers, at 298 K, were quantitatively established based on Gibbs energy, enthalpy, and entropy data obtained from solution calorimetry and solubility measurements. The results indicated that at 298 K: (i) form II is thermodynamically more stable than form I, despite having a lower lattice enthalpy; (ii) this is consistent with the conclusion that the equilibrium transition temperature (289.2 ± 0.7 K) is lower than 298 K and suggests that the stabilization of form II (the high-temperature polymorph) versus form I (low-temperature polymorph) under ambient conditions is of an entropic nature; (iii) both polymorphs are stable with respect to dissociation into the coformers nicotinamide and adipic acid; and (iv) the stability gain upon cocrystallization is primarily of an enthalpic rather than entropic nature, reflecting a lattice enthalpy advantage relative to the pure components. Single-crystal X-ray diffraction further showed that at ∼298 K form I exhibits an ∼3% higher density and packing index than form II, in line with the observed lattice enthalpy difference ΔlatH mo(crI) > ΔlatH mo(crII). Finally, although cocrystallization is frequently used to produce solid forms with enhanced solubility or stability relative to the individual coformers, the formation of the NIC:AA cocrystal does lead to improved solid-state stability but not to solubility enhancement, at least when acetonitrile is used as solvent.© 2026 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) progression from benign polyps to malignant adenocarcinomas is a complex process involving the abnormal proliferation and differentiation of colon epithelial cells. Colorectal adenomas (CRAs), the precursors to most CRCs, are histologically classified into tubular adenomas (TAs), tubulovillous adenomas (TVAs), and villous adenomas (VAs). Despite new findings, the molecular signatures and pathways specific to each adenoma type remain poorly understood. This study aimed to identify specific biomarkers and pathways associated with the progression of TA, TVA, and VA to CRC.We analyzed gene expression data from 169 CRA samples and 65 adjacent normal tissues from the GSE117606 and GSE117607 datasets. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified for each adenoma type, followed by functional enrichment and protein-protein interaction network analysis. Our results revealed 1,024 DEGs common to all three adenoma types, with COL1A2 and CXCL8 highlighted as hub genes. Additionally, specific genes such as NTRK2, JUN, LAT, and DRD2 were identified for TA; H2AFZ, NME1, MRTO4, and SSRP1 were identified for TVA; and WDR43, POLR1B, and NHP2 were identified for VA. Functional enrichment analysis revealed key pathways involved in adenoma progression, providing insights into the molecular mechanisms driving their malignancy potential. The expression of candidate genes was further validated by RT-qPCR, and repeated cross-validated ROC analysis supported the discriminative potential of CXCL8 and COL1A2 for distinguishing CRA and CRC tissues from adjacent normal mucosa.These findings provide valuable insights into adenoma biology and offer potential applications for targeted therapies in CRC prevention and treatment.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Pelvic organ prolapse (POP) is a prevalent condition characterized by weakened pelvic floor tissues, significantly impacting women's quality of life. Current treatments, including synthetic meshes and native tissue repair, face challenges of high recurrence rates and complications. This study developed a novel tissue-engineered strategy utilizing a decellularized human amniotic membrane (HAAM) scaffold seeded with autologous adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cells (ADSCs) and vaginal wall fibroblasts (HVFs) to construct a bioactive pelvic ligament equivalent. We first validated the successful preparation of HAAM with preserved extracellular matrix integrity and characterized the phenotypic markers of ADSCs and HVFs. In a rat abdominal wall defect model, the HAAM+ADSCs+HVFs composite demonstrated superior tissue regeneration and integration, reduced fibrosis, and effective modulation of the host immune microenvironment -evidenced by enhanced repair and decreased infiltration of pro-inflammatory cells -compared to all control groups (including HAAM alone and single-cell groups). Transcriptomic analysis revealed that the composite treatment promoted extracellular matrix organization and collagen synthesis while suppressing matrix degradation (MMP2/MMP9) and inflammatory pathways. Most importantly, mechanistic studies identified TGFB2 as the key paracrine mediator through which ADSCs exert their effects: TGFB2 inhibition abolished ADSCs-induced improvements in HVFs proliferation, migration, and anti-apoptosis, while its overexpression replicated these benefits. Western blot confirmed that TGFB2 coordinately upregulates COL1A1/COL3A1 and downregulates MMP2/MMP9 to restore ECM homeostasis. These comprehensive findings demonstrate that the HAAM-based ADSCs-HVFs composite promotes functional tissue regeneration via TGFB2-mediated mechanisms, offering a safe, effective, and regenerative therapeutic strategy with strong translational potential for POP.Copyright © 2026 Dong, Zhang, Duan and Xia.
Acral melanoma (AM) exhibits significant intratumoral heterogeneity, but its tumor microenvironment (TME) and immune regulation remain unclear. This study aims to dissect TME heterogeneity and establish a prognostic model based on key cell subpopulations.We collected AM single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and bulk RNA-seq data from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) and the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). Unsupervised clustering, CellChat, and Scissor analysis were performed to characterize cellular heterogeneity, cell-cell communication, and prognosis-related cell subpopulations. Kaplan-Meier analysis was used to assess the prognostic value of key genes, which were further validated by multiplex immunohistochemistry (mIHC).In AM, Mel_C2, C7, and C9 with high SEMA6A and KIT expression were strongly linked to poor prognosis. We further identified a senescent fibroblast subpopulation (sCAF_CDKN2A) characterized by high fibroblast senescence signature (FSS) scores. Integrating Scissor analysis of fibroblast subtypes with bulk prognostic data, we identified COL3A1, VCAN, and KIT as prognosis-associated genes upregulated in poor-outcome-related fibroblast subsets. Cell-cell communication analysis revealed that sCAF_CDKN2A engages in an immunosuppressive network, interacting with regulatory T cells (Tregs) via MIF signaling and receiving signals from exhausted CD8+ T cells through PPIA-BSG interactions. Using transcription factor expression patterns from these fibroblast subtypes, we constructed a prognostic model that effectively stratified patients into distinct risk groups with significant differences in overall survival (OS). mIHC confirmed significantly higher protein levels of SEMA6A and COL3A1 in tumor tissues compared to matched normal tissues.We established a novel prognostic model for AM and identified sCAF_CDKN2A as an immunosuppressive senescent fibroblast subpopulation driving poor prognosis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) migration is the key event in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis (AS) and plaque instability. Trimethylamine-N-oxide (TMAO) induces VSMC migration to promote the progression of AS. However, the effects of the N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification on this process remain unclear. Here, TMAO increased total m6A levels in human aortic smooth muscle cells (HASMCs) and decreased fat mass and obesity-associated protein (FTO) and YTH domain-containing family protein 2 (YTHDF2) protein expression. FTO or YTHDF2 overexpression significantly inhibited HASMC migration induced by TMAO. Mechanistically, the COL3A1 gene was shown to be critical for the regulation of HASMC migration by FTO or YTHDF2. Furthermore, methylated RNA immunoprecipitation and RNA stability assays demonstrated that FTO bound to the COL3A1 mRNA and altered its m6A modification, resulting in its decay. In vivo, VSMC-specific FTO or YTHDF2 deletion aggravated AS and plaque instability, whereas adeno-associated virus serotype 9 (AAV9)-mediated VSMC-specific YTHDF2 overexpression or COL3A1 knockdown exerted protective effects on AS and/or plaque instability. Notably, VSMC-specific FTO deletion promoted VSMC migration in atherosclerotic lesions in ApoE-/- AS model mice, whereas VSMC-specific YTHDF2 overexpression had the opposite effect. Overall, the in vitro and in vivo evidence highlights the critical role of the FTO/YTHDF2/COL3A1 axis in VSMC migration, AS, and plaque instability, suggesting that targeting the FTO/YTHDF2/COL3A1 axis in VSMCs may be a novel and promising therapeutic strategy for the treatment and prevention of AS and plaque instability.© 2026. Science China Press.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42557142 is a review article
Diabetes mellitus (DM) is characterized by chronic metabolic stress that promotes oxidative damage, genomic instability, and premature cellular aging, with adipose tissue senescence being a pivotal contributor to metabolic dysfunction. Yet the impact on DNA damage repair (DDR) and telomere maintenance in adipose tissue remains poorly defined. This study investigated DDR capacity, telomere integrity, and the senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP) in adipose tissue and adipose-derived stromal cells (ADSCs) under diabetic conditions. Using an obese diabetic (ob/ob) mouse model, we confirmed whole-blood telomere shortening, significant adipose tissue hypertrophy, metabolic dysregulation, and elevated DNA damage, evidenced by increased γH2AX-positive staining. In vitro, ADSCs exposed to a diabetic microenvironment (AGEs and TNFα) exhibited increased reactive oxygen species and DNA damage without a corresponding activation of DDR pathways, as indicated by unchanged PARP1 levels and broad downregulation of key DNA repair genes, including sensors (ATM, ABL1, RAD17) and effectors across MMR, NER, HR, and NHEJ pathways. This impaired genomic surveillance was accompanied by premature cellular senescence and significant repression of genes involved in telomere protection (shelterin complex), telomerase activity, and telomere maintenance, together with marked telomere shortening following prolonged exposure. Furthermore, diabetic conditions increased the secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines, chemokines, and growth factors. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that the diabetic microenvironment is associated with maladaptive DDR responses, telomere dysfunction, cellular senescence, and a pro-inflammatory secretory phenotype. This study highlights compromised genomic maintenance as a potential key mechanism underpinning adipose tissue dysfunction in DM and emphasizes the need for future investigations into the mechanisms underlying dysregulated DDR and telomere biology.© the author(s).
Chronic wound healing disorders remain a significant clinical challenge, largely due to the limited effectiveness of conventional therapeutic strategies. Emerging evidence suggests that engineered exosomes represent a promising cell-free therapeutic approach. This study aimed to elucidate the mechanisms by which fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21)-modified adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cell (ADSC) exosomes promote wound healing.ADSCs overexpressing FGF21 were established using genetic engineering, and FGF21-enriched exosomes (Exo@FGF21) were isolated and characterized using transmission electron microscopy and nanoparticle tracking analysis. The biological effects of Exo@FGF21 on human skin fibroblasts (HSFs) were assessed through proliferation, migration, invasion, and apoptosis assays. Glycolytic activity, glucose consumption, lactate production, ATP levels, and hydroxyproline content were evaluated to investigate metabolic changes. Mechanistic studies involved pharmacological inhibition of AMPK and knockdown of PFKFB3. Therapeutic efficacy was further examined in a mouse full-thickness skin defect model.Exo@FGF21 exhibited typical exosomal morphology with diameters ranging from 80 to 150 nm and expressed canonical exosomal markers CD9 and CD63. In vitro, Exo@FGF21 significantly enhanced fibroblast proliferation, migration, and invasion, promoted collagen synthesis-related gene expression (COL1A1, COL3A1, FN1), and reduced apoptosis. Mechanistically, Exo@FGF21 activated AMPK, suppressed mTOR signaling, and upregulated PFKFB3 expression. Both AMPK inhibition and PFKFB3 knockdown markedly attenuated these pro-repair effects. Metabolic analyses demonstrated enhanced glycolysis, increased glucose utilization, elevated lactate production, and augmented ATP and hydroxyproline levels, indicating glycolytic metabolic reprogramming. In vivo, Exo@FGF21 accelerated wound closure, promoted epidermal regeneration, enhanced collagen deposition, and activated the AMPK/mTOR/PFKFB3 pathway.FGF21-modified ADSC-derived exosomes promote wound healing by inducing fibroblast glycolytic metabolic reprogramming via the AMPK/mTOR/PFKFB3 signaling axis. These findings provide novel mechanistic insights and support the therapeutic potential of engineered exosome-based strategies for chronic wound repair.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
The rarer p190 (e1a2) transcript in chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is associated with atypical presentations; yet, its biological basis remains poorly understood. Using a cohort of 60 patients including 42 chronic phase patients age-matched 1:1 with 42 e13a2/e14a2 patients in the chronic phase, we investigated the clinical, genomic, and clonal features of e1a2 BCR::ABL1 CML. We identified 60 e1a2 BCR::ABL1 CML patients showing distinctive hematologic features including lower leukocyte and platelet counts and higher monocytosis (12.3% vs. 2.0%, P < 0.001). Additional somatic mutations were detected in 37/42 (88%) e1a2 BCR::ABL1 cases compared with 7/42 (17%) e13a2/e14a2 BCR::ABL1 cases. The mutational spectrum was dominated by ASXL1 and TET2, and closely resembled CMML-like profiles. Genomic breakpoint sequences of 34 e1a2 BCR::ABL1 cases showed that BCR and ABL1 coordinates were similar to those observed in 394 B-ALL. Longitudinal mutational tracking revealed two distinct clonal architectures. In 71% of patients, mutations disappeared with molecular response, consistent with BCR::ABL1 as the founding event. In contrast, 29% of patients had mutations with stable VAFs, while BCR::ABL1 transcript levels decreased after treatment, indicating that the fusion had been acquired within a pre-existing mutated clone. Single-cell genotyping experiments confirmed these clonal architectures. These patients frequently developed cytopenias under tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy and half required red blood cell transfusions, reflecting persistence of the ancestral clone rather than BCR::ABL1-driven disease. These findings show that e1a2 BCR::ABL1 CML frequently arises within complex, premutated clonal backgrounds, providing a biological basis for its atypical presentation and heterogeneous treatment response.© 2026 The Author(s). HemaSphere published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of European Hematology Association.
Left ventricular non-compaction (LVNC) is a genetically heterogeneous cardiomyopathy linked to sarcomeric and cytoskeletal genes, yet only one case has previously been associated with a troponin I (TNNI3) variant. Our case report describes the exceptionally rare coexistence of LVNC, a novel TNNI3 variant, and a hypermobile Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (hEDS) phenotype, genetically unrelated to TNNI3, resulting in a distinct clinical presentation.A 17-year-old female with joint hypermobility, chronic musculoskeletal pain, and a strong maternal history of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS) presented after a right shoulder subluxation. Screening echocardiogram unexpectedly revealed LVNC with mildly reduced systolic ventricular function. Cardiopulmonary exercise testing showed reduced peak VO2 and markedly elevated VE/VCO2 slope. Genetic testing identified a rare heterozygous TNNI3 variant of uncertain significance (c.318 G > C; p.K106N) within a conserved regulatory domain of cardiac troponin I, with no additional pathogenic variants in LVNC- or connective tissue-associated genes; cascade testing revealed the same variant in her mother.TNNI3-associated LVNC is extraordinarily rare. TNNI3 encodes cardiac troponin I, typically linked to hypertrophic and restrictive cardiomyopathy, occasionally dilated cardiomyopathy, and only rarely LVNC. LVNC has been reported in EDS almost exclusively in vascular EDS related to COL3A1, not in hEDS, adding further clinical distinctiveness. This case represents the first reported coexistence of LVNC with a TNNI3 variant in an adolescent with hEDS features and underscores the need for multimodal evaluation and family screening in patients with overlapping connective-tissue and autonomic phenotypes, rather than attributing LV hypertrabeculation to incidental or benign findings.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology.
Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is a rare hematologic malignancy in children, typically presenting with leukocytosis in the peripheral blood, and often accompanied by symptoms such as fever or splenomegaly. This report describes a rare pediatric case of CML that manifested solely as isolated thrombocytosis. Due to this atypical presentation, the patient was initially misdiagnosed with essential thrombocythemia (ET) and treated with hydroxyurea and aspirin, which yielded no clinical response. The diagnosis of CML was subsequently confirmed by detection of the BCR::ABL1 fusion gene. Upon confirmation, the patient was promptly initiated on imatinib therapy and achieved a complete cytogenetic response within 4 months. We also conducted a literature review of similar cases, discussing their prognosis and differential diagnosis with ET, and recommend early BCR::ABL1 fusion gene testing in all pediatric patients presenting with isolated thrombocytosis to ensure accurate diagnosis.© 2026 He and Fu.
Sjögren's Disease (SjD) is an autoimmune disorder characterized by salivary gland hypofunction and lymphocytic infiltration, yet the contribution of fibrosis to glandular dysfunction remains unclear.We evaluated the NOD/ShiLtJ mouse as a model for salivary gland fibrosis and used it to examine the impact of antifibrotic therapy on extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling. To assess therapeutic potential, we treated NOD/ShiLtJ female mice with nintedanib, an FDA-approved antifibrotic agent used to treat chronic fibrosing interstitial lung disease. Fibrosis was assessed using single-cell RNA sequencing combined with Picrosirius red staining and AI-assisted digital pathology quantification of collagen I patterning with FibroNest.Single-cell RNA sequencing revealed that fibroblast populations in the submandibular and sublingual salivary glands of the female NOD/ShiLtJ mouse exhibited increased levels of ECM genes, including Col1a1, Col1a2, and Col3a1, relative to control mice. Consistent with these transcriptional changes, Picrosirius Red staining, combined with AI-assisted fibrosis quantification of collagen I patterns, demonstrated significant fibrotic remodeling in the periacinar ECM in submandibular glands of female NOD/ShiLtJ mice relative to controls. Notably, fibrosis severity strongly correlated with the diabetic phenotype characteristic of this strain, and both periductal and periacinar fibrosis progressed with age. An 8-week nintedanib treatment resulted in modest but measurable reductions across multiple fibrotic indices.Collectively, these findings establish the NOD/ShiLtJ strain as a model of SjD-associated salivary gland fibrosis and provide proof-of-concept evidence supporting antifibrotic strategies as a potential therapeutic avenue for salivary gland dysfunction in SjD.Copyright © 2026 Morrissey, Nelson, Chen, Petitjean, Tavarez, Altrieth-Flagg, Moskwa, Williams-Atkinson, Fowler, Pena, Weston, Kumar, Aist and Larsen.
Vocal fold fibrosis (VFF), characterized by excessive extracellular matrix deposition, leads to permanent voice impairment, with current therapies often failing to restore vocal function. Current treatments are limited by suboptimal efficacy and high recurrence rates. Dysregulated energy metabolism is emerging as a critical driver of fibrosis. AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), a central cellular energy sensor, exerts broad antifibrotic effects in multiple organs, yet the therapeutic potential of novel AMPK activators, such as Aldometanib, in VFF remains to be fully characterized. This study aimed to evaluate the therapeutic potential and mechanisms of Aldometanib, a novel AMPK activator, in vocal fold fibrosis.A controlled animal study was conducted using an SD rat vocal fold injury model. Animals were randomly allocated into four groups: control, injury, and injury treated with low or high doses of Aldometanib. Primary vocal fold fibroblasts were isolated and cultured, then stimulated with TGF-β1 to induce fibroblast activation, followed by treatment with different concentrations of the AMPK activator Aldometanib. Key outcome measures included histopathological analysis of collagen deposition (Alcian blue and EVG staining), protein and gene expression levels of fibrotic markers (α-SMA, COL1A1, FN1), and components of the JAK2/STAT3 signaling pathway (p-AMPK, p-JAK2, p-STAT3).In vivo, compared with the injury only group, Aldometanib treatment significantly improved the histological architecture of the vocal fold lamina propria. These changes were accompanied by increased p-AMPK levels and decreased expression of p-JAK2, p-STAT3, α-SMA, COL1A1, and FN1. In vitro, Aldometanib attenuated TGF-β1-induced fibroblast activation, and these effects were effectively reversed by co-treatment with the AMPK inhibitor DOX, confirming AMPK pathway dependency.Pharmacological activation of AMPK with Aldometanib effectively alleviates vocal fold fibrosis by inhibiting the JAK2/STAT3 signaling axis. This study identifies AMPK as a promising novel therapeutic target for vocal fold fibrosis, supporting future development of more potent or specific AMPK activators and localized delivery systems for clinical translation.Copyright © 2026 The Voice Foundation. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Soft tissue tumors with chondroid matrix represent a heterogeneous group with persistent diagnostic challenges. Advances in molecular diagnostics have identified recurrent gene fusions in several chondroid neoplasms, predominantly involving FN1. Here, we report two cases of chondroid tumors harboring a novel FOS::PABPN1 fusion. The patients were young and presented with small, deep, peri-osseous nodules located in the extremities. Histologically, the tumors were well-circumscribed and lobulated. Both cases presented fibro-cartilaginous and spindle cell areas. No cytonuclear atypia, mitoses, or necrosis were observed. Immunohistochemistry (performed in Case 2) revealed positivity for S100, CD34, and FOS, with negativity for MDM2, HMGA2, PLAG1, and desmin. RNA sequencing identified an identical in-frame FOS::PABPN1 fusion transcript in both tumors. Unsupervised transcriptomic clustering positioned the cases near synovial chondromatoses and other chondroid lesions, despite the absence of FN1 rearrangements. Massive overexpression of the WIF1 (Wnt Inhibitory Factor1) gene was also observed. To our knowledge, this is the first description of FOS rearrangement in mesenchymal tumors exhibiting chondroid differentiation. The FOS::PABPN1 fusion expands the spectrum of FOS-altered neoplasms beyond osteoblastic and vascular lesions and defines a potential new molecular subset of benign chondroid tumors. These findings highlight the utility of RNA sequencing in the diagnosis of chondroid neoplasms in order to identify rearrangement (of FN1, THBS1 or FOS) or IDH1/2. The consistent upregulation of WIF1 may represent a potential diagnostic biomarker.© 2026 The Author(s). Genes, Chromosomes and Cancer published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
The infrapatellar fat pad (IFP) is increasingly recognized as an active contributor to knee osteoarthritis (KOA) pathogenesis. However, age-related transcriptional changes in the IFP remain poorly understood, and whether observed differences are purely age-dependent or confounded by disease status is unclear. This study aimed to compare transcriptomic profiles of the IFP between young patients with traumatic knee injury and older patients with KOA.IFP samples were obtained from three young trauma patients (21-28 years, KL grade 0) and three older patients with KOA (64-72 years, KL grade III-IV). Bulk RNA sequencing was performed to compare transcriptomes between groups. Differential expression was analyzed with DESeq2 (|log2FC| ≥1, unadjusted p < 0.05), followed by GO and KEGG pathway enrichment. Real-time PCR confirmed key expression changes.Compared with the young trauma group, the old KOA group exhibited 247 upregulated (CSN1S1, SCN9A, P2RY14, EIF3C, etc) and 334 downregulated genes (PI15, WISP3, DMKN, NUTM2G, etc). The old KOA group exhibited significantly reduced expression of extracellular matrix (ECM) genes, including COL1A1, COL2A1, and FN1. Additionally, core genes of the PI3K-Akt signaling pathway, such as AKT1, ITGA2B, and MYB, were also downregulated in the old KOA group.The IFP in old KOA exhibits a transcriptomic profile characterized by dampened ECM structural gene expression and suppressed PI3K-Akt signaling compared with young trauma patients. While confounded by injury status, these findings suggest that age-related loss of ECM integrity may contribute to IFP dysfunction in established KOA and warrant validation in healthy aging cohorts.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42558776
Whole-genome sequencing (WGS) projects for rare disease diagnosis typically yield a diagnostic rate of 25-41%, depending on the methods for patient selection and the extent of prior genetic testing. The Scottish Genomes Partnership (SGP) is a collaborative programme using genome sequencing to diagnose rare disease patients with presumed monogenic aetiology in the Scottish NHS. Within SGP, short-read sequencing (SRS) had previously achieved a diagnostic rate of 23% in affected families. To increase diagnostic yield, we applied Oxford Nanopore Technologies (ONT) long-read sequencing (LRS) to a cohort of 24 SGP families (74 individuals) that remained undiagnosed after SRS-based SNV/indel analysis. We also retrospectively reviewed SRS-derived structural variant (SV) calls to assess whether LRS results could have been detected in SRS data. After quality, rarity, panel-based and inheritance-based filtering, 392 candidate SVs were retained across de novo, homozygous recessive, compound heterozygous and X-linked inheritance models, of which 8 overlapped PanelApp diagnostic-grade "green" genes. Pathogenic or likely pathogenic de novo SVs were identified in 3 of 24 families: an AUTS2 inversion, a DLX5/6 locus inversion, and an FN1 deletion. All three SVs were independently confirmed by retrospective SRS re-analysis using SVRare. These findings demonstrate that LRS-based SV analysis, supported by orthogonal SRS re-analysis, can resolve clinically significant SVs in families who remain unsolved after standard rare disease testing.© 2026. The Author(s).
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and osteoarthritis (OA) frequently coexist, complicating diagnosis and treatment. The extracellular matrix (ECM) serves as a critical modulator of disease progression, coordinating multilayered matrix degradation and inflammatory cascades in both conditions. This study aims to identify ECM-driven molecular signatures to stratify the risk of RA and OA.We integrated bulk transcriptomics data from 113 samples across four datasets, as well as scRNA-seq data from 101 samples comprising 449,907 cells. Differential expression analysis, weighted gene co-expression network analysis, and machine learning were employed to identify ECM-related hub genes. A risk score (RS) model based on ridge regression was established and validated. The model was correlated with immune cell profiles, and a regulatory network involving miRNAs, mRNAs, transcription factors, and drugs was constructed.We identified eight ECM hub genes (SPARC, COL1A1, ANGPTL2, THY1, COL5A1, LRRC15, NID2, THBS3) that were significantly upregulated in RA and OA. The RS model stratified patients into high-risk and low-risk groups. The diagnostic performance of the model, as measured by AUC values, exceeded 0.8 across all cohorts. scRNA-seq and immune cell infiltration analyses revealed the involvement of these genes in ECM dysregulation. We predicted the relationship between genes and multiple factors, in which the drug Metoprolol was associated with LRRC15.We established an ECM-derived risk signature with robust diagnostic power, elucidating the shared mechanisms of ECM immune dysregulation. Metoprolol was associated with LRRC15 in the disease cohort. This study provides a framework for precise diagnosis and targeted therapy.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Heart failure (HF) represents the final stage of cardiovascular disease progression, characterized by high morbidity and mortality. Pressure overload in HF activates the PI3K/AKT pathway, and prolonged activation leads to pathological cardiac hypertrophy. However, the mechanism underlying sustained PI3K/AKT activation in pressure overload-induced HF remains unclear. In this study, we demonstrate that miR-203 overexpression in transgenic mice counteracts cardiac dysfunction and pathological remodeling in HF, whereas miR-203 downregulation exacerbates HF. At the cellular level, miR-203 overexpression significantly reduces Angiotensin II (Ang II)-induced cardiomyocyte hypertrophy and injury, while miR-203 knockdown aggravates these effects. Mechanistically, miR-203 binds to the 3' untranslated region (3'UTR) of insulin-like growth factor binding protein 5 (IGFBP5) mRNA, inhibiting IGFBP5 protein expression, thereby suppressing PI3K/AKT signaling and mitigating cardiomyocyte hypertrophy. Furthermore, we demonstrate that fibronectin-1 (FN1) is a critical functional partner for IGFBP5, as knockdown of FN1 attenuates IGFBP5-induced PI3K/AKT activation and hypertrophy. This study is the first to elucidate the role and mechanism of miR-203 in regulating pressure overload-induced HF, offering a potential genetic tool for HF therapy.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to The Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Sciences and Chinese Pharmacological Society.
Dermal group 2 innate lymphoid cells (dILC2s) contribute to skin homeostasis and inflammatory responses, yet they are frequently studied in Rag1-deficient mice in which the dILC2 compartment may itself be altered.We compared dILC2s from wild-type (WT) and Rag1-deficient mice by transcriptomic profiling, flow cytometric phenotyping, and functional analysis in a DNFB-induced contact hypersensitivity model with short-term adoptive lymphocyte transfer.Rag1 deficiency was associated with a marked expansion of dILC2s and broad transcriptional remodeling, including increased expression of Il7r, Thy1, Il5, and Il13, together with enrichment of cytokine signaling, apoptosis, and activation pathways. In vivo, Rag1-deficient mice showed attenuated ear swelling after DNFB challenge and, in contrast to WT mice, failed to expand their absolute dILC2 abundance during inflammation. Short-term adoptive transfer of sensitized WT lymphocytes modestly modified dILC2 dynamics but did not restore the WT inflammatory phenotype. At the cellular level, Rag1-deficient dILC2s displayed a predominantly CD44hi phenotype, increased basal apoptosis, elevated caspase-3/7 activity, and increased BrdU incorporation.Together, these findings show that Rag1 deficiency durably alters dILC2 state and responsiveness and should be taken into account when interpreting cutaneous inflammation models in immunodeficient mice.Copyright © 2026 Saleh, Liao, Braun, Salinas, Schön, Dasari and Buhl.
Post-acute sequelae of SARS-CoV-2 (PASC) or Long-COVID affects millions and remains mechanistically undefined due to its heterogeneous clinical presentation. Identifying robust biological signatures is essential for understanding disease mechanisms and improving diagnosis. Here, we investigated the protein cargo of plasma-derived small extracellular vesicles (SEVs) from PASC-positive and PASC-negative individuals to identify EV-linked biomarkers of Long-COVID.SEVs were isolated from EDTA plasma of PASC-positive (n=20) and PASC-negative (n=11) individuals using size-exclusion chromatography. SEV protein cargo was profiled across more than 5400 proteins using the Olink Explore HT platform.PASC-positive patients commonly reported fatigue, shortness of breath, brain fog, sleep disruption, and mood changes. Proteomic analysis revealed 269 significantly dysregulated proteins, including 84 upregulated and 21 downregulated, with a fold change >2 in PASC. These differentially altered proteins were enriched in pathways related to coagulation, inflammation, apoptosis, fibrosis, extracellular matrix remodeling, mitochondrial dynamics, and immune activation. PASC-positive SEVs showed persistent increases in FN1, HCF-H, HGF, and IL-17RA, proteins previously dysregulated in acute COVID-19. These markers showed greater differences in SEVs than in matched plasma, particularly HGF and IL-17RA, which were significantly altered in SEVs but not in plasma.Proteomic alterations in SEVs from PASC patients highlight the inflammatory, thrombotic, and neurobiological dysregulation, underscoring the potential of SEVs as biomarkers and mechanistic drivers of long COVID.Copyright © 2026 Chandran, Chen, Ram, Spikes, Chalise and Dhillon.
Clear cell renal cell carcinoma exhibits striking intra-tumoral heterogeneity at morphological and genetic levels, complicating treatment and contributing to disease progression. CcRCCs with rhabdoid differentiation are highly aggressive tumors characterized by distinct histopathologies. However, the relationship between morphology, underlying molecular alterations, and tumor behavior remains largely unclear. Here, we present Deep Visual Multi-Omics, an approach integrating digital pathology, morphology-guided single-cell isolation, and ultra-sensitive multi-omics profiling to link cell morphologies to their molecular underpinnings. Across five tumors, we profiled ~40,000 AI-classified and expert-curated cells. We identified progressive molecular dysregulation across cells with increasing histopathological grade coexisting within heterogeneous tumors as well as distinct molecular alterations associated with aggressive rhabdoid ccRCC cells, including signatures consistent with enhanced FOXM1-driven proliferation, altered cell-matrix interactions, and a putative immunomodulatory phenotype. Notably, rhabdoid cells exhibited elevated expression of IFN-beta, PD-L1, CD38, ITGB2, and integrin signaling, suggesting that they themselves may act as a source of signals influencing the local immune microenvironment. Besides providing new insights into the biology of ccRCC and highlighting avenues for future translational studies, this illustrates the potential of Deep Visual Multi-omics to dissect cancer heterogeneity and characterize high-risk cell populations.© 2026. The Author(s).
Mutant C9orf72 has been extensively studied as a major genetic cause of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and frontotemporal dementia, and is also known to generate Huntington's disease (HD)-like phenocopies. However, despite this strong disease association, the role of wild-type C9orf72 (wt-C9orf72) in neurodegeneration remains largely unexplored. HD is a neurodegenerative disease, and characterized by the accumulation of misfolded mutant Huntingtin (mHTT) and impaired proteostasis, yet the upstream mechanisms driving ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) dysfunction are not fully understood. Here, we identify a previously unrecognized modulatory role of wt-C9orf72 in regulating mHTT aggregation in experimental HD models. Analysis of public transcriptomic datasets reveal context-dependent C9ORF72 expression changes across HD-related human datasets, while C9orf72 levels are increased in R6/2 mouse brain lysates. Functional analyses reveal that overexpression of wt-C9orf72 increases mHTT aggregation and is accompanied by increased apoptotic signaling and reduced cell viability. Unbiased proteomic profiling identifies Stat1 as a key downstream effector. Mechanistically, wt-C9orf72 promotes Stat1 activation and nuclear translocation, leading to transcriptional upregulation of Isg15, a ubiquitin-like modifier. Elevated Isg15 disrupts UPS function, resulting in accumulation of polyubiquitinated proteins and impaired proteasomal degradation. Importantly, genetic suppression of Stat1 or Isg15 significantly attenuates C9orf72-associated mHTT aggregation, supporting a functional C9orf72-Stat1-Isg15 axis. Consistent with these cell-based findings, Stat1, phosphorylated Stat1 and Isg15 levels are elevated in the cortex and striatum of R6/2 HD mouse brains. Collectively, our findings identify a novel wt-C9orf72-Stat1-Isg15 axis that promotes proteasomal dysfunction and mHTT aggregation, providing new insights into wt-C9orf72-associated protein homeostasis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Interferon-stimulated gene 15 (ISG15) encodes a ubiquitin-like protein that regulates diverse cellular responses, including antiviral immunity, through its conjugation to proteins in a process known as ISGylation. Several pathogens, including SARS-CoV-2, subvert ISGylation by encoding deISGylating enzymes. However, the direct targets and physiological consequences of coronaviral deISGylation remain poorly defined. Here, we genetically ablated the deISGylating activity of the SARS-CoV-2-encoded papain-like protease (PLpro) and found that loss of deISGylation boosted innate immune activation, attenuated viral replication, and promoted viral clearance in human cells and mice. Metabolomics, ISGylome proteomics, and functional analyses revealed that PLpro deISGylation relieved metabolic restriction of virus infection by directly regulating the activity of key enzymes controlling glycolysis, the pentose phosphate pathway, and redox homeostasis. These findings provide fundamental insight into how reversible ISGylation regulates immunity and metabolic processes at the molecular level and highlight viral deISGylation as a major strategy to overcome host immunometabolic defenses.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Diabetic retinopathy (DR) requires robust biomarkers. To overcome the limitations of bulk sequencing, we integrated single-cell eQTL mapping with Mendelian randomization to identify causal cell populations and genes. CD8 Teff cells were expanded in peripheral blood, showing elevation in non-DR diabetes and reaching maximal levels in DR. Mendelian randomization analysis implicated IL2RB as a putative causal marker, with the lead eQTL SNP rs3184504 demonstrating strong association (p = 8.5467 × 10-18). Colocalization analysis with DR GWAS and validation in bulk data reinforced this signal. In tissues, CellChat predicted more interactions for IL2RB+ compared to IL2RB- CD8 Teff cells, including IL16-CD4 with macrophages and NAMPT interactions with both ITGA5+ITGB1 and INSR on endothelial cells, implicating immune-vascular regulation. Together, these findings nominate IL2RB as a biomarker and therapeutic target while clarifying mechanisms underlying DR.
Microglia play a key role in the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and their increased heterogeneity likely affects disease progression. We previously identified distinct microglial signatures that were enriched in AD donors and associated with amyloid and tau, respectively. Here we generated a snRNAseq dataset from postmortem control and AD cases and analyzed alterations in cell-cell communication pathways that might be relevant to AD pathophysiology. One signaling pathway perturbed in AD cases involved SPP1, and while this pathway was also present in control samples, microglia-microglia SPP1 signaling was restricted to AD donors. Further analyses within microglia-microglia signaling predict AD-specific induction of GAS6-AXL signaling (from inflammatory and ribosomal microglia), and SPP1-ITGAV/ITGB5 signaling (from disease-associated and inflammatory microglia, among others). Together, these findings might in part explain the increased microglia phagocytic profile described in AD. RNAscope confirmed enrichment of SPP1 expressing microglia near amyloid plaques in AD brain tissue samples. These data indicate altered cellular communications between microglia in the AD brain.© 2026 The Author(s). GLIA published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Ischemic stroke (IS) is a cerebrovascular disease with high mortality and disability rates, currently lacking effective therapeutic targets. The STING inhibitor SN-011 shows potential in IS treatment, but its mechanism of action remains unclear. This study aims to explore the key molecular mechanisms of SN-011 in treating IS through bioinformatics approaches. IS transcriptome datasets were analyzed to identify differentially expressed genes. Mendelian randomization using brain eQTL and IS-GWAS data identified genes with causal relationships to IS. Single-cell transcriptome, pseudo-time trajectory, intercellular communication, and transcription factor regulatory network analyzes were performed. Molecular docking and DARTS-WB assay validated SN-011 binding to transcription factors. Transcriptomic analysis identified 77 intersecting genes. Mendelian randomization revealed ADGRE5 as a protective gene for IS (OR < 1), significantly downregulated in venous endothelial cells (vECs) during disease progression. Cell communication analysis showed ADGRE5-high vECs interact with immune, glial, and stromal cells via LAMININ (Lamb2-CD44, Lamb2-Itga6+Itgb1, Lamb2-Dag1 pair) and JAM signaling pathways. Transcription factor analysis identified JUNB as a negative regulator of ADGRE5. Molecular docking (-6.8 kcal/mol) combined with an in vitro DARTS-WB assay confirmed the interaction between SN-011 and JUNB. In OGD-induced endothelial cell injury models, SN-011 suppressed JUNB expression, restored ADGRE5 expression inhibited by JUNB overexpression, reversed the downregulation of LAMB2 and CD44, and reduced the expression of the pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-6 and IL-1β. Notably, blockade of LAMB2 largely abolished these protective effects, indicating that the anti-inflammatory and endothelial-protective activities of SN-011 are mediated, at least in part, through restoration of the LAMB2-CD44 signaling axis. ADGRE5 downregulation in vECs may impair vascular repair by disrupting LAMININ-mediated intercellular communication. SN-011 may exert neuroprotective effects by targeting JUNB to upregulate ADGRE5 expression and restore the vEC-centered cellular communication network, providing a theoretical basis for SN-011 as a potential IS therapeutic.© 2026 The Author(s). Chemical Biology & Drug Design published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
EGFR-mutant lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is typically associated with an immunosuppressive tumor immune microenvironment (TIME) and poor responses to PD-1 blockade. However, the contribution of drug-tolerant persister cells (DTPs) to immunotherapy resistance remains unclear. We hypothesized that DTPs-derived chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 20 (CCL20) promotes immune evasion and impairs PD-1-based immunotherapy in EGFR-mutant. To test this, humanized NSG mice engrafted with EGFR-mutant H1975 cells and human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (n = 6 per group) were administered with anti-PD-1 (200 µg) and/or anti-CCL20 (20 µg) every other day for a total of four doses. The combination reduced mean tumor volume by 65% compared with control treatment (p < 0.01). Single-cell RNA sequencing showed that cotreatment selectively suppressed CCL20 expression in DTP clusters and activated interferon-α and -γ signaling (ISG15, CMPK2). Multiplex immunofluorescence revealed combination treatment increased infiltration of M1-like macrophages, plasmacytoid dendritic cells, and memory B cells, alongside spatial segregation of CD4+ regulatory T cells (p < 0.05). These findings identify DTPs-derived CCL20 as a mediator of immunosuppressive TIME and support combined CCL20/PD-1 blockade as a potential therapeutic strategy for EGFR-mutant lung adenocarcinoma.© 2026 The Author(s). MedComm published by Sichuan International Medical Exchange & Promotion Association (SCIMEA) and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42538204
Current UK guidelines recommend measurement of symphyseal fundal height and measurement of maternal blood pressure and urinalysis, with the aim of detecting women at increased risk of fetal growth restriction (FGR) and pre-eclampsia. Between 2008 and 2013, we conducted a prospective cohort study recruiting 4512 nulliparous women at the Rosie Hospital, Cambridge, where we performed serial ultrasonic imaging and serial blood sampling and generated a novel screening test for pre-eclampsia and FGR. The method involved measuring the ratio of two placental biomarkers (soluble fms-like tyrosine kinase receptor-1 and placenta growth factor) at ~36 weeks of gestational age (wkGA) and combining the result with maternal characteristics and ultrasonic imaging. Women who screened positive had a ~50% risk of a composite outcome, consisting of pre-eclampsia±delivery of a baby with a birth weight <3rd percentile for sex and gestational age±perinatal morbidity or death. It is plausible that screening and intervention using this method might improve pregnancy outcome.Nulliparous women with an apparently normal singleton pregnancy will be recruited at their dating ultrasound scan. Blood will be obtained at this visit, at their anomaly scan (20 wkGA), and at two research appointments (28 wkGA and 36 wkGA) when research ultrasound scans will be performed. Blood for DNA will be obtained from the father of the baby where possible and the placenta will be sampled following birth. At 36 wkGA, women will be consented for participation in the randomised controlled trial (RCT) element of the study and their risk of term pre-eclampsia and FGR will be assessed using the novel approach. Women who screen high-risk will then be randomly allocated to either having the result revealed or masked. Women randomised to having the result revealed will be offered early delivery and/or enhanced monitoring. Where the result is masked, there will be no communication between the research team and the participant, and she will continue to receive routine care at the Rosie Hospital. The primary outcome is a composite of pre-eclampsia, FGR and perinatal morbidity and mortality. The study will also generate data and biological samples to support future research in novel screening methods and disease mechanisms.The study received ethical approval from the East of England Research Ethics Committee. All women provide written informed consent to participate in the cohort. Women provide a second written informed consent to participate in the RCT. The study results will be disseminated by presentation at international conferences and publication in peer reviewed journals.ISRCTN1218142.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY. Published by BMJ Group.
Maternal obesity compromises placental development and fetal growth, yet the mechanisms remain unknown. Here, we investigated the impact of high-fat diet (HFD) on placental energy homeostasis in mice. Female C57BL/6 mice were fed a control diet or an HFD, with a subset receiving FerroTerminator-1 (FOT1) to modulate metabolic dysfunction. At embryonic day 18.5, maternal metabolic status, fetal growth, placental morphology, energy metabolism, and oxidative stress were assessed. HFD-fed dams developed dyslipidemia and insulin resistance, and exhibited placental lipid accumulation and impaired labyrinth zone development, resulting in reduced fetal weight and altered fetal liver lipid and glycogen contents. The placenta showed mitochondrial damage, accompanied by reduced ATP content, mitochondrial membrane potential, mitochondrial DNA copy number, and suppressed respiratory chain complex activities. Placental metabolomic profiling showed that HFD was associated with altered levels of metabolites in glycolysis and oxidative phosphorylation pathways. These alterations coincided with placental iron-associated oxidative stress, evidenced by elevated non-heme iron, lipid peroxidation products, upregulation of transferrin receptor (TFRC) and lysophosphatidylcholine acyltransferase 3 (LPCAT3), downregulation of ferritin heavy chain 1 (FTH1) and solute carrier family 40 member 1 (SLC40A1), a reduced glutathione to oxidized glutathione ratio, and impaired glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) expression and activity. Meanwhile, FOT1 administration attenuated placental oxidative stress, partially restored ATP production and mitochondrial function, and improved fetal growth in HFD-fed mice. Collectively, maternal obesity was associated with placental iron-associated oxidative stress and bioenergetic impairment, which may contribute to reduced placental efficiency and FGR.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for the Study of Reproduction. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Grassland productivity stability underpins the sustained functioning of arid and semi-arid ecosystems yet identifying how regional stability emerges across local communities remains challenging because stability is multidimensional, scale- dependent, and is shaped by seasonal growth processes.Here, we use satellite-derived gross primary productivity (GPP) data from 2000 to 2018 to investigate how local stability, spatial synchrony, drought resistance, recovery, and fast-growing phase characteristics jointly regulate regional stability across meadow, typical, and desert steppes in Inner Mongolia and across three observational grains (0.1°, 0.5°, and 1.0°).We found that regional stability was governed primarily by local stability rather than spatial synchrony, suggesting that the stabilizing role of spatial insurance was limited under broad-scale climatic constraints. At the local scale, temporal stability was more closely aligned with resistance than with recovery, while resistance and recovery showed a persistent trade-off. Mechanistically, growth rate during the fast-growing phase (FGR) linked environmental variation to stability by reflecting how efficiently vegetation converted favorable hydrothermal conditions into mean GPP. Higher FGR strengthened local temporal stability mainly through higher mean GPP, while its relationships with resistance and recovery depended on productivity variability and post-drought resource conditions. Observational grain further modified the expression of stability and the detectability of relationships among stability dimensions.These findings identify fast seasonal growth as a key pathway through which favorable hydrothermal windows are translated into local stability, with consequences for regional stability across observational grains. They also suggest that grassland monitoring and management should consider the spatial grain at which stability is assessed.Copyright © 2026 Nie, Yuan, Zhang, Shi, Zhang and Wang.
The skeletal dysplasias pose a particular diagnostic challenge due to their rarity, phenotypic overlap, and the dynamic evolution of sonographic features across gestation.To evaluate the relative prevalence of skeletal dysplasia (SD) and delineate antenatal ultrasound markers aiding diagnosis of SD in cases with short femur.The records of targeted ultrasound of fetuses with suspected SD from 2021 to 2025 were reviewed. Femur length was expressed as standard deviations below mean and associated visceral and skeletal abnormalities were recorded among diagnosed and undiagnosed cases.A total of 76 cases were fully followed; the mean gestational age was 28.2 ± 6.6 weeks. Majority of the cases were detected in the late second or early third trimester. More than two-third of them were suspected to have SD, whereas the rest were either FGR or constitutionally small fetus. The ultrasound findings guided us to distinguish FGR and constitutionally small fetuses from SD cases. It was a valuable tool in determining lethality. The molecular testing could be done in only one third of the suspected SD cases. Apart from ultrasound findings such as severely short femur, polydactyly, poor mineralization and fractures, the bending of femur, narrow thorax, micrognathia, and visceral anomalies helped in pinning the clinical diagnosis of SD in many cases. The FL/AC and TC/AC ratio individually had less sensitivity and high specificity for the prediction of lethality, but had 100% sensitivity for lethality prediction if both were abnormal. Fetal growth restriction was diagnosed in 17/76 (22.4%), familial short stature in 4/76 (5.3%). SD was suspected in 55/76 (72.3%). Among them, the genetically diagnosed, clinically suspected, and undiagnosed cases were 19/55 (34.5%), 24/55 (43.6%), and 12/55 (21.8%). Bent femur was most common anomaly (29/55, 52.7%), followed by narrow thorax (20/55, 36.4%). Renal anomaly was the commonest visceral anomaly (5/55, 9.1%). The diagnosis of SD was made in 40/76 (52.6%). Ciliopathies were the largest group (12/40, 40%), followed by osteogenesis imperfecta (11/40, 27.5%).The study highlights the importance of structured ultrasound assessment and pattern recognition in skeletal dysplasia along with genetic testing for improved clinical decision-making and parental counseling.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
S100B protein is a biomarker associated with central nervous system (CNS) injury following hypoxic-ischemic events. Measurement of S100B levels in umbilical cord blood may provide a noninvasive means of identifying newborns exposed to perinatal hypoxia related to fetal growth restriction (FGR) immediately after birth. Early detection of infants at increased risk of hypoxia-related CNS injury could facilitate closer surveillance, prompt diagnostic evaluation, and timely implementation of appropriate interventions, potentially improving long-term neurodevelopmental outcomes.This study investigates two groups of full-term pregnancies: a study group with prenatally diagnosed late FGR, and a control group with normal fetal growth. Following delivery, cord blood samples from both groups will be analyzed for S100B protein concentrations, pH, base excess (BE), and lactate levels. Additionally, fetal blood flow parameters in the umbilical artery (UA), uterine arteries (UtA), ductus venosus (DV), and middle cerebral artery (MCA) will be assessed via ultrasound within 48 hours before delivery. This study aims to compare S100B protein concentrations in umbilical cord blood between the two groups and evaluate its correlations with fetal Doppler parameters, pH, BE, and lactate levels in cord blood gas analysis. Additionally, it will evaluate the potential utility of S100B protein concentration as a biomarker associated with perinatal hypoxic stress in FGR-affected neonates.The study received approval from the Bioethics Committee of the Institute of Mother and Child in Warsaw (Decision No. 13/2024, dated 21 March 2024). The findings will be submitted for publication in peer-reviewed journals specializing in neonatology, pediatrics, obstetrics, and perinatology. Additionally, abstracts will be submitted to relevant national and international conferences.The study is registered at ClinicalTrials.gov (Identifier: NCT06893926).Copyright: © 2026 Drozdowska-Szymczak et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Designing graphene-based metal-free electrocatalysts is crucial due to their reduced costs, tunable molecular structures, superior electronic conductivity and substantial tolerance under fluctuating pH conditions. In this report, we have covalently functionalized fluoride graphite with n-octyl amine (OA), n-dodecyl amine (DDA), and n-octadecyl amine (ODA) via a facile nucleophilic substitution reaction to prepare three different N-alkylated fluorographene materials, OA-FGr, DDA-FGr, and ODA-FGr, respectively. Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy, X-ray diffraction (XRD), Raman spectroscopy, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) analysis, and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) have collectively confirmed their successful formation by providing information about their functionality, stacking, chemical interactions, morphology and textural properties. Moreover, electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectroscopy has been used to verify not only the functionalization but also the electrocatalytic properties. The synthesized materials have been utilized to prepare working electrodes to record linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) curves under acidic conditions (0.5 M H2SO4) and in an inert atmosphere at a scan rate of 5 mV s-1. ODA-FGr has demonstrated superior performance to its counterparts (OA-FGr and DDA-FGr), with an overpotential (η) of 530 mV at 10 mA cm-2 and a Tafel slope of 80 mV dec-1. Moreover, ODA-FGr has shown excellent durability, stability under accelerated test conditions (a scan rate of 100 mV s-1 and 2000 cycles) and reproducibility. Notably, the positive role of the alkyl chain length of amine molecules and their covalent functionalization is observed in improving HER performance and is found to be related to their amphiphilic nature and fluorine-to-nitrogen (F/N) ratio.This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry.
Atherosclerosis (AS) is a chronic inflammatory vascular disease characterized by lipid accumulation, immune activation, and plaque formation. This study investigated the anti-atherosclerotic effects of Lentinan (LNT) and explored its potential macrophage-associated mechanisms. In high-fat diet-fed ApoE⁻/⁻ mice, LNT markedly attenuated aortic plaque formation, lipid deposition, serum pro-inflammatory cytokine levels, and dyslipidemia, indicating a protective effect against AS progression. Integrated target screening and transcriptomic analyses identified HCK and GUSB as key candidate targets associated with the response to LNT. Both genes were upregulated in atherosclerotic tissues and were further assessed in an independent human dataset. Experimental validation in ApoE⁻/⁻ mouse aortic tissues showed that LNT reduced HCK and GUSB expression, while single-cell transcriptomic analysis indicated that both genes were predominantly enriched in macrophage populations within atherosclerotic lesions. In ox-LDL-induced RAW264.7 foam cells, LNT decreased intracellular lipid accumulation and downregulated HCK and GUSB expression, further supporting a macrophage-related protective mechanism. In addition, targeted metabolomic analysis suggested that LNT reshaped amino acid metabolism, which may contribute to improvement of the inflammatory and immunometabolic microenvironment in AS. Molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations further indicated potential interactions between LNT and HCK/GUSB. Overall, these findings suggest that LNT attenuates experimental atherosclerosis by regulating macrophage-associated HCK/GUSB expression, suppressing foam cell formation, and modulating amino acid metabolic remodeling.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
The objective of this study is to evaluate, in fetuses with early-onset fetal growth-restricted (FGR) requiring delivery before 30 weeks, the relationship between the longitudinal Doppler changes and severe morbidity and mortality.A retrospective cohort was constructed of singleton pregnancies between January 2013 and December 2021 with antenatal suspicion of FGR, born before 30 weeks in a single tertiary center in Barcelona (Hospital Sant Joan de Déu and Hospital Clínic). A total of 103 cases of FGR fetuses were included. Accurate anatomical examination, fetal biometry, and prenatal Doppler ultrasound examination were performed by experienced operators. The association between the intervals from diagnosis to abnormal Doppler and severe adverse outcome was evaluated with Cox and logistic regression, adjusted for gestational age at onset and preeclampsia. The primary outcome was a composite of severe adverse outcomes defined as mortality or severe neurological morbidity.Among the 83 pregnancies with ductus venosus (DV) pulsatility index (PI) ≤95th centile at admission, the median time to a DV PI >95th centile was 16 days in pregnancies presenting severe adverse outcomes and 20 days in those without (p = 0.007). Among the 64 pregnancies with a positive umbilical artery (UA) end-diastolic velocity (EDV), the median time to be absent/reversed was 11 days in pregnancies presenting severe adverse outcome and 14 days in those without (p = 0.016). Among the 86 pregnancies with nonreversed UA EDV, the median time to reversed flow was 18 days in pregnancies destined to present severe outcomes and 26 days in those without (p = 0.001).The prediction of mortality or severe morbidity could be better achieved with longitudinal Doppler assessment in FGR fetuses born before 30 weeks.© 2026 The Author(s). Acta Obstetricia et Gynecologica Scandinavica published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Nordic Federation of Societies of Obstetrics and Gynecology (NFOG).
Considering the shared physiological mechanisms between Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD), it is plausible that certain compounds may exert therapeutic effects on both neurological disorders. This study aimed to employ in silico techniques to investigate the pharmacological mechanisms of huperzine A (HA) as an alternative treatment for PD and AD.Molecular targets of HA and genes associated with AD and PD were identified from public databases. Gene Ontology analysis, metabolic pathway analysis, and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network construction were performed to identify shared molecular targets. Molecular docking was performed to assess HA affinity for hub proteins and to compare it with that of drugs used to treat AD and PD.The results suggested that HA interacts with 77 molecular targets common to both diseases. Enrichment analysis revealed that proteins from these targets were involved in biological functions, such as serotonin and amine binding. Hub proteins (SRC, TP53, AKT1, and CASP3) were identified from the PPI network. Furthermore, molecular docking simulations showed favorable binding of HA to the hub proteins and adequate binding to the targets of standard drugs (MAOB and ACHE). On the other hand, molecular dynamics analyses were performed to compare the binding characteristics of HA with those of the control targets.HA may modulate SRC, CASP3, and AKT1, suggesting a pleiotropic mechanism underlying the association between AD and PD. These computational findings provide a rational basis for experimental validation by modulating signaling pathways implicated in inflammatory processes and inhibiting enzymes involved in neurotransmitter degradation.This study contributes to the understanding of the neuroprotective activity of HA in AD and PD. However, further in vitro and in vivo investigations are required to confirm the dual therapeutic potential of HA in the treatment of AD and PD.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Zika virus (ZIKV) causes congenital disease and neurological complications, yet no approved vaccines or antivirals are available. Integrin β4 (ITGB4) has been identified as an entry receptor for ZIKV.Recombinant human ITGB4 ectodomain was expressed using a baculovirus-insect cell system and used to immunize BALB/c mice. Hybridoma screening identified monoclonal antibody 7C3. Binding affinity to ITGB4 was determined by biolayer interferometry. Epitope relationships between 7C3 and the previously reported anti-ITGB4 antibody 13H10 were assessed by competitive binding assay. Antiviral activity was evaluated in four cell lines by RT-qPCR quantification of cell-associated ZIKV RNA after antibody pretreatment and viral challenge.7C3 bound ITGB4 with picomolar affinity (KD=30.9 pM) and high specificity. Competitive binding showed that 7C3 and 13H10 (KD=7.98 pM) recognize non-overlapping epitopes on ITGB4. Pretreatment with 7C3 significantly reduced cell-associated ZIKV RNA in all four cell lines compared with PBS and isotype controls.A second, independently generated anti-ITGB4 antibody with picomolar affinity can robustly block ZIKV entry across multiple cell types, including SY5Y neuroblastoma cells relevant to congenital neuropathology. The non-overlapping epitopes of 7C3 and 13H10 suggest potential for combination strategies to enhance ITGB4 blockade. High germline identity of the 7C3 variable regions (VH=94.46%, VL=95.82%) supports future humanization. These findings establish 7C3 as a host-directed antiviral candidate and provide a basis for ITGB4-targeting approaches against congenital ZIKV disease.Copyright © 2026 Han, Li, Yang, Gong, Shen, Song, Wan, Wang and Cong.
The tumor microbiota critically shapes responses to immunotherapy; however, the mechanisms by which specific microbial species drive immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) resistance in gastric cancer (GC) remain poorly defined.Streptococcus anginosus enrichment was assessed in ICB-unresponsive GC tissues from patients and multiple preclinical models. Orthotopic, subcutaneous, and germ-free mono-colonized mouse models were employed to evaluate the impact of S. anginosus on antitumor immunity and programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) blockade efficacy. Integrated multi-omics analyses were performed to identify microbiota-derived metabolites, and mechanistic studies investigated their effects on CD8+ T-cell function. Therapeutic targeting of integrin α2 (ITGA2) was tested to assess restoration of cytotoxic T-cell activity and sensitization to PD-1 blockade.S. anginosus was markedly enriched in ICB-non-responsive GC tissues. Colonization with S. anginosus impaired antitumor immunity and promoted PD-1 blockade resistance by suppressing CD8+ T-cell effector function. Multi-omics analyses identified kynurenic acid (KA) as a microbiota-derived metabolite selectively enriched following S. anginosus colonization. KA induced ITGA2 expression and inhibited an mTOR-dependent signaling cascade, sustaining cathepsin V expression and attenuating interferon-γ and granzyme B production in CD8+ T cells. Therapeutic inhibition of ITGA2 restored CD8+ T-cell cytotoxicity and sensitized tumors to PD-1 blockade.A microbiota-metabolite-immune signaling axis involving S. anginosus, KA, and ITGA2 drives immunotherapy resistance in GC. Therapeutic inhibition of ITGA2 represents a potential strategy to overcome ICB resistance in GC.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Estrogen deficiency-induced osteoporosis is largely driven by excessive osteoclast formation and bone resorption, but the direct pharmacological targets of flavonoid derivatives in osteoclast differentiation remain unclear. Here, we investigated the anti-osteoclastogenic activity and molecular mechanism of 2'-O-Galloylhyperin (2'-O-GH), a structurally defined flavonoid derivative. The effects of 2'-O-GH on RANKL-induced osteoclastogenesis were evaluated in bone marrow-derived macrophages and RAW264.7 cells using TRAP staining, qPCR, western blotting, F-actin staining, immunofluorescence, and bone resorption assays. Target identification was performed using a biotinylated 2'-O-GH probe coupled with pull-down and LC-MS/MS analysis, followed by molecular docking and microscale thermophoresis. In vivo efficacy was assessed in an ovariectomy-induced osteoporosis mouse model. 2'-O-GH inhibited RANKL-induced formation of TRAP-positive multinucleated osteoclasts without evident cytotoxicity at effective concentrations. It downregulated osteoclast-related markers, including NFATc1, c-FOS, SRC, ACP5, ATP6V0D2, and CTSK, and impaired F-actin ring formation and bone resorption. Mechanistically, 2'-O-GH restrained RANKL-induced NF-κB p65 nuclear translocation. Chemical proteomics identified MAP3K11/MLK3 as a candidate target, and molecular docking and microscale thermophoresis supported its direct interaction with 2'-O-GH. 2'-O-GH further suppressed RANKL-induced phosphorylation of MLK3 and IKKα/β, whereas MLK3 overexpression partially rescued NF-κB activation and osteoclast differentiation. In ovariectomized mice, 2'-O-GH attenuated bone loss without obvious effects on body or uterine weight. These findings identify MLK3 as a pharmacological target of 2'-O-GH and suggest that 2'-O-GH suppresses osteoclastogenesis through the MLK3/IKK/NF-κB axis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Myocardial fibrosis (MF) is a pathological process often triggered by chronic inflammation and pressure overload. This study aimed to investigate the therapeutic potential of ranitidine, a histamine H2 receptor antagonist, on MF and explore its underlying mechanisms, focusing on the FAK/Src pathway and inflammatory responses.A mouse model of MF was established by transverse aortic constriction (TAC). Cardiac function was assessed by echocardiography. Histopathological changes, collagen deposition, mast cell infiltration, and the expression of histamine and its H2 receptor were examined. In vitro, NIH/3T3 fibroblasts were stimulated with TGF-β1 to induce fibrotic activation. The effects of ranitidine on collagen synthesis, the expression of fibrotic markers (α-SMA, Collagen I/III), and the phosphorylation of FAK/Src were evaluated.Ranitidine treatment significantly improved TAC-induced cardiac dysfunction and attenuated myocardial fibrosis, as evidenced by reduced collagen deposition. It also markedly decreased mast cell infiltration and the expression of histamine and H2 receptor in cardiac tissues. In TGF-β1-stimulated fibroblasts, ranitidine dose-dependently reduced collagen synthesis, downregulated α-SMA, Collagen I, and Collagen III expression, and suppressed the activation of the FAK/Src pathway.Our findings demonstrate that ranitidine ameliorates pressure overload-induced myocardial fibrosis, likely in association with attenuation of histamine/H2 receptor-related inflammatory responses and reduced FAK/Src activation. This study suggests the repurposing potential of ranitidine for treating MF.Copyright © 2026 Yang, Zhang, Zhao, He, Zheng, Chen, Hu, Long and Chen.
Fragile X syndrome (FXS), the most common inherited form of intellectual disability and the leading monogenic cause of autism, results from the loss of the fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP). Dysregulated translation of FMRP target mRNAs is believed to underlie the aberrant synaptic plasticity observed in FXS. Identification of these targets is critical for elucidating disease mechanisms and developing therapeutic strategies.We confirmed the interaction between FMRP and FYN mRNA by RNA immunoprecipitation in HEK293 and SH-SY5Y cells and assessed FYN translational regulation via polyribosome profiling in FXS and control lymphoblastoid cells. The role of FYN in ERK hyperactivation was examined in FXS lymphoblastoid cells, FMR1-knockdown SH-SY5Y cells, and dfmr1 mutant flies. Additionally, we tested whether reducing or inhibiting Src64B, a Drosophila Src family kinase with homology to human FYN, could rescue neural and behavioral defects in dfmr1 mutants.FMRP bound to FYN mRNA and suppressed its translation without affecting mRNA stability. Phosphorylated ERK1/2 levels were markedly elevated in FXS lymphoblastoid cells, and this hyperactivation was largely reversed by either the Src family kinase inhibitor PP2 or siRNA-mediated FYN knockdown, supporting an important role for FYN in ERK1/2 dysregulation. Similar changes were observed in FMR1-knockdown SH-SY5Y cells, with increased FYN expression and ERK1/2 phosphorylation, and PP2 treatment attenuated the abnormal ERK1/2 phosphorylation. Furthermore, genetic or pharmacological suppression of Src64B restored ERK signaling and rescued mushroom body defects and memory deficits in dfmr1 mutants.This study identifies FYN as a novel translational target of FMRP and suggests that its upregulation may contribute to hyperactivation of ERK1/2 signaling in FXS.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Tissue regeneration after injury is crucial for restoring epithelial structure and function. Upon damage, a regenerative microenvironment forms that provides signalling cues that stimulate stem cell proliferation to replace lost cells. While this process is well understood, how stem cells themselves sense damage, translate this input into their proliferation and shape the regenerative microenvironment remains unclear. Here we show that Draper-Src-Shark signalling in Drosophila intestinal stem cells (ISCs) recognises tissue damage by sensing externalised phosphatidylserine on dying midgut epithelial cells and is required for STAT activation in ISCs to promote their proliferation. Unlike its role in phagocytosis, Draper in ISCs does not promote the clearance of these apoptotic enterocytes but rather facilitates ISC proliferation in the presence of damaged enterocytes. Moreover, Draper-Src-Shark signalling in progenitors regulates STAT transcriptional activity in the adjacent visceral muscle, indicating that progenitors can shape the regenerative microenvironment beyond tissue boundaries. As Src and STAT are also activated in the mammalian intestinal epithelium after damage and tumour formation, these findings may help develop therapies for tissue regeneration, inflammatory diseases and cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42556071 is a review article
This study aimed to identify candidate genes and genetic markers affecting milk production traits in dual-purpose cattle, providing a foundation of data for marker-assisted breeding. Cis-eQTL analysis was performed on 83 Xinjiang brown cattle and 80 Chinese Simmental cattle using whole-genome resequencing and RNA-seq data derived from blood samples. Candidate genes were prioritized by overlapping the eGenes with genes from previous selective signature analyses. In Xinjiang brown cattle, 293,758 cis-eQTLs regulating 1,720 genes were identified, whereas 78,735 cis-eQTLs regulating 569 genes were found in Chinese Simmental cattle. By overlapping the eGenes with candidate genes from previous selective signature analyses, we prioritized 103 genes (e.g., PPP2R3A, GNAI1, and ITGB4) in Xinjiang brown cattle and 26 candidate genes (e.g., MAPK10 and HPSE) in Chinese Simmental cattle as potentially related to milk production traits. These results provide valuable data for the development of new dairy lines in Xinjiang brown cattle and for future genomic selection in dairy-oriented Chinese Simmental cattle.Copyright © 2026 Ma, Li, Zhang, Wang, Ma, Huang, Chen and Xu.
Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) has been an anti-cancer protein target for three decades due to its over-activation in various cancers; however, direct STAT3 inhibitors have not reached the market. In this study, a series of novel hydrazone derivatives were designed, synthesized, and characterized. The most promising compound P42 was found to selectively target the STAT3 SH2 domain over the DNA-binding domain, as suggested by the results from fluorescence polarization assays. The GI50 values after 72 h of P42 treatment were determined to be 0.85-5 μM in STAT3-overexpressing pancreatic and colorectal cancer cell lines harboring KRAS mutations (MIA PaCa-2, DLD-1 and HCT 116). Western blot analyses showed that P42 significantly inhibited phosphorylated STAT3 levels without affecting total STAT3 and its upstream kinases JAK2 and SRC. P42 demonstrated significant autophagy-associated cell death rather than apoptosis or necrosis in flow cytometry analyses, with increases in LC3II/I ratios and decreases in p62 levels. Cancer stemness potential was significantly abrogated with P42 as shown in colony formation assay and decreases in epithelial-mesenchymal transition/stemness markers SNAIL and ZEB1 levels. Molecular docking further supported a plausible binding mode within the STAT3 SH2 domain for P42, and SwissADME prediction suggested its favorable drug-likeness properties. Taken together, P42 warrants future anti-cancer drug development.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Postoperative corneal haze, driven by aberrant TGF-β1-mediated fibrosis, remains a formidable clinical challenge following refractive surgery. Current steroid therapies are compromised by severe side effects, including steroid-induced glaucoma. Herein, we report a nanoparticle (CCB@TET) comprising a tetrandrine-loaded bovine serum albumin core and a 3-carboxyphenylboronic acid-modified chitosan shell for corneal haze prevention. The optimized nanoplatform (202 nm, +35 mV) exhibited high drug loading (39.25%) and sustained release. The shell coating endowed dual transport mechanisms: mucoadhesion via electrostatic interaction and reversible tight junction opening via occludin downregulation, facilitating enhanced transcorneal permeation. In vitro, CCB@TET suppressed human corneal stromal cell migration and myofibroblast transdifferentiation without compromising epithelial wound healing. In a rabbit transepithelial photorefractive keratectomy haze model, topical CCB@TET outperformed free tetrandrine and clinical fluorometholone, while avoiding steroid-induced intraocular pressure elevation. Mechanistically, CCB@TET was found to suppress the TGF-β1/Smad signaling cascade through ITGB6 downregulation, as revealed by transcriptomic screening and biochemical validation. This study presents a rationally designed nanoplatform for safe and effective prevention of postoperative corneal haze.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Feedback mechanisms regulate immune activation and prevent excessive tissue damage. TNFAIP3, also known as A20, serves as a crucial brake on inflammation, and mutations or haploinsufficiency of this gene are linked to diseases characterized by inappropriate inflammation. In this study, we document highly conserved patterns of cell type-specific gene expression, regulation, and induction of TNFAIP3, and employ transgenic and gnotobiotic mouse models to investigate how adaptive immunity and the gut microbiome contribute to pathology arising from impaired A20 function. Contrary to our expectations, systemic inflammation resulting from Tnfaip3 deficiency in CD11c (Itgax)-expressing cells developed independently of autoreactive antibodies, B cells, and T cells. The microbiome also proved dispensable for disease manifestations in these models. These findings suggest that in diseases caused by insufficient TNFAIP3/A20 activity, autoantibodies may reflect a downstream consequence of disease rather than a causative driver, suggesting autoinflammatory rather than autoimmune pathology. These insights carry therapeutic implications for the treatment of TNFAIP3-associated diseases.Copyright © 2026 Van Damme, Hertens, Sichien, Van der Borght, Van Moorleghem, De Prijck, Klarenbeek, Louagie, Lammens, Vanhee, Vanhove, De Bleser, Van Laecke, Dendooven, Hammad, Vereecke, Elewaut, van Loo and Lambrecht.
Staphylococcus infection-associated glomerulonephritis (SAGN) has emerged as the leading cause of infection-related glomerulonephritis (IRGN) in the Western subcontinents, but pathogenesis remains poorly understood in the absence of animal models and detailed molecular mechanisms.To dissect the complex underlying immunopathology, we analyzed formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded kidney biopsy tissues from three patients with SAGN and one normal control kidney (NCK) using single-cell spatial transcriptomics (analyzing a total of 3,993 cell-specific transcriptomes). The SAGN biopsies showed diffuse endocapillary hypercellularity with focal crescents. Following annotation of various cell types, we constructed cell communication networks using CellChat to identify ligand-receptor interactions in normal and SAGN kidneys.Secreted phosphoprotein 1 (SPP1/osteopontin) emerged as the most enriched signaling network in SAGN with markedly increased autocrine and paracrine SPP1-CD44 activity among tubular segments and parietal epithelial cells (PECs). In contrast, SPP1-integrin signaling was mainly observed in healthy control kidneys. Consistent with previous reports, complement pathway activation was detected exclusively in diseased kidneys, with PECs as principal signal receivers, suggesting the potential role in crescent formation. Transcripts for C2, C3, CD55, Factor B, and Factor D showed significant upregulation in SAGN. In contrast, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), angiopoietin-like proteins (ANG PTL), and progranulin/granulin networks exhibited decreased communication probabilities in SAGN versus NCK, suggesting the suppression of protective angiogenic and anti-inflammatory signaling. Immunofluorescence staining for SPP1 showed increased staining in renal tubular segments in SAGN biopsies, supporting our transcriptomic data.SPP1 and complement pathways appear to drive pro-inflammatory responses, while protective VEGF signaling is compromised, providing potential therapeutic targets for this disease.Copyright © 2026 Karaiskos, Santana-Quintero, Bott, Paul, Brodsky, Ayoub, Parikh, Rovin, Nadasdy, Nakhasi, Gannavaram and Satoskar.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42527175
In this study, we modeled gene expression profile data from Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) and healthy cases. At first, the GEO-GSE9476 dataset was processed, and a total of 341 genes were identified as differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in patients, and 599 DEGs in healthy individuals. Gene Ontology and pathway analysis on DEGs led to the identification of 5 Transcription Factors for patients and 3 for healthy cases. Analysis of the respective metabolic pathways revealed a common region in the metabolic pathway between AML and Tuberculosis (TB) that confirmed the validity of our procedure due to the consistency with similar reports. Upon PPI network analysis, Hub genes and three modules containing 41 up-regulated and down-regulated genes in AML patients were identified. Survival analysis on these genes results in reducing the number of identified effective genes into 3 upregulated (ITGAM, ITGAL and CD163) and 5 downregulated genes (MCM2, MCM3, RFC4, RFC5 and FEN1). Finally, drug sensitivity analysis was performed on these genes demonstrating complexity in drug-resistance due to the pattern of gene expression. This knowledge could potentially enable personalized treatment approaches based on individual patient responses due to the epigenetics and life style which affect gene expression pattern.Copyright: © 2026 Aghajan et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
BackgroundMesenchymal stem cell (MSC)-derived endothelial-like cells exhibit enhanced angiogenic potential compared with undifferentiated MSCs. However, the role of N6-methyladenosine (m6A) RNA modification in MSC endothelial differentiation remains unclear.MethodsHuman bone marrow-derived MSCs were isolated and induced toward an endothelial phenotype using cytokine-enriched medium. Endothelial differentiation was evaluated using flow cytometry, western blotting, immunofluorescence staining, tube formation assays, and Dil-Ac-LDL uptake assays. MeRIP-seq and RNA-seq were performed to profile transcriptome-wide m6A methylation and gene expression changes. Bioinformatics analyses, including GO enrichment, KEGG pathway analysis, and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network construction, were conducted to identify key regulatory genes and pathways.ResultsFollowing induction, MSCs exhibited endothelial characteristics, including increased expression of CD31 and CD34, enhanced tube formation ability, and increased Dil-Ac-LDL uptake. Transcriptome-wide analysis identified 16,355 differentially methylated peaks and 2,732 differentially expressed genes, including 1,204 differentially methylated and expressed genes (DMEGs). Functional enrichment analysis revealed that DMEGs were mainly associated with extracellular matrix organization, endothelial differentiation, and cell adhesion. PPI network analysis identified a highly interconnected module, and integrin family genes (ITGA1, ITGAV, ITGA11, ITGB5) and ADAMTS2 were identified as key hub genes.ConclusionsThis study provides a transcriptome-wide landscape of m6A methylation during endothelial differentiation of BM-MSCs and identifies key regulatory pathways and hub genes potentially involved in this process. These findings suggest that m6A-mediated epitranscriptomic regulation plays an important role in MSC endothelial differentiation and angiogenesis.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) features high biological heterogeneity and unfavorable prognoses, demanding reliable prognostic biomarkers. Dysregulated post-translational modifications (PTMs) drive AML progression by disrupting protein function and cellular signaling. This work constructed a PTM-based risk signature to predict AML survival and dissect the tumor immune microenvironment.RNA-seq and clinical data of TCGA-Acute Myeloid Leukemia (LAML) AML patients and normal genotype-tissue expression samples were analyzed. Limma identified differentially expressed genes (DEGs), and overlapping PTM-related DEGs were screened. Unsupervised consensus clustering stratified patients into molecular subgroups, whose overall survival (OS) was compared via Kaplan-Meier curves. A prognostic score model was built through univariate Cox screening, least absolute shrinkage and selection operator dimension reduction and multivariate Cox regression, validated by time-dependent receiver operating characteristic curves. Cell-type Identification By Estimating Relative Subsets Of RNA Transcripts (CIBERSORT) and single-sample gene set enrichment analysis quantified immune infiltration, while tumor mutation burden (TMB) was calculated to characterize genomic features. The GSE71014 cohort served as external validation.A four-gene signature (ITGAX, DOCK1, CPNE8, and GABRE) was established and validated. High-risk patients had markedly shorter OS, with 1-, 3-, and 5-year AUC values of 0.79, 0.79, and 0.90, consistent with external cohort results. The two risk groups displayed divergent immune landscapes; high-risk patients overexpressed multiple immune checkpoints. Though TMB was similar across groups, high-risk patients with low TMB had the worst survival. Low-risk patients showed greater cytarabine susceptibility, confirming the model's clinical value.This PTM-associated signature accurately stratifies AML patients and reveals immune microenvironment disparities. It enables precise personalized prognosis and identifies PTM-related genes as promising therapeutic targets for AML immunotherapy.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) is a prevalent malignancy, representing 80-90% of kidney cancer cases. This study aimed to identify potential prognostic genes to improve patient survival prediction and provide new insights into the pathogenesis and treatment of ccRCC through comprehensive whole transcriptome sequencing analysis.The analysis utilized whole transcriptomic data from publicly available datasets, including TCGA-KIRC and GSE96574. Methods involved identifying differentially expressed mRNAs and long non-coding RNAs, prognostic gene screening via MCODE plugin and risk model construction, followed by functional enrichment, molecular network construction, drug prediction, and molecular docking. The expression levels of key genes were subsequently validated using reverse transcription quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) on clinical samples.Eight prognostic genes (IFNG, CXCL13, KLRK1, LAG3, ITGAX, TNFRSF9, CD2, CD8B) were identified and formed a risk stratification model. These genes were primarily enriched in immune-related pathways such as antigen processing and presentation. A regulatory network involving transcription factors, miRNAs, lncRNA PVT1, and circRNAs was constructed. Drug prediction and molecular docking suggested potential targeted drugs, including amitriptyline hydrochloride for CD8B and IFNG, and rituximab for CXCL13 and IFNG, with strong binding affinities noted for ITGAX and KLRK1. RT-qPCR validation confirmed significantly elevated expression of IFNG, LAG3, TNFRSF9, and CD8B in ccRCC patients compared to controls (p < 0.05).This study identifies an eight-gene signature as a promising prognostic biomarker for ccRCC, deeply involved in the tumor immune microenvironment. The findings offer novel insights into ccRCC pathogenesis and highlight potential therapeutic targets and agents, paving the way for improved prognostic strategies and immunotherapeutic approaches.Copyright © 2026 Chang, Qin, Liu, Wang, Lu, Jing, Guo and Li.
Hypertensive retinopathy is a microvascular complication caused by systemic hypertension and can lead to severe visual impairment. At present, the molecular mechanisms of this disease remain incompletely understood, particularly the global expression profiles and regulatory networks of non-coding RNA (ncRNA). This study aims to comprehensively analyze the genome-wide differential expression profiles of messenger RNA (mRNA), microRNA (miRNA), long non-coding RNA (lncRNA), and circular RNA (circRNA) in retinal tissues from a spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) model of hypertensive retinopathy, and to observe transcriptomic changes after treatment with the calcium channel blocker lacidipine, thereby revealing their potential roles in disease pathogenesis and identifying possible therapeutic targets.SHRs were used as a model of hypertensive retinopathy, and normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats were used as controls. Rats were divided into 3 groups: A control group (WKY), a model group (SHR), and a treatment group (SHR+lacidipine). Rats in the treatment group received lacidipine by gavage at 0.5 mg/(kg·d) for 8 consecutive weeks. At the end of the experiment, retinal tissues were collected for histopathological examination by hematoxylin and eosin (HE) staining and for high-throughput sequencing. The lncRNA library was used to analyze mRNA, lncRNA, and circRNA expression profiles, and the small RNA (sRNA) library was used to analyze miRNA expression profiles. Differential expression analysis was performed using DESeq2. The screening criteria were |log2 fold change (FC)|≥1 and false discovery rate (FDR) significance criteria for mRNAs and lncRNAs, and |log2FC|≥1 and P<0.05 for miRNAs and circRNAs as exploratory candidates. Differentially expressed RNAs were subjected to Gene Ontology (GO) functional annotation and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analysis. Competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) regulatory networks involving lncRNA/circRNA-miRNA-mRNA were constructed through target prediction and co‑expression analysis. Ten mRNAs whose expression changes were reversed after treatment were selected for validation by real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (real-time RT-PCR; n=6 per group). Comparisons among multiple groups were performed using one-way analysis of variance and post hoc multiple-comparison tests.1) Verification of the animal model: Blood pressure was significantly higher in the model group than in the control group. The model group exhibited edema of the retinal nerve fiber layer, dilation of vascular lumens, and increased retinal thickness. Lacidipine treatment reduced blood pressure and alleviated these pathological changes. 2) Differential expression of mRNAs: Compared with the control group, 870 mRNAs were significantly downregulated and 1 018 mRNAs were significantly upregulated in the model group. Compared with the model group, 2 644 mRNAs were significantly downregulated and 186 mRNAs were significantly upregulated in the treatment group. GO analysis showed that upregulated mRNAs in the model group were enriched in immune-inflammatory processes, such as leukocyte activation, chemotaxis, defense response, and regulation of tumor necrosis factor (TNF) production, whereas downregulated mRNAs were enriched in G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) signaling, glycoprotein synthesis, ion channel activity, and related processes. KEGG analysis revealed that upregulated mRNAs in the model group were enriched in interleukin-17 (IL-17), TNF, oxidative stress, and lipid inflammatory mediator metabolic pathways, whereas downregulated mRNAs were enriched in phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)-protein kinase B (AKT) signaling, vascular smooth muscle contraction, extracellular matrix (ECM)-receptor interaction, and related pathways. In the treatment group, the downregulated mRNAs were mainly enriched in pathways related to immune-inflammatory activation, such as mast cell degranulation and leukocyte degranulation. 3) Treatment-reversed mRNAs: A total of 67 genes that were upregulated in the model group and downregulated after treatment were identified; these genes were mainly enriched in endoplasmic reticulum stress-associated apoptotic signaling, mitophagy, ubiquitin ligase activity, and related processes. In addition, 54 genes that were downregulated in the model group and upregulated after treatment were identified; these genes were mainly enriched in amino acid transport, integrin complex, focal adhesion, glutamate transport activity, and related processes. Real-time RT-PCR validated the expression changes of Med22, Rmt1, Sytl3, Itgb7, and Slc1a3 which were decreased in the model group and increased after treatment, as well as Rnf183, Lrrc29, Lat2, Hist1h4m, and Dpm3, which were increased in the model group and decreased after treatment. These findings were consistent with the sequencing results. 4) Differential expression of miRNAs: Compared with the control group, 30 miRNAs were downregulated and 26 miRNAs were upregulated in the model group. Compared with the model group, 14 miRNAs were downregulated and 53 miRNAs were upregulated in the treatment group. Treatment-reversed miRNAs were identified: Rno-miR-1-3p, novel_miR_1203, and novel_miR_1417 were upregulated in the model group and downregulated after treatment, whereas novel_miR_107 and novel_miR_905 were downregulated in the model group and upregulated after treatment. Their target genes were enriched in regulation of retinal cone/rod cell differentiation, ECM remodeling, the Notch pathway, fatty acid synthesis, and related processes. 5) Differential expression of lncRNAs: Compared with the control group, 786 lncRNAs were downregulated and 764 lncRNAs were upregulated in the model group. Compared with the model group, 217 lncRNAs were downregulated and 230 lncRNAs were upregulated in the treatment group. A total of 55 lncRNAs that were upregulated in the model group and downregulated after treatment, and 76 lncRNAs that were downregulated in the model group and upregulated after treatment, were identified. Their target genes were enriched in immune regulation, wound healing, vascular remodeling, retinol metabolism related to rod-mediated scotopic vision, glutamatergic neuron differentiation, the forkhead box O (FoxO) pathway, retinoic acid-inducible gene I (RIG-I)-like receptor signaling, and related processes. 6) Differential expression of circRNAs: Compared with the control group, 45 circRNAs were downregulated and 47 circRNAs were upregulated in the model group. Compared with the model group, 25 circRNAs were downregulated and 22 circRNAs were upregulated in the treatment group. Eleven circRNAs that were downregulated in the model group and upregulated after treatment, and 10 circRNAs that were upregulated in the model group and downregulated after treatment, were identified. Their host genes were enriched in regulation of synaptic neural signaling, second messenger transmission, calcium signaling, and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) signaling pathways. 7) Construction of ceRNA networks: Based on expression patterns and target prediction, multiple lncRNA/circRNA-miRNA-mRNA regulatory networks were constructed. For example, the networks composed of rno_circ_Rims2_10, rno-miR-1-3p, and related mRNAs, such as Mmp14 and Fasn, as well as the novel_miR_1417 related network, may be involved in retinal stress responses, inflammatory regulation, and neurovascular remodeling.This study is the first to integrate and analyze retinal transcriptomic profiles of mRNAs, miRNAs, lncRNAs, and circRNAs in an SHR model of hypertensive retinopathy, and it reveals RNA expression changes associated with lacidipine treatment. The results suggest that immune-inflammatory activation, neurovascular dysfunction, and ncRNA-mediated ceRNA regulatory networks may participate in the pathogenesis of hypertensive retinopathy. The identified differentially expressed molecules and predicted regulatory axes provide a candidate molecular basis for further mechanistic validation and screening of potential therapeutic targets.
Background: Hematopoietic stem/progenitor cell (HSPC) transplantation outcomes depend critically on the dose of functional stem cells delivered to patients, yet current ex vivo cell therapy manufacturing processes lack reliable methods to quantify therapeutic hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) after in vitro culture. This gap poses significant clinical risks, as culture-induced changes may alter the cellular composition of therapeutic products. The challenge stems from two key limitations: (i) biological-conventional HSC markers to phenotypically characterize subpopulations such as CD38 become unreliable during culture, and (ii) technical-existing assays cannot distinguish between HSCs and phenotypically similar progenitors in manipulated products.To solve this problem, we compared an ITGA3- and CD49f-based identification strategy that bypasses culture-sensitive markers.Through single-cell analysis of adult mobilized peripheral blood HSPCs cultured under clinical manufacturing conditions, we demonstrate that ITGA3+ cells better maintain stemness signatures (higher AVP/HLF expression) compared to CD49f+.Functional validation through xenotransplantation revealed superior engraftment and multilineage reconstitution with ITGA3+ HSCs.Our findings provide the first validated method to track functional HSCs during clinical manufacturing, addressing a fundamental quality control challenge in the field. This advance enables more accurate dosing for transplants and provides a critical tool for emerging gene-modified HSPC therapies where product characterization is paramount.Copyright © 2026 International Society for Cell & Gene Therapy. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Somatosensory neurons detect a diverse repertoire of stimuli, including in skeletal tissues, in which sensations of pain, pressure, and position are transmitted. Trauma to the physis often leads to pathologic "bony bar" formation, impeding normal growth of the skeleton. The role of somatosensory nerves in detecting and, in turn, regulating physis injury is unknown. Here, we observed prominent sensory nerve growth within the injured physis in mouse and human tissues corresponding to domains of nerve growth factor (NGF) expression. Two independent methods to inhibit tropomyosin receptor kinase A (TrkA) signaling reduced nerve sprouting and attenuated pathologic bony bar formation, whereas conversely sensory neural conditioned medium-treated organ cultures demonstrated the opposing effects. Somatosensory nerve retrograde tracing and single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) identified a sensorineural transcriptome evoked by physis injury in mice. Corresponding scRNA-seq of injured mouse growth plates implicated pleiotrophin (PTN) signaling in pathologic growth plate ossification, a finding confirmed by ex vivo organ culture and in vivo knockout in sensory ganglia. Last, FDA-approved long-acting bupivacaine prevented pathological innervation and ossification of the growth plate after injury. These findings suggest that targeting somatosensory nerves could offer previously unrecognized strategies to treat pain and prevent pathologic ossification to optimize patient outcomes after growth plate injury.
Primary trigeminal neuralgia (PTN) is a severe chronic pain disorder, yet whole-brain white matter microstructural alterations beyond the trigeminal nerve remain poorly understood, partly due to limitations of conventional diffusion tensor imaging in crossing fiber regions.We prospectively enrolled 57 patients with classical PTN and 29 age‑ and sex-matched healthy controls. Seventy-two whole‑brain white matter tracts were reconstructed using constrained spherical deconvolution and fixel-based analysis. Fractional anisotropy (FA) was compared between groups using permutation testing with false discovery rate correction. Additional analyses examined associations with clinical variables, surgical outcomes, and neurovascular conflict status.Six tracts showed significantly reduced FA in PTN patients compared to controls (all p < 0.05, FDR-corrected). All six belong to motor-related systems: right fronto-pontine tract, left corticospinal tract, and four striatal tracts (right striato-prefrontal, right striato-fronto-orbital, right striato-occipital, left striato-parietal). No significant correlations with pain severity or disease duration survived multiple comparisons.Microstructural white matter alterations in PTN are not limited to sensory trigeminal pathways but prominently involve motor-associated striato-cortical and corticofugal projection tracts, suggesting that motor system reorganization may be one of the core features of PTN pathophysiology.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Bone invasion is a strong indicator of a poor prognosis in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC), although the underlying mechanisms are still unclear. Due to the limited resolution of bulk sequencing, the specific malignant epithelial cell (EPC) subpopulation responsible for bone invasion and its regulatory network have long been unclear. We developed a comprehensive cellular atlas of EPCs in bone-invasive HNSCC using single-cell transcriptome sequencing, and we carefully examined their subpopulation heterogeneity, functional states, and transcriptional regulatory networks. The primary subpopulation found to be associated with bone invasion was the C2 ITGA6⁺ EPC. Mechanistically, these intermediate transitional cells may facilitate bone invasion via an epithelial-mesenchymal transition program controlled by TP63, with connections between the tumor microenvironment regulated by LAMININ and EPHB signaling. This discovery may help develop customized treatment options by providing a novel single-cell-resolution viewpoint on the molecular associations underlying bone-invasive HNSCC.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Prostate cancer (PC) is the second most common solid cancer affecting men. LncRNA PCAT19 has a carcinogenic role in multiple solid and hematological cancers. Additionally, miR-195 was significantly downregulated in multiple malignancies. Moreover, ITGA6 promotes pathways that control carcinogenesis. E-cadherin is a glycoprotein involved in epithelial cell adhesion and maintaining tissue integrity. E-cadherin loss is related to epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and cancer metastasis. This preliminary study investigated the expression of PCAT19, miR-195, ITGA6, and E-cadherin in PC tissues.Seventy-two tissue specimens from 36 PC patients were enrolled in this study. The diseased group included 36 primary PC tissues, and the control group included 36 specimens from their non-neoplastic adjacent tissues. Gene expression of LncRNA PCAT19, miR-195, and ITGA6 in tissues was estimated by Reverse transcription- quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), and E-cadherin expression was detected by immunohistochemistry.A statistically significant upregulation inPCAT19 (7.92-fold) and ITGA6 (6.67-fold) gene expression and downregulation of miR-195 (4.17-fold) gene expression in tumor tissues compared to adjacent non-neoplastic tissues were recorded. During follow-up, 11 of 36 patients (30.6%) died, and disease progression occurred in 6 of 25 evaluable patients (24.0%). There was a statistically significant decrease in PCAT19 and ITGA6 and an increase in miR-195 among surviving cases compared with dead cases. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis revealed that PCAT19 at a cutoff of > 8.89-fold demonstrated promising discriminatory performance for advanced-stage PC, with an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.84 (95% confidence interval (CI): 0.69-0.99, P < 0.001), 70% sensitivity, 93.7% specificity, 93.3% positive predictive value, 71.4% negative predictive value, and an overall diagnostic accuracy of 80.6%. In comparison, ITGA6 (AUC = 0.73) and miR-195 (AUC = 0.71) exhibited only fair discriminatory ability.Upregulation of PCAT19 and ITGA6, and downregulation of miR-195, in prostate cancer tissues may be associated with disease aggressiveness.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Primary trigeminal neuralgia (PTN) is a debilitating neuropathic pain disorder with limited long-term treatment options. Although acupuncture is widely used, the comparative effectiveness of different acupuncture modalities remains unclear.To compare the efficacy and safety of various acupuncture therapies for PTN using a network meta-analysis (NMA).Randomized controlled trials were identified through a systematic search of seven databases from database inception to 2 March 2026. Outcomes included total effective rate (TER), visual analogue scale (VAS), attack frequency (AF), traditional Chinese medicine syndrome score (TCMSS), and adverse events (AEs). A network meta-analysis was conducted, and treatments were ranked using SUCRA.This network meta-analysis included 58 randomized controlled trials. The results showed that bloodletting therapy was identified as a potentially effective intervention for improving TER (RR = 2.00, 95% CI: 1.15-3.47; SUCRA = 95.6%; CINeMA: low certainty) and reducing VAS scores (MD = 0.07, 95% CI: 0.01-0.61; SUCRA = 87.4%; CINeMA: very low certainty). In contrast, acupuncture combined with conventional Western medicine performed better in reducing AF (MD = 0.05, 95% CI: 0.02-0.14; SUCRA = 100%; CINeMA: very low certainty), improving TCMSS (SMD = 0.15, 95% CI: 0.07-0.34; SUCRA = 90.7%; CINeMA: very low certainty), and decreasing the risk of AEs (OR=0.18, 95% CI: 0.12-0.28; SUCRA = 73.8%; CINeMA: moderate certainty).Different acupuncture modalities may offer distinct therapeutic benefits for PTN. Bloodletting therapy showed potential advantages in improving TER and reducing VAS, whereas acupuncture combined with conventional Western medicine appeared to perform better in reducing AF, improving TCMSS, and lowering the risk of AEs. However, these findings should be interpreted cautiously because of moderate-to-high heterogeneity across some outcomes and the generally low certainty of the evidence. Further large-scale, multicenter, high-quality randomized controlled trials are warranted to confirm these findings.https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/prospero/, PROSPERO (CRD420261339021).© 2026 Ren, Chen, Zhang, Guo, Peng, Jia, Li, Shan, Qiu and Cai.
This research aims to characterize the English language tobacco and nicotine information environment on YouTube by examining the content to which those who actively seek tobacco and nicotine content are exposed.We used Google Trends, YouTube's Application Programming Interface (API), and a custom python script to sample the most common videos populated by the most common search terms, and the most common videos populated by YouTube's recommendation feed. After categorizing search terms as "Health Information Seeking" (HIS), "Pro-tobacco/Nicotine" (PtN), or Ambiguous, a content analysis of N = 606 relevant videos identified pro-versus anti-tobacco videos by tobacco manufacturer, broadcast media, health institution, and organic sources. Analyses describe how often each kind of search leads to each kind of source and to pro-tobacco videos in both the primary search results and the recommended videos.In sum 394(65%) videos were pro-tobacco including 83% of PtN and 60% of ambiguous searches. However, just 5 of 118 videos returned by HIS searches or recommendations were pro-tobacco. Tobacco manufacturer videos were primarily found in PtN searches, though two were recommended in ambiguous searches. The most common primary search results for HIS were health institutions comprising 39% of combined primary (45%) and recommended (36%) videos.Although possible, tobacco and nicotine related HIS on YouTube is unlikely to drive exposure to pro-tobacco content and relatively likely to lead to reputable sources such as health institutions. Conversely, ambiguous or non-specific searches (e.g. vape, nic pouch) both lead to a pro-tobacco information environment. Potential individual and platform-level interventions are discussed.© The Author(s) 2026.
Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) exhibits marked molecular heterogeneity and diverse clinical outcomes, partly influenced by HPV status and the tumor immune microenvironment. Although tumor doubling time (TDT) reflects tumor growth kinetics and has prognostic relevance, its molecular basis in HNSCC remains unclear.Single-cell RNA-seq data from GSE164690 were integrated with bulk transcriptomic datasets from TCGA-HNSC, GSE41613, GSE65858, and ICGC. We identified 21 tumor doubling time-related genes (TDTRGs), evaluated their cell type-specific enrichment using UCell, and defined molecular subtypes by consensus clustering. Immune infiltration was assessed by ssGSEA and CIBERSORT. A prognostic model was developed using 117 machine-learning algorithm combinations in the Mime1 package and further evaluated by single-cell visualization, cell cycle scoring, pseudotime analysis, drug sensitivity prediction, and molecular docking.A single-cell atlas comprising 17 cell populations was constructed. TDTRGs were mainly enriched in cycling T cells and epithelial cells and showed HPV-related expression differences. Two molecular subtypes were identified; C2 was associated with poorer progression-free interval (P = 0.001) and enrichment of MET and integrin signaling. A seven-gene signature-CCBE1, MAD2L1, ECT2, BIRC5, ITGA6, ESM1, and NUF2-showed robust prognostic performance across independent cohorts and outperformed 73 published signatures. Single-cell and pseudotime analyses confirmed cell type-specific and dynamic regulation. Venetoclax was predicted as a potential therapeutic candidate, with docking energies below -9 kcal·mol⁻¹.This study defines TDTRG-related heterogeneity in HNSCC and establishes a robust seven-gene prognostic signature, providing potential biomarkers and therapeutic insights for personalized management.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Oocyte meiotic maturation requires highly asymmetric cell division, governed by spindle migration and actin cap formation. However, the upstream mechanisms that regulate the precise coordination of these events remain unclear.This study aimed to elucidate the role of PARP7, a mono-ADP-ribosyltransferase, in regulating actin cytoskeletal dynamics and chromosomal stability during mouse oocyte meiosis.Metabolomic profiling was performed to assess NAD+ dynamics during meiosis. PARP7 expression and localisation were analysed using genetic knockdown and pharmacological inhibition approaches. Multi-omics analyses were performed to identify PARP7 targets and map MARylation sites within the motor domain. Protein stability was evaluated following PARP7 suppression and site-directed mutagenesis.PARP7 was identified as the most abundant PARP family member in oocytes and localised to the actin cap during anaphase I. PARP7 inhibition disrupted meiotic progression, resulting in cytokinesis failure, aberrant polar body extrusion, and increased aneuploidy. These defects were attributed to impaired actin cap formation. MYH9 was identified as a PARP7 target, and MARylation was found to be critical for its stability; loss of this modification accelerated MYH9 degradation.PARP7-mediated MARylation stabilises MYH9 to maintain actin cap integrity and chromosomal segregation in mouse oocytes. These findings provide novel insights into the aetiology of oocyte aneuploidy and age-related reproductive decline.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Platelet activation and neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) formation are critical drivers of immunothrombosis, yet the molecular crosstalk governing these processes remains incompletely understood. In this study, we unveil a distinct regulatory mechanism whereby Yes-associated protein 1 (YAP1) binds to non-muscle myosin heavy chain 9 (MYH9) to drive platelet activation and thrombosis. Interestingly, we identified MAPK-interacting kinase 1 (MNK1) as a natural competitive "structural shield" in this process. MNK1 physically interacts with MYH9 in resting platelets, thereby blocking the YAP1-binding site and preventing YAP1-mediated signaling. Leveraging this mechanism, we developed a peptide inhibitor R13 and a small molecule MD2. Notably, we demonstrate that MD2 functions as a structural scaffold stabilizer independent of its canonical kinase activity, effectively abrogating the pathological recruitment of YAP1 to MYH9 triggered by a broad spectrum of agonists, thereby potently suppressing platelet activation. Crucially, this inhibition effectively abolishes NET formation driven by platelet activation. Collectively, this study establishes a competitive "MNK1-MYH9-YAP1" switching axis, where targeting the MNK1-MYH9 complex via protein-protein interaction stabilization represents a promising and hemostatically sparing therapeutic strategy to combat immunothrombosis.Copyright © 2026 The American Society of Gene and Cell Therapy. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Dengue viruses (DENVs) usually cause a mild febrile illness which might flare up in some patients as dengue haemorrhagic fever (DHF) or dengue shock syndrome. Altered expression of autoimmune markers and development of autoimmune diseases was observed in patients exhibiting prolonged dengue symptoms, suggesting a possible correlation between DENVs and autoimmune diseases. Molecular mimicry of the blood coagulation pathway proteins by DENVs might be a potential factor underlying clinical manifestations of DHF. Inhibition of protein-protein interactions (PPIs) in DENV mimicry proteins and human proteins can potentially treat both DHF and, associated autoimmune diseases. In this study, we have performed a systematic in silico analysis of human proteins interacting with DENV mimicry proteins (HPIDMP) as novel drug targets. Potential inhibitors of the HPIDMP were discerned from the DrugBank database following stringent parameters. The protein-ligand interactions were predicted using molecular docking and evaluated with decoy-based validation, molecular dynamics simulations, and MM-PBSA binding free energy calculations. RAF1 targeting drugs Sorafenib and Regorafenib exhibited the most consistent interaction profile across all computational analyses, followed by the SIRT1-targeting compounds selisistat and resveratrol, which demonstrated moderate but consistent computational support. In contrast, the MYH9-artenimol and HSPE1-phenethyl isothiocyanate systems showed comparatively weaker support. On the basis of our results, we propose Sorafenib and Regorafenib as the most promising candidates for in vitro or clinical studies for treatment of DHF and/or DENV-associated autoimmune diseases, followed by Selisistat and Resveratrol. Thus these DrugBank molecules can be incorporated in clinical studies or in vitro testing for treatment of DHF and/or DENV-associated autoimmune diseases. Also, the methods adopted in this study can guide the repurposing of known drugs to treat other pathogen-associated autoimmune diseases.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s40203-026-00699-0.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Sepsis is a systemic inflammatory response caused by pathogen infection, leading tomultiple organ failure. This study aims to identify potential sepsis biomarkers.Differentially expressed genes in sepsis-related datasets GSE57065 and GSE95233 were analyzed, and sepsis-associated genes were identified using weighted gene co-expression network analysis. Protein-protein interaction network was further analyzed to screen the core genes, which were verified using external datasets GSE65682 and GSE9960. An in vitro septic cardiomyopathy model was constructed by inducing H9c2 cells with lipopolysaccharide (LPS).TCF7, LEF1, FYN, IL7R, CD3E, SKAP1 and FCER1G showed significant differences between sepsis and the control samples, and were related with immune cells infiltration. Sepsis patients with high expression of SKAP1, FYN and CD3E had better prognosis. Overexpression of SKAP1, FYN and CD3E could significantly inhibit the levels of inflammatory counterfactors TNF-α, IL-6 and IL-8 induced by LPS, and reduce the apoptosis rate of H9c2 cardiomyocytes, the ratio of cleaved caspase 3 and Bax/Bcl-2. Additionally, SKAP1 and FYN exerted these biological functions partially via activating PI3K/Akt pathway.SKAP1, FYN and CD3E are potential sepsis biomarkers associsted with favorable prognosis, protecting against inflammation and cardiomyocyte apoptosis.
We examined extracellular vesicle (EV) protein alterations after burn injury to elucidate molecular pathways linking immune-neural communication and the pathophysiology of burns.Severe burn injury triggers widespread inflammation and metabolic stress with downstream consequences. EVs are essential mediators of cell-to-cell communication and protein transport for regulating inflammation, metabolism, and neuronal signaling that may reflect burn-related alterations.Plasma EVs from 37 adult burn patients (≥15% total body surface area burn [TBSA]) and 21 nonburn controls were analyzed. An age-restricted subcohort (<40 years) was additionally evaluated to minimize potential confounding of age. A subset (4 per group) underwent cell type-specific EV enrichment. Proteomic profiling and functional enrichment analyses, including gene ontology (GO) over-representation analysis (ORA), Reactome gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), and Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA), were performed to identify differential protein abundance and associated biological pathways.Burn injury produced distinct alterations in EV proteomic profiles. Among 919 detected proteins, 326 were decreased and 593 were increased. The 5 most significant proteins (adjusted P -value<0.05) distinguishing burns from controls were CRP, ITGA11, MYH9, CALR, and ANTXR2. GO ORA, Reactome GSEA, and IPA consistently identified enrichment of immune activation and inflammatory regulation pathways, including immune cell chemotaxis, acute-phase signaling, cytokine signaling, complement activation, coagulation, and cellular stress pathways. Similar inflammatory pathway enrichment persisted in the age-restricted subcohort. Exploratory analyses of cell type-enriched EVs demonstrated distinct proteomic trends across immune and neuronal EV populations, although no subtype-specific proteins exhibited statistical significance.Burn injury profoundly alters EV cargo across general, immune, and neuronal types, reflecting proinflammatory and neuroimmune-associated signaling. This coordinated EV remodeling may reflect the hyperinflammatory responses, altered healing, and downstream biological pathway alterations. EV-based biomarkers may enable improved diagnostic and therapeutic strategies to mitigate dysregulated immune and healing responses in burn patients.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Stanford type A aortic dissection (AAD) is a life-threatening cardiovascular disease characterized by tearing in the aortic wall. Using spatial transcriptomics and multiplex immunofluorescence, we comprehensively analyzed ascending aortas from eight AAD patients across different severities and segments. We demonstrate that SPP1-driven inflammatory signaling intensifies with AAD severity, identifying a nine-gene, layer-anchored severity scale: MYL6/CALD1/MYH9 (mild); CCL2/CP/COL4A1 (moderate); and TMSB4X/ATP5F1E/PKM (severe). Importantly, the collagen-remodeling triad COL1A1/COL3A1/MMP2 is concurrently up-regulated in the brachiocephalic, left subclavian, and left common carotid arteries, often before the ascending aorta meets surgical diameter thresholds. These molecular signatures provide a critical foundation for non-invasive biomarker discovery, risk stratification, and precision pharmacotherapy targeting the SPP1-inflammatory axis, ultimately offering new insights into AAD mechanisms and therapeutic targets.© 2026 The Author(s).
Bisphenol A (BPA) is a common industrial chemical primarily used in the manufacture of plastics, and it has been found in more than 90% of people worldwide. As an endocrine disruptor, BPA can impair reproduction, development, immunity, metabolism, and cognition; it also disturbs immune balance and thus fosters chronic inflammation. A number of population-based studies have indicated a link between environmental BPA exposure and atopic dermatitis (AD). Nevertheless, the detailed molecular pathways connecting BPA to AD remain poorly understood. AD is the leading chronic recurrent inflammatory skin disorder, characterized by severe itching and repeated eczema-like lesions. Its prevalence is roughly 13% among children and 5% among adults, and its global incidence continues to rise, imposing heavy health and economic burdens on societies. To clarify whether and how BPA may promote or worsen AD, we carried out a comprehensive computational study that integrated network toxicology, transcriptomic data, machine learning, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics simulations. From the CTD, ChEMBL, and SwissTargetPrediction databases, we collected 5701 potential BPA targets; from GeneCards and OMIM, we obtained 3270 genes linked to AD. The overlap between these two gene sets gave a group of common candidate genes. Enrichment analyses using GO and KEGG showed that these common genes were significantly overrepresented in the PI3K-Akt signaling pathway, Th17 cell differentiation, and the JAK-STAT signaling pathway-all central to immune and inflammatory regulation. We then built a protein-protein interaction (PPI) network by submitting the common genes to the STRING database and employed Cytoscape to extract hub genes from that network. By integrating human AD transcriptomic profiles with the hub genes and applying two machine learning techniques (LASSO and SVM), we identified six core toxic targets of BPA in AD: TIGIT, JAK3, IL22, S100A8, CCL2, and FCER1G. These six targets fall into two main functional categories: immune dysregulation and inflammatory cell infiltration. Subsequent molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulation experiments confirmed that BPA binds well to all six targets and can form stable complexes with them. Collectively, our findings offer a preliminary experimental foundation for future investigations into the pathogenesis of BPA-induced AD and provide important molecular evidence for understanding how environment-gene interactions contribute to complex inflammatory skin diseases such as AD.
This study aimed to analyze the active ingredients of the compound preparation of Yiqi Huoxue (YQHX) and evaluate the therapeutic effect of its nanoparticles (MM/YQHXF-NPs) on atherosclerosis (AS). First, the active ingredient in the YQHX formulation was identified by LC-MS analysis. Subsequently, transmission electron microscopy (TEM) tests particle size. Mapping tests nanoparticle surface elements. Dynamic light scattering (DLS) tests nanoparticle size and distribution. ZETA tests nanoparticle surface potential. HPLC tests drug release. The results showed that these nanoparticles were spherical, approximately 100 nm in size, and had good dispersion. The P element content of MM/YQHXF-NPs increased after cell membrane coating, and their hydrodynamic size also increased accordingly, but the Polymer dispersity index (PDI) value was low, indicating good monodispersity. In addition, the nanoparticle surface had a weak negative charge, the encapsulation efficiency of YQHXF was 59.4%, and the drug loading rate was 5.61%. In cell-based experiments, MM/YQHXF-NPs showed no cytotoxicity towards A7r5 cells at a concentration of 150 μg/mL. The study found that ox-LDL-induced A7r5 cell-to-foam cell transformation was significantly inhibited. Oil Red O staining revealed that MM/YQHXF-NPs reduced lipid accumulation. In addition, YQHXF and its active component, salvianolic acid B, can inhibit the foam cell formation of A7r5 cells. Furthermore, MM/YQHXF-NPs modulated the phenotype of smooth muscle cells, inhibiting the expression of genes such as Myh9, Icam-1, Vcam-1, Tnfrsf11b, Cd68, Lgals3, and Abca1, while promoting the expression of Myh11 and Smtn. Mechanistic studies revealed that MM/YQHXF-NPs exerted their effects by inhibiting the Krüppel-like factor 4 (KLF4) and NF-κB signaling pathways. In a high-fat diet, ApoE-/- mice model of AS, MM/YQHXF-NPs demonstrated significant therapeutic efficacy. H&E and Oil Red O staining revealed that MM/YQHXF-NPs mitigated pathological changes, reduced plaque size, and lowered serum TC, TG, LDL, and HDL levels. They also stabilized atherosclerotic plaques by increasing fiber area and promoting SM22α and SM-MHC expression. Consistent with the results from cell-based experiments, MM/YQHXF-NPs effectively inhibited the transformation of arterial smooth muscle cells (SMCs) into foam cells in vivo and suppressed the activation of KLF4 and NF-κB signaling pathways. In summary, MM/YQHXF-NPs can effectively prevent the transformation of SMCs into foam cells by inhibiting the KLF4 and NF-κB signaling pathways, thereby alleviating AS. These results provide a theoretical basis for MM/YQHXF-NPs as a potential therapeutic drug for AS.© 2026. The Author(s).
Differentiating myosin heavy chain 9 (MYH9)-related disease (MYH9-RD) from immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) remains clinically challenging. This study utilized data-independent acquisition (DIA) plasma proteomics to identify distinguishing biomarker signatures. Profiling cohorts of MYH9-RD (n = 10), ITP (n = 10) and healthy controls (n = 14) quantified 2533 proteins, revealing distinct immune and metabolic remodelling. We identified 91 MYH9-RD-specific and 124 ITP-specific proteins, highlighting divergent organ involvement pathways. By integrating protein-protein interaction networks with Boruta and Random Forest machine-learning algorithms, we identified preliminary candidate biomarker panels (MYH9-RD panel: von Willebrand factor [VWF], cholesteryl ester transfer protein [CETP], apolipoprotein A-1 [APOA1], periostin [POSTN]; ITP panel: neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin [NGAL], plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 [PAI-1], carboxypeptidase B2 [CPB2]) that demonstrated excellent apparent discrimination. This exploratory study provides a hypothesis-generating framework, revealing fundamentally distinct molecular landscapes between congenital and acquired macrothrombocytopenia. Pending rigorous future external validation, these preliminary candidate biomarkers offer novel biological insights into the divergent pathophysiologies of MYH9-RD and ITP.© 2026 British Society for Haematology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The expansion and pathogenic differentiation of intermediate monocytes (IMs) are critical yet poorly understood events in psoriasis pathogenesis. Here, we identify the transcription factor PU.1 (encoded by SPI1) as a master regulator driving IM-mediated psoriasiform inflammation. Single-cell RNA sequencing and flow cytometry of peripheral blood mononuclear cells revealed expansion of IMs in psoriasis patients, with PU.1 uncovered as its specific regulator. Myeloid-specific ablation of Spi1 in mice ameliorated imiquimod-induced psoriasiform dermatitis. Mechanistically, PU.1 promoted IMs differentiation into pro-inflammatory M1 macrophages by transcriptionally upregulating Dectin-1, thereby activating the SYK/NF-κB pathway. We further discovered that the clinical-stage bromodomain and extra-terminal domain inhibitor NHWD-870 effectively suppressed PU.1 expression. Oral administration of NHWD-870 demonstrated potent efficacy in murine psoriasis models by disrupting this PU.1-dependent IMs differentiation. Our findings establish PU.1 as a novel therapeutic target for psoriasis and propose that pharmacologic inhibition of PU.1 represents a promising treatment strategy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
To explore the specific molecular mechanisms of CD19 CAR-Macrophage (CD19 CAR-M) in treating Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma (DLBCL).Differential expression and pathway enrichment analyses of GEO dataset GSE66770 were performed to construct a SYK/SHP2/TBK1/TFEB interaction network. CD19 CAR-M were generated by lentiviral transduction of THP-1-derived macrophage-like cells and co-cultured with U2932 cells. CCK-8, colony formation and Transwell assays were used to evaluate U2932 proliferation, invasion and migration; IL-6 and IFN-γ levels were measured by ELISA; ROS was detected by DHE staining. RT-qPCR quantified macrophage markers CD14 (M0), CD163 and CD206 (M2), and M1 marker IL-12. Western blot analyzed p-SYK, p-SHP2, NOX2, p-TBK1, TFEB, LC3B and phosphorylated/total protein ratios; immunofluorescence assessed endosomal markers EEA1 and LAMP1. Phagocytosis was evaluated by fluorescent microsphere assay; U2932 apoptosis was determined by flow cytometry after FcγR blockade. Flow cytometry was additionally performed to validate the maintenance of macrophage phenotype, CAR transduction efficiency, and the purity of cell separation after co-culture. NOD-scid mouse DLBCL xenografts were subjected to in vivo imaging for therapeutic validation.Bioinformatic analysis identified TBK1 as a key immune-evasion node positively correlated with SYK and negatively with SHP2. Flow cytometric analysis confirmed successful construction of the CD19 CAR-M cell model, with stable macrophage phenotype and specific CAR expression. CD19 CAR-M significantly inhibited U2932 proliferation, invasion and migration, elevated IL-6, IFN-γ and ROS, and induced M1 polarization. Phosphorylation of SYK/SHP2/TBK1/TFEB axis proteins and LC3B expression were markedly increased; EEA1/LAMP1 fluorescence intensities were enhanced. Fluovrescent microsphere uptake was elevated and reversible by FcγR inhibitor elsubrutinib, accompanied by increased U2932 late-apoptosis rate. In vivo experiments confirmed that CD19 CAR-M reduced tumor burden via activation of the SYK/SHP2/TBK1/TFEB axis.CD19 CAR-M kills DLBCL through macrophage phagocytosis mediated by the SYK/SHP2/TBK1/TFEB axis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Bruton's tyrosine kinase (BTK) is a clinically validated target for B-cell malignancies, yet covalent inhibitors are limited by acquired resistance and cumulative off-target toxicities. To address these challenges, we employed a scaffold-hopping strategy from larotinib, by integrating a benzoyl hydrazine pharmacophore into the 4-aminoquinoline scaffold to explore a potential non-covalent binding mode. Systematic optimization yielded compound 10m, which exhibited moderate but promising BTK inhibitory activity (IC50 = 126.70 ± 16.69 nM), acceptable kinase selectivity with reduced activity against key off-targets of ibrutinib (EGFR, ITK, BMX, TEC), and potent antiproliferative activity in U-937 cells (IC50 = 0.89 ± 0.01 μM). Western blot analysis confirmed dose-dependent suppression of BTK phosphorylation (Tyr223). Flow cytometry revealed G0/G1 cell cycle arrest and concentration-dependent apoptosis induction. In the U-937 xenograft model, 10m achieved 95.5% tumor growth inhibition at 100 mg/kg i.p. without significant toxicity. Molecular docking studies showed that 10m retains the binding mode of larotinib while forming additional hydrogen bonds, consistent with a reversible binding mode supported by docking and positioned away from Cys481. These results validate the design strategy and position 10m as a promising lead for next-generation non-covalent BTK inhibitors for the treatment of hematologic malignancies.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.
To date, the identity and maintenance of postnatal thymic epithelial progenitor cells (TEPCs) remain unclear, as does the persistence of bipotent TEPCs after birth or whether lineage-restricted progenitors independently maintain separate TEC compartments. Using an inducible lineage-tracing system based on expression of the thymoproteasomal protein β5t, which is expressed in embryonic and a subset of postnatal TEPCs, we explored the early dynamics of the relationships between thymic epithelial cell (TEC) progenitors and their progeny. Our results identified two potential lineage-biased progenitor subpopulations, distinguished by Ly6d expression. Additionally, we observed that aging disproportionately affects Ly6d- compared to Ly6d+ TEPCs, with implications for rejuvenation of aging thymic epithelia. This study provides insights into the developmental pathways of TEC lineages and their maintenance, contributing to strategies for enhancing thymic function in aging and disease.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42560713
Microglia are key players in Alzheimer's disease, but the transcriptional control of their phagocytic function remains unclear. Kim et al. show that mouse microglial Spi1 deletion worsens amyloid pathology by impairing Aβ clearance through Syk, Lyn, and Fcgr1, providing new insight into PU.1-dependent regulatory networks and microglial functions in neurodegeneration.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Tubular epithelial cell (TEC)-macrophage crosstalk contributes to aldosterone (Aldo)-dependent renal fibrosis in hypertension. Extracellular ATP (eATP) can act as a mediator of TEC-macrophage crosstalk. However, whether and how eATP functions in Aldo-induced renal injury remain unknown. A deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA)-salt-induced hypertensive mouse model and a primary mouse renal tubular epithelial cell (mTEC)-bone marrow-derived macrophage (BMDM) coculture model were developed. To investigate the relationship between Aldo/MR and eATP signaling in TEC-macrophage crosstalk, specific inhibitors, adeno-associated virus (AAV)-shRNA and small interfering RNA (siRNA) were used. scRNA-seq analysis of kidneys from DOCA-salt mice was performed for verification. Urinary ATP levels and renal pannexin1 (PANX1, an ATP efflux channel) expression increased significantly in DOCA-salt mice, whereas the selective mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) antagonist finerenone treatment reduced urinary ATP levels, PANX1 expression, tubular injury, and macrophage-related inflammation. Inhibiting PANX1-eATP-P2X7 signaling with the PANX1 inhibitor probenecid, specifically knocking down tubular PANX1, or using the eATP ectonucleotidase apyrase or the P2X7 blocker AZ10606120 mitigated renal tubular damage and NLRP3-mediated pyroptosis in the renal cortex of DOCA-salt mice. Similarly, in mTECs, finerenone suppressed Aldo-induced ATP release and PANX1 upregulation. A luciferase assay confirmed the binding site of MR to the PANX1 transcription promoter. Coculture of BMDMs with mTECs under Aldo stimulation significantly increased NLRP3-mediated BMDM pyroptosis and migration. However, these effects were reversed by treating the mTECs with MR or PANX1 siRNA. Similar results were observed after treatment with apyrase or AZ10606120 in the coculture system. scRNA-seq analysis further identified the activation of P2X7/NLRP3-related pyroptosis pathway in macrophages from DOCA-salt mice. In conclusion, TECs play a critical role in macrophage pyroptosis in Aldo-induced renal injury. eATP is a key messenger involved in TEC-macrophage crosstalk. PANX1-eATP-P2X7 signaling mediates TEC‒macrophage interactions to exacerbate Aldo-driven renal inflammation in hypertension. Mechanism through which Aldo/MR-induced PANX1-eATP-P2X7 signaling activation promotes macrophage pyroptosis in hypertensive renal injury.© 2026. The Author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42552179
Skipped: PubMed ID 42550834 is a review article
Atherosclerosis is the primary underlying cause of coronary artery disease. LMOD1 is a coronary artery disease risk gene whose role in coronary artery pathophysiology is unknown. Whole-body loss of Lmod1 causes a lethal neonatal visceral myopathy in mice, necessitating unique approaches for the study of vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) phenotypes.Control mice (Lmod1WT carrying a Cre recombinase allele) and VSMC-restricted Lmod1 knockout mice (Lmod1SMKO) were subjected to various atherogenic regimens. Atherosclerosis and LMOD1 (leiomodin 1) expression in mouse and human coronary arteries were assessed by histopathology and confocal immunofluorescence microscopy. Coronary arteries from Lmod1WT and Lmod1SMKO mice were analyzed with assorted stains and antibodies, immunogold lineage tracing, and spatial metabolomics. Aortic smooth muscle cells from Lmod1WT and Lmod1SMKO mice were subjected to lipid loading with or without lentivirus carrying wild-type or actin nucleation-deficient Lmod1 (Lmod1ND. Mice harboring an intronic deletion of Lmod1 or Lmod1ND were engineered using clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats.A lethal neonatal visceral myopathy occurred in Lmod1SMKO mice using Myh11-CreERT2, prohibiting further investigation. In contrast, Lmod1SMKO mice generated with Itga8-CreERT2 survived and were therefore used in all subsequent studies. Under atherogenic conditions, Lmod1SMKO mice displayed little vascular disease in several organs but developed diffuse, occlusive coronary atherosclerosis with fibrous caps. No such disease was observed in Lmod1WT mice. Time-course studies documented lipid insudation and VSMC migration into the intima of coronary arteries of Lmod1SMKO mice as early as 8 days after the regimen. Immunogold lineage tracing revealed that 46% of coronary plaque cells were of VSMC origin. Spatial metabolomics uncovered multiple lipid species within coronary atheromata of Lmod1SMKO mice. In vitro studies demonstrated elevated lipid accumulation in Lmod1SMKO VSMCs, which was rescued by viral-mediated Lmod1WT or Lmod1ND expression. An intronic deletion of Lmod1, comprising a conserved orthologous sequence where the single nucleotide variant associated with coronary artery disease exists, showed attenuated LMOD1 expression. Heterozygous Lmod1SMKO mice, with a comparable reduction in LMOD1, displayed no coronary artery disease. Similarly, VSMC-restricted expression of Lmod1ND resulted in negligible coronary atherosclerosis.Under atherogenic conditions, Lmod1SMKO mice present with rapid-onset coronary atherosclerosis. LMOD1 safeguards coronary homeostasis, apparently in an actin nucleation-independent manner.
CDC42 is involved in multiple signaling pathways, including actin organization and polarity. We previously reported progressive sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL) in inner ear hair cell (HC)-specific Cdc42-knockout (Atho1-Cre+/-;Cdc42flox/flox) mice. However, the phenotype was milder than expected, suggesting possible redundancy with other Rho-family GTPases. Thereafter, Takenouchi-Kosaki syndrome (TKS), caused by de novo CDC42 mutations and manifesting as SNHL, was reported, in which the p.Y64C mutation was speculated to be constitutively active. However, the relationship between CDC42 status and hearing phenotypes in TKS remains unclear. Using cell models, mouse models, and patient data, we propose that impaired and/or dysregulated cycling between GDP/inactive and GTP/active forms, through either loss-of-function or constitutive activation, can lead to SNHL. Furthermore, to test redundancy, we generated HC-specific Cdc42;RhoQ double-knockout (Atho1-Cre+/-;Cdc42flox/flox;RhoQflox/flox) mice, which revealed synergistic roles of CDC42 and RHOQ in cochlear HCs. Supporting this synergy, MDCK cells with CDC42 and RHOQ double knockdown showed greater phospho-cofilin, a key regulator of actin turnover, elevation than single knockdowns.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42566502 is a review article
Mutations in the MEFV gene, which encodes pyrin, are associated with a spectrum of inflammatory conditions called pyrin-associated autoinflammatory diseases (PAADs). Of the 400 MEFV variants listed in the Infevers database, most are classified as variants of uncertain significance. Thus, genetic diagnosis of PAADs remains challenging, and the molecular mechanisms underlying pyrin activation remain poorly understood. Here, we used a cell-based pyroptosis assay to stratify 265 missense MEFV variants and identified previously uncharacterized pathogenic variants. We then characterized the interaction between the pyrin B30.2 domain and CDC42, a key regulator of pyrin intracellular trafficking and activation. We found that classical familial Mediterranean fever (FMF)-related variants bind tightly to CDC42 to induce pyrin hyperactivation, whereas certain non-FMF variants induce pyrin hyperactivation independently of CDC42, indicating involvement of multiple pathways in pyrin activation. Our approach provides a proof of concept for a genotype-first approach, which may advance our understanding of complex human diseases.
Heterozygous carboxyl-terminal variants in the RHO guanosine triphosphatase (GTPase) CDC42 are known to cause severe autoinflammatory syndromes. Here, we identified a heterozygous amino-terminal p.T43I (Thr43→Ile) CDC42 variant in patients with autoinflammation and uncovered a molecular link between CDC42 and the inflammasome sensor pyrin, mutated in the hereditary autoinflammatory syndrome familial Mediterranean fever. We demonstrate that the region surrounding residue T43 of CDC42 interacts with the carboxyl-terminal B30.2 domain of pyrin and regulates its localization and activation. The p.T43I substitution strengthens the CDC42-pyrin interaction through additional van der Waals interactions, leading to increased pyrin inflammasome activation, as evidenced by increased ASC (apoptosis-associated speck-like protein containing a caspase activating and recruitment domain) speck formation, enhanced pyroptosis, and excessive interleukin-1β (IL-1β) and IL-18 production. These findings identify CDC42 as a pyrin ligand and provide critical insights into the role of the pyrin B30.2 domain in inflammasome activation, suggesting dual regulation of pyrin by two RHO family GTPases, RHOA and CDC42.
CDC42 is an evolutionarily conserved guanosine triphosphatase (GTPase) regulating critical cellular and immune processes. Variants in CDC42 therefore cause a spectrum of developmental phenotypes, including hematological and immunological symptoms. Here, we identify a previously unrecognized autoinflammatory condition caused by CDC42Met45→Leu(M45L). We confirm the pathogenicity of CDC42M45L given that it promotes pyrin inflammasome activation, consistent with highly elevated circulating interleukin-18 (IL-18) in all affected individuals. Coimmunoprecipitation demonstrates that CDC42 interacts with the PYD and B30.2 domains of pyrin. The B30.2 interaction is greatly enhanced by CDC42M45L. Models show that CDC42 methionine-45 sits in a hydrophobic cleft of the pyrin B30.2 domain, and substitution with a negatively charged residue prevents colocalization between CDC42 and pyrin. This study supports a model whereby CDC42 nucleates pyrin via the B30.2 domain, after which a threshold is reached to liberate the PYD for inflammasome activation. Blocking the inflammasome-associated cytokine IL-1 was therapeutically effective when tested against this autoinflammatory CDC42M45L endotype.
The epidermis is a stratified epithelium in which keratinocytes differentiate as they move from basal to suprabasal layers, a process during which tissue integrity relies on the coordinated remodeling of intercellular junctions and the cytoskeleton. Unlike simple epithelia, which form a continuous zonula adherens, suprabasal cells in the epidermis lack a canonical junction belt, with E-cadherin-based junctions distributed across the entire cell surface, highlighting distinct regulatory mechanisms that remain poorly understood. Here, we identify the CDC42 guanine nucleotide exchange factor FGD1, mutated in Aarskog-Scott syndrome, as a regulator of suprabasal junction architecture. Using stratified human keratinocytes and quantitative imaging, we show that loss of FGD1 induces elongated radial actin bundles and tortuous, tension-associated adherens junctions resembling the stress fiber-anchored discontinuous (focal) adherens junctions described in endothelial cells. These defects are accompanied by altered tissue mechanics. Inhibition of ROCK or myosin II restores junction organization, demonstrating that FGD1 restrains actomyosin contractility to promote suprabasal junction maturation. Several disease-associated FGD1 variants fail to rescue these defects. Together, our findings identify FGD1 as a regulator of suprabasal junction maturation.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42561912 is a review article
Objective: Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a complex endocrine disorder associated with hyperandrogenism and insulin resistance. Although its reproductive and metabolic consequences are well established, research on the impact of PCOS on cognitive function remains inconsistent. This study aimed to evaluate the cognitive profiles across multiple domains in young, treatment-naïve patients with PCOS. Method: This cross-sectional study included 35 patients with PCOS (aged 18-35 years) and 30 age-matched healthy controls from Northern India. Participants underwent standardized computer-based psychometric testing using the Digit Span Test (DST), Trail Making Test (TMT), and Continuous Performance Test-Identical Pairs (CPT-IP) to assess their short-term memory, executive function, and attention. Results: Patients with PCOS demonstrated significantly lower performance in all DST metrics, including Two-Error Maximal Length (TEML; p < .0001; Hedges' g = 2.18; CI: 1.57-2.80) and Mean Span (MS; p < 0.0001; Hedges' g = 2.43; CI = 1.79-3.07), indicating decreased short-term and working memory. In the CPT-IP, the PCOS group showed significantly reduced hit rates and lower sensitivity scores (d', p < .0001, Hedges' g = 2.38; CI = 1.74-3.02), reflecting deficits in sustained attention and stimulus discriminability. While the PCOS group took longer to complete the TMT task both in trails 1 and 2, the differences in executive functioning did not reach statistical significance (p > .05). Conclusions: Young, treatment-naïve North Indian women with PCOS exhibit distinct cognitive decrements, particularly in the short-term memory and attention domains. While these initial findings are striking, larger long-term studies are required to confirm the true extent of these cognitive shifts.
Many primary aldosteronism (PA) patients harbor concomitant mild autonomous cortisol secretion (MACS), termed "Connshing syndrome." The prevalence and cardiometabolic impact of this co-secretion have not been quantitatively synthesized.To determine the pooled prevalence of MACS in PA and evaluate its association with cardiovascular (CV) events, type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), and obesity.PubMed, Embase, Cochrane, Web of Science, and Scopus through January 2026.Following PRISMA 2020 and MOOSE guidelines (PROSPERO: CRD420261334965), studies reporting MACS prevalence [post-1 mg dexamethasone suppression test (DST) cortisol ≥1.8 μg/dl] in PA were included. Prevalence was pooled using random-effects models. Odds ratios (ORs) were calculated for cardiometabolic outcomes. Certainty was evaluated using GRADE.Fourteen studies (2356 patients) were included. Pooled MACS prevalence was 26.2% [95% confidence interval (CI): 24.1-28.4; I2 = 24.2%; prediction interval: 21.6-31.4%], consistent across European (27.0%) and East Asian (25.2%) cohorts (P = 0.62). MACS + PA patients had higher odds of CV events (OR 1.60; 95% CI: 1.07-2.38; P = 0.021) and T2DM (OR 1.37; 95% CI: 1.00-1.86; P = 0.048), but not obesity (OR 1.10; P = 0.411). Sensitivity analyses confirmed robustness. GRADE certainty was moderate for prevalence and low for CV events.Approximately one in four PA patients has MACS, associated with a 60% higher CV event risk. These findings support routine DST screening in PA and have implications for perioperative management and cardiometabolic risk stratification.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Class I PI3Kβ is critical in controlling platelet activation and preserving thrombus stability under high shear. PI3Kβ is unique among class I phosphoinositide 3-kinases (PI3Ks) in being activated by Rho-family GTPases Rac and Cdc42, positioning it as a potential key link between Rho-family GTPases and platelet signaling. Here, we combined pharmacological inhibition with genetic approaches to define a direct Rho-PI3Kβ signaling axis in mouse platelets. Platelets from knockin mice carrying two point mutations within the Rho-binding domain (RBD) of the PI3Kβ catalytic subunit p110β exhibited impaired GPVI-mediated platelet signaling, functional responses, and spreading on fibrinogen. Pharmacological inhibition with the PI3Kβ-selective inhibitor AZD6482 demonstrated that these responses largely depend on the p110β RBD. Inhibition of Rac/Cdc42 in wild-type platelets phenocopied the knockin defects, supporting a direct role for Rho GTPases in PI3Kβ activation. Conversely, Rac activation was impaired in RBD-mutant and AZD6482-treated platelets, revealing a Rac-PI3Kβ feedback loop that amplifies GPVI-dependent platelet activation.© 2026 Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42563454 is a review article
Human babesiosis is an emerging disease in North America caused by the red blood cell (RBC)-infecting parasite Babesia microti. Despite a rise in clinical cases in recent years, the pathogenesis and host immune response to B. microti infection remain unclear. CD47 is a 'marker of self' transmembrane glycoprotein expressed on cell membranes that inhibits phagocytosis through interactions with macrophage signal-regulatory protein alpha (SIRPα). We posit that disruption of CD47-SIRPα signalling will induce macrophage uptake of Babesia-infected RBCs and reduce parasitaemia in susceptible hosts. To evaluate this, we compared the in vivo clearance of B. microti in CD47 knockout (CD47-/-) mice and wild-type C57BL/6J mice. Our results showed pronounced differences in infection kinetics between the two mouse strains. C57BL/6J mice showed steadily increasing parasitaemia that peaked at an average of 12%, whereas CD47-/- mice exhibited parasitaemia that never exceeded 1.5% throughout infection. Parasitaemia became undetectable by Day 21 in C57BL/6J and by Day 16 in CD47-/- mice, indicating resolution of infection. These results imply that, in the absence of CD47, growth of B. microti is diminished due to more efficient phagocytosis of infected RBCs by macrophages. We propose that CD47-SIRPα signalling plays a key role in the innate response to Babesia and suggest CD47 modulation as a new therapeutic target for the treatment of babesiosis.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558673 is a review article
During glioma progression, monocytes abundantly infiltrate but primarily differentiate into immunosuppressive macrophages to promote tumor growth. Redirecting monocyte differentiation offers a compelling yet underexplored therapeutic opportunity. In this work, we found M1-polarized macrophage-derived extracellular vesicles (M1-EVs) efficiently induced monocytes to differentiate into anti-tumor macrophages via tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α)-mediated signaling. Despite promising, the therapeutic efficacy of M1-EVs was constrained by insufficient glioma accumulation and CD47-mediated phagocytic inhibition. To address this challenge, we further engineered M1-EVs with dual-targeting specificity by genetically incorporating a tumor-directed chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) against IL13Rα2 or EGFRvIII together with CD47-blocking SIRPα variants. The resulting dual-targeting EVs (M1-CS-EVs) exhibited enhanced blood-brain barrier (BBB) penetration and glioma accumulation while locally disrupting CD47-SIRPα interactions. In three orthotopic glioma models, M1-CS-EVs elicited a potent anti-tumor immune response and enhanced tumor phagocytosis, significantly suppressing tumor growth while prolonging animal survival. Our findings establish a platform technology for directing monocyte differentiation toward anti-tumor phenotypes, offering a broadly applicable strategy for glioma treatment.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Metastasis remains a leading cause of mortality in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) patients, underscoring the urgent need to elucidate the molecular mechanisms driving disease progression. In this study, we delineated that ZBED2, a zinc finger protein, correlates with inferior survival outcomes and metastasis in ESCC patients. ZBED2 formed phase-separated nuclear condensates that functionally promote tumor metastasis, and integrin-linked kinase (ILK) was pinpointed as a critical downstream effector in mediating the pro-metastatic function of ZBED2. Mechanistically, ZBED2 enhanced the transcription of HSP90AA1, promoted the physical interaction between HSP90AA1 and ILK, and consequently stabilized ILK by suppressing its ubiquitination. Subsequently, ILK promoted PD-L1 transcription and CD8+ T cell exhaustion, thereby creating an immunosuppressive microenvironment that facilitates cancer metastasis. Collectively, these findings establish the pivotal role of ZBED2 in driving ESCC metastasis and immune evasion, thereby validating it as a promising therapeutic target for this aggressive malignancy.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42553329 is a review article
Ontorpacept, a recombinant signal regulatory protein alpha (SIRPα)-blocking fusion protein, has antitumour activity by disrupting CD47-SIRPα signalling. This Phase 1/2 study examined ontorpacept with doxorubicin in patients with leiomyosarcoma.Eligible patients were ≥18 years with metastatic or locally advanced high-grade soft-tissue sarcomas (high-grade leiomyosarcoma in Phase 2). In Phase 1, patients received escalating doses of ontorpacept plus doxorubicin. Phase 2 dose expansion evaluated ontorpacept doses 0.2, 1.0, and 2.0 mg/kg plus doxorubicin. The primary endpoints were safety (Phase 1); and objective response rate (ORR) (Phase 1/2).Seventy-six patients were enrolled (Phase 1, n = 9; Phase 2, n = 67). No dose-limiting toxicities occurred in Phase 1. The most common treatment-related adverse events were neutrophil count decreased/neutropenia (grade ≥3 in 66% of patients). In Phase 1, one patient receiving ontorpacept 2.0 mg/kg had a confirmed partial response. In Phase 2, six patients receiving ontorpacept 0.2 mg/kg (ORR, 18.8%; 95% CI, 7.2-36.4) and one patient receiving 2.0 mg/kg (ORR, 4.5%; 95% CI, 0.1-22.8) had confirmed partial responses.This first study of CD47 inhibition with chemotherapy in leiomyosarcomas shows manageable safety, supporting further investigation of ontorpacept dosing and schedule, in combination with doxorubicin and as monotherapy.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Oncogene SETDB1, an H3K9 methyltransferase, drives tumorigenesis in various cancers. Using endometrial cancer (EC) as a model, we discovered SETDB1's dual mechanisms in driving EC tumorigenesis and mediating immune evasion. SETDB1 knockout (SETDB1-/-) tumor-bearing mice exhibited prolonged survival up to 100 days. Transcriptomic profiling of SETDB1-/- EC cells revealed decreased oncogene expression and increased tumor suppressor gene expression, which indicates that SETDB1 intrinsically promotes EC proliferation by regulating these downstream genes. SETDB1 repressed repeat elements and the interferon pathway, mediating immune evasion extrinsically by inhibiting anti-tumor macrophage infiltration. ChIP-seq analysis showed SETDB1 binding at pericentromeric regions on many chromosomes and numerous ZNFs. Loss of SETDB1 resulted in abnormal cell division. SETDB1-/- tumors displayed reduced proliferation markers (Ki67, pHH3) and increased macrophage infiltration. Mechanistically, SETDB1 promotes CD47 (a don't-eat-me signal) and represses CCL5 and CXCL9 (macrophage and T-cell recruiting chemokines), contributing to immune evasion. M1-like macrophages killed more SETDB1-/- cells in co-culture. Additionally, SETDB1 knockout in mouse EC cells reduced tumor growth in C57BL/6 mice, with increased macrophage and CD4 + T-cell infiltration. Our results indicate that elevated SETDB1 and its targets can predict higher tumor grade and worse survival, suggesting that targeting SETDB1 could be a promising therapeutic strategy for EC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Dual-target c-Met/VEGFR kinase inhibitors have emerged as promising therapeutic agents for cancer therapy, although their underlying antitumor mechanisms remain poorly defined. In this study, we demonstrate that foretinib, a selective c-Met/VEGFR2 inhibitor, triggers immunogenic cell death (ICD) in colorectal cancer (CRC) cells. This process is characterized by the surface exposure of calreticulin (CRT) and extracellular secretion of ATP and high-mobility group box 1 (HMGB1), which subsequently drives the maturation and activation of dendritic cells (DCs). Mechanistically, foretinib activates the p53 signaling pathway, thereby transcriptionally upregulating Death Receptor 5 (DR5), a critical mediator of the extrinsic apoptotic cascade. Furthermore, foretinib remodels the tumor immune microenvironment (TIME) by facilitating DCs maturation and potentiating the infiltration and activation of T cells. Moreover, combined treatment with foretinib and anti-CD47 antibody exerts synergistic antitumor effects. Together, these findings uncover a previously unreported immunomodulatory function of c-Met/VEGFR2 inhibition, demonstrating that foretinib elicits potent anti-CRC efficacy via direct cytotoxicity and immunogenic regulation, and highlighting its considerable clinical therapeutic potential.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42539714 is a review article
Muscular dystrophies (MDs) are a genetically heterogeneous group of disorders, posing significant diagnostic challenges, especially in populations with high consanguinity. Despite advances in genetic testing, a substantial proportion of patients remain undiagnosed. Whole-exome sequencing (WES) has emerged as a powerful tool for identifying causal variants in such unresolved cases. To identify the genetic basis of nondystrophinopathic MDs in Iranian families with inconclusive prior genetic testing and to evaluate the diagnostic yield and mutational spectrum in this population.We performed WES on one affected individual from each of 10 unrelated Iranian families with clinically diagnosed MD. Candidate variants were prioritized based on in silico prediction tools (SIFT, PolyPhen-2, CADD, SpliceAI), population frequency databases (gnomAD, 1000 Genomes, EVS), and ACMG/AMP guidelines. Findings were validated by Sanger sequencing, MLPA, and STR haplotype analysis. Segregation analysis was performed in available family members.WES led to a diagnostic yield of 69.2% (9/13 variants in 10 families) after segregation analysis and ACMG-based reclassification. We identified 13 candidate variants in 10 known MD-associated genes, including DYSF, SGCA, TK2, MAP3K20, LMNA, COL6A1, COL6A2, ITGA7, MICU1, and SGCB. Among these, seven variants (54%) were novel. The majority of cases (84.6%) followed an autosomal recessive pattern, consistent with high parental consanguinity (70%). Notably, a de novo splice-site variant in COL6A2 (c.1053+1G>T) was identified in a sporadic case, confirming an autosomal dominant inheritance. Challenges in variant interpretation were observed in families with variants in tightly linked genes (COL6A1 and COL6A2), highlighting the role of linkage disequilibrium in founder populations.WES is a highly effective diagnostic strategy for genetically heterogeneous MDs, particularly in consanguineous populations. Our study expands the mutational spectrum of MDs in Iran and provides critical data for genetic counseling, prenatal diagnosis, and future therapeutic development. The high rate of novel variants underscores the importance of population-specific genomic studies.Copyright © 2026 Nasibeh Soltani et al. Human Mutation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Rho related BTB domain containing 1 (RhoBTB1) is highly expressed in placenta and functions to deliver protein targets to the Cullin-3 (CUL3) E3 ubiquitin ligase where they are targeted for ubiquitination and degradation. The targets of RhoBTB1 in placenta have not been identified. Using RNAscope, we show that RhoBTB1 is mainly expressed in syncytiotrophoblasts (SCT) in the human and mouse placenta. We employed ascorbate peroxidase 2-mediated targeted proteomics to identify RhoBTB1 binding proteins in immortalized human extravillous trophoblast (HTR8/SVneo) cells. We selected 9 RhoBTB1-interacting proteins to examine functionally. Two of these, S-Phase Kinase Associated Protein 2 (SKP2) and Rho GTPase-Activating Protein 29 (ArhGAP29), increased in abundance when Cullin activity was blocked by the neddylation inhibitor MLN4924 and co-immunoprecipitated with RhoBTB1. SKP2 increased in abundance in CRISPR-Cas9 HEK293 cells that lack CUL3, and in HTR8/SVneo cells after siRNA-mediated inhibition of RhoBTB1. SKP2 was ubiquitinated by a RhoBTB1- and CUL3-dependent mechanism providing evidence that its stability is regulated by RhoBTB1/CUL3. Like RhoBTB1, SKP2 is highly expressed in the placenta. Reanalysis of single cell RNA sequencing data sets revealed that SKP2 exhibits co-expression with RhoBTB1 in SCT precursor cells, SCTs, and cytotrophoblasts. These findings identify SKP2 as a RhoBTB1/CUL3 target in the placenta.© 2026 The Author(s). Physiological Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of The Physiological Society and the American Physiological Society.
Gordon syndrome (Pseudohypoaldosteronism type II) is a rare autosomal dominant disorder characterized by hyperkalemia, hypertension, and metabolic acidosis. Among the four causative genes, CUL3 mutations produce the most severe phenotype, yet endocrine manifestations beyond growth delay remain poorly described. We report a 22-year-old male who presented with chronic hyperkalemia, hypertension, insulin resistance with steatohepatitis, and testicular hypoplasia with elevated gonadotropins, consistent with compensated primary testicular dysfunction. Genetic analysis identified a de novo heterozygous CUL3 c.1207-26A>G splice-site mutation resulting in exon 9 skipping. Treatment with hydrochlorothiazide normalized blood pressure and serum potassium while improving metabolic and hormonal abnormalities. Notably, these improvements reversed upon treatment discontinuation. This case suggests that certain endocrine manifestations in CUL3-related Gordon syndrome may be secondary to chronic electrolyte imbalance rather than direct genetic effects, highlighting the importance of comprehensive endocrine evaluation and sustained thiazide therapy in affected patients.Copyright © 2026 Fatahichegeni, Ansarian, Lv and Fu.
Identifying new drug targets is essential for improving breast cancer survival. The proteome provides a rich source for potential therapeutic targets. This study aimed to identify protein markers and therapeutic targets for breast cancer by using proteome-wide Mendelian randomization (MR).Protein quantitative trait loci (pQTL) data were obtained from four large-scale proteomic studies, including 17,267 circulating protein markers. Genetic associations with breast cancer survival were derived from a large-scale GWAS meta-analysis (37,954 cases, 2,900 deaths). Proteome-wide MR was performed to estimate causal effects of proteins on breast cancer survival, complemented by single-cell expression analysis to identify enriched cell types. Protein-protein interactions (PPI) and druggability assessments were also conducted to prioritize therapeutic targets.Genetically predicted circulating levels of 27 proteins were found to be associated with breast cancer survival. Among these, eight proteins (ADAM15, CD83, SH3BGRL3, SNCG, ANXA1, GRHPR, ALDH2, and MTHFD2) showed the strongest evidence of association, while four proteins (ARG2, RPL14, NFU1, and TXNL4B) demonstrated a strong but slightly weaker correlation. Notably, SH3BGRL3, GRHPR, ARG2, RPL14, NFU1, and TXNL4B were newly identified as circulating protein markers significantly associated with breast cancer prognosis. Druggability analysis revealed that 13 of these proteins were already targeted by existing drugs, offering potential for breast cancer treatment.We identified 27 genes encoding proteins associated with overall and subtype-specific breast cancer survival, providing potential prognostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets, and offering new avenues for improving breast cancer management.Copyright © 2025 Termedia & Banach.
Aqueous humor outflow through the trabecular meshwork (TM) is segmental, demonstrating high flow (HF) and low flow (LF) regions. Here, we investigate transcriptomic differences between flow regions in naïve mouse and non-glaucomatous human TM tissue to better understand intraocular pressure (IOP) regulation.Human eyes (<6 hours postmortem) from two donors were perfused with a fluorescent tracer to identify HF and LF regions and fixed. In parallel, one pair of 8-month-old C57Bl/6J mouse eyes were similarly processed. Sagittal sections from HF and LF regions underwent whole-transcriptome spatial profiling. Differential expression and gene set variation analysis were conducted to identify transcript and pathway-level differences between HF vs. LF TM. Selected targets were validated by immunolabeling.Genes with relevance to TM outflow were identified as significantly differentially expressed in the human dataset, including ADAM metallopeptidase domain 15 (ADAM15), vimentin (VIM), chitinase 3-like 1 (CHI3L1), and several transcription factors (e.g., FOS, JUNB, ESR1). Pathways related to epigenetic modifications were also differentially enriched in human eyes. In both human and mouse eyes, myocilin was significantly upregulated in HF regions, despite greater protein labeling in LF regions of human eyes. In both species, rho-kinase signaling pathways showed increased enrichment in LF regions, while cell stress pathways, and TNF-α signaling were increased in HF TM.HF regions maintain a more active stress response that facilitates greater outflow, whereas LF regions exhibit more matrix accumulation and contractility. This characterization of segmental flow regions can inform future studies to target trabecular outflow and lower IOP.
Memory-phenotype (MP) CD4+ T lymphocytes develop from peripheral naive precursors via self-recognition at homeostasis. While MP cells exert innate immune function in infectious and autoimmune contexts, their functional significance in ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI) remains unclear. Here we show that blood-circulating MP lymphocytes rapidly infiltrate the gut in the absence of antigen recognition during intestinal IRI. This MP migration is directed by α4β7 that binds to vascular MAdCAM-1, with the latter's expression immediately upregulated by IRI-induced TNF-α. Once accumulated in the gut, MP cells respond to IL-12 to produce IFN-γ that elevates CXCL1 and CXCL2 levels and orchestrates neutrophils, thereby exaggerating tissue injury. Furthermore, such innate MP responses are operative in hepatic but not renal IRI. Together, our results reveal blood-circulating MP cells as a unique innate amplifier of IRI that rapidly accumulates in the gut to exacerbate tissue injury via neutrophil orchestration.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Gut dysbiosis compromises cancer immunosurveillance by downregulating ileal mucosal addressin cell adhesion molecule 1 (MAdCAM-1), but the metabolic landscape associated with gut dysbiosis remains elusive. Here, we show that antibiotics (ABX) or ABX-associated Enterocloster species lead to the loss of secondary bile acids (BAs) including deoxycholic acid (DCA) and the accumulation of tauro-conjugated primary BAs (tauro-chenodeoxycholic acid [TCDCA] and tauro-β-muricholic acid [T-βMCA]) from the alternative pathway in the plasma of patients and mice. Fecal microbial transplantation (FMT), the ileum-specific farnesoid X receptor (FXR) agonist fexaramine, or glycodeoxycholic acid (GDCA) compensated dysbiosis-associated BA abnormalities and circumvent primary resistance to PD-1 blockade. GDCA curtailed ABX-induced MAdCAM-1 downregulation and T cell exhaustion in tumors. Subclinical cholestasis defined by elevation of γ-glutamyl transferase (γGT) correlated with increased TCDCA and decreased soluble MAdCAM-1 in plasma and predicted poor survival in multivariate analyses in six cohorts of patients who received immunotherapy. Hence, subclinical cholestasis accompanies gut dysbiosis, paving the way to immunoresistance.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42480857 is a review article
The development of the complex nervous system is strictly controlled by diverse isoforms produced from individual genes, but the underlying machinery remains unclear. Our long-read cDNA sequencing of mouse cerebellar granule cell progenitors (GCPs) identifies more than 700 genes with high isoform diversity. One such gene, Meis1, produces MEIS1-FL and MEIS1-HdL isoforms, which include and lack the homeodomain, respectively. Our previous study showed that MEIS1-FL localizes to nuclei and promotes ATOH1 protein degradation through transcriptional regulation, thereby promoting GCP differentiation. In contrast, our in vivo electroporation experiments in the postnatal mouse cerebellum show that MEIS1-HdL inhibits GCP differentiation. MEIS1-HdL localizes in the cytoplasm and inhibits the degradation of ATOH1 mediated by CUL3, which is a newly identified E3 ligase for ATOH1. MEIS1-HdL enhances the binding of the COP9 signalosome to CUL3, which suppresses ATOH1 polyubiquitination. This study demonstrates that functionally antagonistic isoforms derived from a single gene cleverly control neural progenitor differentiation.Copyright: © 2026 Owa et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Microglia-mediated neuroinflammation and oxidative stress are pivotal drivers of secondary injury following traumatic brain injury (TBI). While neddylation governs essential cellular functions, its specific contribution to microglial activation and TBI pathology remains poorly understood.We integrated bulk microglial RNA sequencing profiles with single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) datasets from TBI mouse brains. To assess therapeutic potential, we employed a controlled cortical impact mouse model and treated animals with the neddylation inhibitor MLN4924. The role of microglia was validated using microglia-depleted mice. Mechanistically, a combinatorial approach utilizing AlphaFold 3 molecular docking predictions, quantitative proteomics, and immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry was performed to identify molecular targets.We revealed a specific and robust up-regulation of neddylation exclusively within microglial clusters. Pharmacological inhibition of neddylation using MLN4924 significantly ameliorated neurological deficits, attenuated brain edema, and preserved blood-brain barrier integrity. Crucially, these neuroprotective benefits were abrogated in microglia-depleted mice, pinpointing microglia as the primary cellular target. We identified the glutamate-cysteine ligase modifier subunit (GCLM) as a novel substrate of the CUL3-KLHL12 E3 ligase complex. MLN4924 inhibits CUL3 neddylation, thereby impeding the CUL3-KLHL12-mediated ubiquitination and degradation of GCLM. Consequently, GCLM stabilization restores intracellular glutathione synthesis, effectively scavenging reactive oxygen species and mitigating neuroinflammation.Our findings characterize the Neddylation-CUL3-KLHL12-GCLM axis as a critical regulator of microglial redox homeostasis and highlight this pathway as a promising therapeutic target for TBI intervention.© 2026. The Author(s).
Mechanical forces such as tension and compression play a central role in the growth and morphogenesis of tissues. Cell-cell junctions and the actin cytoskeleton are key mediators of mechanical forces and influence the activity of signaling networks, including the Hippo pathway. Here, we show that the mechanosensitive protein Zyxin (Zyx) localizes predominantly to adherens junctions (AJs) and basal spot junctions (BSJs) of Drosophila epithelial tissues. At these subcellular locations, Zyx works in concert with Ajuba to limit Hpo signaling and promote Drosophila epithelial tissue growth. Zyx recruits both Ajuba and the central Hpo pathway kinase Warts (Wts) to AJs and BSJs, which likely limits Wts activity by segregating it from Hpo pathway activator proteins. We further show that Zyx's association with cell-cell junctions is promoted by cytoskeletal tension and that Zyx supports the transmission of actomyosin tension to AJs in growing epithelial tissues. These findings indicate the conservation of this function. Thus, we provide new insights into how Zyx couples mechanical cues to Hpo pathway-dependent tissue growth and highlight the importance of BSJs and their associated actomyosin network in epithelial tissue development.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Sodium overload has recently emerged as a critical metabolic stressor involved in cancer progression; however, its molecular characteristics and clinical relevance in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) remain unexplored. RNA-seq data sets, clinical annotations, and mutational profiles of AML patients were annotations from The Cancer Genome Atlas and integrated with Genotype-Tissue Expression normal samples. Sodium overload-related genes (SORGs) were obtained from GeneCards. Differentially expressed SORGs (DESORGs) screened by applying the limma statistical model, followed by univariate Cox proportional hazards regression, consensus clustering, functional enrichment, immune infiltration analysis, and pathway evaluation. A prognostic signature was developed through least absolute shrinkage and selection operator regression followed by multivariate Cox modeling. The model's performance was further verified in two external GEO data sets (GSE71014 and GSE37642). Nomogram construction, subgroup analysis, tumor mutational burden (TMB) assessment, drug sensitivity prediction, transcription factor (TF) analysis, and competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) network analyses were also performed. A total of 57 DESORGs were identified, and 2 sodium overload-related molecular subtypes exhibited distinct survival, immune infiltration, and inflammatory pathway activation. A robust four-gene signature (DOCK1, GABRE, HTR7, ACSM1) stratified patients into high- and low-risk categories with significantly different survival across training and validation cohorts. High-risk patients displayed increased immune infiltration, higher TMB, reduced sensitivity to multiple chemotherapeutic drugs, and inferior predicted response to PD-L1 blockade. TF and ceRNA networks revealed multilayered transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulation of the signature genes. This study identifies sodium overload-related molecular heterogeneity in AML and establishes a validated four-gene prognostic signature that integrates genomic, immunologic, and therapeutic features, offering potential utility for personalized risk assessment and treatment optimization.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
In the developing human placenta, three subtypes of trophoblast cells, cytotrophoblasts (CTBs), extravillous trophoblasts (EVTs), and syncytiotrophoblasts (STBs), mediate critical functions essential for a successful pregnancy. CTBs constitute the stem/progenitor compartment and differentiate into STBs and EVTs within the floating and anchoring villi, respectively. STBs establish the maternal-fetal exchange interface and secrets human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG), a hormone vital for the maintenance of early pregnancy. EVTs anchor the maternal endometrium and invade the uterine tissue to remodel maternal cells, supporting implantation and progression of pregnancy. In this study, we used human trophoblast stem cells (hTSCs) as a model system and performed quantitative, label-free liquid chromatography tandem Mass Spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) to profile proteome and phosphoproteome in TSC stem state (analogous to undifferentiated CTBs) and following their differentiation to STBs and EVTs. Through a multiomics approach, we integrated our proteomics data with global gene expression profiles to correlate cell type specific gene and protein expression during human trophoblast development. We also identified global phosphoproteome and analyzed kinases that are specifically active in hTSC stem state, as well as in differentiated STBs and EVTs. We experimentally validated specific kinases, such as BUB1B, PAK6, PKYMT1 and TNIK are essential for maintaining the hTSC stem state. Additionally, atypical protein kinase C isoforms PKC zeta is essential for STB development, while PTK2B, SRC, TRIO and LYN are important for EVT development. Our findings highlight key kinases uniquely required for specific stages of trophoblast development during human placentation and suggest that pharmacological inhibition of these kinases could negatively impact the placentation process during pregnancy.
Over 600,000 cases of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) are diagnosed globally each year. Many HNSCCs overexpress the ERBB family member EGFR, and EGFR inhibitors (EGFRis) and pan-ERBB inhibitors (ERBBis) are clinically active in treatment of locally advanced, metastatic or recurrent HNSCC. However, resistance to these inhibitors typically develops, often associated with epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Aurora kinase A (AURKA), a mitotic regulator with expanded signaling functions in tumors, has been reported to reverse EGFR resistance in EGFR-mutated lung cancer. To identify strategies to overcome resistance in HNSCC, we developed HNSCC cell models that were treatment-naïve parental, or selected for resistance to the EGFRi erlotinib, or the ERBBi afatinib. The resistant HNSCC models had typically undergone partial EMT, consistent with clinical resistance, associated with upregulation of the AURKA partner protein NEDD9. Synergy of the AURKA inhibitor VIC-1911 with erlotinib or afatinib in parental models was reduced in resistant models in short term growth assays. In longer term clonogenic assays and in vivo, cells selected for EGFRi/ERBBi resistance showed heightened sensitivity to VIC-1911, contributing to reduced synergy. Based on increased AURKA dependence, we compared combination of VIC-1911 with adavosertib, an inhibitor of the cell cycle checkpoint regulator WEE1, in parental versus resistant models. These showed a combination effect both in vitro and in vivo, that was retained in ERBBi-resistant xenografts, suggesting the potential value of combined AURKA and WEE1 inhibitor use in patients with ERBB inhibitor-resistant HNSCC.
Vasculogenic mimicry (VM) is a non-endothelial mode of tumor vascularization in which aggressive cancer cells form vessel-like networks that support microcirculation, metastasis, and resistance to anti-angiogenic therapies. VM is particularly prominent in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), but its molecular regulators remain incompletely understood. Focal adhesion kinase (FAK) and its paralog, proline-rich tyrosine kinase 2 (Pyk2), are closely related non-receptor tyrosine kinases implicated in epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT), invasion, and metastasis in TNBC. However, their roles in VM have not been defined. Here we perform transcriptomic analysis of FAK and Pyk2 clinical expression patterns using TNMplot V2, DepMap, and patient cohort datasets to systematically dissect the distinct contributions of FAK and Pyk2 to VM in TNBC. Our in vitro tube formation assay shows that in TNBC cells, knockdown of FAK, but not Pyk2, results in failure to form robust 3D vessel-like networks in Matrigel. Similarly, overexpression of Pyk2, but not FAK, in TNBC cells results in poor vessel-like network formation. Consistent with these findings, analysis of two independent patient cohorts (TCGA-BRCA and METABRIC) revealed selective upregulation of FAK in TNBC, while Pyk2 was inversely associated with vasculogenic-mimicry-associated gene expression, supporting the opposing roles of the two kinases in patient tumors. Taken together, these findings establish that FAK and Pyk2 govern VM through non-redundant, kinase-specific, and functionally opposed mechanisms: FAK acting as a positive regulator of VM, and Pyk2 as a context dependent suppressor of VM at elevated levels. These results nominate FAK as a candidate target for suppressing VM-driven tumor perfusion in TNBC and suggest that dual FAK/Pyk2 inhibition warrants caution hypotheses that remain to be tested pharmacologically.
BRAFV600E mutation is one of the most common oncogenic drivers in gliomas, sharing the highest incidence in pediatric low-grade gliomas (~ 20%) and being frequently associated with poor prognosis. Although combination therapies targeting both BRAFV600E and downstream MAPK signaling have been developed, their efficacy is substantially limited by acquired drug resistance. Consequently, identifying the underlying mechanisms of resistance and novel therapeutic vulnerabilities remains an urgent need.Using patient gene expression profiles, immunohistochemistry on glioma samples, glioma cell lines, and a Drosophila glioma model, we identified Protein Tyrosine Kinase 2 Beta (PTK2B) as a druggable vulnerability in BRAFV600E glioma. Loss-of-function studies were achieved by PTK2B knockdown in DBTRG-05MG cells and Fak knockout in Drosophila, assessing effects on tumor survival/proliferation. The underlying signaling mechanisms were investigated using RNA sequencing, proteomics and a suite of assays (e.g., Western blot, immunofluorescence, flow cytometry). Finally, the reciprocal compensatory mechanism between PTK2B and MAPK signaling was established in both cellular and Drosophila models, and the synergistic effect of their co-inhibition was validated in DBTRG-05MG and AM-38 cells.PTK2B and its Drosophila orthologue Focal adhesion kinase (Fak) are highly expressed in BRAFV600E/dRafGOF glioma, and their inhibition significantly suppresses tumor growth. Our studies revealed that PTK2B knockdown triggers potent ferroptosis in glioma cells through endoplasmic reticulum stress-induced autophagic flux disruption, a mechanism which is partially overlapped with the cell death induced by MAPK signaling inhibition. We uncovered the interlocking mechanism between highly expressed PTK2B and hyperactive MAPK signaling in BRAFV600E glioma, wherein suppression of either one prompts compensatory upregulation of the other, thereby attenuating tumor cell death under the stress. Simultaneous inhibition of PTK2B and MAPK signaling achieves strong synergistic anti-tumor effect, highlighting the therapeutic promise of this combination strategy.Our findings establish PTK2B as a critical regulator and co-targetable vulnerability in BRAFV600E glioma. We delineate a novel interlocking mechanism wherein PTK2B and MAPK engage in reciprocal negative feedback regulation, enabling adaptive resistance. This work provides a compelling mechanistic rationale for co-targeting PTK2B and MAPK to disrupt this survival axis and overcome therapeutic resistance.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42438055 is a review article
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 20301702
Error: No data found for PubMed ID 20301500
Cardiac fibrosis is a pivotal pathological process driving heart failure following ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury. STC1 (stanniocalcin-1), a conserved glycoprotein with mitochondrial regulatory functions, remains unexplored in myocardial fibrosis. This study investigates the mechanistic role of cardiomyocyte-derived STC1 in cardiac fibrosis.Mouse models of myocardial I/R injury were established by left anterior descending coronary artery ligation followed by 24-hour reperfusion. Cardiac-specific STC1 knockdown (adeno-associated virus 9-shSTC1) or overexpression (adeno-associated virus 9-STC1) preceded I/R injury induction. Cardiac function was assessed via echocardiography, and fibrosis was quantified histologically (Masson's trichrome, Sirius red) and molecularly (α-SMA [alpha smooth muscle actin], COL1A1 [collagen type I alpha 1 chain], COL3A1 [collagen type III alpha 1 chain], Smad2 [SMAD family member 2]). In vitro, cardiomyocyte-derived conditioned medium was applied to TGF-β (transforming growth factor beta)-stimulated fibroblasts, supplemented with recombinant STC1 for rescue assays. Protein-protein interactions were analyzed via coimmunoprecipitation and domain-deletion mutants.STC1 deficiency exacerbated post-I/R cardiac dysfunction and fibrosis, accompanied by elevated α-SMA, COL1A1, and phosphorylated-Smad2 levels. Conversely, STC1 overexpression attenuated I/R-induced functional decline and fibrosis. In addition, cardiomyocyte-derived STC1 suppressed TGF-β-driven fibroblast activation and Smad2 nuclear translocation. Mechanistically, STC1 directly interacted with the DOCKER domain of DOCK1 (dedicator of cytokinesis 1), disrupting DOCK1/RAC1-GTP (Rac family small GTPase 1 bound to guanosine triphosphate) signaling. Genetic ablation of the DOCKER domain abolished STC1's antifibrotic effects, restoring RAC1-GTP activity and fibrosis markers.Cardiomyocyte-derived STC1 mitigates cardiac fibrosis post I/R by targeting the DOCK1/RAC1 axis via its interaction with the DOCKER domain. These findings identify STC1-DOCK1 as a novel therapeutic pathway for ischemic heart failure.
Identifying disease-modifying drug targets is crucial for developing effective Alzheimer's disease (AD) treatments.We present a deep contrastive learning framework for cell type-specific AD-associated genes identification (alzCL). alzCL creates cell-type-specific representations of genes by integrating human brain single-nucleus RNA-sequencing data with the human protein-protein interactome, thereby capturing both genetic signatures and functional features.By integrating human brain snRNA-seq data, alzCL outperforms the state-of-the-art models by 18% to 24% in area under the receiver operating characteristic curve. Via alzCL, we computationally identified 16, 164, and 221 AD-associated genes across astrocytes, microglia, and inhibitory neurons, respectively. Top prioritized genes (e.g., MAP3K5, P2RX4, and PRKD1) are significantly enriched in multiple AD-associated inflammatory and other pathobiological pathways. By integrating drug-target interaction data with alzCL-predicted AD-associated genes, we identified potential repurposable drugs for AD, including selonsertib and paroxetine.AlzCL offers a deep contrastive learning framework for discovery of disease-associated genes and drug targets in AD.© 2026 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia: Diagnosis, Assessment & Disease Monitoring published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) is a rare, life-threatening thrombotic microangiopathy caused by severe ADAMTS13 deficiency, usually due to autoantibody-mediated inhibition. Its presentation is heterogeneous and often lacks the classic pentad, leading to diagnostic delays. Neurological symptoms may predominate, masking the underlying hematologic emergency. In our case, a 37-year-old previously healthy woman presented with acute headache, speech disturbance, and altered mental status. Despite normal neuroimaging, laboratory tests revealed severe thrombocytopenia and normocytic anemia. Lack of response to erythrocyte and platelet transfusions prompted further evaluation, revealing microangiopathic hemolytic anemia with elevated lactate dehydrogenase, undetectable haptoglobin, indirect hyperbilirubinemia, reticulocytosis, and normal coagulation parameters. A PLASMIC score of 6/7 indicated a high probability of severe ADAMTS13 deficiency. Treatment with high-dose corticosteroids was initiated immediately, followed by plasma exchange and rituximab. ADAMTS13 activity confirmed severe deficiency at 0.3%, supporting the diagnosis of acquired TTP in the clinical context. The patient achieved rapid remission and complete neurological recovery. This case highlights the importance of early recognition of microangiopathic hemolysis and prompt treatment without waiting for confirmatory ADAMTS13 results to reduce morbidity and mortality.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical Case Reports published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558597 is a review article
Large vWF (von Willebrand Factor) multimers are associated with ischemic stroke, and itsthrombogenicity is controlled by ADAMTS13 (a Disintegrin and Metalloprotease with repetitions in the ThromboSpond in motif). ADAMTS13 can cleave large vWF multimers into smaller, less procoagulant forms, preventing spontaneous platelet-thrombus formation. Extensive research has been conducted on the connection between ischemic stroke and ADAMTS13 activity as well as antigen levels, but got inconsistent conclusions. More recently, contradictory findings have been reported regarding the relationship between ADAMTS13 antigen levels or activity and recanalization therapy such as intravenous thrombolysis and mechanical thrombectomy.A thorough literature search was conducted from July 2th, 2001 to April 7th, 2025, utilizing various online databases including PubMed, Cochrane Library, Web of Science, and EMBASE. This meta-analysis aimed to synthesize observational evidence on the association between ADAMTS13 antigen or activity and stroke, and to evaluate its potential influence on recanalization outcomes following intravenous thrombolysis or mechanical thrombectomy. The pooled relative risk (RR) of stroke and the standardized mean difference (SMD) of the ADAMTS13 for stroke versus control subjects, as well as their corresponding 95% confidence interval (CI) were calculated. Eighteen studies with a total of 8,993 participants were included into this meta-analysis.(1) ADAMTS13 activity was lower in patients with ischemic stroke when compared with controls, the SMD was -1.12 (95%CI: -1.20, -1.03, P < 0.001). Patients with ischemic stroke had decreased ADAMTS13 plasma antigen levels when compared to controls, the SMD was -1.32 (95%CI: -1.49, -1.15, P < 0.001). (2) The multivariable-adjusted relative risk (RR) indicated that lower ADAMTS13 levels were associated with an elevated risk of ischemic stroke, the RR was 1.75 (95%CI: 1.4, 2.19, P < 0.001). (3) Ischemic stroke patients who achieved unfavorable outcomes following recanalization therapy exhibited lower baseline ADAMTS13 antigen levels compared to those with favorable outcomes, the SMD was -0.26 (95%CI: -0.51, -0.01, P = 0.04). No significant difference in baseline ADAMTS13 activity was observed between patients with favorable and unfavorable outcomes following recanalization therapy, the SMD was -0.05 (95%CI: -0.36, 0.26, P = 0.75). (4) The multivariable-adjusted relative risk (RR) indicated that lower baseline ADAMTS13 levels were significantly associated with unfavorable early neurological outcome following recanalization therapy in ischemic stroke. However, no significant association was observed between baseline ADAMTS13 levels and 90-day functional outcomes in ischemic stroke patients without recanalization therapies, with a risk ratio (RR) of 0.92 (95%CI: 0.75, 1.12, P = 0.009).ADAMTS13 activity and ADAMTS13 plasma antigen levels were lower in patients with ischemic stroke. Reduced ADAMTS13 levels were significantly correlated with an increased risk of ischemic stroke. Meanwhile, baseline ADAMTS13 antigen levels were lower in patients with unfavorable outcomes in ischemic stroke patients who undergoing recanalization therapy. Notably, lower ADAMTS13 levels are associated with unfavorable early neurological outcome after recanalization therapy in acute ischemic stroke rather than 90-day prognosis.https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/PROSPERO/view/CRD420251229650, Identifier: CRD420251229650.Copyright © 2026 Li, Ding, Gao, Liu, Pei and Piao.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42544464 is a review article
Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) is a rare microangiopathy characterized by mechanical hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, and multiorgan dysfunction, resulting from a severe deficiency of ADAMTS13. Among its rare forms, paraneoplastic TTP remains poorly described. We report here the case of a patient in the intensive care unit presenting with paraneoplastic TTP associated with metastatic prostate cancer. This case illustrates the diagnostic challenge posed by the interplay of multiple mechanisms and allows discussion of the different therapeutic options according to the type of TTP, including the role of plasma exchange in paraneoplastic TTP.
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is frequently complicated by lupus nephritis (LN), but the coexistence of thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA) represents a rare and severe manifestation associated with poor renal outcomes. Differentiating between SLE-associated TMA and primary complement-mediated atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome is diagnostically challenging but critical, as it dictates the use of targeted therapies such as terminal complement inhibitors. A 36-year-old female with SLE, lost to follow-up for two years, presented with fatigue, seizures, and anuric renal failure. Laboratory studies revealed severe bicytopenia, metabolic acidosis, and hemolysis with normal ADAMTS13 activity. A renal biopsy confirmed International Society of Nephrology/Renal Pathology Society Class III LN with prominent superimposed TMA. Despite intensive management with high-dose steroids, plasma exchange, and hemodialysis, the patient's refractory state necessitated the initiation of eculizumab. The clinical course was further complicated by a positive direct anti-globulin test (C3 positive/IgG negative), requiring intravenous immunoglobulin for a suspected secondary immune-mediated anemia. This case illustrates the diagnostic complexity of LN-TMA and the therapeutic necessity of a multidisciplinary approach. It underscores the importance of early renal biopsy and the timely utilization of complement inhibition in refractory cases to mitigate irreversible renal damage.Copyright © 2026, Pokharel et al.
Thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA) is a process characterized by thrombocytopenia, microangiopathic hemolytic anemia, and end-organ injury. Malignancy-associated TMA is uncommon and may resemble primary TMA syndromes, particularly when renal dysfunction predominates and peripheral smear findings are limited. We present a case of biopsy-confirmed renal TMA in the setting of newly diagnosed metastatic squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) following significant diagnostic uncertainty. A 59-year-old man with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus presented with worsening headache, neck pain, dysphagia, shortness of breath, poor oral intake, and significant weight loss. Initial evaluation demonstrated acute hypoxic respiratory failure, progressive renal failure, thrombocytopenia, and a newly identified right-sided neck mass. Laboratory studies showed anemia, elevated lactate dehydrogenase, low haptoglobin, and reticulocytosis, raising concern for TMA. Peripheral smear showed few schistocytes, while ADAMTS13 (a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin type 1 motif member 13) activity was reduced but not severely deficient. Autoimmune and complement studies were unrevealing. Renal function progressively worsened, requiring initiation of hemodialysis. Renal biopsy demonstrated acute and chronic TMA with chronic vascular changes. Additional otolaryngologic evaluation confirmed invasive, moderately differentiated nonkeratinizing SCC of the uvula with metastatic cervical disease. Given the biopsy findings, lack of severe ADAMTS13 deficiency, unrevealing autoimmune workup, and overall clinical course, malignancy-associated TMA was favored over primary thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura and other secondary causes. Renal TMA in patients with newly diagnosed malignancy may present with a broad and overlapping differential diagnosis. In this case, renal biopsy clarified this mechanism, as the limited peripheral smear findings and multiple overlapping causes of secondary TMA had posed significant diagnostic challenges.Copyright © 2026, Schwartz et al.
Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) is a rare, life-threatening thrombotic microangiopathy resulting from severe ADAMTS13deficiency. Congenital TTP (cTTP, Upshaw-Schulman syndrome) arises from biallelic mutations in the ADAMTS13 gene, leading to lifelong enzyme deficiency, often manifesting in childhood and requiring chronic plasma replacement. Pregnancy physiologically decreases ADAMTS13 activity, predisposing affected women to relapses and adverse outcomes if untreated.We report a case of a 32-year-old Iranian woman with childhood-onset cTTP managed with long-term fresh frozen plasma (FFP) prophylaxis. After two early miscarriages, her regimen was intensified to FFP every 10 days. During her third pregnancy, ADAMTS13 monitoring was limited, so surrogate markers (platelet count and lactate dehydrogenase) guided therapy. In the third trimester, when ADAMTS13 reached the lower normal limit, FFP was increased to weekly. She delivered a healthy male infant (3200 g, Apgar 8/10) at 37 weeks + 4 days via cesarean section, complicated only by diet-controlled gestational diabetes.This case highlights that individualized FFP prophylaxis can enable successful full-term pregnancy in cTTP even in resource-limited settings lacking ADAMTS13 testing. Reliance on clinical and hemolysis markers offers a practical alternative for monitoring. Prophylactic plasma replacement remains essential to prevent relapses and optimize maternal-fetal outcomes in cTTP pregnancies.The authors have confirmed clinical trial registration is not needed for this submission.© 2026 The Author(s). eJHaem published by British Society for Haematology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome (aHUS) is not a common thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA) characterized by microangiopathic hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, and renal impairment, often due to dysregulation of the alternative complement pathway. Bone marrow study in HUS is classically hypercellular. However, hypo-cellularity is rarely encountered. We report a case of a five-year-old boy who presented with severe pallor, thrombocytopenia, hypertension, and signs of TMA, including schistocytosis and renal impairment. Infectious and autoimmune causes were excluded. Initial management with plasma exchange and other supportive measures showed no improvement. ADAMTS13 activity was within normal limits, which excluded thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP). Further investigations, including next-generation sequencing and anti-complement factor H (anti-CFH) antibody tests, were negative. To our surprise, bone marrow biopsy revealed markedly hypocellular marrow (10-15% cellularity), indicative of aplastic anemia. Despite escalation of therapy with steroids, intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG), and eculizumab, the child showed no response and succumbed to a pulmonary hemorrhage. The case highlights a rare and fatal presentation of aHUS associated with bone marrow hypoplasia, an uncommon and diagnostically challenging phenotype. It underscores the need for high clinical suspicion, early bone marrow evaluation in refractory cases, and the importance of timely access to complement-targeted therapies. The coexistence of aHUS and aplastic anemia suggests a potential novel pathophysiologic overlap warranting further investigation.Copyright © 2026, Soren et al.
This study aims to analyze the clinical characteristics and causes of misdiagnosis in patients with thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) presenting with initial neurological symptoms, so as to provide reference for reducing misdiagnosis; to explore the feasibility and efficacy of albumin combined with plasma exchange in the treatment of TTP patients when plasma inventory is insufficient; and to put forward key precautions for TTP diagnosis and treatment, so as to provide strategic support for the treatment of similar cases.Clinical data of the patient (medical history, examination results, diagnosis and treatment records, etc.) were collected retrospectively; albumin combined with plasma exchange was adopted when plasma inventory was insufficient; laboratory indicators and symptom recovery were dynamically monitored to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of the treatment; misdiagnosis risks and the current status of alternative treatment were analyzed combined with literature review.Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura with initial neurological symptoms is easily confused with cerebral infarction, and thrombocytopenia of unknown origin is a key clue for differential screening. TTP should be excluded before platelet transfusion; when plasma inventory is insufficient, albumin combined with plasma exchange is feasible and effective for the treatment of AB-blood-type TTP, which can provide an alternative strategy for clinical practice; early diagnosis, timely targeted treatment and multidisciplinary collaboration are the keys to improving the prognosis of TTP patients.Copyright © 2026 Zhao, Cao, Wang, Luo, Liu, Li, Li, Ren, Zuo, Chu, Zhao, Zhao, Xing and Li.
The rising demand for sustainable packaging materials has driven the use of agro-waste-derived bio-fillers to enhance the functional properties of biodegradable polymers. The aim of this study is to extract cellulose from Pandanus fascicularis Lam fibers (PFLC) and assess its effectiveness as a reinforcing bio-filler in polylactic acid (PLA) biofilms for eco-friendly packaging uses. This study was carried out by isolating Cellulose from PFL fibers via sequential bleaching and acid hydrolysis. PLA biofilms containing 0.5, 1.0, 1.5, 2.0, 2.5, and 3.0 wt% PFLC were fabricated using solution casting techniques. The films were characterized using FTIR, XRD, SEM-EDX, TGA, DSC, mechanical tests, oxygen transmission rate (OTR), water vapor transmission rate (WVTR), contact angle, water absorption, soil biodegradation, and UL-94 flammability tests. The results show that the incorporation of PFLC significantly influenced the performance of PLA films. Tensile strength (22.27 MPa) and Young's modulus (11.31 MPa) improved at 1 wt% PFLC, indicating better interfacial interaction, while higher loadings increased ductility. The lowest OTR of 466 cc/m2·day·atm at 2 wt% PFLC, and the lowest WVTR of 84 g/m2·day at 2.5 wt% PFLC shows improved barrier properties. Contact angle tests indicated increased hydrophilicity with higher PFLC content. Soil burial tests showed enhanced biodegradation (~48.6% weight loss at 3 wt% after 4 months), and UL-94 testing showed moderate self-extinguishing behavior (V-2 rating). The findings show that 1-2.5 wt% PFLC offers an optimal balance of mechanical, barrier, thermal, and biodegradation properties, highlighting its potential for sustainable packaging applications.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Cerebral cavernous malformations (CCMs) are vascular lesions caused by the loss-of-function mutations in one of three CCM genes, CCM1 (KRIT1), CCM2, and CCM3 (PDCD10), or gain-of-function mutation in MAP3K3, which encodes MEKK3. Loss of function in CCM genes leads to pathological activation of MEKK3 signaling. Genetic reduction of MAP3K3 gene dosage or pharmacological inhibition of MEKK3 suppresses CCM formation in mouse models, establishing MEKK3 as a promising therapeutic target for CCM.In silico screening was performed to identify candidate MEKK3 inhibitors. Therapeutic efficacy was evaluated using a mouse CCM model with brain endothelial cell specific deletion of Ccm3 (Ccm3BECKO). Drug effects were assessed by micro-computed tomography (micro-CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), gene expression analysis, and survival studies.We identified rebastinib as a potent inhibitor of MEKK3 kinase activity that suppresses upregulation of MEKK3 downstream target genes induced by CCM2 or CCM3 knockdown. Rebastinib exhibited lower cytotoxicity than ponatinib. Administration of rebastinib either at the stage of CCM lesion initiation or after lesion establishment significantly reduced lesion formation and growth in both the cerebrum and cerebellum of Ccm3BECKO mice. Rebastinib treatment also decreased expression of the MEKK3 downstream transcription factors Klf2 in brain endothelial cells. Importantly, treatment initiated after lesion establishment significantly prolonged the lifespan of Ccm3BECKO mice.These findings demonstrate that oral administration of rebastinib effectively suppresses CCM lesion formation and progression and extends survival in a model mouse of CCM, supporting MEKK3 inhibition as a viable therapeutic strategy for CCM disease.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Familial cerebral cavernous malformation (FCCM) is a hereditary vascular disorder associated with pathogenic variants of KRIT1 (CCM1), CCM2, and PDCD10 (CCM3). Among these, PDCD10-related FCCM is considered the most severe subtype and is characterized by early onset, multiple lesions, frequent brainstem involvement, and an increased risk of intracranial hemorrhage. Brainstem symptoms may be the initial manifestations. However, isolated oculomotor nerve palsy in childhood is rare. We report the case of a 17-month-old girl with normal developmental milestones who developed mild right ptosis, strabismus, and impaired adduction and upward gaze of the right eye at nine months of age. There was no family history of seizures or intracranial hemorrhage. Computed tomography of the head revealed multiple intracranial calcifications. Susceptibility-weighted angiography (SWAN) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed multiple cerebral cavernous malformations (CCMs), and follow-up MRI one year later demonstrated new lesions, including pontine involvement. Fast imaging employing steady-state acquisition (FIESTA) revealed hemorrhagic changes adjacent to the right oculomotor nerve within the interpeduncular cistern, suggesting that the partial oculomotor nerve palsy was associated with focal hemorrhagic involvement. Genetic analysis revealed the presence of a novel PDCD10 variant. This case highlights that PDCD10-related FCCM may initially present with isolated cranial neuropathy during childhood and subsequently show rapid radiological progression. Careful longitudinal follow-up is required because of the risk of future neurological deterioration.Copyright © 2026, Murakami et al.
Cerebral cavernous malformations (CCMs) are vascular anomalies prone to hemorrhage, leading to neurological deficits and reduced quality of life. Current therapies are limited, and molecular mechanisms underlying vascular instability remain incompletely understood. MicroRNAs have emerged as key regulators of vascular integrity. This study investigates the role of microRNA-21-3p (miR-21-3p) in modulating oxidative stress and angiogenesis in CCM.Expression of miR-21-3p, NADPH oxidase 4 (NOX4), and vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA) was assessed in endothelial cells and pericytes from CCM lesions of 20 sporadic patients using fluorescence in situ hybridization. Functional assays of proliferation, permeability, reactive oxygen species (ROS), migration, and tubule formation were performed in human brain microvascular endothelial cells (BMECs) and pericytes with CCM2 gene depletion, following miR-21-3p mimic or inhibitor intervention. In vivo effects on cerebral hemorrhage, vascular permeability, dilation, and angiogenesis were evaluated in ccm2-knockdown zebrafish.CCM lesions exhibited decreased miR-21-3p and increased NOX4 and VEGFA compared to controls, correlating with hemorrhage. In vitro, miR-21-3p mimics suppressed proliferation, permeability, ROS generation, and angiogenic activity by directly targeting NOX4 and VEGFA. In vivo, miR-21-3p supplementation reduced cerebral hemorrhage, vascular leakage, dilation, and sprouting angiogenesis in zebrafish with ccm2 knockdown.MiR-21-3p regulates vascular integrity in CCM by modulating NOX4-mediated oxidative stress and VEGFA-driven angiogenesis. Loss of miR-21-3p contributes to hemorrhage, while its restoration stabilizes vascular function. This study identifies miR-21-3p as a potential therapeutic target for CCM, bridging endothelial and pericyte biology with translational potential to reduce cerebral hemorrhage.© 2026 The Authors.
Postoperative abdominal adhesions can cause several complications, such as intestinal obstruction, female infertility, and chronic pelvic pain. By alkaline cauterization of the cecum, we established a mouse abdominal adhesion model to investigate the roles of secreted protein acidic and rich in cysteine (SPARC) in adhesion formation. Alkaline cauterization led to elevation of adhesion scores and mRNA levels of SPARC, monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1), tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), and collagen I on Days 3, 7, and 14, with a positive correlation between SPARC levels and MCP-1, TNF-α, and collagen I during Days 3-14. Histological assessment revealed the presence of fibrillar collagen in the adhesive tissue between the cecum and other organs/tissues and SPARC at the fibrotic sites. Matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-9 and MMP-2 were upregulated in the adhesion group on Days 3-7 and 7-14, respectively, with these expressions correlating with SPARC on Days 3, 7, and 14. A disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin type 1 motif (ADAMTS1), which colocalized with SPARC, was increased in the adhesion model, and showed a positive correlation with SPARC, MCP-1, TNF-α, and collagen I on Days 3 and 7, but not on Day 14. In conclusion, SPARC induction might play important roles in adhesion formation and development.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Stable lentiviral vector producer cell lines represent a promising platform for scalable and cost-efficient vector manufacturing, yet their productivity is often limited by intrinsic host-cell constraints. In this study, we aimed to identify cellular factors restricting LVV production in stable doxycycline-inducible GPRTG producer cell lines and to evaluate whether targeted host-cell engineering can improve vector yield. Comparative transcriptomic analysis of high- and low-producing clones revealed distinct differences in cellular pathways related to transcription, translation, energy metabolism, lipid homeostasis, stress response, and chromatin regulation. Based on differential gene expression, candidate genes were modified by CRISPR/Cas9-mediated knockout or overexpression and functionally analyzed in a low-producing clone. Single-gene KO screening identified H1-2, ADAMTS1, INSIG1, GADD45B, and HSPA1B to increase cell-specific LVV productivity up to 2.6-fold, with H1-2 showing the strongest effect. In addition, combinatorial disruption further improved productivity. In contrast, overexpression of selected candidates did not enhance LVV production. Overall, our results demonstrate that transcriptomics-guided host-cell engineering is an effective strategy to identify and relieve intrinsic bottlenecks in stable LVV producer cell lines.© 2026 The Author(s). Biotechnology and Bioengineering published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is the leading cause of cancer-related death worldwide. Despite advances in surgery, targeted therapy, and immunotherapy, the 5-year survival rate of advanced LUAD remains below 20%, indicating an urgent need for reliable molecular biomarkers for early detection and prognosis. In this study, the authors hypothesized that three consistently upregulated genes could act as effective diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers for LUAD. The authors analyzed transcriptomic data from two independent cohorts, TCGA-LUAD (535 tumors, 59 normal samples) and GSE115002 (52 tumors, 52 matched normal samples), to screen differentially expressed genes. Three core genes-B3GNT3, FERMT1, and SPP1-were consistently overexpressed in LUAD tumors in both datasets. These genes showed excellent diagnostic performance, with AUC values above 0.95 in TCGA-LUAD and high accuracy in GSE115002. Survival analysis showed that high expression of each gene was significantly associated with shorter overall and disease-free survival, and multivariate Cox regression verified their independent prognostic value. Functional enrichment analysis indicated that these three genes participate in epithelial-mesenchymal transition, extracellular matrix remodeling, and immune suppression, all of which are closely related to LUAD invasion and metastasis. The authors further constructed a prognostic nomogram combining the three genes and TNM stage, achieving a concordance index of 0.743 and demonstrating good predictive performance. These findings confirm that B3GNT3, FERMT1, and SPP1 are promising diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers for LUAD, supporting the clinical application in risk stratification and management.
The in vitro culture of immature follicles remains a challenge in reproductive biology, ART, and fertility preservation. This study investigated the impact of α-MEM and SAGE 1-Step media on mouse preantral follicle development and oocyte maturation using two-dimensional (2D) and suspension culture systems. Preantral follicles (∼130 μm) from 14-day-old NMRI mice were cultured for 13 days in either medium under 2D or suspension conditions. On day 13, hCG was added to induce meiotic resumption. We evaluated follicular growth, antrum formation, oocyte maturation, meiotic spindle organization, and expression of genes related to maturation (Bmp15, Gdf9), cumulus expansion (Has2, Ptgs2, Lhr, Adamts1), and apoptosis (Bax, Bcl2). Antral formation was higher in α-MEM in both culture systems (P > 0.05). However, SAGE 1-Step significantly improved oocyte maturation across both systems (P = 0.01 in 2D vs P = 0.006 in suspension compared to α-MEM). Spindle staining demonstrated that suspension culture significantly increased the percentage of oocytes with normal meiotic spindle organization (P = 0.002). Gene expression analysis revealed a significant upregulation of Adamts1 (P = 0.008) and downregulation of Bax (P = 0.01) in suspension culture. Furthermore, the apoptotic ratio of Bax/Bcl2 was significantly decreased in the suspension system (P = 0.01). In conclusion, the SAGE 1-Step medium significantly enhances oocyte maturation, while the suspension system superiorly preserves meiotic spindle architecture and reduces apoptosis. The combination of SAGE 1-Step and suspension culture provides an optimized microenvironment for producing high-quality oocytes.Growing immature egg outside the body, a process known as in vitro follicle culture, is a promising but challenging technique for preserving fertility. This study investigated novel approaches to improve this process, aiming to create healthier, more viable eggs for future use. The researchers found that using a specific medium significantly improved egg development and maturation. Importantly, they found that culturing these immature eggs in suspension, where the follicles remained floating in the medium, rather than in a traditional two-dimensional system where follicles inevitably flatten and partially lose their three-dimensional structure, resulted in significantly better outcomes. Eggs grown in suspension showed more organized cellular structures and reduced cell death compared to those cultured on a flat surface. These findings represent an important step toward reliably producing healthy, developmentally competent eggs outside the body, offering new hope for fertility preservation and assisted reproduction.© the author(s).
Actin cytoskeleton dysregulation contributes to vascular anomalies such as cerebral cavernous malformation (CCM). Talin rod domain containing-1 (TLNRD1) has been reported to interact with cerebral cavernous malformations 2 protein (CCM2), yet the downstream signaling remains debated, as previous studies have described opposite directions of Krueppel-like factor 2/4 (KLF2/4) changes after TLNRD1 depletion. Here, we combined biochemical analyses, structural modeling, transcriptomics, and single-cell network perturbation to examine the TLNRD1-CCM2 axis in endothelial cells. Coimmunoprecipitation and mass spectrometry confirmed the association between TLNRD1 and the CCM complex. Furthermore, protein docking predicted a stable TLNRD1-CCM2 interface (ΔG ≈ -50.36 kcal/mol) supported by prominent hydrogen bonds. Bulk RNA sequencing following TLNRD1 knockdown identified 677 differentially expressed genes, which were heavily enriched for actin cytoskeleton organization, with limited support for activation of the canonical MEKK3-KLF2/4 program. To assess KLF2/4 more directly, we analyzed human CCM single-cell RNA sequencing using scTenifoldKnk alongside complementary in vitro perturbations. Across these orthogonal analyses, KLF2 and KLF4 showed little to no consistent transcriptional alterations. Instead, TLNRD1 perturbation prominently altered endothelial F-actin stress fiber formation. Together, these data support a model in which TLNRD1 preferentially modulates endothelial cytoskeletal remodeling largely independent of overt KLF2/4 transcriptional shifts, helping to contextualize previous discrepancies and refining our understanding of its role in vascular biology.Current management of cerebral cavernous malformations (CCMs) remains limited by an incomplete understanding of the molecular basis of endothelial instability. This study identifies TLNRD1 as a CCM2-associated regulator of endothelial actin organization and cytoskeletal remodeling, while showing limited support for consistent KLF2/4 transcriptional changes. For clinicians, these findings add mechanistic context to a disease with few medical options and may help explain earlier conflicting experimental observations. Although direct clinical application is not immediate, the TLNRD1-CCM2 axis warrants further study as a biologically relevant pathway that may inform future translational research on cerebrovascular lesion progression.© 2026 The Author(s).
This study investigates the impact of rapamycin and propranolol on cerebral cavernous malformations (CCMs). Employing an unbiased transcriptomic analysis, we aimed to comprehensively elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying these drug effects. Mouse Brain Microvascular Endothelial Cells (mBMEC) deficient in Ccm3 were treated with propranolol or rapamycin and were analysed by RNA-seq and immunofluorescence. While propranolol shows limited efficacy in modulating the CCM transcriptomic phenotype in mBMEC, rapamycin demonstrates a significant impact. Rapamycin partially reverses gene expression changes induced by Ccm3 deficiency, restoring KLF2/4-dependent genes like Nos3, Adamts1, and Thbs1. Notably, we observed a reduction in KLF2 protein levels in Ccm3 KO cells treated with rapamycin. We also sought to determine whether rapamycin, especially in combination with the tyrosine kinase inhibitor lapatinib, which induces proapoptotic gene expression in Ccm3-deficient endothelium, can reduce lesion volume even after lesion growth has occurred. Ccm3iEC mice in which cavernoma development had been induced were treated with rapamycin alone or combined with lapatinib, assessing lesion volume using micro-CT imaging. Notably, a combination of rapamycin and lapatinib effectively reduces lesion volume in a chronic CCM model. In summary, our work reveals a mechanism by which rapamycin modulates Ccm3 KO endothelial cells and identifies rapamycin plus lapatinib as a possible combination therapy for cavernomas.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The widespread use of injectable antibiotics in intensive poultry production disrupts gut microbial balance and host immune function, potentially affecting nutrient utilization and promoting antimicrobial resistance. To assess the effects of injectable antibiotics on the gut microbiota, host immunity, tissue accumulation, and antimicrobial resistance in ducks, we systematically evaluated six commonly used injectable antibiotics-gentamicin sulfate, oxytetracycline, florfenicol, tylosin tartrate, lincomycin hydrochloride, and enrofloxacin. Although no statistically significant differences were observed in the feed conversion ratio and organ indices over the 28-day trial, antibiotic exposure disrupted microbiota-organ associations, suggesting subclinical effects despite the absence of detectable phenotypic differences. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay results showed a clear class-dependent accumulation of antibiotics in muscle tissues, with tylosin tartrate and enrofloxacin persisting through day 28. Single-molecule real-time full-length 16S rRNA sequencing revealed a significant decline in Escherichia coli abundance and an enrichment of several Gram-positive taxa, indicating a marked restructuring of the gut microbiota following antibiotic exposure. Antibiotic residues in tissues were associated with drug-specific enrichment patterns of antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) and altered host innate immune-related transcriptional profiles, including changes in inflammatory cytokine expression (IL-6, IL-10, and TNF-α). Furthermore, an integrative microbiota-immunity-residue-ARG network was constructed, revealing a conserved association framework centered on TLR2, NF-κB1, TLR4, and IL-6 as network hubs. Collectively, these findings indicate that injectable antibiotics are associated with coordinated alterations in host-microbiota-resistance interactions before measurable growth changes occur. These results provide an integrative framework for evaluating antibiotic-associated risks in poultry production.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Biaoxu Ganmao Granules (BXGG) is used clinically for wind-cold syndrome; however, its effects on cyclophosphamide (CTX)-induced immunosuppression and the associated pharmacological basis remain incompletely characterized.Two mouse cohorts were used to evaluate BXGG and paeoniflorin in a CTX-induced immunosuppression model. Body weight, thymus and spleen indices, splenic histopathology, serum cytokines, and peripheral blood cell counts were assessed. Ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography-quadrupole time-of-flight tandem mass spectrometry (UHPLC-QTOF-MS/MS), network pharmacology, and molecular docking were used to characterize BXGG constituents, blood-absorbed constituents, and putative targets. Paeoniflorin was selected as a representative blood-absorbed constituent for preliminary in vivo validation, and proteins related to the toll-like receptor 4/nuclear factor kappa B (TLR4/NF-κB) pathway were examined by Western blotting.BXGG partially reversed CTX-associated reductions in body weight, thymus and spleen indices. It also partially restored serum interleukin-2 (IL-2), interleukin-4 (IL-4), and interferon-gamma (IFN-γ) levels, and white blood cell (WBC), lymphocyte (LYMPH), platelet (PLT), and reticulocyte (RET) counts. Network analysis and docking prioritized paeoniflorin as a candidate immune-regulatory constituent. Paeoniflorin improved several CTX-impaired immune-related outcomes and decreased TLR4 expression and the phosphorylated inhibitor of κB alpha/inhibitor of κB alpha (p-IκBα/IκBα) and phosphorylated NF-κB p65/NF-κB p65 (p-p65/p65) ratios in spleen tissue.BXGG ameliorated several CTX-induced immunosuppressive changes in mice. Paeoniflorin, selected as a representative absorbed constituent, partially reproduced the immunoprotective phenotype and was associated with attenuation of TLR4/NF-κB activation. The contributions and potential synergy of other absorbed compounds require further investigation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Maternal obesity and viral infection induce placental inflammation, but how their co-exposure influence fetoplacental development remains unclear. We hypothesised that maternal high fat (HF) diet and viral infection would independently induce placental inflammation and lipid peroxidation, reduce antioxidant defence, and cellular turnover. Further, HF diet would compromise placental capacity to adapt to infection.Female C57BL/6J mice were fed a control (CON) or 62% HF diet six weeks before and throughout pregnancy and injected with poly(I:C) (viral mimic) or vehicle (VEH) 24 h before sacrifice at gestational days (GD) 12.5, 15.5, and 18.5 (n = 5-8/group/GD). Placental inflammasome (NLRP3), oxidative stress (4-HNE), antioxidant defence (GPx-4), and cellular proliferation-to-death ratio (Ki-67, Caspase-3) were assessed by immunohistochemistry, and mRNA expression of Tlr3, Irf3, Tlr4, Tirap, and Il-1β were measured by qPCR. Data were analysed by linear mixed models (p ≤ 0.05).At GD12.5, infection was associated with increased Tlr3 mRNA and immunoreactive (ir)-4-HNE, and reduced ir-GPx-4 expression in the placental labyrinth zone (LZ). By GD15.5, HF diet was associated with increased ir-NLRP3 in both LZ and junctional zones (JZ). Exposure to infection alone and co-exposure to HF diet and infection further increased LZ ir-NLRP3. At GD18.5, HF diet was associated with increased Tirap and Il-1β mRNA expression, ir-4-HNE in the JZ and ir-Caspase-3 in the LZ.Maternal HF diet and infection exert distinct effects on the placenta across gestation, suggesting that maternal overnutrition might reduce the placenta's capacity to handle adverse exposures, which may increase susceptibility to poor fetal outcomes.© 2026 The Author(s). American Journal of Reproductive Immunology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Acute lung injury (ALI) is a life-threatening pulmonary disorder characterized by dysregulated inflammatory responses, excessive activation of pro-inflammatory M1 macrophages, severe oxidative stress, and potentially fatal cytokine storms. Conventional therapies are severely limited by poor targeting of the inflammatory microenvironment and insufficient cellular uptake by hyperactivated immune cells. To address these translational barriers, we developed a "cellular hitchhiking" nanoplatform by coating selenium-doped carbon quantum dots (SC) with bacterial outer membrane vesicles (OMVs) derived from the probiotic Escherichia coli Nissle 1917. This biomimetic nanoparticle (SC@OMV) leverages pathogen-associated molecular patterns naturally present in OMVs to achieve precise targeted delivery and highly efficient internalization by pulmonary macrophages via pattern recognition receptors. Following cellular uptake, SC efficiently scavenges excessive reactive oxygen species and promotes macrophage repolarization from the pro-inflammatory M1 phenotype toward the tissue-reparative M2 phenotype. In vivo evaluations using an LPS-induced ALI mouse model demonstrated that intravenously administered SC@OMVs preferentially accumulate in inflamed lung tissues. Moreover, SC@OMVs effectively suppressed cytokine storms and promoted the repair of the alveolar-capillary barrier by modulating the TLR4/MyD88/NF-κB signaling pathway. By synergistically integrating the targeted biological delivery capabilities of OMVs with the potent intracellular immunomodulatory and antioxidant properties of selenium, the use of SC@OMVs represents a highly promising, precise therapeutic strategy for the comprehensive management of ALI.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42564195 is a review article
Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) can cause diarrheal disease in both humans and young livestock, posing substantial challenges to intestinal health. This study investigated the protective effects and mechanisms of encapsulated tannic acid (ETA) against ETEC-induced intestinal injury. ETA was successfully prepared, and in vitro digestion experiments showed that the release rate of tannic acid was 10.27% in simulated gastric fluid, with a cumulative release rate of 78.97% in simulated intestinal fluid after 360 min, indicating its excellent controlled-release property. In vivo, 500 mg/kg ETA was selected as the optimal dose and alleviated ETEC-induced growth inhibition, reduced the spleen weight ratio, and mitigated intestinal inflammation. Histologically, ETA improved intestinal morphology by increasing villus height and decreasing crypt depth, and its efficacy was better than that of TA. ETA also attenuated inflammation by downregulating TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-8 and the TLR4/MYD88/TAK1 pathway, relieved oxidative stress by increasing SOD activity and decreasing MDA content, and restored intestinal barrier function. Additionally, In vitro, 0.6% ETA digestion supernatant alleviated ETEC-induced damage in IPEC-J2 cells. ETA also reshaped ETEC-induced cecal microbiota dysbiosis by reducing α-diversity, increasing the abundance of beneficial bacteria and decreasing pathogenic bacteria, and restored short-chain fatty acid levels. Mechanistically, antibiotic-induced gut microbiota depletion abolished the protective effects of ETA, while fecal microbiota transplantation from ETA-treated donors replicated these protective effects. These findings demonstrate that ETA attenuates ETEC-induced intestinal injury through gut microbiota modulation, providing a promising strategy for the prevention and treatment of bacterial enteritis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Cannabis sativa L. produces a wide range of bioactive metabolites, including phytocannabinoids such as tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), cannabidiol (CBD) and cannabigerol (CBG), which exhibit antiviral activity and modulate innate immune responses through Toll-like receptors (TLRs), particularly TLR4 and TLR7. The cross-regulation between cannabinoids and TLRs can influence the production of cytokines and antimicrobial peptides. Given their key role in orchestrating innate immunity, particularly inflammatory responses and antiviral activity, understanding these processes in bovine immune cells is essential. This study evaluated the immunomodulatory and antiviral effects of extracts from C. sativa chemotypes - THC-dominant (I), intermediate THC:CBD (II), CBD-dominant (III) and CBG-dominant (IV) - in bovine cells. In peripheral blood mononuclear cells, chemotype I induced an enhanced inflammatory response, increasing TLR4 and BMAP28 transcription and pro-inflammatory cytokine expression at both transcriptional and protein levels. Similarly, chemotype IV promoted a pro-inflammatory profile characterised by increased TLR4, BMAP28 and IFNβ expression, as well as elevated TNFα protein levels. In contrast, chemotypes II and III elicited anti-inflammatory effects. Chemotype III decreased TLR4, TLR7, BMAP28, TNFα and IFNβ transcription, although IFNγ protein levels increased. Chemotype II produced a comparable, although less pronounced, anti-inflammatory pattern, reducing TLR4, TLR7, TNFα and IFNβ while increasing BMAP28. Additionally, chemotypes II, III, and IV exhibited antiviral activity in BoAHV-1-infected MDBK cells, significantly reducing viral titres at 48 h post-infection. Overall, these findings demonstrate that C. sativa chemotypes differentially modulate bovine innate immune gene expression and may also exert antiviral effects, highlighting their potential as dual immunomodulatory and antiviral agents in bovine infectious contexts.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
This study explored the regulatory effects of hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α) on the TLR4/NF-κB pathway and intestinal flora in diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome (IBS-D).Twenty-eight Wistar rats were randomized into four groups: model (n = 13), blank control (n = 5), HIF-1α upregulation (n = 5), and HIF-1α downregulation (n = 5). The IBS-D model group received combined acute and chronic stress stimulation for disease induction. On the basis of identical stress intervention, the HIF‑1α upregulation group was additionally exposed to a hypobaric hypoxic chamber, while the HIF‑1α downregulation group underwent intraperitoneal administration of the HIF‑1α antagonist 2‑methoxyestradiol to achieve targeted modulation of HIF‑1α expression.the control group was fed conventionally. Two model rats were euthanized on days 0, 7, 14, 21 to analyze colonic HIF-1α, TLR4 and NF-κB, and feces from the remaining 5 model rats were gathered on days 0, 7, 14, 21, 28 for 16S rRNA sequencing. Gastrointestinal symptoms, mucosal integrity and molecular expression were assessed after 28 days.An IBS-D model was successfully established. HIF-1α expression in the model group increased progressively, while TLR4/NF-κB levels fluctuated but showed an overall increase. The levels of all three markers were significantly higher than those in the control group(P < 0.05). The HIF-1α downregulation group exhibited more severe IBS-D symptoms and higher TLR4/NF-κB expressions than the upregulation group (P < 0.05). At the genus level, the abundance of Lachnospiraceae NK4A136 decreased, whereas the abundance of the Prevotellaceae NK3B31 group, Clostridia UCG - 014, UCG - 005, and Prevotellaceae UCG - 001 increased (P < 0.05).Under systemic hypobaric hypoxic stress, HIF-1α suppresses the TLR4/NF-κB signaling pathway and alleviates intestinal inflammatory responses. Concurrent intestinal hypoxia and inflammatory injury jointly interfere with normal commensal colonization, accompanied by altered gut microbial composition in IBS-D model rats. Changes in HIF-1α levels are biologically correlated with shifts in intestinal microbiota, though direct causal regulation of gut flora by HIF-1α remains to be verified in further experiments.Copyright: © 2026 He et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome (IBS-D) is characterized by diarrhea and is often accompanied by depression, abdominal symptoms, and emotional comorbidities. Preclinical and clinical studies have shown that dysfunction of the brain-gut axis is a key pathogenic factor in IBS-D, yet the specific mechanisms remain unclear. Saikosaponin D (SSD), a major bioactive component of Bupleurum chinense DC., exhibits anti-inflammatory, antidepressant, and antitumor activities, with multi-target and multi-pathway interactions.Acetic acid and restraint stress induced an IBS-D mouse model. SSD (purity ≥ 98%, Macklin Inc.) was administered orally at low, medium, and high doses (5, 10, 20 mg/kg). Visceral sensitivity, inflammatory status, intestinal barrier function, HPA axis activity, and gut microbiota composition were systematically evaluated using behavioral tests, Western blot, qRT-PCR, and 16S rRNA sequencing.SSD significantly alleviated visceral hypersensitivity and depression-like behavior, inhibited the peripheral HMGB1-TLR4/NF-κB inflammatory pathway, and restored intestinal barrier integrity. SSD also downregulated hypothalamic Nesfatin-1/CRH/p-CREB expression, suppressed hyperactivation of the stress-related HPA neuroendocrine axis, and reshaped the gut microbial community structure (β-diversity). Network pharmacology analysis suggested that SSD targets were significantly enriched in brain-gut axis-related pathways.The present results indicate that SSD could ameliorate IBS-D by synergistically regulating peripheral inflammation, central stress, and intestinal microbes via the brain-gut-microbiota axis, providing experimental evidence for its potential application in TCM-based treatment.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) and acute myeloid leukemias (AML) harboring TP53 mutations are defined by extreme genomic instability, complex karyotypes (CK), and poor prognosis. While large-scale chromosomal imbalances are common in CK-MDS/AML, the synergy between focal amplifications of signaling drivers and the disruption of transcriptional regulators remains poorly elucidated.We performed a comprehensive clinical, cytogenetic (GTG-banding, M-FISH, M-Band), and molecular (targeted FISH, NGS) analysis of seven patients with MDS and AML characterized by a recurrent and distinct genomic signature.All cases exhibited highly complex karyotypes on a TP53-mutated background. We identified high-level focal amplifications of EPOR (19p13.2) and JAK2 (9p24.1), predominantly manifesting as homogeneously staining regions (HSRs) or complex "sandwich-like" derivative chromosomes. Notably, these signaling alterations consistently co-occurred with monoallelic deletions of the TCF3 (E2A) tumor suppressor (19p13.3) and copy number gains of the ERG transcription factor (21q22). Detailed structural analysis indicates that TCF3 loss likely arises as a structural consequence of chromosome 19 rearrangements driving EPOR amplification. Based on this data, we propose a conceptual model of leukemogenesis where EPOR/JAK2 co-amplification potentially drives constitutive JAK2/STAT5 signaling, while concurrent ERG gain and TCF3 haploinsufficiency contribute to maturation delay. TP53 deficiency appears to be the primary permissive factor enabling the stabilization of these massive structural rearrangements.Our findings outline a recurrent and biologically coherent genomic pattern within the spectrum of TP53-mutated myeloid neoplasms, demonstrating significant phenotypic overlap with erythroid leukemia features in a subset of cases. Given the small cohort size, these findings are hypothesis-generating. However, this convergence of predicted JAK2/STAT5 pathway hyperactivation and transcriptional disinhibition points to a theoretical therapeutic vulnerability that warrants prospective validation in larger collaborative studies.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Migraine is one of the most disabling neurological diseases globally; however, a significant proportion of patients do not respond to current treatments, or treatment efficacy diminishes over time, highlighting the need to identify additional molecular candidates for further investigation. Recent studies have increasingly focused on the role of neuro-immune interactions in migraine. This study aimed to identify peripheral immune-related candidate genes associated with NAD+ metabolism-related transcriptional features in migraine through integrated bulk and single-cell transcriptomic analyses. Using the PRJEB40032 dataset, samples were stratified according to ssGSEA-derived NAD+ metabolism scores, followed by differential expression analysis, weighted gene co-expression network analysis and protein-protein interaction network construction. LASSO regression, SVM-RFE, and XGBoost were subsequently applied to prioritize candidate genes. CXCL8, CXCR4, CXCL1, and TNFAIP3 showed cross-algorithm consistency and were subsequently incorporated into an exploratory nomogram, which exhibited apparent discriminatory performance within the PRJEB40032 discovery cohort. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that these genes were associated with immune and inflammatory pathways, including IL-17, NF-κB, TNF, and Toll-like receptor signaling. Immune cell-composition analysis indicated significantly increased estimated abundances or activity scores for NK cells, mast cells, eosinophils, and neutrophils in migraine samples, with positive associations between the prioritized candidate genes and pro-inflammatory immune features. Single-cell RNA sequencing further showed that CXCL1 and CXCL8 were predominantly expressed in monocytes, while TNFAIP3 and CXCR4 were widely expressed across various immune cell types. qPCR assessment in a migraine mouse model showed group-dependent expression alterations in the functionally related murine CXCL1/CXCR2 axis. Overall, this study prioritized peripheral immune-related candidate genes associated with migraine and NAD⁺ metabolism-related transcriptional features, providing exploratory evidence for a potential link among systemic immune alterations, NAD⁺ metabolism-related processes, and migraine.© 2026. The Author(s).
The incidence of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is increasing but clinical outcomes remain poor and new treatments are required. IGF2BP3 is an oncofetal m6A-reading RNA regulatory protein whose expression is commonly observed in PDAC and which may represent an important therapeutic target. IGF2BP3 protein is expressed in >95% of primary tumours whilst RNA expression ranges from 3 to 3000-fold above normal epithelium. siRNA knockdown reveals IGF2BP3 to strongly support expression of gene programs related to DNA replication, cell cycle and apoptosis, TNF signalling and epithelial-mesenchymal transition. Direct sequencing of native RNA further reveals IGF2BP3-mediated enhancement of 863 RNA isoforms with suppression of 389 isoforms. m6A, m5C and pseudouridine (ψ) RNA modifications were seen in 97% of transcripts within the PDAC transcriptome and enriched within MYC gene targets. IGF2BP3 regulated the pattern of RNA modification with a substantial impact on m5C modifications of miRNA and scRNA, and genes associated with regulation of TNF signalling. Knockdown of IGF2BP3 expression in primary tumour organoid cultures suppressed proliferation and elicited apoptosis, indicating a critical requirement for IGF2BP3 within malignant stem cells. These data show that IGF2BP3 is expressed consistently in PDAC, plays a dominant role in regulation of RNA splicing and modification, and supports cancer stem cell proliferation and survival. IGF2BP3 therefore occupies a critical position within the RNA regulon of PDAC and represents an important therapeutic target in this tumour of unmet need.© 2026. The Author(s).
Anti-tumor necrosis factor (TNF) medical therapy is a major advancement for Crohn's disease (CD) management, yet many patients fail to respond. This study aims to develop and evaluate a multi-modal ensemble model to predict anti-TNF treatment response in pediatric patients with CD using pre-treatment magnetic resonance enterography (MRE) and non-imaging clinical data.This retrospective study included 92 pediatric CD patients (median [IQR] age, 14.6 [12.7, 16.6] years; 65.2% male; 37 responders and 55 non-responders) who underwent MRE within 3 months before initiating anti-TNF therapy between 2009 and 2021. Responders achieved mucosal healing within 36 months; non-responders did not, underwent surgery, or changed therapy. Four pre-treatment feature sets were used: (1) radiologist MRE assessment, (2) radiomic features from bowel regions, (3) deep learning features from representative bowel images, and (4) non-imaging clinical features. A 2-stage stacking ensemble model was trained and evaluated. The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUROC) was the primary performance metric.The multi-modal ensemble model integrating all MRE-based features achieved an AUROC of 0.771 [95% confidence intervals (CI): 0.745, 0.797], outperforming models using individual feature types (radiologist assessment: 0.706 [0.691, 0.721]; radiomic: 0.710 [0.691, 0.729]; deep learning: 0.724 [0.700, 0.749]). Combining MRE and clinical features (0.739 [0.696, 0.781]) achieved the highest AUROC of 0.817 [0.793, 0.842], though not significantly (P = .10). Radiomic features reflecting intensity distribution and texture heterogeneity were most predictive of treatment response.A multi-modal ensemble model combining MRE-based radiologist assessment, radiomic, deep learning, and clinical features accurately predicted anti-TNF treatment response in pediatric CD patients.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Crohn’s & Colitis Foundation. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP) is a heterogeneous inflammatory disease with variable outcomes following functional endoscopic sinus surgery (FESS). Predictive biomarkers for post-FESS CRSwNP recurrence remain poorly defined.Identify tissue-based predictors of CRSwNP recurrence after FESS and assess dupilumab-induced modifications.From a cohort of patients with CRSwNP (including NSAID-exacerbated respiratory disease [NSAID-ERD]) who underwent FESS, we retrospectively identified 91 who could be dichotomized by clinical outcome as post-FESS "rapid recurrence" (<1 year) or "slow/no recurrence" (>2 years without recurrence). Nasal polyp tissue was analyzed for 69 inflammatory mediators using proteomics and ELISA. Logistic regression with LASSO feature selection identified candidate predictors. In an independent, second prospective cohort of 17 CRSwNP patients initiating dupilumab, nasal fluid was collected at baseline and after two months of dupilumab and profiled for the same mediators.Twenty-three tissue mediators strongly predicted rapid CRSwNP recurrence (AUC >0.70), including markers of type (T) 2 inflammation (IL-4, IL-13, IL-5Rα, ECP, IgE) and innate inflammation and/or myeloid involvement (CCL3/4/7/8/13, CSF2, IL-1β, IL-6, OSM, MMP12, HIF-1α, TNF-α, TNFSF14). Of these, dupilumab significantly reduced IL-5Rα and several chemokines (CCL3, CCL4, CCL13) but had no effect on key myeloid mediators (CCL8, CSF2, IL-1β, MMP12, HIF-1α).Both T2 and non-T2 mediators play a role in rapid post-FESS recurrence in CRSwNP. T2 blockade with dupilumab reduces T2-associated mediators but does not suppress a parallel innate/myeloid inflammatory axis. The persistence of this axis during treatment suggests that innate and myeloid mediators may underlie severe CRSwNP and could influence disease recurrence once T2 signaling is no longer inhibited, representing potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets to improve long-term disease control.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Both diet and aging shape the gut microbiota, yet how their combined remodeling propagates across microbial function to host barrier and brain outcomes remains poorly understood. Despite abundant links between Short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) and intestinal health, integrative studies that connect community ecology with SCFA linked metabolism, epithelial signaling, systemic inflammation, behavior, and test causal reversibility are limited. In this study, we assessed gut microbiota and function alongside host tissues and behavior. In mice fed a high-fat diet (HFD), particularly in the 12-month-old cohort, we observed hippocampal-dependent cognitive and locomotor deficits (longer escape latency, fewer platform crossings, reduced target-quadrant time; lower distance, speed and center time), accompanied by systemic inflammation, with serum lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and cytokines (IL-6 and TNF-α) elevated and associated with adiposity. We then profiled the gut microbiota and its functions alongside host tissues and behavior, finding that HFD and age reduced α-diversity and shifted β-diversity, with a selective depletion of Muribaculaceae and depressed SCFA-linked pathways. Muribaculaceae abundance positively correlated with predicted SCFA-related pathways, while qRT-PCR of microbial fermentation genes supported concurrent functional alterations. In the colon, ELISA-measured butyrate level, SCFA receptors Ffar2, Ffar3 and tight-junction genes Tjp1 and Ocln were downregulated, with ZO-1 and occludin mislocalization, while serum LPS and inflammatory cytokines increased and associated with adiposity. Notably, an intervention arm showed that sodium butyrate supplementation attenuated cytokinemia, restored Ffar2, Ffar3 and tight-junction expression, improved ZO-1 and occludin integrity, and rescued behavioral performance. Collectively, these findings support an association between Muribaculaceae depletion, reduced SCFA-related functional signatures, impaired barrier associated markers, systemic inflammation, and behavioral deficits under HFD and age-associated conditions. In an intervention setting, butyrate supplementation partially ameliorated inflammatory and barrier-related readouts and improved behavioral performance.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
To evaluate and compare the effects of topical Maresin-1 (MaR1) and cyclosporine A (CsA) in a capsaicin-induced rat model of neurotrophic keratopathy (NK).A total of 40 Sprague-Dawley rats were allocated to five groups (n = 8 per group): Control, NK, NK+Vehicle, NK+CsA (0.05%), and NK+MaR1. Except for the Control group, all animals received a single subcutaneous injection of capsaicin (50 mg/kg) on postnatal day 2. Topical treatments were applied twice daily for 14 days. Corneal TrkA, TNF-α, and Caspase-3 expression were assessed by immunohistochemistry and Western blot.Both treatment groups significantly restored TrkA expression and reduced TNF-α and Caspase-3 relative to NK+Vehicle (p < 0.05 for all). CsA produced greater suppression of TNF-α than MaR1 (p < 0.001), whereas MaR1 demonstrated greater reduction in Caspase-3 than CsA (p = 0.013), with no significant difference between groups for TrkA (p = 0.054).Both MaR1 and CsA significantly attenuated the neurotrophic, inflammatory, and apoptotic changes associated with experimental NK. The distinct efficacy profiles of the two agents suggest complementary mechanisms of action and warrant further investigation of MaR1 in neurotrophic keratopathy.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Corneal neovascularization (CoNV) treatment via ocular drug delivery remains challenging because rapid ocular clearance and limited tissue penetration result in low bioavailability, reduced therapeutic efficacy, and the need for frequent administration. Although polymer-based delivery systems can provide sustained release, their clinical translation may be limited by low drug loading, suboptimal release kinetics, and potential toxicity associated with polymer degradation products. Here, we developed a carrier-free subconjunctival depot platform composed of pure regorafenib crystals, including microcrystals (∼5 µm) and nanocrystals (∼260 nm), to achieve sustained release through a dissolution/diffusion-controlled mechanism without the need for a polymer matrix. Both formulations maintained crystallinity and their initial particle size during 12 months of storage at 4 °C. Nanocrystals exhibited faster dissolution and clearance, whereas microcrystals provided prolonged local retention, maintaining detectable regorafenib levels through eight months after a single administration. In vivo imaging and histological analyses demonstrated the formation of dense monolithic depots within the subconjunctival space, supporting sustained release and local retention. In prophylactic CoNV models, nanocrystals enhanced tissue penetration and produced greater early inhibition of angiogenic sprouting than microcrystals (p < 0.05). In therapeutic models of established neovascularization, a single 2 mg subconjunctival injection of either formulation induced comparable and sustained regression of neovessels for up to eight months, with efficacy significantly greater than that of 0.5 mg bevacizumab administered at 2-month intervals (p < 0.01). In addition, the 1 mg microcrystal formulation reduced TNF-α, IL-1β, and VEGF expression relative to saline-treated controls and were associated with improved corneal epithelial healing compared with bevacizumab. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that carrier-free pure drug crystal depots can provide sustained ocular delivery for at least eight months following a single administration, while crystal size governs the balance between initial tissue exposure and long-term retention.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Lower limb amputees often experience low back pain (LBP), potentially due to altered spinal alignment and biomechanical challenges from prosthetic use. However, limited data exist on the role of spinopelvic parameters in this population.To examine the relationship between sagittal spinopelvic alignment and LBP in individuals with unilateral lower extremity amputation.This cross-sectional study was conducted in an inpatient rehabilitation unit of a tertiary university hospital. Thirty male participants aged 18-60 years with unilateral traumatic lower limb amputation were enrolled. They were divided into 2 groups: Group 1 (n = 13) without LBP and Group 2 (n = 17) with LBP. Pain was assessed using the Visual Analog Scale (VAS) and the Oswestry Disability Index. Radiographic evaluation included cervical lordosis, thoracic kyphosis, lumbar lordosis, pelvic tilt, pelvic incidence, sacral slope, and spinal vertical axis (SVA). Quality of life was assessed using the SF-36.Significant differences were found in cervical lordosis (P=0.045, 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.17-14.36), thoracic kyphosis (P = 0.009, 95% CI -19.23 to -2.98), and SVA (P = 0.003, 95% CI, 0.11-0.54) between groups. Lumbar lordosis showed a negative correlation with VAS-pain scores (P = 0.031, r = -0.395), while thoracic kyphosis (P = 0.009, r = 0.466) and SVA (P = 0.001, r = -0.561) had positive correlations. Amputees with LBP had lower SF-36 scores in emotional well-being (P = 0.041), pain (P = 0.001), and general health (P=0.014) domains.Spinopelvic misalignment is associated with LBP in lower limb amputees. Rehabilitation strategies aiming to improve sagittal balance may reduce pain and enhance quality of life in this population.Copyright © 2026 International Society for Prosthetics and Orthotics.
Obesity is a disease associated with an increased risk of various medical complications, including cardiovascular problems, diabetes, and infectious diseases. The higher incidence of infections in individuals with obesity is likely due to impaired immune functions. Neutrophils deploy microbicidal functions. However, it is unclear whether neutrophils in individuals with obesity function effectively against infections. To evaluate whether neutrophils in obesity have dysfunctional antimicrobial functions, neutrophils from individuals with normal weight and from individuals with obesity were isolated, and their phenotype and microbicidal functions were assessed. Neutrophils from individuals with obesity showed higher expression of CD66b, CD11b, CD15, CD14, CD18, and CD182 on their membranes. The higher expression of these molecules correlated with higher BMI, suggesting that obesity is associated with neutrophil activation. Accordingly, the PMA-induced respiratory burst in neutrophils from individuals with obesity was greater than in those from individuals without obesity. But, phagocytosis and PMA-induced NETosis were comparable between neutrophils from individuals with or without obesity, implying that neutrophil functions are not impaired by obesity. However, NET formation of neutrophils from individuals with obesity was selectively reduced in response to Staphylococcus aureus. Nevertheless, the actual killing of these bacteria was similar between neutrophils from individuals with or without obesity. In contrast, neutrophils from individuals with obesity exhibited impaired killing of Pseudomonas aeruginosa and of Klebsiella quasipneumoniae. Together, these findings suggest that obesity induces neutrophil activation but disrupts pathogen-specific antimicrobial mechanisms of neutrophils. This deficiency in pathogen clearance could explain the increased susceptibility to infections observed in individuals with obesity.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Society for Leukocyte Biology.
Kinesiophobia hampers positive outcomes in patients with non-specific chronic lower back pain (NSCLBP). Graded exposure therapy is a psychosocial approach aimed at increasing patients' functional capacity by challenging their fears and negative expectations.Our study aimed to evaluate the effect of a graded exposure therapy programme on patients with NSCLBP, with primary outcomes assessing changes in pain intensity (Brief Pain Inventory - Short Form [BPI-SF]) and kinesiophobia (Tampa Scale of Kinesiophobia-11 [TSK-11]) from baseline to post-intervention and secondary outcomes assessing changes in pain interference (BPI-SF).A quasi-experimental pre-test and post-test design was used. Twenty-eight participants with NSCLBP for more than 3 months and a TSK-11 score ≥ 22 were recruited. Outcome measures included the TSK-11, BPI-SF and Fear of Daily Activities Questionnaire (FDAQ). The intervention included a 4-week graded exposure programme and pain neuroscience education in the first session only. Data were analysed using the parametric paired t-test and Cohen's d.Out of 28 participants, most were female (96.4%) with a mean age of 45 (± 8.2) years and reported pain for more than 12 months. Significant improvements were observed on both the TSK-11 and BPI-SF (p < 0.001). Large effect sizes were observed for both kinesiophobia and pain severity (TSK-11: d = 1.73, 95% confidence interval [CI 1.14, 2.32]; BPI Pain Severity: d = 1.21, 95% CI [0.72, 1.70]).Graded exposure therapy was effective in reducing pain and kinesiophobia in patients with NSCLBP in the short term.Future considerations should be given to implementing the graded exposure therapy in conjunction with other physiotherapy modalities.© 2026. The Authors.
To investigate the mechanisms underlying the bone-sparing effects of the anti-TNF antibody adalimumab in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) by examining synovial tissue and its direct effect on osteoblasts and osteoclasts.Paired synovial biopsies from 12 patients with RA were obtained before and 8 weeks after initiation of adalimumab. Immune-cell infiltrates (CD163+ macrophages, CD3+ lymphocytes) and expression of osteoprotegerin (OPG), receptor activator of nuclear factor κB (RANK), and its ligand (RANKL) were assessed by immunohistochemistry. In vitro, the effect of adalimumab on RANKL and OPG expression in SaOS-2 cells (± TNF-α) was evaluated by western blotting. Its effect on osteoclastogenesis and bone resorption were examined using CD14+ monocyte-derived macrophages cultured with RANKL and M-CSF.Adalimumab treatment led to a marked clinical improvement, with median DAS28 decreasing from 5.4 to 3.1. Semiquantitative analysis of synovial biopsies revealed a significant decrease in CD163+ macrophages, while CD3+ T-cells remained unchanged. The RANKL/OPG ratio decreased significantly, which was accompanied by increased OPG expression in synovial tissue. In vitro, adalimumab significantly decreased RANKL expression and the RANKL: OPG ratio in TNF-α primed SaOS-2 cells, while also modulating pro-osteoclastogenic cytokines. In osteoclast assays, adalimumab inhibited macrophage-derived osteoclast differentiation and suppressed bone resorption under both low and high RANKL conditions.Adalimumab decreased synovial macrophage infiltration while it modulates pro-osteoclastogenic cytokines and inhibits osteoclastogenesis. These combined effects explain how TNF-α blockade ameliorates joint inflammation and prevents structural damage.Copyright © 2026 Krishnamurthy, Revu, Neregård, Hensvold, af Klint, Makrygiannakis, Catrina and Parodis.
Integrated single-cell RNA sequencing, spectral flow cytometry, immune-receptor repertoire profiling, and plasma proteomics revealed coordinated peripheral immune remodeling during acute scrub typhus. Patients exhibited expansion of cytotoxic, clonally amplified CD8+ T cells with exhaustion-associated features, depletion and apoptosis of CD4+ T cells, B-cell contraction with enhanced plasmablast/plasma-cell differentiation, and inflammatory myeloid remodeling. CD14+CXCR6+ and CD14+GNLY+ myeloid-cell frequencies positively correlated with bacterial burden, defining prominent immune features of acute Orientia tsutsugamushi infection.© 2026 The Author(s). iMeta published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of iMeta Science.
Mesenchymal stromal cell (MSC) injection has afforded heterogeneous outcomes in knee osteoarthritis (KOA). Herein, a framework that dually correlates KOA patient responsiveness with baseline autologous bone marrow-derived MSC(M) donor batch attributes and baseline clinical and biomarker features is provided. Using clinical trial data (NCT02351011), we demonstrated that MSC(M) with increased immunomodulatory potency are more efficacious. Multivariable MSC(M) genes correlated strongly with responder status and 12- and 24-month improvements in Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Scores. Responder MSC(M) donor batches had unique microRNA expression and ability to polarize CD14+ monocytes in vitro. KOA responders had lower baseline physical activity and trended toward more severe baseline KOA. Baseline local but not systemic biomarkers showed trending correlations with patient responsiveness. 42% of KOA patients were responders at 24 months, emphasizing durability of single MSC(M) injections. Together, our analytical methodology defines critical quality attributes of potent MSC(M) donor batches and identifies putative KOA patient theratypes to MSC treatments.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Non-red-flag low back pain (LBP) is prevalent among athletes, yet field-based triage often hinges on subjective judgment under significant time constraints, or it may be ignored and left untreated.To benchmark multiple machine learning (ML) algorithms using routine field data to support structured triage prioritization for athletes with LBP.A total of 412 symptomatic collegiate athletes were classified into self-management or professional referral groups using an expert-consensus triage framework. Logistic regression (LR), random forest (RF), XGBoost, and LightGBM were compared based on discrimination, calibration, and generalization stability. The final model was assessed with decision curve analysis (DCA) and interpreted using SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP), while Youden's index was used to select the optimal ROC-based cutoff.The RF model showed the most balanced performance, with a smaller generalization gap than XGBoost and LightGBM (8% vs >20%). It achieved a test AUROC of 0.723, slightly outperforming L2-regularized logistic regression (0.702), and demonstrated better calibration, with a lower Brier score (0.219 vs 0.239). DCA showed positive net benefit across clinically relevant thresholds of 0.20-0.60, with a net benefit of 0.294 at the Youden-derived threshold of 0.454, compared with 0.202 for the L2-regularized LR model. At this threshold, sensitivity was 93%, and specificity was 53%. SHAP analysis highlighted symptom history, functional measures, and prior ankle injury as key contributors.This study shows that an interpretable RF-based framework integrating symptom and functional data provides a potentially scalable, probabilistic tool for frontline LBP triage. It delivers acceptable discrimination and improved calibration, serving as a transparent decision-support adjunct to enhance screening safety. Further external validation and implementation studies in diverse athletic cohorts are needed to confirm generalizability.This study was a non-interventional observational study using de-identified secondary data from collegiate athletic records. Prospective registration was therefore not applicable.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.
Although powered orthotic devices are becoming more available and increasingly recognized by the medical community, several factors still prevent them from being widely adopted. These orthoses typically use a simple controller, often termed a "bang-bang" controller, which actuates a motor if the muscle's electromyography (EMG) signal is above a set threshold. A proportional controller that could actuate the elbow mechanism based on the EMG signal magnitude would enable a better human-machine connection. The real challenge for designing a proportional controller lies in the heterogeneity of the types of injury and surgeries used in this patient population, as well as the extent of recovery post-surgery. Neural networks effectively model nonlinear relationships in control system design. Recently, a novel powered myoelectric elbow orthosis (PMEO) was developed and tested on patients with a brachial plexus injury (BPI) that used a bang-bang controller. The report evaluated the possibility of using a proportional controller using a neural network-powered regression (NNR) for this exoskeleton.Data from 31 participants with a BPI were collected after receiving IRB approval. A custom apparatus was designed to measure elbow flexion torque and EMG, while participants were instructed to match their torque to a predefined target (10%-40% of MVC). A 2-layered NNR (2 hidden nodes) with a Tanh activation and 5 cross-validation folds was used to find a relationship between the properties of the EMG (moving average, root mean square, variance, standard deviation, and slope) and the elbow torque for individual participants. The collected data were divided into a training set (70%) and a test set (30%). The root mean squared error (RMSE) for the test set was calculated for each NNR model, along with the training time and prediction speed.A standard computer (Intel Core i5-10500 with 16 GB RAM) was used to train the models. The trained models required 82 seconds (range: 3-332 seconds) to train on 8.2e4 (range: 7.7e4-8.9e4) samples. The test dataset consisted of 3.5e4 (range: 3.3e4-3.8e4) samples. The median test RMSE was 0.39 Nm (range: 0.1-3.09 Nm). The NNR took 7 milliseconds (range: 6-10 milliseconds) to predict the test dataset; 35% and 16% of the models had an R2 > 0.5 and >0.7, respectively.A low-powered office computer was sufficient to train an NNR with training time short enough to be completed in an orthotist's office within a typical appointment time. These data verify that the process can be field deployable.© The Association of Military Surgeons of the United States 2026. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Plastic additives are pervasive pollutants that readily leach into water, affecting human health; however, their toxicological risk assessment remains limited. This study used network toxicology to identify disease-associated common targets in plastic additives, including benzotriazole, bisphenol A, 2,4-Di-tert-butylphenol, mirex, diphenyl ether, bisphenol S, dibutyl phthalate, PFNA, and PFBS. The core targets identified using network toxicology for these plastic additives were AKT1, PTGS2, BCL2, ESR1, and GSK3B. In addition, an integrated in silico toxicity assessment of selected plastic additives using molecular docking, MM/GBSA analysis, and molecular dynamics simulation was performed to assess neurotoxicity, reproductive toxicity, and carcinogenic potential. Molecular docking revealed the high-scoring docked complexes as PTGS2-benzotriazole (-5.047 kcal/mol), PTGS2-bisphenol A (-5.264 kcal/mol), PTGS2-diphenyl ether (-5.078 kcal/mol), PTGS2-bisphenol S (-5.519 kcal/mol), PTGS2-2,4-di-tert-butylphenol (-5.565 kcal/mol), ESR1-benzotriazole (-5.339 kcal/mol), and ESR1-2,4-di-tert-butylphenol (-5.626 kcal/mol). The stability of highly interacting complexes was then assessed through MM/GBSA calculations and molecular dynamics simulations. A more negative ΔGBind score in MM/GBSA analysis indicated a stronger and more favourable interaction. In silico analysis of plastic additive-biological target interactions identified potential carcinogenic, reproductive, and neurological health hazards and revealed key molecular pathways underlying plastic additive-induced toxicity. Further in vitro/in vivo studies are required to validate these computational findings.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Objective: To explore the causal relationships between human inflammatory proteins and hypertrophic scars (HS) and keloids. Methods: This study was conducted based on bidirectional two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis. Data of human inflammatory proteins, HS, and keloids were acquired from genome-wide association study database. The inverse variance weighted (IVW) method was adopted to evaluate the causal relationships between 91 kinds of human inflammatory proteins and HS and keloids, i.e., a forward MR analysis. For the above associations, Cochran's Q test was used to assess heterogeneity, MR-Egger regression and MR-PRESSO outlier tests were performed to evaluate horizontal pleiotropy, and the leave-one-out method was applied to analyze the robustness of the results. The IVW method was also used to evaluate whether there was a reverse causal relationship between HS, keloids and inflammatory proteins screened out by aforementioned forward MR analysis. Results: CD6, leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF), tumor necrosis factor ligand superfamily member 12 (TNFSF12), programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1), interleukin-17C (IL-17C), LIF receptor (LIFR), osteoprotegerin (OPG), and fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23) had significant causal relationships with HS (with ORs of 1.365, 0.506, 1.567, 1.683, 0.621, 1.375, 0.623, and 0.553, respectively, 95% CIs of 1.100-1.693, 0.289-0.887, 1.081-2.273, 1.090-2.599, 0.408-0.947, 1.025-1.845, 0.402-0.966, and 0.315-0.971, respectively, P<0.05). Among them, CD6, TNFSF12, PD-L1, and LIFR were risk factors for HS, while LIF, IL-17C, OPG, and FGF23 were protective factors for HS. CD5, IL-10 receptor subunit alpha (IL-10RA), IL-5, LIF, and OPG had significant causal relationships with keloids (with ORs of 0.744, 1.303, 0.686, 0.603, and 0.715, respectively, 95% CIs of 0.573-0.965, 1.024-1.660, 0.472-0.996, 0.431-0.842, and 0.553-0.924, respectively, P<0.05). Among them, IL-10RA was a risk factor for keloids, whereas CD5, IL-5, LIF, and OPG were protective factors for keloids. No significant heterogeneity or horizontal pleiotropy was observed in the above associations (P>0.05), and the robustness of the results was not driven by any single nucleotide polymorphism. Significant reverse causal relationships existed between HS and TNFSF12 and LIFR of the 8 inflammatory proteins which had significant causal relationships with HS screened out by aforementioned forward MR analysis (with ORs of 0.972 and 0.968, respectively, 95% CIs of 0.949-0.997 and 0.942-0.994, respectively, P<0.05). No reverse causal relationship was found between keloids and the 5 inflammatory proteins which had significant causal relationships with keloids screened out by aforementioned forward MR analysis (P>0.05). Conclusions: CD6, TNFSF12, PD-L1, and LIFR may increase the risk of HS, while LIF, IL-17C, OPG, and FGF23 may decrease the risk of HS. IL-10RA may increase the risk of keloids, while CD5, IL-5, LIF, and OPG may decrease the risk of keloids.
Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV) infection and reactivation in B-lymphocytes are tightly regulated by host antiviral response genes. In the present study, we identify Interferon Stimulated Genes (ISGs) RSAD2 (radical S-adenosyl methionine domain-containing 2) and CMPK2 (Cytidine/Uridine Monophosphate Kinase 2) as key modulators of EBV expression and cellular response during EBV infection and reactivation. EBV primary infection and reactivation lead to a coordinated upregulation of RSAD2 and CMPK2. Depletion of RSAD2 reduced cell viability and limited EBV reactivation, while depletion of CMPK2 led to reactivation of EBV lytic gene expression during latency. Despite distinct subcellular localizations, RSAD2 at the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and CMPK2 in the mitochondria, transcriptomic analysis revealed that both genes functionally converge and exhibit overlapping roles in driving shared immunometabolic pathways, specifically Interferon (IFN) signaling, MAPK signaling, oxidative phosphorylation, mitochondrial function, eukaryotic translation, and ATF-4-associated unfolded protein response (UPR). We show that RSAD2 and CMPK2 knockdown affects IRAK1-TRAF6-TAK1 expression levels, and RSAD2 overexpression downregulates NF-κB signaling by EBV membrane associated oncoprotein LMP1. Depletion of RSAD2 and CMPK2 had significant effects on global metabolites consistent with a remodeling of nucleotide metabolism, glycolysis, fatty acid biosynthesis and degradation of superoxides. EBV reactivation induced formation of antiviral ribonucleotide ddhCTP during lytic EBV reactivation which was strictly dependent on RSAD2. These observations demonstrate that RSAD2 and CMPK2 function in a coordinated ER-Mitochondria-Interferon signaling axis that shapes EBV reactivation and host immune control, including a novel layer of immunometabolic regulation modulating viral latency and reactivation.Copyright: © 2026 Zankharia et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42545866 is a review article
Dapagliflozin shows variable renoprotective efficacy in patients with type 2 diabetic kidney disease (T2DKD). A retrospective clinical analysis confirmed marked interindividual variability in its urinary protein-lowering effects. To investigate the mechanism, drug affinity responsive target stability (DARTS) combined with quantitative proteomics was applied for target identification. Subsequent in vivo and in vitro validation suggested that GSK3β acts as a mediator of dapagliflozin-associated nephroprotection. Dapagliflozin directly bound and partially inhibited GSK3β, and GSK3β activity influenced podocyte protection. To translate findings into clinical relevance, a prospective trial was conducted. The GSK3B rs60393216 polymorphism was associated with urinary albumin-to-creatinine ratio (UACR) reduction after dapagliflozin therapy. These findings suggest that GSK3β contributes to the renoprotective effects of dapagliflozin and that GSK3B polymorphisms may influence therapeutic responses in T2DKD.© 2026 Published by Elsevier Inc.
Interleukin receptor-associated kinase (IRAK)-1 binding protein 1 (IRAK1BP1) is a vital factor in preventing dangerous overproduction of proinflammatory cytokines by the innate immune system. The structure and function of IRAK1BP1 have been well investigated in mammals, yet the piscine IRAK1BP1 is poorly understood. In the present study, the first teleost fish IRAK1BP1 from blunt snout bream, maIRAK1BP1, was identified and characterized, which was composed of a 750 bp open reading frame encoding a protein of 249 amino acids. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that maIRAK1BP1, is a novel member of IRAK1BP1 family and showed the highest similarity to that of grass carp (96.28%). Amino acid sequence analysis revealed that maIRAK1BP1 shared a conserved SIMPL domain. Spatial expression pattern analysis revealed that maIRAK1BP1 was constitutively expressed in various normal tissues including heart, spleen, head kidneys, gill, kidney, muscle, intestine and liver. The maIRAK1BP1 expression in immune-relevant tissues (liver, head kidneys and kidney) and caudal fin cells (MAF) were significantly up-regulated after LPS and bacteria injection. The result from subcellular localization analysis indicated that maIRAK1BP1 protein was localized in both the cytoplasm and nucleus of MAF cells, but predominantly existed in cytoplasm. The activity of NF-κB promoter could be inhibited by overexpression of maIRAK1BP1 in HEK-293T cells. Overexpression of maIRAK1BP1 in MAF cells inhibited dramatically the transcriptional expression level of lipopolysaccharide-induced proinflammatory cytokines (IL-1β, IL-6, IL-8 and TNF-α). In contrast, an increased expression of these cytokines was observed when maIRAK1BP1 was knocked down via siRNA. Taken together, these results indicated that maIRAK1BP1 played an important role in mediating host innate immune response to pathogen invasion, and disclosed the involvement of maIRAK1BP1 in NF-κB-mediated production of proinflammatory cytokines, which provided foundational insights into the conserved role of IRAK1BP1 in teleost immune regulation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a prevalent respiratory disease characterized by airflow limitation, with genetic factors playing a crucial role in its pathogenesis. Effective-component compatibility of Bufei Yishen formula Ⅲ (ECC-BYF Ⅲ) has been shown to effectively ameliorate COPD symptoms; however, its underlying molecular mechanism remains elusive.To investigate the intervention mechanism of ECC-BYF Ⅲ on COPD and identify hub genes.Using the GSEA method, which retains all gene information, and exhibits robustness under small-sample conditions as well as high statistical power, COPD-related pathways were identified. Among the genes contained in those pathways, hub genes were identified by protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis, cytoHubba algorithm, etc. The reliability of the identified hub genes was validated by independent datasets, qRT-PCR in rats with COPD, HUVEC and MH-S cells, molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulations (MD), and surface plasmon resonance (SPR).Compared with COPD rats, ECC-BYF Ⅲ could ameliorate pathological changes and improve lung function. Then, utilizing the RNA-seq data from COPD rats, 106 disease related pathways were identified in the COPD group when contrasted with the control group (FDR < 0.05), of which 72 pathways were reversed after ECC-BYF Ⅲ intervention. Of the 3081 genes in those reversal pathways, 395 genes were differentially dysregulated in the COPD rat samples as opposed to the control samples (FDR < 0.05). Then, six genes (Gsk3b, Ctnnb1, Pten, Met, Pik3r3, and Erbb2) were identified by PPI network analysis, cytoHubba algorithm, and GeneCards database. Two hub genes (Ctnnb1 and Pik3r3) were well confirmed in independent datasets, the COPD rat model, HUVEC and MH-S cells, molecular docking, MD, and SPR.Two COPD hub genes were identified, and their regulation by ECC-BYF Ⅲ was demonstrated. Our results might provide a basis for the study of the mechanism of COPD, and its prevention and treatment guided by traditional Chinese medicine.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Cordycepin, a natural nucleoside analogue, exhibits anti-inflammatory and antitumor activity in multiple malignancies. However, the molecular basis of its action in pancreatic cancer and its potential role in chemosensitization remain incompletely defined. In this study, the effects of cordycepin on malignant phenotypes of pancreatic cancer cells were investigated in vitro. Network pharmacology was applied to identify candidate targets and construct a disease-drug-target-pathway network. Reverse virtual screening and molecular docking were used to predict key binding proteins, while RNA sequencing identified downstream pathways regulated by cordycepin. Target engagement was validated using cellular thermal shift assays, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics simulations. The underlying mechanistic pathways were further confirmed by functional experiments, and the therapeutic efficacy of cordycepin in combination with gemcitabine was evaluated. Our results demonstrated that cordycepin reduced the growth of pancreatic cancer cells and induced G2/M phase arrest and apoptosis. Network pharmacology identified 56 hub targets enriched in oncogenic pathways, including PI3K/AKT pathway. Reverse virtual screening revealed 111 candidate binding proteins, and intersection with hub targets highlighted five key effectors: CDK2, GSK3B, IL2, NOS3, and PARP1. Transcriptomic profiling showed marked disruption of cell cycle pathways, and CDK2 was validated as a direct molecular target of cordycepin. Cordycepin suppressed TNNI2 transcription by inhibiting the CDK2/E2F2 axis. Furthermore, cordycepin acted synergistically with gemcitabine to enhance antitumor responses and promote apoptosis in pancreatic cancer models. Collectively,cordycepin exerts antitumor activity in pancreatic cancer by targeting the CDK2/E2F2 axis to suppress malignant progression and by concurrently sensitizing cells to gemcitabine, thus holding promise as a therapeutic agent.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Ulcerative colitis (UC), a common inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), is characterized by chronic mucosal inflammation. Our previous work established a link between cellular senescence and UC, suggesting that ameliorating cell senescence could be a therapeutic strategy for UC. In this study, we identified dehydrodiisoeugenol (DDIE) as an anti-senescence drug through screening in a DSS-induced colonic epithelial cell senescence model. In a DSS-induced acute mouse model of UC, DDIE effectively suppressed colonic senescence and significantly alleviated UC. Network pharmacology, colonic tissue transcriptomic analysis, and Western blot assays indicated that DDIE's therapeutic effects in UC are associated with the AKT and GSK3B pathways. Subsequent cellular blocking experiments utilizing the AKT activator insulin and the GSK3B inhibitor BIO confirmed that activating AKT or inhibiting GSK3B reversed the anti-senescence and anti-inflammatory effects of DDIE. Our findings demonstrate that DDIE treats UC by inhibiting AKT and activating GSK3B, thereby suppressing cellular senescence and restoring the intestinal barrier. This research offers a novel therapeutic strategy for UC from the perspective of anti-cellular senescence.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Intervertebral disc degeneration (IVDD) is a degenerative disease characterized by degradation of the extracellular matrix (ECM) in the nucleus pulposus, disruption of the fibrous ring structure, and imbalance of the inflammatory microenvironment. It is the main cause of chronic low back pain. Its pathogenesis is closely related to cellular aging and immune inflammation. Aging nucleus pulposus cells release pro-inflammatory factors such as IL-6 and TNF-α through the secretion of senescence associated secretory phenotype (SASP), recruiting M1 macrophages to infiltrate and forming a vicious cycle of "aging inflammation matrix destruction." This study systematically analyzed the molecular mechanism by which kaempferol improves IVDD through multi-target regulation by integrating bioinformatics analysis, animal experiments, and cell models. Bioinformatics screening revealed significant abnormal expression of genes such as AURKB, CCNB1, AXL, NEK6, and PTK2 in IVDD degenerated tissues. Downregulation of CCNB1 induced G2/M phase arrest by inhibiting CDK1 activity, while activation of GSK3B inhibited the Wnt signaling pathway by phosphorylating β-catenin, exacerbating ECM catabolism. Proteomics further confirms that the NOX4 mediated ROS-p38 MAPK pathway promotes cell apoptosis and SASP secretion. Immune infiltration analysis showed that M1 macrophages were significantly enriched in degenerated intervertebral discs, and their secreted IL-6 and TNF-α amplified the inflammatory cascade by activating the NF-κ B pathway. Animal experiments have shown that intervention with kaempferol can partially restore the intervertebral disc height index (DHI), downregulate the levels of IL‑1β and TNF‑α, upregulate the expression of CCNB1 and AURKB (which were downregulated in the IVDD model), thereby alleviating G2/M phase arrest and promoting cell cycle progression, inhibit AXL and PTK2, and reduce macrophage infiltration. Mechanistically, kaempferol inhibits NOX4 activity by clearing ROS, blocking the vicious cycle of oxidative stress‑inflammation; by regulating the NEK6/NF‑κB axis, the expression of MMP‑3 and ADAMTS‑4 is reduced, delaying ECM degradation; and improve the immune microenvironment by promoting macrophage polarization towards the M2 phenotype. In addition, kaempferol can reverse the metabolic imbalance mediated by GSK3B. This study reveals for the first time that kaempferol upregulates core gene networks such as AURKB and CCNB1 while suppressing AXL through the "anti‑inflammatory anti‑aging" dual pathway, thereby breaking the "aging‑immunity" crosstalk and restoring cell cycle homeostasis, providing a new strategy for natural compound intervention in IVDD treatment.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42542193 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42512398 is a review article
Research has shown a sex-specific immune response, with males having a worse prognosis in acute inflammatory diseases. While these disparities were initially attributed to sex hormones, increasing evidence points to a predominant role for X-linked genetic factors. Toll-like receptors and several components of their signaling pathway are encoded on the X chromosome and may contribute to these differences. We investigated whether increase in circulating oestradiol influences TLR-dependent immune response. Sixteen women undergoing controlled ovarian hyperstimulation for in vitro fertilisation were studied. Whole blood collected before treatment, during stimulation and at ovulation triggering was stimulated with ligands targeting TLR2/6, TLR1/2, TLR4 and TLR7/8. TLR2, TLR4 and CD99 expression, intracellular phosphorylated NF-κB p65, ERK1/2 and p38 MAPK, and cytokine production were assessed. Oestradiol levels increased markedly during treatment (48.1 to 1819.5 pg/mL; p < 0.001). Despite this rise, no or minimal impact on TLR2/4 and CD99 expression, intracellular signalling or cytokine release was detected. Only IL-6 and IL-10 in response to TLR2/6 stimulation increased significantly, with IL-6 positively associated with oestradiol variation. These findings indicate that oestradiol exerts a limited influence on TLR-dependent immune responses, supporting our view that sex-based immune differences are driven primarily by genetic rather than hormonal factors.
The protein-protein interaction (PPI) between metadherin (MTDH) and staphylococcal nuclease and tudor domain-containing 1 (SND1) drives oncogenic signaling and tumor progression in multiple cancer types, yet remains an underexploited therapeutic target. Here, we report an integrated computational-experimental strategy to identify small-molecule disruptors of the MTDH-SND1 interface. A focused PubChem library of 4149 2-arylbenzothiazoles was screened using a tiered workflow combining drug-likeness/PAINS filtering, hierarchical docking into the MTDH-binding groove on SND1 (PDB 4QMG), and MM/PBSA-based refinement. Top-ranked candidates were further evaluated by 1-μs molecular dynamics (MD) simulations and prioritized based on pose stability and interfacial engagement metrics. Four representative hits-L1 (2-(4-aminophenyl)benzothiazole), L2 (2-(4-amino-3-methylphenyl)-5-fluorobenzothiazole), L3 (YL-109), and L4 (2-(3,4,5-trimethoxyphenyl)benzothiazole)-were advanced for experimental validation. MD analyses indicated ligand-dependent modulation of PPI stability and conformational landscapes, while MM/PBSA decomposition suggested binding was driven predominantly by short-range hydrophobic packing within the interfacial groove. A quantitative split-luciferase complementation assay confirmed dose-dependent disruption of MTDH-SND1 in a cell-free format with low-micromolar potency (IC50: L1 10.72 ± 1.12 μM, L2 5.72 ± 0.92 μM, L3 11.77 ± 1.42 μM, L4 7.41 ± 1.01 μM) and in a cell-based reporter (IC50: L1 35.71 ± 2.80 μM, L2 16.44 ± 0.24 μM, L3 32.96 ± 2.58 μM, L4 21.93 ± 0.9 μM). Importantly, a linked-luciferase counterscreen (IC50 > 1000 μM) supported minimal luciferase interference. MST analysis further confirmed direct binding of L1-L4 to purified SND1, yielding low-micromolar KD values. Together, these results establish 2-arylbenzothiazoles as a promising chemotype for MTDH-SND1 PPI inhibition and provide a validated computational-to-experimental framework for discovering and optimizing MTDH-directed therapeutics.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Atlantic cod possess a unique immune system due to the loss of the MHC II antigen-presenting system and an extreme expansion of the MHC class I repertoire. Additional modifications are demonstrated within the innate immune system with losses and expansions of Toll-like receptor (TLR) genes. While Atlantic cod has lost its mammalian orthologs for plasma membrane localized TLRs, such as TLR1/6 and TLR2, it has expanded its intracellular TLRs including TLR7, -8, and -9. It has been hypothesized that teleost-specific TLR1-family related members TLR14 and TLR25 localize at the plasma membrane with the potential function to recognize bacterial surface components, compensating for the loss of cell surface TLRs. In this study, we have investigated the intracellular localization and function of Atlantic cod TLR14 and TLR25 using super-resolution microscopy in an Atlantic cod cell line and primary cells. Our results show that these TLRs localize to endolysosomes, and colocalize with LysoTracker, Rab5, and Rab7. Interestingly, TLR14 is also present at the plasma membrane, suggesting a function at the cell surface. In cells infected with Francisella noatunensis subsp. noatunensis (Fnn), these TLRs colocalize with the internalized bacteria. While the localization of both TLR14 and TLR25 to late endosomal compartments increases upon infection with Fnn, only TLR25 relocates to the perinuclear region and triggers up-regulation of the pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-6 and IL-18. Overall, our findings provide novel insight into the function of teleost-specific TLRs in Atlantic cod which indicates that these TLRs employ different strategies for microbial detection and activation.Copyright © 2026 Bjørnestad, Krokene, Solbakken, Gosain, Jakobsen, Jentoft, Bakke and Progida.
Antiphospholipid antibodies (aPL) are drivers of inflammation and thrombosis in antiphospholipid syndrome (APS). However, the molecular mechanisms underlying infection-induced exacerbation of APS remain incompletely understood. To identify novel pathways contributing to the pro-inflammatory and pro-coagulant activation of monocytes in APS, we screened fourteen Toll-like receptor (TLR) ligands for their ability to induce tissue factor (TF) expression in a monocyte-like cell line (THP-1). Among these, Pam3CSK4, a synthetic TLR1/2 ligand, emerged as a potent inducer of TF in the presence of aPL. Subsequent experiments revealed that Pam3CSK4 synergized with aPL to amplify both TF expression and IL-1β secretion. This synergistic effect was mediated via NF-κB signaling and required activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome. aPL priming promoted ATP release, providing the second signal for NLRP3 activation. Inhibition of NLRP3 markedly reduced Pam3CSK4-induced TF expression, suggesting a critical role for inflammasome signaling in monocyte procoagulant responses. These in vitro findings were confirmed in a mouse model of APS, supporting the pathogenic relevance of the TLR1/2-NLRP3 axis in vivo. Taken together, our results validate the "second hit" paradigm in APS and suggest a novel TLR1/2-NLRP3 axis as a key mediator of infection-driven inflammatory and thrombotic responses in aPL-primed monocytes.© 2026 The Author(s). European Journal of Immunology published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42480964 is a review article
Bacillary dysentery continues as a latent global health challenge, mainly affecting infants in developing nations. The lack of a licensed vaccine and spread of antimicrobial resistance, underlines the need for an alternative immunoprophylactic management. The present study was to identify a nasal subunit vaccine candidate against bacillary dysentery. For this, the virulence-associated EIEC IpaH4.5 protein, also conserved across pathogenic Shigella species, was selected as the antigenic source. A 29-mer protective antigenic peptide (PAP) (44TTTENRIQAVRLLKICLDTREPVLNLSLL72) was identified within its N-terminal region, consisted of overlapping two B-cell, one CTL, and seven HTL epitopes. Both, T-cell epitopes were screened for strong HLA-binding potential (IC50 < 500 nM). Screened HTL epitopes positively induced IFN-γ, IL-4, and IL-10 and were non-homologous to human. Epitope clustering underscored the PAP region, having 99.68% world-wide population coverage. The 3D model of EIEC IpaH4.5 was predicted using ab-initio method (c-score: 0.44). Whereas, homology modelling was utilized to model the extracellular human Toll-like receptors (TLR1/2/4/5/6) corresponding to pulmonary macrophages. A 100 ns molecular dynamics simulation revealed a stable RMSD (Backbone) plot with an average fluctuation of 0.92 ± 0.05 nm for IpaH4.5 and TLR 4 complex. MM/PBSA analysis yielded an average ∆G: - 76.65 ± 8.12 kcal/mol, while MM/GBSA analysis produced a value of - 52.40 ± 6.45 kcal/mol, indicating an energetically favourable complex. In-silico immune titers of the IpaH4.5, was seen to activate both humoral and cellular immunity. Finally, in-silico cloning aided theoretical expression feasibility of the EIEC IpaH4.5. However, real-world experimental validation would be needed for evaluating its protective immunogenicity.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
Staphylococcus aureus is a major opportunistic pathogen in humans; airborne exposure to this bacterium is associated with increased respiratory disease incidence. The airway epithelium, serving as the primary barrier against inhaled pathogens, is particularly vulnerable to bacterial invasion. However, the underlying mechanisms and relevant biomarkers for this exposure remain underexplored. In this study, we evaluated the toxic effect mechanisms and biomarkers of S. aureus aerosol exposure to human bronchial epithelial (16HBE) cells at the air-liquid interface using microRNA (miRNA) sequencing. We found that exposure to aerosols containing 3.21 × 105 to 6.54 × 106 CFU/m3S. aureus impaired cell viability and proliferation, induced mitochondrial damage, and triggered inflammation by upregulating IFN-γ expression. The bacterium secreted pore-forming toxins, coagulases, nucleases, enterotoxins, and β-hemolysins to lyse cells and induced a cytokine storm by modulating the expression of hla, coa, nuc, sea, and hlb genes. 16HBE cells primarily upregulated Toll-like receptors (TLR1 and TLR5), mucins (MUC1), and epidermal growth factor receptors (KGF7 and TEP1) to recognize invasion, activate the immune response, and protect the cell membrane. miRNA sequencing suggested that medium-concentration exposure induced more differentially expressed genes (DEGs), particularly downregulated DEGs, than other concentrations. Twelve miRNAs uniquely shared across the exposure groups were considered potential biomarkers of S. aureus aerosol exposure. Regulatory networks analysis showed that miR-19a-3p, miR-18a-5p, miR-106b-5p, and miR-142-5p could influence cancer-related pathways and the MAPK signaling pathway by targeting genes such as CRK, NCOA3, MAPK1, and TGFR2 and may serve as biomarkers of 16HBE cell damage. Overall, this study elucidates the injury mechanisms and potential biomarkers of S. aureus aerosol exposure in respiratory cells, advances the understanding of airborne pathogen-induced toxicity.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
African swine fever virus (ASFV) is a lethal pathogen that triggers uncontrolled cytokine storms and severe immunopathology. However, the viral factors responsible for systemic inflammation remain unclear. Here, we show that the ASFV-encoded proteins MGF_110-3L and MGF_110-4L are secreted via the conventional ER-Golgi pathway. Single-cell RNA sequencing of porcine PBMCs revealed that MGF_110-3L preferentially activates inflammatory responses in monocytic cells. Mechanistically, both proteins bind Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) and signal through TLR2/TLR1 and TLR2/TLR6 heterocomplexes, with the co-receptor CD14 enhancing ligand recognition and signal amplification. These interactions activate MyD88-dependent NF-κB signaling, leading to robust induction of proinflammatory cytokines. ASFV strains lacking either MGF_110-3L or MGF_110-4L cause attenuated cytokine responses in vitro and impaired inflammatory pathology in pigs. Together, these findings establish MGF_110-3L and MGF_110-4L as secreted virulence factors that subvert innate immune recognition and drive lethal inflammation, highlighting their potential as targets for antiviral and vaccine development.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Higher Education Press.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42564392 is a review article
Sea cucumber is a high-value marine food that contains characteristic bioactive components, notably saponins and polysaccharides. Strategies promoting their biosynthesis to improve sea cucumber quality are vital for the industry. The impacts of three dietary yeast β-glucans (native β-glucan, ultrasonic-degraded low-molecular-weight β-glucan, and carboxymethylated β-glucan) on the biosynthesis of saponin and fucosylated chondroitin sulfate (FCS) in A. japonicus and the underlying mechanism were investigated. A 28-day feeding trial showed that modified β-glucans improved growth performance and immune responses, as well as elevated the body wall accumulation of saponin and FCS. Mechanistically, modified β-glucans up-regulated the genes involved in the saponin and FCS biosynthesis, including the core mevalonate pathway (hmgcr, mvk, mvd), downstream post-squalene modifications (sqle), and chondroitin backbone biosynthesis (xylt1, chsy1, chpf). Moreover, these β-glucans up-regulated the TLR-MAPK signaling axis genes (tlr, myd88, irak4, traf6, tak1, mkk1, erk, p38) and increased p38/ERK protein abundance and phosphorylation levels. In vivo MAPK inhibition attenuated β-glucan-induced saponin and FCS accumulation and the expression of hmgcr, sqle, xylt1, and chsy1. Our findings reveal that modified β-glucans enhance A. japonicus quality by promoting saponin and FCS biosynthesis in association with the TLR-MAPK signaling axis-mediated immune-metabolic crosstalk.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
The utilization of plant protein in aquafeeds to reduce dependence on fishmeal has become an important strategy for improving the sustainability of marine aquaculture. This study investigated the effects of low-fishmeal plant protein diets on growth performance and gut-liver molecular responses in large yellow croaker. A total of 2,048 fish were fed two diets for 206 days: a commercial-like control diet containing 280 g/kg fishmeal (C group) and a low-fishmeal diet containing 100 g/kg fishmeal with increased inclusion of plant protein sources (P group). Growth trials indicated that fish in the C group had significantly higher weight gain rate and specific growth rate than those in the P group (p < 0.001). Transcriptomic analysis identified 546 and 724 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in the hindgut and liver, respectively. Hindgut DEGs were mainly enriched in pathways associated with lipid metabolism, immune responses, and signal transduction, whereas liver DEGs were primarily involved in lipid metabolism, immune regulation, and apoptosis. Several pathways, including fat digestion and absorption, complement and coagulation cascades, taurine and hypotaurine metabolism, antigen processing and presentation, and cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, were enriched in both tissues, suggesting coordinated gut-liver regulation. Representative genes involved in lipid metabolism and immune regulation, including apob, scarb1, c3, b2m, and ccr9, exhibited tissue-specific and coordinated expression changes. PPI network analysis further identified c3, scarb1, vwf, and apob as key regulatory nodes potentially involved in coordinated metabolic and immune adaptation. Collectively, these findings provide new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying gut-liver adaptation to plant-based diets in marine fish.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Following spinal cord injury (SCI), activated microglia sustain neuroinflammation and drive secondary tissue damage, and this limits functional recovery. Myeloid differentiation primary response 88 (MyD88) is a central adaptor of innate immune signaling, but whether and how microglial MyD88 regulates state transition after SCI remains unclear. This study aims to explore the impact of microglial MyD88 signaling on microglial state trajectories and tissue repair after SCI and to develop a microglia-targeted delivery strategy for therapeutic modulation.A forceps-mediated SCI mouse model was established, and bulk and single-cell RNA sequencing were used to profile the temporal activation of microglial MyD88 signaling in the spinal cord. Pharmacological MyD88 inhibition (ST2825) and inducible microglia-specific MyD88 conditional knockout mice (Tmem119 CreERT2;Myd88 fl/fl) were used to assess neuroinflammation, tissue remodeling and downstream signaling. Functional recovery was evaluated by behavioral testing, bidirectional axonal tracing and electrophysiology. For translational validation, microglia membrane-coated, peptide-modified biomimetic nanoparticles (ST2825·DSPE@MG) were engineered to enhance microglia targeting and therapeutic efficacy.Transcriptomic analyses revealed rapid and sustained activation of MyD88 signaling preferentially in microglia after SCI. ST2825 suppressed pro-inflammatory outputs in vitro and in vivo while preserving trophic mediators. Microglia-specific MyD88 deletion reprogrammed injury-activated microglia from a pro-inflammatory state to a repair-associated phenotype, reducing neuronal damage, preserving axons and improving locomotor recovery. TGF-β receptor blockade with LY2109761 abolished the protective effects of MyD88 deficiency. Additionally, ST2825·DSPE@MG nanoparticles exhibited microglia-targeted uptake and conferred superior therapeutic efficacy.Our data establish MyD88 as a critical regulator of microglial reprogramming after SCI and highlight its potential as a therapeutic target for spinal cord repair.© The author(s).
Neospora caninum causes significant losses due to abortions in cattle worldwide. The parasite can establish persistent infections in the central nervous system (CNS). Innate immune recognition, primarily mediated by Toll-like receptors (TLRs), and the expression of cytokines and antimicrobial peptides, such as cathelicidins, during N. caninum infection in neuronal cells remains undefined. This work studied the ability of N. caninum to infect and replicate in the CNS using an in vitro model for neurotropic infections in human neuroblastoma (SH-SY5Y) cells. We showed that N. caninum established productive infections in SH-SY5Y cells, and that the parasite can invade, replicate, and cause cell lysis. Infections with N. caninum induced a time-dependent modulation of the key components of innate immunity, TLR7 and CAMP, in SH-SY5Y cells. At the onset (24 h post-infection), N. caninum decreased TLR7 expression, while CAMP expression was increased. The TLR7-dependent signalling pathway modulated by N. caninum infection included increased MyD88 expression and decreased IRF7 expression. In conclusion, the human neuroblastoma cell line SH-SY5Y was susceptible to N. caninum infection and showed modulation of the innate immune response during infection.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Sepsis-associated acute kidney injury (SAKI) lacks mechanism-based therapies, with upstream ferroptosis regulators undefined. This study investigated growth differentiation factor 15 (GDF15) as a suppressor of TLR4-MyD88-NF-κB signaling and associated ferroptosis. Differential GDF15 expression was identified by integrated analysis of three GEO datasets (GSE232404, GSE30718, GSE44925) and validated in SAKI patient kidney tissue (n = 30 vs. controls n = 25) and in kidneys from cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) mice. CLP mice received recombinant GDF15 (rmGDF15) (50 ng/kg ip); renal function (Scr/BUN), histology, kidney injury molecule-1 (KIM-1), serum TNF-α/IL-1β/IL-6 (ELISA), and 7-day survival were assessed. Oxidative stress/ferroptosis was quantified by DCFH-DA ROS imaging and kits (MDA, GSH, SOD, NADPH, Fe, GPX4 activity); TLR4-MyD88-NF-κB by qRT-PCR, Western blot, and Immunohistochemistry. LPS (1 μg/mL, 48 h)-stimulated HK-2 cells underwent shGDF15 lentiviral knockdown (puromycin 2 μg/mL) ± TAK242 (1 μM); viability (CCK-8), apoptosis (Annexin V/PI flow), cytokines (ELISA/qRT-PCR), ROS, ferroptosis markers, and pathway activation were evaluated. GDF15 was upregulated in SAKI datasets, patient kidney tissue, and CLP kidneys. GDF15 supplementation improved survival, lowered Scr/BUN and KIM-1, attenuated tubular injury, and reduced systemic proinflammatory cytokines. It decreased renal ROS, MDA and Fe while restoring GSH, SOD, NADPH, GPX4 activity, and SLC7A11 expression, and suppressed TLR4-MyD88-NF-κB signaling. In HK-2 cells, GDF15 silencing aggravated LPS-induced loss of viability, apoptosis, cytokine release, oxidative stress, and ferroptosis markers, all reversed by TAK242. In conclusion, GDF15 is a stress-inducible renoprotective factor that suppresses TLR4 signaling, ferroptosis markers, and inflammation in SAKI, suggesting exogenous administration as a promising therapeutic strategy.© 2026 International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.
Diabetes mellitus, especially type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), represents a significant global health challenge. Growing evidence indicates that Akkermansia muciniphila, a promising next-generation beneficial microorganism, could help alleviate metabolic disorders. Nevertheless, its strain-specific effects and associated mechanisms require further investigation. Here, we investigated the potential effects of pasteurized A. muciniphila AKK PROBIO in T2DM using db/db mice.Our findings show that pasteurized AKK PROBIO supplementation was associated with lower fasting glucose levels, reduced inflammatory markers, and improved cholesterol balance in db/db mice. Pasteurized AKK PROBIO administration was accompanied by changes in gut microbiota composition, including enrichment of bacterial taxa linked to short-chain fatty acid (SCFA) production, and by increased GLP-1 levels and altered serum metabolites, including 9,9'-di-cis-ζ-carotene and l-arginine. These changes were paralleled by reduced hepatic expression of proteins related to the TLR4/MyD88/IKKα/NF-κB and SREBP2/HMGCR signaling pathways.Taken together, our findings indicate that pasteurized AKK PROBIO ameliorates metabolic disorder and inflammation in db/db mice, accompanied by changes in gut microbial ecology, serum metabolites, and hepatic inflammatory/lipid metabolic signaling. This study supports pasteurized A. muciniphila AKK PROBIO as a postbiotic for further investigation in metabolic disorders. © 2026 Society of Chemical Industry.© 2026 Society of Chemical Industry.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42552630 is a review article
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42567952
Neutrophilic asthma is defined as an inflammatory disease typified by airway neutrophil infiltration. Tripartite motif-containing protein 31 (TRIM31), an E3 ligase, is implicated in various processes, including inflammation, tumorigenesis, and immune responses. However, the function of TRIM31 in neutrophilic asthma remains to be elucidated. In the study, we identified that TRIM31 expression was markedly upregulated and interleukin 17 (IL-17) pathway had an enrichment in bronchial biopsy tissues from neutrophilic asthma patients through bioinformatics analysis. TRIM31 was also elevated in lung tissues from mice with neutrophilic asthma. Further studies revealed that TRIM31 overexpression inhibited IL-17 mediated signaling cascade. TRIM31 bonded to TRAF6 and the interaction was strengthened in a dose-dependent manner. TRIM31 overexpression reduced the total and M1-linked ubiquitin chains of TRAF6. In the presence of IL-17 A, TRIM31-TRAF6 interaction was enhanced, and TRAF6 ubiquitination further decreased. Whereas TRIM31 knockdown increased TRAF6 ubiquitination and promoted IL-17-mediated signaling activation. In addition, TRIM31 failed to regulate IL-17 signaling in the TRAF6 deficiency cells. Overall, these findings demonstrated that TRIM31 regulated inflammation in neutrophilic asthma through suppression of TRAF6-mediated IL-17 pathway. These results provided new insights into the intricate pathophysiological mechanisms of neutrophilic asthma.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Visceral leishmaniasis (VL), caused by Leishmania donovani, is characterised by progressive immune dysregulation that supports parasite persistence. The CD40-CD40L axis is essential for antigen-presenting cell (APC) licensing and Th1-mediated nitric oxide-dependent parasite control; however, how its function evolves during infection remains incompletely understood. Here, we define the temporal regulation and functional polarity of CD40 signalling during experimental VL.Using BALB/c mice and primary macrophage assays, we investigated the temporal regulation of CD40 signalling during experimental VL. CD40 expression, cytokine production, nitric oxide levels, antibody responses, T-cell phenotypes, immune checkpoint expression, and macrophage activation were evaluated during progressive infection. Functional studies included CD40 agonism, CD40 knockdown, and TRAF-selective CD40 reconstitution to assess stage-specific effects on parasite control and immune regulation.Increasing parasite burden drove a gradual shift in CD40 signalling from protective to suppressive outcomes. In vitro infection reduced CD40 expression and IL-12 production while increasing IL-10, indicating early impairment of APC licensing. In vivo, progressive splenic infection was associated with diminished nitric oxide production, a declining IgG2a/IgG1 ratio, expansion of GATA3+ Th2 and FOXP3+ regulatory T-cell populations, and increased PD-L1 and TIM-3 expression, consistent with a regulatory and exhausted immune environment. Despite partial recovery of CD40 expression on myeloid APCs at later stages, declining CD40L+ T-cell availability and sustained IL-10/Arg1 signalling limited functional responsiveness. Early CD40 agonism failed to restore parasite control, whereas late activation exacerbated disease. CD40 knockdown increased parasite burden and reduced iNOS+ macrophages, confirming the requirement for CD40-dependent licensing. Finally, TRAF2- biased CD40 signalling promoted macrophage activation and parasite restriction, whereas TRAF6-biased signalling reinforced immunosuppression.These findings identify a stage-dependent functional threshold beyond which CD40 signalling no longer sustains protective immunity during VL, highlighting the importance of restoring APC competence and selectively directing CD40 signalling through TRAF2-linked pathways.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of British Society of Immunology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Targeted kinase inhibitors induce marked tumor regressions but are limited by the emergence of drug-tolerant residual disease and resistance. Although tumor-intrinsic and adaptive immune mechanisms have been extensively studied, a better understanding of the contribution of innate immunity to targeted therapy durability is needed to devise optimal treatment strategies. Here, we showed that natural killer (NK) cells constrain targeted therapy resistance and identified a regression-associated macrophage program that promotes NK cell recruitment. In immunocompetent melanoma models that recapitulate patient treatment trajectories, tumor regression was characterized by robust NK infiltration, which transitioned to an NK-excluded residual state preceding resistance. A regression-associated macrophage subset (F4/80hiCCL5⁺MHCII⁺CD63⁺) contributed to NK cell recruitment via CCR2/5 signaling. Genetic depletion of macrophages using LysM-cre;iDTR mice impaired NK cell infiltration. Pharmacologic inhibition of PTPN22, a negative regulator of immune activation, reprogrammed the residual tumor microenvironment, restored NK cell recruitment, and delayed resistance onset. Analysis of patient tumor datasets from melanoma and lung cancer revealed concordant NK dynamics during therapy, linking this innate immune program to clinical outcomes. These findings identify innate immune remodeling as a key contributor to targeted therapy durability and identify NK cell recruitment, promoted in part by regression-associated macrophages, as a therapeutically actionable node for extending durability of response across oncogene-driven cancers.
Pathogens infect hosts by interacting with host proteins and exploiting their functions to their advantage. Short linear motifs, small functional regions within intrinsically disordered protein regions, are common mediators of host-pathogen protein interactions. While motifs have been more extensively studied in viruses and bacteria, the extent to which eukaryotic unicellular parasites use motifs during infection remains poorly explored. Toxoplasma gondii is a widespread intracellular apicomplexan parasite capable of infecting all warm-blooded animals and invading any of their nucleated cells. Toxoplasma's secreted proteins are key in interacting with host proteins during infection, making them potential sources for motifs. To study the role of motifs in Toxoplasma gondii infection, we curated 19 known motif instances in Toxoplasma proteins from the scientific literature. To identify more motifs in Toxoplasma-secreted proteins, we developed a computational pipeline that predicts and annotates putative motif matches with structural and functional features. Using this approach, we identified 24,097 motif matches within 295 proteins from secretory organelles. We highlight strategies to further prioritize likely functional motif matches by focusing on integrin motifs, degrons, TRAF6-binding motifs, and 42 confirmed secreted proteins. We subjected peptides containing four predicted TRAF6-binding motifs to experimental validation, supporting the predicted motifs in the Toxoplasma proteins RON10 and GRA15. Our motif predictions provide a valuable resource for generating hypotheses and designing experiments to study infection mechanisms. The characterization of motifs in Toxoplasma will be key to understanding the molecular principles underlying its broad host range and more comprehensive apicomplexan infection strategies.IMPORTANCEToxoplasma gondii is a widely distributed intracellular parasite that achieves successful infection by interacting with different host cell proteins. Short linear motifs are small functional modules found in unstructured protein regions and recognized by folded protein domains. Given that unstructured protein regions are a common feature of Toxoplasma's proteins, we hypothesize that motifs play important roles during its infection cycle. Here, we highlight the role of motifs during the Toxoplasma host cell invasion cycle through a curated set of motif examples. Through a computational pipeline, we predict thousands of motifs in secreted proteins, outline strategies for working with these predictions, and finally experimentally test peptides containing a motif involved in the innate immune response, successfully supporting the potential binding of two motifs. Our work provides a resource for further motif testing in Toxoplasma proteins, aiming at understanding the molecular mechanisms of the organism's infection strategies and its broad host range.
Aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) is a mycotoxin that impairs the function of various vital organs of the body including testes. Prunin (PRU) is a plant derived flavonoid with potential pharmacological properties. The current research was performed to assess the potential role of PRU to counter AFB1-induced testicular toxicity in male albino rats. Forty-eight male rats (Weight: 230-250 g; Age: 8-10 week) were divided into four equal groups, including control, AFB1 (50 μg/kg) group, AFB1 + PRU (50 μg/kg + 20 mg/kg) co-treated group, and only PRU (20 mg/kg) group. The groups were treated with their respective doses for 56 days and then the rats were euthanized, samples were collected and biochemical as well as histopathological analyses were performed. The outcomes of our research showed that AFB1 upsurged the expressions of myeloid differentiation primary response 88 (MyD88), toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6), and nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB). Moreover, AFB1 reduced the activities of antioxidant enzymes i.e., HO-1, GSR, GPx, CAT, SOD, while elevating ROS, MDA and inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1β, COX-2 and IL-6) levels. AFB1 intoxicated group showed notable reduction in the HOS coiled tail sperms and spermatogenic indices i.e., sperm motility, count and viability. Furthermore, AFB1 increased the structural defects in mid-piece, head and tail of sperms and lowered the levels of testosterone. AFB1 also induced histological injuries in the testicles of rats. Additionally, AFB1 lowered the expressions of Bcl-2 and steroidogenic enzymes and increased the expressions of Caspase-3 and Bax. However, PRU supplementation markedly recovered the testicular tissues from AFB1-induced injuries. Our findings proposed that PRU exhibits the protective effects against AFB1-instigated testicular toxicity due to its oxidative stress mitigating and TLR4/NF-κB pathway modulating properties.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
NLRC3 serves as a critical negative regulator of inflammatory signalling pathways and is implicated in the pathogenesis of multiple disorders, including inflammatory diseases and malignancies. However, the specific functions and underlying mechanisms of NLRC3 in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) development remain largely elusive. Here, we report that the expression of NLRC3 was downregulated in HCC tissues and was associated with poor prognosis. Mice deficient in NLRC3 were hypersusceptible to chemically induced hepatocarcinogenesis, and NLRC3 exerted a tumour-suppressive function during HCC development by inhibiting the TRAF6/MYC/NF-κB signalling cascade. Mechanistically, the NLRC3-HSP90 interaction competitively inhibited the binding of the HSP90 chaperone to TRAF6/MYC and impaired the K63-linked ubiquitination and stabilization of the TRAF6/MYC proteins. In the absence of NLRC3, TRAF6 and MYC reciprocally regulated the expression of the other and triggered a TRAF6-MYC positive feedback loop that accelerated the progression of HCC. Our study reveals a novel functional link between NLRC3 and MYC signalling and indicates that HSP90 is a potential target for hindering the progression of NLRC3-deficient HCC.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
The ability to tightly regulate and maintain a warm core body temperature (Tb) is a defining characteristic of homeotherms. Moving to a thermally preferred place is an energetically efficient first-line thermoregulatory mechanism. We optimized a mouse binary thermal preference assay, selecting floor plate temperatures of 38°C vs 25°C for males and 39°C vs 30°C for females as having no baseline preference. Warm preference was increased in females, by fasting, and with age. Genetic manipulations that increased warm preference included ablation of uncoupling protein 1 (Ucp1) or of all four adenosine receptors (Adora1, Adora2a, Adora2b, Adora3). Ablation of estrogen receptor α (Esr1) reduced the preference for the warmer side in females but had no effect on preference in males. Mice treated with the β3 adrenergic receptor agonist CL-316243 or the adenosine receptor 3 agonist MRS5698 sought the cooler surface. Thermal preference assays complement the measurement of Tb, providing information about whether a change in Tb reflects a new target or setpoint Tb caused by the intervention, or if the mouse is trying to maintain an unchanged Tb. Thermal preference can be more sensitive than baseline Tb for detecting changes in thermal physiology.
Chronic stress is a major precipitating factor for anxiety disorders, yet current pharmacotherapies are limited by delayed onset of action and adverse effects, highlighting the need for safer and more effective alternatives. Tongren Niuhuang Qingxin Wan (NHQXW), a traditional Chinese medicine formulation, has been used clinically to alleviate symptoms including palpitations, insomnia, and anxiety-related discomfort; however, its potential to mitigate stress-induced anxiety-like behaviors in preclinical models, along with the underlying molecular mechanisms, remains largely unexplored. In this study, using the chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) mouse model, we assessed anxiety-like behaviors via the open field, elevated plus maze, and light-dark box tests. Neurotransmitter levels were measured by LC-MS/MS, and associated molecular alterations were investigated using non-targeted proteomics, followed by RT-qPCR and western blotting for validation. NHQXW attenuated the development of CUMS-induced anxiety-like behavioral alterations and reduced the stress-associated elevation of norepinephrine in the PFC. Proteomic analysis identified 107 differentially expressed proteins in the PFC of high-dose NHQXW-treated mice compared to CUMS controls, primarily enriched in adrenergic signaling, synaptic plasticity, and stress-related pathways. Subsequent validation showed that NHQXW upregulated the expression of α2A-adrenergic receptor (ADRA2A) and its coupled G protein subunit GNAI2, normalized glucocorticoid receptor expression, and protected synapse-related proteins. These findings suggest that the protective effects of NHQXW may be associated with modulation of prefrontal noradrenergic signaling and synaptic plasticity. This study provides a molecular rationale for the therapeutic potential of NHQXW as a novel, multi-targeted intervention for stress-related anxiety disorders, paving the way for future translational research and clinical applications.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
To evaluate the physiological and clinical effects of sivelestat, a selective neutrophil elastase inhibitor, in patients with aortic dissection-associated acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), and to explore its potential mechanisms using transcriptomic analysis.This single-center, randomized, placebo-controlled pilot trial enrolled adult patients who developed ARDS with systemic inflammatory response syndrome after aortic dissection surgery. Participants were randomized 1:1 to receive continuous intravenous sivelestat (0.2 mg/kg/h) or placebo for 5 days. The primary outcome was the PaO2/FiO2 ratio on Day 5. Secondary outcomes included Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) score, requirement and duration of invasive mechanical ventilation, and ICU length of stay. Inflammatory biomarkers were measured on Days 1, 3, and 5. Peripheral blood RNA sequencing was performed on Day 5.Ten patients were enrolled (sivelestat n=5; placebo n=5). By Day 5, the sivelestat group showed significantly higher PaO2/FiO2 (317.2 ± 115.8 vs 168.6 ± 79.4 mmHg; p=0.046), lower SOFA scores (5.8 ± 1.3 vs 9.0 ± 1.9; p=0.014), lower CRP levels on Days 3 and 5 (both p=0.005), and shorter ICU stay (6.0 ± 2.5 vs 13.0 ± 3.6 days; p=0.009). RNA sequencing identified 518 differentially expressed genes, with six hub genes (BPI, ELANE, CEBPE, MPO, CTSG, and DEFA3) enriched in neutrophil protease-related inflammatory pathways.In this hypothesis-generating pilot study, early sivelestat was associated with preliminary signals of improved oxygenation, reduced systemic inflammation, and shorter ICU stay. Exploratory transcriptomics identified six hub genes (BPI, ELANE, CEBPE, MPO, CTSG, DEFA3) implicating neutrophil protease-centered pathways. These findings support the need for larger, biomarker-integrated multicenter trials to confirm efficacy and define responsive subgroups.© 2026 Wang et al.
Jingtong Granules is a clinically approved seven-herb formula for CSR, a condition in which radicular pain is sustained partly by inflammatory and immune processes, yet the immune-cellular state of CSR and the immune-level mechanism of the formula remain poorly defined.Using peripheral-blood transcriptomes from GSE223227 (7 controls, 9 CSR, and 30 degenerative cervical myelopathy), we profiled nine immune lineages by signature scoring, prioritized CSR-associated features with six machine-learning methods under permutation-based specificity testing, localized signature genes on the Human Protein Atlas sorted immune-cell reference, and linked the immune program to mass-spectrometry-confirmed constituents of Jingtong Granules by network pharmacology, molecular docking, molecular dynamics, and MM-GBSA. Two-level Mendelian randomization against cervical-specific FinnGen endpoints tested genetic causal directionality.CSR blood showed a bidirectional immune-rebalancing pattern: reduced NK-cell activity (p = 0.0164), increased M1-macrophage activity (p = 0.0311), and directionally higher neutrophil and lower CD8-cytotoxic scores. The neutrophil/myeloid effector program discriminated CSR from controls (AUROC 0.79), exceeding a size-matched random-panel null, whereas a generic NF-κB/TNF panel performed near chance; a composite rebalancing score reached a preliminary AUROC of 0.90 (95% CI 0.71-1.00). Network pharmacology nominated MPO as a formula-associated immune target, whereas patient-upregulated, neutrophil-localized ELANE and CTSG were prioritized as structurally tractable granule enzymes. The validated quality markers nodakenin and paeoniflorin docked favorably to ELANE and CTSG and remained in their catalytic pockets during molecular dynamics, with MM-GBSA binding free energies of -16.0 to -33.5 kcal/mol. Both markers also showed favorable drug-like physicochemical profiles. Mendelian randomization gave no support for an upstream genetic-causal role of the myeloid-skewed immune state in cervical disk disorders or radiculopathy.These exploratory, single-cohort findings characterize CSR peripheral blood as myeloid-skewed and cytotoxic-attenuated and nominate a traceable constituent-to-enzyme hypothesis in which mass-spectrometry-confirmed Jingtong Granules markers may engage patient-upregulated neutrophil granule enzymes, warranting replication and experimental validation.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) represents a common malignancy characterized by significant morbidity and mortality rates, highlighting the critical necessity for novel therapeutic approaches. Consequently, investigating differentially expressed genes linked to inflammation and pyroptosis may identify potential prognostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets.To address this research gap, our study utilized an extensive bioinformatics approach by analyzing the Cancer Genome Atlas Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma (TCGA-HNSC) dataset through differential expression analysis to identify genomic features associated with OSCC. Subsequent analyses included Gene Ontology and pathway enrichment assessments, along with survival analyses using Cox regression models, to evaluate the prognostic significance of the identified differentially expressed genes. Furthermore, immune infiltration analysis and somatic mutation assessments were conducted to elucidate the relationship between immune cell types and key prognostic genes. Additionally, copy number variation analysis was performed to highlight genomic alterations associated with immune-related and prognostic-related differentially expressed genes(DEGs).Our analysis identified a total of 3,495 differentially expressed genes, among which 53 immune-related and prognosis-related differentially expressed genes demonstrated a significant correlation with the prognosis of OSCC. Immune infiltration analysis further revealed the presence of 28 immune cell types within OSCC samples, with a notable prevalence of activated CD8 T cells and regulatory T cells, underscoring their association with critical prognostic genes. Additionally, pathway analysis highlighted the activation of cytokine signaling pathways and their associations with processes relevant to systemic lupus erythematosus. A prognostic risk model derived from these findings effectively stratified patients based on overall survival, identifying four key genes-CTSG,HKDC1,PTX3 and SPP1-as crucial prognostic indicators. This analysis may uncover potential prognostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets.This study established a novel OSCC prognostic risk model based on inflammation- and pyroptosis-related interactive genes. CTSG, HKDC1, PTX3 and SPP1 were validated as independent prognostic biomarkers, and the risk score was closely associated with tumor microenvironment features, metabolic activity, and therapeutic sensitivity. This work may provides substantial references for the exploration of novel biomarkers for OSCC treatment and facilitates clinical decision-making.Copyright © 2026 Wu, Fan, Shao, Shen, Li, Liu and Du.
Mast cells are increasingly recognized as an important regulator of the tumor microenvironment. However, their role in colorectal cancer (CRC) is controversial, and there is a lack of targetable mast cell-specific molecules to improve the tumor microenvironment and overcome resistance to immunotherapy.We used single-cell RNA sequencing, bulk RNA sequencing, and bioinformatics analyses to characterize mast cell subsets in the CRC tumor microenvironment and assess their association with immunotherapy response. We further employed a murine orthotopic CRC model and multi-omics approaches to explore how mast cells regulate anti-tumor immunity.Tumor-infiltrating mast cells displayed altered transcriptional state in CRC and closely associated with tumor molecular features. Mast cell deficiency significantly attenuated tumor growth and increased immune cell infiltration in an orthotopic CRC model. Strikingly, a subset of mast cells specifically expressing cathepsin G (CTSG) correlated with immunotherapy resistance and poor prognosis in patient with CRC. Mast cell-derived CTSG contributed to tumor metabolic adaptation and limited chemokine-mediated immune recruitment. The interaction between mast cells and tumor cells was mainly mediated via protease-activated receptor 2 (PAR2) signaling. Furthermore, pharmacological inhibition of CTSG improved the recruitment and function of CD8+ T cell and enhanced the efficacy of anti-PD-1 in vivo.Our findings uncover a pro-tumoral CTSG+ mast cell subset associated with a metabolically active and immune-restricted microenvironment in CRC, and highlight CTSG as a promising target for improving immunotherapy response.Copyright © 2026 Jiang, Hong, Liu, Zhong and Dai.
CD8+ T-cell exhaustion is a key mechanism of tumor immune evasion and a major limitation of current cancer immunotherapy. However, the molecular factors sustaining dysfunctional CD8+ T-cell states across cancers are not fully understood. Here, we identify GPR171 as a common feature of exhausted CD8+ T cells across multiple solid tumors based on integrated pan-cancer single-cell transcriptomic analyses. GPR171 is enriched in exhausted CD8+ T cells and is closely associated with immunosuppressive and exhaustion-related gene programs. It also shows a strong association with key immune regulatory genes such as CTLA4 and NR4A2. Functional analyses suggest that reduced GPR171 activity is associated with decreased expression of exhaustion-related genes and a shift toward cytotoxic and immune-activating programs. In parallel, a CREM-centered regulatory network emerges in exhausted CD8+ T cells and may act in concert with GPR171-associated programs to reinforce dysfunctional states. Overall, our results identify GPR171 as a candidate marker of CD8+ T-cell dysfunction across cancers and provide a systematic pan-cancer single-cell characterization of its association with immunosuppressive T-cell states, supporting its potential as a therapeutic target for restoring antitumor immunity.
This study aimed to identify candidate shared transcriptomic signals between major depressive disorder and dermatomyositis through an integrative bioinformatic reanalysis of public GEO datasets with single-cell contextualization. The analytical workflow included Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis (WGCNA) for key module identification, Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses for functional characterization, GeneMANIA- and a network visualization platform-based network analysis for candidate-gene prioritization, and evaluation of 113 machine-learning models combined with SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) for diagnostic feature selection. Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA), immune infiltration analysis, and single-cell RNA-seq-based contextualization were subsequently performed to further characterize the immune-related cellular context of the identified signals. Integration of dermatomyositis-related GEO datasets identified 570 differentially expressed genes, from which 33 candidate shared genes were obtained via WGCNA. Functional enrichment and network analyses highlighted immune defense, cytotoxicity, and pathways including PPAR, IL-17, and antigen processing, with ELANE, PPBP, and CTSG emerging as highly connected nodes. Machine-learning-based feature prioritization retained 8 candidate model-selected genes, namely KIF4A, OLR1, KIR2DL4, KRT23, KIR3DS1, AZU1, SCG5, and LRRC37E. Immune infiltration analysis associated these shared genes with regulatory T cells (Tregs), resting mast cells, resting dendritic cells, and both classically activated (M1) and alternatively activated (M2) macrophages. Single-cell RNA-seq contextualization further suggested that CD8⁺ T-cell subsets with different candidate-gene score states showed distinct intercellular communication patterns. Among these, the MIF-(CD74+CD44) axis and signals from naive/central memory T cells were notable features requiring further validation. Overall, this study identified candidate shared transcriptomic signals between major depressive disorder and dermatomyositis and highlighted immune-related cellular contexts that warrant further validation in true comorbid cohorts.
Exome sequencing (ES) has become a primary tool for diagnosing neurodevelopmental disorders (NDDs), yet the interpretation of genetic variants in large, heterogeneous cohorts presents significant challenges that automated pipelines often fail to resolve. This study showcases the complexities and novel findings derived from a decade-long analysis of 419 Italian NDD patient-parent trios. While ES established a molecular diagnosis in 36.5% of cases (53.8% in syndromic presentations), our investigation moves beyond diagnostic yield to highlight the critical value of manual curation integrated with deep phenotyping. We demonstrate how this rigorous approach uncovers complex disease mechanisms, revealing that variants initially misclassified as missense or stop-gain are, in fact, pathogenic splicing defects confirmed by functional analysis. Furthermore, we resolve the paradox of pathogenic truncating PPM1D variants in control databases by demonstrating their somatic mosaic nature, a crucial insight for population data interpretation. Our work also refines gene-disease correlations by challenging the established role of MID2 in NDDs, providing further evidence for DSCAM as a high-confidence risk gene, and expanding the known phenotypic spectrum of disorders, such as a novel GNAI2-related syndrome lacking expected immune dysfunction. This study underscores that navigating the complexities of large NDD cohorts requires a detailed, expert-driven approach to not only enhance diagnostic yield but also to advance our fundamental understanding of rare disease genetics.© 2026. The Author(s).
Lipid droplet (LD) accumulation in microglia results in a dysfunctional and proinflammatory state after ischemic stroke and worsens neurological outcomes; yet how this accumulation is regulated remains unclear. Interferon regulatory factor 7 (IRF7) is an immune regulatory factor whose role in lipid metabolism and autophagy has been increasingly studied in peripheral tissues. However, the role of IRF7 in microglial lipophagy (a selective autophagic process that targets LDs) and poststroke functional recovery remains unexplored. In this study, using a mouse photothrombotic ischemia (PTI) model, we observed that microglia in the peri-infarct region displayed persistent lipophagy impairment and LD accumulation for up to 21 days. Reanalysis of the single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) dataset revealed that an Irf7high microglial MG1 subcluster (disease-associated microglia) was significantly associated with autophagy and lipid metabolism poststroke. Furthermore, microglial Irf7 conditional knockout (Irf7 cKO) mice exhibited a significant rescue of lipophagy impairment and an alleviation of the ensuing LD accumulation in microglia, accompanied by enhanced synaptic plasticity and motor functional recovery during the subacute phase poststroke. Consistently, in the 15-month-old distal middle cerebral artery occlusion (dMCAO) model, Irf7 cKO mice also displayed similar improvements. Similar results were also observed in vitro. Mechanistically, Gnai2 was identified as a positively regulated transcriptional target of IRF7. In BV2 cells and primary microglia, Gnai2 knockdown mitigated lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced lipophagy impairment, thereby reducing LD accumulation. This treatment also increased the level of phosphatidylcholine (PC), a key lipid for stabilizing small LDs as well as promoting autophagosome formation and autophagic flux. Consistently, microglial Irf7 deletion or knockdown attenuated stroke- or LPS-induced PC reduction both in vivo and in vitro. Furthermore, exogenous supplementation with CDP-choline, an intermediate in PC synthesis, alleviated LD accumulation and lipophagy impairment, thereby improving motor function. Additionally, delayed administration of an inhibitor of stimulator of interferon genes (STING, an upstream target of IRF7) replicated the beneficial effects observed in Irf7 cKO mice, and its effects were not further enhanced by microglial Irf7 deletion. Taken together, these novel findings reveal that persistent impairment of microglial lipophagy is a key contributor to poststroke LD accumulation, and that IRF7 is involved in this process through direct transcriptional activation of Gnai2, which reduces the PC levels. Suppressing IRF7 with a STING inhibitor is a potential strategy for modulating microglial lipid metabolism and promoting functional recovery following stroke.© 2026. The Author(s).
Di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP) is a widespread plasticizer, but its role in subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) remains unclear. Integrating network toxicology, machine learning, transcriptomics, immune infiltration, molecular docking/dynamics, single-cell RNA sequencing, and in vivo/ in vitro experiments, we identified 264 DEHP-SAH overlapping targets enriched in PI3K-Akt/MAPK pathways. Three core genes (ADORA1, PDGFRA, PTGS2) were screened, with ADORA1 specifically upregulated in astrocytes under SAH. Chronic DEHP exposure exacerbated neurological deficits, neuronal damage, astrocyte proliferation/activation, apoptosis, and inflammatory cytokines in SAH mice, while reducing antioxidant enzymes. In primary astrocytes, DEHP suppressed viability, activated PI3K-Akt/MAPK, and induced oxidative stress and inflammation, synergizing with Hemin. An adverse outcome pathway framework was constructed. These findings reveal that DEHP aggravates SAH neurotoxicity via ADORA1-mediated astrocyte inflammation and oxidative stress through the PI3K-Akt/MAPK axis, providing new insights into environmental pollutant neurotoxicity.© 2026 American Chemical Society.
Postherpetic neuralgia (PHN), whose neuroimmune pathological mechanism remains unclear, is still an urgent clinical problem to be solved. In this study, we identified a key neurometabolic axis driving the occurrence of PHN, and developed a precise intervention strategy based on it. Cohort analysis based on the UK Biobank revealed that systemic inflammatory status was significantly associated with the risk of PHN. To translate this clinical association into actionable mechanistic targets, we integrated Mendelian randomization analysis with spinal cord transcriptomics data from a mouse PHN model, and found that functional deficiency of adenosine deaminase (ADA) was the core driver of the pro-inflammatory network. Mechanistic studies showed that specific downregulation of ADA expression in microglia led to pathological accumulation of local adenosine (ADO). Overloaded ADO broke the physiological analgesic homeostasis mediated by high-affinity A1/A3 receptors, and instead abnormally activated the low-affinity ADORA2B receptor pathologically upregulated in neurons, thereby triggering a neuroinflammatory cascade network that switched pain transmission from 'physiological analgesia' to 'pathological pro-inflammation'. Targeting this pathogenic pathway, we rationally designed a biomimetic nanozyme (HA@Que-Mn NPs). Through structure-oriented virtual screening, quercetin was selected as the conformational stabilizer of ADA; through manganese (Mn) coordination and surface functionalization with sodium hyaluronate (HA), the nanozyme was endowed with enhanced blood-brain barrier penetration ability, microglia-specific targeting and optimized catalytic efficiency of reactive oxygen species scavenging. In the resiniferatoxin (RTX)-induced mouse PHN model, systemic administration of the nanozyme effectively reshaped the neuroimmune microenvironment, inhibited pathological ADORA2B signal transduction, and achieved significant and long-lasting relief of neuropathic pain. This study established the ADA-ADO-ADORA2B pathogenic axis in PHN, and proposed a first-in-class nanozyme therapy with clinical transformation prospects, providing a new option for multi-omics driven targeted nanomedicine in the treatment of neuropathic pain.© 2026 The Authors.
Gastric cancer is strongly associated with chronic inflammation and dysregulated immune signaling. Molecules involved in purinergic and innate immune pathways, including Toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3), P2Y purinoceptor 2 (P2RY2), and pannexin-1 (PANX1), may contribute to gastric cancer biology; however, their combined clinical relevance remains unknown. This study included 45 patients with gastric cancer and 45 healthy controls. The gene expression levels of TLR3, P2RY2, and PANX1 were analyzed using RT-PCR, and serum protein concentrations were measured using ELISA. Group comparisons, logistic regression, and ROC analyses were performed to evaluate the diagnostic performance. TCGA-STAD-based immune infiltration analyses were conducted using the TIMER platform, and prognostic significance was assessed using Kaplan-Meier survival analysis. Although alterations in gene expression were observed, none reached statistical significance. At the protein level, PANX1 was significantly elevated in patients with gastric cancer and was independently associated with disease status, whereas TLR3 and P2RY2 showed no significant circulating alterations. TIMER analysis demonstrated positive correlations between TLR3 and PANX1 expression and several immune cell populations, whereas P2RY2 expression showed predominantly negative correlations with immune cell infiltration. Kaplan-Meier analysis revealed that high PANX1 and TLR3 expression levels were associated with improved overall survival. ROC analyses indicated limited diagnostic accuracy for each marker. Collectively, our experimental findings provide evidence only for elevated circulating PANX1 in patients with gastric cancer. In contrast, the observations regarding TLR3 and P2RY2 were not statistically significant in our cohort and should therefore be considered exploratory and hypothesis-generating. Complementary bioinformatic analyses suggest that these molecules may participate in immune-related signaling pathways in gastric cancer; however, these observations require validation in independent tissue-based and larger prospective studies.
Children with heart disease face competing risks of thrombosis and bleeding. Antiplatelet agents are widely used, but clinical effectiveness and safety may vary with pharmacogenomic variants. We evaluated bleeding and thromboembolic outcomes and explored pharmacogenomic associations in a pediatric cardiac cohort.Single-center, retrospective study of patients prescribed aspirin or clopidogrel during admissions (2011-2020). We abstracted clinical characteristics, pharmacodynamic testing, and adverse events while prescribed the antiplatelet agent through July 2021. Pharmacogenomic variants relevant to aspirin and clopidogrel metabolism/function (including CYP2C19 haplotypes and selected aspirin response loci) were called from existing genomic data. Outcomes included major bleeding and thromboembolism (TE) as well as pharmacodynamic aspirin "resistance." Analyses were exploratory.We included 105 patients treated with aspirin with VerifyNow pharmacodynamic and pharmacogenomic variant data and 49 clopidogrel-treated patients with genetic data. Major bleeding occurred in 5% (aspirin) and 16% (clopidogrel); TE occurred in 12% and 8% of patients, respectively. On aspirin, bleeding was more frequent with renal (40% vs. 2%, p = 0.011) or hepatic dysfunction (20% vs. 0%, p = 0.048); TE was associated with younger age, lower weight, and single-ventricle physiology. On clopidogrel, bleeding was associated with older age/greater weight and renal dysfunction. No association was observed across CYP2C19 phenotypes and clopidogrel outcomes. No poor metabolizers were identified in this small cohort. Pharmacodynamic aspirin "resistance" was seen in 23% and was more common in females, with no association identified with TE. A P2RY1 variant (rs1065776-CT) was associated with the composite aspirin outcome of pharmacodynamic resistance and/or TE.Clinically important bleeding and TE events were common in pediatric cardiac patients on antiplatelets, with organ dysfunction, age, and physiology emerging as key associations. Pharmacogenomic variants were frequent; a candidate P2RY1 signal warrants validation. Pediatric antiplatelet management and relationships with outcomes are complex, supporting the need for prospective studies integrating pharmacogenomic variant analyses with standardized pharmacodynamic testing.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Understanding the immunological mechanisms underlying chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection-induced immune tolerance is critical for developing effective therapeutic strategies, yet the mechanisms by which natural killer (NK)-cell subsets regulate dendritic cell (DC)-mediated antiviral immunity during chronic HBV infection remain unclear. Here, we demonstrated that chronic HBV infection disrupted intrahepatic DCs accumulation and activation by suppressing CC chemokine ligand 5 (CCL5) production from hepatic NK cells. Importantly, chronic HBV infection reduced the number of hepatic conventional NK (cNK) cells, the main source of hepatic CCL5, whereas liver-resident NK (LrNK) cells increased and exhibited lower CCL5 expression and immunosuppressive features. Adoptive transfer of CCL5-competent hepatic cNK cells promoted DCs accumulation and activation, enhanced HBV-specific CD8+ T-cell responses, and facilitated viral clearance. Mechanistically, chronic HBV infection promoted the activation of adenosine A2a receptor (ADORA2A)/nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB) pathway in hepatic NK cells, thereby antagonizing NF-κB activation, reducing the proportion of cNK cells, suppressing CCL5 production, and ultimately impairing hepatic aggregation and activation of DCs, leading to defective anti-HBV immune responses. This study revealed a novel mechanism involved in chronic HBV infection-induced immune tolerance and indicated that targeting the ADORA2A/NFκB/CCL5 axis in cNK cells may represent a potential therapeutic strategy for chronic HBV infection.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
High-altitude environments are characterized by hypobaric hypoxia (HH), which disrupts cerebral homeostasis and precipitates cognitive dysfunction. Transcranial photobiomodulation (tPBM), a non-invasive neuromodulatory intervention for neuroprotection and functional restoration, has emerged as a promising therapeutic strategy. This study aimed to evaluate the therapeutic efficacy of tPBM against HH-induced spatial cognitive dysfunction and elucidate the underlying neurobiological mechanisms. Spatial learning and memory were assessed using the Barnes maze. Regional cerebral blood flow dynamics were evaluated using diffuse reflectance spectroscopy and laser Doppler flowmetry. Additionally, histological examination, transcriptome sequencing, and molecular biology analyses, were integrated to delineate the biological mechanisms and identify candidate signaling pathways and molecular targets. Barnes maze performance demonstrated that tPBM significantly ameliorated HH-induced deficits in spatial learning and memory. Mechanistically, tPBM modulated hemodynamic responses and enhanced cerebral oxygen-binding efficiency within the lateral parietal association cortex (LPtA). Furthermore, tPBM improved mitochondrial function by elevating cytochrome c oxidase activity and promoting ATP synthesis. Concurrently, tPBM suppressed hypoxia-inducible factor-1α overexpression and microglial reactivity, reduced oxidative stress biomarkers, and augmented antioxidant enzyme activity. These molecular alterations were associated with preservation of synaptic structure, including reversal of dendritic spine loss. Transcriptome analysis further indicated that tPBM may preserves synaptic plasticity homeostasis by modulating the PI3K-Akt, cAMP-PKA, and calcium signaling pathways, with Adora2a identified as a potential therapeutic target. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that tPBM exerts neuroprotective effects against HH-induced spatial cognitive dysfunction by improving cerebral hemodynamics, enhancing mitochondrial function, attenuating neuroinflammation and oxidative stress, and preserving structural synaptic plasticity.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Adenosine, a common cellular metabolite, can remodel the tumor immune microenvironment. Although gastric juice is considered a potential biomarker for gastric cancer (GC), sufficient verification is still lacking. This study aims to explore the potential of gastric juice-derived adenosine as a cancer biomarker. Adenosine levels in gastric juice, blood, and tissues from patients with GC and normal controls were quantified using non-targeted metabolomics and assay kits. Structure-explorative-interactive-SAR algorithm was used to analyze and predict the binding between adenosine and adenosine A1 receptor (ADORA1). Tumor immune estimation resource algorithm was employed to examine the correlation between ADORA1 and M2 macrophage infiltration and interleukin-6 (IL-6) levels. The binding affinity between adenosine and ADORA1 was validated using the cellular thermal shift assay. The messenger RNA and protein expression levels of ADORA1, CD86, and CD206 were examined via reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction and Western blot. The protein expression of ADORA1 in tissue samples was assessed by immunohistochemistry. Flow cytometry was employed to measure the expression of surface markers on macrophages. Levels of cytokines and IL-6 were determined using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The chemotaxis of M2 macrophages was evaluated through Transwell. In vivo validation was conducted using a primary GC mouse model. Adenosine was highly expressed in gastric juice and tissues of patients with GC, while no significant difference was observed in the blood. Adenosine showed a strong binding affinity for ADORA1, and its expression level was positively correlated with adenosine concentration. Moreover, ADORA1 expression in GC cells was significantly and positively associated with M2 macrophage polarization and IL-6 secretion. However, the polarization of M1 macrophages and migration of M2 macrophages remained largely unchanged during this process. Our study innovatively reveals that gastric juice adenosine holds promise as a biomarker for GC diagnosis and the cancer immune landscape.
Extracellular ATP (eATP) is an immunogenic danger signal. In this issue of Immunity, Hu et al. report that in the tumor microenvironment, eATP signals through the receptor P2RY2 on cancer cells, triggering the COX-PGE2 pathway and thereby immune suppression and immunotherapy resistance. These findings identify eATP as the upstream signal driving PGE2 expression, with therapeutic implications.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Extracellular purines, in particular ATP and adenosine, are regulators of physiological and pathophysiological processes throughout the human body. Roles in the human testis are emerging and include actions on peritubular cells, which form the wall of seminiferous tubules.Here, we examined adenosine-evoked consequences in human testicular peritubular cells (HTPCs).HTPCs were isolated from testicular samples, cultured and examined. The ability of HTPCs to generate extracellular adenosine was investigated. Acute actions of adenosine were evaluated by monitoring intracellular Ca2+ levels and signaling pathways. Studies with selective adenosine receptor agonists and knockdown of the ADORA2B receptor were performed. Transcriptional and translational changes evoked by adenosine were evaluated using scRNA-seq and proteomic studies. Regulation of ADORA2B by the synthetic glucocorticoid dexamethasone and 5⍺-dihydrotestosterone were analyzed by qPCR.HTPCs metabolized extracellular ATP and generated adenosine. They express the required enzymatic machinery and functional adenosine receptors (ADORA1, ADORA2A, and ADORA2B), which likely mediated adenosine action on MAPK pathways and intracellular Ca2+ transients. Proteomic studies revealed that exposure to adenosine for 24 h affected the abundance of 38 proteins. Among others, IL33 and StAR were strongly increased. Agonist- and siRNA-mediated knockdown studies identified ADORA2B as a key mediator of IL33 upregulation. StAR upregulation was accompanied by increased pregnenolone formation. The proteomic changes were confirmed by scRNA-seq, which revealed additional transcriptional remodeling, including HIF1A induction and enrichment of pathways linked to cell communication, migration and inflammation. Dexamethasone reduced ADORA2B levels, implying plasticity of this member of the purinergic signaling system.HTPCs generate extracellular adenosine and respond to adenosine via receptor-mediated signaling, transcriptional remodeling, inflammatory signaling and steroidogenesis. If transferable to the in situ situation, adenosine is a multifunctional regulator of the peritubular compartment, involved in testicular homeostasis and male (in)fertility.© 2026 The Author(s). Andrology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of American Society of Andrology and European Academy of Andrology.
Gastric cancer remains a major cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide, highlighting the need for an improved understanding of its molecular mechanisms. Purinergic and glutamatergic signaling pathways, immune checkpoint molecules, and oxidative stress are thought to contribute to tumor biology; however, their combined evaluation in gastric cancer is limited.Gene expression levels of glutamate receptor ionotropic N-Methyl-D-aspartate 2A (GRIN2A), purinergic receptor P2X1 (P2RX1), and programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1/CD274) were analyzed using real-time PCR, while serum protein levels were determined by ELISA. Total antioxidant status (TAS) and total oxidant status (TOS) were also measured to assess systemic oxidative balance.Gene expression analysis revealed an increased expression trend for P2RX1 in the gastric cancer group compared with healthy controls, whereas GRIN2A and CD274 (PD-L1) expression levels showed numerical decreases. Serum concentrations of GRIN2A and PD-L1, as well as TAS and TOS levels, were numerically higher in patients with gastric cancer; however, none of these differences reached statistical significance (p > 0.05). Likewise, serum P2RX1 levels did not differ significantly between groups. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis demonstrated area under the curve (AUC) values close to 0.5 for all evaluated parameters, indicating limited discriminatory and diagnostic performance.These findings suggest that these molecular markers may reflect disease-related biological alterations rather than serve as independent circulating diagnostic biomarkers in gastric cancer.
We aim to elucidate the impact of endometriomas on oocyte developmental competence and identify genetic alterations that may influence ICSI success rates in women of different ages.In this retrospective study, two groups of patients have been analyzed: 108 women with a history of severe endometriosis (stages III and IV), who underwent OPU and ICSI after endometriosis surgery, and a control group, built out of 108 women with no endometriosis history. The Turku Endometriosis Database was used for differential gene expression analysis.The number of aspirated oocytes (endometrioma group: 2.75 ± 0.32 vs. control 10.32 ± 0.54) was significantly (p < 0.0001) lower in patients with endometrioma excision, and the number of generated blastocysts was significantly (p < 0.0001) lower when compared to patients without endometriosis (endometrioma group: 1.09 ± 0.13 vs. control group: 3.76 ± 0.23). Additionally, AMH levels were significantly lower (p < 0.001) in the endometriosis-affected group below the age of 35 years (1.65 ± 0.15) than in the unaffected control group (2.99 ± 0.27) within the same age group. The mRNA expression of the following genes related to oxidative stress was significantly (p < 0.05) upregulated in the endometriosis group compared with healthy controls: DES, P2RX1, FOS, SRF, RASD2, SLITRK3, and TEAD3. Gene Ontology and pathway enrichment analyses demonstrated a significant (p < 0.0001) enrichment of oxidative stress-associated biological processes and signaling pathways, including responses to reactive oxygen species and hypoxia, HIF-1, MAPK, PI3K-Akt, NF-κB, and apoptotic signaling, supporting oxidative stress as a central molecular mechanism underlying the observed transcriptomic alterations.In conclusion, this retrospective study provides a holistic perspective on the impact of endometrioma and its oxidative stress effect on oocyte developmental rates and ICSI outcomes across different age groups.
Purinergic P2X receptors (P2RX) play key roles in neuroinflammatory processes through ATP-gated ion channel signaling. Dysregulation of P2RX receptor activity has been implicated in maternal immune activation, mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress, and synaptic abnormalities associated with autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Despite increasing mechanistic evidence, the contribution of P2RX gene variants to ASD remains poorly understood.We retrospectively evaluated whole-exome sequencing (WES) data from individuals diagnosed with ASD according to DSM-5 criteria. Variants in the P2RX1-P2RX7 genes were identified. Clinical, genetic, and in silico data were reviewed, and variants were classified according to ACMG/AMP guidelines.Eleven individuals were identified with heterozygous P2RX variants, most frequently in P2RX7 (54.5%), followed by P2RX5 (27.3%) and P2RX4 (18.2%). Core clinical features across all genes included ASD, intellectual disability (ID), and epilepsy. P2RX4 variants included an in-frame deletion (p.Ile322del) and a truncating variant (p.Tyr366LeufsTer7), both observed in individuals with ASD and ID. P2RX5 variants comprised rare missense substitutions with variable in silico pathogenicity. Several P2RX7 variants, most notably the canonical splice-site variant c.614 + 1G > A fulfilling ACMG/AMP PVS1 and PM2 criteria, were predicted to alter receptor function. Overall, in silico analyses indicated moderate to high predicted functional impact; however, most variants lacked segregation and functional validation data.Our findings provide preliminary, exploratory observations suggesting that rare P2RX variants may represent biologically plausible candidates relevant to ASD-related pathways; however, no conclusions regarding disease association or causality can be drawn. These findings should be considered hypothesis-generating and require validation through larger controlled genetic studies and functional investigations.Copyright © 2026 Gül Ünsel-Bolat and Hilmi Bolat. Human Mutation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Blood-based biomarkers discovered by machine learning often lack disease specificity and cross-population robustness for clinical applications. We describe a biomarker discovery strategy that exploits monocytes as circulating sentinels to amplify disease-perturbed signals in blood. This strategy leverages monocyteMINER, a mechanistic transcriptional regulatory network inferred from monocyte transcriptomes of 1,202 healthy individuals. As proof-of-concept, we uncovered a 31-gene atherosclerosis-perturbed network that underpins disease etiology, identifying diagnostic signatures for coronary artery disease (ARAP2, P2RY14, FKBP15) and acute myocardial infarction (SERPINA1, ASGR2). For tuberculosis (TB), monocyteMINER uncovered a 5-gene signature (MAS_TB_META5: ANKRD22, AIM2, VAMP5, GBP5, TGM2) from just 438 samples. MAS_TB_META5 outperformed 77 existing signatures across 18 cohorts (>4,400 patients, 12 countries), achieving WHO target product profile for high-sensitivity screening (including in advanced HIV patients), and predicting TB progression up to 5 years before diagnosis. Thus, our findings show that monocyteMINER offers a generalizable platform for discovering clinically actionable biomarkers for diverse diseases.
To investigate the association between serum folate and Primary biliary cholangitis (PBC) progression through clinical, transcriptomic, and protein-level analyses.Serum folate levels were measured in 90 patients with PBC and 90 healthy controls. RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) was performed on three subgroups (PBC patients with normal folate, PBC patients with low folate, and controls), and six candidate genes were validated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).Serum folate was significantly decreased in PBC patients, with further reduction in late-stage disease (p < 0.05), and negatively correlated with ALT, AST, GGT, IgG, and LSM. Combined detection of folate with DBIL and LSM achieved excellent diagnostic performance for advanced PBC (AUC = 0.974). Transcriptome analysis identified 2,363-5,648 DEGs enriched in metabolism and immune pathways. ELISA confirmed dysregulation of AHRR, MXD1, ARID3B, DECR2, and P2RY14 in PBC groups, with expression patterns linked to folate status.Serum folate is inversely correlated with PBC severity and may serve as a potential predictive biomarker. Folate deficiency likely contributes to PBC pathogenesis by modulating key genes, including ARID3B and MXD1.Copyright © 2026 Yan, Mu, Li, Sun, Yang, Huang, Yu, Zhang and Huang.
Chronic kidney disease (CKD) affects over 850 million people worldwide and is characterized by progressive renal fibrosis driven by activated interstitial fibroblasts. Signaling by extracellular nucleotides and P2 receptors plays an important role in renal pathophysiology, yet its contribution to fibroblast activation and fibrosis remains poorly understood. Here, we investigated the expression and function of Gq/11-coupled P2Y receptors in renal interstitial fibroblasts and their involvement in experimental kidney fibrosis. Using highly selective RNA in situ hybridization, we detected P2Y1 (P2ry1) and P2Y6 (P2ry6) receptor expression in interstitial fibroblasts. Notably, P2Y6 expression was markedly upregulated in several experimental mouse models of renal fibrosis. Functional assays in primary cultured renal fibroblasts confirmed Gq/11-coupled P2Y receptor activity, as evidenced by transient intracellular Ca²⁺ elevations upon nucleotide stimulation. Primary cultured renal fibroblasts exhibited enhanced migration in response to extracellular uridine diphosphate (UDP). To assess the contribution of interstitial P2Y6 receptors to fibrosis progression, we employed an adenine-induced nephropathy model with or without the selective P2Y6 antagonist MRS2578. Pharmacological inhibition of P2Y6 significantly reduced the mRNA expression of the myofibroblast marker α-smooth muscle actin and collagen I. Collectively, these findings suggest that upregulated P2Y6 receptor signaling promotes the transition of resident interstitial cells into myofibroblasts during renal fibrosis, likely by modulating fibroblast migration. Inhibition of P2Y6 signaling could represent a new strategy for reducing excessive renal fibrosis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) harbors an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment dominated by tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs). P2RY6, a UDP-sensitive purinergic receptor, is implicated in immune modulation, but its functional role in TNBC TAMs remains elusive.The clinical relevance of P2RY6+ TAMs was assessed via bioinformatics, tissue microarrays, and survival analysis. In vitro, P2RY6 function in macrophage polarization, signaling, and paracrine regulation of TNBC cells was evaluated using genetic/pharmacological approaches, RNA sequencing, calcium imaging, and secretome analysis. The downstream effector S100A9 and its receptor (TLR4/RAGE)-NF-κB axis in TNBC cells were validated. Orthotopic TNBC mouse models were used to evaluate therapeutic targeting of P2RY6 and S100A9 in vivo.P2RY6⁺ TAM infiltration correlates with poor prognosis in TNBC patients. UDP activation of P2RY6 drives M2-like macrophage polarization via the PLC-IP3-Ca2+/CREB1 pathway, leading to transcriptional upregulation and secretion of S100A9. Macrophage-derived S100A9 binds TLR4/RAGE on TNBC cells, activates NF-κB signaling, and promotes tumor proliferation. Genetic or pharmacological inhibition of P2RY6, or neutralization of S100A9, suppresses TNBC growth in vitro and in vivo, and synergizes with chemotherapy to enhance antitumor efficacy.Our study unveils a UDP-P2RY6-S100A9 paracrine axis wherein P2RY6⁺ TAMs foster an immunosuppressive and pro-tumorigenic niche in TNBC. This axis represents a novel therapeutic target to disrupt TAM-tumor crosstalk and overcome chemoresistance in TNBC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a common gastrointestinal disorder mainly affecting the young and female with limited therapeutic options, necessitating the identification of novel drug targets. This study aimed to identify and prioritize new, genetically validated drug targets for IBS by leveraging large-scale human genetic data.We conducted a systematic, druggable genome-wide Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis to evaluate the causal effects of 5,642 potential druggable protein-coding genes on IBS risk. The analysis integrated summary statistics from the largest available IBS genome-wide association study (GWAS), including 53,400 cases and 433,201 controls, with comprehensive blood expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) data. Significant findings were further validated using colocalization analysis. A phenome-wide association study (PheWAS) was performed to assess the potential for on-target adverse effects. Finally, potential therapeutic compounds were predicted using the Drug Signatures Database (DSigDB) and molecular docking.The MR analysis identified eight genes with potential causal associations with IBS. Following rigorous validation with colocalization analysis, EP300 and P2RY14 emerged as the most promising candidate targets. Genetically predicted higher expression of both EP300 (OR: 1.128, 95% CI: 1.079-1.180) and P2RY14 (OR: 1.118, 95% CI: 1.067-1.172) was suggestively causally associated with an increased risk of IBS. The PheWAS analysis indicated that EP300 and P2RY14 did not show genome-wide significant associations with any other phenotypes. Additionally, molecular docking predicted that existing compounds, such as captopril and menadione, could effectively bind to the EP300 protein.Our study provides genetic evidence establishing EP300 and P2RY14 as promising drug targets for the treatment of IBS, laying a foundation for future drug development and repurposing efforts.Copyright © 2026 Ke, Chen, Zhang, Liu, Wei, Li, Yu, Huang, Lan, Xu, Pi and Song.
Fibromyalgia (FM) is a chronic pain syndrome characterized by central sensitization, in which glutamatergic and purinergic signaling pathways are thought to play critical roles. This study aimed to evaluate the diagnostic potential of serum glutamate ionotropic receptor N-methyl-D-aspartate type subunit 1 (GRIN1), purinergic receptor P2X 1 (P2RX1), and purinergic receptor P2Y 2 (P2RY2) levels in patients with FM. A total of 93 newly diagnosed FM patients and 93 age- and sex-matched healthy controls were included in the study. Serum levels of GRIN1, P2RX1, and P2RY2 were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis was performed to assess the diagnostic performance of these biomarkers. ROC analysis demonstrated good diagnostic accuracy for all three biomarkers. The area under the curve (AUC) values were 0.817 for GRIN1, 0.778 for P2RX1, and 0.842 for P2RY2 (p < 0.001 for all). At optimal cut-off values, GRIN1, P2RX1, and P2RY2 showed sensitivities of 91.4%, 78.5%, and 92.5%, and specificities of 72.00%, 75.3%, and 80.6%, respectively. Serum GRIN1, P2RX1, and P2RY2 levels exhibit strong diagnostic performance in FM and may serve as promising biomarkers reflecting altered glutamatergic and purinergic signaling in disease pathophysiology.
Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a major global health issue. Cardiovascular events and infections drive mortality in end-stage renal disease via immune dysregulation. The role of T-cell purinergic signaling and its modulation by indoxyl sulfate (IS) in CKD remains unclear.Male Sprague-Dawley rats underwent 5/6 nephrectomy. The CKD + IS group received daily IS (100 μg/kg, intraperitoneally) for 24 weeks; control group received saline. Samples were collected 2-6 h post-injection. Sepsis was induced via cecal ligation and puncture. Splenic T-cell mRNA cluster of differentiation (CD) 73, CD39, A2A receptor (A2AR), P2X purinergic receptor (P2RX7), nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-κB) was quantified by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Plasma cytokines, vascular injury markers (asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA), intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM-1)), and myocardial markers (cardiac troponin T (cTnT), B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP)) were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Peripheral purine metabolites (adenosine triphosphate, adenosine diphosphate, adenosine monophosphate, adenosine (ADO)) were analyzed via ultra-high performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Survival was monitored for 72 h.IS exacerbated baseline microinflammation, elevating plasma cytokines (interleukin 2 (IL-2), IL-6, IL-10, IL-17, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α)) and T-cell NF-κB. This coincided with disrupted anti-inflammatory purinergic signaling, characterized by downregulated CD73/A2AR and reduced ADO. Post-infection, the CKD + IS group showed profound CD73 suppression and ADO depletion. Despite blunted cytokine surges, this group exhibited aggravated vascular and myocardial injury (elevated ADMA, ICAM-1, cTnT, BNP) and significantly higher 72-hour mortality.Indoxyl sulfate disrupts the T-cell CD73/ADO axis, promoting basal microinflammation while impairing anti-infective immunity and exacerbating organ damage during sepsis. Targeting the IS-CD73-ADO pathway offers a therapeutic strategy for restoring immune homeostasis in uremia.
To investigate the gene mutations in tumor tissues of patients with primary gastrointestinal diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (PGI-DLBCL), and analyze its relationship with clinical features and prognosis.A total of 31 newly diagnosed PGI-DLBCL patients treated in the People's Hospital of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region from March 2009 to March 2021 and 81 nodal DLBCL patients matching gender, age, and ethnic group during the same period were collected. The sequencing of patients' tumor tissues were targeted by a panel of 475 lymphoma-related genes. The differences of mutational profiles and biological signaling pathway between PGI-DLBCL and nodal DLBCL were analyzed. The relationship between mutated genes and age, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) level, Lugano stage, IPI score, cell origin typing, overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS) of PGI-DLBCL patients were investigated.A total of 50 high frequency mutated genes (number of gene mutations ≥3, mutation frequency ≥10%) were detected in PGI-DLBCL. The mutation rates of GNA13, EZH2, and FBXO11 genes in PGI-DLBCL patients were significantly higher than those in nodal DLBCL patients. BTG2 and CD79B mutations were closely associated with high-risk of IPI scores and the elderly. MYD88 mutations were more easily detected in the elderly patients. And mutations of the P2RY8 and KMT2D gene were related to early stage of the disease and high LDH, respectively. Only GNA13 mutations were detected in GCB subtype, while KMT2C, IRF4 and ID3 mutations were most frequent in non-GCB subtype. Further studies found that patients with CARD11, FANCA and ID3 mutations showed lower 5-year OS rate (all P < 0.05), while ID3 and NFKBIE mutations were associated with poorer PFS (both P < 0.05). The results of multivariate survival analysis suggested that ID3 mutation was an independent adverse prognostic factor for OS (HR=6.213, 95%CI : 1.215-31.770, P =0.028) and PFS (HR=0.060, 95%CI : 0.012-0.307, P =0.001) in PGI-DLBCL patients.PGI-DLBCL has a characteristic gene mutation spectrum, which is different from the molecular mechanism of nodal DLBCL development. ID3 gene mutation is an independent prognostic factor for predicting poor prognosis of PGI-DLBCL.
Although immune checkpoint inhibitors show promise in papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC), their efficacy is limited by immune resistance. This study constructed a prognostic model based on genes associated with the sensitivity of tumor cells to T cell-mediated tumor killing (GSTTKs) to evaluate their role in prognostic prediction for PTC.Differentially expressed genes between PTC and normal tissues were identified from the TCGA dataset and intersected with GSTTKs to obtain TTK-related differentially expressed genes. A prognostic model was constructed through regression analysis, and predictive performance was evaluated using ROC curves. The impact of model genes on the malignant progression of PTC was validated through cell experiments, and the regulatory relationship between key transcription factors and target genes was verified using ChIP-qPCR.A prognostic model constructed based on five TTK-related genes (including B3GLCT, EPS15L1, and FGFR4) exhibited robust predictive performance in PTC. EPS15L1, P2RY11, and B3GLCT may serve as candidate therapeutic targets for PTC, whereas knockdown of PSORS1C1 repressed malignant progression of PTC cells under the transcriptional regulation of PRDM10.A prognostic model built on genes associated with intrinsic T-cell killing sensitivity of tumor cells enables risk stratification of PTC patients independent of immune cell infiltration abundance, and the identified drug-target interactions as well as the PRDM10/PSORS1C1 regulatory axis offer novel insights for precision therapy.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42498814 is a review article
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42487440
Persistent upregulation of the purinergic receptor P2X4R is strongly associated with microglial activation in neuropathic pain, yet the epigenetic mechanisms linking chromatin remodeling to its dysregulation remain unclear. Here, we delineate a hierarchical epigenetic cascade that promotes transcriptional activation of P2X4R in spinal microglia following nerve injury. In a mouse spared nerve injury (SNI) model, microglial activation was accompanied by increased expression of P2X4R and the histone acetyltransferase p300, together with enhanced histone acetylation (H3K9ac, H3K27ac, H4K5ac, and H4K8ac) and increased chromatin accessibility at the P2rx4 promoter. Microglia-specific deletion of p300 blunted injury-induced histone acetylation and suppressed P2X4R upregulation. We further demonstrate that the acetylation reader BRD4 is recruited to these regions and cooperates with the transcription factor SP1 to drive P2rx4 transcription, supported by chromatin analyses revealing inducible assembly of a BRD4-p300-SP1 axis. Disruption of this cascade via p300 inhibition (C646) or BRD4 blockade (JQ1) attenuated spinal neuroinflammation and alleviated nociceptive hypersensitivity. Notably, reactivation of P2X4R by BzATP largely reversed the analgesic effects of BRD4 inhibition, establishing P2X4R as a critical downstream effector. Collectively, these findings support a p300-BRD4-SP1 epigenetic cascade linking chromatin remodeling to microglia-mediated neuropathic pain, highlighting this pathway as a potential therapeutic target.© 2026. The Author(s).
Excessive production of reactive oxygen species during photodynamic therapy (PDT) can exacerbate inflammation at the infection site and increase the risk of tumor metastasis, thereby posing significant challenges to treatment efficacy. In this study, a chessboard-structured microneedle patch (HPC@PCN CMN) was designed using a micromolding technique. This design spatially separates and encapsulates photosensitizers and antioxidants within distinct fast- and sustained-release microneedle systems, respectively, thereby achieving spatiotemporally ordered control of PDT and anti-inflammatory treatment. Additionally, by adjusting the crosslinking degree of hyaluronic acid, the release rate of antioxidant drugs can be regulated, which facilitates a prolonged anti-inflammatory effect. The results indicate that the anti-inflammatory process of HPC@PCN CMN can alleviate inflammation by inhibiting the ATP-P2RX4 pathway, demonstrating promising efficacy in the treatment of acne and melanoma. Overall, the developed chessboard microneedle platform is programmable, enabling not only the sequential regulation of oxidation-antioxidation but also the potential for broader applications in drug-delivery scenarios.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
P2RY8::CRLF2 fusion is a recurrent CRLF2 (cytokine receptor-like factor 2) rearrangement in pediatric B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) and is frequently associated with Philadelphia chromosome-like features and kinase pathway activation. However, clinical data on Chinese children with this lesion remain limited, and its early response under contemporary risk-adapted chemotherapy is not fully defined. We report a single-center case series to describe the clinical, molecular, and early treatment characteristics of this rare subgroup.Seven consecutive children with newly diagnosed P2RY8::CRLF2 fusion-positive B-ALL treated between September 2017 and July 2024 were retrospectively reviewed. The median age at diagnosis was 3 years and 11 months, and the median initial white blood cell (WBC) count was 25.65×109/L. All patients had precursor B-cell immunophenotype. Concurrent genetic abnormalities included RAS pathway mutations in three patients, PAX5 fusions in two, and a JAK mutation in one. Two patients were treated according to the CCCG-ALL-2015 protocol and five according to the CCCG-ALL-2020 protocol. One patient received ruxolitinib during induction, and another patient with poor early response received ruxolitinib plus blinatumomab. Five patients achieved minimal residual disease (MRD) negativity on day 19, and six achieved MRD <0.01% with disappearance of the fusion transcript by day 46; the remaining patient became MRD-negative after salvage immunotherapy. After a median follow-up of 32 months, all patients remained in continuous complete remission (CR), although three were still receiving therapy.Pediatric P2RY8::CRLF2 fusion-positive B-ALL may show molecular heterogeneity, including recurrent RAS pathway lesions. Favorable early responses were observed under contemporary intensified chemotherapy with individualized targeted or immunotherapeutic interventions. Because of the small sample size, single-center design, and limited follow-up, these findings should be interpreted cautiously and require validation in multicenter cohorts.© AME Publishing Company.
Pathological ventricular remodeling is an adverse tissue response following acute myocardial infarction (AMI), characterized by an exaggerated fibrosis leading to tissue disorganization and chronic heart failure. Cardiac fibroblasts have a prominent role in the healing process, but also in the fibrosis development, through their differentiation into myofibroblasts, which produce the extracellular matrix, in response to ischemia-reperfusion. Recently, the ATP-gated P2X4 ionotropic receptor has been identified as a key regulator of macro-autophagy, activated under metabolic challenges.In this study, we investigated the participation of the P2X4 receptor in the metabolic response of cardiac fibroblasts to ischemia-reperfusion and the myofibroblast switch. To this end, we submitted a primary culture of cardiac fibroblasts to an ischemia-reperfusion simulation and assessed autophagic flux, fibrotic differentiation markers and the correlation to P2X4 expression and activity. Then, using pharmacological inhibition and siRNA-mediated knockdown receptor under-expression, we investigated its role in the response of cardiac fibroblasts to this metabolic challenge. Finally, we validated our findings in an in vivo murine model of coronary ligation in wild-type and P2rx4-/- mice.Our results reveal that human cardiac fibroblasts subjected to simulated ischemia present an increased autophagic activity associated with a concomitant overexpression of P2X4 and its activity at the plasma membrane of cells. Pharmacological antagonism of P2X4, or its silencing, impaired autophagy, as evidenced by the accumulation of autophagy markers, and induced the expression of fibrotic markers. In an in vivo model of AMI through transient coronary ligation, P2rx4-/- mice presented the accumulation of autophagic markers both in healthy and ischemic zones, an extended tissue inflammation and fibrosis compared to wild type mice.This study suggests, for the first time, that the P2X4 receptor may contribute to steering cardiac fibroblasts toward a healing-associated profile under ischemia-reperfusion conditions, possibly by modulating autophagic activity and limiting extensive pro-fibrotic differentiation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Dysregulation of brain cholesterol homeostasis is increasingly recognized as a critical driver of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis. G protein-coupled receptor 146 (GPR146) has emerged as a pivotal regulator of systemic cholesterol metabolism; however, its role in the central nervous system and AD remains elusive. Here, we report that GPR146 deficiency in mice modulates ERK/PKA signaling without affecting baseline physiology or general behavior. Following intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of amyloid-β (Aβ)42 oligomers, GPR146 was associated with altered Aβ42-evoked ERK/PKA/Akt signaling both in vivo and in vitro. Mechanistically, Gpr146 ablation potentiated microglial Aβ phagocytosis, which correlated with the transcriptional upregulation of phagocytic receptors, including TREM2, GPR34, P2Y6, and CR3, alongside increased expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6). Moreover, GPR146 deficiency was linked to elevated levels of blood-brain barrier (BBB)-associated markers Cldn-5 and Glut-1 protein levels, while attenuating Aβ‑induced inflammatory responses in brain endothelial cells. At the metabolic level, GPR146 knockout modulated the expression of key enzymes governing glucose (GLUT1, GLUT3, G6PD, PFK, HK) and lipid (HMGCS1, ACACA, FASN, SCD1) metabolism and markedly reduced Aβ‑elicited lipid droplet accumulation in the cortex and hippocampus. Collectively, our findings establish GPR146 as a novel neurometabolic regulator whose deficiency correlates with enhanced Aβ phagocytosis, maintenance of BBB-associated proteins, and altered cerebral metabolism, thereby presenting a potential therapeutic axis for early AD intervention.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Immunoproteasome induction is prominent in Alzheimer's disease (AD), but whether it protects proteostasis or amplifies neuroinflammation remains unresolved. Here, we generated immunoproteasome-deficient PS19 tauopathy and APP/human tau double-knock-in mice by crossing each disease model with L7M1 mice lacking two immunoproteasome catalytic subunits. Immunoproteasome deficiency increased phospho-tau burden, exacerbated amyloid-β pathology and heightened microglial reactivity without suppressing constitutive 26S proteasome activity. In primary microglia and longitudinal two-photon imaging, immunoproteasome-deficient microglia engaged and engulfed tau aggregate-bearing material but failed to resolve internalized cargo, revealing a post-engulfment degradative checkpoint. Single-nucleus transcriptomics identified a remodeled P2ry12 low /Trem2 high microglial state with impaired phagolysosomal and mitochondrial programs. Reanalysis of human single-nucleus transcriptomic datasets showed that reduced microglial immunoproteasome expression was associated with cargo-processing gene-program changes similar to those observed in immunoproteasome-deficient mouse microglia. Together, these findings identify immunoproteasome biogenesis as a protective glial stress response that supports microglial aggregate clearance in AD.
Microglia are the brain-resident macrophages and key regulators of the brain tumor microenvironment. Although induced pluripotent stem cell-derived microglia (iMG) provide a valuable model for studying human microglial, systematic comparisons of differentiation protocols are limited, and their utility for modeling microglia-tumor cell interactions remains underexplored. Here, we analyzed 54 public RNA-seq datasets representing 22 iMG differentiation protocols, including embryoid body (EB)-based, two-dimensional (2D), transcription factor-induced, and coculture-based approaches. Most iMG closely resembled primary human microglia, although substantial protocol-dependent differences were observed. iMG generated using EB-based protocols showed higher TMEM119 expression, whereas those generated using 2D-based protocols showed higher P2RY12 expression. A widely adopted EB-based protocol showed the highest phagocytosis gene signature. Using this protocol, we generated iMG that efficiently phagocytosed patient-derived glioma stem-like cells and upregulated inflammatory and immunoregulatory genes following phagocytosis. These findings provide a transcriptomic benchmark for current iMG models and support their use in investigating microglia-glioma interactions.
Microglia are possible regulators of seizures but previous employed approaches are insufficiently selective of microglial-specific manipulations. To more definitely determine microglial roles in seizure severity, we used the microglial-deficient Csf1r ΔFIRE/ΔFIRE mouse model where mice lack microglia but retain brain border-associated macrophages. Using two experimental paradigms, we confirm that a microglial deficiency exacerbates seizures and facilitates the likelihood of developing spontaneous recurrent seizures, indicating that microglia constrain seizure activity. To gain insights into microglial molecular regulators of seizure severity, we examined P2RY12 contributions and demonstrate that a loss of P2RY12 increased seizure severity in both global and microglial-specific knockout mice indicating that microglia suppress seizure severity. During seizures, P2RY12-deficient microglia displayed altered process complexity, accompanied by increased neuronal activation and reduced inhibitory tone. These results link impaired microglial responses to heightened seizure susceptibility and network excitability. Together, we establish microglia and P2RY12 signaling as protective regulators of seizure activity.© 2026 The Author(s).
To investigate the mechanism of the mechanosensitive ion channel Piezo1 in microglial ferroptosis following spinal cord injury (SCI), and to assess the effects of Piezo1 inhibition on ameliorating the injury microenvironment and promoting neurological functional recovery.Primary microglia cells were extracted from neonatal 1-2 days C57BL/6 mice and divided into control group, Yoda1 (Piezo1 agonist) group, and Yoda1+GsMTx4 (Piezo1 inhibitor) group. Live/dead cell staining, reactive oxygen species (ROS) fluorescence staining, 5, 5', 6, 6'-tetrachloro-1, 1', 3, 3'-tetraethylbenzimidazolylcarbocyanine iodide (JC-1) mitochondrial membrane potential detection, and transmission electron microscopy were utilized to assess microglial ferroptosis and mitochondrial functional characteristics. SPF female C57BL/6 mice aged 6 to 8 weeks were used to detect the expression of Piezo1 at different time points after SCI by Western blot, and the two time points with no significant change and the most significant change in Piezo1 expression after SCI were selected for subsequent experiments. T 8, T 9 SCI models were established by modified Allen's method, and were divided into sham operation group, injury group, and injury+shPiezo1 group (Piezo1-targeted interfering virus AAV-shPiezo1 was injected in situ to knock down the expression of Piezo1 14 days before modeling). Colocalization of Piezo1 with microglial markers purinergic receptor P2Y12 (P2ry12), and the expressions of glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) and acyl coenzyme A synthetase long chain member 4 (ACSL4) were observed by immunofluorescence staining. Basso Mouse Scale (BMS) score was used to assess hindlimb motor function in mice. The level of ROS was detected by dihydroethidium (DHE) staining; the content of malondialdehyde (MDA) was detected by MDA kit; the levels of tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α) and interleukin 10 (IL-10) were detected by ELISA assay; the pathological morphology of spinal cord was observed by HE staining.In vitro experiments showed that compared with the control group, the Yoda1 group had typical ultrastructural changes of ferroptosis, such as increased microglial cell death, enhanced ROS fluorescence, mitochondrial membrane potential depolarization, mitochondrial shrinkage and mitochondrial cristae breakage (all P<0.05), while the GsMTx4 group could partially reverse the above effects ( P<0.05). In vivo experiments demonstrated that the expression of Piezo1 in spinal cord tissue was up-regulated sequentially after SCI, and reached the peak on the 7th day after SCI ( P<0.05), and it was mainly localized in P2ry12-positive microglia. Compared with the injury group, in the injury+shPiezo1 group, the expression of ferroptosis core protein GPX4 in microglia was increased, the expression of ACSL4 was decreased, the levels of ROS and MDA in spinal cord tissue were decreased ( P<0.05), the level of pro-inflammatory factor TNF-α was decreased, and the level of anti-inflammatory factor IL-10 was increased ( P<0.05). In addition, the BMS score was significantly higher than that of the injury group ( P<0.05) from the 14th day after operation, and the spinal cord tissue structure was relatively well preserved, and the cavity area was reduced.SCI activates the Piezo1 channel in microglia, triggering mitochondrial dysfunction and mediating cellular ferroptosis, thereby aggravating secondary neuroinflammation. Targeted inhibition of Piezo1 effectively blocks the ferroptosis process, ameliorates the immune microenvironment, and promotes tissue repair and locomotor functional recovery after SCI.
Metabolites sculpt the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME) that facilitates immune evasion. As a crucial signaling lysophospholipid, lysophosphatidylserine (LysoPS) correlates with advanced disease stages in multiple tumor types. However, the mechanisms by which LysoPS drives gastric cancer peritoneal metastasis remain undefined.Single-cell transcriptomic profiling of primary tumors, normal peritoneum, and metastatic lesions delineated mechanisms underlying LysoPS-mediated tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) reprogramming. Immunohistochemistry and multiplex immunofluorescence validated GPR34-high TAMs infiltration in peritoneal metastases. Functional validation was performed using molecular assays and in vivo models.LysoPS accumulated in ascites from patients with gastric cancer peritoneal metastasis, establishing an immunosuppressive TME that drove malignant progression. Using single-cell transcriptome sequencing, we identified a distinct subset of TAMs highly expressing GPR34 enriched in gastric cancer peritoneal metastases, which correlates with tumor progression and immune evasion. Mechanistically, LysoPS engagement of GPR34 activated ERK/c-Jun signaling, transcriptionally upregulating AXL and CD36 to enhance efferocytosis. This effect drove TAMs toward an immunosuppressive phenotype, characterized by enhanced interleukin-10 and transforming growth factor-β secretion. GPR34 inhibitor attenuated M2-like TAMs infiltration while bolstering cytotoxic T cells recruitment and curtailing programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1)+T cells accumulation. Furthermore, combination with anti-PD-1 therapy synergistically suppressed tumor growth beyond monotherapy efficacy.LysoPS-GPR34 axis synergized with efferocytosis to amplify TAMs immunosuppressive properties, fostering an immune-evasive microenvironment; GPR34 inhibitor thus represents a promising strategy to potentiate PD-1 blockade efficacy in gastric cancer peritoneal metastasis.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Cardiovascular diseases remain an urgent global health concern addressed by multiple clinical guidelines. Atherothrombosis is characterised by thrombus formation following disruption of atherosclerotic plaque, leading to major adverse cardiovascular events, such as myocardial infarction and stroke. Platelet hyperactivity is a key driver of these outcomes, leading causes of morbidity and mortality worldwide. Environmental xenobiotic exposure has been documented to contribute to atherosclerosis, endothelial dysfunction, and hypertension; however, its effects on thrombosis remain scarcely documented. In the present study, the effects of bisphenol A (BPA) and its most commonly used structural analogues on platelet aggregation were assessed using an ex vivo model. In silico analyses were also performed to identify potential receptors through which bisphenols may induce platelet aggregation. Additionally, our findings were contextualised within a systematic review spanning 10 years.Platelet-rich plasma from healthy middle-aged men was incubated (30 min at 37°) with different bisphenols at concentrations ranging from 5 pM to 500 nM. Following incubation, platelet aggregation was induced with adenosine diphosphate (ADP) and measured with a Lumi-Aggregometer. Results were presented as standardised mean differences (SMD). A systematic review spanning 10 years was conducted to compare our findings. To explain our results, in silico analyses were conducted to evaluate the binding affinity and interaction models of bisphenols at platelet receptors relative to their reference agonists and antagonists. Receptors were selected based on the structural similarity between their cognate agonist and bisphenols. Binding affinity was assessed for the thromboxane A2 (TP), the purinergic P2Y-subtype-12 (P2RY12) and the protease-activated receptors 1 (PAR1) and 4 (PAR4).Bisphenols did not provoke platelet aggregation spontaneously. However, once ADP was added, they induced a strong and prolonged platelet aggregation (SMD: 1.90; 95% CI: 1.68-2.11) in the ex vivo model, with a potency ranking of BPF > TDF > BPS > BPA > BPAF. These findings were reinforced by the results from other studies in which human platelets were exposed ex vivo to bisphenols. The in silico analyses revealed that bisphenols exhibit favourable binding affinities for TP, which may explain the ex vivo findings. Bisphenols also showed binding affinity for P2Y12, PAR1, and PAR4.Our study demonstrated that exposure to bisphenols enhanced and prolonged ADP-induced platelet aggregation and, for the first time, illuminated their interactions with key receptors involved in this complex process. Nonetheless, bisphenols may also exert other pleiotropic effects that further contribute to platelet aggregation. These results highlight the remarkable toxicity of these xenobiotics and their significant impact on haemostatic balance.Copyright © 2026 Kwame, de la Peña-Díaz, Martínez-Jiménez, Flores-García, Calderón-Aranda, Lee-Rivera and Gómez.
Anxiety is a common clinical comorbidity of neuropathic pain. The basolateral amygdala (BLA) is critically involved in both pain and anxiety processing. Microglia have emerged as key regulators of neuronal plasticity, and disruption of homeostatic neuron-microglia crosstalk can precipitate neuropsychiatric disorders. Although microglia are abundant in the BLA, their specific role in modulating neuronal plasticity underlying pain-induced anxiety remains poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate that spared nerve injury (SNI) induces anxiety-like behaviors in mice, accompanied by neuronal hyperexcitability and increased spine density in the BLA. These changes correlated with increased density of hyper-ramified microglia, along with upregulated P2ry12 expression and enhanced microglial BDNF production. Importantly, microglial P2ry12 knockdown significantly attenuated both process hyper-ramification and BDNF overexpression in the BLA. Furthermore, either microglial depletion with clodronate or microglial P2ry12 knockdown in the BLA reversed neuronal hyperexcitability and spine overgrowth, and alleviated pain and anxiety-like behaviors in SNI mice. Meanwhile, clodronate mildly suppressed neuronal excitability and dendritic spine density in the BLA of control mice, whereas P2ry12 knockdown had no detectable impact on these neuronal measures. Together, these findings support a role for microglia in maintaining physiological neuronal excitability and spine density. Highly-ramified microglia and their increased P2ry12 expression underlie the enhanced neuronal excitability and spine density in the BLA, thereby promoting comorbidity of pain and anxiety.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Microglia rapidly lose their homeostatic phenotype after isolation, limiting the interpretability of in vitro studies. We systematically evaluated culture conditions that reconstitute central nervous system (CNS) niche inputs to better preserve microglial homeostatic features. Neonatal mouse microglia were isolated by fluorescence-activated cell sorting, Percoll gradients, or a shaking protocol and cultured with defined cytokines (TGF-β1, IL-34, CX3CL1), extracellular matrix (collagen IV), and metabolic support (cholesterol, insulin-transferrin-selenium) under serum-free or serum-containing conditions. RT-qPCR revealed rapid downregulation of seven homeostatic transcripts (Tmem119, P2ry12, Cx3cr1, Hexb, Fcrl2, Olfml3, Tgfbr1) within 24 h across isolation methods, with further decline for a subset over 7 days. A cytokine cocktail partially restored homeostatic gene expression, with collagen IV and cholesterol further enhancing selected transcripts. Serum-free conditions favored ramified, surveillant-like microglia, whereas serum promoted amoeboid, activated-like cells, and adding defined factors preserved ramification while improving transcriptional recovery. Transcriptomic analyses demonstrated that optimized conditions shifted global expression profiles toward neonatal ex vivo microglia, upregulated most microglia-specific homeostatic genes, and downregulated inflammatory effectors. These data define a scalable, serum-free, collagen IV-based culture system with defined CNS cues that partially preserves key aspects of microglial homeostatic transcriptional and morphological features compared with conventional serum-containing culture, providing more physiologically relevant conditions for mechanistic and disease-relevant studies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disease marked by a progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) and formation of misfolded protein aggregates. A growing body of research has implicated glial cell dysfunction in PD etiology, including the concentration of activated glial cells around protein aggregates in post-mortem tissue. A disruption in the balance of pro- and anti-inflammatory immune response functions of microglia and astrocytes is believed to contribute towards neuronal degeneration as the disease progresses. However, the molecular mechanisms remain unclear. To shed light on the role of microglia and astrocytes in PD, this study analyzes three public single nuclear RNA sequencing datasets of the SNpc from patient and control post-mortem brains to identify altered molecular pathways in PD.Both astrocytes and microglia show significant upregulation of heat shock binding and misfolded protein response pathways, likely reflecting a response to accumulating protein aggregates. Additionally, both cell types show decreased expression of genes associated with receptor functions; for microglia this included cytokine receptor genes such as IL21R, IL4R, and IFI44L. Genes associated with resting state microglia and non-inflammatory reactive state microglia were downregulated in PD microglia, including P2RY13, RSAD2, CSF2RA, CSF3R, and CX3CR1. Concurrently, astrocytes and microglia both show decreased expression of genes associated with neurotransmitter receptor functions that include glutamate and other ion channel receptors, suggesting a loss of neuron-glia communication in later disease stages.Taken together, our findings imply that astrocytes and microglia respond to protein misfolding pathology in PD by upregulating chaperone protein folding functions. Additionally, the profile of upregulated functions implies that both cell types are under increased energetic demand. The downregulation of neurotransmitter and channel receptor functions in both cell types indicates that neuron-glia communication and other supportive functions may be lost in favour of autophagic, protein-clearance mechanisms in PD microglia and astrocytes.© 2026. The Author(s).
Diabetic sudomotor dysfunction, one of the most prevalent complications of diabetic neuropathy (DN), is characterized by impaired sweating due to degenerative changes in sweat glands (SGs) and associated neurovascular networks. Despite its clinical significance, effective treatments remain elusive. Here, we present a multifunctional nanozyme-based platform, Au@Pt coated with ethanolamine-functionalized poly(glycidyl methacrylate) (PGEA), yielding Au@Pt-PGEA (APP), for the efficient delivery of therapeutic nerve growth factor (NGF)-encoding mRNA to modulate the pathological microenvironment and restore SG function. APP exhibits glucose oxidase-like catalytic activity, reactive oxygen species scavenging, oxygen generation, and electroactive properties, collectively reducing oxidative stress and improving the biochemical conditions that constrain tissue repair. When complexed with Ngf mRNA, the resulting APP/Ngf mRNA complex (APPN) promotes endothelial angiogenic responses, induces repair-associated activation of Schwann cells, and enhances neurite outgrowth in vitro. In a late-stage DN murine model, APPN treatment significantly increases perfusion and sweat output, enhances neurovascular reconstruction, and restores SG structural and functional markers. Transcriptomic profiling further reveals APPN-mediated shifts toward reduced inflammatory programs and enhanced pathways linked to oxidative metabolism, tissue regeneration, and peripheral nervous system development. This work establishes a combined strategy for diabetic sudomotor dysfunction through multifunctional nanozyme-mediated gene therapy, underscoring its clinical potential in regenerative medicine.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42567942
Neurotrophins, including brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophin-4 (NT-4), have been associated with the development of bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) in preterm infants.To evaluate relationships between early postnatal BDNF and NT-4 levels and adverse pulmonary outcomes among preterm infants.We analyzed data from the Extremely Low Gestational Age Newborn (ELGAN) cohort. Serum BDNF and NT-4 were measured at birth and postnatal days 7, 14, 21, and 28. Pulmonary outcomes included BPD and early respiratory patterns predictive of BPD, specifically, pulmonary deterioration (PD) and early and persistent pulmonary dysfunction (EPPD). Associations were evaluated using regression models adjusted for perinatal confounders.NT-4 levels were not associated with BPD risk. Persistently high BDNF trajectories were associated with reduced risk, while persistently low BDNF was associated with increased risk of BPD, PD, and EPPD (BPD: OR 2.75; 95% CI 1.83-4.15; PD: OR 3.13; 95% CI 1.60-6.14; and EPPD: OR 7.94; 95% CI 3.70-17.04). Infants with persistently low and intermediate BDNF trajectories had higher risk of adverse pulmonary outcomes compared with those with persistently high BDNF levels.Longitudinal BDNF trajectories identify subgroups of preterm infants at differential risk for adverse respiratory outcomes. Persistently high BDNF during the first month of life may be protective and a potential target for preventive strategies.Persistently low brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) levels during the first postnatal month are associated with increased risk and severity of bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) and early adverse respiratory phenotypes in extremely preterm infants. Longitudinal BDNF trajectories provide greater discrimination of respiratory risk than single time-point measurements. Infants with persistently high BDNF have the lowest risk of pulmonary deterioration, early persistent pulmonary dysfunction, and severe BPD. These findings support BDNF as a potential early biomarker of lung disease progression in preterm infants.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to the International Pediatric Research Foundation, Inc.
Chronic exposure to mid-band radiofrequency (RF) electromagnetic fields at 3.5 GHz is increasingly relevant to modern wireless environments; however, its effects on hippocampal circuit stability under non-thermal conditions remain unclear. We investigated whether prolonged 3.5-GHz RF exposure is associated with anxiety-like behavior and hippocampal transcript-level changes consistent with excitatory-inhibitory (E/I) imbalance, and whether thymoquinone (TQ) or taurine (TAU) are associated with modulation of these responses.Adult male Wistar rats (n = 28) were assigned to Sham, RF, RF + TQ (20 mg/kg), or RF + TAU (20 mg/kg) groups (n = 7/group). Animals were exposed to a GSM-like 3.5-GHz RF signal (2 W; 2 h/day; 5 days/week; 10 weeks). Anxiety-like behavior and spatial learning were assessed using the Elevated Plus Maze (EPM) and Morris Water Maze (MWM). Hippocampal gene expression (bdnf, creb1, camk2a, th, tph2, gad1, slc17a7) was quantified by RT-qPCR, and histopathology by H&E staining.Dosimetry indicated whole-body SAR of 0.0383 W/kg and brain gray matter SAR of 0.3411 W/kg. RF exposure was associated with reduced open-arm time in the EPM. Expression of slc17a7 increased in the RF group, suggesting a shift toward excitation. Under RF co-exposure conditions, TQ and TAU were associated with changes in slc17a7 expression and with increases in bdnf, creb1, and camk2a, along with inhibitory and monoaminergic markers. RF-exposed hippocampi showed neuronal degeneration, less pronounced in antioxidant-treated groups.Chronic non-thermal 3.5-GHz RF exposure is associated with anxiety-like behavior and a hippocampal molecular-structural profile consistent with E/I imbalance and tissue stress. TQ and TAU were associated with context-dependent changes under RF co-exposure conditions; however, due to the absence of antioxidant-only control groups, independent effects cannot be determined. These findings suggest that synaptic homeostasis may represent a potential target of prolonged mid-band RF exposure.
Overactive bladder (OAB) remains a symptom-based diagnosis with limited objective tools for biological characterization. This study evaluated a multimodal profile of OAB by simultaneously assessing urinary and serum biomarkers and ultrasonographic bladder parameters in women with OAB.In this prospective case-control study, 80 women were enrolled (40 OAB patients [OAB-V8 score ≥11], 40 age- and BMI-matched healthy controls). Urinary and serum BDNF, NGF, and substance P were measured by ELISA; oxidative stress markers (TOS, TAS, OSI) were analyzed. Bladder wall thickness, detrusor thickness, and bladder resistive index were assessed by ultrasonography. Correlation and multivariable logistic regression analyses evaluated associations with symptom severity and potential confounding by menopausal duration.Urinary and serum BDNF, NGF, and substance P were significantly elevated in OAB (all p < 0.001), as were ultrasonographic bladder wall parameters (all p < 0.001). Serum NGF showed the highest diagnostic accuracy (AUC 1.000), followed by serum BDNF (0.999), urinary BDNF (0.976), and urinary substance P (0.972). Urinary substance P (ρ = 0.929) and urinary BDNF (ρ = 0.916) correlated most strongly with symptom severity. All four principal biomarkers remained independently associated with OAB after adjustment for menopausal duration. A composite urinary-biomarker-plus-ultrasound model showed a numerically, but not statistically, higher AUC than the best single urinary marker (0.999 vs. 0.976; DeLong's test, p = 0.308).Women with OAB exhibited a distinct multimodal biological profile characterized by neurotrophin activation, oxidative stress imbalance, and structural bladder wall changes. These exploratory findings require external validation in larger prospective cohorts before clinical implementation can be considered.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive license to International Urogynecological Association.
Postoperative cognitive dysfunction (POCD) is a frequent complication after surgery, particularly among older adults, and its underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is a key regulator of neuronal survival and synaptic plasticity, and has been implicated in POCD but published findings are inconsistent. We therefore performed a systematic review and meta-analysis to evaluate the association between perioperative BDNF levels and POCD across surgical time points. Following PRISMA guidelines, we searched PubMed, EMBASE, Web of Science, and Scopus were searched for observational studies that reported perioperative BDNF levels in patients with and without POCD. Two reviewers independently extraction data and assessed study quality using the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale. Statistical analyses were conducted in RevMan 5.3, with mean differences (MD) with 95% confidence intervals (CI) were calculated for absolute BDNF levels and perioperative changes (ΔBDNF) at preoperative, intraoperative, and postoperative stages. Six studies including 135 patients with POCD and 247 without POCD met the inclusion criteria. The fixed-effects meta-analysis showed lower intraoperative BDNF levels in the POCD group (MD = -5.62, 95% CI[-8.95, -2.29], P = 0.0009; I 2 = 0%). Similarly, intraoperative ΔBDNF was reduced in the POCD group under a fixed-effects meta-model (MD = -9.73, 95% CI[-16.08, -3.38], P = 0.003; I 2 = 0%). The subgroup analysis indicated that the type of surgery may contribute to the high heterogeneity observed in 24-h postoperative BDNF and in 24-h postoperative ΔBDNF. These findings suggest that intraoperative BDNF levels and their dynamic changes may serve as preliminary exploratory biomarker for POCD. The intraoperative phase appears to be a critical window for BDNF monitoring, yet prospective cohort studies are urgently needed to externally validate its uesfulness for screening patients at high risk of POCD before clinical implementation. Current evidence remains preliminary, since only six small observational studies were included and substantial statistical heterogeneity was present in multiple postoperative subgroup analyses. Systematic review registration: https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/PROSPERO/view/CRD420251265921.Copyright © 2026 Liang, Wang and Qiu.
Carboxypeptidase E (CPE) may be a therapeutic target for depression. This study investigated the mechanistic insights into the possible regulatory role of CPE in ferroptosis in a mouse model of chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS)-induced depression. One week before CUMS exposure, mice received injections of adeno-associated virus-CPE. One week after CUMS induction, the Nrf2 inhibitor ML385 was administered. Behavioral tests were performed 3 weeks after CUMS induction. Ionized calcium-binding adapter molecule 1-positive cells and inflammatory cytokine levels in the CA1 region were assessed by immunofluorescence and ELISA. Hippocampal pathological and neuronal damage were evaluated using H&E and Nissl staining. Additionally, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)/nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) signaling, ferroptosis markers, oxidative stress indices, glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4), and Fe2+ levels were measured using western blot, RT-qPCR, and biochemical assays. CPE overexpression alleviated CUMS-induced depression-like behaviors and hippocampal damage in mice. CPE overexpression reduced microglial activation, neuronal degeneration, and pro-inflammatory factors. It also attenuated oxidative stress by decreasing malondialdehyde, reactive oxygen species, and lactate dehydrogenase while elevating superoxide dismutase and glutathione-S-transferase activities. Mechanistically, CPE activated the BDNF/Nrf2 axis, increased GPX4 activity, suppressed acyl-CoA synthetase long chain family member 4 expression, and reduced iron accumulation. All protective effects of CPE overexpression were reversed by ML385. CPE overexpression activates the BDNF/Nrf2 signaling axis to inhibit ferroptosis, thereby reducing neuroinflammation and depression-like behaviors in mice. This work further clarifies the pathogenesis of depression, enriches pathophysiological theories, and provides key experimental evidence for early intervention and target development.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a multisystemic disorder that manifests through motor and non-motor symptoms. Motor dysfunction results from the degeneration of dopamine-producing neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta. Increasing evidence suggests that synapse dysfunction precedes neuronal loss by years. Still, early synaptic alterations in PD remain poorly understood. Here, we integrate literature meta-analysis and multi-omics with biochemical, imaging, and electrophysiological measurements in Lrrk2 mouse models and human iPSC-derived neurons lacking LRRK2. We demonstrate that brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) activates LRRK2 in differentiated SH-SY5Y cells and primary mouse neurons, reshaping the LRRK2 interactome toward a network of actin cytoskeleton-related proteins. Gene-ontology analyses of both literature-curated LRRK2 interactors and phospho-proteome from striatal tissues with elevated LRRK2 activity highlight synapse-actin remodeling as major affected pathways. We further observed that loss of LRRK2 impairs BDNF signaling and alters postsynaptic density architecture. Young Lrrk2 knockout mice display structural alterations in dendritic protrusions, a phenotype that normalizes with age. In human iPSC-derived neurons, LRRK2 knockout affects maturation and BDNF-dependent regulation of spontaneous synaptic activity. Taken together, our study discloses a critical role of LRRK2 in BDNF-dependent synaptic modulation and identifies the synaptic actin cytoskeleton as a convergent site of LRRK2-associated pathophysiological processes in PD.© 2024, Tombesi et al.
Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a complicated neuropsychiatric disorder that is marked by long-term neuroinflammation, oxidative stress, and poor neuroplasticity in stress-sensitive brain areas. Hesperidin is a citrus-derived flavanone glycoside that has been reported to have multitarget neuroprotective effects with antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and neurotrophic regulatory activities. However, its integrated effects across convergent pathological pathways in validated PTSD models remain insufficiently defined.Male Wistar rats were subjected to the single prolonged stress (SPS) paradigm and treated with hesperidin (50, 100, and 200 mg/kg), fluoxetine (20 mg/kg), or vehicle for 14 days. Biochemical assessments (malondialdehyde [MDA], catalase [CAT], superoxide dismutase [SOD]) and immunohistochemical measurements of neuronal and glial integrity (NeuN, glial fibrillary acidic protein [GFAP], brain-derived neurotrophic factor [BDNF]) in the hippocampus, amygdala, and prefrontal cortex were performed.SPS exposure induced marked oxidative imbalance, evidenced by increased MDA levels and reduced CAT activity, alongside significant upregulation of tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α), interleukin 6 (IL-6), and IL-1β, increased astrocytic reactivity (GFAP), and reduced BDNF expression. Hesperidin treatment significantly attenuated lipid peroxidation, partially restored CAT activity, and suppressed pro-inflammatory cytokines, with the most pronounced effect observed for IL-1β. Notably, hesperidin reduced astrocytic activation and preserved neuronal morphology, while enhancing BDNF expression in a dose-dependent manner, with optimal effects at 50-100 mg/kg. Conversely, there was little group variation in the activity of SOD, implying pathway-selective redox regulation.Hesperidin has multipathway, coordinated, modulatory effects on oxidative stress, neuroinflammation, glial activation, and neurotrophic signaling in the SPS model of PTSD. These findings support its utility as a mechanistic probe for interrogating convergent stress-related neuropathological pathways.© 2026 The Author(s). Animal Models and Experimental Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of The Chinese Association for Laboratory Animal Sciences.
Acetylcholine (ACh) signaling regulates oligodendrocyte lineage progression via muscarinic ACh receptors (mAChRs), yet its role in cocaine-induced myelin-associated and relapse-like changes remains unexplored. Here, we examined whether hippocampal cholinergic and oligodendroglial alterations were associated with cocaine-related outcomes and pharmacologically sensitive to M3-preferential antagonism. Adult male C57BL/6J mice were subjected to cocaine-conditioned place preference (CPP), extinction, and cocaine-primed reinstatement, and treated with benztropine (BZT), the M1-selective mAChR antagonist VU0255035, or the M3-preferential mAChR antagonist solifenacin (SOL). Cocaine conditioning increased dorsal hippocampal ACh levels and reduced the expression of selected myelin-related genes and oligodendroglial transcription factors, including Mbp, Plp, Olig2, and Olig1, predominantly in the dorsal hippocampus. These changes were accompanied by reduced myelin basic protein (MBP) immunoreactivity, increased cholinergic terminal apposition to oligodendrocyte-lineage cells, and upregulation of Chrm3 in O4-sorted hippocampal oligodendrocytes. BZT reduced cocaine-primed reinstatement and increased Mbp and Plp expression and MBP immunoreactivity in several hippocampal layers. BZT also normalized cocaine-induced changes in Fosb, ΔFosb, Creb, and Slc6a3 in the dorsal hippocampus, whereas dorsal Bdnf remained different from vehicle-treated controls. SOL reduced reinstatement relative to both cocaine-conditioned and VU0255035-treated mice. SOL also increased open-arm time and entry ratio in the elevated plus maze test relative to cocaine-conditioned mice. In CD140a-sorted oligodendrocyte precursor cell-derived cultures, SOL increased MBP-positive oligodendrocyte volume relative to cocaine alone; however, the lack of a SOL-VU0255035 difference precluded conclusions about subtype specificity. These findings provide evidence consistent with a contribution of M3-sensitive muscarinic mechanisms to cocaine-associated oligodendroglial and behavioral alterations.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
The immune checkpoint receptor T cell immunoreceptor with Ig and ITIM domains (TIGIT) can signal via cytoplasmic motifs to regulate T cell function. The signaling molecules that mediate inhibitory TIGIT signaling and its regulation in T cells remain poorly defined. Here, proximity proteomics is employed to define TIGIT-proximal proteins upon CD155 engagement, identifying several that are ligation-specific, including those involved in signaling (Grb2 and SOS1), cytoskeletal regulation (CD2AP and SdcBP), and endocytosis (IST1 and SNX3). Through crosslinking followed by immunoprecipitation, we show that TIGIT and CD2AP directly interact, representing a novel association. A TIGIT mutant (Y225A/Y231A) incapable of inhibitory signaling prevents recruitment of these proteins. Strikingly, T cell receptor (TCR) stimulation is essential for TIGIT to engage with these pathways. Mechanistically, phosphorylation of TIGIT requires both CD155 ligation and TCR activation, resulting in its signaling and internalization. TCR activation-dependent TIGIT signaling establishes a regulatory mechanism that limits checkpoint control to when functionally required.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Gastric cancer (GC) remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide, especially in advanced stages with limited treatment efficacy. Rhizoma Paridis (RPS), a traditional Chinese medicinal herb, has shown promising antitumor activity, yet its potential anti-GC mechanisms have not been systematically investigated.An integrated computational and experimental framework was established to explore the anti-GC activity and potential mechanisms of RPS. First, the active compounds of RPS and their corresponding targets were identified using UPLC, LC-MS analysis and machine learning (Ml)-driven data mining. Then, the key target genes were determined by the gradient boosting algorithms and their associations with GC were investigated by the deconvolution algorithms, unsupervised clustering and dimensionality reduction methods. Further, the potential compound-target interactions and the mechanism of RPS for treating GC were supported by the molecular docking, Molecular dynamics (MD) simulations, in vivo and in vitro experiments.A total of 118 phytochemicals were identified from RPS, from which 40 candidate bioactive compounds and six hub genes, i.e., BAX, BCL2, VEGFA, KDR, CASP3 and CTNNB1 were prioritized. Functional enrichment analyses suggested that these targets were mainly associated with apoptosis, angiogenesis and Wnt/β-catenin-related signaling pathways. Transcriptomic, prognostic, immune infiltration and single-cell analyses further supported their relevance in GC. Docking and MD simulations indicated favorable binding stability between representative compounds and the key targets. Experimental studies demonstrated that RPS inhibited GC cell proliferation and tumor growth, accompanied by apoptosis-related and angiogenesis-associated molecular changes.RPS exhibits significant anti-GC activity and may exert its effects through the coordinated regulation of apoptosis-, angiogenesis- and Wnt/β-catenin-associated pathways. This study provides a systems-level framework integrating computational analyses with biological validation to investigate the pharmacological effects of complex herbal medicines and offers mechanistic insights into the anti-GC potential of RPS.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Researches on Tripterygium glycosides tablets (TGT) often overlook renal toxicity from prolonged use. Rubus chingii Hu (RCH) is beneficial to kidney health and has an unclear role in reducing nephrotoxicity. This study used UHPLC-Q Exactive HFX to identify Kaempferol, Hydroxygenkwanin, and Luteolin as key active components of RCH. Network pharmacology revealed RCH could protect the kidneys by modulating TNF, IL-17, NF-kappa B, and JAK-STAT pathways through targets such as BCL2, CASP3, TNF, SIRT1, EGFR, and MMP9. Biochemical and pathological studies show that TGT induces kidney injury in rats, while RCH improves kidney function and reduces inflammation and oxidative stress. Western blot confirmed that RCH could regulate the expression of TNF-α, cleaved caspase-3, and SIRT1 proteins. Transcriptomics and metabonomics reveal significant enrichment in metabolic pathways like glycerophospholipid metabolism and inflammation signaling pathways such as PPAR and JAK-STAT. After RCH treatment, most differential genes remain stable, but all 20 key metabolites are restored. Further analysis indicates that steroid hormone biosynthesis and the PPAR signaling pathway are vital for RCH's protective effects, as it regulates CYP1B1, CYP4A1, CYP4A3, EHHADH, HMGCS2, and PPARG genes, alleviating TGT-induced nephrotoxicity.© 2026 The Author(s). Food Science & Nutrition published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42551924 is a review article
Triclosan (TCS), a compound ubiquitous in personal care products, is now a prevalent environmental contaminant across various ecosystems and has been detected in human tissue samples. Despite its prevalence and strong association with female infertility, the mechanisms by which TCS induces ovarian toxicity have not been thoroughly studied. This study employed an integrated approach combining network toxicology, molecular docking, transcriptomics, and cell experiments to systematically investigate the molecular mechanisms linking TCS to two core ovarian dysfunction diseases: polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) and premature ovarian insufficiency (POI). The physicochemical properties and multi-organ toxicity of TCS were predicted using ADMETlab 3.0 and SwissADME. Following the retrieval of TCS, PCOS, and POI-associated targets from public databases, a PPI network was built to pinpoint central hubs. Subsequently, GO and KEGG enrichment analyses were conducted to delineate implicated biological pathways. Molecular docking was conducted to evaluate the binding affinity of TCS to core proteins. Transcriptomic analysis was performed on the ovarian granulosa cell line KGN exposed to 10 μM TCS, a concentration close to human exposure levels. Cell biology experiments were further employed to validate the findings. The network toxicology results indicated that TCS induces ovarian toxicity primarily by promoting apoptosis and triggering inflammatory responses. Key targets identified included AKT1, EGFR, TNF, IL6, and CASP3, which exhibited strong binding affinities, suggesting direct interactions. Transcriptomic analyses further confirmed disruptions in cytokine receptor binding and apoptosis pathways. Cell experiments confirmed that TCS exposure significantly promotes apoptosis and increases the production of inflammatory cytokines in two types of ovarian granulosa cell lines, SVOG and KGN. Overall, this study provides a conceptual framework for TCS-induced ovarian dysfunction and offers new insights for future research on the mechanisms underlying the ovarian toxicity of TCS.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Osteoporosis (OP) is a progressive skeletal disorder often exacerbated by pharmacological agents. Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), particularly esomeprazole, have been epidemiologically linked to OP, but the underlying mechanisms remain unclear.This study mined over 55 million adverse event (AE) records from the FDA Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) between 2004 and 2024 to identify drug-related OP signals. Four statistical algorithms (ROR, PRR, BCPNN, EBGM) were applied for signal detection. Logistic regression was used to assess independent risk factors. Esomeprazole, the most frequently reported PPI, was further investigated using a network toxicology framework. Drug-target predictions, differential gene expression analysis, protein-protein interaction network construction, molecular docking and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations were conducted to explore potential molecular hypotheses.A total of 52 drugs showed potential OP-related reporting signals. Among PPI-associated OP-related reports, esomeprazole accounted for the largest proportion and was the only PPI with positive signals across all four algorithms. Logistic regression showed that esomeprazole, age, sex, and low body weight were associated with OP-related adverse event reporting. Time-to-onset analysis showed a median latency of 3.5 years. Network toxicology analysis identified 26 overlapping candidate genes between predicted esomeprazole targets and OP-related DEGs. GO and KEGG analyses highlighted bone-related pathways, including MAPK, Notch, and PI3K/AKT signaling. Protein-protein interaction network analysis identified CXCR4, AKT1, and CASP3 as candidate hub genes. Molecular docking and 100-ns MD simulations supported the binding plausibility and conformational stability of the predicted esomeprazole-target complexes.This pharmacovigilance and computational toxicology study suggests a notable association between esomeprazole and PPI-associated OP-related adverse event reporting. The identified targets and pathways, including CXCR4, AKT1, and CASP3, provide exploratory mechanistic clues and hypothesis-generating evidence. These findings may support individualized bone health risk assessment in long-term PPI users and provide a basis for future validation studies.Copyright: © 2026 Wang et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Lung cancer remains one of the leading causes of cancer-related mortality worldwide, and although Cytarabine (CYT) exhibits anticancer activity, its clinical application is often restricted by dose-dependent toxicity. In this study, we investigated the synergistic anticancer potential of the NCBI-registered probiotic Streptococcus thermophilus Ab.342 SH (GenBank accession no. PX426457) in combination with CYT against human lung adenocarcinoma A549 cells. Following molecular identification of the probiotic isolate, A549 cells were treated with different concentrations of bacterial cell-free supernatant (CFS), CYT, or their combination, while human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) were used to evaluate selective cytotoxicity. Cell viability was assessed using the MTT assay, apoptosis-related gene expression was analyzed by qRT-PCR, and apoptotic cell death was confirmed by Annexin V-FITC/PI flow cytometry. The CFS alone reduced A549 cell viability in a dose-dependent manner without significant cytotoxicity toward HUVECs. CYT monotherapy exhibited an IC₅₀ of approximately 40 μg/mL, whereas combination treatment with S. thermophilus CFS (OD₆₀₀ = 1.2) reduced the IC₅₀ to 145 ng/mL, representing an approximately 276-fold dose reduction. Combined treatment significantly upregulated PTEN, BAX, CASP3, CASP8, CASP9, P53, P21, and FAS expression while suppressing AKT, mTOR, BCL-2, and IκB, accompanied by a marked increase in apoptotic cells. These findings demonstrate that S. thermophilus Ab.342 SH markedly enhances the anticancer efficacy of CYT while substantially reducing the required drug dosage, supporting the potential application of probiotic-based adjuvant therapy for safer and more effective lung cancer treatment.© 2026 The Author(s). Food Science & Nutrition published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
The RNA-binding protein NANOS2 plays a crucial role in male gonocyte development and the maintenance of spermatogonial stem cells. In the absence of the Nanos2 gene (Nanos2-KO), germ cells fail to enter G0 arrest and initiate the male differentiation program (including DNA methylation and the piRNA pathway), ultimately undergoing apoptosis before birth. Nanos2 transcription begins at embryonic day 12.5 (E12.5) and terminates at E15.5. However, as the NANOS2 protein continues to be stably expressed beyond E15.5, it is important to elucidate the function of NANOS2 during this post-E15.5 period in germ cell fate determination. To address the functional significance of sustained NANOS2 protein expression, we employed an auxin-inducible degron (AID2) system to achieve rapid degradation of NANOS2 after E15.5. Within 24 h of 5-Ph-IAA administration, NANOS2 protein was efficiently depleted. As a result, germ cells resumed the cell cycle, exhibited aberrant gene expression patterns similar to Nanos2-KO gonocytes, and underwent apoptosis if NANOS2 depletion occurred at E15.5 or E16.5. Although some surviving cells expressed undifferentiated spermatogonial markers PLZF and GFRA1 after birth, and entered meiotic division, most germ cells disappeared before completing meiosis. These findings reveal that sustained NANOS2 protein expression during the embryonic stage is essential for establishing functional spermatogonial stem cells, highlighting a previously unrecognized regulatory mechanism in male germ cell development.© 2026 The Author(s). Development, Growth & Differentiation published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Society of Developmental Biologists.
Flowering time serves as the critical agronomic trait substantially affecting rapeseed (Brassica napus L.) production and adaptability. However, the genetic mechanisms related to flowering time modulation within rapeseed are not fully explored. The present work identified a new flowering time regulator, BnaGRP3-A03, through the genome-wide association study (GWAS) carried out using 157 Brassica napus accessions. Compared with those harboring BnaGRP3-A03-Hap1, those harboring BnaGRP3-A03-Hap2 at this locus flowered significantly earlier. Furthermore, CRISPR/Cas9-mediated knock-out (KO) of BnaGRP3 in the semi-winter cultivar Zhongshuang 6 consistently resulted in an early-flowering phenotype, confirming that it negatively regulated flowering. Comparative transcriptome analysis of CK and bnagrp3 mutant inbred lines revealed substantial alterations in the circadian clock and abscisic acid (ABA) response-related gene levels. Specifically, the mutants presented decreased expression of core morning element genes (BnaLHY and BnaCCA1) and increased expression of evening element genes (BnaTOC1 and BnaPRR5/7). Furthermore, exogenous ABA application rescued the early-flowering phenotype, suggesting that ABA acts as a key downstream component. Our results demonstrate that BnaGRP3 may negatively modulate B. napus flowering time through modulating ABA signaling and circadian clock. The above findings provide genetic insights into the molecular network that controls flowering time while identifying BnaGRP3 as the candidate molecular breeding target for early-maturing rapeseed species.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s11032-026-01696-z.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
The BRAF V600E mutation is a common driver variant in differentiated thyroid carcinoma (DTC); however, the clinical significance of its co-mutation patterns in the Chinese population remains unclear. This study aimed to analyze the predictive value of BRAF V600E co-mutations for aggressive clinicopathological features in DTC by detecting a 10-gene panel, providing molecular evidence for refined risk stratification.A multicenter cohort of 240 DTC patients from two medical centers was retrospectively enrolled. A 10-gene panel (BRAF V600E, TERT, NRAS, HRAS, KRAS, PIK3CA, RET, PPARG, NTRK1, NTRK3) was assessed using Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) for mutations and fusion events. Based on mutation status, patients were categorized into three groups: BRAF V600E-mutation alone, BRAF V600E co-mutation, and non-BRAF V600E mutation groups. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) was performed to evaluate P53 and Ki-67 expression. Clinicopathological characteristics were compared using chi-square, Fisher's exact, or Kruskal-Wallis tests as appropriate. Log-rank test assessed differences in recurrence-free survival (RFS), while binary/ordinal logistic regression analyzed the predictive role of BRAF V600E co-mutations for aggressiveness (capsular invasion, ATA risk stratification, lymph node metastasis, and recurrence).The BRAF V600E co-mutation group (n = 21) exhibited significantly higher rates of capsular invasion (52.4 %vs. 13.2 % and 23.1 %, *p*<0.01) and ATA high-risk classification (57.1 %vs. 25.7 % and 28.8 %, *p*<0.05) compared to the BRAFV600E -mutation alone group (n = 167) and non-BRAFV600E mutation group (n = 52). Tumor stage distribution (AJCC 8th edition) also differed significantly among the three groups, with the co-mutation group showing the highest proportion of advanced T stage (T3-T4) (*p*<0.05). TERT was the most frequently co-mutated gene. Logistic regression revealed that the BRAFV600E co-mutation group had significantly increased risks of capsular invasion (OR = 3.667, 95 % CI: 1.325-10.713) and ATA high-risk status (OR=2.881, 95 % CI: 1.217-6.839). Although P53/Ki-67 expression did not differ significantly among groups (*p* > 0.05), the co-mutation group showed a trend toward higher proportions of cases with Ki-67 ≥ 10 % (9.5 %vs. 7.2 % and 5.7 %, *p*=0.09).These results suggest that BRAFV600E co-mutations are associated with more aggressive DTC features in a Chinese patient cohort. The 10-gene panel used in this analysis may offer potential as a tool for identifying subsets of patients with adverse pathology, such that it warrants further investigation as a tool for refined risk stratification. However, prospective studies are needed to confirm its clinical utility and clarify its potential for optimized patient management..Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42553063 is a review article
Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) involves hippocampal and prefrontal dysfunction. Cannabidiol (CBD) shows therapeutic promise, but its cell-type-specific and causal mechanisms remain unclear.We performed single-cell RNA sequencing of hippocampal and prefrontal cortices from PTSD mice, healthy controls, and CBD-treated PTSD mice. Genes dysregulated in PTSD and reversed by CBD were integrated with human PTSD GWAS and brain eQTL datasets using summary-data-based Mendelian randomization (SMR) to identify causal risk targets. Molecular docking assessed direct CBD-protein interactions.PTSD induced extensive transcriptional alterations, most prominent in excitatory neurons. SMR analysis identified 15 potential causal risk genes linked to PTSD. Among these, 7 high-confidence targets were confirmed to be transcriptionally responsive to CBD treatment. In the hippocampus, key causal targets included LYNX1 (OR = 0.75, 95% CI: 0.57-0.98, P = 0.038), RAB3C (OR = 1.291, 95% CI: 1.052-1.584, P = 0.015), MAGI2 (OR = 1.15, 95% CI: 1.00-1.31, P = 0.048), LINGO2 (OR = 1.48, 95% CI: 1.07-2.03, P = 0.017), and UNC5D (OR = 1.41, 95% CI: 1.03-1.93, P = 0.032). In the prefrontal cortex, identified targets were CNTN3 (OR = 0.78, 95% CI: 0.62-0.98, P = 0.036), IGSF21 (OR = 1.22, 95% CI: 1.04-1.42, P = 0.012). While SEPTIN3 (OR = 1.25, 95% CI: 1.01-1.56, P = 0.043) was identified as a causal risk gene, its expression was not reversed by CBD. Molecular docking indicated that all 15 SMR-identified candidates possess strong binding affinity to CBD, including RAB3C (-8.636 kcal/mol), CNTN3 (-7.216 kcal/mol), and LINGO2 (-6.222 kcal/mol), which suggests a direct pharmacological interaction.This study identifies causal, region-specific CBD targets in PTSD, providing a mechanistic basis for precision therapeutic interventions.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The intensification of livestock production has heightened public concern about animal welfare, with aggressive behavior recognized as a key determinant of both welfare and productivity. MicroRNAs (miRNAs), which are critical post-transcriptional regulators, have emerged as important modulators of animal behavior. This study investigated the molecular basis of aggression in pigs ( Sus scrofa), focusing on miRNA-mediated regulation. Hypothalamic miRNA-sequencing of the most aggressive ( n=4) and least aggressive ( n=4) piglets identified nine differentially expressed miRNAs. Among these, miR-27a was significantly upregulated in aggressive individuals. Functional assays demonstrated that both porcine miR-27a and its human ( Homo sapiens) ortholog has-miR-27a-3p, suppressed autophagy, apoptosis, and neuronal plasticity in primary porcine neurons and human SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells. To clarify the underlying mechanisms, mRNA-sequencing was performed on porcine neurons transfected with miR-27a mimics or negative controls, identifying 436 differentially expressed genes (84 upregulated and 352 downregulated). Gene Ontology (GO), Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG), and protein-protein interaction (PPI) analyses highlighted eight genes- CBL, PRKCA, SLC38A1, ZBTB16, AANAT, CYP1A1, SLC7A11, and NTRK2-associated with tryptophan metabolism, oxidative stress, and long-term synaptic depression. Bioinformatic analysis and dual-luciferase reporter assays confirmed that miR-27a directly targets the 3'-UTR of PRKCA, thereby suppressing of autophagy, apoptosis, and neuronal plasticity. In vivo, intrahypothalamic injection of mmu-miR-27a-3p in mice ( Mus musculus) reduced motor function and social dominance, and placed the mice at a competitive disadvantage, while supressing neuronal autophagy, apoptosis and plasticity.
Glioblastoma (GBM), the most common and aggressive primary brain tumor, exhibits profound metabolic reprograming that sustains its progression and therapy resistance. Our previously published work demonstrated that C3G expression is downregulated in GBM, which enhances migration and invasion. Here, we show that C3G silencing or knockout in GBM cells reprograms glucose metabolism favoring glycolysis and lactate production through upregulation of PKM2 and LDHA. Furthermore, Seahorse metabolic profiling further revealed increased respiratory capacity and glycolysis upon C3G downregulation or depletion. Mechanistically, C3G silencing increases the levels of the splicing factor PTBP1, which forces PKM splicing towards PKM2 expression as demonstrated by transient PTBP1 silencing, although other splicing factors such as SRSF3 could also contribute to PKM2 expression. Additionally, C3G downregulation or depletion enhances sphere formation, stemness and tumor initiating capacity in GBM cells, which is rescued by C3G re-expression in C3G knockout GBM cells. This enhanced stemness induced by C3G silencing in GBM cells is prevented by transient PTBP1 or PKM2 silencing or pharmacological inhibition of PKM2 with compound 3K, which also decreases cell viability within the spheres (3D-cell cultures) and the expression of stemness markers. However, in 2D-cell cultures compound 3K increases cell viability in C3G-silenced GBM cells, while decreasing that of C3G knockout cells. This supports a specific role for C3G/PKM2 axis in GBM cancer stem cells through mechanisms likely dependent on both PKM2-mediated metabolic reprogramming and nuclear effects on gene transcription. Altogether, our findings identify C3G as a novel regulator of GBM metabolism and stemness acting through PKM2, unveiling new potential diagnostic and therapeutic implications for C3G in a subset of GBM patients.© The author(s).
Salivary secretory carcinoma is a rare malignancy that is typically driven by ETV6-NTRK3 and related NTRK fusions. Although many tumors follow an indolent course, late recurrence and atypical lymphatic dissemination may occur. A 54-year-old Caucasian man underwent surgery for a right parotid low-grade cystic adenocarcinoma in 2013, followed by completion parotidectomy, neck dissection, and adjuvant chemoradiotherapy for pT4a pN2b M0 disease. After a 12-year disease-free interval, he developed locoregional relapse, bilateral cervical nodal disease, and contralateral left axillary metastasis. Despite repeated surgery, chemotherapy, and radiotherapy, the disease progressed with mediastinal nodal and pulmonary involvement. DNA and RNA sequencing in September 2025 identified an ETV6-NTRK3 fusion. Entrectinib at a total daily dose of 600 mg was associated with rapid clinical improvement and marked metabolic response after three months, with only mild and manageable toxicities. This case illustrates three clinically important features: very late recurrence of parotid carcinoma, contralateral axillary nodal spread after extensive cervical treatment, and substantial early benefit from TRK inhibition once the driver fusion was identified. Comprehensive molecular profiling should be considered in recurrent salivary malignancies, particularly when histology is unusual or treatment options are limited.Copyright © 2026, Manea et al.
This study aims to examine whether oral glutamate administration is associated with accelerated atherosclerosis progression in high-fat diet-fed ApoE ⁻ / ⁻ mice and to identify candidate protein associated with this process.Atherosclerosis (AS) was induced in ApoE ⁻ / ⁻ mice by feeding a high-fat diet (HFD) for three months. The mice were randomly divided into four groups: (1) the AS-GLU group, receiving glutamate with HFD; (2) the AS group, receiving HFD with placebo; (3) the Glu group, receiving glutamate with normal chow; and (4) the Control group, receiving normal chow with a placebo. Atherosclerotic lesions were assessed using Lillie's oil red O staining and histological analysis. LC-MS/MS based proteomics profiling was employed to identify differentially expressed proteins, with subsequent validation by Western blotting and qPCR.Glutamate administration alone (Glu group) induced minimal plaque formation. The combination of HFD and glutamate (AS-GLU) was associated with a greater atherosclerotic plaque area compared to HFD alone (AS group). Proteomics identified RAPGEF1, OPN, and MYL7 as proteins whose expression was increased in the AS-GLU group compared to AS group. These associations were confirmed by Western blot and qPCR.This study shows that oral glutamate administration, in the context of a high-fat diet in ApoE ⁻ / ⁻ mice, is associated with exacerbated atherosclerosis and increased expression of RAPGEF1, OPN, and MYL7. These proteins represent candidate molecules associated with glutamate exposure, but their causal role remains to be determined. Serum glutamate levels were not significantly elevated, and lipid profile changes may also contribute to the observed associations.Copyright: © 2026 Cheng et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Secretory carcinoma (SC) of the salivary gland, previously known as mammary analog SC, is a rare malignant neoplasm characterized by ETV6 gene rearrangements that most commonly arises in the parotid gland of middle-aged to older adults. Several salivary gland neoplasms harbor a prominent lymphoid component, most classically Warthin tumor; however, SC is rarely associated with this feature. We present a case of a Warthin-like secretory carcinoma with robust tumor-associated lymphoid proliferation (TALP) in the parotid gland of a 69-year-old Caucasian male with a 30-pack-year smoking history. Fine needle aspiration (FNA) cytology demonstrated oncocytic-appearing epithelial cells in a lymphocyte-rich background with cystic debris, closely mimicking the cytomorphology of Warthin tumor. The subsequent parotidectomy revealed an epithelial neoplasm with mixed solid, cribriform, and cystic architecture, abundant eosinophilic luminal secretions, and robust TALP. Immunohistochemical studies on the resection specimen confirmed Warthin-like secretory carcinoma. ETV6-NTRK3 fluorescence in situ hybridization was not performed, as the combined histomorphologic and immunohistochemical profile was considered diagnostic. This underrecognized variant poses a significant diagnostic pitfall, as overlapping morphologic features may lead to misclassification as Warthin tumor on cytology.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
NTRK (Neurotrophic Tyrosine Receptor Kinase)-rearranged spindle cell neoplasms are a group of molecularly defined tumors with a varied morphological spectrum, displaying overlapping features of infantile fibrosarcoma, lipofibromatosis, and malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors (Surrey and Davis JL. Cancer Genet. 2022;260-261:6-13). This report discusses a case of an NTRK-rearranged spindle cell neoplasm arising from the left forearm of a 32-year-old patient. The lesion histologically comprised an infiltrative, nodular tumor with heterogeneous stroma displaying myxoid, scar-like and lipofibromatosis-like areas. Areas of hypercellularity with increased mitotic activity were noted. The tumor cells displayed diffuse, strong expression of S100 and CD34. Granular cytoplasmic expression of Pan-TRK immunohistochemistry favored the presence of an NTRK rearrangement. RNA-based next-generation sequencing was performed for confirmation and detected an ETV6::NTRK3 fusion, thereby confirming the diagnosis of an NTRK-rearranged spindle cell neoplasm. The vast morphological spectrum of this entity poses a diagnostic challenge for dermatopathologists, necessitating consideration of a broad range of differential diagnoses. Accurate assessment and reporting of this emerging entity requires correlation of histology and immunohistochemistry, and detection of an NTRK fusion using next-generation sequencing.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. All rights reserved.
Recent evidence suggests that cardiovascular diseases and cancer are linked through circulating factors, mainly proteins with oncogenic properties found in heart failure (HF) patients. However, the role of long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) as potential factors in cancer progression associated with HF remains unknown. This study aims to determine the role of HF-related lncRNAs in cancer progression. Using public RNA-sequencing datasets from the left ventricle and whole blood of HF patients, as well as colon cancer tumors, we identified HF-related lncRNAs with predicted competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) interactions. These were integrated with co-expression analysis and upregulated colon cancer protein-coding genes to construct an HF-related regulatory network associated with colon cancer and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT)-associated genes. LINC00670-overexpressing DLD-1 colon cancer cells showed increased migration and expression of Vimentin, along with N-cadherin, ZEB1, ESRP1, and E-cadherin transcript levels. Long-read nanopore sequencing of LINC00670-overexpressing DLD-1 cells revealed positively correlated genes, including type I interferon signaling pathway genes (STAT1 and SLC7A11) and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT)-associated migratory genes (DDIT4 and PABPC1), as genes associated with the response to HF-related LINC00670 overexpression. Our findings reveal LINC00670 as an HF-related lncRNA that promotes partial EMT-transcriptional changes associated with type I interferon-associated genes, suggesting that LINC00670 plays a key role in inducing mesenchymal traits in the cardio-oncological context.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42521052 is a review article
Rosacea is a chronic inflammatory skin disorder driven by dysregulated cathelicidin processing and excessive LL-37, which triggers a circuit involving Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2)/kallikrein-5 (KLK5)-dependent amplification and downstream mechanistic target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1), NF-κB, and NLR family pyrin domain containing 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome pathways. We hypothesized that poly-D,L-lactic acid (PDLLA) could attenuate this inflammatory cascade by inducing macrophage-derived interleukin (IL)-10. PDLLA increased IL-10 secretion from THP-1-derived macrophages in a dose-dependent manner. In LL-37-stimulated HaCaT keratinocytes, LL-37 decreased phosphorylated signal transducer and activator of transcription (pSTAT3)/STAT3, DNA damage-inducible transcript 4 (DDIT4), and phosphorylated AMP-activated protein kinase (pAMPK)/AMPK while increasing phosphorylated protein kinase B (pAKT)/AKT and mTORC1 activation; conditioned media from PDLLA-treated macrophages (CMPDLLA) restored pSTAT3/STAT3, DDIT4, and pAMPK/AMPK, reduced pAKT/AKT, and suppressed pmTOR/mTOR. CMPDLLA attenuated downstream inflammatory responses, including NF-κB nuclear translocation, VEGF production, and NLRP3-inflammasome-mediated IL-18 secretion. These findings were validated using an intradermal LL-37-injected mouse model. Compared with the normal control/saline group, LL-37/saline decreased IL-10, pSTAT3/STAT3, DDIT4, and pAMPK/AMPK while increasing pAKT/AKT, pmTOR/mTOR, pS6K/S6K, TLR2/KLK5/LL-37, NF-κB, VEGF, and NLRP3 inflammasome/IL-18 signaling; PDLLA partially restored the STAT3/DDIT4-AMPK regulatory pattern and suppressed these disease-associated signals. Consequently, PDLLA treatment led to a pronounced reduction in clinical lesion area. Overall, PDLLA may attenuate LL-37-driven cutaneous inflammation by promoting an IL-10-linked STAT3/DDIT4-AKT/AMPK program that suppresses mTORC1 and disrupts cathelicidin amplification, supporting its potential as an injectable immunomodulatory approach for rosacea-like skin inflammation.
As a traditional element of Chinese medicine, Hippocampus erectus is well known for promoting adolescent growth, yet its active fractions and underlying molecular mechanisms remain unclear. In this study, the aqueous extract of H. erectus was subjected to in vitro simulated gastrointestinal digestion and ultrafiltration to separate three molecular weight fractions (<10 kDa, 10-30 kDa, >30 kDa). Their chemical profiles were characterized, and osteogenic activities were systematically evaluated using cell assays, a juvenile rat model, and integrated transcriptomics and data-independent acquisition (DIA) proteomics. Results revealed that chemical profiling showed the >30 kDa fraction was mainly composed of hemocyanin subunits, and the 10-30 kDa fraction was enriched in growth-related amino acids and steroid derivatives; functionally, the 10-30 kDa fraction promoted preosteoblast proliferation and early differentiation via enhanced alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity, while the >30 kDa fraction dominated late osteoblast maturation and mineralization. Both fractions significantly increased rat body and bone length by expanding growth plate proliferative zones and elevating serum insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1)/bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2) levels. Transcriptomic and proteomic analyses identified vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), Wingless-related integration site (Wnt), phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase-protein kinase B (PI3K-Akt), and extracellular matrix (ECM)-receptor interaction as potential core regulatory pathways. Integrated multi-omics analysis further confirmed Frizzled-related protein B (Frzb) and AKT1 substrate 1 (Akt1s1) as candidate key regulatory targets enriched in the Wnt and adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) signaling pathways. These findings elucidate the multi-fraction, multi-pathway mechanism of H. erectus in promoting skeletal development, providing scientific evidence for its traditional use and a theoretical basis for growth-promoting functional food development.
RASopathies comprise a group of congenital malformation syndromes with predominant neuro-cardio-facial-cutaneous involvement resulting from pathogenic variants in RAS/mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway genes. In this study 33 patients are presented with their clinical and molecular findings as an RASopathy cohort including a family with an AMMECR1-related disorder. The diagnostic distribution of the cohort included Noonan syndrome (n = 18), neurofibromatosis type 1 (n = 8), and single cases of cardiofaciocutaneous syndrome, Costello syndrome, neurofibromatosis-Noonan syndrome, NF1 microdeletion syndrome, Noonan syndrome-like disorder with loose anagen hair, Noonan syndrome with multiple lentigines and AMMECR1-related midface hypoplasia, hearing impairment, elliptocytosis, and nephrocalcinosis (MIM# 300990). The most prevalent clinical manifestations were dermatological findings (90.9%), skeletal features (84.4%), cardiovascular involvement (75.8%), and typical craniofacial dysmorphism suggestive of RASopathy (72.7%). Variants were most frequently identified in PTPN11 and NF1, followed by single cases involving the BRAF, HRAS, LZTR1, RAF1, RIT1, SHOC2, and SOS1. Notably, one patient harbored a variant in AMMECR1, which is not involved in the RAS/MAPK pathway. Overall, this study delineates the clinical and molecular landscape of a cohort from Türkiye and underscores that the AMMECR1-related phenotype represents a distinct entity that closely mimics Noonan syndrome.© 2026 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Cisplatin is a widely used chemotherapeutic agent whose clinical utility is limited by various adverse effects. Although skeletal muscle loss during chemotherapy is often attributed to cachexia or generalized wasting, accumulating evidence indicates that cisplatin directly induces skeletal muscle atrophy. However, the underlying cellular stress responses and signaling pathways remain unclear. In this study, we investigated the involvement of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and translational regulation in cisplatin-induced skeletal muscle atrophy, focusing on DNA damage-inducible transcript 4/Regulated in development and DNA damage response-1 (Ddit4/REDD1), a stress-responsive inhibitor of mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1). Using a mouse model and differentiated C2C12 myotubes, we examined ER stress signaling, protein synthesis, and mTORC1 activity following cisplatin treatment, and evaluated the effects of tauroursodeoxycholic acid (TUDCA), an ER stress-suppressing chemical chaperone. Cisplatin induced skeletal muscle atrophy accompanied by ER stress activation and suppression of protein synthesis in mice. TUDCA significantly attenuated muscle mass and strength loss without affecting body weight reduction. Cisplatin upregulated ER stress-responsive genes and decreased phosphorylation of p70 S6 kinase, whereas these changes were suppressed by TUDCA. Pharmacological ER stress induction increased Ddit4/REDD1 expression, and PERK inhibition reduced cisplatin-induced Ddit4/REDD1 upregulation in C2C12 myotubes. Furthermore, Ddit4/REDD1 knockdown partially restored protein synthesis and mTORC1 signaling. These findings indicate that cisplatin induces skeletal muscle atrophy via ER stress-associated translational suppression, at least partly through Ddit4/REDD1-mediated inhibition of mTORC1.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Central conducting lymphatic anomaly (CCLA) is a devastating disorder where precision medicine can be lifesaving. Diagnosing CCLA is challenging due to its broad spectrum of symptoms, including nonimmune fetal hydrops, chylothorax, chylous ascites, or lymphedema. For that reason, genetic diagnosis is essential to uncover new genes and variants causing this debilitating disease. A patient with complex congenital heart disease presented with post-operative refractory chylothorax. Lymphatic imaging demonstrated abnormal intercostal lymphatic perfusion consistent with CCLA and suggestive of a RASopathy, a group of genetic disorders characterized by dysregulated RAS-MAPK signaling. Genetic testing showed a variant of uncertain significance (p.(Ala308Val)) in SHOC2, a scaffolding protein that regulates RAS-MAPK signaling but has not yet been described in CCLA. Trametinib, a MEK1/2 inhibitor, was trialed without improvement. A conversion/extension assay was used to evaluate pathogenicity of the VUS compared to a known pathogenic variant. Zebrafish transiently expressing the wild type human SHOC2 protein or SHOC2 p.(Ala308Val) protein in the developing lymphatic and venous endothelium were used to evaluate the effect on the vasculature. Western blot was used to explore the underlying molecular mechanisms. Major to minor axis ratio was significantly increased in developing embryos injected with SHOC2 r.923c>u mRNA, indicating pathogenicity through dysregulation of MAPK/mTOR signaling. Zebrafish transiently expressing SHOC2 p.(Ala308Val) in the lymphovenous endothelium developed pericardial edema and cystic malformations of the caudal plexus and dilation of the thoracic duct. In concordance with the lack of clinical response to trametinib, immunoblot results indicate that SHOC2 p.(Ala308Val) may be inducing lymphatic malformations through non-canonical mTOR signaling rather than dysregulated RAS-MAPK signaling. SHOC2 is a novel cause of central conducting lymphatic anomaly. Future research should investigate the cellular and molecular mechanisms as well as therapeutics.© 2026 Wiley Periodicals LLC. This article has been contributed to by U.S. Government employees and their work is in the public domain in the USA.
Early identification of genetically superior animals is important for improving growth performance and accelerating genetic gain in swamp buffalo breeding programs. This study investigated the genetic relationships between growth and body structural traits and evaluated their potential use as early selection indicators in Thai swamp buffalo. Phenotypic records from 1034 animals and genotypic data from 462 buffaloes genotyped with 30,979 SNP markers were analyzed using weighted single-step genomic best linear unbiased prediction (WssGBLUP) and weighted single-step Genome-Wide Association Study (WssGWAS) approaches. Moderate to high heritability estimates were observed for growth traits (0.41-0.59), whereas body structural traits showed low to moderate heritability (0.08-0.27). Positive genetic correlations were identified between growth traits and several structural traits, particularly heart girth, hip height, and body depth. Principal component analysis identified two major components explaining 80.1% of the total phenotypic variation, with the first principal component (PC1) representing overall body size and skeletal development. PC1 also showed relatively high heritability (0.57), indicating its potential utility as a composite selection trait. Genome-wide association analysis identified significant SNPs and candidate genes associated with weaning weight and PC1, including ST6GALNAC5, EPHA6, SYN3, DDIT4, DNAJB12, BLCAP, and NNAT, which are involved in growth regulation, metabolism, cellular development, and stress-response pathways. These findings demonstrate that body structural traits are genetically associated with growth performance and may serve as effective early selection indicators in genomic breeding programs for Thai swamp buffalo.
N-acetyltransferase 10 (NAT10) is the principal enzyme responsible for N4-acetylcytidine (ac4C) modification in mRNA, a process that regulates target gene expression and contributes to the development of various diseases. Emerging evidence indicates that NAT10 plays a role in tumor progression across multiple cancer types; however, its specific function in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the role of NAT10-mediated ac4C modification in HNSCC cell proliferation. NAT10 expression was analyzed at the RNA and protein levels by quantitative real-time PCR and western blot, respectively. Dot blot was used to assess global ac4C levels. Cell proliferation was evaluated through CCK-8 and colony formation assays. ac4C RNA immunoprecipitation quantitative PCR (acRIP-qPCR) was employed to detect ac4C modification on DDIT4 mRNA, and RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP) was used to examine the interaction between NAT10 and DDIT4 mRNA. Results showed that NAT10 was significantly overexpressed in HNSCC tissues and cell lines, and high NAT10 expression was associated with poor overall survival. Knockdown of NAT10 markedly inhibited HNSCC cell proliferation. Furthermore, DDIT4, which was also upregulated in HNSCC samples, was identified as a downstream target of NAT10. NAT10 directly bound to DDIT4 mRNA and enhanced its stability. Restoration of DDIT4 expression reversed the anti-proliferative effect induced by NAT10 silencing. In summary, NAT10 promotes HNSCC proliferation by mediating ac4C modification of DDIT4 mRNA, underscoring the NAT10/ac4C/DDIT4 axis as a potential therapeutic target in HNSCC.© 2026. The Author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42399768
Breast cancer (BC) is the most common malignancy among women worldwide. Although observational studies have linked carnitine-related metabolites (CRMs) to BC, causal inference has been limited by confounding and reverse causality. This study used Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis to investigate the potential causal link between CRMs and BC.MR analysis was conducted using the Cancer Genome Atlas-BC and CRM-related datasets to explore the potential causal relationship between CRMs and BC. Variants were screened based on criteria encompassing genome-wide significance (p < 5×10-8), independence (r 2 < 0.001, kb=10000), and sufficient strength (F-statistic > 10). Various MR techniques, including inverse-variance weighted, MR-Egger, simple mode, weighted mode, and weighted median approaches, were applied to assess these potential causal associations. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was employed to investigate the expression and biological functions of biomarkers linked to metabolites.The MR analysis suggested that genetically predicted elevated levels of octanoylcarnitine and decanoylcarnitine were associated with increased risk of BC. Functional enrichment analysis identified 12 candidate genes associated with these metabolites, which are involved in fatty acid β-oxidation (FAO) pathways. ScRNA-seq analysis revealed eight distinct cell subpopulations, with macrophages exhibiting the highest intercellular communication. Six biomarkers were identified as potential contributors to BC development: ACADM, FNIP2, RAPGEF2, RABGGTB, PPID, and ST6GALNAC3.This study provides evidence supporting potential causal associations between octanoylcarnitine and decanoylcarnitine and BC risk. Integrative single-cell transcriptomics revealed six CRM-associated biomarkers and their dynamic expression within tumor microenvironments. Additional experimental and clinical studies are needed to validate these observations and clarify their biological and translational relevance.Copyright © 2026 Termedia & Banach.
The Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH) diet reduces blood pressure and cholesterol. However, the mechanisms underlying these effects are unclear, and no randomized studies have evaluated the long-term benefits on health outcomes such as coronary artery disease (CAD) or type 2 diabetes (T2D). We performed a series of Mendelian randomization analyses of 71 serum proteins perturbed by the DASH diet in previous randomized controlled feeding studies to understand their potential mechanistic role on health outcomes. Four proteins (ANGPTL3, INHBC, PCOLCE, PLXNB2) had causal evidence of beneficial effects on risk factors that aligned with diet-induced changes in protein levels. Missense variants in INHBC and PLXNB were associated with lower risks of CAD and T2D respectively, and these effects are directionally concordant with DASH diet-induced changes in protein levels, providing causal evidence that these proteins influence disease risk. Combining molecular phenotyping in randomized interventional studies with human genetics evidence identified molecular regulators of the long-term cardioprotective effects of the DASH diet.
Sepsis is a life-threatening systemic inflammation marked by an initial hyperinflammatory phase. Tregs are pivotal in tempering this early immune response. Semaphorins, originally neuronal guidance cues, have emerged as immune modulators. Notably, Sema3E influences dendritic cell and T cell responses, but its role in Treg-mediated regulation during endotoxemia is unclear. WT and Sema3e-/- mice were subjected to LPS-induced endotoxemia. Treg frequencies, proliferation and migration were assessed by flow cytometry and Transwell assays, respectively. Serum cytokines (eg IL-10) were quantified using ELISA. A TNFRSF25 agonist was administered to expand Tregs in vivo, and adoptive transfers of WT or Sema3e-/- Tregs were performed. Clinical scores and survival were recorded. Sema3e-/- mice exhibited significantly impaired Treg expansion and proliferation, altered migratory patterns with reduced Treg accumulation in spleen and lymph nodes, and consequently lower serum cytokine levels (eg IFN-γ) compared to WT, correlating with exacerbated disease severity. DR3-mediated Treg expansion in Sema3e-/- mice did not improve their clinical outcomes. Furthermore, adoptively transferred Sema3e-/- Tregs failed to confer protection in endotoxemic recipients, unlike WT Tregs. Sema3E is essential for optimal Treg responses and immune regulation during severe LPS-induced inflammation. Its absence compromises Treg expansion, localization, and function, worsening sepsis outcomes. These findings highlight Sema3E as a critical component of Treg-mediated immunosuppression and a potential therapeutic target for improving immune homeostasis in sepsis.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists.
[This corrects the article DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0350102.].Copyright: © 2026 Chen et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Airway epithelial cells (AEC) are the primary sources of Semaphorin3E (Sema3E) in human airways and its expression is downregulated in severe asthmatics, underscoring the AEC-derived Sema3E critical role in lung homeostasis. Here, we investigated the effects of AEC-derived Sema3E on immune responses in an acute house dust mite (HDM) asthma model. Transgenic Sema3E overexpression in AECs, using tamoxifen-inducible Scgb1a1Cre, did not alter lung neutrophils, eosinophils, macrophages, dendritic cells, B cells, and CD4 T-cell number and BALF cytokine levels. However, it significantly increased lung Foxp3+ Treg cell number and proliferation. To assess the role of Sema3E-plexinD1 signaling in Foxp-3 cells, cell-specific Foxp3-PLXND1 knockout (KO) mice were subjected to HDM exposure. These mice exhibited reduced Foxp3+ Treg cell numbers in the lungs, spleen, and mediastinal lymph nodes, accompanied by increased lung eosinophil infiltration, elevated IFN-γ+ CD4+ T cells in the spleen, and higher BALF levels of IL-17, IL-5, and CXCL8. Foxp3 PLXND1 deficiency also enhanced the number of T follicular helper cells, germinal center B cells, and IgG1/IgE antibodies in sera. Additionally, Muc5AC gene expression and goblet cell hyperplasia were elevated in Foxp3PLXND1 KO mice. These findings highlight the Sema3E-plexinD1 axis as a key regulator of Treg cell-mediated immune homeostasis, suggesting its therapeutic potential in asthma.© 2026 The Author(s). The FASEB Journal published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
A role for the trafficking receptor SORLA (Sortilin-related receptor containing LDLR class A repeats) in reducing Aβ levels has been well established; however, relatively little is known with respect to whether and how SORLA can potentially affect tau pathology in vivo. Here, we show that transgenic SORLA up-regulation (SORLA TG) can attenuate pathological effects in aged PS19 (P301S tau) mouse brain, including tau phosphorylation and seeding, ventricle dilation, synapse loss, long-term potentiation (LTP) impairment, and glial hyperactivation. Proteomic analysis indicates attenuation of PS19 profiles in PS19/SORLA TG hippocampus, including pathological changes in synapse-related proteins and key drivers of synaptic dysfunction such as ApoE and C1q. Single-nucleus RNA sequencing analysis reveals suppression of PS19 signatures with SORLA up-regulation and identifies a previously unrecognized involvement of Sema4D-PlexinB1/B2 signaling in glial pathology. In contrast, SORLA deletion exacerbates tau seeding and aggregation, glial hyperactivation, and PlxnB1/B2 induction in PS19 hippocampus. These results indicate that SORLA confers neuroprotection against tau toxicity in the PS19 mouse brain.
Extrachromosomal circular DNA (eccDNA), characterized by abundant amplicons and high chromatin accessibility, contributes to tumor heterogeneity and transcriptional activity; however, its single-cell dynamics in cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (CSCC) remain poorly understood. Here, we developed a single-cell framework eccDNAscope that reconstructs eccDNA structures and infers clonal trajectories from scATAC-seq data. Integrative analysis of 154,624 single cells revealed that eccDNAs were broadly distributed across diverse cell types but exhibited striking enrichment at promoter regions (79.94%), where they were associated with elevated expression of cell type-specific eccDNA-associated genes. The framework identified both known oncogenic eccDNAs (MYC) and previously unrecognized eccDNAs (PTMA, NRP2, and KLF7), which were independently validated by DNA fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), super-resolution microscopy, Immuno-FISH, and Circle-seq. These eccDNAs displayed enhanced transcriptional activity in the epithelial cell populations in which they were detected. We further identified CSCC-specific eccDNAs that were enriched in cell cycle-related pathways, including CACYBP, which was exclusively detected in CSCC, but was not observed in actinic keratosis (AK) or para-tumor tissues. Finally, eccDNA-based phylogenetic reconstruction identified conserved and tissue-specific eccDNA programs during disease evolution, and highlighted recurrent eccDNAs, particularly PTMA and CACYBP, as potential drivers of CSCC progression. Collectively, our single-cell analysis provides a framework for dissecting eccDNA-mediated oncogenesis and offers insights into therapeutic strategies targeting eccDNA-positive clones in cancer.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and its receptor VEGFR are master regulators of vasculogenesis and angiogenesis. VEGF activates VEGFR by inducing its dimerization and trans-autophosphorylation. The coreceptor neuropilin (Nrp1 and Nrp2) and heparan sulfate proteoglycan (HSPG) modulate VEGF-VEGFR signaling, but the underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood. Here we report a cryo-EM structure of the dimeric mouse VEGF164-VEGFR2-Nrp1 ectodomain complex with a 2:2:2 stoichiometry, revealing direct Nrp1-VEGFR2 interactions that stabilize the VEGFR2 dimer. We also determined two cryo-EM structures of the VEGF164-VEGFR2-Nrp1 complex in the presence of short- or long-chain heparin, which bridges all three proteins and promotes the formation of two distinct tetrameric complexes. Long-chain heparin induces a cis tetrameric complex consistent with receptor clustering on the same cell surface, whereas short-chain heparin promotes a trans tetrameric assembly which might be formed by two dimeric complexes from opposing cells. Our structure-based mutational analyses support the model that both the Nrp1-VEGFR2 interface and the heparin-mediated clustering enhance VEGFR2 signaling.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42547642 is a review article
The α 1A-adrenergic receptor, encoded by ADRA1A, couples to heterotrimeric Gq/11 proteins, promoting intracellular calcium mobilization and PKC activation. In human hepatocytes, it regulates acute metabolic responses and impacts gene expression. Although fundamental hepatic functions of ADRA1A have been described, its role in hepatocellular carcinoma remains elusive. We hypothesized that ADRA1A expressed in liver cancer tissue is part of a signaling repertoire potentially linked to patient outcomes. We analyzed The Cancer Genome Atlas liver cancer datasets and found ADRA1A gene deletion in 6% of patients and more prolonged survival of patients with high ADRA1A expression. Thus, we aimed to identify ADRA1A-signaling partners equally linked to more prolonged patient survival. Through a rational data mining strategy, based on the identification of the signaling repertoire linked to ADRA1A expression and statistical correlation with patient survival, we identified a transcriptional signature integrated by the adrenoceptor and five candidate signaling companions including two RhoGEFs: FGD4 and FARP2, a phospholipid phosphatase: PLPP6, a RabGAP: TBC1D2B, and an RTK adaptor: BAIAP2. Additionally, highly co-expressed GPCRs such as ACKR2, DRD1, ADRA1B, GPR17, S1PR1, and GPR182, and RTKs like KDR and TEK similarly integrated transcriptional signatures with ADRA1A that correlated with more prolonged survival. Most ADRA1A candidate signaling partners were well-co-expressed with hepatocyte markers, suggesting that integrating ADRA1A-associated signaling networks could improve liver cancer patients' prognosis.The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s40203-026-00706-4.© The Author(s) 2026.
Lead (Pb2+) is a well-established neurotoxin that impairs motor, learning, and memory functions, particularly in children and younger adults. However, its impact on older adults remains less understood. Pb2+ toxicity involves disruption of DNA methyltransferase activity and associated epigenetic pathways, potentially altering the expression of specific genes relevant to neurological functions. As methylation patterns naturally shift during aging, Pb2+ exposure may induce additional neurological risks in aged populations. Using a zebrafish model, we investigated the combined effects of Pb2+ exposure and brain aging. Two-year-old male zebrafish were exposed to 1, 10, 100, 1000, 10 000 µg/l Pb2+ or fish water control for five days. Brain tissues were collected for DNA extraction and whole-genome bisulfite sequencing to assess global and gene-specific methylation changes. Our results found that Pb2+ exposures ≥ 100 μg/l significantly increased global methylation levels in the aged brain. Differentially methylated genes (DMGs) exhibited methylation changes within gene body regions and were mostly annotated with ion transportation and signal transduction pathways. Although only a limited number of DMGs showed corresponding changes in gene expression, several of them were associated with locomotor-related functions, including shank1 at 10 000 Pb2+ μg/l, and ptprsa, plxna2, and aopep at 100 μg/l Pb2+. These findings suggest that Pb2+ exposure during aging predominantly induces gene body-localized DNA methylation changes, and the role of such epigenetic regulation in Pb-associated neurobehavioral outcomes warrants further investigation.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Neural functions and circuit formation rely on intricate crosstalk among various cell types during critical periods. Disruptions or delays in this crosstalk between neurons and astrocytes lead to abnormal neural functions and neurodevelopmental disorders. However, the lack of robust mouse models to study the crosstalk between astrocytes and neurons thus renders unclear the implications of impeding such interactions. In this study, we demonstrate that Egfr knockout during the critical period of neuronal maturation results in a transient absence of astrocytes, with recovery observed in adult mice. This model thus provides a unique opportunity to investigate the effects of impaired astrocyte-neuron communication during development. Mechanically, we show that loss of Egfr disrupts the Egfr-pERK-Epb41l2 signaling axis, which in turn prevents glial progenitor cells from migrating outward. More importantly, Egfr deficiency during the critical period compromises astrocyte-neuron communication via the Sema6a-Plxna2/4 ligand-receptor pair. This impaired intercellular crosstalk reduces neuronal dendritic complexity and excitability, ultimately culminating in depressive-like behaviors in adult mice.© 2026. The Author(s).
The cerebral cortex is organized along a dominant sensorimotor-to-association (S-A) axis, anchored by modality-specific primary sensorimotor areas at one end and transmodal association areas forming distributed networks that support abstract cognition at the other1-11. The developmental mechanisms shaping this axis remain unclear9-24. Here we present converging multispecies evidence supporting the multinodal induction-exclusion in network development (MIND) model, in which S-A patterning is governed by competing processes of induction and exclusion driven by two opposing transcriptomically defined programs. 'Pericentral' programs are induced around the frontotemporal poles, progress inwards toward the central regions of the undifferentiated neocortex and define higher-order association features. 'Central' programs are induced centrally through first-order sensorimotor thalamocortical inputs, establish primary areas and exclude pericentral programs. These conserved programs compete for space, resulting in compartmentalized expression of axon guidance, cell-cell adhesion, retinoic acid signalling, synaptogenesis, WNT signalling and autism-risk-associated genes. Notably, PLXNC1 and SEMA7A, a receptor-ligand pair representing pericentral and central programs, respectively, exhibit repulsive interactions between primary and higher-order association corticocortical axons. Induction and exclusion together establish an S-A organization in which primary areas emerge as focal islands within a broader ocean of distributed association networks. The MIND model provides a unifying framework for experimental, evolutionary and clinical phenomena, revealing induction and exclusion as antagonistic yet complementary principles shaping the S-A axis and processing hierarchies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Dysregulation of Protein post-translation(PTM) and Treg/Th17 balance contribute to the progression of Hepatocellular Carcinoma(HCC) patients. Our study aims to investigate the ADP-ribosylation mechanisms in regulation of Treg/Th17 ecosystem for HBV+ Hepatocellular Carcinoma patients.We first acquired ADP-ribosylation and Treg/Th17 ecosystem(AT)-associated shared differentially expressed genes(sDEGs) from public bulk profiles of HBV+ Hepatocellular Carcinoma(H-HCC) patients via integrative bioinformatic pipelines(Limma, ssGSEA and WGCNA). Next, Cox regression and integrated machine learning framework identified AT-associated risk groups and hub genes for H-HCC patients. In addition, characters of hub genes in H-HCC were deciphered at bulk and single-cell levels of H-HCC patients. Indeed, ridge regression and artificial intelligence(AI) pipeline(DrugRefLector) enabled the identification of therapeutic agents for AT-associated risk group and H-HCC patients. Finally, in vitro assays estimated the Treg-distributed hub gene pathogenic role in HCC.AT can conduct the risk stratification of H-HCC patients, and PARP1, KPNB1 and FARP2 can be considered as AT-associated hub modulator involved in H-HCC pathogenesis, which was mainly distributed in Treg. Besides, therapeutic agents enriched by machine learning and deep learning pipelines can potentially elaborate drug synergy effects for H-HCC patients.This study first elucidated the AT mechanism and corresponding predictive and therapeutic potentials for H-HCC patients.© 2026. The Author(s).
Renal transplant patients (RTPs) receiving immunomodulatory therapy are at increased risk of severe complications from COVID-19 and other infections. This study aimed to identify immune and proteomic biomarkers associated with COVID-19 in RTPs to improve disease characterization and support future diagnostic and therapeutic strategies.Peripheral blood samples from RTPs with COVID-19 infection, uninfected RTPs, and healthy controls were analyzed using cytokine gene expression profiling and label-free global quantitative proteomics. Differential cytokine expression and proteomic alterations were evaluated across study groups and according to disease severity and recovery status.Cytokine levels differed significantly between healthy controls and COVID-19-affected RTPs (p = 0.04), whereas no significant difference was observed between healthy controls and uninfected RTPs (p = 0.92). Within the RTP-COVID group, cytokine expression varied according to disease severity (p = 0.04) but not between acute and recovery phases (p = 0.39). Proteomic profiling identified eighteen altered protein targets. Eight proteins (SERPINF2, SAA1, HP, PLG, SERPINA3, CFHR1, HRG, and C4A) were associated with RTP-COVID and may represent candidate biomarkers of COVID-19 risk in RTPs. Ten proteins (PLXNA2, CP, A2M, KNG1, CLU, SERPINA5, APOA4, ITIH2, ITIH1, and VTN) were uniquely differentially expressed between RTPs and healthy controls but not between RTP-COVID patients and controls.These findings provide preliminary insights into immune and proteomic dysregulation associated with COVID-19 in RTPs and identify potential biomarker candidates for disease risk and severity assessment. However, the small sample size and inclusion of only surviving patients limit the generalizability of the findings. Validation in larger and more diverse cohorts is warranted.Copyright © 2026 Alaiya, Al-Mozaini, Shinwari, Alzayed, Alsharif, Allam, Bakheet, Alharbi, Alotaibi, Idris, Obeid, Alshukairi, Márquez-Méndez, Cerda-Flores and Almojalli.
Genomic instability in high-grade serous tubo-ovarian carcinoma (HGSTOC) can generate fusion genes with potential roles in tumor evolution and clinical relevance. HGSTOCs commonly disseminate prior to diagnosis, but most studies analyze only one tumor sample per patient, limiting understanding of fusion gene dynamics. Here, RNA sequencing was performed on 108 tumor samples from multiple intra‑abdominal sites in 23 patients. A consensus approach involving three fusion callers identified 170 high-confidence fusion genes present in all samples from each patient, most of which were non‑recurrent and not in-frame. Protein kinases were significantly enriched among fusion partners, and commonly retained intact catalytic domains. Several of the kinase fusion genes may have oncogenic relevance, including AKAP8L::BRD4 (recurrent in three patients), GPBP1L1::MKNK1, SPAG16::ERBB4, UGP2::MAPK4, and STRN3::PRKD1. Four fusions involved homologous recombination-related genes, including FUT10::SPIDR, RAD54B::VIRMA, RAD54L::PLXNA2, and SMARCAD1::BOD1L1. Integration of these fusion genes with other somatic alterations in homologous recombination-related genes, deficiency signatures, and germline BRCA1/2 variants increased the involvement of the homologous recombination pathway to 15 HGSTOCs (65%). Overall, HGSTOC has a heterogeneous fusion gene landscape, and multi-site sampling with consensus calling offers a robust strategy for resolving fusion profiles.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Ovarian cancer is the most fatal gynecological malignancy, characterized by difficult early diagnosis, high invasiveness and metastasis, and frequent chemoresistance, highlighting an urgent need for targeted therapeutic agents with high efficacy and low toxicity. Hesperetin is a natural flavonoid with antitumor potential but limited activity and druggability. In this study, a novel hesperetin derivative DU12 was synthesized, and its anti-ovarian cancer effects in vitro and in vivo as well as the underlying molecular mechanisms were systematically investigated. In vitro experiments demonstrated that DU12 concentration-dependently inhibited the proliferation, colony formation, migration, and invasion of SKOV3 and A2780 ovarian cancer cells. Kinase profiling, surface plasmon resonance (SPR), isothermal titration calorimetry (ITC), and molecular docking assays confirmed that cyclin-dependent kinase 17 (CDK17) is the direct target of DU12, and DU12 markedly suppressed CDK17 kinase activity. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) and functional assays revealed that DU12 downregulated the semaphorin 6C (SEMA6C)‑plexin A2 (PLXNA2) signaling pathway by targeting CDK17. Mechanistic studies suggested that CDK17 directly bound to SEMA6C and may maintain its protein stability by inhibiting K63-linked ubiquitination and degradation of SEMA6C, thereby promoting malignant progression of ovarian cancer, The cytoplasmic domain of SEMA6C is the key core region responsible for its specific binding to CDK17. rescue experiments verified that the CDK17-SEMA6C-Plexin A2 axis is the key mediator of the anti-ovarian cancer effects of DU12. In vivo nude mouse xenograft assays revealed that DU12 significantly suppressed tumor growth and downregulated the expression of CDK17, SEMA6C, and PLXNA2 in tumor tissues. Meanwhile, absorption, distribution, metabolism, excretion, and toxicity (ADMET) prediction and in vivo safety evaluation indicated that DU12 exhibited favorable water solubility, oral bioavailability, and plasma protein binding rate, with no obvious hepatorenal or hematologic toxicity at effective doses. Collectively, this study confirms that the hesperetin derivative DU12 inhibits ovarian cancer proliferation and metastasis by targeting the CDK17-SEMA6C -Plexin A2 axis, with favorable bioactivity and safety, providing a novel candidate small-molecule drug and a new therapeutic target for ovarian cancer.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Human nephrogenesis is complete at 34-36 weeks gestation, with 60% of nephrons forming during the third trimester through lateral branch nephrogenesis (LBN). Currently, no mechanism exists for LBN as there are no late gestation human kidney transcriptional datasets. We hypothesized that an induced but dividing population of nephron progenitor cells (NPCs) would contribute to the amplification of nephrons in late gestation. We used the rhesus macaque, an established model of LBN, to help identify potential mechanisms.Single-cell RNA-sequencing (scRNA-Seq) was performed on cortically-enriched fetal rhesus kidneys (n = 9) from late second trimester and third trimester during LBN. This data was integrated with publicly available human scRNA-seq datasets from 8-18 weeks gestation kidneys (n = 8) using Harmony package. Differentially expressed genes and ligand-receptor interactions were assessed and validated using RNAScope™ on human and rhesus archival tissue.Label transfer of previously defined kidney cell populations was performed on scRNA-seq data from 64,782 rhesus cells, including 7,879 nephron progenitor cells (NPCs) identified based on marker gene expression. Pseudotime analyses identified a late gestation-specific lineage branch of induced NPC in rhesus that was not observed in mid-gestation humans. Differential expression analyses identified increased SFRP1, FZD4, and TLE2 and decreased FZD7, SHISA2, SHISA3, and TLE4 within the late-gestation rhesus NPC compared to mid-gestation human NPC and increased SEMA3D within the rhesus ureteric bud (UB) tip, suggesting a compositional shift in WNT and SEMA signaling components within the naive NPC population during LBN.The rhesus macaque uniquely enables molecular studies of late-gestation primate nephrogenesis. Our study suggests the hypothesis that a transitional state of self-renewing NPCs supported by compositional shifts in key pathways may underlie the switch from branching phase nephrogenesis to lateral branch nephrogenesis and support ongoing nephron formation in late gestation. However, it remains to be determined if these changes within the late gestation NPC are time-dependent or species-dependent.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42568102 is a review article
Developmental dysplasia of the hip (DDH) often affects young, active patients and can lead to early osteoarthritis. Periacetabular osteotomy (PAO) is a joint-preserving surgery to reorient the acetabulum and delay arthritis. The impact of PAO on return to sports and the factors influencing return to sport or patient satisfaction remain insufficiently documented. Therefore we performed a retrospective investigation aiming to: 1) evaluate the rate of return to sport after PAO, 2) identify factors associated with return to sport, patient satisfaction, and the achievement of a patient-acceptable symptom state (PASS).PAO allows return to sport at a rate exceeding 80%.We reviewed a consecutive series of 43 hips in 42 patients who underwent PAO between 2012 and 2020 at a single center. Data were collected prospectively and analyzed retrospectively. The mean age at surgery was 29.7 ± 9.7 years (range, 13-52), with 35 (83%) women. All patients met inclusion criteria of symptomatic hip dysplasia painful groin symptomatology with a LCEA < 25° and Tönnis grade ≤1 osteoarthritis. Clinical outcomes were assessed preoperatively and at last follow-up using patient-reported outcome measures (UCLA, mHHS, HOOS). Patients were surveyed about their return to sports (three‑level, referenced to the pre‑symptom level) and rated their satisfaction (5‑level Likert‑type item). Acceptable symptomatic status (PASS) was defined as reaching threshold scores. Complications were graded with a hip‑adapted Clavien-Dindo scheme. Radiological analysis included LCEA and Tönnis angles pre- and postoperatively, as well as the evolution of osteoarthritis according to the Tönnis classification. Native hip survivorship was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, with conversion to, or formal listing for, total hip arthroplasty (THA) defined as the endpoint.At last follow-up (mean follow-up 3.8 years, range 2-12), PROMs improved substantially. UCLA, mHHS and HOOS scores increased from 6.7 ± 1.1 to 8.5 ± 1.3, from 55.9 ± 18.4 to 80.9 ± 14.6 and 49.5 ± 18.5 to 80.9 ± 14.6 respectively (p < 0.001). In total 39/43 patients (91%) returned to sports (22/43 (52%) at a level higher than pre‑op but below pre‑symptom, 17/43 (40%) at the pre‑symptom level); 4/43 (9%) did not return. Return to sport was strongly associated with achieving acceptable symptom status (PASS), with 35/39 (89.7%) of patients returning to sports reaching the PASS threshold compared to 1/4 (25%) among those who did not (p = 0.01). Radiographic parameters did not emerge as significant independent predictors of clinical success in this cohort. No signal of accelerated radiographic deterioration was observed: preoperatively, 42 of 43 hips (98%) were Tönnis grade 0 or 1. Among the 24 hips with available radiographs at final follow-up, 20 out 24 (83%) maintained their preoperative Tönnis grade, with only 4 (17%) showing osteoarthritic progression. The Kaplan-Meier survival probability of the native hip at the mean follow-up of 3.8 years was 97.7% (95% CI: 93.2%-100%).PAO yielded a high short‑term return‑to‑sports rate with large, clinically meaningful PROM gains that align with satisfaction and PASS, with an overall return-to-sport rate above 90%. Limitations include retrospective design, non‑standardized records of sport discipline/exposure, use of non‑PAO‑validated PASS thresholds (used here as a comparability endpoint), and limited long‑term radiographic follow‑up.IV; case series.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.
Adults with major lower limb amputation (LLA) due to dysvascular etiology often experience diverse health outcomes. However, the absence of standardized outcome reporting limits the ability to synthesize evidence, evaluate care models, and develop consistent clinical pathways. This review updates a systematic review on outcome measures and indicators reported in this population.A systematic review update was conducted across six databases (MEDLINE, EMBASE, EBM Reviews, PsycINFO, Web of Science, and CINAHL) from 20 April 2017 to 1 December 2022. All study designs were eligible; however, the articles needed to report outcome measures and indicators on at least 50% of the adult population with major dysvascular LLAs. The extracted outcome measures and indicators were organized according to Dodd's framework and then reclassified alongside those reported in the study by Ambler and colleagues. The pilot phase of data extraction was carried out independently by multiple reviewers, after which a single reviewer completed the data extraction.Of the 12,557 articles, 160 studies reporting data on 228,116 individuals with major dysvascular LLA met the inclusion criteria. Combining these with the 440 studies from the previous review, 2,466 outcome measures and indicators were categorized in five core areas: life impact (25.7%), physiological/clinical (23.4%), death (18.7%), resource use (17.6%), and adverse events (14.6%). In terms of the outcome domains, mortality/survival was the most commonly reported domain, followed by physical functioning (e.g. prosthesis fit, use), skin (e.g., stump wound healing), nervous system outcomes (e.g., residual limb pain), need for further interventions (e.g., prescription of medications), hospital outcomes (e.g., duration of stay, discharge), and adverse events.This study builds on a previous review by identifying and categorizing outcome measures and indicators in adults with major dysvascular LLA, highlighting inconsistencies in outcome reporting across studies. The absence of a standardized set of outcome measures and indicators limits the ability to conduct meta-analyses or systematic reviews, evaluate the effectiveness of care models, and establish clinical pathways. Developing a core outcome set tailored to the needs of individuals with dysvascular LLA could help address these challenges by promoting consistency in outcome reporting and enabling meaningful comparisons across studies. Ultimately, this could contribute to improving the quality, efficiency, and person-centeredness of care.PROSPERO (CRD42023388570).© 2026. The Author(s).
MET exon 14 skipping is an actionable oncogenic driver in non-small cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC); however, noncanonical splice-region variants are frequently classified as variants of unknown significance (VUS), which may result in missed therapeutic opportunities and highlight limitations in current DNA next-generation sequencing (NGS) reporting criteria. We report a patient with pulmonary sarcomatoid carcinoma harboring a noncanonical MET splice donor-proximal indel (c.3022_3028 + 13delinsA), initially interpreted as a VUS, who achieved a rapid and durable response to capmatinib. Subsequent RNA sequencing and droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) confirmed MET exon 14 skipping, supporting the value of orthogonal transcript-level validation for exon-adjacent variants.© 2026 The Author(s). Thoracic Cancer published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
There is limited real-world evidence on the diagnosis, treatment, and outcomes of refractory status epilepticus (RSE) in Latin America. This study describes the clinical characteristics, management, and outcomes of RSE in a tertiary neurological intensive care unit (NICU) in Mexico. We conducted a retrospective cohort study of adults (≥ 18 years) with RSE admitted from 2010 to 2022. All patients were initially analyzed as a single cohort; a prespecified secondary analysis stratified patients by preexisting epilepsy and identified those with new-onset RSE (NORSE). Patients were identified via electronic medical records and met the International League Against Epilepsy (ILAE) definition. Clinical, imaging, laboratory, and EEG data were collected. Outcomes included seizure cessation, functional status at NICU discharge (mRS), and prognostic scores (STESS and END-IT). Statistical analysis involved descriptive measures, chi-square/Fisher's exact tests, t-test or Mann-Whitney U test, and multinomial logistic regression. Significance was set at p < 0.05. We analyzed 102 patients with RSE; 52.9% were women, median age 34 (26-44) years. Preexisting epilepsy was present in 70.6%, and 29.4% had NORSE. Most common etiologies were infections (23.5%), structural/vascular (22.5%), and treatment-related (16.7%). EEG most commonly showed slowing; interictal epileptiform discharges appeared in 27.7%. Treatment was heterogeneous; 82.4% required third-line therapy. Median hospitalization was 21.5 days, with mechanical ventilation averaging 8 days. Resolution occurred in 87.3%. One patient underwent surgery, without complications. Preexisting epilepsy was significantly associated with prior SE (p = 0.011), resolution (p = 0.001), unfavorable mRS (p = 0.046), and higher STESS (p = 0.001) and END-IT (p = 0.021) scores. END-IT also correlated with third-line treatment (p < 0.001). This study offers real-world insights into RSE in a resource-limited setting, highlighting preventable causes, management complexity, and high care demands. Despite limitations, favorable outcomes are often achievable.© 2026. Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature and Neurocritical Care Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42568014 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42567877 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42567841 is a review article
Iron overload (IOL) results from excessive iron accumulation and presents as primary (genetic) or secondary (from transfusions or iron therapy). Management is predominantly invasive-phlebotomy and iron chelation-which, while effective, are costly and can impair quality of life. No standardized dietary guidelines exist. The aim of this scoping review was to map the evidence on diet and dietary factors in the therapeutic management of IOL-associated conditions. We followed Joanna Briggs Institute (JBI) scoping review methodology and a Population/Concept/Context (PCC) framework to define eligibility. A targeted, JBI 3-step search strategy was run in PubMed (National Library of Medicine), Web of Science (Clarivate), Embase (Elsevier), and CINAHL Ultimate (EBSCO), supplemented by gray-literature sources. Records were managed in Covidence; duplicates were removed, then citations were screened by title/abstract using prespecified eligibility criteria and research questions. Search quality was guided by the Peer Review of Electronic Search Strategies (PRESS) checklist, and the study selection is reported in a PRISMA-ScR flow diagram. Research articles were assigned JBI levels of evidence. Evidence was synthesized descriptively and mapped by dietary factor in narrative summaries and tables. Forty sources (38 peer-reviewed articles; 2 gray-literature articles) met the inclusion criteria. The reported dietary factors potentially relevant to IOL management included polyphenols; vitamins and minerals; diet alteration; foods/food additives; alcohol; and amino and fatty acids. The findings were integrated into a visual workflow, and the current evidence on dietary factors in the therapeutic management of IOL was mapped. Substantial gaps were identified, including limited high-quality clinical trials and inconsistent reporting of the effects of specific dietary factors on iron metabolism. The available literature suggests that diet and selected dietary factors may contribute to improved patient outcomes, highlighting the need for rigorous, well-designed studies to develop unified, evidence-based dietary strategies to complement the standard therapies.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the International Life Sciences Institute.
Road traffic crashes cause substantial global mortality and disability. Conventional injury severity scores may not fully capture the complex interactions among demographic, clinical, crash and environmental factors. Artificial intelligence and machine learning may improve mortality prediction by modelling non-linear patterns in traffic crash data.This systematic review followed Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) 2020 guidance. PubMed/MEDLINE, Web of Science, Scopus and IEEE Xplore were searched on 7 August 2025 for English-language peer-reviewed studies published from 2014 to 2025 that applied artificial intelligence or machine learning to predict mortality after road traffic crashes. Two reviewers screened records and extracted data on study characteristics, data sources, algorithms, predictors, validation, imbalance handling and performance. Methodological quality was assessed using the Qiao quality assessment tool. Because of substantial heterogeneity, findings were synthesised narratively.18 studies met the inclusion criteria. Most were retrospective studies using structured tabular data. Common objectives were binary mortality prediction, multiclass injury severity prediction including death and death risk assessment. National or regional databases were the most frequent data sources, followed by hospital records and police or insurance datasets. Regression-based models and decision trees remained common, while ensemble methods including random forest and gradient boosting increased in recent years. Frequently reported predictors included age, Injury Severity Scores, body region injured, crash mechanism, temporal factors and geographical characteristics. Only two studies reported external validation.Artificial intelligence and machine learning show promise for traffic crash mortality prediction, but clinical translation remains limited by insufficient external validation, inconsistent handling of class imbalance, incomplete reporting of tuning and missing data strategies and limited use of explainability methods. Future work should prioritise prospective, externally validated, interpretable models developed using standardised reporting frameworks.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Patients with osteoarthritis (OA) affecting multiple joints experience greater pain than those with single-joint disease, yet most research examines isolated joints, leaving a gap in multi-joint disease. This study aimed to describe radiographic hip (rHOA) and knee OA (rKOA) within UK Biobank (UKB), exploring interrelationships across joints and associations with joint pain, body size, race and deprivation.This cross-sectional study applied machine learning to hip and knee dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry scans. Radiographic OA (rOA) was defined as custom grades ≥2. Joint pain was assessed through self-reported questionnaires. Logistic regression models examined bilateral and cross-joint associations, as well as associations with joint pain. Adjustments were made for age, sex, race, height, weight and deprivation.Among 59,475 individuals (mean age 65 years; range 45-85; SD 7.7; 52.8% female), rHOA prevalence was 4,098 (6.9%, right-side) and 4,841 (8.1%, left-side). The corresponding estimates for rKOA were 3,750 (6.3%) and 4,220 (7.1%). Overall, increasing grades of rOA and number of joints affected were more strongly associated with concurrent joint pain (four-joints: OR 4.3 [95%CI 2.6-7.2]). Regarding joint-interrelationships, bilateral associations were stronger at the knee (26.1 [24.1-28.2]) than the hip (5.6 [5.2-6.1]). Cross-joint associations (hip-knee) were weaker. BMI was more strongly associated with rKOA (1.57 [1.52-1.61]) than rHOA (1.05 [1.02-1.09]). Greater height was positively associated with rHOA but appeared protective for rKOA.Radiographic hip and knee OA exhibit distinct patterns of interrelationship, associations with symptoms and risk factors, suggesting heterogeneity in disease processes and the need for joint-specific treatment.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
Influenza A virus (IAV) remains a major global health threat due to its high mutation rate and the emergence of antiviral resistance. Targeting host factors provides an alternative therapeutic strategy to overcome these challenges. Previous studies have shown that the L-type calcium channel Cav1.2 was implicated in viral infections. In this study, we aimed to clarify the mechanism by which Cav1.2 acts as a critical host factor mediating IAV infection, using the dihydropyridine-type calcium channel blocker nisoldipine. Nisoldipine showed notable antiviral activity in both in vitro and in vivo models. Mechanistically, nisoldipine inhibited IAV internalization by targeting Cav1.2, thereby suppressing calcium-dependent activation of the Ras-PI3K-AKT, RhoA-ROCK, and JNK pathways associated with viral internalization. Moreover, nisoldipine modulated the unfolded protein response (UPR) in host cells by promoting adaptive XBP1 splicing and contributed to the maintenance of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) homeostasis during IAV infection. Collectively, these observations support a sequential cascade model: Cav1.2 inhibition restrains viral entry and indirectly mitigates virus-triggered ER stress. Furthermore, nisoldipine exhibits broad-spectrum in vitro antiviral activity against multiple enveloped RNA and DNA viruses, including human coronavirus OC43 (HCoV-OC43), respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), Zika virus (ZIKV), Dengue virus Type 2 (DENV2), and Herpes Simplex Virus Type 1/2 (HSV-1/2). This study clarifies the mechanistic involvement of Cav1.2 in IAV infection and further identifies it as a promising broad-spectrum antiviral target with potential applications in preventing and treating influenza, human coronavirus infections, and other emerging viral diseases.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Background Anorexia nervosa and binge-eating behaviour are clinically distinct yet genetically and neurobiologically overlapping phenotypes. The molecular systems that differentiate restrictive from binge-related eating pathology remain incompletely defined, particularly when genetic risk is integrated with age-related neuronal chromatin programs. A companion preprint prioritized synaptic vesicle dynamics, Ras homolog family member A (RHOA)-centered trafficking, and mitochondrial substrate utilization as candidate interfaces between eating-disorder genetic risk and nicotinamide mononucleotide (NMN)-sensitive biology. Objective This study aimed to extend the companion NMN-sensitive framework by applying a Polycomb- and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG)-derived multi-gene-set transcriptome-wide association study (TWAS) to the same brain-tissue summary-statistics-based PrediXcan (S-PrediXcan) results for broad anorexia nervosa (AN broad) and broad binge-eating behaviour (BE broad). The analysis is hypothesis-generating and is not an independent replication of the companion study. Methods Sixteen Polycomb- and KEGG-derived gene sets, constructed from age-associated H3K27me3 programs in neurons, were interrogated. Analytical steps included enrichment testing, competitive permutation analysis, bootstrap confidence intervals, disease-differential testing, tissue-level analyses, profile proximity, concordance testing, leave-one-out influence analysis, pooled Benjamini-Hochberg false discovery rate (BH-FDR) correction across the prespecified family of enrichment, differential, proximity, and pairwise tests, network co-occurrence, module clustering, cross-module candidate prioritization, and robustness-weighted prioritization. Results The synaptic vesicle cycle showed the strongest positive enrichment in BE broad (Stouffer Z = 4.628; competitive permutation p = 0.0179; Wilcoxon p = 0.00229; bootstrap 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.93-8.23). Positive tissue-level statistics were observed in the frontal cortex BA9, anterior cingulate cortex BA24, and caudate basal ganglia, although these tissues are correlated and were not treated as independent replications. AN broad exhibited its strongest meta-level signal in axon guidance, with additional enrichment involving adherens junctions, long-term potentiation, and ribonucleic acid (RNA) polymerase-related genes. Stage 3 integration identified four higher-order module clusters, 28 cross-module prioritized candidates influential across at least three modules and both phenotypes, 577 influential candidate genes, and 576 cross-module network nodes. RHOA emerged as a recurrent, high-influence, and directionally unstable network node and candidate linking adhesion, actin remodeling, trafficking, and signaling. Across pathways, the two phenotypes shared substantial molecular infrastructure yet demonstrated only moderate directional concordance, consistent with a dimensional rather than strictly categorical model. Conclusions The results supply structural and regulatory context for the companion NMN framework and support a dimensional model in which the two phenotypes share substantial molecular infrastructure yet differ in pathway magnitude and regional weighting. All pathway and gene prioritizations require independent replication, colocalization, fine-mapping, and functional validation before any mechanistic or therapeutic inference can be drawn.Copyright © 2026, Cheung et al.
Triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) and ovarian cancer share many molecular features and are primarily treated with surgical resection and aggressive chemotherapy regimens. Unfortunately, survival rates for patients with advanced metastatic disease are poor, highlighting the need for innovative therapeutic approaches.Using the DepMap database, we first sought to identify genes that were highly expressed and more essential for proliferation/viability in TNBC cells relative to other breast cancer subtypes. Candidate genes were validated using gene-specific siRNAs in a panel of TNBC and estrogen receptor positive breast cancer cells. CTPS1 expression, and its functional significance, was further evaluated in ovarian cancer models, including chemotherapy- and PARP inhibitor-resistant cell lines. Pharmacologic inhibition was assessed using STP938, a first-in-class selective CTPS1 inhibitor, in TNBC and ovarian cancer cells as well as in ex vivo and in vivo patient-derived xenografts (PDX).Six genes (CTPS1, HUS1, PRKRA, RAD1, RAD9A, and RHOA) were identified as potential TNBC selective dependencies. Among these, CTPS1 was prioritized for further study given that it was highly expressed, further upregulated in chemotherapy- and PARP inhibitor-resistant cell lines, and resulted in the greatest anti-neoplastic effects when depleted. Knockdown of CTPS1 confirmed its selective essentiality and resulted in rapid and durable S-phase cell cycle arrest. Pharmacologic inhibition of CTPS1 with STP938 led to robust anti-neoplastic effects at nM concentrations across both chemotherapy-sensitive and -resistant TNBC and ovarian cancer cell lines. Significant anti-neoplastic activity was observed in 6 independent ex vivo ovarian cancer PDX models. Further, STP938 significantly inhibited progression of an ovarian cancer PDX model in vivo.These findings identify CTPS1 as a critical dependency in TNBC and ovarian cancer. Selective pharmacologic inhibition of CTPS1 using STP938 is a potent inhibitor of tumor cell proliferation/viability and has anti-cancer activity in patient derived ex vivo and in vivo tumor models. These findings suggest that therapeutic targeting of CTPS1 represents an alternative approach for the management of patients with advanced and aggressive forms of these diseases.© The author(s).
The grain aphid, Sitobion avenae Fabricius (Hemiptera: Aphididae), is a vector of yellow dwarf viruses and an important pest of cereals. In a European context, it is the only cereal aphid known to have developed knockdown resistance (kdr). In this study, we genetically screened key regions of the voltage-gated sodium channel (VGSC) known to harbour resistance-conferring mutations. Specimens were sampled across multiple locations and years in Ireland, enabling detection of individuals carrying the L1014F mutation and screening for additional mutations, including those associated with super-kdr.The frequency of the L1014F substitution in samples from Irish suction towers is consistent with frequencies reported in other studies from Ireland and the UK, and we found no strong evidence of an increase in kdr frequency despite the greater reliance on pyrethroids. Importantly, the analysis identified two additional VGSC substitutions corresponding to M918L and L932F, which have been implicated in reduced pyrethroid sensitivity in other insect species. This is the first report globally of these mutations in S. avenae.We identified a super-kdr variant (M918L) and an L932F variant in the grain aphid S. avenae. Because these were detected in archived samples, their impact on in-field resistance in this species is currently unknown; however, based on observations in other aphid species, including cereal aphids, they likely influence resistance phenotypes. Regular monitoring of the incidence and spread of known and emerging insecticide-resistant clonal lineages is essential to preserve the effectiveness of our limited insecticide arsenal and to determine when field efficacy may be insufficient for pest control. © 2026 The Author(s). Pest Management Science published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Society of Chemical Industry.© 2026 The Author(s). Pest Management Science published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Society of Chemical Industry.
Resistance to pyrethroid insecticides has become more frequent in triatomines, associated with point mutations in their target site, the voltage-gated sodium channel (VGSC). These mutations have been reported in Argentina, Bolivia and Mexico, by means of nested PCR. In Chile, the repeated intradomiciliary presence of the vector Triatoma infestans after spraying may be related to resistance; however, target-site mutations have yet to be evaluated. Using a partial sequence of the VGSC as a search query for the T. infestans genome, the complete VGSC gene sequence was obtained. Ten primer pairs were generated with Primer-BLAST and tested in silico by BLAST against the T. infestans genome and against the NCBI nucleotide database (nr) to discard those with low specificity. Conventional PCRs were performed with T. infestans' DNA and the remaining primers, selecting one pair based on sensitivity and the absence of nonspecific bands. The 993 bp sequenced product allows for the evaluation of the three point mutations reported in the VGSC of triatomines. Primer validation was performed with L925I mutation-positive samples from Argentina. Chilean samples from five localities were also amplified and Sanger sequenced in search of mutations. The L925I mutation was detected only in the Argentinean controls. None of the variants evaluated were found in the Chilean samples. These primers will allow rapid evaluation of point mutations in the VGSC, which may be associated with reduced affinity of pyrethroids for their target site; thereby facilitating insecticide resistance surveillance.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Exposure to high levels of fluoride in drinking water has been linked to cognitive impairment, but the molecular mechanisms underlying this neurotoxicity are not fully understood. In this study, a subchronic rat model was used to investigate whether fluoride-induced synaptic damage involves RhoA/ROCK pathway-mediated microglial activation and inflammation. The role of fasudil, a specific RhoA/ROCK inhibitor, was also evaluated. The results demonstrated that fluoride activated the RhoA/ROCK cascade, stimulated microglial activation and subsequent release of pro-inflammatory cytokines, and resulted in hippocampal synaptic injury. Conversely, fasudil attenuated these effects by downregulating Iba1, TNF-α, and ROCK2 expression. Taken together, these findings establish that RhoA/ROCK signaling critically mediates fluoride-induced neuroinflammation and synaptic damage, thereby offering a mechanistic basis for assessing the neurotoxic risk of environmental fluoride exposure.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Irinotecan (CPT-11) is widely used for colorectal cancer treatment, with delayed-onset diarrhea as its primary side effect. Xiao-Chai-Hu-Tang (XCHT) has been clinically observed to alleviate chemotherapy-induced diarrhea, but its underlying mechanisms remain unclear.This study aimed to elucidate the regulatory mechanisms through which XCHT alleviated CPT-11-induced diarrhea using an integrated multi-omics approach.The chemical components of XCHT were detected using UHPLC-QE-Orbitrap-MS, and 12 active components were quantified via UHPLC-QQQ-MS/MS to ensure quality stability. CPT-11-induced diarrheal mice were established to evaluate the therapeutic effects of XCHT. Differential metabolites in liver and intestinal tissues among control, CPT-11, and XCHT mice were analyzed by untargeted metabolomics, followed by molecular network analysis using IPA. Bile acids were quantified using targeted UHPLC-QQQ-MS/MS method. Proteomics of colon tissues identified differentially expressed proteins, with functional enrichment conducted via GO and KEGG. Western blot and flow cytometry were used to validate the potential biopathway.Total 1108 chemical components were identified in XCHT, mainly including flavonoids, terpenoids and phenylpropanoids. XCHT significantly improved diarrhea symptoms and reduced intestinal inflammation. Metabolomics revealed 117 and 53 differential metabolites in the liver and intestine, respectively, with both tissues showing alterations in bile acid metabolism. Targeted bile acid analysis showed that CPT-11 inhibited the synthesis and uptake of bile acids in the liver and enhanced bile excretion, resulting in an increase in bile acids in the gallbladder. Meanwhile, CPT-11 impaired the reabsorption of bile acids in the intestine, leading to a decrease in total bile acid levels, reduction of circulating bile acids, and accumulation of conjugated bile acids in the colon. XCHT reversed these abnormal phenomena, restoring the intestinal bile acid homeostasis. Proteomics identified 86 differentially expressed proteins in colon tissues, with significant enrichment in 'Focal adhesion' pathway. Further verification indicated that CPT-11 abnormally activated the focal adhesion kinase (FAK) and its downstream RhoA/ROCK pathways, then reduced tight junction proteins ZO-1 and Occludin, damaging the intestinal barrier. XCHT inhibited this pathway, restored the expression of tight junction proteins, balanced Th1/Th2 differentiation, and alleviated intestinal inflammation. Cholestyramine, a bile acid chelator, also alleviated CPT-11-induced diarrhea by reducing the accumulation of bile acids in the intestine, confirming the key role of bile acids in the treatment of CPT-11-induced diarrhea.This study revealed that the combined administration of XCHT could restore bile acid reabsorption, reduced the accumulation of conjugated bile acids in the colon, inhibited the abnormally activated FAK-RhoA/ROCK pathway, improved intestinal epithelial barrier function and alleviate diarrhea. These findings provide a new entry point for the treatment of chemotherapy-induced diarrhea (CID) and offer data support for the combined medication regimen of XCHT and CPT-11.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42560626 is a review article
Effective anti-tumor immunity is critically dependent on the functional capacity and robust infiltration of type-1 helper T (Th1) cells into the tumor microenvironment (TME). However, persistent antigenic stimulation leads to T cell exhaustion, determining the efficacy of immunotherapy approaches such as immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs). A key barrier to successful immunotherapy therapy remains the impaired motility and infiltration of exhausted T cells. To address this, we investigated the dual impact of anti-PD-1 and anti-CTLA-4 blockade on the migratory efficacy of ex vivo generated exhausted Th1 (Th1-Ex) cells. Recognizing the limitations of 2D culture, we utilized a 3D microfluidic (lab-on-a-chip) platform to simulate the TME's complex physical and chemical constraints, alongside in vivo patient-derived xenograft (PDX) models. While ICI treatment did not alter static adhesion, it distinctly modulated focal adhesion dynamics. Critically, in the highly relevant 3D microfluidic environment, ICI-treated Th1-Ex cells exhibited significantly enhanced motility and directional persistence compared to untreated cells. Mechanistically, anti-PD-1/CTLA-4 treatment activated signalling pathways associated with both amoeboid and mesenchymal-like migration, but functional inhibition identified RAC1-dependent mesenchymal-like migration as the predominant contributor to the enhanced migratory response. These results were strongly corroborated in vivo, where the anti-PD-1/CTLA-4 combination conferred remarkable and selective tumor and lymph node infiltration capacity to the adoptively transferred Th1-Ex cells. Collectively, our findings highlight a dual role for ICIs on restoring Th1 cell functionality and actively promoting tumor-directed migration by altering adhesion-migration pathways, offering novel mechanistic insights for optimizing immunotherapies in solid tumors.
Clostridioides difficile infection is primarily attributed to toxin A (TcdA) and toxin B (TcdB), the major mediators of epithelial damage and intestinal inflammation. However, strain-dependent differences in pathogenicity have been reported, suggesting that additional bacterial factors may contribute to host inflammatory responses.To compare the inflammatory activity of culture supernatants from the single clinical isolate LIBA-5751/NAPCR1/RT012/ST54 and reference C. difficile strains under toxin-containing and glucose-repressed conditions.C. difficile strains, including the clinical isolates LIBA-5751/NAPCR1/RT012/ST54 and LIBA-5758/NAP1/RT027/ST01 and the reference strains VPI10463/RT003/ST046 and 630/RT012/ST54, were grown anaerobically in tryptose-yeast extract-thioglycolate broth with or without 1% glucose. Glucose-associated reduction of toxin activity was assessed by electrophoretic protein profiling, cytotoxicity assays, and Rac1 glucosylation analysis. Biological activity was evaluated in a mouse ligated ileal loop model by macroscopic examination, histopathology, cytokine quantification, and myeloperoxidase activity.Glucose supplementation did not substantially alter bacterial growth but markedly reduced detectable toxin-associated bands, cytopathic activity, and Rac1 glucosylation. Toxin-containing supernatants from LIBA-5758/NAP1/RT027/ST01 and VPI10463/RT003/ST046 produced the most pronounced epithelial injury. Under the same conditions, LIBA-5758/NAP1/RT027/ST01, VPI10463/RT003/ST046, and LIBA-5751/NAPCR1/RT012/ST54 induced robust inflammatory responses. Under glucose-repressed conditions, epithelial damage was no longer evident, and inflammatory activity was markedly reduced in LIBA-5758/NAP1/RT027/ST01, VPI10463/RT003/ST046, and 630/RT012/ST54. In contrast, supernatants from LIBA-5751/NAPCR1/RT012/ST54 retained substantial inflammatory activity, including increased TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-6, and myeloperoxidase activity, despite the absence of overt epithelial damage.The clinical isolate LIBA-5751/NAPCR1/RT012/ST54 retained substantial inflammatory activity under glucose-repressed conditions despite markedly reduced detectable toxin-associated activity. This phenotype was not observed to the same extent in the other strains examined, including the RT012/ST54 reference strain 630. These findings identify a strain-specific inflammatory phenotype observed in LIBA-5751/NAPCR1/RT012/ST54 and support further investigation into the extracellular factors that may contribute to inflammatory responses in C. difficile.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Neutrophils have been implicated in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis in multiple studies. This study aimed to determine the effects of flavonoids (quercetin and luteolin) and vitamin C on neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) formation and regulation of NET markers, including circulating cell-free DNA (cfDNA) and myeloperoxidase (MPO). Additionally, we assessed the expression of NADPH oxidase complex subunits and superoxide anion generation in neutrophils.Whole blood samples were collected from patients with atherosclerosis. Neutrophils were stimulated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS), and the effects of flavonoids and vitamin C on NET release, NADPH oxidase subunit expression (p47phox, p67phox, Rac1), and superoxide production were evaluated.Atherosclerotic patients showed increased NETosis, with elevated NET release, MPO, and cfDNA levels. Expression of NADPH oxidase subunits p47phox and p67phox and superoxide anion generation were significantly higher compared to controls. LPS further enhanced these effects. Treatment with quercetin, luteolin, and vitamin C reduced NET formation, NADPH oxidase expression, and superoxide production in stimulated neutrophils.Flavonoids and vitamin C modulate NET formation, likely by affecting NADPH oxidase activity and reactive oxygen species production, suggesting potential anti-inflammatory effects relevant to atherosclerosis. Further studies are warranted to evaluate the potential application of these compounds as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of atherosclerosis.Copyright © 2025 Termedia & Banach.
Major depressive disorder (MDD) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) are usually treated as unrelated, yet depressive symptoms occur in a substantial minority of people with ALS and may appear early. These symptoms are heterogeneous and may reflect syndromal MDD, psychological and functional burden, fatigue, apathy, pseudobulbar affect, frontotemporal involvement, sleep or respiratory disturbance, medication effects, or shared affective vulnerability. A proposed pruning-continuum model suggests both disorders may share vulnerability in microglia-mediated synaptic pruning, with ALS amplified by autophagy and protein-quality-control failure and MDD by RNA-processing, stress, and immune dysregulation. We performed an exploratory secondary transcriptome-wide association study (TWAS)/pathway-integration analysis to test whether predefined nicotinamide mononucleotide (NMN)-nominated pathways map onto this vulnerability.We integrated precomputed S-PrediXcan outputs for MDD and ALS across available brain-relevant tissues. Ten Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathways were predefined from a prior re-analysis of NMN-associated transcriptional programs in aged mouse metabolic tissues. Mouse-derived candidates were represented by human ortholog symbols before the human TWAS screen. The analysis tested nominated pathways rather than the 35-gene NMN-robust list as a standalone set. Cross-tissue screening used Stouffer Z aggregation, tissue-level Wilcoxon testing, competitive permutation testing, percentile bootstrap intervals, pairwise disease statistics, Levene variance tests, concordance measures, and leave-one-out sensitivity analysis. No analysis was treated as confirmatory or evidence of causal mediation.MDD showed the strongest Stouffer-based exploratory signal in the synaptic vesicle cycle pathway, with a meta-across-tissue Stouffer Z of 3.41 and a wide bootstrap 95% confidence interval of -0.46 to 7.40. This signal did not survive competitive permutation testing (p = 0.1222) or Wilcoxon testing (p = 0.1926). The strongest tissue-level result occurred in the amygdala (Z = 4.057; nominal Wilcoxon p = 0.0093), although tissue-level permutation testing was not performed in the multi-gene-set run. ALS showed no significant meta-across-tissue enrichment among the 10 nominated pathways but displayed candidate gene-level signals in autophagy, endosomal, and vesicle-related genes, including TBK1 and C9orf72. Exploratory Levene tests indicated variance heterogeneity in the regulation of the actin cytoskeleton, endocytosis, and neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction; the actin cytoskeleton and endocytosis remained significant in pooled global false discovery rate (FDR) analysis. Fourteen genes were influential in at least two focus pathways, including EGF, KNG1, FGF8, RAC1, PAK1, PAK2, RAF1, MAPK1, and FGFR1.These findings are hypothesis-generating. MDD and ALS may stress overlapping cellular logistics processes while engaging largely different genes. MDD showed the strongest exploratory pathway-level signal in synaptic vesicle biology, whereas ALS showed candidate gene-level coherence in autophagy and endosomal processes without significant meta-pathway enrichment. NMN/NAD+ repletion is not established as a treatment for MDD, ALS, or their comorbidity. These findings generate hypotheses about NAD+-linked cellular stress pathways for future preclinical and clinical studies.Copyright © 2026, Cheung et al.
Proper function of the central nervous system (CNS) requires adequate blood supply to both gray and white matter, yet the mechanisms governing the region-specific angiogenesis remain poorly understood. Through analyzing glial cell profiles combined with genetic ablation approaches, we uncover distinct pro-angiogenic programs in astrocytic and oligodendroglial lineages that differentially regulate gray and white matter vascularization. Astrocyte depletion selectively disrupted gray matter angiogenesis, whereas oligodendrocyte lineage loss caused white matter hypovascularization. Gray matter astrocytes are selectively enriched for the hypoxia-inducible factor HIF1α and promote vascular growth via VEGF-dependent signaling, while the oligodendrocyte-enriched chromatin-remodeler CHD8 directly activated pro-angiogenic genes, including Tgfa and Sema5a, to promote white matter vascularization. Conditional Chd8 deletion recapitulated white matter vascular defects and visual dysfunction without neuronal loss. These findings define lineage-specific mechanisms of CNS angiogenesis and establish astrocytes and oligodendrocytes as distinct drivers of region-specific vascular development, providing a conceptual framework for targeted therapies in neurovascular and neurodevelopmental disorders.
Acetaminophen (APAP)-induced acute liver injury (AILI) is characterized by extensive cell death and sterile inflammation, with substantial accumulation of myeloid cells in necrotic areas. Macrophages are critical elements in acute hepatic inflammation and resolution. Piezo1 is a mechanically activated ion channel that modulates innate immune responses and senses microenvironmental cues.The functions of myeloid Piezo1 in AILI remain elusive. This study aimed to determine whether myeloid Piezo1 regulates inflammation resolution and macrophage-mediated clearance during AILI.To generate the AILI mouse model, APAP was administered intraperitoneally to Piezo1fl/fl and Piezo1ΔLysM mice, and samples were collected at 6, 24, and 48 h after treatment. Bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) were stimulated with APAP-treated normal mouse liver cell line (AML12) supernatant to mimic sterile inflammatory response. Liver histology, immunostaining, gene expression analysis, flow cytometry, intracellular Ca2+ measurements, and phagocytosis/efferocytosis assays were performed.Piezo1 exerted protective effects against hepatotoxin-induced liver necrosis and promoted liver recovery after APAP overdose. In vitro assays revealed that Piezo1 alleviated the inflammatory response in bone marrow-derived macrophages. Mechanistically, myeloid Piezo1 manifested a more reparative phenotype and enhanced phagocytic activity by upregulating MerTK expression. Specifically, Piezo1 acted through Ca2+ influx to regulate the expression of MerTK at the target binding stage. Inhibition of MerTK induced more pro-inflammatory mediators and reduced phagocytic ability, phenocopying the Piezo1 deficiency. Separately, Piezo1 modulated cytoskeletal rearrangement via the FAK/Rac1 axis during target internalization. Pharmacological activation of Piezo1 promoted pro-resolution marker expression and enhanced efferocytosis/phagocytic clearance in vitro.This study identified myeloid Piezo1 as an important regulator of macrophage-mediated inflammation resolution and dying-cell clearance during AILI, providing a basis for future exploration of Piezo1-related pathways in macrophage-mediated liver recovery.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This study aimed to use quantitative phosphoproteomics to explore phosphorylation characteristics in Klebsiella pneumoniae (Kpn)-induced liver abscess (KPLA) formation and liver injury. The Kpn strain LA-Kpn006 was phenotypically and genotypically characterized. A murine model of KPLA was established via intragastric inoculation. Phosphoproteomics and bioinformatic analyses were conducted to identify and quantify phosphosites and phosphoproteins. LA-Kpn006 displayed a hypermucoviscous phenotype, serotype K1, ST23 genotype, and harbored six major virulence genes. Inoculation induced liver colonization and typical histopathological abscess lesions. We quantified 3017 phosphoproteins covering 12,798 phosphosites (dominated by serine phosphorylation); 1723 proteins were upregulated and 425 downregulated. Bioinformatic analyses revealed remodeling in metabolism, stress response, signal transduction, and cytoskeleton organization. Upregulated proteins converged on fatty acid elongation, inositol phosphate metabolism, and the tricarboxylic acid cycle; downregulated proteins were enriched in PI3K-Akt, IL-17 signaling, and T-cell differentiation. Protein-protein interaction network analysis identified 10 key proteins (Src, Rac1, Actb, Hsp90aa1, Hsp90ab1, Egfr, Rps6, Pik3CA, Itgb1, and Fyn) that mediate inflammatory signaling, cytoskeleton remodeling, and immune infiltration. Dysregulated phosphorylation networks drive pathological metabolic adaptation, suppressed immune homeostasis, and cytoskeletal disorganization, collectively facilitating KPLA progression. The identified hub proteins and pathways represent high-value mechanistic targets and candidate therapeutic vulnerabilities for KPLA.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42510934 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42546515 is a review article
To determine whether serum semaphorin 3 A (Sema3A) and interleukin 6 (IL-6) play a role in the common etiopathogenesis of nAMD and nAMD-associated systemic diseases by evaluating these mediators levels.This prospective case-control study included 74 patients divided into nAMD (n = 33) and a control group (n = 41). Serum Sema3A and IL-6 levels were analyzed using the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.The nAMD group had a statistically higher IL-6 level [5,9 (1-16,9) pg/mL], compared to the control group [1,5 (0,38 - 2,96) pg/mL] (p < 0.001). On the other hand, the Sema3A level of the nAMD group was lower at [26,3 (11,5-100) ng/mL] compared to the control group at [44,7 (16,8-100) ng/mL] (p < 0.001). The IL-6 level in the hypertension (+) group [2,5 (0,5-16,9) pg/ml] was significantly higher than that in the hypertension (-) group [1,7 (0,4-15,3) pg/ml] (p < 0.001). No significant difference was found between the hypertension (+) and hypertension (-) groups in terms of SEMA3A level. There was a negative correlation between serum SEMA3A and serum IL-6 levels of the whole participants (p < 0.001, r=-0.471).Decreased levels of the anti-inflammatory and anti-angiogenic mediator Sema3A and increased levels of inflammatory mediator IL-6 detected in nAMD suggest that these molecules may play a role in systemic manifestations of this syndrome, such as inflammation, cardiovascular diseases, atrial fibrillation, and Alzheimer's disease.Not applicable.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42438044 is a review article
Chronic sleep disruption and cognitive deficits are debilitating long-term consequences of traumatic brain injury (TBI), yet the endogenous mechanisms that drive network-level recovery remain poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate that during the chronic phase post-injury, network oscillations critical for memory, including slow oscillations, delta waves, and sleep spindles, undergo precise adaptive tuning that sustains sleep-dependent memory consolidation. This functional circuit resilience requires Semaphorin-3A (Sema3a); loss of Sema3a function prevents the protective reorganization of non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep architecture, impairs sleep-dependent memory consolidation, and exacerbates cortical lesion size. Together, these findings identify Sema3a as an innate protective mechanism that preserves sleep architecture and cognitive function following TBI.
6-O sulfotransferase (HS6ST) enzymes modify heparan sulphate proteoglycans (HSPGs) to promote growth factor binding to extracellular matrix or receptors. HS6ST1 variants are reported in individuals with GnRH deficiency (GD), which is caused by the defective development of gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) neurons. However, it is unknown whether and how HS6ST family members cooperate in GnRH neuron development. Here, we show that Hs6st1 and Hs6st2 are co-expressed in the mouse nasal neurogenic epithelia, where GnRH neurons and their migratory substrate, the terminal nerve, originate. The combined but not individual disruption of Hs6st1 and Hs6st2 disrupted vomeronasal organ formation with incomplete penetrance, and impaired brain entry of GnRH neurons, similar to observations in mice with loss of the morphogen FGF8 or the axon guidance cue SEMA3A, respectively. In agreement with a role for HS6ST-modified HSPG in regulating SEMA3A signalling, SEMA3A binding to nasal tissues was impaired in the absence of HS6ST1 and HS6ST2. Our results establish a mechanistic role for HS6ST1 in GD and suggest HS6ST2 as an additional susceptibility locus for GD.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Semaphorin 3A (Sema3A), a known axon chemorepulsive protein during development, is localised in perineuronal nets (PNNs) in the adult brain. PNNs are condensed aggregates of extracellular matrix molecules surrounding specific types of neurons, which regulate neuroplasticity and memory. However, the role of PNN-associated Sema3A in these processes remains unclear. To address this topic, we investigated the contribution of Sema3A to cerebellum-dependent learning and memory in adult mice using the eyeblink conditioning (EBC) paradigm. We interfered with Sema3A signalling by employing: (i) a molecular approach, in which secreted Sema3A receptors (neuropilin-1 bodies) were expressed in the anterior interposed nuclei (AIN) via viral vector injection; and (ii) a genetic approach, using mutant mice with impaired Sema3A signalling (K108N mice). Mice expressing neuropilin-1 bodies showed reduced EBC performance at the beginning of the memory retention phase. However, increased inflammation was found in the AIN of these mice, challenging the interpretation of these findings. K108N mice showed enhanced EBC performance at the beginning of the memory retention phase. No synaptic structural changes were detected in the AIN of K108N mice at the end of the EBC paradigm. Based on our findings in K108N mice, constitutively altered Sema3A signalling is associated with subtle improvement in cerebellar memory.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42346074 is a review article
To investigate the effect of Wenyang Huazhuo Tongluo Formula (WHT) for promoting angiogenesis in systemic sclerosis (SSc) dermal microvascular endothelial cells and its possible mechanism.Wistar rats were gavaged with 15, 30, or 60 g/kg WHT and normal saline for 7 consecutive days to prepare low-, medium-, or high-concentration WHT-medicated sera and blank serum, respectively. Human dermal microvascular endothelial cells (HDMECs) in routine culture were treated with the sera from SSc patients to establish an SSc cell model. The cells were treated with the blank serum, low-, medium-, or high-concentration WHT-medicated sera, or blank serum combined with EGCG (a Sema3A inhibitor). The changes in cell proliferation, migration and angiogenesis were assessed using CCK-8 assay, wound-healing assay and Matrigel tube formation assay, and the mRNA and protein expressions of Sema3A, Nrp1, VEGFA, CD31 and α-SMA were analyzed using qRT-PCR and Western blotting.HDMECs treated with the serum from SSc patients exhibited significantly reduced cell proliferation and migration rates, increased α-SMA, Sema3A and VEGFA protein and mRNA expression levels, decreased CD31 and Nrp1 protein and mRNA expression levels, and suppressed angiogenesis. In SSc serum-induced cells, treatments with low-, medium-, or high-concentration WHT-medicated sera or EGCG all significantly improved cell survival and migration rates, reduced α-SMA, Sema3A and VEGFA protein and mRNA expression levels, enhanced CD31 and Nrp1 protein and mRNA expressions, and promoted angiogenesis of the cells.WHT promotes angiogenesis of SSc sera-induced HDMECs by modulating the Sema3A/Nrp1 signaling pathway.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) persists as the third most prevalent cause of cancer-associated mortality worldwide, largely due to late diagnosis, limited treatment efficacy, and poor response to immunotherapy. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain incompletely characterized. This study identified Semaphorin 6D (SEMA6D) as a potential tumor suppressor that was markedly underexpressed in CRC and associated with poor prognosis. Promoter hypermethylation emerges as the primary mechanism underlying its transcriptional silencing, with notably low expression observed in CIMP-H, MSI-H, CMS4 and CMS1 subtypes. Functional experiments demonstrated that SEMA6D overexpression significantly attenuated cellular proliferation, epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), and migratory capacity in vitro, while concurrently suppressing tumor growth and metastatic spread in vivo. Conversely, SEMA6D depletion induced pro-tumorigenic phenotypes. Moreover, SEMA6D enhanced anti-tumor immunity by enhancing the infiltration of CD4+ and CD8+ T lymphocytes into the tumor microenvironment (TME). Importantly, treatment with hypomethylating agents successfully restored SEMA6D expression and potentiated immunotherapy efficacy. Mechanistically, Plexin A4 was identified as the key receptor mediating SEMA6D signaling in CRC. Plexin A4 facilitates the interaction between SEMA6D and IRF9, promoting IRF9 activation and subsequent induction of the type I interferon signaling pathway. This cascade enhances T cell-infiltration, remodels the immunosuppressive TME, and ultimately suppresses tumor progression. Collectively, our findings establish SEMA6D as a crucial tumor suppressor epigenetically silenced in CRC. SEMA6D represents a valuable indicator for molecular classification, prognostic evaluation, and clinical decision-making in CRC. The Plexin A4/SEMA6D/IRF9 axis represents a promising therapeutic target, while the demonstrated efficacy of demethylating agents provides a strong rationale for incorporating epigenetic therapies into CRC treatment strategies, offering significant translational implications for clinical practice.© 2026. The Author(s).
Environmental temperature significantly influences immune responses. Cold exposure suppresses host defense against infections and exacerbates autoimmune and allergic conditions. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying temperature-dependent immune regulation remain unclear. In this study, we evaluated the cold-activated sympathetic modulation of immune responses. We presented that semaphorin 6D (Sema6D), an axon guidance molecule, is required for proper sympathetic nerve distribution. While both wild-type and Sema6d-/- mice developed experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) similarly at room temperature (22 °C), disease progression was attenuated in Sema6d-/- mice specifically under cold exposure (10 °C). Additionally, endothelial cell-specific Sema6d-/- (Sema6dΔVEcad) mice exhibited cold-specific attenuation of EAE development. Notably, Sema6dΔVEcad mice showed increased perivascular sympathetic innervation in lymph nodes, which resulted in enhanced norepinephrine-induced tissue hypoxia and cellular stress responses, leading to attenuated T-cell responses under cold exposure. These immunosuppressive effects were restored by pharmacological ablation of the sympathetic nerves, showing that the proper sympathetic nerve distribution in lymphoid organs is critical for immune competence under cold exposure. Collectively, these findings not only indicate that Sema6D is a key axon guidance molecule for sympathetic nerve distribution but also show a potential mechanism underlying the environmentally modulated progression of autoimmune diseases.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
The APOE-ε4 allele is the strongest genetic risk factor for late-onset Alzheimer's disease. However, APOE-ε4 is not deterministic, highlighting the need to identify additional genetic and environmental factors. APOE-ε4 has been linked to accelerated cognitive decline, so we sought to investigate genetic factors that modify APOE-ε4-associated cognitive decline. We conduct cross-ancestry APOE-ε4-stratified and interaction GWAS using harmonized cognitive data from 32,778 participants, including 29,354 non-Hispanic White and 3,424 non-Hispanic Black individuals. Our primary outcome is late-life cognition, measured using harmonized composite scores for memory, executive function, and language, modeled as continuous traits reflecting both normative cognitive aging and disease-related decline. We identify two genome-wide significant loci in APOE-ε4 carriers, reaching genome-wide significance for executive function. These loci also demonstrate nominal associations across the other domains, suggesting broad effects on cognition. In non-carriers, we identify a genome-wide significant association at ITGB8 restricted to executive function, and another locus associated with language. We further link these loci to SEMA6D, GRIN3A, and ITGB8 through expression and methylation databases. Post-GWAS analyses implicate additional genes including SLCO1A2, and DNAH11. Genetic correlation analyses reveal differences by APOE-ε4 status for immune-related traits, suggesting immune-related predispositions may exacerbate cognitive risk in APOE-ε4 carriers.© 2026. The Author(s).
Tobacco smoking is a major risk factor for cardiovascular and lung diseases. A better understanding of its neurobiological underpinnings will benefit the prevention of smoking-related illnesses and mortality. Previous studies link smoking to increased iron concentration in the striatum, a central component of the brain's reward system, and to reduced cognitive performance. This study aimed to investigate whether smoking and striatal iron share common biological pathways and to assess potential causal relationships between the two.Using data from the UK Biobank, we investigated phenotypic and genetic correlations, and causal relationships between smoking initiation and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-derived markers of iron content (T2* and quantitative susceptibility mapping) in the bilateral putamen, caudate and accumbens nuclei.We found positive correlations between smoking and striatal iron (β ∈ [0.03, 0.40], P < 0.001), particularly when comparing current smokers with never smokers. Striatal iron was positively associated with pack-years (β ∈ [0.11, 0.13], P < 0.001) and inversely related to years since smoking cessation (β ∈ [0.06, 0.10], P < 0.001), suggesting iron levels may decrease after quitting. Genetic analysis confirmed phenotypic correlations, with shared genetic associations (P < 2.73 × 10-6, or 0.01 for candidate genes) in genes related to dopaminergic, glutamatergic and synaptic systems (DRD2, PPP1R1B, NCAM1, DLX5, GGACT, NAT16, PLEKHM1). Causality analysis revealed a relationship from smoking to striatal iron via genes involved in synaptogenesis and plasticity (BAI3, SEMA6D, TENM2), with evidence of reverse causality from iron to smoking through inflammatory and immune system-related genes (ING5, NLRP7).There appear to be links between smoking and striatal iron with complex causal mechanisms involving synaptic transmission and inflammatory circuits. Striatal iron content could serve as a biomarker for smoking-related neurobiological changes and a potential target for interventions aimed at mitigating cognitive decline related to striatal iron accumulation.© 2026 The Author(s). Addiction published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Society for the Study of Addiction.
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a degenerative joint disease that affects over 500 million individuals globally, characterized by the degradation of cartilage, subchondral bone sclerosis, and synovitis. A key factor in the progression of OA is synovial inflammation, which is driven by macrophage polarization and inflammasome activation. This inflammation exacerbates cartilage degradation, creating a vicious cycle that accelerates disease progression. Targeting macrophage activity presents a promising therapeutic strategy to alleviate the symptoms and progression of OA.To investigate the role of SEMA6D in macrophage polarization and its potential therapeutic implications for OA, we conducted transcriptomic analysis to explore its regulatory functions. In vitro experiments were performed to assess the effects of SEMA6D overexpression on the expression of ASC and NLRP3, as well as on macrophage (RAW264.7) polarization toward the pro-inflammatory M1 phenotype. In vivo studies were conducted using an OA rat model to evaluate the influence of SEMA6D overexpression on synovial macrophage polarization and the levels of inflammatory mediators, including IL-1β and IL-6.Our transcriptomic analysis indicated that SEMA6D plays a regulatory role in macrophage polarization. Overexpression of SEMA6D resulted in the downregulation of ASC and NLRP3, effectively inhibiting the polarization of macrophages toward the M1 phenotype and downregulate the expression levels of iNOS and IL-6 by more than twofold. In the DMM rat model, SEMA6D overexpression significantly reduced the polarization of synovial macrophages to the M1 phenotype, leading to lower levels of inflammatory mediators such as IL-1β and IL-6, and mitigating cartilage degeneration.SEMA6D exerts a protective effect against OA by attenuating synovial macrophage-mediated inflammatory responses through the inhibition of NLRP3 inflammasome activation and endoplasmic reticulum stress.© 2025 Zhang et al.
Background: Spinal cord injury (SCI) represents one of the recognized difficulties, and its pathological mechanisms remain unclear. Aberrant regulation of the RNA-binding protein (RBP) and selective splicing are associated with SCI. Nonetheless, the mechanisms of RBP regulation and abnormal selective splicing events associated with SCI are unexplored. Methods: The Spinal Cord Injury Group (GSE185301) dataset and human peripheral blood RNA sequencing (GSE151371) dataset were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. High-throughput sequencing data from sham-operated (Ctrl) and spinal cord injury (SCI) mice were subjected to gene expression profiling and genome-wide identification of differential selective splicing events. SCI-associated selective splicing events, differentially expressed cells, and differentially expressed RBPs underwent cellular quantification, principal component analysis, and enrichment analysis. Coexpression analysis was conducted to elucidate the regulatory associations among SCI-related variable splicing events, differentially expressed cells, and differentially expressed RBPs. Results: A total of 1643 alternative splicing events (ASEs), 3128 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), 166 differentially expressed RNA-binding proteins (RBPs), and 6 differential cellular taxa were identified, including mesangial cells, microglia, neuronal cells, oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs), oligodendrocytes, and vascular cells. GO and KEGG analyses revealed that differential ASEs, RBPs, and cells were involved in regulating SCI through various biological pathways. Next, we chose to regulate alternative splicing (RAS), which is mainly enriched in the neurodevelopmental and projection neuron developmental pathways, and screened 10 SCI-associated regulated alternative splicing genes (RASGs), including App, Cdc42, Chl1, Kif2A, Nptn, Rtn4, Sema4d, Sema6d, Sema6a, and Rab13. Second, the correlation analysis between differential cellular taxa and differentially expressed RBP events identified a total of 12 RBPs significantly associated with cellular taxa and 4 RBPs associated with SCI. The construction of a cellular-RBP-RAS regulatory network revealed the regulatory mechanisms associated with RBPs post-SCI. These RBPs, including Nkrf, Marcks, NDRG4, and Ryr2, were validated in a human peripheral blood RNA sequencing dataset 3 days after SCI and may serve as molecular targets for SCI repair. Conclusion: High-throughput data analysis identified differential RAS, RBPs, and immune cells during SCI. A regulatory network of differential RBPs with RAS and cells was established. Four RBPs associated with SCI were identified: Nkrf, Marcks, NDRG4, and Ryr2. These key RBPs may serve as potential targets for the treatment of patients with SCI.© 2025 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
To analyse how Semaphorin 6D (SEMA6D) expression and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/protein kinase B/mammalian target of rapamycin (PI3K/AKT/mTOR) signal pathways are activated and how they influence gastric cancer proliferation, migration, and invasion.SEMA6D expression was knocked down in human gastric cancer cells using RNA interference technology. In vitro assays were used to analyse how SEMA6D knockdown affects clone formation, migration, and invasion. ERK and PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling pathway related proteins were detected by immunoblotting.In the si-NC group, Sema6D protein levels were higher than those in the si-1 and si-2 groups after knockdown of Sema6D, while in the si-1 group, Sema6D protein levels were higher than those in the si-2 group (P<0.05). P-PI3K, ERK/p-ERK, AKT/p-AKT, and mTOR/p-mTOR levels in the si-NC group were significantly higher than those in the si-1 and si-2 groups after knockdown of Sema6D (P < 0.05). It was found that scratch healing rate of SGC-7901 cells in si-NC group was higher than that in si-1 and si-2 groups, and the difference was statistically significant (P < 0.05).SEMA6D expression level can affect the biological behavior of gastric cancer cells.© 2024 Zhou H et al.
Cellular cross-talk, mediated by membrane receptors and their ligands, is crucial for brain homeostasis and can contribute to neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). To find cross-talk dysregulations involved in AD, we reconstructed cross-talk networks from single-nucleus transcriptional profiles of 67 clinically and neuropathologically well-characterized controls and AD brain donors from the Knight Alzheimer Disease Research Center and the Dominantly Inherited Alzheimer Network cohorts. We predicted a role for TREM2 and additional AD risk genes mediating neuron-microglia cross-talk in AD. We identified a gene network mediating neuron-microglia cross-talk through TREM2 and neuronal SEMA6D, which we predicted is disrupted in late AD stages. Using spatial transcriptomics on the human brain, we observed that the SEMA6D-TREM2 cross-talk gene network is activated near Aβ plaques and SEMA6D-expressing cells. Using tissue immunostaining of human brains, we found that SEMA6D colocalizes with Aβ plaques and TREM2-activated microglia. In addition, we found that plaque-proximal SEMA6D abundance decreased with the disease stage, which correlated with a reduction in microglial activation near plaques. These findings suggest that the loss of SEMA6D signaling impairs microglial activation and Αβ clearance. To validate this hypothesis, we leveraged TREM2 knockout human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived microglia and observed that SEMA6D induces microglial activation and Aβ plaque phagocytosis in a TREM2-dependent manner. In summary, we demonstrate that characterizing cellular cross-talk networks can yield insights into AD biology, provide additional context to understand AD genetic risk, and find previously unknown therapeutic targets and pathways.
Background/Objectives: Finding single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and candidate genes that influence the expression of key traits is essential for genomic selection and helps improve the efficiency of poultry production. Here, we aimed to conduct a genome-wide association study (GWAS) for egg production traits in an F2 resource population of chickens (Gallus gallus). Methods: The examined F2 population was produced by crossing two divergently selected breeds with contrasting phenotypes for egg performance traits, namely Russian White (of higher egg production) and Cornish White (of lower egg production). Sampled birds (n = 142) were genotyped using the Illumina Chicken 60K SNP iSelect BeadChip. Results: In the course of the GWAS analysis, we were able to clarify significant associations with phenotypic traits of interest and economic value by using 47,432 SNPs after the genotype dataset was filtered. At the threshold p < 1.06 × 10-6, we found 23 prioritized candidate genes (PCGs) associated with egg weight at the age of 42-52 weeks (FGF14, GCK), duration of egg laying (CNTN4), egg laying cycle (SAMD12) and egg laying interval (PHF5A, AKR1B1, CALD1, ATP7B, PIK3R4, PTK2, PRKCE, FAT1, PCM1, CC2D2A, BMS1, SEMA6D, CDH13, SLIT3, ATP10B, ISCU, LRRC75A, LETM2, ANKRD24). Moreover, two SNPs were co-localized within the FGF14 gene. Conclusions: Based on our GWAS findings, the revealed SNPs and candidate genes can be used as genetic markers for egg weight and other performance characteristics in chickens to attain genetic enhancement in production and for further genomic selection.
The tissue-localized renin-angiotensin system (tRAS) plays a pivotal role in the crosstalk between cardiovascular factors and osteoarthritis (OA). Semaphorin 6D (SEMA6D), a cardiovascular neuroeffector, may contribute to chondrocyte homeostasis; however, its cartilage-specific functions remain unclear. Chondrocytes with altered SEMA6D expression were established via gene transfection. RNA sequencing was performed to identify SEMA6D-related genes and pathways, with preliminary validation in human OA samples. Furthermore, biochemical methods were employed to investigate the role of the AGT/AGTR1a/IL-1β axis in mediating SEMA6D-associated extracellular matrix metabolism (ECM). An AAV5-based lentiviral vector was used to generate OA rat models overexpressing SEMA6D, followed by radiological and histological analyses. SEMA6D overexpression significantly enhanced ECM homeostasis, marked by increased Aggrecan, COL2A1 and decreased COL10A1, MMP13, and Runx2 expression. These SEMA6D-induced genes were enriched in the tRAS pathway, with AGT, AGTR1a, and IL-1β identified as critical targets. Furthermore, the AGT/AGTR1a/IL-1β axis activated ECM degradation in chondrocytes, while SEMA6D overexpression effectively suppressed this signaling. In the OA rat model, elevated SEMA6D expression significantly reduced cartilage degradation. SEMA6D confers chondroprotective effects in OA by modulating the tRAS pathway, likely through inhibition of the AGT/AGTR1a/IL-1β axis, thereby regulating ECM metabolism and chondrocyte hypertrophy. These findings enhance our understanding of cardiovascular influences on cartilage health and reveal tissue-specific regulatory mechanisms in OA.© 2025 Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is a leading cause of blindness. While anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) therapy is effective, its utility is limited by variable patient response and the need for frequent injections. Therefore, identifying new therapeutic targets for DR is imperative. Emerging evidence indicates that astrocytes contribute to endothelial dysfunction in DR, suggesting that targeting astrocyte-endothelial cell crosstalk represents a promising therapeutic strategy.To evaluate the therapeutic potential of Salvianolic acid A (Sal A) for DR, elucidate the molecular mechanisms by which it modulates astrocyte-endothelial cell interactions, and develop a liposome-based nanodelivery system to enhance its efficacy.The protective effects and mechanisms of Sal A were systematically investigated using a streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic mouse model, complemented by a suite of in vitro and molecular approaches including co-culture models, transcriptomic analysis, and target validation assays.Retinal vascular structure and barrier function were assessed in vivo via immunofluorescence staining and Evans Blue leakage assays. Endothelial cell behaviors were examined in vitro using wound healing, Transwell migration, tube formation, and spheroid sprouting assays. Transcriptomic profiling was performed by RNA sequencing (RNA-seq). The direct target of Sal A was identified and validated using MS-based drug-affinity responsive target stability (DARTS) screening, cellular thermal shift assay (CETSA), and microscale thermophoresis (MST). Expression of key signaling molecules was measured by western blotting, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), and quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR). Liposome@Sal A was prepared and characterized for its physicochemical properties (dynamic light scattering, transmission electron microscopy), stability, and therapeutic efficacy in vitro and in vivo.Sal A treatment ameliorated retinal vascular abnormalities in diabetic mice, evidenced by increased VE-cadherin and NG2 expression, decreased α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA) expression, and reduced acellular capillary formation, collectively restoring vascular integrity. Mechanistically, astrocyte-derived soluble Semaphorin 4D (sSema4D) promoted endothelial hyperactivation via the PlexinB1/RhoA/ROCK/pMLC2 signaling cascade. Sal A directly bound to the Arg92 residue of membrane-bound Sema4D on astrocytes, significantly inhibiting sSema4D shedding and its subsequent deleterious effects on endothelial cells. Furthermore, Liposome@Sal A enhanced retinal drug delivery and demonstrated superior therapeutic efficacy compared to free Sal A in diabetic mice.Sal A preserves retinal vascular structure and function in DR by binding to astrocytic Sema4D at Arg92, thereby inhibiting sSema4D shedding and downstream PlexinB1/RhoA/ROCK/pMLC2 signaling, which modulates astrocyte-endothelial cell crosstalk. Liposomal encapsulation significantly potentiates the therapeutic efficacy of Sal A, positioning it as a promising drug candidate for DR treatment.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42402554 is a review article
CD100/SEMA4D functions as a critical co-stimulatory molecule in T cell responses, existing in both membrane-bound (mCD100) and soluble (sCD100) forms. Previous studies have shown that CD100 enhances CD8+ T cell responses indirectly by promoting the maturation and activation of antigen-presenting cells, thereby facilitating viral clearance. However, whether mCD100, highly expressed on resting T cells, can also directly regulate CD8+ T cell function upon ligand engagement remains unclear.We examined the impact of CD100 deficiency on the functional phenotype and differentiation of HBcAg-specific CD8+ T cells using separate and co-culture systems in vitro. Furthermore, through adoptive transfer of CD100 knockout HBV Cor93 TCR-transgenic (CD100KO C93-TCRtg) CD8+ T cells, we investigated the early impact of mCD100 deficiency on the development of HBcAg-specific CD8+ T cell responses during HBV infection.The absence of mCD100 expression significantly decrease HBcAg-specific CD8+ T-cell proliferation, activation, effector cytokine production, and expression of Granzyme B and Eomes upon antigen stimulation in vitro. In the acute self-resolving models, the early proliferation of transferred CD100KO C93-TCRtg CD8+ T cells were impaired compared to their WT counterparts following HBV challenge. Transcriptomic data revealed that significant downregulation of gene sets associated with the PI3K-Akt, mTOR, NF-κB, and JAK-STAT signaling pathways in CD100KO CD8+ T cells.Membrane CD100 expressed on resting HBcAg-specific CD8+ T cells may function as a co-stimulatory molecule by providing a direct stimulatory signal for the early proliferation and effector differentiation of T cells. The observed effects of mCD100 are associated with the PI3K-Akt-mTOR, JAK-STAT and NF-κB signaling pathways.Copyright © 2026 Zhao, Chen, Chen, Wang, Yang, Sutter, Lu, Chen, Zheng, Yang, Wang and Liu.
Neutrophil dysregulation is one of the main features of periodontitis (PD). This study delineated neutrophil heterogeneity and predicted potential communication of mast cells within the microenvironment of PD using computational single-cell transcriptomics.We analyzed a public scRNA-seq dataset (GSE171213) from gingival tissues of healthy controls, PD patients, and post-treatment patients. Data processing, clustering, and annotation were performed using Seurat and Harmony packages. Cell-cell communication was computationally inferred using CellChat and NicheNet packages, and transcriptional regulatory programs were predicted via SCENIC. HMC-1.2 mast cells were treated with TGFB1 and assessed for proliferation, migration, the level of VEGFA, IL-6, and TNF-α.Ten cell types in PD were identified. Two distinct transcriptional states of neutrophils were identified based on gene expression profiles. Cell-cell communication analysis predicted that Subtype 2, which was enriched for inflammatory and effector genes, exhibited stronger putative interactions with mast cells via ligand-receptor pairs such as IL6-(IL6R+IL6ST) and SEMA4D- PLXNB2. NicheNet-based analysis further inferred that neutrophil-derived TGFB1, OSM, and IL1B were associated with mast-cell target gene programs related to proliferation, migration, angiogenesis, and inflammatory responses. Finally, in vitro cell experiments indicated that TGFB1 inhibited proliferation but promoted migration and the expression of VEGFA, IL-6, and TNF-α. However, all effects were reversed by SB431542, confirming TGFBR1 dependence.This study delineated neutrophil transcriptional heterogeneity in PD and identified neutrophil- mast cell communication axes as a contributor to the inflammatory microenvironment in PD.Through computational analysis of single-cell transcriptomics, this study described two neutrophil states and their predicted interaction network with mast cells in PD, providing testable hypotheses for future mechanistic and translational studies.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
High myopia (HM) is a complex condition influenced by both genetic and environmental factors, yet its early prediction and clinical intervention remain challenging due to heterogeneous progression patterns. To support early identification of individuals at risk for HM, we developed MIRAGE, a deep learning framework combining exome-wide genotypes with fundus images for personalized prediction. The model combines DeepExGRS for genetic risk modeling and a convolutional network for imaging, fused via a gating attention mechanism. Applied to a cohort of 1991 individuals, MIRAGE achieved high predictive accuracy (AUC = 0.963), outperforming unimodal models. Interpretation using Integrated Gradients and Shapley values identified key genes (e.g. GJD2, FGF1) and image regions (optic disc, macula) contributing to predictions. Further, deep learning-based genetic risk models (DeepcvGRS and DeeprvGRS) outperformed traditional polygenic risk scores, capturing nonlinear interactions and improving HM prediction. Interaction analysis using Shapley interaction scores revealed 314 significant gene-gene interactions, including biologically relevant pairs such as PRSS56-GLI3 and SEMA4D-FRY. Overall, MIRAGE offers a scalable, interpretable, and accurate approach for HM risk stratification, paving the way to early intervention guided by both genetics and retinal imaging.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is an aggressive malignancy characterized by early metastasis and poor prognosis. Here, we demonstrate that aldehyde dehydrogenase 1A3 (ALDH1A3) regulates PDAC lung tropism through an epigenetic-axon guidance axis. RNA sequencing analysis of clinical samples revealed that PDAC lung recurrence is associated with basal-like features and involves retinol metabolism and axon guidance pathways. Mechanistically, ALDH1A3 promotes acetyl-CoA production, enhancing histone H3 (H3K9/K14) acetylation at promoters of axon guidance receptors PLXNB1 and NRP1 to activate their transcription. Consequently, PDAC cells become sensitized to ligands SEMA4D and SEMA3A, which are abundantly expressed in lung epithelial cells. The resulting SEMA4D-PLXNB1 and SEMA3A-NRP1 signaling axes drive early metastatic colonization in the lung. Our findings reveal a regulatory circuit underlying PDAC organotropism and suggest potential therapeutic strategies against metastasis.© 2026 The Author(s).
Cirrhosis is the end-stage of chronic liver disease characterized by progressive hepatic fibrosis and persistent immune dysregulation, yet the mechanisms by which immune cell crosstalk drives disease progression remain poorly understood.In the present study, we integrated bulk and single-cell transcriptomic analyses with immunofluorescence validation to investigate the role of the CCL20-CCR6 axis in MAIT cells-macrophages interactions during cirrhosis progression.We identified eight core cirrhosis-associated immune genes (OGN, IL32, CCL19, PDGFA, CCL20, NTS, SEMA3C, HSPA2), among which CCL20 was selectively enriched in mucosal-associated invariant T cells (MAIT) and closely associated with their activation- and exhaustion-related transcriptional profiles. Cell-cell communication analysis revealed that the CCL20-CCR6 axis may specifically mediate bidirectional interactions between MAIT cells and M2 macrophages, forming a disease-specific positive feedback loop within the cirrhotic microenvironment. Immunofluorescence staining further confirmed the enrichment and colocalization of CCL20, MAIT cells, and M2 macrophages in cirrhotic tissues.Collectively, these findings support the CCL20-CCR6 axis as a key regulator of hepatic immune dysregulation and fibrotic progression in liver cirrhosis, highlighting its potential as both a biomarker of disease activity and a therapeutic target for cirrhosis intervention.Copyright © 2026 Chen, Li, Zhang, Lou, Zhang, Lou, Zhang, Xu, Jiang and Lv.
Total RNA was isolated from sections of healthy testes and Leydig cell tumors of mixed-breed dogs using TMA Master II device. The RNA-seq libraries were sequenced on the Illumina platform. Following differential expression analysis, Gene Ontology (GO), Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG), and Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) were applied with quality control obtained using FastQC and Trimmomatic. This analysis revealed 1500 transcripts, including 982 upregulated and 168 downregulated genes. The results demonstrated that a significant proportion of these differentially expressed genes are directly involved in the control of sex steroid production (CYP11A1, STAR, and 3β-HSD3B1) or tube formation, angiogenesis, and extracellular matrix remodeling in interstitial cells (ESM1, FGG, and VEGFA). Moreover, we identified the upregulation of transcripts responsible for neurotransmitter or neuroendocrine signaling (SLC6A4, GRIN2C, GABRB3) and cholesterol metabolism and its regulation (GPX3, MSMO1, DHCR24). These genes were strongly associated with the phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3K)-Protein Kinase B (Akt) cascade and extracellular matrix interactions, features shared with various malignancies. Alterations in estrogen and relaxin signaling appear to be distinctive, understudied mechanisms specific to canine Leydig cell tumors. Concurrently, downregulated genes (e.g., DMRTC2, SEMA3C, ALOX12) were linked with cell differentiation, signaling and immunoregulatory pathway suppression involved in tumorigenesis. A complex transcriptomic profile of canine Leydig cell tumors was developed, revealing a conserved oncogenic core shared in some aspects with human malignancies alongside unique species-specific alterations. Findings seem to be useful for identifying novel diagnostic biomarkers and targeted therapies in veterinary oncology, establishing canine reproductive tissues as a valuable comparative biomedical model for research in human.
Semaphorin 3C (SEMA3C) is a secreted protein that is essential for cardiovascular and renal development; however, its role in the development and progression of chronic kidney disease (CKD) remains unclear.We performed immunostaining for SEMA3C in human and murine kidneys. Subsequently, tamoxifen-inducible proximal tubule (PT)-specific Sema3c functional knockout (FKO) mice (Ndrg1CreERT2/+; Sema3cflox/flox, PT-Sema3c FKO) were generated using the CRISPR-Cas9 technique. To evaluate the renoprotective effects of PT-Sema3c FKO, we employed two well-established models of CKD: the adenine-induced tubulointerstitial nephritis model and the high-fat diet (HFD)/streptozotocin-induced diabetic nephropathy (DN) model.Immunostaining of human and murine kidneys showed high SEMA3C expression in the PTs, particularly in human tubulointerstitial nephropathy. In adenine-induced tubulointerstitial nephritis, control (Ctrl) littermates (Ndrg1+/+; Sema3cflox/flox) showed increased Sema3c expression, whereas PT-Sema3c FKO mice exhibited markedly reduced Sema3c expression with attenuated fibrosis and inflammation. In contrast, in HFD/streptozotocin-induced DN model, renal Sema3c expression decreased in Ctrl mice following DN induction, and neither proteinuria nor fibrosis was ameliorated in PT-Sema3c FKO mice. In vitro, SEMA3C expression in PT cells was upregulated by tumor necrosis factor-α or transforming growth factor-β; however, it was downregulated under glucotoxic conditions. SEMA3C stimulation of kidney fibroblasts induced profibrotic marker expression and proliferation.PT-derived SEMA3C promotes inflammation and fibrosis in adenine-induced tubulointerstitial nephritis.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. on behalf of the American Society of Nephrology.
Astrocytes are increasingly implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia (SCZ), yet how astrocytic dysfunction contributes to disease-relevant neuronal abnormalities remains unclear. Here, we used mass spectrometry-based proteomics to profile lysates (proteome) and secreted proteins (secretome) from iPSC-derived astrocytes originating from 9 SCZ patients and 8 healthy controls. Compartment-specific analyses showed that lysates were enriched for mitochondrial and nuclear pathways, whereas astrocyte-conditioned media (ACM) were enriched for extracellular matrix (ECM) and vesicle-associated proteins. Differential expression analysis revealed minimal overlap between dysregulated proteins in lysates and ACM, suggesting modality-specific effects of SCZ-associated donor background. Interestingly, ECM proteins and key secreted cues involved in synaptic development, including MFGE8 and SEMA3C, were selectively reduced in SCZ ACM, whereas RNA-processing proteins were aberrantly increased. This is in line with previously reported microRNA enrichment in extracellular vesicles (EV) derived from SCZ patients. Gene set analyses further identified the alteration in secretion and nuclear processes as well as the potential involvement of autophagy-dependent release mechanism in SCZ astrocytes. Together, these findings suggest disrupted astrocytic protein homeostasis and extracellular signalling in SCZ iPSC-derived astrocytes, providing mechanistic insight into astrocyte-mediated contributions to synaptic and circuit deficits in the disorder.
Sema3c is specifically expressed in the cardiac outflow tract (OFT) of the developing mouse heart and has been implicated in OFT polarization and great artery formation. However, the regulatory basis underlying its spatially restricted expression remains unclear. To investigate the mechanisms underlying OFT-specific Sema3c expression, we utilized chromatin accessibility data from distinct segments of the developing heart and identified a differentially accessible region as an OFT-specific Sema3c enhancer candidate. Unlike previously characterized Sema3c enhancers, this region is located distal to the transcription start site. Reporter analysis using transgenic mouse embryos demonstrated that this region exhibits transcriptional activity from E8.5 onward and remains specifically active in the OFT myocardium throughout heart development. We further defined a minimal 603 bp enhancer whose activity depends on GATA binding sites. This enhancer provides insight into the mechanisms underlying spatially restricted Sema3c expression involved in OFT development.© 2026 The Author(s). Genes to Cells published by Molecular Biology Society of Japan and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Thyroid hormones (THs) are essential regulators of human brain development, and disrupted TH availability during pregnancy or early life is linked to adverse neurodevelopmental outcomes. Concerns that environmental chemicals interfere with TH signalling have increased the need for human-relevant in vitro systems to identify thyroid hormone system-disrupting chemicals (THSDCs) for risk assessment. Here, we compared two human-induced pluripotent stem cell (hiPSC)-derived brain organoid models for THSDC assessment: (i) human cortical organoids (COs) generated by unguided differentiation, offering higher architectural complexity but lower throughput; and (ii) neural stem cell-derived organoids (NSCOs), designed for scalability with reduced cellular diversity. Both models expressed key TH handling components, including the transporter SLC16A2 (MCT8) and the inactivating enzyme DIO3. Using LC-MS/MS, we show that exogenous T3 is depleted from culture media and metabolized to 3,3'-T2 and 3'-T1 in both models, alongside upregulation of T3-responsive genes (HR, KLF9, DIO3, SEMA3C). Pulse and chronic co-exposures to reference disruptors iopanoic acid (IA, deiodinase inhibitor) and silychristin (SC, MCT8 inhibitor) altered T3 metabolism and modulated T3-responsive transcriptional endpoints. In NSCOs, high-content imaging revealed treatment-associated changes in cell composition, with chronic T3 reducing the SOX2-positive progenitor pool and THSDCs blocking this effect. Together, these findings provide a framework for organoid qualification-linking TH handling, transcriptomic responsiveness, and scalable phenotypic readouts-as a necessary step toward model validation and implementation of brain organoids in THSDC risk assessment pipelines.
The aggressive nature and poor prognosis of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) are closely linked to its complex tumor microenvironment (TME). However, a detailed mapping of the TME's cellular landscape and its interactions with cancer cells at single-cell resolution is still lacking, limiting our understanding of the disease. This study aims to utilize single-nucleus RNA sequencing technology to construct a panoramic single-cell transcriptomic map of the PDAC TME. Furthermore, the expression characteristics of the key differential genes REG1A and REG1B in the early progression of PDAC and the regulation of the tumor microenvironment are validated through clinical samples.To dissect the complex TME of PDAC, we employed single-nucleus RNA sequencing. By performing an integrated analysis of freshly collected and publicly available human PDAC samples, we identified a critical regulatory network involving REG1 and other key factors that modulate tumor progression and metastasis. Our data further delineated the interplay among heterogeneous cancer cell states and distinct populations of cancer-associated fibroblasts and macrophages.Tumor regions showed enrichment of acinar cells and depletion of fibroblasts and endothelial cells, reflecting epithelial and stromal remodeling. Ductal and acinar cells exhibited strong transcriptional reprogramming, with upregulation of REG1A, REG1B and SEMA3C. The expression levels of REG1A and REG1B were quantified by real time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) in 48 paired PDAC tissue samples. The results indicated significant overexpression of both genes in tumor tissues. Compared with peritumoral tissues, REG1A and REG1B showed significant upregulation in early-stage (stage I) tumors, but not in advanced stages (stage III/IV), suggesting their potential role in promoting early PDAC tumorigenesis. Furthermore, elevated expression of these genes was confirmed to be significantly associated with unfavorable prognosis in patients.Our work constructs a detailed single-cell transcriptomic atlas of the PDAC microenvironment. It implicates REG1A and REG1B as promising candidates for both early diagnostic biomarkers and novel therapeutic intervention points.© AME Publishing Company.
High endothelial venules (HEVs) provide another portal for tumour metastasis. However, whether HEVs and other blood vessels exert different effects on tumour escape remains unknown. Here we show that tumour involvement in HEVs is an independent prognostic marker for patients with lymph node (LN)-positive female breast cancer. Tumour cells that spread via HEVs are less immunogenic and more capable of establishing distant metastases than those that spread through non-HEV blood vessels. Mechanistically, the expression of arachidonate 12-lipoxygenase (ALOX12) in HEVs is promoted by tumour-derived semaphorin 3 C (SEMA3C). Reciprocally, ALOX12-derived metabolite 12-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid (12-HETE) promotes ADAR1 p150-dsRNA phase separation in tumour cells by selectively binding to ADAR1 p150. Consequently, the immune recognition of dsRNA is reduced because of the increased adenosine-to-inosine (A-to-I) RNA editing in tumour cells. Collectively, our data indicate that a unique lymphatic anatomical structure mediates specific immune evasion of migrating tumour cells.© 2026. The Author(s).
Transposable elements (TEs), which are under tight epigenetic control, have been co-opted as cis-regulatory elements to regulate gene expression during development and cancer. Among them, long interspersed element 1 (LINE-1) retrotransposons are the most abundant and exhibit high activity in embryonic stem cells. However, the precise role of LINE-1 in breast cancer stem cells (BCSCs) remains poorly understood. Here, using RNA sequencing, an enhancer dual-luciferase reporter assay, and a nuclease-dead Cas9 (dCas9)-based CRISPR activation (CRISPRa) assay, we show that the LINE-1 retrotransposon L1Md_T within Sema3c (Sema3c_L1Md_T) is derepressed and functions as a cis-regulatory enhancer that drives SEMA3C expression to sustain mouse BCSC survival. In mouse BCSCs, Sema3c_L1Md_T results in the formation of more phase-separated nuclear condensates with the transcriptional coactivator BRD4 under conditions of increased chromatin accessibility. BRD4 puncta coincide with regions marked by histone H3 lysine 27 acetylation (H3K27ac), enhancing the transcription of SEMA3C. Aberrant SEMA3C expression contributes to mouse BCSC survival and self-renewal via its receptor NRP1 and the coreceptors PlexinA2/PlexinD1. Importantly, we also demonstrate that this regulatory mechanism is conserved in human breast cancer, where SEMA3C is highly expressed in human BCSCs. A human LINE-1 element (SEMA3C_L1ME4a) exhibits enhancer activity and colocalizes with BRD4 condensates in human BCSCs. These findings confirm that the LINE1-BRD4-SEMA3C regulatory axis is present in both mouse and human BCSCs, underscoring its translational relevance. Notably, pharmacological degradation of BRD4 using the proteolysis-targeting chimaera (PROTAC) MZ1 reduces SEMA3C levels and decreases BCSC viability both in vitro and in vivo. Our study reveals an oncogenic role for a LINE-1-derived enhancer in regulating SEMA3C transcription and sustaining BCSC properties, highlighting BRD4 as a therapeutic vulnerability in BCSC-driven breast cancer progression.© 2026. Science China Press.
The crucial role of metastasis-associated lung adenocarcinoma transcript 1 (MALAT1) in regulating aneurysm formation, inflammation, and neural dysfunction has gradually been recognized. This study aimed to evaluate the effects of MALAT1 modification on pathological changes, inflammation, vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) phenotype switching, and the underlying mechanism in intracranial aneurysms (IAs).MALAT1-overexpressing (oeMALAT1), MALAT1 short hairpin (shMALAT1), and semaphorin 3C (SEMA3C)-overexpressing (oeSEMA3C) lentiviruses were transfected alone or in combination into basilar artery VSMCs originating from IA rats. These lentiviruses were then stereotactically injected into IA rats.In vitro, the overexpression of MALAT1 inhibited cell proliferation while promoting cell apoptosis and invasion; the release of TNF-α, IL-1β, and IL-6; and the transformation of IA basilar artery VSMCs from the contractile type to the synthetic type. However, the silencing of MALAT1 had the opposite effect. The silencing of MALAT1 downregulated SEMA3C, and its silencing inactivated the Smad pathway. Furthermore, SEMA3C overexpression attenuated the effects of MALAT1 silencing on IA basilar artery VSMC proliferation, apoptosis, invasiveness, proinflammatory cytokines, phenotype switching, and Smad pathway inactivation. In vivo, silencing MALAT1 reduced the release of TNF-α, IL-1β, and IL-6, decreased pathological progression, inhibited VSMC synthetic type switching, and inactivated the Smad pathway in IA rats. However, the overexpression of SEMA3C reversed these effects.Silencing MALAT1 represses pathological progression, inflammation, and VSMC phenotype switching by regulating the SEMA3C-mediated Smad pathway in IA.Copyright © 2026 Kang, Li, Gao, Tian, Feng, Yao, Wei, Chen, Chen, Tong, Chen and Gu.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a prevalent and deadly malignancy. SEMA4C has been found to promote CRC progression, although the regulatory mechanisms behind SEMA4C expression in CRC tissues remain elusive. In this study, we examined 40 ubiquitin-specific proteases (USPs) that may influence SEMA4C stability and identified USP32 as a potent stabilizer. Through bioinformatics analysis, we discovered that USP32 mRNA expression is elevated in CRC tissues. Suppressing USP32 led to decreased cell viability, cell cycle arrest, reduced migration and invasion capabilities, and lower levels of proteins associated with epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT). USP32 directly interacts with SEMA4C in CRC cells, and its knockdown heightened SEMA4C ubiquitination and accelerated its degradation. Moreover, USP32 enhances the protein stability of SEMA4C by regulating its K48 ubiquitination. Overexpressing SEMA4C strengthened the weakened malignant behaviors of USP32-deficient CRC cells. These results indicate that USP32 acts as an oncogene in CRC by stabilizing SEMA4C, highlighting a new mechanism in CRC pathogenesis and suggesting USP32 as a novel potential therapeutic target for CRC treatment.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Multicellular circulating tumor cell (CTC) clusters can be up to 50 times more efficient than single CTCs in mediating viable metastasis. Here, combining computational ranking and functional determination, we identify the transmembrane protein Plexin-B2 (PLXNB2) as one of the top molecular targets associated with unfavorable distant metastasis-free survival, showing enriched expression in CTC clusters versus single CTCs from patients with advanced breast cancer (mostly female). Loss of PLXNB2 (Plxnb2) reduces the formation of homotypic tumor cell clusters and heterotypic tumor-myeloid cell clusters, reducing spontaneous metastases in female mice bearing human (mouse) breast cancer. Interactions of PLXNB2 with its ligands SEMA4C on tumor cells and SEMA4A on myeloid cells (monocytes) promote homotypic and heterotypic CTC cluster formation, respectively, thereby driving lung metastasis. Global proteomic analysis reveals downstream effectors of the PLXNB2 pathway associated with tumor cell clustering. Thus, PLXNB2 is a therapeutic target for preventing new metastasis in breast cancer.© 2025. The Author(s).
J. Song and Y. Li, "miR-25-3p Reverses Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition via Targeting Sema4C in Cisplatin-Resistance Cervical Cancer Cells," Cancer Science 108, no. 1 (2017): 23-31, https://doi.org/10.1111/cas.13104. The above article, published online on 01 December 2016 in Wiley Online Library (wileyonlinelibrary.com), has been retracted by agreement between the journal Editor-in-Chief, Masanori Hatakeyama; the Japanese Cancer Association; and John Wiley & Sons Australia Ltd. The retraction has been agreed following an investigation into concerns raised by a third party, which revealed inappropriate duplication of image panels (Figures 1b, 2a, b and 3c) between this and several other articles published previously or in the same year by a different group of authors, in a different scientific context. Given the extent of the identified issues, the editors have lost confidence in the data presented and the article's conclusions can no longer be considered reliable. The authors and their institute have been informed of the concerns and the decision to retract but they remained unresponsive.© 2025 The Author(s). Cancer Science published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.
Semaphorins (SEMAs), originally identified as axon guidance factors, have been found to play crucial roles in tumor growth, invasiveness, neoangiogenesis, and the modulation of immune responses. However, the prognostic value of SEMA-related genes in colorectal cancer (CRC) remains unclear.We applied a novel machine learning framework that incorporated 10 machine learning algorithms and their 101 combinations to construct a SEMAs-related score (SRS). Multi-omics analysis was performed, including single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), and spatial transcriptome (ST) to gain a more comprehensive understanding of the SRS. A series of cell experiments were conducted to prove the impact of key genes on CRC biological behavior.A consensus SRS was finally constructed based on a 101-combination machine learning computational framework, demonstrating outstanding performance in predicting overall survival. Moreover, distinct biological functions, mutation burden, immune cell infiltration, and immunotherapy response were observed between the high- and low-SRS groups. scRNA-seq and ST demonstrated unique cellular heterogeneity in CRC. We observed that SRS-high and SRS-low malignant epithelial cells exhibit different biological characteristics. High SRS malignant epithelial cells interact with myeloid and endothelial cells via SPP1 and COL4A2-ITGAV-ITGB8 pathways, respectively. Low SRS cells engage with myeloid and endothelial cells through MIF and JAG1-NOTCH4 pathways. Additionally, knocking down SEMA4C significantly inhibits the proliferation and invasion of CRC cells, while promoting apoptosis in vitro.SRS could serve as an effective tool to predict survival and identify potential patients benefiting from immunotherapy in CRC. It also reveals tumor heterogeneity and provides valuable biological insights in CRC.Copyright © 2025 Zhu, Xu, Wu, Yu, Ji, Lian and Lu.
Tumor development involves the critical role of programmed cell death (PCD), but the correlation between colon adenocarcinoma (COAD) and PCD-related genes is not clear.Subtyping analysis of COAD was performed by consensus clustering based on The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), with the AC-ICAM queue from the cBioportal database as a validation set. Immune infiltration of the samples was evaluated using CIBERSORT and Microenvironment Cell Populations (MCP)-counter algorithms. Patients' immunotherapy response was predicted by the TIDE and aneuploidy scores. Pathway enrichment analysis was conducted with gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA). A RiskScore model was established with independent prognostic PCD-related genes filtered by Cox regression analysis. The mafCompare function was used to compare the differences in mutation rates of somatic genes. Wound healing, transwell assays and Flow cytometer were applied to measure the cell migration, invasion and apoptosis.The patients were grouped into S1 and S2 subtypes based on a total of 21 PCD genes associated with the prognostic outcomes of COAD. Specifically, patients of S1 subtype were mainly related to the pathway activation in tumor invasion and deterioration and had a worse prognosis. A RiskScore model was established based on six prognostic genes, including two protective genes (ATOH1, ZG16) and four risk genes (HSPA1A, SEMA4C, CDKN2A, ARHGAP4). Notably, silencing of CDKN2A inhibited the activity of migration and invasion and promoted apoptosis of tumor cells. Based on the RiskScore model, the patients were grouped into high- and low-risk groups. Independent prognostic factors, namely, Age, pathologic_M, pathologic_stage, and RiskScore, were integrated to develop a nomogram with strong good prediction performance. High-risk group had high-expressed immune checkpoint genes and higher TIDE scores, showing a strong immune escape ability and less active immunotherapy response. Compared to the low-risk group, TP53 exhibited a higher rate of somatic mutation in the high-risk group.We constructed a RiskScore model with six PCD-related genes for the prognostic assessment of COAD, providing a valuable insight into the exploration of new targets for the prognostic improvement in COAD.© 2025 Zheng et al.
Skipped: PubMed ID 39756719 is a review article
Among primary liver cancers, HCC is the most prevalent. Small noncoding RNAs called miRNAs control the expression of downstream target genes to take part in a variety of physiological and pathological processes, including those related to cancer.miR-129-2-3p and SEMA4C expression levels were assessed using RT-qPCR. The CCK-8, invasion, and wound healing assays were used to confirm the capacity of HCC cells for proliferation, invasion and migration respectively. Serum SEMA4C levels were detected via ELISA. The RIP and dual-luciferase reporter assays were used to confirm the existence of intergenic binding sites. Cell apoptosis assay and cell cycle assay were performed to detect the apoptosis rate and cycle distribution of cells, and WB was performed to detect the protein expression of SEMA4C, RhoA, ROCK1, E-cadherin, N-cadherin, and vimentin. Furthermore, cancer-inhibiting role of miR-129-2-3p were further confirmed by animal tests.miR-129-2-3p expression was reduced in HCC tissues and cells. Overexpression of miR-129-2-3p decreased the proliferation, invasion, migration, and EMT in HCC cells, whereas inhibition of miR-129-2-3p had the opposite effects. Our research also showed that SEMA4C was increased in HCC tissues, serum and cells, and that SEMA4C knockdown prevented HCC cell invasion, migration, proliferation, and EMT. Overexpression of SEMA4C reversed the inhibitory effect of miR-129-2-3p on HCC.Overall, we discovered that through binding to SEMA4C, miR-129-2-3p regulates HCC cell proliferation, invasion, migration, and EMT.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The genome-wide analysis of runs of homozygosity (ROH) islands can be an effective strategy for identifying shared variants within a population and uncovering important genomic regions related to complex traits. The current study performed ROH analysis to characterize the genome-wide patterns of homozygosity, identify ROH islands and annotated genes within these candidate regions using whole-genome sequencing data from 100 American mink (Neogale vison). After sequence processing, variants were called using GATK and Samtools pipelines. Subsequent to quality control, 8,373,854 bi-allelic variants identified by both pipelines remained for further analysis. A total of 34,652 ROH segments were identified in all individuals, among which shorter segments (0.3-1 Mb) were abundant throughout the genome, approximately accounting for 84.39% of all ROH. Within these segments, we identified 63 ROH islands housing 156 annotated genes. The genes located in ROH islands were associated with fur quality (EDNRA, FGF2, FOXA2 and SLC24A4), body size/weight (MYLK4, PRIM2, FABP2, EYS and PHF3), immune capacity (IL2, IL21, PTP4A1, SEMA4C, JAK2, CCNA2 and TNIP3) and reproduction (ADAD1, KHDRBS2, INSL6, PGRMC2 and HSPA4L). Furthermore, Gene Ontology and KEGG pathway enrichment analyses revealed 56 and 9 significant terms (FDR-corrected p-value < 0.05), respectively, among which cGMP-PKG signalling pathway, regulation of actin cytoskeleton, and calcium signalling pathway were highlighted due to their functional roles in growth and fur characteristics. This is the first study to present ROH islands in American mink. The candidate genes from ROH islands and functional enrichment analysis suggest possible signatures of selection in response to the mink breeding targets, such as increased body length, reproductive performance and fur quality. These findings contribute to our understanding of genetic characteristics, and provide complementary information to assist with implementation of breeding strategies for genetic improvement in American mink.© 2024 The Authors. Journal of Animal Breeding and Genetics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) and focal cortical dysplasia (FCD) type IIb are the predominant causes of drug-refractory epilepsy in children. Dysmorphic neurons (DNs), giant cells (GCs), and balloon cells (BCs) are the most typical pathogenic profiles in cortical lesions of TSC and FCD IIb patients. However, mechanisms underlying the pathological processes of TSC and FCD IIb remain obscure. The Plexin-B2-Sema4C signalling pathway plays critical roles in neuronal morphogenesis and corticogenesis during the development of the central nervous system. However, the role of the Plexin-B2 system in the pathogenic process of TSC and FCD IIb has not been identified. In the present study, we investigated the expression and cell distribution characteristics of Plexin-B2 and Sema4C in TSC and FCD IIb lesions with molecular technologies. Our results showed that the mRNA and protein levels of Plexin-B2 expression were significantly increased both in TSC and FCD IIb lesions versus that in the control cortex. Notably, Plexin-B2 was also predominantly observed in GCs in TSC epileptic lesions and BCs in FCD IIb lesions. In contrast, the expression of Sema4C, the ligand of Plexin-B2, was significantly decreased in DNs, GCs, and BCs in TSC and FCD IIb epileptic lesions. Additionally, Plexin-B2 and Sema4C were expressed in astrocytes and microglia cells in TSC and FCD IIb lesions. Furthermore, the expression of Plexin-B2 was positively correlated with seizure frequency in TSC and FCD IIb patients. In conclusion, our results showed the Plexin-B2-Sema4C system was abnormally expressed in cortical lesions of TSC and FCD IIb patients, signifying that the Plexin-B2-Sema4C system may play a role in the pathogenic development of TSC and FCD IIb.©The Author(s) 2024. Open Access. This article is licensed under a Creative Commons CC-BY International License.
Allergic rhinitis (AR) is a common immunoglobulin (Ig) E-mediated disease. This study aimed to evaluate the gene expression levels of class 4 semaphorins and their receptors in AR patients before and after treatment with budesonide and fexofenadine (B/F) compared to fluticasone propionate and fexofenadine (FP/F).In this study, 29 AR patients (age 34.4 ± 1.2 years, 18 men and 11 women) were treated with B/F, and 24 AR patients (age 32.8 ± 1.9 years, 15 men and 9 women) were treated with FP/F for one month. Before and after treatment, peripheral blood samples were taken from patients. The expression levels of SEMA4A, SEMA4C, SEMA4D, Plexin-B2, and Plexin-D1 genes were measured using the qPCR method. In addition, the serum levels of IgE were measured using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).The expression levels of SEMA4A (P = 0.011), 4C (P = 0.017), Plexin-B2 (P = 0.0005), and Plexin-D1 (P = 0.008) remarkably increased in AR patients treated with B/F. Our results show a significant reduction in the gene expression levels of SEMA4A (P = 0.002), 4C (P = 0.014), 4D (P = 0.003), Plexin-B2 (P = 0.033), and Plexin-D1 (P = 0.035) after treatment with FP/F. The serum levels of IgE increased in FP/F treated group (P = 0.017) and conversely decreased in the treated group with B/F (P = 0.019). Moreover, the percentages of eosinophils were reduced in both FP/F and B/F groups (P = 0.015 and P = 0.0001, respectively).In conclusion, concomitant use of fexofenadine and fluticasone propionate reduced SEMA4A, 4C, 4D, Plexin-B2, and Plexin-D1, while the SEMA4A, 4C, Plexin-B2, and Plexin-D1 gene expression levels were increased in the patient group treated with B/F.© 2023 The Authors.
SEMA6A is a transmembrane protein that plays a role in axon guidance and cell migration. Sema6a null mice have cerebral anatomical defects and altered social interactions and working memory. However, the phenotypes associated with loss of SEMA6A function have not been clearly defined in humans. Here we describe 11 individuals who are heterozygous for putatively damaging variants affecting SEMA6A. All of these individuals (100%) had neurodevelopmental phenotypes that included developmental delay, intellectual disability, and/or autism spectrum disorder. Abnormal behaviors were seen in 73% with oppositional defiant disorder being diagnosed in 27% and acting out, overeating, and tantrums each being described in 18% of individuals. Disorders of attention were documented in 45%. Among the six individuals who had a brain MRI, 50% had at least one abnormal finding. Of the eight SEMA6A variants with known inheritance, five were inherited. Taken together, our data suggest that loss of SEMA6A function may be associated with an increased risk of neurodevelopmental phenotypes, abnormal behaviors, disorders of attention, and brain anomalies. Additional studies will be needed to determine if SEMA6A haploinsufficiency is best characterized as an autosomal dominant disorder with incomplete penetrance or as a risk factor for these phenotypes.© 2026 The Author(s). Clinical Genetics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a common degenerative disease characterized by the deterioration of articular cartilage, affecting approximately 240 million people worldwide. Low-grade inflammation-particularly the imbalance in macrophage polarization-is a critical factor in osteoarthritis progression. M1-type macrophages exacerbate cartilage destruction by secreting pro-inflammatory factors and matrix-degrading enzymes, while M2-type macrophages promote repair through anti-inflammatory factors. While macrophage polarization changes in OA have been reported, the macrophage subpopulation communication architecture and dominant ligand-receptor axes across dynamic state transitions remain unclear-and that this is what our integrated framework aims to address.This study leverages single-cell transcriptomic data, including 6 normal samples and 12 OA samples, to systematically analyze the interaction patterns and key ligand-receptor pairs of M1/M2 macrophages during OA progression. Methods include cell subset annotation, GSVA functional enrichment, pseudotemporal trajectory analysis, and hdWGCNA network construction. This study provides single-cell-level evidence for the inflammatory mechanisms of OA.Cell-cell communication analysis revealed strong bidirectional interactions between M1 and M2 macrophages. Integrative analysis of macrophage subpopulations, pseudotime, hdWGCNA, and cell-cell communication analysis identified SEMA4A as the only overlapping key gene. The SEMA4 signaling pathway exhibited active communication among macrophage subpopulations, with M1 macrophages acting as dominant signal senders. Ligand-receptor analysis showed that SEMA4A-PLXNB2 was the predominant interaction pair with the highest communication probability.This study identified a dynamic "increase-then-decrease" expression pattern of SEMA4A along the macrophage pseudotime trajectory, suggesting its involvement in macrophage differentiation and state transitions. Ligand-receptor analysis revealed SEMA4A-PLXNB2 as the dominant interaction signaling pathway among macrophage subpopulations, with M1 macrophages acting as central hubs in sending and receiving signals. Together with previous evidence that SEMA4A forms a positive feedback loop with NF-κB and amplifies IL-6/TNF-α production, thereby promoting cartilage catabolism and tissue remodeling, these findings indicate that, in osteoarthritic joints, SEMA4A-PLXNB2 signaling pathway sustains and amplifies the inflammatory microenvironment through macrophage-stromal crosstalk and represents a potential therapeutic candidate that warrants further validation.The SEMA4A-PLXNB2 signaling pathway plays an important role in the macrophage-associated inflammatory network and may contribute to the progression of OA, representing a potential therapeutic candidate warranting further validation.Copyright © 2026 Qiu, Huang, Yu, Wei, Ren, Yang, Shi and Wei.
Multimorbidity, defined here as the co-occurrence of cardiovascular disease (CVD), type 2 diabetes (T2D), and/or cancer is a major public health challenge. However, its underlying biological mechanisms remain unclear, limiting progress toward identifying shared interventional targets.We applied large-scale plasma proteomics (SomaScan 7k; 7,289 aptamers) in 13,270 European Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition (EPIC) participants to identify protein signatures of multimorbidity. We modelled multimorbidity progression as sequential disease transitions, i.e., from the disease-free state at baseline to a first disease and from the first disease to a second disease. Using weighted multivariable Cox regression, we estimated hazard ratios (HR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) for risk of cancer, CVD, and T2D. Risk associations were replicated using Olink proteomics in UK Biobank (N = 44,567).We identified 422 aptamers associated with more than one disease (FDR-corrected P < 0.05), e.g., 265 aptamers were shared between CVD and T2D. Thirty-eight aptamers were associated with multimorbidity progression. Among these, 27 aptamers showed consistent positive associations across sequential disease transitions, including SEMA6A (disease-free to cancer HR: 1.14; 95% CI 1.05, 1.23; cancer to T2D HR: 2.61; 95% CI 1.76, 3.80). Four aptamers showed consistent inverse associations, including NLGN1 (disease-free to T2D HR: 0.72; 95% CI 0.61, 0.84; T2D to cancer HR: 0.57; 95% CI 0.43, 0.75). Nineteen of the identified proteins were also measured in UK Biobank, with broadly consistent associations.This study identifies candidate proteins that may indicate molecular pathways to multimorbidity of cardiometabolic diseases and cancer. Future studies should evaluate the causal roles of these proteins for targeted interventions and risk stratification.© 2026. The Author(s).
Optic nerve injury induces rapid retinal neurodegeneration; however, how distinct retinal cell type responses are coordinated from the hyperacute injury phase to the early repair phase remains incompletely understood. In this study, to explore the dynamic changes in intercellular and intracellular signaling events between different cell types and elucidate their potential roles in retinal ganglion cell survival and early repair, we generated a time-resolved single-nucleus RNA sequencing atlas of adult male mouse retinas across five hyperacute-to-acute timepoints (2 hours, 8 hours, 1 day, 3 days, and 7 days) following optic nerve injury. Using computational network analysis, we reconstructed dynamic cell-to-cell communication and subsequent internal genetic responses among retinal ganglion cells, Müller glia, microglia, and endothelial cells. Distinct stage-specific intercellular communication networks were identified, including transient Itgb1-associated signaling between Müller glia and retinal ganglion cells that peaked at early timepoints, enhanced Nrxn1-Nlgn1-mediated signaling in endothelial cells during the acute phase, and sustained Sema6a-Plxna4 interactions in microglia through day 7. Functional pathway analysis linked these signaling events to focal adhesion, energy metabolism, immune regulation, and cell adhesion pathways. Multiplex immunofluorescence further validated the temporal dynamics and spatial localization of key signaling molecules, including Itgb1, Nlgn1, and Plxna4, consistent with the transcriptomic findings. Collectively, these results delineate a coordinated hyperacute-to-acute neuro-glial-vascular signaling network that supports retinal ganglion cell survival and identify potential molecular targets for therapeutic intervention following optic nerve injury.Copyright © 2026 Neural Regeneration Research.
Zebrafish, in contrast to mammals, regenerate neurons after spinal cord injury, but little is known about the control mechanisms of this process. Here we use scRNA-seq and in vivo experiments to show that sema4ab, mainly expressed by lesion-reactive microglia, attenuates regenerative neurogenesis by changing the complex lesion environment. After spinal injury, disruption of sema4ab doubles the number of newly generated progenitor cells and neurons but attenuates axon regrowth and recovery of swimming function. Disruption of the plxnb1a/b receptors, selectively expressed by neural progenitor cells, increases regenerative neurogenesis. In addition, disruption of sema4ab alters activation state and cytokine expression of microglia, such that fibroblasts increase expression of the cytokine tgfb3, which strongly promotes regenerative neurogenesis. Hence, we propose that sema4ab expression in microglia attenuates regenerative neurogenesis in multiple ways, likely directly through plxnb1a/b receptors and indirectly, by controlling the inflammatory milieu and tgfb3 levels. Targeting Sema4A-dependent signaling in non-regenerating vertebrates may be a future strategy to improve regenerative outcomes.Copyright: © 2026 Docampo-Seara et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42565567 is a review article
[This corrects the article DOI: 10.34133/research.1018.].Copyright © 2026 Zijian Chen et al.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42560134 is a review article
Endometriosis (EMS) is characterised by a disrupted peritoneal immune microenvironment where M2 macrophage polarization and impaired phagocytosis promote lesion survival. Single-cell RNA-seq (ScRNAseq) of the peritoneal macrophages from EMS patient revealed elevated Triggering Receptor Expressed on Myeloid cells 2 (TREM2) and signal regulatory protein α (SIRPα). The expression of TREM2 and SIRPa is positively correlated, and each are positively correlated with estrogen response. Mouse EMS model was established by intraperitoneal injection of estrogen primed mouse endometrial fragments into recipient female mice. In vitro estrogen treatment of RAW 264.7 cells indicated an increasing TREM2/SIRPα expression and enhancing phagocytosis of lesion cells derived from WT EMS ectopic lesions. Peritoneal macrophage from mice with EMS were analyzed using flow cytometry for the expression of TREM2 and SIRPα. The assessment of F4/80, CD206, and SIRPα expressing cells within the lesions were performed through the implementation of multi-color immunohistochemistry (mIHC). Small peritoneal macrophages (SpMs, F4/80low CD11blow) were markedly increased in the EMS model. Trem2 knockout mice, as the recipient, showed smaller ectopic lesion size and less lesion formation. TREM2 deficiency inhibited SpM polarization into M2 and downregulated their SIRPα expression, while enhancing phagocytic activity. Mechanistically, estrogen pretreatment upregulated TREM2, which correlated with SIRPα upregulation and impaired phagocytosis. Under estrogen exposure, TREM2 knockdown RAW 264.7 cells potentiated phagocytosis. Thus, TREM2 is an important contributing pathogenic factor in promoting EMS by enhancing M2 polarization and suppressing phagocytosis via SIRPα upregulation.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society for the Study of Reproduction. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42553440 is a review article
Advances in single-cell technologies have provided detailed insight into cellular heterogeneity within tumor microenvironments. However, the regulatory mechanisms driving macrophage-mediated immune suppression in thyroid cancer remain incompletely understood.We applied integrated single-cell multi-omics approaches to tumor samples from patients and murine thyroid cancer models, including single-cell RNA sequencing, single-cell ATAC sequencing, mass cytometry, spatial/histological validation, and in vitro and in vivo functional assays.We identified a prominent enrichment of TREM2+ tumor-associated macrophages within the thyroid cancer immune microenvironment. These macrophages displayed an immunosuppressive transcriptional and metabolic profile and promoted immune evasion through activation of the AHR-IDO1-kynurenine signaling axis, leading to impaired CD8+ T-cell function. Pharmacological inhibition of AHR and IDO1 reversed immune suppression and reduced tumor burden in experimental models.These findings reveal a TREM2+ macrophage-driven immunometabolic mechanism in thyroid cancer and suggest that targeting the AHR-IDO1-kynurenine pathway may provide a potential strategy for improving antitumor immunity.Copyright © 2026 Le, Huang, Jiang, Lv and Chen.
Mitochondrial dysfunction is a primary pathogenic mechanism underlying dopaminergic neuron loss in the nigrostriatal pathway in Parkinson's disease (PD). To investigate mitochondrion-targeted therapeutic strategies, we utilized the MitoPark mouse model, in which mitochondrial transcription factor A (Tfam) is selectively ablated in midbrain dopamine neurons, resulting in progressive neurodegeneration. We designed multifunctional lyotropic liquid crystalline nanoparticles (LCNPs) of the cubosome and hexosome types for noninvasive nose-to-brain delivery. These nanocarriers were engineered with lipids essential for membrane integrity (plasmalogens and ω-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs)) and a nonlamellar structural lipid (monoolein). They coencapsulated the neuroprotective antioxidants ginkgolide B and quercetin. To facilitate neuronal targeting and uptake, the surface of the LCNP was modified by conjugation with pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) and a rabies virus glycoprotein (RVG)-derived peptide-oleic acid (RVG-OL) conjugate. In vitro studies using differentiated SH-SY5Y cells subjected to oxidative stress demonstrated that the targeted LNPs enhanced cellular uptake and activated key neuroprotective signaling cascades, including AKT, ERK, and STAT3 phosphorylation. In vivo, intranasal administration of the optimized LNPs in MitoPark mice was associated with a trend toward the preservation of dopaminergic neuronal markers (such as tyrosine hydroxylase) and the regulation of mitochondrial-related proteins such as ATP5A1. Transcriptomic profiling revealed extensive molecular reprogramming. The peptide-functionalized LNPs upregulated genes enriched in mitochondrial biogenesis (Ppargc1a and Pink1) and survival (Bcl2) but downregulated the expression of neuroinflammatory mediators (Il6, Nos2, Myd88, and Trem2) and apoptotic effectors. These findings establish peptide-targeted, therapeutic lipid (plasmalogen/PUFA)-based nanoassemblies as a potent nonviral platform for noninvasive nose-to-brain delivery that may modulate mitochondrial- and neurodegeneration-related signaling pathways in a genetic model of PD.© 2026. The Author(s).
Cancer recurrence and distant metastasis are major causes of cancer-related death, yet existing biomarkers and single-omics models have limited accuracy and interpretability across tumor types.We developed OMNIS (OMics Network Integration and Spatial representation), a convolutional deep-learning framework that embeds multi-omics profiles into a five-channel genomic image ordered by Hi-C-derived chromosomal proximity. Somatic mutation, copy-number alteration, DNA methylation and gene-expression data from 1,578 TCGA tumors across 33 cancer types were used to train classifiers for recurrence risk and for primary-versus-metastatic status. Performance was assessed by 10-fold cross-validation using AUROC, AUPR and threshold-based metrics. Integrated gradients yielded per-gene attribution scores; top-ranked genes were evaluated for prognostic value in two independent non-small cell lung cancer cohorts (GSE31210, n = 226; GSE135222, n = 27) using survival analyses.OMNIS achieved high discrimination for recurrence (AUROC/AUPR 0.970/0.937) and metastasis (0.980/0.883), with accuracies of 0.873-0.911 and negative predictive values ≥0.970 across tasks. Spatial genomic embedding accelerated convergence and outperformed non-spatial baselines. Attribution highlighted seven recurrence-associated genes (including IBA57, DNTTIP1, SLC20A2 and TMEM201) and ten metastasis-associated genes (including PLXNA1, POLR3D, TTLL4, SREBF2, TYMP and ZBTB7C). In external cohorts, expression of these genes showed independent, stage-dependent associations with progression-free and overall survival.OMNIS is a spatially informed multi-omics framework that couples accurate prediction with gene-level interpretability. By embedding three-dimensional genome organization into deep-learning models, OMNIS nominates biologically coherent, context-specific drivers of progression and may guide future biomarker development and personalized therapy in precision oncology.Copyright © 2026 Li, Xing, Gao and Liu.
Lymphatic valves are essential for maintaining tissue fluid homeostasis, and their dysfunction leads to lymphedema, a morbid and disfiguring disease without a cure. Mechanical forces due to lymph flow are required for proper lymphatic valve development, yet it remains unclear how lymphatic endothelial cells (LECs) sense and decode mechanical signals. In this study, we identify the cell guidance semaphorin receptor plexin D1 (PLXND1) as a lymphatic mechanosensor required for lymphatic valve morphogenesis. Conditional genetic ablation of Plxnd1 in LECs caused major defects in lymphatic valve development in 2 different lymphatic vascular beds. Mechanistically, PLXND1 acted as a mechanosensor within a lymphatic mechanocomplex, initiating distinct mechanical signals and activating the lymphatic valve transcriptional program through an unconventional pathway. Screening of patients with primary lymphedema identified PLXND1 missense variants, and functional analysis established 2 pathogenic variants that selectively disrupt the ligand versus mechanosensing functions of this receptor. Variants associated with lymphedema in members of the mechanocomplex disrupted its formation, underscoring the central role of this complex in lymphatic valve biology. Our work uncovers a mechanosensing mechanism guiding lymphatic valve development, and has profound implications for the understanding and treatment of primary lymphedema in humans.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42372934 is a review article
Background/Objectives: Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) is a systemic disorder driven by genetic predisposition, epigenetic programming, metabolic rewiring, and immune dysregulation. Although population genetics and single-cell transcriptomics have advanced our understanding, the multi-omic causal architecture of MASLD at cellular resolution remains poorly defined. This study aimed to establish an integrative framework linking genetic causality to cell-type-specific tissue dysfunction. Methods: Multi-layered Mendelian randomization (MR) and summary-data-based MR (SMR) across large-scale eQTL and pQTL datasets were applied to prioritize causal genes. Single-cell eQTL-based MR across 14 immune lineages generated cell-type-specific causal hypotheses, which were validated using human hepatic single-cell RNA-sequencing data (GSE136103). Two-step mediation MR quantified upstream epigenetic and downstream metabolic mechanisms. A high-fat diet (HFD)-induced murine model provided organismal validation. Results: Multi-layered MR nominated PLXND1 as a robust causal driver of MASLD. Single-cell eQTL-based MR revealed a functional dichotomy: PLXND1 upregulation in CD8+ effector memory T-cells decreased MASLD risk (OR = 0.486, 95% CI: 0.290-0.813, p = 0.006), whereas upregulation in natural killer cells (OR = 1.567, 95% CI: 1.337-1.837, p < 0.001), non-classical monocytes, and dendritic cells increased risk. Human hepatic single-cell transcriptomics confirmed that PLXND1 marks an anti-fibrotic, IFNG-high CD8+ T subset and a pro-inflammatory lipid-associated macrophage (LAM) population. Mediation MR identified DNA methylation at cg26767922 and cg08471739 as protective mediators acting predominantly via PLXND1 downregulation (92.39% and 64.50% mediation, respectively), and linked PLXND1 to six circulating metabolites. HFD mice showed significant hepatic PLXND1 upregulation. Conclusions:PLXND1 functions as a lineage-dependent molecular switch in MASLD, validated across genetic, epigenetic, metabolic, and single-cell dimensions. These findings caution against systemic PLXND1 blockade and support precision therapeutic strategies targeting hepatic innate immune cells.
Minimising methane (CH4) emissions from livestock production is a global priority, and feed modifications, such as supplementing diets with microalgae, have previously been shown to help reducing enteric CH4 production. This study explored blood-derived host gene expression profiles from twenty lambs supplemented with increasing levels of microalgae oil to investigate their transcriptional responses associated with varying microalgae oil levels while also exploring the host systemic responses towards varied CH4 productions.Findings revealed no significant changes in CH4 production with increasing levels of microalgae oil intake through phenotypic analysis (P = 0.18). However inter-individual variations in CH4 production ranged from 27.02 to 47.86 g/day throughout the study period. Blood RNA-Sequencing identified 64 significant genes including DHCR7, DHCR24, HMGCS1, INSIG1, LSS, MSMO1, and SQLE, which were involved in lipid metabolism, and steroid biosynthesis that became enriched alongside increasing microalgae oil intake levels thereby contributing to a positive impact on lambs' metabolic functions. Additionally, seven significant blood-expressed host genes (NME4, MARCHF3, PLXNB3, LOC132657460, LOC121819234, LOC105603087, LOC101116551) functionally enriched in nucleotide metabolic pathways and immune responses were identified to have significant positive associations with increasing CH4 production. Importantly, this study found no overlap between genes associated with microalgae oil intake and those linked to CH4 emissions.Findings suggest that microalgae oil intake and inter-individual variations in CH₄ production are associated with distinct blood-derived transcriptional responses. Although such signals should be interpreted as proxies for systemic host responses rather than direct measures of rumen-specific processes, these results emphasise the importance of considering host-associated molecular variations alongside dietary CH₄-mitigation strategies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Post-translational modifications (PTMs) in APP and MAPT contribute to plaques and tangles in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Yet broader proteome-wide PTMs in the AD brain are relatively unexplored. Therefore, this study highlights associations between PTMs, quantified by mass spectrometry in prefrontal cortex tissue, and Alzheimer's disease neuropathology and cognition. Leveraging PTMs quantified from prefrontal cortices in 101 Rush Memory and Aging Project participants. We assessed associations with post-mortem amyloid-β and tau burden, global cognition, and cognitive decline. First, APP and MAPT PTM associations were assessed on these outcomes given their known relevance in AD, followed by assessment of protein-wide effects of PTMs. Then, kinase enrichment analysis was performed on each outcome to assess which kinases might contribute to the results. We observed a novel association of APP-K687 acetylation, a known mutation hotspot driving pathology, with amyloid-β load (β=0.44, P=3.9e-8), while confirming known MAPT PTMs with tangle burden. Further, we identified 20+ novel PTMs' associations with AD neuropathology, including ENO2-K256 ubiquitination (β=0.353, P=1.13e-6), PSMD13-K31 ubiquitination (β=0.568, P=1.34e-6), and PLXND1-K1826 ubiquitination (β=0.577, P=7.08e-8) for tangle burden and SYP-K23 ubiquitination (β=1.50, P=4.7e-8), TMEFF2-C80 cysteine oxidation (β=1.64, P=1.1e-8), and STX1B-T121 phosphorylation (β=0.898, P=3.3e-7) for amyloid-β load. Further, kinase enrichment analyses highlight the complexity of disease-related proteome changes with some kinases like CDK5 showing expected over-enrichment (amyloid z=3.44, P=3.0e-4; tau z=4.98, P=3.3e-7) but others like PKC family kinases showing divergent enrichment between amyloid (z=8.98-11.55, P<1.0e-18) and tau (z=-2.83--3.88, P<0.006). This study provides an atlas of brain PTMs within crucial proteins like MAPT and APP and at the proteome-wide level, that impact AD neuropathology and clinical presentation. Further, we explored what kinases might be driving phosphorylation results, emphasizing the complex proteome changes which impact AD. In sum, these results highlight robust post-translational alterations in the AD brain and provide novel targets for future mechanistic studies.
We investigated neurotensin receptor 1 (NTSR1) as a potential mediator of the mechanical immune barrier that contributes to T-cell exclusion.The efficacy of immunotherapy in advanced colorectal cancer (CRC) is limited by primary resistance, frequently characterized by an "immune-excluded" phenotype where physical and biological barriers prevent effector T-cell infiltration. Through its high-affinity receptor, NTSR1, neurotensin signaling has been implicated in tumor progression, yet its role in shaping the immune landscape of CRC remains unclear.We integrated transcriptomic and clinical data from The Cancer Genome Atlas discovery cohort with an independent surgical validation cohort from the University of Kentucky. Random Forest machine learning identified molecular features associated with NTS/NTSR1 signaling, and a 3D tumor spheroid co-culture model was employed to evaluate the impact of NTS/NTSR1 signaling on spatial T-cell distribution in vitro.Dual-cohort analyses revealed high NTSR1 expression as an independent risk factor for progression-free interval in the discovery cohort and overall survival in the validation cohort. Mechanistically, the NTS/NTSR1 axis upregulates a mechano-structural network centered on PLXNB3, FLNC, and AHNAK2, while simultaneously driving epithelial dedifferentiation through downregulation of core transcription factors (CDX2, SATB2). Together, these transcriptional programs are associated with the remodeling of the tumor microenvironment into an immune-cold, suppressive state. Moreover, 3D modeling indicated that ligand-activated NTS/NTSR1 signaling restricts T-cell infiltration, which was significantly reversed by the NTSR1 antagonist SR48692, providing functional support for a mechanical immune barrier proposed based on transcriptomic remodeling.Targeting the NTS/NTSR1 axis may attenuate biological and physical barriers underlying immune exclusion, providing a preclinical rationale for converting immune-excluded CRCs into immune-responsive tumors.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.
Retinal angiogenesis relies on a precisely timed interaction between astrocytes and endothelial cells (ECs), yet the transcriptional regulatory program underlying this complex neurovascular crosstalk remains poorly characterized. Here, we define Zeb2 as a pivotal transcriptional modulator of retinal astrocyte function that coordinates developmental and pathological vascular growth. It is transiently expressed in retinal astrocyte progenitor cells during development and re-induced under pathological hypoxia. Conditional ablation of Zeb2 in retinal astrocytes enhanced their proliferation, migration, and maturation by upregulating VEGFA and altering other signalling, leading to excessive superficial vascular growth during development. In oxygen-induced retinopathy, Zeb2 inactivation exacerbated pathological neovascularization while impairing reparative revascularization, which is associated with a transcriptional signature favouring tuft ECs over tip ECs. Mechanistically, it inhibited the neurotoxic A1 astrocyte identity, resulting in dampened inflammatory response and diminished genetic program promoting revascularization and/or preventing neovascularization including Plxnd1, Nrf2, and FGF2 signalling. These findings establish Zeb2 as an oxygen-sensitive regulator of astrocyte function that differentially modulates physiological and pathological angiogenesis, highlighting its potential as a therapeutic target in proliferative retinopathies.© 2026 The Author(s). Cell Proliferation published by Beijing Institute for Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Anxiety is a common non-motor symptom of Parkinson's disease (PD), affecting 20 %-50 % of the patients, with an unmet need for effective therapies. Although perineuronal net (PNN) abnormalities have been implicated in both PD and anxiety, the underlying mechanisms and potential treatments remain poorly characterised.In this study, we investigated whether baicalein ameliorates PD-associated anxiety via modulation of parvalbumin (PV) interneuron function by targeting semaphorin 3A (Sema3A).Unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesioning of the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) was used to establish a PD rat model. Motor behaviours were assessed via gait analysis, rotarod test, and open field test (OFT). Anxiety-like phenotypes associated with PD were evaluated using the elevated plus maze (EPM) and marble burying test (MBT). The effects of baicalein on PNN level, PV neuron activity, and inhibitory synaptic markers (GABRA1, VGAT, and gephyrin) were examined via immunofluorescence (IF). Baicalein-Sema3A interactions were characterised through molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulation (MDS) and microscale thermophoresis (MST). The effects of baicalein on Sema3A/plexinA1 (PLXNA1)/neuropilin-1 (Nrp1) pathway were assessed using western blotting and qRT-PCR. Sema3A was knocked down to establish its link to PD-associated anxiety and PV interneuron dysfunction.Baicalein significantly ameliorated both anxiety-like behaviors and motor deficits in PD rats. It markedly reduced aggrecan expression and enhanced the inhibitory function of PV interneuron, as evidenced by up-regulation of GABRA1, VGAT, and gephyrin in the perirhinal cortex (PRh). Baicalein bound to Sema3A with high affinity (Kd = 0.86 ± 0.12 μM). Moreover, baicalein suppressed Sema3A/PLXNA1/Nrp1 signalling at both transcriptional and protein levels in the PRh. Furthermore, Sema3A knockdown in the PRh recapitulated the anxiolytic effects of baicalein by down-regulating aggrecan expression and rescuing the inhibitory function of PV interneuron, although its effects on motor deficits were limited.This study unravels a novel mechanism by which baicalein alleviates PD-associated anxiety probably via modulation of Sema3A-dependent PV interneuron dysfunction. The findings highlight the potential of Sema3A as a promising therapeutic target for PD-associated anxiety.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Integrin subunit α5 (ITGA5) has been recognized as a potential diagnostic biomarker across multiple cancer types. ITGA5 is upregulated in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). Oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC), with poor prognosis and high mortality, accounts for two-thirds of HNSCC cases. However, the biological functions and underlying mechanisms of ITGA5 in OSCC progression remain unclear. In the present study, we analyzed the expression, prognostic significance, function, and co-expression genes of ITGA5 in HNSCC using a series of public biological information databases, detected the role of ITGA5 in OSCC progression, and discussed the underlying mechanisms. The results indicate that both the mRNA and protein level of ITGA5 were upregulated and related to the prognosis of HNSCC. Knockdown of ITGA5 inhibited cell proliferation, invasion, migration, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). However, overexpression of snail family transcriptional repressor 2 (SNAI2) reversed the function of ITGA5 in regulating OSCC cell proliferation, invasion, migration, and EMT. In conclusion, our study suggests that ITGA5 is upregulated in HNSCC and associated with poor prognosis; functional studies indicate ITGA5 promotes OSCC proliferation and metastasis via SNAI2, indicating that ITGA5 may be a potential therapeutic target for OSCC.Copyright © 2026 Li, Kong, Zhou, Gu, Sun, Ding, Zou, Zhang and Meng.
Diabetic kidney disease (DKD) represents a major complication associated with diabetes mellitus, notably contributing to patient morbidity and mortality. However, early diagnosis of DKD remains challenging due to the lack of clear diagnostic biomarkers. Therefore, in the present study, microarray and RNA‑sequencing data from the Gene Expression Omnibus database were systematically analyzed. Using differential expression and weighted gene co‑expression network analysis, 49 genes with marked expression changes in DKD were identified. Subsequent analyses, including functional enrichment, protein‑protein interaction network construction, machine learning techniques and assessment of immune cell infiltration, led to the identification of three hub genes: Spleen‑associated tyrosine kinase, apoptotic peptidase activating factor 1 and ADAM metallopeptidase domain 10, as promising diagnostic markers, which were further evaluated by receiver operating characteristic curve analysis. Expression changes of the identified hub genes were validated in both DKD mouse models and clinical patient samples. Collectively, the present study provided a novel perspective on the molecular basis of DKD, and highlighted novel candidates for potential diagnostic and therapeutic applications.
The early identification of patients with sepsis among those presenting with suspected infection in the emergency department (ED) remains challenging. Delta-like canonical Notch ligand-1 (DLL-1), a Notch pathway ligand involved in immune and endothelial signaling, has been shown to reflect disease severity and outcomes in ICU-based sepsis cohorts. Its value for early risk stratification at ED presentation is less well defined.We analyzed DLL-1 concentrations in serum samples from a prospectively enrolled ED cohort of adults presenting with clinically suspected acute infection. Blood samples were obtained during the initial clinical assessment. Sepsis was defined according to Sepsis-3 criteria and adjudicated by an expert panel, including evaluation of organ dysfunction within 72 h after presentation. DLL-1 concentrations were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), and diagnostic performance was assessed using AUROC analysis.Among 300 enrolled patients, 74 (24.7%) were classified as having sepsis. DLL-1 concentrations were significantly higher in patients with sepsis than in those without sepsis (median 11,454 vs. 8,085 pg/mL; p < 0.001). DLL-1 demonstrated moderate discriminatory performance for sepsis at ED presentation (AUROC 0.69, 95% CI 0.62-0.76). Performance was lower than that of procalcitonin and NEWS2 but comparable to C-reactive protein and lactate. DLL-1 showed a moderate correlation with SOFA score. Importantly, correlations with CRP and white blood cell count were nonsignificant.When measured at ED presentation, DLL-1 concentrations are elevated in patients with sepsis but showed only moderate diagnostic performance. These findings are consistent with earlier disease stages and lower degrees of organ dysfunction compared with ICU populations. DLL-1 may offer complementary host-response information beyond established biomarkers, but does not support stand-alone use for early sepsis diagnosis and warrants further evaluation within multimodal risk stratification strategies.DRKS00017395.© 2026. The Author(s).
Pseudomonas protegens is an important plant growth-promoting rhizobacterium capable of both suppressing phytopathogens and enhancing plant growth. The ability of P. protegens to withstand desiccation stress is essential for its successful application in biocontrol.This study investigated the effects of potassium (K+) on the desiccation tolerance and adhesion ability of P. protegens through potassium supplementation during cultivation. In addition, transcriptome sequencing and gene overexpression analysis were used to investigate the mechanism by which K+ influences desiccation tolerance in P. protegens.The addition of exogenous K+ was found to significantly enhance the survival of P. protegens under desiccation stress. Transcriptome analysis demonstrated that K+ induced the expression of multiple genes associated with nucleotide sugar biosynthesis and signal transduction, which are closely involved in bacterial stress tolerance. Additionally, K+ was observed to enhance the adhesion capability of P. protegens, thereby contributing to its successful colonization. Further experiments revealed that the GDP-mannose 4,6-dehydratase Gmd, whose expression is upregulated by K+, plays a pivotal role in the desiccation tolerance of P. protegens. The supplementation of K+ and the overexpression of Gmd were both found to markedly enhance the viability of P. protegens in microcapsule formulations under desiccation stress.In summary, this study provides straightforward and effective protective strategies to improve the desiccation tolerance and biocontrol efficacy of P. protegens, which is of great significance for advancing its formulation and application.Copyright © 2026 Wang, Wang, Bi and Wang.
Neuronal growth regulator 1 (NEGR1) is an IgLON cell adhesion molecule significantly associated with depression risk in genome-wide association studies. Since the role of NEGR1 in depression pathophysiology remains incompletely understood, we investigated changes in NEGR1-associated gene expression levels in stress-susceptible male mice exposed to chronic restraint stress.Mice were subjected to 21 consecutive days of restraint stress, and stress-induced maladaptive phenotypes were evaluated by tail suspension, forced swim, splash, and open field tests. After sacrifice, the hippocampi were collected, and the levels of NEGR1-associated genes were assessed by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR).In the stress-exposed group, weight was significantly reduced, and immobility time was significantly higher in the tail suspension and the forced swim tests, while grooming bouts in the splash test were reduced. No changes were observed in the open field test. A z-score normalization integrating all behavioural parameters was applied to classify the animals as resilient or susceptible to restraint stress. In stress-susceptible mice, NEGR1, Fibroblast Growth Factor Receptor 2 (FGFR2), Limbic System-Associated Membrane Protein (LSAMP), and Neurotrimin (NTM) mRNA levels were significantly higher compared to controls, while ADAM Metallopeptidase Domain 10 (ADAM10), a metalloprotease releasing NEGR1 from neuronal membranes, was significantly reduced. Interestingly, ADAM10 expression negatively correlated with the behavioural z-score, whereas NEGR1 and LSAMP expression showed positive correlations.These findings indicate a potential role for NEGR1 in depressive-like behaviors elicited in a stress-susceptible phenotype. Considering NEGR1 genetic association with depression, our results suggest that the NEGR1 pathway may contribute to depression pathophysiology by modulating the interplay between genetic predisposition and exposure to stress as a crucial environmental precipitating factor.© Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
During the healing process of infected wounds, tissue damage caused by pore-forming toxins (PFTs) secreted by bacteria, as well as sustained inflammatory cascades and abnormal collagen expression are key factors leading to delayed wound healing and scar formation. To address this challenge, a multifunctional cell-mimicking liposome (RM-OB@Lips) co-loaded with berberine (BBR) and Nintedanib (Ofev) is engineered, which synergistically integrates toxin neutralization, antibacterial activity, and anti-fibrotic properties to achieve scarless wound repair. The erythrocyte membrane modification enabled efficient α-hemolysin (Hlα) adsorption via ADAM10 (ADAM metallopeptidase domain 10) receptors, resulting in a 68% reduction in toxin levels at infection sites and a significant attenuation of tissue damage and apoptosis. Sustained release of BBR eradicated drug-resistant pathogens while modulating inflammation. In a murine Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)-infected wound model, RM-OB@Lips treatment significantly suppressed proinflammatory cytokine secretion (Tumor necrosis factor-α: 62.6%, Interleukin-1β: 70.0%, Interleukin-6: 57.7%) and markedly reduced inflammatory cell infiltration at infection sites, and the formulation achieved an 82% wound closure rate after 14 days. Furthermore, Ofev inhibited fibroblast-to-myofibroblast transition by downregulating α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA) expression and restored physiological type I/III collagen ratios, yielding regenerated skin morphologically and functionally comparable to normal tissue. Critically, this study provides the first direct evidence linking PFTs clearance to scar prevention, establishing a novel therapeutic paradigm for drug-resistant wound infections through the coordinated actions of detoxification, antimicrobial intervention, and fibrosis suppression.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
BACKGROUND: Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most common, aggressive and poor prognosis malignant brain tumor in adults, that is still orphan of effective medical treatments. The formyl peptide receptor 2 (FPR2), a G protein– coupled receptor implicated in inflammation and cancer biology, has emerged as a potential therapeutic target, yet its role in GBM remains poorly defined. METHODS: We investigated the effects of MR-39, a novel selective FPR2 agonist, in three human GBM cell lines (U87MG, U138-MG, U251-MG). Antiproliferative effects were assessed via CCK-8 assays, cell counts, Ki67 immunostaining, and cell cycle analysis. The specificity of MR-39 was tested using the FPR2 antagonist WRW4 and siRNA-mediated knockdown. Whole-transcriptome analysis, RT-qPCR, Western Blot, woundhealing assays, in vitro tube formation assay, and hypoxia models were used to explore its impact on invasion, angiogenesis, and hypoxia-driven pathways. RESULTS: MR-39 significantly reduced proliferation in all GBM cell lines and induced a non-canonical, p53dependent S-phase arrest associated with the inhibition of both MAPK/ERK and AKT pathways. These effects were reversed by the FPR2 antagonist WRW4 or by FPR2 silencing. Transcriptomic and functional assays revealed downregulation of epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) drivers, including Neuralcadherin (N-cadherin), Snail Family Transcriptional Repressor 2 (Slug), Snail Family Transcriptional Repressor 1 (Snail), matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP2), fibronectin 1 (FN1), and increased Epithelialcadherin (E-cadherin) expression, resulting in impaired migration. MR-39 displays anti-angiogenic and anti-hypoxia related activities, indeed it is able to inhibit Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) and Vascular Endothelial-cadherin (VE-cadherin) expression, to disrupt endothelial network formation, and to attenuate Hypoxia Inducible Factor 1 Subunit Alpha (HIF-1α) stabilization under hypoxic conditions. Notably, MR-39 exhibited significant anti-inflammatory effects, as evidenced by the downregulation of pro-inflammatory genes, including Cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2), Chemokine (C-X-C Motif) Ligand 7. (CXCL-7), Nuclear Factor Kappa B Subunit 1 (NFKB1), Interleukin 1 Beta (IL-1β), and Interleukin 6 (IL6), and the inhibition of NF-κB protein levels. CONCLUSION: This study identifies MR-39 as a potent modulator of FPR2, and identifies its mechanisms of action in GBM, such as anti-tumor activity, including S-phase arrest, inhibition of EMT, and suppression of both angiogenesis and hypoxic adaptation. By directing FPR2 signaling toward an anti-tumor profile, MR-39 represents a promising therapeutic candidate for GBM.
Danggui Buxue Decoction (DBD) has shown potential antitumor effects in a variety of cancers. This study aims to delve into the effects and mechanisms of DBD on the metastasis of triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). The mouse model of TNBC was constructed, and the function of DBD was investigated. The active components and core targets of DBD on TNBC were identified through liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry, network pharmacology, and molecular docking techniques. A set of in vitro experiments was conducted to examine the key components and core targets of DBD that affect the metastasis of TNBC. DBD inhibited the growth and metastasis of TNBC tumors. Formononetin is one of the key active ingredients of DBD, exerts antitumor effects by targeting Snail family transcriptional repressor 2 (SNAI2). The addition of DBD or Formononetin inhibited the malignant activity and reduced the expression of SNAI2. However, this ability of Formononetin was reversed due to the overexpression of the SNAI2 gene. Formononetin inhibits the metastasis of TNBC by downregulating SNAI2. The outcomes offer a basis for the future clinical utilization of DBD and Formononetin in TNBC therapy.© 2025 The Author(s). Food Science & Nutrition published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Intestinal P-glycoprotein (P-gp/ABCB1) is a key barrier limiting xenobiotic absorption, yet its functional decline with aging is poorly understood. Here, we show that gut microbiota dysbiosis contributes to age-associated P-gp deficiency. Integrated multi-omics analyses of human cohorts and murine models identify Odoribacter splanchnicus (O. splanchnicus) as a key commensal species whose depletion impairs intestinal P-gp function. Mechanistically, O. splanchnicus encodes GDP-mannose 4, 6-dehydratase (GMDS) and GDP-L-fucose synthase (TSTA3), enabling microbial biosynthesis of GDP-L-fucose. This metabolite directly promotes phosphorylation of the eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E (eIF4E) and activates c-Jun-driven ABCB1 expression, thereby restoring xenobiotic efflux. These findings establish a microbiota-metabolite-transporter signaling axis that maintains intestinal detoxification, suggesting that targeting either microbes or metabolites could help prevent adverse drug reactions in older adults.© 2025. The Author(s).
Lipid regulation is crucial role in Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis. In AD, microglia show elevated sterol O-acyltransferase 1/Acyl-coenzymeA: Choleseterol Acyltransferase 1 (SOAT1) expression, encoding Acyl-coenzymeA: Cholesterol Acyltransferase 1  (ACAT1), which produces cholesteryl esters (CEs) in lipid droplets. Inhibiting ACAT1 has been shown to reduce amyloid beta (Aβ) pathology, though the mechanism is unclear.We inhibited ACAT1 using avasimibe (AV) in wild-type, triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (TREM2) knockout (KO), and low-density lipoprotein receptor related protein 1 (LRP1) KO mouse BV2 and human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived microglia and measured the impact on Aβ uptake to determine the mechanism through which the inhibition of ACAT1 enhances Aβ uptake.ACAT1 inhibition increased LRP1 levels and soluble TREM2 (sTREM2) release via enhanced TREM2 cleavage by ADAM metallopeptidase domain 10/17 (ADAM10/17). KO of TREM2 or blockade of sTREM2 release prevented AV-enhanced Aβ uptake. This effect was rescued by recombinant sTREM2, but only when LRP1 was present.ACAT1 inhibition promotes microglial Aβ uptake in a sTREM2- and LRP1-dependent manner, offering insights into novel therapeutic strategies for AD.Inhibition of ACAT1, the major enzyme that catalyzes cholesterol storage via esterification enhances microglia-mediated Aβ uptake. Increased Aβ uptake is dependent on the presence of both TREM2 and LRP1. Inhibition of ACAT1 increases cleavage of TREM2 via ADAM10/17 to release sTREM2. Treatment of microglial cells with sTREM2 rescues Aβ uptake in TREM2 KO BV2 cells. Inhibition of ACAT1 promotes Aβ uptake through increased shedding of TREM2, which enhances Aβ uptake through a LRP1-dependent mechanism.© 2025 The Author(s). Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
CD30 positivity serves as a critical diagnostic hallmark for anaplastic lymphoma kinase positive anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALK+ ALCL); however, rare cases with partial or complete loss of CD30 expression present diagnostic challenges. We report a unique case with two morphologically and immunophenotypically distinct subpopulations within the same tumor: A typical CD30-positive component and a CD30-negative counterpart. Comparative genetic analysis revealed overlapping but divergent molecular features, including nucleophosmin 1-ALK (NPM1-ALK) fusion, notch receptor 1 mutations, and differential gene amplifications involving MYC proto-oncogene and BCL2-like 1. These findings offer insights into the regulatory mechanisms of CD30 and highlight that loss of CD30 expression alone should not preclude the diagnosis of ALK-positive ALCL, underscoring the importance of integrated histopathological and molecular evaluation in diagnostically challenging cases. Meanwhile, it provides a basis for optimizing the diagnostic process of clinically suspected cases.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by Scientific Scholar.
Postmenopausal osteoporosis(PMOP) is triggered by estrogen deficiency. Insufficient estrogen lead to bone resorption exceeding bone formation, thereby causing decreased bone mass. Studies have confirmed that the total flavonoids extract from Epimedii Folium(TFE) can ameliorate osteoporosis, while the bone nutrient consisting of chondroitin sulfate(CS) combined with glucosamine hydrochloride(GLcN) exerts therapeutic effects on bone metabolism-related diseases. Since osteoporosis is fundamentally characterized by metabolic disorders, the combination of TFE-bone nutritional supplement(TG) may exert synergistic multi-target regulatory effects, thereby offering a new approach for the prevention and control of PMOP. This study systematically explored the ameliorating effects and mechanisms of TG on PMOP through in vivo and in vitro experiments combined with metabolomics technology. In vivo, a rat model of OVX was established by bilateral ovariectomy. The pharmacodynamic effects of TG on PMOP were verified based on bone histopathological staining, bone mineral density, and physiological indicators. In addition, metabolomics technology was used to quantify urine metabolites to explore the potential biomarkers of PMOP regulated by TG and the associated metabolic networks. In vitro, MC3T3-E1 cells were treated with TFE and TG to screen safe drug doses. Subsequently, osteogenic induction was performed, and the effects and mechanisms of TG on the osteogenic differentiation of MC3T3-E1 cells were studied by ALP staining, ARS staining, and Western blot analysis. Pharmacodynamic results showed that TG reduced the generation of osteoclasts and significantly restored bone mineral density and physiological indicator levels. Metabolomic results indicated that TG alleviated bone loss mainly by intervening with multiple metabolic pathways, including nicotinate and nicotinamide metabolism, histidine metabolism, pyrimidine metabolism, tryptophan metabolism, alanine, aspartate and glutamate metabolism, purine metabolism, vitamin B6 metabolism, etc. In vitro experiments confirmed that TG promoted the proliferation of osteoblasts and osteogenic differentiation via the bone morphogenetic protein-2(BMP-2)/Sma-and Mad-related protein(Smad) signaling pathway. In summary, TG can effectively ameliorate PMOP through a multi-target synergistic effect. This study provides an experimental basis and theoretical support for the clinical application of TG.
Distraction osteogenesis (DO) remains limited by prolonged consolidation and delayed bone union. This study evaluated whether a biodegradable, bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2)-releasing intramedullary implant (IMI) could enhance bone regenerate formation in a rat monofocal femoral lengthening model. We developed a Hybrid Tissue Engineering Construct (HyTEC) comprising a 3D-printed polycaprolactone-β-tricalcium phosphate IMI coated with a BMP-2-loaded hydrogel. Rats underwent standardized lengthening in three groups: control (DO only), IMI (implant without BMP-2), and IMI-BMP2 (BMP-2-releasing implant), with evaluation at postoperative days 31 and 52. The IMI-BMP2 group demonstrated significantly superior osteogenesis, achieving a bone volume fraction of 80 ± 22% at day 31, compared to 35 ± 19% (IMI) and 54 ± 25% (control), indicating accelerated regenerate formation. Radiographic and histological analyses confirmed early, uniform callus formation, while immunohistochemistry revealed elevated osteocalcin expression. Mechanical testing demonstrated restoration of approximately 50% of normal bone strength by day 52. Transcriptomic profiling revealed an exploratory BMP-2-associated regenerative gene signature, suggesting coordinated early-phase regulation of remodeling and metabolic reprogramming. This bioactive implant accelerated bone union, facilitated improved early ambulation consistent with partial mechanical competence restoration, and significantly shortened consolidation time, representing a promising clinically translatable strategy to overcome conventional DO limitations and improve patient outcomes. STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: Distraction osteogenesis is an effective strategy for managing large bone defects, but its clinical use is limited by prolonged consolidation and delayed functional recovery. This study presents a biodegradable intramedullary implant that provides sustained bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2) delivery and markedly accelerates regenerate formation, improves early mechanical strength, and enables earlier weight-bearing in a rat femoral lengthening model. In addition to demonstrating therapeutic efficacy, the work identifies a BMP-2-associated regenerative transcriptional signature linked to remodeling, osteoclast activity, and metabolic reprogramming. These findings establish a clinically translatable biomaterial-based approach to shorten treatment time and improve outcomes in distraction osteogenesis.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Peri-implantitis is a biofilm-associated infectious disorder marked by progressive peri-implant bone loss and remains a major cause of late implant failure. To achieve simultaneous antibacterial treatment and bone regeneration, an injectable charge-complementary hydrogel (BMP-2@HA/ϵ-PL) was fabricated using anionic hyaluronic acid (HA), cationicϵ-poly-L-lysine (ϵ-PL), and positively charged bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2). Its structural and physicochemical features were examined by Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy, scanning electron microscopy (SEM), rheological testing, compression analysis, and swelling-degradation behavior assessments. BMP-2 release was quantified by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.In vitro, cytocompatibility of the BMP-2@HA/ϵ-PL hydrogel with rat bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) was evaluated by CCK-8 and live/dead staining, whereas osteogenic differentiation was assessed by alkaline phosphatase activity, calcium deposition, and expression of osteogenesis-related genes. Antibacterial activityin vitrowas evaluated againstS. aureus(S. aureus) andE. coli(E. coli). The results demonstrated the successful synthesis of the hydrogels, and BMP-2 incorporation optimized the physicochemical properties (a densely packed network, higher compressive strength, and slower degradation) of the BMP-2@HA/ϵ-PL hydrogel, which also showed effective BMP-2 release.In vitroevaluation further indicated that the BMP-2@HA/ϵ-PL hydrogel exhibited favorable cytocompatibility, enhanced osteogenic differentiation of BMSCs due to the synergistic effect of HA and BMP-2, and robust antibacterial effects against bothS. aureusandE. coli. These findings indicate that the injectable BMP-2@HA/ϵ-PL hydrogel features dual antibacterial and osteoinductive functions, offering a promising minimally invasive strategy for peri-implantitis treatment.© 2026 IOP Publishing Ltd. All rights, including for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies, are reserved.
Atherosclerosis is the leading cause of cardiovascular disease and mortality worldwide. The proliferation, migration, and phenotypic switching of vascular smooth muscle cells are central to its pathogenesis. Bortezomib, the first Food and Drug Administration-approved proteasome inhibitor for multiple myeloma, suppresses the proliferation and migration of pulmonary artery smooth muscle cells. However, its effects on aortic vascular smooth muscle cells (AoSMCs) remain unclear.Rat AoSMCs were treated with platelet-derived growth factor-BB (PDGF-BB) or angiotensin II (Ang II), with or without bortezomib. Cytotoxicity, proliferation, and migration were assessed by MTT, wound healing, and Boyden chamber assays. Intracellular and mitochondrial ROS were measured by DCFH-DA and MitoSOX. mRNA and protein levels of bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2), Runt-related transcription factor 2 (Runx2), α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA), phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), and phosphorylated protein kinase B (Akt) were assessed by RT-qPCR and Western blotting. Calcium deposition was assessed using Alizarin Red S staining.Bortezomib attenuated PDGF-BB and Ang II-induced proliferation and migration of AoSMCs accompanied by reduced ROS production and decreased phosphorylation of ERK and Akt. Furthermore, bortezomib suppressed PDGF-BB- and Ang II-induced osteogenic markers (BMP-2 and Runx2) and calcium deposition, while restoring the contractile marker α-SMA, which was inhibited by PDGF-BB and Ang II.Bortezomib attenuated PDGF-BB- and Ang II-induced proliferation, migration, and phenotypic switching of AoSMCs, potentially through reduced ROS production. Mechanistically, bortezomib inhibited ERK and Akt phosphorylation and restored a contractile phenotype. These findings suggest that proteasome inhibition may offer a novel therapeutic approach to modulate vascular remodeling in atherosclerosis.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42541427 is a review article
Neuroinflammation assumes a pivotal role in Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis. Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) regulate neuroinflammation through a competitive endogenous RNA (ceRNA) mechanism. This study aimed to explore the mechanism of SNHG3/miR-128-3p/UBR5 axis in AD associated neuroinflammation. SNHG3, miR-128-3p, and UBR5 levels were recognized by reverse transcription - quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR). In vitro AD model was established by Aβ1-42 stimulation in human microglial cells HMC3 and neuronal cells SK‑N‑SH. Cell apoptosis was detected by flow cytometry. Enzyme - linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and oxidative stress indicators were used to evaluate the neuroinflammatory phenotype. Morris water maze (MWM) test assesses the spatial learning and memory abilities of amyloid precursor protein/presenilin 1 (APP/PS1) mice with AAV-si-SNHG3. Serum SNHG3 was clearly upregulated in AD patients, and negatively related to MMSE score (r = -0.691, P<0.001). SNHG3 had diagnostic potential for AD (AUC=0.847, 95% CI = 0.806-0.888, sensitivity=75.63%, specificity=76.88%). SNHG3 regulates UBR5 expression by sponges miR-128-3p. Silence of SNHG3 inhibited M1 polarization (reducing TNF-α, IL-6, and iNOS), promotes M2 polarization (increasing Arg1, IL-10, and TGF-β), inhibits IL-1β release, suppresses neuronal apoptosis, and mitigates oxidative stress damage (reducing MDA and increasing SOD) via miR-128-3p/UBR5 axis in Aβ-stimulated HMC3 cells. SNHG3 also contributes to Aβ‑induced neuronal apoptosis, inflammation, and oxidative stress in SK‑N‑SH cells. AAV-si-SNHG3 significantly enhances spatial learning and memory abilities of APP/PS1 mice, and inhibits neuroinflammation and oxidative stress in the hippocampus. This study is the first to elucidate that SNHG3 could regulate microglial polarization and neuroinflammation through the SNHG3/miR-128-3p/UBR5 axis.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Acquired resistance to osimertinib poses a major challenge in treating EGFR-mutant lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD). Here, we demonstrate that shikonin, a natural compound from Lithospermum erythrorhizon, synergizes with osimertinib to overcome this resistance by inducing ferroptosis. In osimertinib-resistant LUAD cells (PC9-OR/H1975-OR), the shikonin-osimertinib combination significantly enhances cytotoxicity and suppresses proliferation while triggering ferroptotic events, including reactive oxygen species accumulation, lipid peroxidation, and iron overload alongside glutathione depletion. RNA-sequencing identifies Hes family BHLH transcription factor 1 (HES1) downregulation as crucial to this process. HES1 knockdown replicates the combination's effects, confirming its key role. Mechanistically, ATF3 is identified as a direct transcriptional target of HES1, with HES1 binding to the ATF3 promoter (-786 to -779 nt) to repress its transcription. The shikonin-osimertinib combination relieves this repression, leading to ATF3-mediated suppression of the ferroptosis regulators SLC7A11 and GPX4. In vivo, this combination potently inhibits tumor growth in xenograft models without observable toxicity. Our study reveals a novel HES1/ATF3 axis governing ferroptosis and proposes shikonin as a promising therapeutic adjuvant to overcome osimertinib resistance in LUAD.
Epigenetic dysregulation plays a pivotal role in cancer progression. Unlike HP1α and HP1β, which localize primarily to heterochromatin, HP1γ predominantly occupies euchromatin, suggesting a direct role in transcriptional regulation. Here, we identify HP1γ as a high-risk oncogene in colorectal cancer (CRC). Genome-wide analysis and disease-free survival (DFS) correlation studies revealed that high expression of HP1γ is associated with poor DFS in CRC patients, and we confirmed HP1γ upregulation in colon adenocarcinoma (COAD), the predominant CRC subtype. Functional assays demonstrated that HP1γ overexpression enhances tumor cell proliferation, migration, and colony formation in vitro, while siRNA-mediated knockdown suppressed these phenotypes. In vivo studies showed that HP1γ drives tumor growth, increasing both volume and weight in xenograft models. Mechanistically, HP1γ, via its chromo shadow domain (CSD), physically interacts with the beta-transducin repeat domain (BTD) of recombination signal binding protein for immunoglobulin kappa J region (RBPJ), the transcriptional factor of the Notch pathway. Intriguingly, RBPJ upregulation counteracts HP1γ-induced hyperproliferation, implicating HP1γ as a critical modulator of Notch signaling. Our findings establish HP1γ as a promoter of CRC progression through suppression of Notch pathway components, highlighting its potential as a diagnostic marker or therapeutic target in CRC.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study aims to uncover the role and mechanism of transforming growth factor α (TGFA) on the malignant progression of cervical cancer. Reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and western blotting were used to examine the expression levels of TGFA in cancer cells and tissues. Changes in cell viability, apoptosis, and malignant metastatic ability of cancer cells were detected using methylthiazolyldiphenyl-tetrazolium bromide (MTT), flow cytometry, and Transwell method respectively. Autophagy was evaluated via microtubule-associated proteins light chain 3 (LC3) and sequestosome 1 (p62) expression. A nude mouse xenograft model was used for in vivo validation. RNA pull-down assay was performed to explore the interaction between TGFA and desmoglein 2 (DSG2). These results indicated that TGFA expression was elevated in both cervical cancer tissues and cells. TGFA overexpression promoted cell proliferation, metastasis, and autophagy, whereas TGFA knockdown exerted the opposite effects and inhibited tumor growth. Mechanistically, TGFA bound to DSG2 and affected the downstream MYC oncogene (c-MYC)/ADAM metallopeptidase domain 17 (ADAM17) pathway. In conclusion, TGFA serves as an upstream regulator of the DSG2/c-MYC/ADAM17 axis, which is correlated with autophagy and malignant progression of cervical cancer.
The Six1 (SIX homeobox 1) gene is pivotal in renal and pulmonary development and differentiation. Its dysregulation is implicated in oncogenesis and tumor progression via enhancing cell proliferation and delaying senescence. However, whether or how it functions in the natural aging have not been investigated. To answer this question, we generated Six1 gene knockout mice using CRISPR-Cas9 technology. All Six1 biallelic knockout mice died at birth since the underdeveloped lungs. In Six1+/- mice, the developmental deficiencies in kidneys with vacuolar degeneration and epithelial disruption in renal tubules, as well as hematopoietic interstitial infiltration and lungs with interstitial condensation and alveolar hypoplasia were observed. These developmental deficiencies persist with age and age-dependent phenotypes become more pronounced in Six1+/- mice compared to the wild-type, with upregulation of senescence markers (p16, p53) and senescence-associated secreted factors (e.g., TNF-α, TIMP-2), increased α-SMA expression and collagen deposition, as well as susceptibility to pulmonary fibrosis. Transcriptomic sequencing coupled with bioinformatics analysis indicated that genes with altered expression in Six1+/- mouse lungs showed enrichment in pathways associated with senescence, including the NF-κB and TNF signaling pathways. These transcriptional patterns were also associated with gene sets involved in mitochondrial metabolic processes. Collectively, these findings suggest that Six1 haploinsufficiency is associated with transcriptional signatures linked to aging-related pathways under physiological conditions in mice, providing potential clues for future studies exploring mechanisms of aging.© 2026. The Author(s).
Idiopathic retroperitoneal fibrosis (iRPF) is a rare disease frequently misdiagnosed due to the lack of reliable biomarkers. This study aimed to identify novel autoantibodies to improve the diagnosis and differential diagnosis of iRPF.A total of 33 patients with iRPF, 100 healthy controls, 11 with retroperitoneal sarcoma (RPS) and 74 with other autoimmune diseases were recruited from Renji Hospital from January 2018 to April 2025. Autoantibodies were screened using the Sengenics Immunome Protein Array. Their expression and particularly their IgG4 subclass were then validated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and dot blot assays. Pearson correlation and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analyses were performed with clinical parameters to evaluate their diagnostic performance.Plasma levels of autoantibodies targeting recombination signal binding protein for immunoglobulin kappa J region (RBPJ), tropomyosin alpha-1 (TPM1), nuclear nucleic acid-binding protein (C1D), nucleophosmin 1 (NPM1) and interleukin-1α (IL-1A) were significantly elevated in iRPF patients compared with healthy controls. Among these, anti-TPM1 antibody levels positively correlated with hydronephrosis severity (P < 0.05) and serum creatinine concentrations (P < 0.01), and declined after treatment, suggesting their potential as biomarkers of renal injury and disease activity. Anti-RBPJ antibodies increased after treatment (P < 0.01) and showed a negative correlation with IL-6 (P < 0.05), suggesting the potential for protective antibodies. Anti-C1D antibodies distinguished iRPF from RPS (P < 0.01, AUC = 0.718), and their IgG4 subclass was associated with a Th1/Th2 imbalance and renal impairment. Anti-NPM1 IgG4/IgG ratio was positively correlated with renal injury markers and Th2-type cytokines.This study identified five autoantibodies with diagnostic potential for iRPF, providing a novel basis for early detection, disease monitoring and further mechanistic investigations.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the British Society for Rheumatology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Anaplastic ependymoma (AE) is a rare and aggressive central nervous system tumor that predominantly affects children and remains inadequately characterized at the genomic level. This study aimed to delineate the genomic and demographic landscape of histologically defined AE while identifying potential therapeutic targets. We conducted a retrospective analysis of AE cases from the American Association for Cancer Research (AACR) Project Genomics Evidence Neoplasia Information Exchange (GENIE) repository via cBioPortal, examining recurrent somatic mutations, copy number alterations, mutation co-occurrence, and exploratory sex- and race-based enrichment using descriptive and non-parametric statistics. The most frequent alterations included mutations in the telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) promoter, followed by recurrent changes in lysine methyltransferase 2D (KMT2D), lysine methyltransferase 2A (KMT2A), lysine methyltransferase 2C (KMT2C), E1A binding protein p300 (EP300), additional sex combs like 1 (ASXL1), and SET domain containing 2 (SETD2), indicating significant disruption of chromatin remodeling. Recurrent alterations in tumor protein p53 (TP53), ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM), and cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 2A (CDKN2A) suggested dysregulation of the p53 and DNA damage response pathways. Additionally, alterations in notch receptor 1 (NOTCH1) and notch receptor 2 (NOTCH2) indicated aberrant NOTCH signaling. Neurofibromin 2 (NF2) mutations were observed in male patients, and exploratory subgroup differences emerged across racial groups. Overall, AE appears to be driven by recurrent alterations in chromatin remodeling, p53, DNA damage response, and NOTCH signaling pathways, highlighting these areas as priorities for future biological validation and therapeutic investigation.
Vascular calcification is frequent among patients with chronic kidney disease, in which vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) play a key pathological role. Our previous research revealed that the E3 ubiquitin ligase RNF10 (ring finger protein 10) regulates VSMC hyperproliferation and apoptosis; however, the function of RNF10 in vascular calcification remains unknown.Serum RNF10 levels were assessed in 2 independent cross-sectional chronic kidney disease patient cohorts with vascular calcification. RNF10 expression was assessed in calcified rat aortas and VSMCs. The effects of RNF10 on vascular calcification were evaluated in RNF10 knock-in rats and RNF10 overexpressed VSMCs. To investigate the underlying mechanism, RNA-seq (RNA sequencing), ChIP-seq (chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing), ChIP-qPCR (chromatin immunoprecipitation quantitative PCR), and luciferase reporter assays were performed. Gain- and loss-of-function experiments targeting Rbpjk (recombination signal binding protein for immunoglobulin kappa J region) were conducted in vivo and in vitro.Circulating RNF10 levels were significantly reduced in chronic kidney disease patients with vascular calcification, and RNF10 protein expression was reduced in calcified rat aortas and VSMCs. RNF10 knock-in alleviated vascular calcification without obvious adverse effects on other major organs. In vitro, RNF10 overexpression attenuated calcification and reduced the expression of osteogenic markers. Notably, pharmacological inhibition of the ubiquitin-proteasome system did not impair RNF10's anticalcific activity. Nuclear RNF10 expression was increased in calcified VSMCs, supporting a noncanonical and transcriptional regulatory role. Integrated analyses identified that RNF10 negatively regulated Rbpjk expression during vascular calcification, rather than acting through the ubiquitin-proteasome system. Moreover, viral Rbpjk overexpression partially reversed the protective effects of RNF10 in vivo and in vitro and increased osteogenic marker expression, whereas siRNA-mediated Rbpjk knockdown reduced the marker expression.RNF10 depletion serves as the initiating factor that triggers Rbpjk-driven osteogenic differentiation during chronic kidney disease-associated vascular calcification. The protective role of RNF10 involves Rbpjk negative expression regulation rather than E3 ubiquitin ligase activity. This RNF10-Rbpjk regulatory axis provides a new perspective for developing prevention and treatment strategies for vascular calcification.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (LIHC) is the most common primary liver cancer, with high recurrence and metastasis rates, and its molecular mechanisms remain incompletely understood.The cancer genome atlas (TCGA) database was used to obtain LIHC-related information. TNMplot, gene expression profiling interactive analysis (GEPIA), and kaplan-meier plotter were used for differential gene expression analysis, visualization, and assessing the relationship between genes and patient survival. Reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and western blot (WB) were used to detect gene and protein expression levels. Cell transfection was used for gene knockdown and overexpression. Transwell and wound healing assays were used to evaluate cell migration and invasion. The jaspar database was used to predict transcription factor-gene interactions. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and dual-luciferase assays were used to validate transcription factor-gene binding.Never in mitosis gene a related kinase 2 (NEK2) was highly expressed in LIHC, and its high expression potentially had a negative impact on patient survival. NEK2 knockdown reduced the migration and invasion abilities of LIHC cells, decreased the expression of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) markers neural cadherin (N-cadherin) and vimentin, and increased epithelial cadherin (E-cadherin) expression, whereas NEK2 overexpression showed the opposite effects. E2F transcription factor 1 (E2F1) was also highly expressed in LIHC and positively regulated NEK2, exhibiting similar regulatory effects on LIHC cells. Moreover, NEK2 was positively correlated with Wnt/β-catenin marker catenin beta 1 (CTNNB1), as well as Notch signaling markers notch receptor 1 (NOTCH1), jagged canonical notch ligand 1 (JAG1), HES family BHLH transcription factor 1 (HES1), and HES-related family BHLH transcription factor with YRPW motif 1 (HEY1).The E2F1/NEK2 axis promotes the activation of Wnt/β-catenin and Notch signaling pathways and induces EMT to drive malignant behavior of LIHC cells.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41813374 is a review article
This study aims to elucidate the material basis and mechanism of action of the Aconitum pendulum Busch product processed with highland barley wine against rheumatoid arthritis(RA). UPLC-Q-TOF-MS/MS was employed to preliminarily identify 55 compounds from the product. Through network pharmacology, 19 potential active ingredients and 140 corresponding targets were screened out. The drug targets were intersected with 89 RA targets collected from the OMIM database to yield a set of potential intervention targets. The protein-protein interaction(PPI) network was constructed via STRING and topological analysis was conducted via Cytoscape, which identified eight core targets: PPARG, EGFR, SLC6A3, OPRM1, PRKCA, CYP2D6, HTR1A, and HMGCR. Gene Ontology(GO) functional and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes(KEGG) pathway enrichment analyses performed in the Metascape database revealed that these targets were significantly enriched in processes such as TRP channels, the phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase(PI3K)-protein kinase B(Akt) signaling pathway, and neutrophil extracellular traps(NETs) formation. An integrated &quot;drug-ingredient-disease-target-pathway&quot; network was constructed, which selected seven core ingredients(dehydrolucidusculine, linoleic acid, pyraconitine, 16-epipyroaconitine, delphinine, 1-monopalmitin, and songorine) for molecular docking with the eight core targets. The results demonstrated favorable binding activity between each ingredient and the targets. Animal experiments showed that the A. pendulum product processed with highland barley wine alleviated joint swelling and inflammatory pathological changes of synovial tissue in the rat model of adjuvant-induced arthritis(AA) in a dose-dependent manner. In terms of the serum inflammatory cytokine levels, it downregulated the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor-α(TNF-α), interleukin-1β(IL-1β), interleukin-17A(IL-17A), and interleukin-6(IL-6). Furthermore, the product significantly reduced the phosphorylation levels of PI3K and its downstream signaling molecule Akt of knee synovial tissue in the rat model of AA. In conclusion, this study preliminarily reveals that the A. pendulum product processed with highland barley wine may exert anti-RA effects through multi-ingredient, multi-target, and multi-pathway mechanisms, particularly by regulating the PI3K-Akt signaling pathway and inflammatory responses.
Bimekizumab inhibits interleukin-17A and interleukin-17F. Clinical trials have shown its efficacy in moderate--to-severe plaque psoriasis; however, real-world effectiveness and safety data remain limited.To evaluate the real-world effectiveness and safety of bimekizumab in patients with moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis over 16 weeks in routine clinical practice.We conducted a single-centre retrospective observational study involving adults diagnosed with moderate-to--severe plaque psoriasis who were administered bimekizumab (320 mg subcutaneously every 4 weeks for 16 weeks). The primary outcomes assessed were ≥90% improvement in Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI 90) and complete clearance (PASI 100) at week 16. Secondary outcomes included ≥ 50% improvement in PASI, ≥75% improvement in PASI, Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI) scores and the incidence of adverse events.In total, 86 patients were enrolled. Their mean (SD) age was 44.4 (12.3) years, 53% (n = 46) were women and 58% (n = 50) had prior biologic exposure. At week 16, 71% (n = 61) achieved PASI 90 and 66% (n = 57) achieved PASI 100. By week 4, 50% (n = 43) of the patients had achieved PASI 90. Patients who were biologic-naïve had higher PASI 90 rates than patients who were biologic-experienced (75% vs. 60%; P = 0.08). The complete clearance rates were 71%, 63% and 75% for scalp, nail and genital psoriasis, respectively. The mean (SD) DLQI decreased from 15.8 (6.2) at baseline to 3.2 (2.4) at week 16. Adverse events occurred in 33% of patients (n = 28), most commonly mild oral candidiasis (n = 15; 17%). No serious adverse events or treatment discontinuations were observed.Bimekizumab demonstrated high efficacy in the real-world treatment of moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis, with a rapid onset of action and improvement in difficult-to-treat areas. The safety profile was favourable.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of British Association of Dermatologists.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42538068 is a review article
Among inflammatory mediators, interleukin-17A (IL-17A) has emerged as a potential contributor to AD pathogenesis, although its role remains incompletely defined. Notably, sex differences are evident in AD, with males exhibiting earlier mortality and greater cognitive deficits during aging and preclinical stages compared to females. While hormonal influences have been widely studied, the contribution of sex chromosome complement was suggested critical and remains poorly understood. Here, we investigated the impact of sex chromosome on cognitive function and neuroinflammation using amyloid and tau mouse models. Female Tg2576 and PS19 mice were crossed with XY* males to generate XX, XO, XY, and XXY genotypes, enabling separation of X from Y chromosomal effect. Behavioral assessments, including fear conditioning, novel object recognition, and Barnes maze, revealed that XY mice exhibited significantly greater cognitive impairment compared to XX and XXY counterparts. The same pattern was seen in IL-17A levels, indicating an effect of X chromosome instead of Y. Amyloid-β and phosphorylated tau pathology by immunohistochemistry and Elisa confirmed robust disease-associated accumulation in Tg2576 and PS19 mice, but showed no differences across sex chromosome complements. Collectively, our study identifies X chromosome dosage as a key modulator of cognitive resilience and IL-17A-linked neuroinflammation in AD models. Future studies focused on understanding how X-linked factors regulate IL17 mediated neuroinflammatory pathways could reveal novel therapeutic targets for AD.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Hypertrophic scar (HTS) formation following severe trauma or burns remains a significant clinical challenge due to the lack of effective treatments, imposing substantial psychological burdens. Chronic inflammation is a key driver of HTS pathogenesis. Interleukin-17A (IL-17A), a critical inflammatory cytokine implicated in organ fibrosis, may play a role in HTS formation, but its function and mechanism in cutaneous scarring are not well defined.We collected 10 pairs of HTSs and normal skin tissues from patients with burns and examined the expression of IL-17A and Wnt signaling pathway-related molecules by immunohistochemistry and Western blot. These findings were further verified in rabbit ear scar experiments.IL-17A protein expression was significantly higher in HTSs than in normal skin, whereas Wnt signaling pathway-related molecules were downregulated in the HTS group. In rabbit ear scar models, Wnt signaling inhibitors aggravated HTS development, whereas activators partially inhibited HTS formation.Our findings demonstrate that IL-17A may target cyclin D1 downstream of the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway. These findings represent a promising therapeutic target for the prevention and treatment of HTSs.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. on behalf of The American Society of Plastic Surgeons.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42524831 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42522956 is a review article
This study aimed to investigate the antiinfi ammatory effects and potential molecular mechanisms of star anise-cinnamon compound essential oil (SCEO) against multidrug-resistant Salmonella Thompson (MDR S. Thompson) infection in mice.An intestinal infection model was established in mice by oral gavage of MDR S. Thompson (1×109 CFU/mL) for two consecutive days. Experimental animals were randomly assigned to a blank group, a model group, a levofioxacin group (positive control), and SCEO low-, medium-, and high-dose groups (100, 200, and 400mg/kg, respectively).SCEO intervention significantly alleviated clinical symptoms in infected mice, restored pathological damage in the liver and ileum, and normalized the liver index. Gas chromatography-mass spectrom- etry (GC-MS) analysis identified trans-cinnamaldehyde and trans-anethole as the primary active components of SCEO. Network pharmacology and molecular docking analyses revealed strong binding affinities between these components and Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), RELA, and mitogen-activated protein kinase 14 (MAPK14) (Vina score < -5.0 kcal/mol). Further in vivo and in vitro experiments demonstrated that SCEO significantly downregulated the mRNA expression of key cytokines, including Tlr4, interleukin-6 (Il6), tumor necrosis factor (Tnf), and interleukin-17A (Il17a), and suppressed the overactivation of the TLR4/nuclear factor kappa-B (NFĸB)/MAPK signaling pathway. SCEO effectively alleviated Salmonella-induced infiammatory damage, a protective process potentially me- diated through the modulation of the TLR4/NFĸB/MAPK signaling axis. These findings provide a theoretical basis for the development of SCEO as a natural, plant-derived anti-infective agent.Copyright © 2026 Xu, Zhang, Lin, Luan, Shao, Chen, Liang, Huang, Zhang, Tao, Tang, Huang, Huang, Li and Chen.
Aortic dissection (AD) is a life-threatening vascular disorder characterized by medial degeneration and phenotypic switching of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs). While integrin subunit alpha 5 (ITGA5) has been implicated in VSMC plasticity, the upstream molecular mechanisms governing its regulation remain poorly defined.Publicly available transcriptomic datasets were analyzed using differential expression analysis and WGCNA to identify hub genes associated with AD. The UbiBrowser database was employed to predict potential E3 ubiquitin ligases targeting ITGA5. In vitro, human aortic smooth muscle cells (HASMCs) were stimulated with Angiotensin II to mimic pathological conditions, and subjected to gain and loss-of-function assays, protein stability analysis, and co-immunoprecipitation in combination with HEK-293T cells. A BAPN-induced AD mouse model was utilized to evaluate the in vivo studies. Protein and gene expression were assessed by Western blotting, qPCR, and immunofluorescence.ITGA5 promoted the phenotypic switch of HASMCs toward a synthetic/inflammatory state. Deltex E3 ubiquitin ligase 1 (DTX1) directly interacted with ITGA5 and promoted its ubiquitination at lysine 137, leading to proteasome-dependent degradation. DTX1 overexpression suppressed ITGA5 levels, maintained contractile marker expression, and inhibited the synthetic/inflammatory phenotype of HASMCs. In vivo, DTX1 expression was downregulated and ITGA5 upregulated in BAPN-treated aortas, whereas DTX1 overexpression reduced ITGA5 levels, preserved medial integrity, and attenuated AD progression.This study identifies DTX1 as a novel E3 ubiquitin ligase that promotes ITGA5 degradation, thereby maintaining the contractile phenotype of VSMCs and limiting AD progression. Targeting the DTX1-ITGA5 axis may offer a promising therapeutic approach for AD.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Stimulator of interferon genes (STING) signaling, as a pivotal DNA-sensing mechanism, orchestrates antiviral and antitumor immunity through the induction of type I interferon response. Precise modulation of STING signaling is critical for maintaining immune homeostasis, yet its regulatory landscape has not been fully elucidated. Here, we identify the Deltex E3 ubiquitin ligase 2 (DTX2) as a positive regulator of STING-type I interferon response. Loss of Dtx2 in mouse macrophages and embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) markedly impairs the type I interferon production upon double-stranded DNA (dsDNA) or cyclic guanosine monophosphate (GMP)-adenosine monophosphate (AMP) (cGAMP) stimulation. Correspondingly, Dtx2-/- mice exhibit more susceptibility to DNA viral infection compared to its counterparts. Mechanistically, DTX2 interacts with STING to promote K63-linked ubiquitination at residue K236 and K370, which facilitates the translocation of STING from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) to the Golgi apparatus and activates downstream signaling cascades. Furthermore, we demonstrate that DTX2 potentiates STING-mediated type I interferon response in multiple tumor cell lines, and enhances anti-tumor immunity in murine head and neck cancer models. Collectively, our work uncovers DTX2 as a previously unrecognized regulator of STING, revealing a ubiquitin-dependent mechanism for fine-tuning innate immune response with implications for combating infections and cancer.© 2026. The Author(s).
Mucoepidermoid carcinoma (MEC) is a common malignant salivary gland tumor but rarely seen in the tonsil.We report a case of a 68-year-old woman who presented with a 1.0 cm left neck mass. Laryngoscopy revealed a 1.0 cm nodule in the left tonsil, extending into the base of tongue (BOT). Biopsies from the left tonsil and left BOT revealed similar histology with fragments of minor salivary gland tumor composed of predominantly clear cells, squamous cells, and focal mucous cells, morphologically favoring MEC. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) revealed that the tumor was positive for mastermind-like transcriptional coactivator 2 (MAML2) (11q21) gene rearrangement, confirming the diagnosis of MEC. The tumor was resected by transoral robotic assisted surgery (TORS) with negative margins. The final diagnosis was high grade MEC with a tumor size of 4.0 cm (pT2N1). The patient underwent post-surgical adjuvant radiotherapy. At four-year follow up, the patient is doing well and has no signs of recurrence or metastasis.This case report illustrates, to the best of our knowledge, the first documented case of using TORS for MEC of the BOT involving both lingual and palatine tonsils with four years of disease-free survival, despite high histologic grade. Our case sheds light on the use of TORS for improved long-term outcome and preserved oropharyngeal functions for patients with oropharyngeal MEC.Copyright © 2026 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
Sepsis, a life-threatening systemic inflammatory condition, frequently leads to myocardial injury-a complication for which current therapeutic strategies demonstrate limited efficacy. Here, we explored the potential role and therapeutic implications of Deltex E3 ubiquitin ligase 2 (DTX2) in sepsis-induced myocardial injury. Our results demonstrated that DTX2 expression was significantly upregulated in septic patients, mice models, and lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated cardiomyocytes. Notably, Dtx2 deficiency markedly aggravated sepsis-induced myocardial hypertrophy, fibrosis, ferroptosis, and mitochondrial dysfunction. In contrast, cardiac-specific overexpression of Dtx2 improved cardiac function in vivo, highlighting its protective role in septic cardiomyopathy. Mechanistically, DTX2 was found to directly interact with transferrin receptor 1 (TfR1) through its DTC domain, mediating K27-linked ubiquitination at lysine 39, which facilitated TfR1 degradation and regulated iron metabolism. Importantly, pharmacological inhibition of ferroptosis counteracted the detrimental effects of Dtx2 deficiency in both LPS-challenged cells and mice. Moreover, genetic silencing of TfR1 considerably suppressed ferroptosis and ameliorated myocardial injury in Dtx2 knockout septic mice. The findings indicate that DTX2 exerts protective effects against abnormal iron accumulation and ferroptosis, thereby alleviating myocardial injury induced by sepsis. These insights could have therapeutic implications for patients with reduced DTX2 expression.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to ADMC Associazione Differenziamento e Morte Cellulare.
Mucoepidermoid carcinoma (MEC) is a malignant tumor primarily composed of epidermoid, mucous, and intermediate cells. While it predominantly occurs in the salivary glands, MEC can also develop in the lungs, esophagus, breast, and thymus. Thymic MEC is rare, accounting for 2-3% of primary thymic malignancies. The primary clinical characteristic is incidental discovery in asymptomatic individuals. Due to the rarity of thymic MEC, much of the literature consists of case reports, and no standardized treatment protocol exists. Surgical resection is the primary treatment for MEC.This report presents a case of thymic MEC identified incidentally during a routine physical examination in an asymptomatic patient. Chest computed tomography (CT) revealed a well-defined, rounded cystic-solid mass measuring approximately 61 mm × 32 mm in the right anterior mediastinum, with mild enhancement. Following comprehensive assessment to rule out surgical contraindications, the mass was resected. Postoperative pathology indicated a low-grade primary MEC, positive for epithelial membrane antigen (EMA), cytokeratin (CK)19, p63, CK7, cluster of differentiation (CD)5, and mucicarmine/Alcian blue (AB)-periodic acid-Schiff (PAS) staining. Ki-67 was ~5%, and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis confirmed mastermind-like transcriptional coactivator 2 (MAML2) gene rearrangement. The patient received no additional treatment.This report details a rare case of thymic MEC. The diagnosis required pathology and molecular testing. MAML2 rearrangement suggests a better prognosis; further research is needed to elucidate its pathogenesis and improve its treatment.© AME Publishing Company.
This case report enhances the medical literature by presenting a rare instance of primary esophageal mucoepidermoid carcinoma (MEC), highlighting its unique histological features and the challenges in diagnosis that can arise due to its similarities with other esophageal cancers.A 58-year-old female presented with dysphagia and was initially misdiagnosed with squamous cell carcinoma. Upon further evaluation, upper gastrointestinal endoscopy revealed a 1.5 cm lesion in the distal esophagus. The patient underwent partial esophagectomy, and histopathological examination confirmed the diagnosis of primary esophageal MEC with no lymph node metastasis. The patient has been under observation for 5 months post-surgery without adjuvant therapy.Awareness of MEC is essential for accurate diagnosis and management due to its rarity and potential for misdiagnosis.©The Author(s) 2025. Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights reserved.
The present study reports the case of a 43-year-old female patient who underwent surgical excision of a right breast mass. Gross examination revealed a cystic lesion. Histopathological examination demonstrated a solid cystic tumor with intraluminal papillary projections. The neoplasm was composed of mildly atypical intermediate, epidermoid, mucinous and eosinophilic cells, exhibiting cribriform glandular patterns, and microcystic structures containing mucinous or eosinophilic secretions. Peritumoral lymphoid hyperplasia was observed in adjacent mammary gland tissue. Immunohistochemical results showed that p63, cytokeratin (CK) 5/6 and CK7 exhibited zonal positive staining; GATA binding protein 3 was positive; S-100 and SYN were negative; the estrogen receptor positive rate was 20%; progesterone receptor was negative; human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 was 1+; and the Ki-67 positive index was ~10%. Fluorescence in situ hybridization showed that the mastermind like transcriptional coactivator 2 gene was rearranged. The pathological diagnosis was low-grade mucoepidermoid carcinoma of the right breast. After diagnosis, the patient underwent a right breast-conserving surgery, right axillary sentinel lymph node biopsy and right breast fascial glandular flap plasty. Adjuvant radiotherapy was administered without endocrine therapy. Postoperative surveillance over 8 months showed no evidence of locoregional recurrence or distant metastasis.Copyright: © 2025 Xie et al.
Pulmonary mucoepidermoid carcinomas (PMECs) are rare malignancies that often present with non-specific pulmonary symptoms and obstructive pneumonia. We present a 19-year-old female who presented with two years of recurrent pneumonia, dyspnea, and left-sided pleuritic pain. Review of serial ED imaging would identify a persistent lung infiltrate located in the left upper lobe. Bronchoscopy with extensive pathology analysis would confirm MAML2-positive stage IB mucoepidermoid carcinoma. The patient underwent curative treatment consisting of a sleeve lobectomy and was placed under close follow-up and monitoring. This case emphasizes the importance of having a high clinical index of suspicion with symptoms indicative of obstructive pneumonia in otherwise healthy young adults.© 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
The clear-cell variant of mucoepidermoid carcinoma (MEC) is a rare subtype, with pediatric cases being extremely rare. A 13-year-old girl presented with a lesion on the right palate, which had been noted for 3 months. The patient reported pain, rupture, and bleeding of the tumor for nearly a month. Computed tomography scans revealed a quasi-circular soft tissue mass on the right hard palate. Microscopically, the tumor cells showed predominant clear cells and scattered mucous cells. The tumor cells were positive for cytokeratin (CK), CK7, CK5/6, epithelial membrane antigen, P63, and P40. A rearrangement of mastermind-like transcriptional coactivator 2 (MAML2) (11q21) gene was identified in the tumor cells by fluorescence in situ hybridization. The histological features supported a diagnosis of clear-cell variant of MEC, medium grade, with a tumor stage of pT1N0M0. The patient underwent a complete excision of the palatal mass followed by superficial bone removal. After surgery, the patient recovered well and was recurrence-free at the 1-year follow-up. Based on repeated pathological evaluations, we report this rare pediatric case of a clear-cell variant of MEC of the palate. Only surgical resection resulted in a favorable outcome.© 2025 Wang and Wang.
Acute lung injury (ALI) is characterized by inflammation of the lungs, leading to impaired gas exchange and respiratory distress. This study aimed to investigate the mechanisms underlying the role of Krüppel-like factor 14 (KLF14) in ALI pathogenesis.Protein and gene expression levels were quantified using quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and western blot. Cell viability and pyroptosis were assessed by Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) and flow cytometry. Interleukin (IL)-18 and IL-1 β levels were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), while lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activity was evaluated with a commercial assay kit. The interaction between Deltex E3 ubiquitin ligase 3-like (DTX3L) and KLF14 or nucleotide-binding domain like receptor 3 (NLRP3) was analyzed using chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP), co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP), and dual-luciferase reporter assay.BEAS-2B cells treated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) exhibited reduced viability and elevated pyroptosis-related markers. Notably, KLF14 upregulation suppressed NLRP3-mediated pyroptosis in LPS-induced cells. Similarly, DTX3L overexpression attenuated pyroptosis in LPS-treated BEAS-2B cells. Mechanistically, KLF14 enhanced DTX3L transcription, and DTX3L promoted NLRP3 degradation via ubiquitination. Furthermore, KLF14 upregulation inhibited NLRP3-driven pyroptosis by inducing DTX3L expression.Upregulation of KLF14 inhibited NLRP3-mediated pyroptosis through DTX3L activation, thereby improving sepsis-induced acute lung injury.Copyright © 2026 Termedia.
Gastric cancer remains a leading cause of cancer mortality worldwide, largely due to its high metastatic potential driven by epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Here, we identify Deltex E3 ubiquitin ligase 3L (DTX3L) as a previously unrecognized tumor suppressor in gastric cancer. DTX3L expression is markedly reduced in metastatic and mesenchymal-type gastric cancers and positively correlates with favorable patient prognosis. Functional analyses in cell lines, organoids and animal models demonstrate that DTX3L depletion promotes gastric cancer cell migration, invasion, stem-like properties and metastasis, whereas its overexpression exhibits opposite effects. Mechanistically, DTX3L acts as an E3 ubiquitin ligase that directly interacts with and ubiquitinates SNAI1, a master EMT regulator, leading to its GSK-3β dependent proteasomal degradation. Loss of DTX3L stabilizes SNAI1 and enhances EMT and stem-like phenotypes. Moreover, we uncover that TGF-β1-induced miR-135b-5p downregulates DTX3L, forming a regulatory axis that promotes EMT. Collectively, our findings reveal a novel DTX3L-SNAI1 signaling pathway governing EMT and metastasis in gastric cancer, providing mechanistic insight and suggesting DTX3L as a potential prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Ovarian cancer is the third most prevalent malignancy of the female reproductive system. Due to its insidious early symptoms, most patients are diagnosed at an advanced stage and have a poor prognosis, highlighting an urgent need for more effective therapeutic strategies. Deltex E3 ubiquitin ligase 3 L (DTX3L), also known as B-lymphoma and BAL-associated protein (BBAP), is an E3 ubiquitin ligase reported to be critical in the progression of various tumors. However, the specific mechanisms underlying the role of DTX3L in ovarian cancer tumorigenesis and progression remain poorly understood. Bioinformatics tools, including GEPIA, GEO, TCGA, Kaplan-Meier Plotter, JASPAR, and STRING, were employed to analyze the expression profiles of DTX3L and 2’-5’-oligoadenylate synthetase 3 (OAS3) in ovarian cancer tissues and normal ovarian tissues, as well as to predict correlations between DTX3L and the JAK1/STAT1/OAS3 signaling axis. At the tissue level, immunohistochemistry (IHC), polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and Western blotting (WB) were conducted to detect the expression of DTX3L and OAS3 in normal ovarian tissues, benign ovarian tumors, borderline ovarian tumors, and ovarian cancer tissues. At the cellular level, ovarian cancer cell lines (A2780, SKOV3, and OVCAR3)assays, CCK-8 assays, wound healing assays, Transwell assays, TUNEL assays, and flow cytometry were performed to assess the effects of altered DTX3L expression on ovarian cancer cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and chemoresistance. Immunofluorescence (IF), PCR, and WB were employed to examine the regulatory effects of DTX3L knockdown or overexpression on OAS3 expression. Additionally, WB was used to evaluate the activation status of the JAK1/STAT1 pathway following manipulation of DTX3L expression. A rescue experiment was conducted to investigate changes in OAS3 expression and the biological behaviors of ovarian cancer cells after simultaneous DTX3L overexpression and inhibition of JAK1 activation. In vivo, nude mouse xenograft models of ovarian cancer with stable DTX3L knockdown or overexpression were established. Tumor growth curves were plotted, and IHC, PCR, and WB were performed to measure DTX3L and OAS3 expression levels in xenograft tumors from each group. DTX3L and OAS3 were highly expressed in ovarian cancer tissues and cell lines. High DTX3L expression promoted proliferation, migration, and invasion of ovarian cancer cells, enhanced resistance to cisplatin, and inhibited apoptosis. Mechanistically, DTX3L upregulated OAS3 expression by activating the JAK1/STAT1 signaling pathway. Inhibition of JAK1/STAT1 signaling partially reversed the oncogenic effects induced by DTX3L overexpression. In vivo experiments showed that DTX3L knockdown suppressed ovarian cancer growth and decreased OAS3 expression in xenograft tumors. DTX3L acts as a potential oncogene in ovarian cancer by inducing OAS3 overexpression via activation of the JAK1/STAT1 signaling pathway, thereby promoting ovarian cancer progression and cisplatin resistance. Collectively, DTX3L holds promise as a biomarker for ovarian cancer diagnosis and prognosis, and represents a novel therapeutic target for ovarian cancer treatment.
Deltex E3 ubiquitin ligase 3L (DTX3L) is a well-established ubiquitin ligase implicated in various cancers, but its role in nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) progression remains elusive. In this study, we confirmed for the first time that DTX3L was highly expressed in C666-1 and NPC/HK1 NPC cells. DTX3L overexpression promoted NPC cell proliferation, invasion, and migration. Conversely, DTX3L knockdown suppressed these malignant phenotypes. Notably, DTX3L activated the β-catenin pathway, as evidenced by increased β-catenin nuclear translocation, increased transcriptional activity, and elevated expression of its downstream target c-Myc. Mechanistically, we identified an upstream regulatory axis in which the oncogenic long noncoding RNA H19 acted as a molecular sponge for miR-423-5p, thereby alleviating the miR-423-5p-mediated repression of DTX3L. Dual-luciferase reporter assays confirmed that miR-423-5p directly targeted both DTX3L and H19, supporting the presence of a competitive endogenous RNA (ceRNA) network. Furthermore, rescue experiments demonstrated that DTX3L knockdown largely abolished the proliferative advantage conferred by H19 overexpression. Collectively, the results of our study revealed that the H19/miR-423-5p/DTX3L axis is a novel ceRNA-driven mechanism that promotes NPC progression via activation of β-catenin signaling.
Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) constitute a critical class of regulatory molecules involved in cancer biology and play pivotal roles in tumor initiation and progression. Nevertheless, the biological functions of many newly identified lncRNAs in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), as well as their potential therapeutic relevance, remain insufficiently characterized. In this study, high-throughput sequencing analysis of paired NSCLC tumor tissues and adjacent non-tumorous samples revealed that LINC00973 is significantly upregulated in tumor specimens. Moreover, elevated LINC00973 expression was found to be closely associated with poor clinical outcomes in patients with NSCLC. Functional assays showed that LINC00973 knockdown inhibits NSCLC cell proliferation, migration, and invasion while inducing apoptosis, whereas overexpression produces opposite effects. These observations were confirmed in vivo, where LINC00973 depletion markedly suppressed tumor growth and metastasis. Mechanistically, LINC00973 interacts with and stabilizes deltex E3 ubiquitin ligase 3L (DTX3L), preventing its ubiquitination-mediated degradation and activating the AKT signaling pathway. Therapeutically, RGD-modified exosome-mediated delivery of LINC00973 siRNA significantly inhibited NSCLC progression in mouse models. Moreover, a synthetic biology-based strategy enabling hepatic production of exosomes carrying LINC00973-targeting siRNA achieved robust anti-tumor effects. Together, these findings establish LINC00973 as an oncogenic lncRNA that promotes NSCLC progression via DTX3L stabilization and highlight LINC00973 as a promising therapeutic target.© 2026 The Author(s). Smart Medicine published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH on behalf of Wenzhou Institute, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences.
Special AT-rich sequence-binding protein 2 (SATB2) is a nuclear matrix-associated protein with a pivotal role in glioblastoma (GBM) progression. However, the mechanisms underpinning aberrant SATB2 expression remain elusive. Here, we identify the ubiquitin specific peptidase 10 (USP10) as a deubiquitinase and the deltex E3 ubiquitin ligase 3 L (DTX3L) as a ubiquitin ligase of SATB2 in glioma stem cells (GSCs). USP10 and DTX3L regulate SATB2 ubiquitination at the K266 residue through mutually exclusive interactions and opposing activities. USP10, enriched in GSCs, is induced by transcription factor YY2. Knockdown of USP10 or overexpression of DTX3L markedly downregulates SATB2, resulting in the inhibition of GSC self-renewal and GBM growth, which can be rescued by the overexpression of SATB2. Importantly, pharmacological inhibition of USP10 by Wu-5 effectively suppresses tumor growth. These findings highlight the antagonistic roles of USP10 and DTX3L in the regulation of GBM malignancy and propose USP10 as a potential therapeutic target.© 2025. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 40695431 is a review article
Dopaminergic neuron loss caused by microglia activation is an important pathological factor of Parkinson's disease (PD). Previously, we reported that small extracellular vesicle from adipose derived stem cells (ADSC-sEVs) could inhibit the activation of microglia and protect neuron apoptosis from microglia activation. However, whether ADSC-sEVs have protective effect on the motor deficit of PD mouse and the exact mechanism remains unknown. In this study, ADSC-sEVs were delivered to experimental model of Parkinson's disease by tail vein injection to explore the in vivo effect of ADSC-sEVs on PD. Next, the potential key microRNA in ADSC-sEVs was screened by RNA sequencing (RNA-seq), and the exact mechanism was further explored. We found that ADSC-sEVs greatly alleviated the activation of microglia and reduced the loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra of PD mice, the motor deficit was also significantly improved. By RNA-seq analysis, miR-100-5p was verified as a potential microRNA in this process, because knockdown of miR-100-5p in ADSC-sEVs weakened the protective effect of ADSC-sEVs on PD mouse as well as the anti-inflammatory effect on microglia activation. Finally, we found that miR-100-5p could target Deltex E3 ubiquitin ligase 3 L (DTX3L) and suppress its expression, which then decreased the expression and phosphorylation of Signal Transducers and Activators of Transcription 1 (STAT1), as well as alleviating the activation of microglia. Our findings illustrate that ADSC-sEVs are an effective therapy for PD, and it could be a promising therapy for the treatment of PD.Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Deltex E3 ubiquitin ligase 3 (DTX3) was identified as a tumor suppressor in human cancers. However, whether DTX3 could suppress the progression of bladder cancer (BC) remains unknown. In this study, DTX3 downregulation in BC tissues was confirmed at mRNA and protein levels, and decreased DTX3 expression was associated with poor prognosis. DTX3 knockdown triggered aberrant epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT), principally via downregulation of E-cadherin and upregulation of N-cadherin, MMP9, Snail, and Slug. Gain- and loss-of-function assays indicated that DTX3 acted as a suppressor gene by inhibiting the migration and invasion of BC cells both in vivo and in vitro. Further analysis revealed that DTX3 inhibited Notch signaling pathway activity, and the Notch signaling inhibitor DAPT could partially reverse the effects of DTX3 knockdown on the metastatic abilities of BC cells. Mechanically, DTX3 bind to Notch intracellular domain (NICD) via its C-terminal RING finger domain (RFD), ubiquitinated, and degraded NICD, resulting in repression of the Notch pathway. Our findings reveal the key role of DTX3 in binding to NICD, promoting its ubiquitination and protein degradation, and suppressing the activation of the Notch signaling pathway to inhibit BC invasion and metastasis.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Appendiceal cancer (AC) is a rare malignancy that often presents at advanced stages with significant histological variability influencing clinical outcomes. Precise genomic profiling is essential for accurate diagnosis and personalized patient management. This study interrogated DNA from appendiceal tumor tissue, buffy coat cells, and the cell-free DNA component of plasma using a 523-gene panel for comprehensive genomic profiling (CGP) to identify cancer-related genetic mutations in tumor and blood, evaluate tumor mutation burden, and determine genetic markers associated with histologic grade.A total of 73 patients provided blood samples comprising cell-free DNA (cfDNA) and germline buffy coat cells (bcDNA) for analysis compared with tumor tissues available from 56 of these patients. Concordance of mutations between matched tumor tissue and plasma samples (n = 51) was assessed and tumor-specific and germline variants were classified using OncoKB™ clinical criteria to delineate oncogenic and therapeutically actionable variants [level 1 mutations with U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved therapy]. Additionally, cfDNA concentrations were tested for association with clinical and pathologic features and oncologic outcome including disease-specific (DSS) and progression-free (PFS) survival.Circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) from plasma cell-free DNA demonstrated high concordance with tumor genomic profiling, reaching 98.4% concordance [median, interquartile range (IQR) 13.5, 21.5] overall and 85.7% (IQR 64.6, 100) for therapeutically actionable level 1 mutations. Prevalent appendiceal tumor-specific mutations included KRAS proto-oncogene, GTPase (KRAS) (41%), GNAS complex locus (GNAS) (30%), tumor protein p53 (TP53) (30%), and SMAD family member 4 (SMAD4) (29%). Tumor-specific TP53, SMAD4, and spectrin alpha, erythrocytic 1 (SPTA1) mutations strongly correlated with intermediate and high-grade histology, whereas GNAS mutations predominated in low-grade tumors. Germline analysis identified coding mutations shared among this patient cohort in notch receptor 4 (NOTCH4) (55%) and BRCA1 associated RING domain 1 (BARD1) (48%) genes, with zinc finger homeobox 3 (ZFHX3) (29%) and adhesion G protein-coupled receptor A2 (ADGRA2), DNA polymerase epsilon (POLE), and transcription factor 3 (TCF3) mutations (all = 23%) specifically enriched in intermediate and high-grade AC. Both histological grade and cfDNA stratified by concentration tertiles independently predicted progression-free and disease-specific survival. Plasma samples exhibited consistently lower variant allele frequencies than solid tumors, limiting sensitivity for discovery of novel mutations exclusively from plasma.This study supports integrating comprehensive ctDNA assays into standard diagnostic and treatment pathways for AC using large gene panels. TP53, SMAD4, SPTA1, and GNAS mutations serve as prospective tumor-specific molecular classifiers for histological grade, while germline variants in NOTCH4 and BARD1 may further influence disease biology, with ZFHX3, ADGRA2, POLE, and TCF3 affecting grade stratification. Overall cfDNA concentration may serve as a potential prognostic biomarker in AC.© 2026. Society of Surgical Oncology.
Diabetic nephropathy (DN) belongs to the major cause of end-stage kidney disease. We probed the functions of a microRNA miR-33a in inducing podocytes injury during childhood  DN (CDN).Kidney samples were collected from 20 children with DN. Matrix deposition and glomerular basement membranes thickness were examined by periodic acid-Schiff staining. Immunofluorescence staining was performed to assess kidney function-related proteins. MicroRNA (MiR)-33a mimic together with miR-33a inhibitor was transfected into podocytes for determining the roles of miR-33a. Glomerular podocyte apoptosis was determined by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT) dUTP Nick-End Labeling (TUNEL) staining along with flow cytometry.Down-regulation of Nephrin and Podocin and increased podocyte apoptosis rate were observed in the glomerulus of CDN as well as podocytes treated with high glucose. MiR-33a was up regulated in the glomeruli and glucose-treated podocytes. Injury in podocytes was aggravated with miR-33a elevation but alleviated with miR-33a inhibition. Moreover, the expression of Sirtuin 6 (Sirt6) was decreased while the levels of notch receptor 1 (Notch1) and notch receptor 4 (Notch4) were elevated in the glomerulus and glucose-treated podocytes. Decreased level of Sirt6 upon glucose treatment was abrogated by miR-33a inhibition, and the podocytes injury induced by glucose exposure was relieved by Sirt6 via Notch signaling.These findings indicated that miR-33a promoted podocyte injury via targeting Sirt6-dependent Notch signaling in CDN, which might provide a novel sight for CDN treatment. DOI: 10.52547/ijkd.7904.
Epidemiological research and systematic meta-analyses indicate a higher risk of B-cell lymphomas in patients with chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) compared to non-infected individuals. However, the genetic links between HCV and these lymphomas remain under-researched.Mendelian randomization analysis was employed to explore the association between chronic hepatitis C (CHC) and B-cell lymphomas as well as chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Approximate Bayes Factor (ABF) localization analysis was conducted to find shared genetic variants that might connect CHC with B-cell lymphomas and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Furthermore, The Variant Effect Predictor (VEP) was utilized to annotate the functional effects of the identified genetic variants.Mendelian randomization revealed a significant association between CHC and increased diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL) risk (OR: 1.34; 95% CI: 1.01-1.78; P = 0.0397). Subsequent colocalization analysis pinpointed two noteworthy variants, rs17208853 (chr6:32408583) and rs482759 (chr6:32227240) between these two traits. The annotation of these variants through the VEP revealed their respective associations with the butyrophilin-like protein 2 (BTNL2) and notch receptor 4 (NOTCH4) genes, along with the long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) TSBP1-AS1.This research provides a refined genetic understanding of the CHC-DLBCL connection, opening avenues for targeted therapeutic research and intervention.© 2024. The Author(s).
Objective: The main purpose of this study is to perform a comprehensive investigation of the prognostic value and molecular mechanism of syntaxin binding protein 5 antisense RNA 1 (STXBP5-AS1) through the whole genome RNA sequencing data of the The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) colon adenocarcinoma (COAD) cohort. Methods: There were 438 COAD patients were fit into current study for survival analysis. Gene expression profiling interactive analysis 2.0, Database for Annotation, Visualization and Integrated Discovery v6.8, gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) and connectivity map (CMap) are used to investigate the molecular mechanisms and targeted drugs of STXBP5-AS1 in COAD. Results: By comparing the expression level of tumor and non-tumor tissues, we found that STXBP5-AS1 was notablely down-regulated in COAD tumor tissues. Survival analysis suggested that low STXBP5-AS1 expression was significantly related to poor overall survival (OS) of COAD (log-rank P=0.035, adjusted P=0.005, HR=0.545, 95%CI=0.356-0.836). The enrichment analysis of STXBP5-AS1 co-expressed genes, GSEA and differentially expressed genes suggests that STXBP5-AS1 may play a part in COAD by regulating the following biological processes or pathways: cell junction, DNA replication, apoptosis, cell cycle, metastasis, tumor protein 53, Wnt, mTORC1, MCM, notch receptor 4, transforming growth factor beta receptor, and cGMP-PKG signaling pathway. CMap analysis was screened out four small molecule drugs (anisomycin, cephaeline, NU-1025 and quipazine) that may be used as STXBP5-AS1 targeted therapy drugs in COAD. The co-expression analysis of STXBP5-AS1 and immune cell gene signature indicated that STXBP5-AS1 was significantly related to immune cell gene set in normal intestinal tissues, but not in COAD tumor tissues. Conclusion: Our results revealed that STXBP5-AS1 is notablely down-regulated in COAD tumor tissues, and may act as a novel prognostic biomarker for COAD.© The author(s).
Aberrant protein O-fucosylation mediated by protein O-fucosyltransferase 1 (POFUT1), has emerged as a hallmark of tumorigenesis that regulates key signaling pathways, including Notch, which is frequently dysregulated in cancers. Protein O-fucosylation, catalyzed by POFUT1, regulates Notch signaling and has been implicated in individual cancers, but its pan-cancer expression patterns, clinical significance, and relationship to tumor immunity remain incompletely characterized.We conducted a multi-omics bioinformatics analysis using TCGA and other public datasets to evaluate POFUT1 expression across 33 cancer types (n > 10,000). Differential expressions, tumor stage correlations, and survival outcomes were assessed. Immune cell infiltration was estimated using SangerBox and TIMER algorithms, while promoter methylation patterns were analyzed through UALCAN. Functional enrichment and protein-protein interaction networks were constructed to elucidate functional mechanism. Western blot validation in prostate and ovarian cancer cell lines confirmed our computational analysis.POFUT1 showed significant overexpression in 16 of 33 cancer types (FDR-adjusted p < 0.05), with the highest elevation in BRCA (breast invasive carcinoma; log2FC = 2.31) and LUAD (lung adenocarcinoma; log2FC = 2.1). A high POFUT1 expression correlated with poor overall survival in eight cancer types (HR range: 1.8-3.2, p < 0.01) and disease-free survival in seven cancers. POFUT1 levels positively correlated with myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) infiltrating in 15 cancer types, while inversely correlated with natural killer T (NKT) cells presence in 15 cancers (mean R = -0.34, p < 0.05), indicating an association with immunosuppressive microenvironments. Promoter hypomethylation in tumors suggested epigenetic dysregulation as a potential driver of its overexpression. Western blot analysis confirmed POFUT1 protein upregulations in prostate and ovarian cancer cell lines (1.7-2.1-fold. p < 0.01), corroborating transcriptomic findings.This pan-cancer study establishes POFUT1 as a critical oncogenic factor linked to aggressive disease, immune evasion, and poor prognosis. Its consistent overexpression and functional impact highlight its potential as a biomarker and target for anticancer therapy. While these computational findings require experimental validation, POFUT1 emerges as a candidate biomarker warranting functional studies and potential therapeutic targeting.
Protein O-fucosyltransferase 1 (POFUT1) catalyzes the transfer of fucose to threonine or serine residues within epidermal growth factor-like domains (EGF-LDs) and is a therapeutic target for Notch-associated O-glycosylation disorders. Unlike classical inverting glycosyltransferases, POFUT1 employs a catalytic asparagine that tautomerizes to its imidic acid form during the reaction. How the enzyme subsequently restores the canonical amidic form of Asn51 has remained unclear. Here, quantum mechanics/molecular mechanics simulations reveal that active-site water molecules mediate Asn51 retautomerization through a Grotthuss-type proton relay involving a low free energy barrier (<6 kcal·mol-1). This process can occur regardless of the presence of product molecules in the active site, although it is most favorable after product release. These findings elucidate how POFUT1 resets its catalytic machinery after turnover, underscore the essential role of water molecules in enzyme catalysis, and suggest that similar water-mediated strategies may operate in other enzymes in which catalytic residues undergo protonation changes during turnover.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40773107 is a review article
In the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), O-glycosylation by O-fucose, O-glucose, and O-N-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc) occur in the epidermal growth factor-like (EGF) domains of secreted or transmembrane glycoproteins. Previous studies on Notch receptors have revealed the pivotal role of these O-glycans in the cell surface expression of Notch and secretion of truncated Notch fragments. Although it has been demonstrated that O-fucose, O-glucose and O-GlcNAc stabilize individual EGF domains, their role in the secretory pathway following the completion of the folding process remains unexplored. In this study, we used delta-like homolog 1 (DLK1) containing six consecutive EGF domains as a model glycoprotein to investigate the role of EGF-domain-specific O-glycans in the secretory pathway. Semi-quantitative site-specific glycoproteomics of recombinantly expressed DLK1 revealed multiple O-fucose and O-glucose modifications, along with an unusual EGF-domain-specific O-linked N-acetylglucosamine transferase (EOGT)-dependent O-hexose modification. Consistent with the results of the secretion assay, inactivation of the glycosyltransferases modifying O-fucose and O-glucose, but not the newly identified O-hexose, perturbed the transport of DLK1 from the ER during retention, as assessed using the selective hooks (RUSH) system. Importantly, the absence of O-fucose did not affect O-glucose modification within the same EGF domain, and vice versa. Since protein O-fucosyltransferase 1 and protein O-glucosyltransferase 1 activities depend on the folded state of the EGF domains, O-glycans affected DLK1 transport independently of the folding process required for O-glycosylation in the ER. These findings highlight the distinct roles of O-glycans in facilitating the transport of DLK1 from the ER to the cell surface.© 2025 Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
Nodal-related ligands of TGF-β family play pivotal roles for mesoderm induction and body axis formation during vertebrate early embryogenesis. Nodal ligands are distinct from most other TGF-β ligands family as they require EGF-CFC factors as coreceptors for signaling, in addition to their cognate type I and type II TGF-β receptors. In amphibian Xenopus laevis embryos, 5 Nodal-related genes (Xnr1/2/4/5/6) and 2 EGF-CFC genes (XCR1, XCR3) play roles in mesoderm induction and the accumulation of phosphorylated Smad2, while in mammalian embryos, 1 Nodal gene and 1 EGF-CFC gene (Cripto) play roles during mesoderm induction. Mammalian EGF-CFC factors are reported to be O-fucosylated at a conserved threonine residue of the EGF-like motif by protein-O-fucosyltransferase 1 (Pofut1), but this O-fucose modification is shown to be dispensable for Nodal signaling in mammalian embryos. In this study, we investigated the developmental roles of Xenopus laevis Pofut1 (XPofut1) and its potential function in Nodal signaling. We found that morpholino antisense-mediated knockdown of XPofut1 causes reduction of Smad2 phosphorylation in late blastula and axial truncation in neurula. We also found that the O-fucosyltransferase activity of XPofut1 is important in the marginal zone, but not in the vegetal pole region, of blastula. Interestingly, XPofut1 is necessary for Smad2 phosphorylation induced by Xnr1 or Xnr2, but not by Xnr5 or Xnr6. Among the Nodal signaling components, only EGF-CFC factors are known to be modified by Pofut1. Therefore, based on our current observation, we propose that XPofut1 regulates signaling of a subset of nodal ligands in pregastrulation embryos possibly through modulating the function of EGF-CFC factors.Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
O-Fucosylation plays crucial roles in various essential biological events. Alongside the well-established O-fucosylation of epidermal growth factor-like repeats by protein O-fucosyltransferase 1 (POFUT1) and thrombospondin type 1 repeats by POFUT2, we recently identified a type of O-fucosylation on the elastin microfibril interface (EMI) domain of Multimerin-1 (MMRN1). Here, using AlphaFold2 screens, co-immunoprecipitation, enzymatic assays combined with mass spectrometric analysis and CRISPR-Cas9 knockouts, we demonstrate that FUT10 and FUT11, originally annotated in UniProt as α1,3-fucosyltransferases, are actually POFUTs responsible for modifying EMI domains; thus, we renamed them as POFUT3 and POFUT4, respectively. Like POFUT1/2, POFUT3/4 function in the endoplasmic reticulum, require folded domain structures for modification and participate in a non-canonical endoplasmic reticulum quality control pathway for EMI domain-containing protein secretion. This finding expands the O-fucosylation repertoire and provides an entry point for further exploration in this emerging field of O-fucosylation.© 2025. The Author(s).
NOTCH1 is a transmembrane receptor interacting with membrane-tethered ligands on opposing cells that mediate the direct cell-cell interaction necessary for many cell fate decisions. Protein O-fucosyltransferase 1 (POFUT1) adds O-fucose to Epidermal Growth Factor (EGF)-like repeats in the NOTCH1 extracellular domain, which is required for trafficking and signaling activation. We previously showed that POFUT1 S162L caused a 90% loss of POFUT1 activity and global developmental defects in a patient; however, the mechanism by which POFUT1 contributes to these symptoms is still unclear. Compared to controls, POFUT1 S162L patient fibroblast cells had an equivalent amount of NOTCH1 on the cell surface but showed a 60% reduction of DLL1 ligand binding and a 70% reduction in JAG1 ligand binding. To determine if the reduction of O-fucose on NOTCH1 in POFUT1 S162L patient fibroblasts was the cause of these effects, we immunopurified endogenous NOTCH1 from control and patient fibroblasts and analyzed O-fucosylation using mass spectral glycoproteomics methods. NOTCH1 EGF8 to EGF12 comprise the ligand binding domain, and O-fucose on EGF8 and EGF12 physically interact with ligands to enhance affinity. Glycoproteomics of NOTCH1 from POFUT1 S162L patient fibroblasts showed WT fucosylation levels at all sites analyzed except for a large decrease at EGF9 and the complete absence of O-fucose at EGF12. Since the loss of O-fucose on EGF12 is known to have significant effects on NOTCH1 activity, this may explain the symptoms observed in the POFUT1 S162L patient.© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.
The immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME) plays an essential role in cancer progression and immunotherapy response. Despite the considerable advancements in cancer immunotherapy, the limited response to immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) therapies in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains a major challenge for its clinical implications. Here, we investigated the molecular basis of the protein O-fucosyltransferase 1 (POFUT1) that drives HCC immune evasion and explored a potential therapeutic strategy for enhancing ICB efficacy.De novo MYC/Trp53-/- liver tumor and the xenograft tumor models were used to evaluate the function of POFUT1 in immune evasion. Biochemical assays were performed to elucidate the underlying mechanism of POFUT1-mediated immune evasion.We identified POFUT1 as a crucial promoter of immune evasion in liver cancer. Notably, POFUT1 promoted HCC progression and inhibited T-cell infiltration in the xenograft tumor and de novo MYC/Trp53-/- mouse liver tumor models. Mechanistically, we demonstrated that POFUT1 stabilized programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1) protein by preventing tripartite motif containing 21-mediated PD-L1 ubiquitination and degradation independently of its protein-O-fucosyltransferase activity. In addition, we further demonstrated that PD-L1 was required for the tumor-promoting and immune evasion effects of POFUT1 in HCC. Importantly, inhibition of POFUT1 could synergize with anti-programmed death receptor 1 therapy by remodeling TME in the xenograft tumor mouse model. Clinically, POFUT1 high expression displayed a lower response rate and worse clinical outcome to ICB therapies.Our findings demonstrate that POFUT1 functions as a novel regulator of tumor immune evasion and inhibition of POFUT1 may be a potential therapeutic strategy to enhance the efficacy of immune therapy in HCC.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2024. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.
NOTCH1 (N1) is a transmembrane receptor interacting with membrane-tethered ligands on opposing cells that mediate the direct cell-cell interaction necessary for many cell fate decisions. Protein O -fucosyltransferase 1 (POFUT1) adds O -fucose to Epidermal Growth Factor (EGF)-like repeats in the NOTCH1 extracellular domain, which is required for trafficking and signaling activation. We previously showed that POFUT1 S162L caused a 90% loss of POFUT1 activity and global developmental defects in a patient; however, the mechanism by which POFUT1 contributes to these symptoms is still unclear. Compared to controls, POFUT1 S162L patient fibroblast cells had an equivalent amount of N1 on the cell surface but showed a 60% reduction of DLL1 ligand binding and a 70% reduction in JAG1 ligand binding. To determine if the reduction of O -fucose on N1 in POFUT1 S162L patient fibroblasts was the cause of these effects, we immunopurified endogenous N1 from control and patient fibroblasts and analyzed O -fucosylation using mass spectral glycoproteomics methods. N1 EGF8 to EGF12 comprise the ligand binding domain, and O -fucose on EGF8 and EGF12 physically interact with ligands to enhance affinity. Glycoproteomics of N1 from POFUT1 S162L patient fibroblasts showed WT fucosylation levels at all sites analyzed except for a large decrease at EGF9 and the complete absence of O -fucose at EGF12. Since the loss of O -fucose on EGF12 is known to have significant effects on N1 activity, this may explain the symptoms observed in the POFUT1 S162L patient.
Platelet activation induces the secretion of proteins that promote platelet aggregation and inflammation. However, detailed analysis of the released platelet proteome is hampered by platelets' tendency to preactivate during their isolation and a lack of sensitive protocols for low abundance releasate analysis. Here, we detail the most sensitive analysis to date of the platelet releasate proteome with the detection of >1300 proteins. Unbiased scanning for posttranslational modifications within releasate proteins highlighted O-glycosylation as being a major component. For the first time, we detected O-fucosylation on previously uncharacterized sites including multimerin-1 (MMRN1), a major alpha granule protein that supports platelet adhesion to collagen and is a carrier for platelet factor V. The N-terminal elastin microfibril interface (EMI) domain of MMRN1, a key site for protein-protein interaction, was O-fucosylated at a conserved threonine within a new domain context. Our data suggest that either protein O-fucosyltransferase 1, or a novel protein O-fucosyltransferase, may be responsible for this modification. Mutating this O-fucose site on the EMI domain led to a >50% reduction of MMRN1 secretion, supporting a key role of EMI O-fucosylation in MMRN1 secretion. By comparing releasates from resting and thrombin-treated platelets, 202 proteins were found to be significantly released after high-dose thrombin stimulation. Complementary quantification of the platelet lysates identified >3800 proteins, which confirmed the platelet origin of releasate proteins by anticorrelation analysis. Low-dose thrombin treatment yielded a smaller subset of significantly regulated proteins with fewer secretory pathway enzymes. The extensive platelet proteome resource provided here (larancelab.com/platelet-proteome) allows identification of novel regulatory mechanisms for drug targeting to address platelet dysfunction and thrombosis.Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Tissue-resident macrophages receive signals from their microenvironment that coordinate the activity of transcription factors (TFs) to establish distinct transcriptional profiles and identities. However, the molecular mechanisms whereby interactions with other cells of the niche imprint a distinct macrophage identity remain poorly understood. Here, we report that retinoid X receptors (RXRs) determine the differentiation and identity of alveolar macrophages (AM) by regulating chromatin accessibility and transcriptional activity of AM-core and function genes, enabling PPARγ-dependent programs. AM differentiation and maintenance in vivo require RXR upregulation in response to tissue-derived δ-like canonical Notch ligand 4 (DLL4), GM-CSF, and TGF β (TGFβ). Interplay among these signals leads to cooperation between RXRα, RBPJ, STAT5, and SMAD4 for the transcriptional and epigenetic regulation of key AM-core genes. These results underscore the role of RXRs as key TFs that cooperate with other regulatory elements to establish the AM population and determine AM identity.© 2026 Mínguez-Martínez et al.
Olfactory neuroblastoma (ONB) is a rare head and neck cancer arising from the upper nasal cavity, with limited systemic therapeutic options due to a poor understanding of its genomic landscape. This study aims to utilize a patient-level genomic repository to identify potential therapeutic targets and improve disease modeling in ONB.Retrospective genomic analysis.Data analysis was performed using the American Association for Cancer Research (AACR) Project Genomics Evidence Neoplasia Information Exchange (GENIE) database.Patients with confirmed ONB who have undergone targeted sequencing within GENIE.Data were analyzed for recurrent somatic mutations, along with their clinical and demographic correlations, with significance set at p < 0.05.A high prevalence of mutations in TP53 (tumor protein p53) and FRK (fibroblast growth factor receptor kinase) genes was identified. A moderate prevalence of mutations in NOTCH3 (notch receptor 3), SMARCA4 (SWI/SNF related, matrix associated, actin dependent regulator of chromatin, subfamily A, member 4), RET (rearranged during transfection), and CTCF (CCCTC-binding factor) was also identified. The mutation patterns differed between pediatric and adult ONB cases. Specific mutations were enriched in metastatic tumors compared with primary tumors.This study provides a genomic profile for ONB, identifying key mutations and potential therapeutic targets. The identification of frequently mutated genes like TP53 and FRK suggests potential targets for novel therapies. The observation that certain genes are mutated in pediatric ONB but not adult ONB (and vice versa), and the presence of specific mutations in metastatic tumors that are absent in primary tumors, offers valuable insights for future precision medicine and the design of targeted therapeutic interventions for these distinct clinical presentations.Thieme. All rights reserved.
Translocation of Campylobacter concisus from the oral cavity to the intestinal tract is increasingly recognised as a contributor to inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). The C. concisus secreted protein Csep1 has emerged as a molecular marker of C. concisus strains associated with Crohn's disease, a form of IBD. However, its structure and role in inflammation remain unknown. Here, we report the X-ray crystal structure of plasmid-encoded Csep1P that reveals a unique α-helical fold with structural similarity to Helicobacter pylori cysteine-rich proteins HcpB and HcpC. Because HcpA, another Hcp family member, is known to affect monocyte differentiation, this structural similarity led us to hypothesise that Csep1P may modulate monocyte differentiation and macrophage function. Transcriptomic analysis revealed that Csep1P induced a chemokine-dominant inflammatory state in macrophages, M1-chem. Protein-level validation in both THP-1-derived and primary human macrophages confirmed this selective chemokine response. While Csep1P alone did not upregulate proinflammatory cytokines, THP-1-derived macrophages pre-incubated with Csep1P produced a higher level of proinflammatory cytokines in response to commensal Escherichia coli, which was validated on primary human macrophages. Furthermore, silencing the delta like canonical notch ligand 4 (DLL4) gene decreased the proinflammatory response of Csep1P-mediated macrophages to E. coli. Collectively, our data demonstrate that the structurally unique Csep1P reprograms macrophage response, which provides a mechanistic link between C. concisus infection and Crohn's disease pathogenesis, and identifies Csep1P as a potential target for therapeutic intervention.Copyright: © 2026 Luk et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited.
A 13-year-old girl presented for evaluation of pulmonary hypertension after symptoms of dyspnea and exercise intolerance. Full evaluation was negative except for abdominal ultrasonography with splenomegaly and esophageal varices suggestive of portal hypertension. Cardiac and hepatic vein catheterization confirmed portopulmonary hypertension. Liver biopsy demonstrated sinusoidal dilatation, nodularity, and minimal fibrosis, which was interpreted as possible nodular regenerative hyperplasia but not cirrhosis. Radiographic imaging, including computed tomography venography, demonstrated an elongated and severely stenotic extrahepatic portal vein, and portal hypertension was presumed to be secondary to congenital portal vein hypoplasia. She was treated with ambrisentan with initial improvement in symptoms and estimated pulmonary pressure. Whole-exome sequencing revealed a likely pathogenic missense mutation in Delta-like canonical Notch ligand 4 associated with Adams-Oliver syndrome. After 2 years, pulmonary hypertension and right heart failure symptoms worsened, along with liver failure. She then had fulminant liver failure and cardiorespiratory arrest. Resuscitative efforts included extracorporeal membranous oxygenation (ECMO), but because of hypoxic brain injury, care was compassionately withdrawn. Autopsy limited to the thorax and abdomen revealed high-grade pulmonary plexiform arteriopathy, splenomegaly, esophageal varices, and large splenorenal shunt. The liver was small with a nodular surface but not fibrotic. The entire length of the extrahepatic portal vein was severely stenotic, and intrahepatic portal veins were missing or diminutive-findings diagnostic of hepatoportal sclerosis. Noncirrhotic portopulmonary hypertension is rare and should include evaluation of immunologic, infectious, toxic, thrombotic, and genetic etiologies. Unfortunately, there is no known treatment of hepatoportal sclerosis.Copyright © 2026 by the American Academy of Pediatrics.
Cerebrovascular malformations are a pivotal cause of hemorrhage and neurological disability, orchestrated largely by aberrant vascular homeostasis. However, a malformed angiogenic regulation pattern remains elusive.Single-cell transcriptome analysis uncovered the endothelial features of human cerebral cavernous malformations and brain arteriovenous malformations, 2 typical cerebrovascular malformation diseases. Endothelial AR (androgen receptor, a steroid receptor in the nuclear receptor superfamily) overexpression was conducted to investigate its involvement in tip cell formation. ARD-2585, an AR degrader, was applied to mouse models of cerebral cavernous malformations (endothelial-specific Pdcd10 knockout mice) and brain arteriovenous malformations (endothelial-specific KrasG12D mutant [KrasG12D] mice) to evaluate its vascular rescue potential.We profiled single-cell transcriptomes of 13 human cerebrovascular malformation samples (10 cerebral cavernous malformations and 3 brain arteriovenous malformations) and 13 control brain samples, identifying a crucial pathological tip cell population in lesions. Integrative bioinformatics revealed a systemic endothelial regulatory network, with AR as a key regulator of this aberrant state. AR expression was elevated in endothelial cells from both human cerebrovascular malformations and Pdcd10 knockout/KrasG12D mice, correlating with suppressed Dll4 (delta-like canonical Notch ligand 4)-Notch signaling. AR overexpression augmented endothelial tube formation, filopodia extension, and polarization in vitro and fostered sex-independent vascular sprouting in vivo. High levels of AR facilitated proangiogenic gene transcription by recruiting coactivators EP300 (EP300 lysine acetyltransferase)/CBP (CREB binding lysine acetyltransferase), augmenting histone H3 lysine 18/histone H3 lysine 27 acetylation, and boosting chromatin accessibility, potentially independent of androgen. Notably, ARD-2585 treatment effectively normalized vascular anomalies and alleviated cerebral hemorrhage in Pdcd10 knockout and KrasG12D mice.We delineated a novel androgen-independent AR-mediated endothelial sprouting pattern in malformed cerebrovasculature, highlighting a promising foundation for developing interventions targeting tip cells in angiogenic diseases.
Hypoxia contributes to the proliferation, migration, and chemotherapy resistance of lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD). This study aimed to identify hypoxia-related genes (HRGs) in LUAD that were positively correlated with hypoxia-inducible factor 1 alpha (HIF1A), to advance the diagnosis and treatment of this specific type of cancer.The transcriptome data were retrieved from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO). Multiple bioinformatics analysis methods were employed to identify HRGs that were upregulated in LUAD samples and positively correlated with the expression of HIF1A. Machine Learning algorithms were utilized for optimized selection, filtering out core HRGs highly associated with the disease. Finally, in vitro experiments confirmed the expression of these core HRGs in LUAD cells under hypoxic conditions.The study revealed five core HRGs that exhibit a positive correlation with HIF1A [collagen type I alpha 1 chain (COL1A1), interleukin 11 (IL11), matrix metallopeptidase 14 (MMP14), notch receptor 3 (NOTCH3), and thymocyte differentiation antigen 1 (THY1)]. In vitro experiments conducted on A549 cells demonstrated a marked increase in mRNA expression for both the identified core HRGs and HIF1A following chronic intermittent hypoxia (CIH) treatment. The developed model exhibits substantial predictive efficacy for assessing the prognosis of LUAD patients experiencing concurrent hypoxia.The five HRGs that we have identified as positively associated with HIF1A may serve as crucial targets for promoting the progression of LUAD under hypoxic conditions. This discovery offers valuable insights into the diagnosis and treatment of clinical hypoxic disease in patients with LUAD.Copyright © 2025 AME Publishing Company. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 40093978 is a review article
Vascular smooth muscle cells(VSMCs) phenotypic switching under hyperglycemic conditions accelerates atherosclerotic progression. Notch receptor 3(NOTCH3), a critical stabilizer of VSMC homeostasis implicated in cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL) pathogenesis, ensures vascular integrity; however, its interplay with RAN Binding Protein 1(RANBP1) during pathological hyperglycemia remains uncharacterized. We hypothesize that hyperglycemia-induced autophagic dysregulation is mechanistically governed by theNotch receptor 3 (NOTCH3)/RANBP1 axis, proliferative capacity, and apoptotic signaling in high glucose (HG)-stimulated VSMCs. The aim of this study was to elucidate the regulatory mechanisms of autophagy in VSMCs under HG conditions, with a focus on the NOTCH3/RANBP1 axis and its implications for vascular health.Bioinformatics analysis was performed on NOTCH3 sequencing data, including weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), screening of differentially expressed genes (DEGs), and construction of a protein-protein interaction (PPI) network, to identify the key gene, RANBP1. In vitro experiments, including cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) assays, quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), Western blotting (WB), and flow cytometry, were conducted to examine the effects of NOTCH3 knockdown combined with RANBP1 overexpression on glucose-induced autophagy marker expression and cell viability in VSMCs.NOTCH3 knockdown suppressed VSMC proliferation and induced apoptosis, and the cell cycle was stopped at the S phase. Analysis of VSMC sequencing data revealed 38 overlapping genes between the turquoise module and DEGs, 11 (HPF1, RANBP1, CRNKL1, LGALS3, RDX, ECM1, CXCL5, PA2G4, CENPS, ZNF830, and HIST1H4L) of which were significantly underexpressed in VSMC samples with si-NOTCH3. In a dose-dependent manner, HG therapy altered the expression of autophagy-related markers, upregulated NOTCH3, and downregulated phosphorylated mammalian target of rapamycin (p-mTOR). Downregulation of NOTCH3 aggravated the effects of HG on cell viability and autophagy, whereas overexpression of RANBP1 reversed these effects, suggesting an offsetting effect on HG-induced autophagy.On the basis of sequencing technology, bioinformatics analysis and cell experiments, we conclude that the RANBP1/NOTCH3 axis is essential for the control of autophagy and survival of VSMCs under hyperglycemic stress and could provide new insight for the clinical treatment of VSMC-related diseases.© 2025 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Cadmium (Cd) is a widely available metal that has been found to have a role in causing nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). However, the detailed toxicological targets and mechanisms by which Cd causes NAFLD are unknown. Therefore, the present work aims to reveal the main targets of action, cellular processes, and molecular pathways by which cadmium causes NAFLD. As shown in the bioinformatics analysis, there were 74 main targets of action for cadmium-induced NAFLD, hemopoietic cell kinase (HCK), EPH receptor A2 (EPHA2), MYC proto-oncogene (MYC), lysyl oxidase (LOX), dipeptidyl peptidase 7 (DPP7), nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (NFE2L2), dual specificity phosphatase 6 (DUSP6), CD2 cytoplasmic tail binding protein 2 (CD2BP2), notch receptor 3 (NOTCH3), and phospholipase A2 group IVA (PLA2G4A) were screened as core genes. Testing these core genes in other databases, three differentially expressed genes, HCK, MYC, and DUSP6 were verified and used as targets for drug prediction in DsigDB; decitabine and retinoic acid were screened as potential therapeutic drugs for NAFLD based on the p-value and the combined score. The results of molecular docking showed that the predicted drugs can bind well to the core targets. In conclusion, cadmium is associated with NAFLD; the identified cadmium-toxicity targets, HCK, MYC, and DUSP6, may serve as biomarkers for the diagnosis of NAFLD and predicted drugs, decitabine and retinoic acid may have a potential role in the treatment of NAFLD.© 2025 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Stem cell-derived blood vessel organoids are embedded in extracellular matrices to stimulate vessel sprouting. Although vascular organoids in 3D collagen I-Matrigel gels are currently available, they are primarily capillaries composed of endothelial cells (ECs), pericytes, and mesenchymal stem-like cells, which necessitate mature arteriole differentiation for neovascularization. In this context, the hypothesis that matrix viscoelasticity regulates vascular development is investigated in 3D cultures by encapsulating blood vessel organoids within viscoelastic gelatin/β-CD assembly dynamic hydrogels or methacryloyl gelatin non-dynamic hydrogels. The vascular organoids within the dynamic hydrogel demonstrate enhanced angiogenesis and differentiation into arterioles containing smooth muscle cells. The dynamic hydrogel mechanical microenvironment promotes vascular patterning and arteriolar differentiation by elevating notch receptor 3 signaling in mesenchymal stem cells and downregulating platelet-derived growth factor B expression in ECs. Transplantation of vascular organoids in vivo, along with the dynamic hydrogel, leads to the reassembly of arterioles and restoration of cardiac function in infarcted hearts. These findings indicate that the viscoelastic properties of the matrix play a crucial role in controlling the vascular organization and differentiation processes, suggesting an exciting potential for its application in regenerative medicine.© 2024 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Osteochondral defects (OCDs) pose a significant clinical challenge due to their limited self-repair capacity. The complex structure and distinct biological properties of articular cartilage and subchondral bone further complicate regeneration.In this study, we introduce a novel osteochondral regeneration strategy leveraging single-cell RNA sequencing (ScRNA-seq) to identify a unique population of skeletal stem cells (SSCs) derived from the infrapatellar fat pad (IFP). These SSCs exhibit high differentiation potential and robust chondrogenic capacity. Using flow cytometry, we isolated SSCs and extracted their exosomes (Exos), which were subsequently combined with hydrogels to develop a novel bioink. Employing 3D printing technology, we fabricated an innovative hydrogel scaffold designed to adapted to the defective areas enhance OCD repair.In a rat OCD model, the 3D-printed hydrogel scaffold loaded with SSC-derived Exos (SSC-Exos) demonstrated exceptional osteochondral regeneration, facilitating synchronous repair of both cartilage and subchondral bone. In vitro experiments revealed that SSC-Exos significantly enhanced the chondrogenic differentiation of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs). Importantly, SSC-Exos derived from the IFP exhibited superior cartilage regeneration capabilities compared to Exos from adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cells (ADSC-Exos). High-throughput sequencing further elucidated the critical role of the microRNA-214-3p (miR-214-3p)/jagged canonical Notch ligand 2 (JAG2) axis in SSC-Exos-mediated cartilage regeneration. Collectively, the 3D-printed hydrogel scaffold loaded with SSC-Exos represents an innovative and effective strategy for OCD repair, with potential for clinical translation.© 2025 The Authors.
Tumor-associated neutrophils (TANs) play a critical role in modulating immune responses and exhibit significant heterogeneity. Our previous study demonstrated that jagged canonical Notch ligand 2 (JAG2)+ TANs were associated with an immunosuppressive microenvironment in high-grade serous ovarian cancer (HGSOC), but the underlying mechanism remains unclear. This study aimed to elucidate the role of JAG2+ TANs in tumor immunosuppressive microenvironment in HGSOC.HGSOC samples were collected, with 274 samples constituting two independent cohorts (training and validation cohorts) and an additional 30 samples utilized to establish patient-derived tumor organoids (PDTOs). We characterized the number and phenotype of JAG2+ TANs by multiplex immunohistochemistry, flow cytometry, and single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq). We investigated the biological functions of JAG2 in immune evasion using in vitro co-culture systems, flow cytometry, tumor-bearing mouse models, and PDTOs.JAG2+ TANs expressed elevated levels of immunosuppressive molecules, including programmed cell death ligand 1 and CD14, and had independent prognostic value for the overall survival of patients with HGSOC. scRNA-seq analysis revealed that JAG2+ TANs exhibited a terminally mature phenotype. The infiltration of JAG2+ TANs was positively correlated with the abundance of effector regulatory T cells (eTregs). Interaction with JAG2+ TANs skewed CD4+ T cells towards an eTreg phenotype, a process that was suppressed by the Notch inhibitor LY3039478 and induced by recombinant Jagged2. Furthermore, we demonstrated that JAG2+ TANs enhanced Notch signaling activation, ultimately promoting recombination signal binding protein for immunoglobulin kappa J region (RBPJ)-induced differentiation of naïve CD4+ T cells into eTregs. Clinically, JAG2+ TANs could serve as a biomarker for assessing immunotherapy resistance in various solid tumors. Pharmacological targeting of Notch signaling with LY3039478 or JAG2 neutralization antibodies enhanced the efficacy of programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) in both xenograft and PDTO models.The emergence of JAG2+ TANs is crucial for the differentiation of eTregs, which triggers immune evasion and resistance to anti-PD-1 therapy. Inhibiting Notch signaling with LY3039478 or JAG2 neutralization antibodies may overcome this anti-PD-1 resistance in HGSOC.© 2025 The Author(s). Cancer Communications published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd. on behalf of Sun Yat‐sen University Cancer Center.
(CCG) short tandem repeats (STRs) are predominantly enriched in genic regions, mutation hotspots for C to T truncating substitutions, and involved in various neurological and neurodevelopmental disorders. However, intact blocks of this class of STRs are widely overlooked with respect to their link with natural selection. The human neuron-specific gene, DISP2 (dispatched RND transporter family member 2), contains a (CCG) repeat in its 5' untranslated region. Here, we sequenced this STR in a sample of 448 Iranian individuals, consisting of late-onset neurocognitive disorder (NCD) (N = 203) and controls (N = 245). We found that the region spanning the (CCG) repeat was highly mutated, resulting in several flanking (CCG) residues. However, an 8-repeat of the (CCG) repeat was predominantly abundant (frequency = 0.92) across the two groups. While the overall distribution of genotypes was not different between the two groups (p > 0.05), we detected four genotypes in the NCD group only (2% of the NCD genotypes, Mid-p = 0.02), consisting of extreme short alleles, 5- and 6-repeats, that were not detected in the control group. The patients harboring those genotypes received the diagnoses of probable Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia. We also found six genotypes in the control group only (2.5% of the control genotypes, Mid-p = 0.01) that consisted of the 8-repeat and extreme long alleles, 9- and 10-repeats, of which the 10-repeat was not detected in the NCD group. The (CCG) repeat specifically expanded in primates. In conclusion, we report an indication of natural selection at a novel hypermutable region in the human genome and divergent alleles and genotypes in late-onset NhCDs and controls. These findings reinforce the hypothesis that a collection of rare alleles and genotypes in a number of genes may unambiguously contribute to the cognition impairment component of late-onset NCDs.© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
In this study, we aimed to explore the molecular role of Deltex E3 ubiquitin ligase 4 (DTX4) in thyroid cancer (TC) both in vitro and in vivo. The expression level of DTX4 in TC tissues was compared using The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database. We subsequently evaluated cell proliferation and migration in DTX4 knock down or DTX4 overexpression TC cell lines (TPC-1 and K1) by CCK-8, cell colony formation, and transwell assays. RNA sequencing and KEGG analysis were employed to identify potential genes that interact with DTX4. Our results showed that DTX4 was expressed at higher levels in both TC tissues and cells compared to normal controls. Knock down of DTX4 expression significantly inhibited TC cell progression in vitro. Furthermore, knockdown of endogenous DTX4 by shDTX4 markedly abrogated tumor growth, with significantly smaller tumor size and lower tumor weight in the shDTX4 group compared to the shCtrl group. Conversely, overexpression of DTX4 enhanced TC cell proliferation and migration. Through RNA sequencing, we identified 590 Differentially Expressed Genes (DEGs), with stearoyl-CoA desaturase 1 (SCD) ranking as the top gene. A positive correlation between DTX4 and SCD was observed in TC samples. Additionally, treatment with an SCD inhibitor, A939572, significantly rescued the enhanced growth effect induced by DTX4 overexpression. In conclusion, this study demonstrated that DTX4 promotes TC progression through SCD, indicating that the DTX4/SCD axis could be a promising target for TC therapy.© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
As a protective mechanism regulating excessive inflammation, endotoxin tolerance plays a vital role in regulating endotoxin shock. Kupffer cells are players in mediating endotoxin tolerance. Nonetheless, the regulatory mechanism regulating endotoxin tolerance is barely known. A nonclassical IKK kinase called TRAF-associated NF-κB activator (TANK)-binding kinase 1 (TBK1) can regulate inflammation. Here, we found that TBK1 is required for endotoxin tolerance in Kupffer cells. TBK1 plays a dominant role in regulating endotoxin tolerance by negatively regulating the induction of p100 processing. Deltex E3 ubiquitin ligase 4 (DTX4), a negative regulator of TBK1, can promote TBK1 K48-mediated ubiquitination and indirectly regulate endotoxin tolerance in Kupffer cells. We demonstrate that the c-Myb transcription factor could negatively regulate DTX4. Overexpression of c-Myb can be used to reduce the ubiquitination of TBK1 by reducing DTX4 transcription and to boost the anti-inflammatory effect of endotoxin tolerance. Thus, this study reveals a novel theory of TBK1-mediated endotoxin tolerance in Kupffer cells.Copyright © 2023 Yi-Lin Wu et al.
In our previous study, microRNA (miR)-381 was found to be the most down-regulated miRNA in skeletal muscle of Liaoning cashmere goats with higher skeletal muscle mass, but the molecular mechanism involved remains unclear. In this study, primary caprine skeletal muscle satellite cells (SMSCs) were isolated and identified. We investigated the effect of miR-381 on the viability, proliferation and differentiation of caprine SMSCs, and the target relationships of miR-381 with jagged canonical Notch ligand 2 (JAG2) and phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN). Cells isolated were positive for SMSC-specific marker protein Pax7. This suggests that purified SMSCs were obtained. The expression level of miR-381 achieved a peak value on day 4 after SMSC differentiation, and miR-381 also significantly increased the expression levels of myogenic differentiation marker genes: myosin heavy chain (MyHC), myogenin (MyoG) and myocyte enhancer factor 2C (MEF2C) in differentiated SMSCs, the area of MyHC-positive myotubes and the myogenic index. These findings suggest that miR-381 promoted myogenic differentiation of caprine SMSCs. The CCK8 assay and EDU staining analysis showed that miR-381 mimic both inhibited the viability of SMSCs and decreased the percentage of EDU-labeled positive SMSCs. In contrast, miR-381 inhibitor had the opposite effect with miR-381 mimic. A dual luciferase reporter assay verified that miR-381 can target JAG2 and PTEN by binding to the 3'-untranslated regions (3'-UTR) of the genes. The transfection of miR-381 mimic into caprine SMSCs resulted in decreases in expression levels of JAG2 and PTEN, while miR-381 inhibitor increased the two target genes in expression. This is the first study to reveal the biological mechanisms by which miR-381 regulates caprine SMSC activities.
The effects of excessive dietary iron intake on the body have been an important topic. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of high-dose iron on intestinal damage and regeneration in dextran sodium sulfate (DSS)-induced colitis model mice. A total of 72 8-week-old adult C57BL/6 mice were randomly divided into two dietary treatment groups: the basal diet supplemented with 45 (control) and 450 mg/kg iron (high-iron) from ferrous sulfate. The mice were fed different diets for 2 weeks, and then 2.5% DSS was orally administered to all mice for 7 days. Samples of different tissues were collected on days 0, 3, and 7 post administration (DPA). High-iron treatment significantly decreased the relative weight of the large intestine at 7 DPA but not at 0 DPA or 3 DPA. High dietary iron increased the jejunal villus width at 0 DPA, decreased the villus width and the crypt depth of the jejunum at 3 DPA, and decreased the number of colonic crypts at 7 DPA. Meanwhile, high dietary iron decreased the number of goblet cells in the jejunal villi and the Paneth cells in the jejunal crypts at 0 DPA, increased the number of goblet cells per crypt of the colon at 3 DPA, and the number of Paneth cells in the jejunal crypts, the goblet cells in the colon, the Ki67-positive proliferating cells in the colon, and the Sex-determining region Y-box transcription factor 9+ (SOX9) cells in the jejunum crypts and colon at 7 DPA. The organoid formation rate was increased by high-iron treatments at 3 DPA and 7 DPA. High dietary iron treatment decreased the mRNA level of jejunal jagged canonical Notch ligand 2 (Jag-2) at 0 DPA and bone morphogenetic protein 4 (Bmp4) and neural precursor cell-expressed developmentally downregulated 8 (Nedd8) in the jejunum and colon at 7 DPA, whereas it increased the mRNA expression of the serum/glucocorticoid-regulated kinase 1 (Sgk1) in the colon at 3 DPA. The results suggested that a high dose of iron aggravated intestinal injury but promoted intestinal repair by regulating intestinal epithelial cell renewal and intestinal stem cell activity in adult mice with colitis.Copyright © 2022 Zhang, Yin, Zeng, Li, Yin, Wang, Li and Yang.
Proteasome 26S subunit, non-ATPase 14 (PSMD14) expression has been previously reported to be reduced in patients with pre-eclampsia (PE). The present study investigated the interaction network associated with the role of PSMD14 in PE. Reverse transcription-quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) and western blotting were performed to determine the transfection efficacy following plasmid-based gene transfer of PSMD14 into HTR-8/SVneo cells. Cell proliferation was measured using an MTT assay and 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine staining. The expression of proliferation-related proteins, including Ki67 and PCNA, was determined using western blotting. Wound healing and Transwell assays were performed to measure cell invasion and migration, whilst the expression of migration-related proteins, including MMP2 and MMP9, was measured using western blotting. The angiogenesis of HUVECs following treatment with the HTR-8/SVneo cell culture supernatant was examined using tube formation assay. Following overexpression of Hes-related family BHLH transcription factor with YRPW motif 1 (HEY1) by transfection of pcDNA3.1 expression vector containing full-length human HEY1 or knockdown by transfection of shRNA plasmids targeting HEY1, the expression of HEY1 and PSMD14 was detected using RT-qPCR and western blotting. The potential interaction between HEY1 and the PSMD14 promoter was examined using dual-luciferase reporter and chromatin immunoprecipitation assays. PSMD14 overexpression was found to promote the proliferation, invasion, migration of HTR-8/SVneo cells and the angiogenesis of HUVECs following treatment with the HTR-8/SVneo cell culture supernatant, accompanied by enhanced expression of proliferation and migration-related proteins. Furthermore, the transcription factor HEY1 activated the expression of PSMD14. Knocking down HEY1 expression partially reversed the promoting effects of PSMD14 overexpression on the proliferation, invasion, migration, angiogenesis, proliferation and migration-related protein expression in trophoblasts. In conclusion, HEY1-activated PSMD14 promoted trophoblast proliferation, invasion and angiogenesis. Therefore, HEY1 and PSMD14 can be potential targets for PE treatment.Copyright: © Zhang et al.
Opioid use disorder (OUD) remains a critical global health challenge. The nucleus accumbens (NAc), a key region of the brain reward system, plays an essential role in opioid-induced neuroadaptations. Characterizing gene expression alterations in reward-system regions, such as the NAc, is essential for elucidating the molecular mechanisms underlying addiction. In recent years, bioinformatics has emerged as a rapidly advancing field and has played a pivotal role in elucidating molecular mechanisms and in advancing computational biology.This study aimed to characterize transcriptomic changes in the NAc of mice following chronic morphine administration using RNA sequencing and bioinformatic analysis.RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) data from morphine- and saline-treated mice were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus database via the Sequence Read Archive. Following quality control and alignment, differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified using the DESeq2 package in R. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses, as well as protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analyses, were performed to evaluate the functional implications of these genes.Principal component analysis (PCA) revealed distinct transcriptomic profiles between the morphine and control groups. A total of 143 DEGs were identified, including 125 up-regulated and 18 down-regulated genes. Enrichment analyses indicated significant involvement in synaptic signaling, ion transport, and neurodegenerative pathways. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis identified several hub genes, including fgf3 (fibroblast growth factor 3), mki67 (marker of proliferation Ki-67), grin2a/grin2b (glutamate receptor NMDA subunits 2A/2B), gli1 (GLI family zinc finger 1), and ago2 (argonaute RISC catalytic component 2), which are associated with synaptic plasticity, neurogenesis, and epigenetic regulation.Chronic morphine exposure induces widespread gene expression changes in the NAc, engaging pathways associated with synaptic remodeling, neuronal excitability, and addiction-related neuroplasticity. These findings provide a molecular framework for understanding opioid-induced adaptations and identify candidate targets, including N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subunits, fgf3, and ago2, for potential therapeutic intervention. Future studies should functionally validate these targets and evaluate their translational relevance in the context of OUD.Copyright © 2026, Pourmand et al.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42089370 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42066869 is a review article
SUMO-specific protease 3 (SENP3) was reported to be dysregulated in osteosarcoma and ovarian cancer. However, the role of SENP3 in carcinogenesis of papillary thyroid cancer (PTC) has not been defined. Herein, we found that the expression of SENP3 protein was upregulated in PTC tissues and cell lines. Then, a PTC cell line, K-1 cells were transfected with SENP3 overexpression plasmid (pcDNA-SENP3) or small interfering RNA targeting SENP3 (SENP3 siRNA). We found that SENP3 overexpression facilitated cell proliferation and invasion, induced cell cycle arrest at G0/G1 phase and inhibited apoptosis in PTC cells, whereas SENP3 knockdown showed the opposite results. We further found that SET domain bifurcated 1 (SETDB1) can be regulated by SENP3-dependent deSUMOylation. Furthermore, SUMOylation of SETDB1 promoted SETDB1 to form a complex with MBD1-containing chromatin-associated factor 1 (MCAF1), and in turn to occupy the promoter locus of GLI family zinc finger 2 (GLI2) gene to suppress GLI2 expression through trimethylation of histone H3 Lys9 (H3K9me3). Then rescue experiments showed that GLI2 overexpression reversed the effects of SENP3 silencing on K-1 cell functions. The PI3K/AKT pathway inhibitor XL147 suppressed the effects of SENP3 overexpression on K-1 cell behaviors. Additionally, SENP3 knockdown significantly inhibited the xenograft tumor growth of PTC in vivo. This study revealed that SENP3 promoted PTC progression in vitro and in vivo by deSUMOylating SETDB1, thereby relieving SETDB1-mediated repression of GLI2 H3K9 trimethylation, which may provide a potential therapeutic target for PTC.
There has been extensive interest in metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease and its more advanced stage, metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH). Although several studies have highlighted the importance of hepatocyte Notch signaling in MASH-related liver fibrosis, the role of macrophage Notch signaling in MASH-related fibrosis has been less explored. This study found that Notch1 signaling in hepatic macrophages was significantly activated in a high-fat diet (HFD)-induced mouse model of MASH. Depletion of myeloid Notch1 led to a significant reduction in disease progression in this HFD-induced MASH model, as evidenced by reduced hepatic inflammation, steatosis, and fibrosis in HFD-fed, myeloid-specific Notch1 knockout mice. Intriguingly, disruption of Notch1 suppressed the expression of Gli family zinc finger 1 (Gli1), a key transcription factor in the Hedgehog signaling pathway, and promoted M2-like macrophage polarization in the injured liver. Furthermore, the Notch1 deletion-mediated effects-namely, M2 macrophage polarization and the reduction in hepatic steatosis and fibrosis-were reversed by treatment with the Smoothened agonist (SAG) in HFD-fed mice. In vitro experiments further demonstrated that Notch1 deletion promoted a shift in macrophage polarization toward the M2 phenotype by inhibiting Gli1 expression. Collectively, these findings identify the Notch1-Gli1 axis as a novel regulator of macrophage polarization, hepatic inflammation, steatosis, and fibrosis in MASH.Copyright © 2026 American Society for Investigative Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The plant Peptidase Domain Containing Enzymes (PPPDE) gene family plays crucial roles in plant growth and development, stress response, and signal transduction. Building upon previous work where a deubiquitinating enzyme was identified as an interacting protein of Eucommia ulmoides farnesyl pyrophosphate synthase 1 (EuFPS1), a key enzyme in Eucommia ulmoides rubber biosynthesis, this study systematically identified 9 PPPDE family members encoding deubiquitinating isopeptidases with the peptidase domain C97 from the Eucommia ulmoides genome. The analysis of collinearity and phylogenetic relationships among 86 PPPDE and PPPDE-like proteins from five species, including Eucommia ulmoides, demonstrated a high degree of homology for PPPDEs in rubber-producing plants. The gene encoding the EuFPS1-interacting protein, Eucommia ulmoides peptidase domain-containing enzyme 8 (EuPPPDE8), was cloned. Yeast two-hybrid (Y2H) and Bimolecular Fluorescence Complementation (BiFC) assays confirmed the interaction between EuFPS1 and EuPPPDE8. It was found that under low-temperature conditions, the expression of the EuPPPDE8 was downregulated, while farnesyl pyrophosphate synthase enzyme activity and rubber content in Eucommia ulmoides also decreased significantly. Using EuPPPDE8 as bait, 23 potential interacting proteins were screened, including Eucommia ulmoides mahogunin ring finger 1 (EuMGRN1). Experiments confirmed the interaction between EuMGRN1 and EuPPPDE8. EuPPPDE8 was localized to the cytoplasm. It is hypothesized that EuPPPDE8 may also participate in the EuMGRN1-mediated proteolytic pathway, antagonizing EuMGRN1-regulated proteolysis through its deubiquitinating activity. By overexpressing and silencing the EuPPPDE8 gene, it was discovered that overexpression of EuPPPDE8 led to a significant 51.51% increase in Eucommia rubber compared to the wild type, whereas silencing the gene resulted in reduced rubber synthesis, reaching only 0.82 times the rubber content of the wild type. This proves that the EuPPPDE8 gene functions to promote Eucommia rubber biosynthesis. The research findings provide important foundational data for further elucidating the functional role of deubiquitination regulation in Eucommia ulmoides rubber biosynthesis.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Recurrent idiopathic severe fetal structural anomalies present major challenges for reproductive decision-making and genetic counselling. A non-consanguineous healthy Estonian couple had experienced two electively terminated pregnancies at 12-13 weeks' gestation due to unexplained major fetal malformations and one early miscarriage. Their three pregnancies had resulted in unaffected newborns. Exome sequencing of fetal tissues from both terminated pregnancies identified a homozygous rare missense variant in MGRN1 (mahogunin ring finger 1), c.881G>A, p.(Arg294His) (Genome Aggregation Database V.4.1.0 allele frequency<8×10⁻⁵; no homozygotes reported in any population database). MGRN1 functions as an E3 ubiquitin ligase critical for protein homeostasis and developmental signalling. The detected substitution compromises a conserved residue within the RING (Really Interesting New Gene) finger domain. Cascade testing revealed that the parents and one unaffected child were heterozygous carriers, while two healthy siblings were homozygous for the reference allele. Both affected fetuses displayed congenital malformations closely mirroring prenatal phenotypes reported in Mgrn1 homozygous mutant mice, including cardiac malformations (ventricular septal defect, outflow tract malposition, pulmonary artery hypoplasia) and abnormal left-right axis patterning. These findings provide the first evidence implicating MGRN1 in human congenital disease and support its role in early embryonic patterning.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2026. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ Group.
Activation of fibroblasts and excessive deposition of extracellular matrix are the primary causes of urethral stricture following injury. Pirfenidone (PFD) is an established antifibrotic drug approved for the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, however, its potential role in preventing urethral stricture remains unclear. In this study, we investigated the effects of PFD on urethral stricture after injury and explored the underlying mechanisms both in vivo and in vitro. Our results demonstrated that PFD effectively attenuated urethral stricture and fibrosis in mice and suppressed fibroblast proliferation, migration, and invasion while promoting apoptosis. Mechanistically, RNA sequencing revealed that PFD significantly inhibited the expression of hyaluronan synthase 2 (HAS2), a key regulator of fibroblast activity. In addition, PFD suppressed GLI family zinc finger 2 (Gli2) expression in a Sonic hedgehog (Shh)–independent manner, which mediated the regulation of HAS2 by PFD. Furthermore, we found that Gli2 reduced HAS2 expression through the TGF-β1/Smad signaling pathway. Collectively, these findings indicate that PFD may serve as a promising therapeutic candidate for the prevention and treatment of urethral stricture.
Metabolic reprogramming is a hallmark of clear-cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC), driving tumor progression and altering the tumor microenvironment (TME), making it crucial to understand metabolic dysregulation in ccRCC and to identify new therapeutic targets for patients. In this study, metabolomic profiling identified elevated levels of methylmalonic acid (MMA) in ccRCC, attributed to downregulation of methylmalonyl-CoA mutase (MMUT). MMA produced by ccRCC accumulates in the TME and activates the suppressor of fused (SUFU)-regulated Hedgehog signaling pathway in a dose-dependent manner, promoting M2 polarization of macrophages and tumor progression. Mechanistically, MMA induces methylmalonylation at the K499 site of ubiquitin-specific peptidase 36 (USP36), inhibiting USP36-mediated deubiquitination and SUMOylation of SUFU, thereby promoting the expression of GLI family zinc finger 1 (GLI1) and its target genes. Both in vitro and in vivo experiments demonstrated that a low branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs) diet or treatment with the de-methylmalonylation agent MC3138 effectively inhibited M2 polarization of macrophages and tumor progression. These findings emphasize the critical role of MMA in ccRCC pathogenesis and suggest that combining a low-BCAAs diet with MC3138 therapy may offer a promising treatment strategy for ccRCC patients with elevated MMA levels.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to ADMC Associazione Differenziamento e Morte Cellulare.
Medulloblastoma (MB) is the most common malignant tumor of the cerebellum in children. The Sonic Hedgehog (SHH) subgroup of MB (SHH-MB) is driven by aberrant activation of the SHH pathway; however, mutations in genes related to this pathway are relatively rare, posing challenges for therapeutic development. Glypican-6 (GPC6), a heparan sulfate proteoglycan, is highly expressed in SHH-MB. In this study, we demonstrate the synchronous expression of GPC6 with GLI family zinc finger 1 (GLI1) in both the developing cerebellum and medulloblastoma. GPC6 promotes cell proliferation, migration, and invasion in SHH-MB cell lines (DAOY and ONS-76). Consistently, GPC6 enhances the SHH pathway activity by upregulating GLI1 expression, supports ciliogenesis essential for signal transduction, and facilitates SHH ligand expression via extracellular vesicles. These findings suggest that GPC6 acts as a key regulator of SHH signaling and represents a potential therapeutic target in SHH-MB.
Hypospadias is a common congenital malformation of the male external genitalia, with severe cases presenting considerable surgical and long-term challenges. Despite the clinical importance of severe hypospadias demonstrated by prolonged hospital stays, repeated surgeries, and substantial costs, the genetic etiology of severe hypospadias remains incompletely understood, particularly in diverse populations. To determine the molecular basis, we performed whole-exome sequencing (WES) on 30 Chinese patients from southeastern China with confirmed 46,XY karyotypes. Our analysis identified clinically relevant genetic variants, including single-nucleotide variants (SNVs) and copy number variations (CNVs), with subsequent phenotypic correlation. Clinically relevant genetic variants were identified in 33.3% (10/30) of cases, including novel SNVs in gonadal regulators (nuclear receptor subfamily 5 group A member 1 [ NR5A1 ] c.1344dupC/c.244+1G>T and SRY-box 3 [ SOX3 ] c.1273G>C), morphogenetic modulators (GLI family zinc finger 3 [ GLI3 ] c.4731delA and aristaless-related homeobox [m ARX ] c.644C>G), and syndromic genes (patched domain containing 1 [ PTCHD1 ] c.667G>A and euchromatic histone lysine methyltransferase 1 [ EHMT1 ] c.3081C>T). Additionally, recurrent CNVs at 22q12.3 and a novel CNV exon 18 deletion in myelin regulatory factor ( MYRF ) and 18q11.2 were identified. Mutation carriers showed a significantly higher frequency of cryptorchidism (40.0% vs 5.0%, P < 0.01) and a higher prevalence of ≥3 associated malformations (80.0% vs 35.0%, P < 0.05) than non-carriers, highlighting genotype-phenotype correlations. The 33.3% diagnostic yield tripled conventional estimates, demonstrating WES efficacy in identifying SNVs and CNVs in severe phenotypes. These findings reveal the genetic heterogeneity of severe hypospadias and support WES utility in uncovering novel variants and structural genomic alterations.Copyright ©The Author(s)(2026).
GLI family zinc finger 3 (GLI3) is a transcription factor involved in limb development. GLI3 gene variants have been shown to be associated with several human congenital limb malformations, including Greig cephalopolysyndactyly, Pallister-Hall syndrome, non-syndromic postaxial polydactyly (PAP-A/B), and preaxial polydactyly type IV (PPD-IV). The aim of this study was to identify GLI3 gene variants in ten Chinese families with limb malformations.Ten Chinese families with limb malformations were recruited. Variant screening in probands was then performed using NGS, with candidate pathogenic variants verified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) combined with Sanger DNA sequencing. Variant pathogenicity was evaluated using bioinformatics, evolutionary conservation, and disease and mutant allele co-segregation approaches. The biological effects of missense variants were predicted by three-dimensional protein conformation analysis.Ten GLI3 variants were identified: two missense variants c.1063G>A (p.Val355Ile) and c.1489C>A (p.Leu497Ile), four nonsense variants c.2374C>T (p.Arg792*), c.2008C>T (p.Gln670*), c.1096 C>T (p.Arg366*), and c.2029C>T (p.Gln677*); three frameshift variants c.600delC (p.Tyr200*), c.1880_1881del (p.His627Argfs*48), and c.811_812delCT (p.Leu271Serfs*5); a large fragment deletion of NC_000007.14: g.42061081_42069739. Seven of these ten variants have never been recorded in the Human Gene Variant Database.Ten GLI3 variants were successfully identified in families with different limb malformations, indicating significant clinical and allelic heterogeneity of GLI3-related limb malformations. The present study expands the spectra of pathogenic variants and clinical manifestation for GLI3-related morphological disorder and provides solid evidence for genetic counseling and prenatal gene diagnosis in the affected families.Copyright © 2025 Tao, Gu, Wang, Shen and Zhao.
A comprehensive understanding of the genome-wide regulatory landscape of the cardiac tissues post-myocardial infarction (MI) is still lacking. We therefore integrated single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and single-cell for transposase-accessible chromatin sequencing (scATAC-seq) to elucidate the epigenetic landscape of the heart post-MI.We established MI mice through ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery, and obtained cardiac tissues from mice at 1-, 3-, 7-, and 14-days post-MI. Integrative analyses of the scRNA-seq and scATAC-seq data revealed the presence of two novel fibroblast subpopulations in the cardiac tissues of MI mice, termed GATA-binding protein 5/ISL LIM Homeobox 1 (GATA5/ISL1)+ fibroblasts and GLI family zinc finger 3 (Gli3)high fibroblasts. The GATA5/ISL1+ fibroblasts were characterized by fibroblast and cardiomyocyte signatures and were found to play a crucial role in cardiac repair post-MI. Moreover, adenoviral-mediated overexpression of GATA5 and ISL1 ameliorated cardiac function and attenuated myocardial fibrosis in the MI mice. RNA sequencing confirmed that GATA5 and ISL1 co-regulate Wnt signalling pathway to promote the transformation of fibroblasts into functional cardiomyocytes. Furthermore, analysis of the human cardiac tissues of MI patients also revealed the presence of GATA5/ISL1+ fibroblasts in the scar tissues, suggesting their crucial role in cardiac tissue repair post-MI. In addition, proteomic analyses revealed enhanced cardiac repair and development signalling in the GATA5/ISL1-overexpressing human cardiac fibroblasts.The study provides novel perspectives on the mechanisms of myocardial injury and repair at the single-cell level and indicates the potential role of GATA5 and ISL1 as therapeutic targets for MI treatment.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Transcription factors (TF) are the central regulatory hubs of signaling pathways in eukaryotic cells. Here, we explored the abnormal expression of TF in septic-induced lung injury by sequencing.The levels of target proteins were detected using Western Blot and Elisa. Cell function was evaluated using CCK8 and transwell assays. A double luciferase reporter assay was performed to detect interactions between target molecules.We found that TF glioma-associated oncogene (GLI) family zinc finger 3 (GLI3) was abnormally low expressed in a lipopolysaccharide (LPS) induced acute lung injury (ALI) cell model. In an in vitro model, GLI3 overexpression promoted the proliferation and migration and inhibited apoptosis of lung epithelial cells in LPS-induced inflammatory environment. Importantly, GLI3 overexpression inhibited the secretion of inflammatory factors IL-1β, IL-6, and TNF-α. Additionally, miR-143-3p inhibited the expression of GLI3. MiR-143-3p inhibitor alleviated the cell damage caused by LPS, while knocking down GLI3 counteracted this effect, indicating that miR-143-3p downregulated GLI3 and inhibited its anti-inflammatory effect. Secreted frizzled related protein-1 (SFRP1) was upregulated in LPS-treated cells and SFRP1 promoter interacted with GLI3, suggesting that SFRP1 was a target of TF GLI3. Co-transfection with GLI3 knockdown and SFRP1 overexpression plasmids attenuated the secretion of inflammatory factors IL- 1β, IL-6, and TNF-α caused by GLI3 knockdown in LPS-treated cells, indicating that SFRP1 plays an anti-inflammatory role as a GLI3 target in the ALI cell model.miR-143-3p caused degradation of GLI3 mRNA and thus inhibited the transcription of SFRP1, leading to decreased proliferation and increased levels of inflammatory factors, providing new potential targets for the clinical diagnosis and treatment of ALI.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) is one of the most refractory malignancies with a grave prognosis. 2-Methoxy-4-vinylpenol (2M4VP) is a well-known flavonoid having beneficial functions in human health including an anti-cancer effect in various malignant tumours. However, the anti-cancer effect of 2M4VP against CCA remains ambiguous.The present study aimed to investigate the bio-activity of 2M4VP in human CCA.Biological activities of 2M4VP were examined using in vitro assays. Prognostic values were assessed using Kaplan-Meier and Liptak's z score analyses.2M4VP significantly attenuated the anti-migratory features of CCA cells when compared to human intrahepatic bile duct epithelial cells (HIBEpiC), but not in viability. The anti-cancer effect of 2M4VP was induced by down-regulating the expression of cellular sonic hedgehog (Shh) signalling molecule such as GLI family zinc finger 3 (GLI3). In addition, 2M4VP treatment evoked a synergic anti-cancer effect when used in combination with gemcitabine. Furthermore, high GLI3 expression was significantly associated with a poor prognosis in patients with CCA.These results collectively indicate that 2M4VP might be a natural reagent against CCA metastasis, functioning through the ablating Shh signalling associated GLI3 expression, which provides the rationale for further investigation and a potential clinical trial using 2M4VP against CCA.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Polydactyly is a prevalent congenital anomaly with an incidence of 2.14 per 1000 live births in China. GLI family zinc finger 3 (GLI3) is a classical causative gene of polydactyly, and serves as a pivotal transcription factor in the hedgehog signaling pathway, regulating the development of the anterior-posterior axis in limbs.Three pedigrees of polydactyly patients were enrolled from Hunan Province, China. Pathogenic variants were identified by whole-exome sequencing (WES) and Sanger sequencing.Three variants in GLI3 were identified in three unrelated families, including a novel deletion variant (c.1372del, p.Thr458GlnfsTer44), a novel insertion-deletion (indel) variant (c.1967_1968delinsAA, p.Ser656Ter), and a nonsense variant (c.2374 C > T, p.Arg792Ter). These variants were present exclusively in patients but not in healthy individuals.We identified three pathogenic GLI3 variants in polydactyly patients, broadening the genetic spectrum of GLI3 and contributing significantly to genetic counseling and diagnosis for polydactyly.© 2024. The Author(s).
Tumors of the head and neck, more specifically the squamous cell carcinoma, often show upregulation of the Hedgehog signaling pathway. However, almost nothing is known about its role in the sinonasal adenocarcinoma, either in intestinal or non-intestinal subtypes. In this work, we have analyzed immunohistochemical staining of six Hedgehog pathway proteins, sonic Hedgehog (SHH), Indian Hedgehog (IHH), Patched1 (PTCH1), Gli family zinc finger 1 (GLI1), Gli family zinc finger 2 (GLI2), and Gli family zinc finger 3 (GLI3), on 21 samples of sinonasal adenocarcinoma and compared them with six colon adenocarcinoma and three salivary gland tumors, as well as with matching healthy tissue, where available. We have detected GLI2 and PTCH1 in the majority of samples and also GLI1 in a subset of samples, while GLI3 and the ligands SHH and IHH were generally not detected. PTCH1 pattern of staining shows an interesting pattern, where healthy samples are mostly positive in the stromal compartment, while the signal shifts to the tumor compartment in tumors. This, taken together with a stronger signal of GLI2 in tumors compared to non-tumor tissues, suggests that the Hedgehog pathway is indeed activated in sinonasal adenocarcinoma. As Hedgehog pathway inhibitors are being tested in combination with other therapies for head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, this could provide a therapeutic option for patients with sinonasal adenocarcinoma as well.
Novel duck reovirus (NDRV) is a newly identified reovirus that brings about more severe damage on multiple organs and mortality in various species of waterfowl. We previously characterized the transcriptomic profiles responding to NDRV in the bursa of Fabricius of Muscovy ducklings, which is a major immunological organ against virus infection. However, the molecular mechanisms of variant cell responses in the bursa of Fabricius to NDRV with different virulence is unclear. Here, we conducted a whole transcriptomic analysis to study the effects of two strains, HN10 (virulent NDRV) and JDm10 (artificially attenuated NDRV), on the bursa of Fabricius of Muscovy ducklings. We harvested a large number of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) of the bursa of Fabricius specially induced by HN10 and JDm10, and we found that HN10 induced DEGs enriched in differentiation and development in multiple organs beyond JDm10. Moreover, the ceRNA regulatory network also indicated the different connections among mRNA, lncRNA and miRNA. Interestingly, we further noticed that a population of differential expressed miRNA could particularly target to transcripts of HN10 and JDm10. We took miR-24 as an example and observed that miR-24 could reduce the transcription of GLI family zinc finger 3 (Gli3) and membrane-associated guanylate kinase, WW and PDZ domain containing 1 (Magi1) via recognition 3' UTR of these two genes by a dual luciferase reporter gene assay in vitro. However, this effect could be compromised by HN10 infection or the ectopic over-expression of the putative miR-24 targeting regions in L1 and L3 fragments of HN10. Taken together, we examined and proposed a novel regulatory competitive mechanism between transcripts of NDRV and Muscovy ducklings for miRNA. These findings may advance the understanding of the molecular pathogenesis of NDRV in Muscovy ducklings, and help provide the potential targets for vaccine and drug development against NDRV.
T helper 17 (Th17) cells contribute to the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD). However, their heterogeneity and regulatory mechanisms in IBD are not completely disclosed. A mouse colitis model was established. Th17 cells were enriched from the mesenteric lymph nodes (mLN) and lamina propria (LP). The phenotypes and functions of Th17 subsets were analyzed by flow cytometry, Immunoblotting, and real-time RT-PCR. The contributions of the Th17 subsets to colitis pathogenesis were evaluated by histology, ELISA, and flow cytometry after adoptive transfer. Smoothened (SMO), GLI family zinc finger 1 (Gli1), and GLI family zinc finger 3 (Gli3) were markedly up-regulated while Patched 1 (PTCH1) was down-regulated in LP Th17 cells in colitic lamina propria. Based on the expression of PTCH1 and C-C motif chemokine receptor 6 (CCR6), LP Th17 cells were divided into a PTCH1lowCCR6low Th17 subset and a PTCH1highCCR6high Th17 subset. The former expressed higher T-bet, IFN-γ, TNF-α, IL-1β, and GM-CSF but lower IL-17A, IL-22, IL-17F, and Gli3 than the latter. The PTCH1highCCR6high Th17 subset was more resistant to polarization towards T helper 1 (Th1) than the PTCH1lowCCR6low Th17 subset. Moreover, the PTCH1highCCR6high Th17 subset was more competent to maintain Th17 identity. The PTCH1highCCR6high Th17 subset induced less severe colitis than the PTCH1lowCCR6low Th17 subset. PTCH1highCCR6high Th17 cells are Th17 cells whereas PTCH1lowCCR6low Th17 cells are Th1-like Th17 cells. Our study deepens the understanding of Th17 heterogeneity and plasticity in colitis.
Preaxial polydactyly (PPD) is a common congenital abnormality with an incidence of 0.8-1.4% in Asians, characterized by the presence of extra digit(s) on the preaxial side of the hand or foot. PPD is genetically classified into four subtypes, PPD type I-IV. Variants in six genes/loci [including GLI family zinc finger 3 (GLI3), ZPA regulatory sequence (ZRS), and pre-ZRS region] have been identified in PPD cases. Among these loci, ZRS is, perhaps, the most special and well known, but most articles only reported one or a few cases. There is a lack of reports on the ZRS-variant frequency in patients with PPD. In this study, we recruited 167 sporadic or familial cases (including 154 sporadic patients and 13 families) with PPD from Central-South China and identified four ZRS variants in four patients (2.40%, 4/167), including two novel variants (ZRS131A > T/chr7:g.156584439A > T and ZRS474C > G/chr7:g.156584096C > G) and two known variants (ZRS428T > A/chr7:g.156584142T > A and ZRS619C > T/chr7:g.156583951C > T). ZRS131A > T and ZRS428T > A were detected in PPD I cases and ZRS474C > G and ZRS619C > T combinedly acted to cause PPD II. The detectable rate of ZRS variants in PPD I was 1.60% (2/125), while PPD II was significantly higher (9.52%, 2/21). Three bilateral PPD cases harbored ZRS variants (13.64%, 3/22), suggesting that bilateral PPD was more possibly caused by genetic etiologies. This study identified two novel ZRS variants, further confirmed the association between ZRS and PPD I and reported a rare PPD II case resulted from the compound heterozygote of ZRS. This investigation preliminarily evaluated a ZRS variants rate in patients with PPD and described the general picture of PPD in Central-South China.Copyright © 2022 Zeng, Jin, Luo, Sheng, Wu and Xiang.
Berberis vulgaris (B. vulgaris) L. (Berberidaceae), deeply rooted in Iranian traditional medicine, exhibits significant antidiabetic potential attributed to its berberine content. This plant has been historically used for its glucose-lowering, anti-oxidant, and anti-inflammatory properties. This research investigated berberine's capacity to regenerate pancreatic β-cells in type 1 diabetic rats, specifically examining its dose-dependent effects on metabolic recovery, histopathological restoration, and molecular mechanisms underlying β-cell regeneration.Two groups of streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats received daily oral berberine (50 and 100 mg/kg) for 60 days. We measured berberine half-life and gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA) levels using high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with ultraviolet-visible (Uv/Vis) and fluorescence detection (FD). Fasting blood sugar (FBS), lipid profiles, liver enzymes, insulin, and gastrin were assessed. Pancreatic histopathology (islet damage) and pancreatic and duodenal homeobox 1 (Pdx1) expression were analyzed.Berberine exhibited a 60-min half-life, with blood concentration declining to 0.63 and 0.95 µmol/l within 90 min. Treatment significantly elevated GABA levels (3.0 and 3.8 mg/dl vs diabetic group: 0.44 mg/dl) and reduced FBS by 50% (327 and 296 mg/dl vs diabetic group: 616 mg/dl). Gastrin levels increased to 8.70 and 8.93 pg/ml (vs diabetic group: 5.96 pg/ml). Histopathology revealed reduced islet shrinkage and vacuolization. Pdx1 expression was increased in the treated groups compared with diabetic controls.Berberine from B. vulgaris effectively stimulates pancreatic β-cell regeneration, as evidenced by restored histoarchitecture, up-regulated Pdx1, and sustained glycemic control despite rapid clearance. This validates its traditional antidiabetic use and positions berberine as a promising disease-modifying agent.
The retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) plays a pivotal role in retinal homeostasis and energy metabolism. A recent study demonstrates that RPE cells release insulin in response to photoreceptor outer segment (POS) phagocytosis and starvation conditions. However, the downstream signalling pathway of this local insulin production has not yet been identified. Therefore, using the ARPE-19 cell line as an in vitro model of human RPE, we have investigated insulin signalling in basal conditions and after rod OS phagocytosis. Our data show that ARPE-19 cells express key pancreatic β-cell markers, including the transcription factor Pancreatic and Duodenal Homeobox-1 (PDX-1), which translocates to the nucleus in response to phagocytosis, and prohormone convertase 1/3 (PC1/3). In addition, ARPE-19 cells synthesize and secrete insulin already in basal conditions, increasing their release after phagocytosis. The RPE-secreted insulin acts in an autocrine manner, activating the canonical insulin signalling pathway and leading to increased phosphorylation of insulin receptor (IR), insulin receptor substrate-1 (IRS-1), and AKT. An upregulation of the insulin-responsive glucose transporter GLUT4 and increased glucose uptake was also observed, fueling the ARPE-19 cells' oxidative energy metabolism, incrementing the oxidative phosphorylation activity, probably to sustain the high energy demand associated with phagocytosis. At the same time, a decrease in lactate release has been observed. These features may have important implications for understanding retinal energy metabolism and developing novel therapeutic strategies for retinal neurodegenerative diseases.© 2026. The Author(s).
Copyright: &copy; 2026 Adeyika et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License (CC BY 4.0), which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited. Aberrant DNA methylation changes lead to abnormal gene expression that contributes to the development and progression of prostate cancer (PCa). Inquiry of genome-wide DNA methylation dataset, we identified the homeodomain pancreatic and duodenal homeobox 1 (PDX1) gene as differentially hypermethylated in PCa compared to normal prostate tissues. Immunohistochemical analysis of matched PCa and normal prostate tissues using tissue microarray showed a significant 2.33-fold (p = 0.0001) higher PDX1 protein expression in the PCa compared to the normal prostate tissues. In PCa cell lines (PC-3 and LNCaP) engineered to stably overexpress or knockdown PDX1, the ectopic PDX1 expression significantly enhanced cell proliferation and migration, whereas PDX1 knockdown suppressed these phenotypic processes. Quantitative RT-PCR and Western blot analysis demonstrated that PDX1 overexpression was associated with increased expression of key metabolic regulators; INSR, IGF1R, CXCR4, CDH2, TWIST1, and SNAI1, whereas there is decreased expression of ESR2, and TNF&#x03B1;. Conversely, PDX1 knockdown led to the opposite effect in expression profiles of these metabolites. Notably, these effects were more pronounced under high-glucose conditions compared to low-glucose environments. Overall, our findings suggest that PDX1 plays a tumor-promoting role in human PCa cells by influencing expression of metabolites in insulin, inflammatory, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) signaling pathways. Given its potential role in metabolic regulation, full insights into the function of PDX1 in PCa could contribute to improved treatment and prevention strategies, particularly for men with PCa and comorbidities such as obesity and diabetes.
Pancreatic and duodenal homeobox 1 (PDX1) is a key transcription factor required for pancreatic development and maintenance of β-cell function. Genetic variants in PDX1 have been associated with monogenic forms of diabetes, including maturity-onset diabetes of the young type 4 (MODY4). However, the func-tional consequences of many reported non-synonymous single-nucleotide polymorphisms (nsSNPs) in PDX1 remain unclear. In this study, an integrated in silico approach was applied to systematically identify and characterize po-tentially deleterious nsSNPs in the PDX1 gene.Missense variants were retrieved from public databases and evaluated using multiple sequence- and structure-based prediction tools to assess functional impact, disease association, protein stability, and structural consequences. Variants considered deleterious were further examined through three-dimensional structural modeling and molecular dynamics simulation.Several nsSNPs were identified with consistent predictions of pathogenicity, reduced protein stability, and pronounced structural and dynamic perturbations. Variants including R197G, Y170N, and T151K in the PDX1 Protein were considered the highest deleterious mutants.These findings will provide insight into the molecular mechanisms by which PDX1 mutations may contribute to β-cell dysfunction and diabetes development and offer a rational framework for prior-itizing variants for experimental validation and clinical interpretation.
The global prevalence of type 2 diabetes (T2D) continues to rise, with non-obese phenotypes particularly common in East Asian populations. Our previous study in male mice demonstrated that the intake of excessive high-fructose corn syrup (HFCS) under energy restriction impairs glucose tolerance without inducing obesity. This study aimed to elucidate female-specific mechanisms underlying glucose regulation under similar dietary conditions.Early middle-aged female ICR mice were randomly assigned to either the HFCS group or the control group. In the HFCS group, mice were given free access to HFCS water, and the energy intake was adjusted to be the same as that in the control group using a standard rodent diet. After 16 weeks, glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity were assessed via the oral glucose tolerance and insulin tolerance tests, respectively. Pancreatic morphology, gene expression, and serum biochemical and hormonal parameters were analyzed.Glucose tolerance and islet size distribution were comparable between the HFCS and control groups. The HFCS group, however, exhibited lower insulin secretion and reduced pancreatic weight relative to controls. mRNA levels of insulin II, pancreatic and duodenal homeobox 1, glucose transporter 2, and glucokinase were similar between groups, whereas ketohexokinase mRNA tended to be elevated in the HFCS group. In addition, the mRNA levels of glutaminase and glutamate dehydrogenase 1 were higher than those in controls. Serum leptin and insulin-like growth factor I showed upward trends in the HFCS group, and glucagon-like peptide-1 levels were significantly increased compared with controls.Excessive HFCS intake under energy restriction diminished insulin secretion but preserved glucose tolerance in female mice, which might be attributable to extrapancreatic hormonal compensation and adaptive metabolic responses.Copyright © 2026, International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
This study investigated the therapeutic potential of cannabidiol (CBD) and aerobic training (AT), both alone and in combination, to ameliorate beta-cell dysfunction in a rat model of diet-induced obesity, with a specific focus on the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/ protein Kinase B (AKT)/pancreatic and duodenal homeobox 1 (PDX1) pathway.Thirty-two male Wistar rats were fed a high-fat diet (HFD) for 8 weeks to induce obesity. They were then randomly assigned to four groups (n = 8/group): HFD (sedentary), HFD + CBD (10 mg/kg, 5x/week), HFD + AT (30-minute treadmill running,50-80% maximal speed, 5x/week, 8 week), and HFD + CBD+AT (combined treatment) for a further 8 weeks. Following the intervention, beta-cell function was assessed via the HOMA-Beta index, and pancreatic gene expression of PI3K, AKT, and PDX1 was analyzed using RT-PCR.Both the HFD + CBD and HFD + CBD+AT groups showed a significant improvement in beta-cell function, as indicated by a higher HOMA-Beta index compared to the HFD group (p = 0.002 and p = 0.001, respectively). AT alone (HFD + AT) did not significantly alter HOMA-Beta. In contrast, all intervention groups (HFD + CBD, HFD + AT, and HFD + CBD+AT) demonstrated a significant upregulation in the gene expression of PI3K, AKT, and PDX1 compared to the HFD group (p < 0.001 for all). Notably, the combined treatment of CBD and AT (HFD + CBD+AT) produced a synergistic effect, resulting in a greater increase in the expression of all three genes compared to either intervention alone. No significant correlation was found between HOMA-Beta and the gene expression levels within any group (p > 0.05).CBD and AT independently activate the pancreatic PI3K/AKT/PDX1 pathway, with their combination showing synergy. CBD, but not AT alone, improved functional beta-cell mass. This pathway activation represents a key mechanism for protecting beta-cells in obesity.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) has poor prognosis as early-stage asymptomaticity leads to late-stage diagnoses. Strategies to detect PDAC earlier or identify high-risk individuals are therefore paramount. Here, we report results from genetically engineered mice and PDAC patients that identify serum proteins associated with pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasms (PanINs), the most common PDAC precursor, and early-stage PDAC. Initially, we screened previously described PanIN-abundant mice, harbouring pancreatic and duodenal homeobox 1 (Pdx1)-Cre, Lox-STOP-Lox-KrasG12D/+ and floxed alleles of essential autophagy genes autophagy-related 7 (Atg7) or autophagy-related 5 (Atg5). Sera from these mice were assessed by proteomics and hits were compared to those in Lox-STOP-Lox-KrasG12D/+ Lox-STOP-Lox-Trp53R172H/+ Pdx1-Cre (KPC) mice, which closely recapitulate human disease, and early-stage (I-II) PDAC patients. Levels of inter-alpha-trypsin inhibitor heavy chain H3 (ITIH3) were significantly elevated in all three screens, with complement C5, complement factors B and H (CFB/CFH), and monocyte differentiation antigen CD14 increased in KPC mice and PDAC patients; and all were significantly increased co-ordinately in PDAC according to disease stage. Serum levels of C5, CFH and CD14 together constitute a novel panel for identifying PanINs and early-stage PDAC with confidence, and when combined with additional screening, could help increase survival from this dismal disease.© 2026 The Author(s). Molecular Oncology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.
Diabetes mellitus is a major global health burden characterized by hyperglycemia, oxidative stress, and progressive pancreatic β-cell dysfunction. Despite the availability of conventional therapies, the need for safer and more effective alternatives persists. Citrullus lanatus (African watermelon) is a fruit rich in bioactive compounds with reported antihyperglycemic and antioxidant properties. This study investigated the modulatory effects of C. lanatus juice on pancreatic and duodenal homeobox 1 (PDX1) gene expression and glycemic control in fortified-diet-fed streptozotocin-induced diabetic Wistar rats. Thirty-six rats weighing 90-110 g, were randomized into six groups: normal control (NMC), diabetic control (DBC), metformin-treated diabetic rats (DBM, 500 mg/kg), and diabetic rats treated with C. lanatus juice at 200 mg/kg (DBCL1), 500 mg/kg (DBCL2), and 1000 mg/kg (DBCL3). Animals were pre-fed either normal or fortified diets prior to diabetes induction with streptozotocin (35 mg/kg). Following 14 days of treatment, blood and pancreatic tissues were analyzed for glycemic, antioxidant, and molecular parameters. C. lanatus juice significantly (p < 0.05) reduced fasting blood glucose in a dose-dependent manner, with the greatest effect observed in DBCL3. Antioxidant enzymes (catalase, superoxide dismutase, and glutathione peroxidase) were significantly increased, while malondialdehyde levels were reduced in all treated groups. Notably, PDX1 gene expression was markedly upregulated (p < 0.05) in C. lanatus-treated rats, accompanied by improved insulin, C-peptide, and HDL levels. These findings suggest that C. lanatus juice exerts antidiabetic effects that are associated with increased PDX1 mRNA expression, improved glycemic control, and reduced oxidative stress, supporting a potential role for transcriptional modulation of β-cell function, highlighting its potential as a functional dietary intervention for type 2 diabetes management.© 2025. The Author(s).
Diabetes mellitus affects the body's ability to regulate glucose and maintain insulin homeostasis. It has been linked to complications in the heart, kidneys, eyes, and other organs. Recent studies have reported that triazole derivatives can act as antidiabetic drugs. Therefore, this study aimed to evaluate the effects of two newly synthesized triazole derivatives (MMTN and MPTN) of nalidixic acid on streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetes in mice.Nalidixic acid was transformed into 1-ethyl-3-[5-mercapto-4-methyl-(4H)-1,2,4- triazol- 3-yl]-7-methyl-1,8-naphthyridin4(1H)-one (MMTN) and 1-ethyl-3-[5-mercapto- 4-phenyl-(4H)-1,2,4-triazol-3-yl]-7-methyl-1,8-naphthyridin-4(1H)-one (MPTN), through a multistep synthesis process. Forty adult male mice were divided into four groups (n=10): a control group, a diabetic group, a diabetic group treated with MMTN (100 mg/kg i.p), and a diabetic group treated with MPTN (50 mg/kg i.p). Diabetes was induced by intraperitoneal injection of STZ (50 mg/kg) for five consecutive days.After 18 days, serum and pancreas samples were collected for analysis. Serum glucose levels were increased, pancreatic total antioxidant capacity (TAC) was decreased, and pancreatic malondialdehyde (MDA) levels were increased in the diabetic group.However, the treatment of diabetic mice with the two compounds caused a notable reduction in blood glucose levels, a rise in serum insulin levels, a decrease in pancreatic MDA, and an increase in TAC levels. Furthermore, pancreatic and duodenal homeobox 1 gene (PDX-1) and insulin 1(INS-1) mRNA expression levels in the pancreas were upregulated in the diabetic + MMTN or MPTN-treated groups.The synthetic compounds exhibited significant anti-hyperglycemic and antioxidant activity, protected and enhanced the function of pancreatic β-cells, and stimulated insulin secretion.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
In this editorial, we highlight the study by Wang et al published in a recent issue of the World Journal of Diabetes. Type 2 diabetes is increasingly recognized as a β-cell dysfunction disorder, with apoptosis and dedifferentiation being key factors in insulin secretion loss. β-cell dedifferentiation is a regression from a mature insulin-secretory phenotype to a progenitor-like state, characterized by the loss of key transcription factors such as pancreatic and duodenal homeobox 1 and MAF bZIP transcription factor A, and the ectopic expression of developmental markers such as neurogenin 3 and aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 family member A3. This editorial discusses the key role of metabolic stress-saturated fatty acids and high glucose-in triggering dedifferentiation through endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and repression of the forkhead box protein O1 (FoxO1) transcription factor. The study by Wang et al demonstrated how ER dysfunction and FoxO1 suppression collaborate to destabilize β-cell identity. Notably, evidence suggests that this process can be reversed under certain circumstances, with potential for therapies aiming to redifferentiate β-cells or prevent identity loss. We also outline the therapeutic potential of modulating ER stress pathways, controlling FoxO1 activity, and developing biomarkers to track β-cell plasticity in patients. Overall, β-cell dedifferentiation knowledge and manipulation offer new avenues for the treatment of diabetes by restoring functional β-cell mass.©The Author(s) 2025. Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights reserved.
Neurological impairments resulting from bilirubin encephalopathy represent a hallmark of bilirubin's neurotoxic effects. Earlier research suggests that bilirubin may contribute to Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology by inducing neuronal necrosis and abnormal tau phosphorylation. Nevertheless, the precise mechanisms linking bilirubin to neurodegeneration in both neonates and adults remain unclear. To address this, we established two complementary models: a pathological jaundice model using UGT1A1⁻/⁻ neonatal mice and an adult bilirubin exposure model via lateral ventricle injection, followed by brain tissue sequencing. Integrating bioinformatics analyses with multiple AD datasets, we uncovered regulatory effects of bilirubin exposure on neurodegenerative processes across age groups. Machine learning approaches identified two key genes, BCL2-binding component 3 (Bbc3) and Mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase 10 (Map3k10), as central mediators of bilirubin-induced neuroinjury in pathological jaundice. In adults, bilirubin exposure also promoted neuroinflammation. Notably, effector memory CD8⁺ T cells emerged as critical drivers of AD-associated neuroinflammation, and four additional biomarkers were identified to construct a high-performance diagnostic model. Together, these findings highlight potential biomarkers for diagnosing and monitoring bilirubin-induced neurological damage and provide a basis for developing targeted diagnostic and therapeutic strategies for AD.© 2025. The Author(s).
This study investigated the impact of lidocaine-induced neurotoxicity on microRNA (miRNA) expression in the spinal cord of rats. Sprague-Dawley rats underwent intrathecal catheterization and were randomly assigned to receive either 10% lidocaine or normal saline for three consecutive days. Post-treatment, the paw withdrawal threshold significantly increased, accompanied by notable histopathological changes. Additionally, 470 miRNAs exhibited altered expression following lidocaine treatment, with miR-155-5p, miR-3544, and miR-675-5p showing significant changes. Gene Ontology analysis identified cellular metabolic processes as the most significantly enriched functions. Kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes pathway analysis revealed that the enriched signaling pathways are associated with neural injury and neuroprotection, and are involved in regulating cellular metabolism. The Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway was notably enriched, with Mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase 10 (Map3k10) and Mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase 14 (Map3k14) identified as target genes of miR-155-5p. Following lidocaine treatment, there was an observed increase in the expression of MAP3K10 and MAP3K14 at both the mRNA and protein levels. These results indicate that miR-155-5p, miR-3544, and miR-675-5p might be significantly involved in lidocaine-induced neurotoxicity by influencing cellular metabolism. Furthermore, miR-155-5p/MAPK shows potential therapeutic value for treating lidocaine-induced neurotoxicity.
The goal of this study was to explore the association between mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase 10 (MAP3K10) methylation and blood lipid levels and intracranial aneurysm (IA) risk.A total of 96 age- and sex-matched investigators participated in the assessment of MAP3K10 methylation. Fourteen CpG sites of the MAP3K10 gene were selected for methylated-pyrosequencing. Human brain vascular smooth muscle cell was used to assess the regulatory role of DNA methylation in MAP3K10 gene transcription.MAP3K10 mean methylation was positively correlated with triglyceride (TG, r = 0.388; p = 0.007) in men, but negatively correlated with TG (r = -0.434; p = 0.002) in women. MAP3K10 methylation in patients with IA was significantly lower than that in controls (p < 0.05), and this phenomenon was more significant in women (12 CpG sites presented significance at p < 0.05). MAP3K10 methylation might be a potential predictor of the risk of IA (CpG1, AUC = 0.81, p < 0.001; mean methylation, AUC = 0.69, p = 0.001). The predictive value was also more significant in women (CpG1: AUC = 0.86, p < 0.001; mean methylation: AUC = 0.73, p = 0.006). No significant association was found between DNA methylation and MAP3K10 gene transcription in vitro experiment.Patients with IA had lower MAP3K10 methylation levels than healthy controls. MAP3K10 methylation may be a potential predictor of IA risk, particularly in women.Copyright © 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Poor tendon-bone healing is a major challenge after anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR). TFRD, the total flavonoids of Rhizoma Drynariae, has pharmacological effects in promoting bone formation, but it remains less understood whether it accelerates tendon-bone healing by regulating the osteogenic differentiation of tendon-derived stem cells (TDSCs). TDSCs were isolated from the Achilles tendons of rats and characterized for their stem cell properties through flow cytometry and multilineage differentiation assays. The effects of TFRD on TDSC proliferation, migration, and osteogenic differentiation were evaluated using the cell counting kit-8 assay, scratch wound healing assays, Alizarin Red S staining, and Western blot analysis. Gene and protein expression levels associated with the transforming growth factor-β/bone morphogenetic protein (TGF-β/BMP) signaling pathway were assessed by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction and Western blot. A rat ACLR model was created and divided into four experimental groups: Sham, ACLR, TFRD, and TFRD + Noggin. Tendon-bone healing was analyzed using hematoxylin and eosin staining, Masson's trichrome staining, bone mineral density measurements, and immunohistochemistry. Noggin was used to inhibit BMP signaling for pathway validation. TFRD (50-100 μg/mL) significantly enhanced the proliferation, migration, and osteogenic differentiation of TDSCs, and increased the expression of key osteogenic markers, including runt-related transcription factor 2 (RUNX2) and alkaline phosphatase (ALP). Mechanistically, TFRD activated the TGF-β/BMP signaling pathway, leading to elevated levels of TGF-β1, BMP-2, and phosphorylated Smad1/5/8. Moreover, TGF-β1 extended the duration of BMP-2 signaling and suppressed Noggin expression. The osteogenic effects of TFRD were diminished when Noggin was applied, indicating its role in modulating the BMP pathway. In vivo, TFRD significantly improved collagen fiber alignment, calcification, and bone mineral density at the tendon-bone junction, while also upregulating RUNX2 and ALP expression. TFRD promotes osteogenic differentiation of TDSCs by activating the TGF-β/BMP signaling pathway, improves tendon-bone healing after ACLR, and provides experimental support for its clinical application.© 2026. The Society for In Vitro Biology.
Patient-derived organoids (PDOs) can recapitulate selected features of original tumors and provide a useful system for studying epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) in three-dimensional culture. Nonetheless, the protocol to generate EOC-PDOs has not yet been standardized. We therefore empirically refined the culture conditions and medium composition, considering the protocol effective when EOC PDOs were successfully established in five consecutive attempts. Tissue and ascites samples (from 29 and 8 patients, respectively) were used and the Syringe-extruded Organoid Basement membrane extract Assembly (SOBA) fragment culture method applied. Selected similarities in cell morphology, marker expression, and detectable alterations between organoids and patient-matched tumor tissue were assessed using pairwise comparisons. The refined workflow used a culture medium containing recombinant human R-Spondin 1 protein (250 ng/mL), Noggin, and NRG1, factors implicated in organoid maintenance and expansion. Ultimately, 31 EOC organoid lines successfully generated from 82.8% (24/29) of tissue and 87.5% (7/8) of ascites samples. The SOBA technique increased the 10 day PDO yield by 2.75-fold relative to the surface-attached dome method (p < 0.0001). This empirically refined workflow can be adjusted for specific experimental applications; however, further validation across larger and clinically diverse EOC cohorts is required.© 2026. The Author(s).
Demineralized bone matrix (DBM) is widely used as an alternative to autografts for repairing bone defects, but its clinical efficacy is limited by poor retention at the defect site and inadequate osteogenic capacity. Here, we developed a multifunctional carrier system aimed at improving the capacity of DBM by utilizing nanoclay-based self-assembly along with cell-derived exosome mimetics (EMs). EMs were derived from mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) osteogenically induced in spheroids and were functionalized with bisphosphonates (BP) to assemble a stable gel network with laponite nanoclays via BP-nanoclay edge interactions. The resulting self-assembled nanoclay gel exhibited excellent injectability, moldability, and self-healing properties, even when loaded with a high concentration of DBM, and supported MSC osteogenic differentiation. We further enhanced the potency of DBM-mediated osteogenesis and bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signaling in the nanoclay gel by incorporating BP-functionalized EMs (EM-BPs) loaded with miR-200c that can target BMP antagonist noggin. Lastly, we validated the bone regeneration efficacy of DBM-loaded nanoclay gels in comparison to commercially available DBM putties using a mouse calvarial defect model. This approach presents a versatile nanoclay gel carrier platform that overcomes the limitations of current DBM formulations and provides a promising strategy for improved bone repair.
The intestinal porcine epithelial cell line (IPEC-J2) is a nontransformed jejunal model derived from unsuckled piglets. It is increasingly used in gut physiology research, yet its application to nutrient absorption remains underexplored. Four media types were assessed for their ability to support IPEC-J2 barrier maturation and permeability: Dulbecco's modified Eagle medium/Ham's F-12 with 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS10), 10% porcine serum (PS10), 5% porcine serum (PS5) supplemented with Wnt3a-R-spondin-Noggin conditioned medium (PS5+L-WRN), and PS5 with epidermal growth factor and insulin-transferrin-selenium (PS5+EGF+ITS). Culture medium influenced epithelial phenotype, with more than a 30-fold range in transepithelial electrical resistance (TEER), which plateaued by day 12. PS10 supported a balanced profile, characterized by intermediate TEER (2395.00 ± 485.51 Ω × cm2), lowest lactulose and mannitol permeability (p < 0.05), high lactate dehydrogenase activity (p < 0.05 vs. PS5+L-WRN and FBS10), enhanced membrane localization of tight junction proteins (p < 0.05 vs. PS5+EGF+ITS), and reduced fibroblast marker S100A4 (p < 0.05 vs. PS5+EGF+ITS). Treatment with digested infant milk formula did not compromise barrier integrity in PS10-cultured IPEC-J2 monolayers and enabled transport of free amino acids to the basolateral compartment. These findings support IPEC-J2 as an alternative to Caco-2 cells for applications in infant nutrition research in vitro.© 2026 The Author(s). Molecular Nutrition & Food Research published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Retinoic acid, acting through RAR/RXR nuclear receptors, is required for neuronal differentiation in Xenopus laevis. Bexarotene, characterised as a pan-RXR agonist, reduces the symptoms of Alzheimer's disease in mouse models by clearing amyloid plaque and by promoting neurogenesis. In this paper, we show that RXR-initiated bexarotene signalling generates additional neurons both during normal X. laevis development and in ectodermal explants in which bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signalling is inhibited. Differential gene expression analysis between ectodermal explants taken from uninjected embryos and from embryos co-injected with mRNA that expresses Noggin, a BMP antagonist, and RXRβ identifies genes mediating the transition from an epidermal to a neural fate. The explants express genes associated with an anterior neural fate, but not a neuronal fate. The addition of bexarotene to equivalent co-injected explants activates genes that promote neuronal differentiation and posterior character, including genes of the canonical Wnt signalling pathway. Xenopus ectodermal explants therefore provide a simple and efficient tool to identify novel retinoid agonists that promote neuronal differentiation. The genes expressed in response to bexarotene are consistent with a pathway to neuronal differentiation allied to standard retinoid signalling.© 2026. Published by The Company of Biologists.
Most rabbit embryonic stem (rbES) cell lines established in embryonic fibroblast feeder layer systems predominantly exhibit pluripotency features restricted to a "primed" state, which hinders their directed differentiation into reproductive germ cells and limits their capacity for germline transmission.We developed a novel 3C system containing IWP2, DZNep, and TSA in iFLY medium supplemented with basic fibroblast growth factor, human leukemia inhibitory factor, and Noggin. Pluripotency maintenance and germline differentiation were validated by gene expression analysis and induction with BMP4, stem cell factor, and epidermal growth factor.The 3C system efficiently maintained the pluripotency of rbES cells with stable expression of core pluripotent genes. These cells showed upregulated expression of partial naïve markers and expressed formative pluripotent markers. Moreover, 3C cultured rbES cells were successfully differentiated into primordial germ cell like cells (PGCLCs).The 3C culture system confers rbES cells with naïve pluripotency and self renewal ability, as well as strong potential for directed germ cell differentiation. This system provides a reliable stem cell platform for genetic modification and breeding in livestock.Copyright © 2026 Chen, Liu, Li, Ullah, Gao, Wang, Liu and Du.
Studies on hearing loss indicate that the regulation of signaling pathways (including Notch, Wnt, FGF and BMP) can induce the regeneration of mammalian hair cells. As one of the potential vectors of gene therapy, adenovirus is hoped to resolve non-genetic hearing loss for its high transfection rate to supporting cells. The role of adenovirus-mediated regulation of the Notch, FGF, and BMP signaling pathways in hair cell regeneration warrants further investigation.We employed adenoviruses to selectively inhibit the Notch (Notch1-RNAi-AD) or FGF (FGFR3-RNAi-AD) signaling pathways individually, as well as to simultaneously inhibit both Notch and BMP signaling pathways (Notch1-Noggin-AD).Show that inhibiting the Notch pathway significantly increased the number of hair cells through transdifferentiation, which occurred at the expense of supporting cell loss. Following the inhibition of FGF signaling pathway, a small amount of cell proliferation was observed in the sensory epithelium in the apex of the cochlea. In contrast, after infection with Notch1-RNAi-AD and FGFR3-RNAi-AD, the number of hair cells increased significantly, and transdifferentiation and supporting cells proliferation also increased simultaneously in the cochlea. Finally, simultaneous infection of Notch1-Noggin-AD and FGFR3-RNAi-AD further increased the number of hair cells from transdifferentiation and proliferation.Here, we used adenoviruses to regulate the activity of signaling pathways to induce the regeneration of cochlear hair cells in neonatal mice explants and achieved some expected results. Our study suggests that regulation of the FGF signaling pathway induces the proliferation of supporting cells, which is different from transdifferentiation by Notch inhibition, and the co-regulation of the Notch, FGF and BMP signaling pathways can promote more significant hair cell regeneration from supporting cell proliferation, followed by transdifferentiation, and avoid the large loss of supporting cells.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Noggin is a glycosylated protein that acts as an antagonist of bone morphogenetic proteins and has been implicated in astrogliosis and functional recovery after spinal cord injury (SCI). Although Noggin is known to regulate astrocytic responses, its role in reactive astrogliosis and glial scar formation after SCI remains unclear. Under normal conditions, Noggin is expressed in astrocytes in the white matter of the mouse spinal cord. In this study, we investigated the role of Noggin in reactive astrogliosis and glial scar formation after SCI.We first examined the expression pattern of Noggin in the mouse spinal cord after SCI. To assess the functional role of Noggin, we used Nestin-Cre; Nogginflox/flox conditional knockout mice, in which Noggin is conditionally deleted from astrocytes and neurons in the spinal cord. In addition, neutralizing anti-Noggin antibodies were continuously administered to the lesion site using micro-osmotic pumps. GFAP expression and motor function after SCI were then evaluated.As a result, we found that Noggin was upregulated in reactive astrocytes after SCI, suggesting its involvement in the injury response. Conditional deletion of Noggin markedly suppressed glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) expression after SCI. Consistently, local administration of neutralizing anti-Noggin antibodies also reduced GFAP expression around the lesion site. However, anti-Noggin antibody treatment deteriorated motor function after SCI.These findings suggest that Noggin is an important regulator of reactive astrogliosis and contributes to glial scar formation after SCI. Although suppression of Noggin reduced GFAP expression and attenuated glial scar formation, it did not improve functional recovery. Rather, motor function was worsened, indicating that reduced glial scar formation may not necessarily be beneficial after SCI. Noggin-mediated astrogliosis may therefore play a protective role in the injured spinal cord.Copyright © 2026 Han, Wakayama, Li, Liang, Li, Ping, Arima, Sato, Matsuyama and Yamagishi.
Corneal neovascularization (CNV) and corneal lymphangiogenesis (CL) disrupt corneal immune privilege after injury and drive transplant rejection. This study investigated how the bone morphogenetic protein 4 (BMP4)-Smad pathway regulates both vascular arms of the corneal wound response. Bioinformatic analysis of a rat corneal suture-injury dataset showed that sustained injury induced a coordinated inflammatory, angiogenic, lymphangiogenic, and BMP/TGFβ-Smad transcriptional program, with predicted SMAD5-binding motifs in vascular- and lymphatic-related gene promoters. In vitro, BMP4 inhibited the proliferation and migration of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) and human lymphatic endothelial cells (HLEC) and downregulated CD31, VEGFA, LYVE-1, and VEGFC, whereas the BMP antagonist Noggin reversed these effects. BMP4 increased phosphorylated Smad1/5/8 (p-Smad1/5/8) and promoted its nuclear translocation, confirming canonical pathway activation. In a rat corneal suture model, BMP4 reduced inflammatory-cell infiltration and suppressed CNV and CL, as demonstrated by slit-lamp examination, lineage-resolved CD31/CD45 and LYVE-1/Prox1 co-staining, transmission electron microscopy, and molecular assays; Noggin antagonized each effect. BMP4 further activated corneal p-Smad1/5/8 signaling and induced endogenous BMP4 expression in a Noggin-sensitive manner, suggesting a self-amplifying loop. Together, these findings indicate that BMP4 coordinately restrains the vascular and lymphatic arms of the corneal immune response through canonical BMP4-Smad1/5/8 signaling and may help preserve corneal immune privilege during injury repair.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Ginsenoside Rg1 (Rg1), a representative saponin of ginseng, is evidenced with a remarkable neuroprotective effect; however, its direct target in neural cells has not been addressed. The present study investigated the reconstructing effect on the damaged neurite network of Rg1, and its direct target responsible for this bio-effect. The results showed that Rg1 can alleviate the Aβ25-35-induced neuronal damage and synaptic atrophy in primary neurons and PC12 cell models, respectively. Furthermore, the Septin 2, involved in cell division and cytoskeleton organization, was identified as a protein specifically binding to Rg1. In addition, the overexpression and knockdown of Septin 2 in PC12 cells supported its role in mediating the neural protective effect of Rg1. These findings uncover Septin 2 as a key target of Rg1 in neural cells, which also provides insight into the intervention mechanism of ginseng in neurological disorders.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Brachydactyly A1 (BDA1) is a rare disorder characterized by the disproportionate shortening of fingers and/or toes with or without symphalangism. Mutations in Indian hedgehog signaling molecule (IHH), which impair the effect of functional IHH protein derived from its precursor IHH, are commonly identified in patients with BDA1 or acrocapitofemoral dysplasia (ACFD). The ultrasound phenotype of fetuses with IHH mutations has rarely been described. To better understand the consequences of IHH mutation, we analyzed the characteristics of a Chinese fetus with BDA1 caused by a novel heterozygous IHH mutation. Clinical data and genomic DNA were collected from the proband and family members. Whole-exome sequencing (WES) was performed to identify potential causative mutations. Sequence analysis was performed to investigate the conservation of the affected leucine residue in IHH. Protein 3D modeling was performed to predict the effects of the mutation on protein structure. In vitro overexpression transfection experiments in human embryonic kidney 293T (HEK293T) cell lines were performed to evaluate the pathogenicity of the identified mutation. The fetal proband carried a novel heterozygous mutation in IHH (NM_002181.4: c.331_333delCTG, NP_002172.2: p.Leu111del) inherited from the father; this mutation manifested as shortening of the limbs, with more severe shortening observed in the proximal extremities than in the distal extremities, as evidenced by ultrasound. The Leu111 residue is highly conserved among vertebrates, and deletion of this residue destabilizes the protein structure. Western blotting analysis of HEK293T cells in overexpression transfection experiments revealed that the Leu111del mutation led to an increase in the level of the IHH precursor and a reduction in the level of functional IHH protein compared with those in HEK293T cells expressing wild-type IHH, indicating that this mutation might cause IHH protein dysmaturity. The novel heterozygous mutation c.331_333delCTG (p.Leu111del) in the IHH gene is the likely cause of BDA1 in this Chinese fetus. This mutation causes IHH protein maturation failure. These findings contribute to our understanding of the molecular pathogenesis of BDA1 and the clinical identification of fetal BDA1.© The Author(s) 2024.
Septins are evolutionarily conserved GTP-binding proteins mediating innate immunity, autophagy and inflammation in higher animals; however, they are yet to be fully characterized in fish. The study encompasses cloning of complete septin 2 cDNA from the rohu carp (Labeo rohita) that consisted of an open reading frame of 1050 bp and phylogenetic amino acid similarity of 99.43 % to cyprinid Onychostoma macrolepis. Septin 2 was ubiquitously expressed in different tissues of healthy rohu, and during early developmental stages. Septin 2 transcript levels were increased in response to three infection models i.e. Aeromonas hydrophila, poly I:C, and Argulus siamensis, indicating its role in immunity. A synthetic antimicrobial peptide derived from the septin 2 gene revealed in vitro bactericidal activity. A produced recombinant protein of septin 2 (~40 kDa) when injected into rohu modulated the expression of various immune-related genes. Further, in vivo studies of this protein demonstrated protection against A. hydrophila (71 % relative percent survival) and delayed mortality against ectoparasite A. siamensis. A developed sandwich ELISA revealed enhanced septin 2 level post A. hydrophila infection. The present study provides a new understanding of the septin 2 gene's multifunctional role in rohu and its importance in fish antimicrobial defence.Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Extracellular vesicles are easily accessible in various biofluids and allow the assessment of disease-related changes in the proteome. This has made them a promising target for biomarker studies, especially in the field of neurodegeneration where access to diseased tissue is very limited. Genetic variants in the LRRK2 gene have been linked to both familial and sporadic forms of Parkinson's disease. With LRRK2 inhibitors entering clinical trials, there is an unmet need for biomarkers that reflect LRRK2-specific pathology and target engagement.In this study, we used induced pluripotent stem cells derived from a patient with Parkinson's disease carrying the LRRK2 G2019S mutation and an isogenic gene-corrected control to generate human dopaminergic neurons. We isolated extracellular vesicles and neuronal cell lysates and characterized their proteomic signature using data-independent acquisition proteomics. Then, we performed differential expression analysis to identify dysregulated proteins in the mutated line. We used Metascape and gene ontology enrichment analysis on the dysregulated proteomes to identify changes in associated functional networks.We identified 595 significantly differentially regulated proteins in extracellular vesicles and 3,205 in cell lysates. We visualized functionally relevant protein-protein interaction networks and identified key regulators within the dysregulated proteomes. Using gene ontology, we found a close association with biological processes relevant to neurodegeneration and Parkinson's disease. Finally, we focused on proteins that were dysregulated in both the extracellular and cellular proteomes. We provide a list of ten biomarker candidates that are functionally relevant to neurodegeneration and linked to LRRK2-associated pathology, for example, the sonic hedgehog signaling molecule, a protein that has tightly been linked to LRRK2-related disruption of cilia function.In conclusion, we characterized the cellular and extracellular proteome of dopaminergic neurons carrying the LRRK2 G2019S mutation and proposed an experimentally based list of biomarker candidates for future studies.Copyright © 2024 Knab, Guaitoli, Jarboui, von Zweydorf, Isik, Klose, Rajkumar, Gasser and Gloeckner.
Highly regulated cardiomyocyte Ca2+ fluxes drive heart contractions. Recent findings from multiple organisms demonstrate that the specific Ca2+ transport mechanism known as store-operated Ca2+ entry (SOCE) is essential in cardiomyocytes for proper heart function, and SOCE dysregulation results in cardiomyopathy. Mechanisms that regulate SOCE in cardiomyocytes are poorly understood. Here we tested the role of cytoskeletal septin proteins in cardiomyocyte SOCE regulation. Septins are essential SOCE modulators in other cell types, but septin functions in cardiomyocytes are nearly completely unexplored. We show using targeted genetics and intravital imaging of heart contractility in Drosophila that cardiomyocyte-specific depletion of septins 1, 2, and 4 results in heart dilation that phenocopies the effects of SOCE suppression. Heart dilation caused by septin 2 depletion was suppressed by SOCE upregulation, supporting the hypothesis that septin 2 is required in cardiomyocytes for sufficient SOCE function. A major function of SOCE is to support SERCA-dependent sarco/endoplasmic reticulum (S/ER) Ca2+ stores, and augmenting S/ER store filling by SERCA overexpression also suppressed the septin 2 phenotype. We also ruled out several potential SOCE-independent septin functions, as septin 2 phenotypes were not due to septin function during development and septin 2 was not required for z-disk organization as defined by α-actinin labeling. These results demonstrate, for the first time, an essential role of septins in cardiomyocyte physiology and heart function that is due, at least in part, to septin regulation of SOCE function.
The Borg (or Cdc42EP) family consists of septin-binding proteins that are known to promote septin-dependent stress fibers and acto-myosin contractility. We show here that epithelial Borg5 (also known as Cdc42EP1) instead limits contractility, cell-cell adhesion tension and motility, as is required for the acquisition of columnar, isotropic cell morphology in mature MDCK monolayers. Borg5 depletion inhibited the development of the lateral F-actin cortex and stimulated microtubule-dependent leading-edge lamellae as well as radial stress fibers and, independently of the basal F-actin phenotype, caused anisotropy of apical surfaces within compacted monolayers. We determined that Borg5 limits colocalization of septin proteins with microtubules, and that like septin 2, Borg5 interacts with the rod-domain of myosin IIA (herein referring to the MYH9 heavy chain). The interaction of myosin IIA with Borg5 was reduced in the presence of septins. Because septins also mediate myosin activation, we propose that Borg5 limits contractility in MDCK cells in part by counteracting septin-associated myosin activity.© 2024. Published by The Company of Biologists Ltd.
The bromodomain and extraterminal domain (BET) family proteins serve as primary readers of acetylated lysine residues and play crucial roles in cell proliferation and differentiation. Dysregulation of BET proteins has been implicated in tumorigenesis, making them important therapeutic targets. BET-bromodomain (BD) inhibitors and BET-targeting degraders have been developed to inhibit BET proteins. In this study, we found that the BET inhibitor MS645 exhibited superior antiproliferative activity than BET degraders including ARV771, AT1, MZ1 and dBET1 in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) cells. Treatment with MS645 led to the dissociation of BETs, MED1 and RNA polymerase II from the E2F1-3 promoter, resulting in the suppression of E2F1-3 transcription and subsequent inhibition of cell growth in TNBC. In contrast, while ARV771 displaced BET proteins from chromatin, it did not significantly alter E2F1-3 expression. Mechanistically, ARV771 induced BRD4 depletion at protein level, which markedly increased EGR1 expression. This elevation of EGR1 subsequently recruited septin 2 and septin 9 to E2F1-3 promoters, enhancing E2F1-3 transcription and promoting cell proliferation rate in vitro and in vivo. Our findings provide valuable insights into differential mechanisms of BET inhibition and highlight potential of developing BET-targeting molecules as therapeutic strategies for TNBC.Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
The primary cilium (PC) is a pivotal organelle for neuronal signaling and development, while tau tubulin kinase 2 (TTBK2) is a key initiator of ciliogenesis. However, the role of TTBK2 in spinal neurons during spinal cord injury (SCI) and subsequent neural repair remains unclear.We manipulated TTBK2 expression in spinal neurons using adenovirus-mediated overexpression and knockdown in vitro. Transcriptomic profiling (RNA-sequencing) and RT-qPCR were employed to explore the potential regulatory pathways at the molecular level. In vivo, Ttbk2fl/fl-Rosa-CreERT2+/- conditional knockout mice were subjected to a spinal cord hemisection model. Behavioral assays, immunofluorescence, and biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) tracing were conducted to assess neuronal survival, axonal regeneration, and circuit reorganization.Here, we demonstrated that intact activity of TTBK2 in PC promoted neural survival, axonal regeneration, and neural circuit remodeling. However, loss of TTBK2 impaired PC function and hindered recovery after SCI.These findings extend the role of PCs beyond neurodevelopment, demonstrating that the TTBK2-PC functions as an endogenous repair mechanism after SCI. Targeting this pathway may provide novel therapeutic strategies for enhancing neural regeneration.© 2026 The Author(s). CNS Neuroscience & Therapeutics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Neuroblastoma (NB) with metastasis to bone marrow (BM) usually results in dismal survival. The mechanisms underlying BM metastasis remain largely unclear. In this study, single-cell transcriptome of NB with and without BM metastasis were analyzed, and 146 marker genes of NB cells were identified. Using two-sample Mendelian randomization, N-cadherin (CDH2) and tubulin α 1A (TUBA1A) were identified as key genes possibly affecting BM metastasis. Functional investigations suggest that CDH2 regulates cell cycle and DNA replication, whereas TUBA1A impacts cell adhesion molecules and the cAMP signaling pathway. Dysregulated expression of CDH2 or TUBA1A also alters the immune microenvironment by immune cells and chemokines. Subsequent experiments validated that both CDH2 and TUBA1A were up-regulated in NB cell lines and high-risk patient samples, compared with low-risk cases. Knockdown of CDH2 or TUBA1A led to cell cycle arrest and significantly inhibited NB cell proliferation and migration. Moreover, an oxidation-reduction cycling agent, 2,3-dimethoxy-1,4-naphthoquinone, was identified as a candidate compound with inhibitory activity on NB cells by diminishing CDH2 or TUBA1A expression levels. Together, these results highlight CDH2 and TUBA1A as novel therapeutic targets for NB with BM metastases. The efficacy of 2,3-dimethoxy-1,4-naphthoquinone in suppressing NB cell growth and CDH2/TUBA1A expression suggests its potential for clinical application.Copyright © 2026 American Society for Investigative Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Tau tubulin kinase 2 (TTBK2) is a ubiquitous serine-threonine protein kinase implicated in diverse cellular processes, including microtubule regulation, ciliogenesis, synaptic signaling, and the phosphorylation of key proteins like TDP-43. Despite its relevance, many aspects of TTBK2 function in both physiological and pathological conditions remain poorly understood. Truncating variants in TTBK2 gene cause spinocerebellar ataxia type 11 (SCA11), a rare form of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxia. However, the functional consequences and pathogenic potential of missense variants have yet to be elucidated. In this study, we developed a CRISPR/Cas9 knock-in cell model harboring a missense variant in TTBK2 kinase domain (NM_173500.4:c.625 C > T; p.Leu209Phe) to evaluate its impact on TTBK2 expression, associated protein levels, and phosphoproteomic profiles. TTBK2 missense variant (TTBK2-L209F) was associated with reduced TTBK2 protein levels, altered levels of cytoskeleton-related proteins, and impaired kinase activity, namely toward TDP-43. Phosphoproteomic analyses identified dysregulation in pathways linked to gene regulation, protein degradation, cytoskeletal organization, and TGF-β signaling. These findings provide valuable insights into the biological roles of TTBK2 in cellular signaling. Moreover, this study underscores the importance of functional studies to better understand the consequences of TTBK2 missense variants, particularly those affecting the kinase domain, and their potential contribution to disease.© 2025. The Author(s).
Giant cell arteritis (GCA), the most common systemic vasculitis affecting elderly individuals, currently lacks specific therapies. This study aimed to systematically identify therapeutic targets for GCA through integration of large-scale multi-omics datasets.We constructed a multi-stage analytical framework encompassing 32 proteomic datasets (covering 2914 unique plasma proteins) and 6 transcriptomic datasets. Multi-omics integration strategies, including two-sample Mendelian randomization, colocalization analysis, and functional enrichment analysis, were employed to identify and validate causal relationships between candidate targets and GCA risk across 4 independent European-ancestry GCA cohorts. Single-cell RNA sequencing analysis of peripheral blood mononuclear cells from untreated GCA patients was performed to characterize hub gene-immune cell relationships.We identified 43 plasma proteins causally associated with GCA [false discovery rate (FDR) < 0.05], with 17 representing novel therapeutic targets. Through dual validation using proteome-wide association studies and transcriptome-wide association studies, we identified 13 high-confidence candidate targets with distinct tissue-specific expression patterns. Unc-51 like kinase 3 (ULK3) emerged as the strongest protective factor (odds ratio = 0.47, 95% confidence interval: 0.37-0.71) through autophagy regulation, while SLAMF7 represents an immediate drug repositioning opportunity as the target of food and drug administration-approved elotuzumab. Five targets have existing approved drugs (SLAMF7, ICAM1, IL18, IL6ST, CTSS). Single-cell analysis revealed profound disruption of hub gene-immune cell relationships in untreated GCA patients, with cell-type-specific alterations in inflammatory gene expression, and TYMP as the most critical hub gene.This study provides a clinically-actionable atlas of 43 potential therapeutic targets in GCA, identifying novel mechanisms including autophagy modulation and metabolic reprogramming, with immediate drug repositioning opportunities and precision medicine strategies based on tissue-specific and cell-type-specific expression patterns. These findings require experimental validation before clinical translation.Copyright © 2025 First Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine in China. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Despite the availability of effective therapies such as proteasome inhibitors, multiple myeloma (MM) patients relapse with refractory disease. To identify new therapeutic targets, we assessed RNA sequencing data from CD138+ MM patient cells (n = 813) across disease stages and found that an autophagy gene signature, and particularly ULK3 expression, was strongly associated with disease progression. Functional studies revealed that ULK3 contributes to MM cell survival as part of the ULK-ATG13-FIP200 complex. We generated inhibitors (SG3-014/MA9-060) with nanomolar potency and confirmed their binding mode through co-crystallization with ULK3. In vivo, ULK3 inhibition reduced MM burden, improved survival, and protected against cancer-induced bone disease. MA9-060 also restored sensitivity to proteasome inhibitors in resistant MM cells. This synergy was validated ex vivo in patient samples, especially those with high ULK3 expression. These findings indicate a new role for ULK3-mediated autophagy in cancer and suggest that ULK3 inhibition is an effective treatment strategy for both newly diagnosed and refractory MM disease.
Sperm plays a crucial role in male reproduction, and only a certain number of normal progressive sperm can achieve oocyte fertilization. Revealing the regulatory mechanism of spermatogenesis will help to clarify the pathogenesis of male infertility. Tau tubulin kinase 2 (TTBK2) is a microtubule-associated protein and a serine/threonine protein kinase, which has been shown to participate in cilia formation. Although the formation of cilia and sperm flagella is similar, the specific role of TTBK2 in the formation of sperm flagella remains to be elucidated. In this study, Ttbk2 was found to be predominantly expressed in the mouse testis, and the protein co-localized with α-tubulin in manchette during spermatogenesis. We inhibited the expression of Ttbk2 by intratesticular injection and found a significant increase in the rate of sperm tail deformity and a significant decrease in sperm forward motility. Transmission electron microscopy results revealed that the microtubule structure in both the midpiece and principal piece of the sperm tail exhibited significant disorganization. Furthermore, the mRNA expression levels of centrosomal protein 164 (Cep164) and centrosomal protein 83 (Cep83), as well as intraflagellar transport 88 (Ift88), were found to be downregulated upon Ttbk2 inhibition. Additionally, the expression of CEP164 and IFT88 was also downregulated at the protein level. In conclusion, by increasing the expression of centrosomal proteins and a flagellar transporter, TTBK2 plays an important role in normal formation and functional maintenance of the sperm tail, laying the foundation for the clinical diagnosis and treatment of male reproductive-related gene mutations.© The Author(s) 2025. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology.
The primary cilium plays a crucial function in sensing and transmitting extracellular signals into cells. The initiation of ciliogenesis hinges on the recruitment of Tau tubulin kinase 2 (TTBK2) to the distal appendages (DAs) of centrioles through CEP164. However, the detailed mechanism underlying the CEP164/TTBK2 interaction at DAs during ciliogenesis remains incompletely understood. In this study, we unveil that CEP164 features a long intrinsically disordered region and forms dynamic condensates with TTBK2 through phase separation. Our investigation demonstrates that CEP164 undergoes phase separation with TTBK2 through multivalent electrostatic interactions. These interactions facilitate the efficient recruitment of TTBK2 to DAs, thereby kickstarting the process of cilia formation. Therefore, our findings provide insights into the molecular regulation of CEP164/TTBK2 interactions at DAs and highlight the pivotal role of phase separation in promoting cilia formation.Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
With the completion of genome sequencing of the black soldier fly (BSF), an increasing number of researchers are focusing on elucidating its robust digestive and absorptive capabilities through genetic and molecular biology methods to enhance its growth performance. However, most genetic and molecular biology studies require gene expression analysis, and the stability of reference genes may change under different experimental conditions. To identify optimal reference genes, we evaluated 11 candidate reference genes (GAPDH, β-actin, GST, Tubulin α-1A, Tubulin α-4A, Tubulin β, RP49, RPL13, EF1-α, 18S RNA, and 28S RNA) across various developmental stages, tissues, sexes, and 3 distinct genotypes of Hermetia illucens using RefFinder software, which integrates the statistical algorithms geNorm, NormFinder, BestKeeper, and ΔCt. The results recommend that β-Actin, 18S RNA, and RPL13 are suitable for analyzing different developmental stages; RPL13, GST, and RP49 are optimal for different tissues; EF1, RPL13, and GST work best for different sexes; and RPL13, GAPDH, and 18S RNA are ideal for different genotypes. Notably, this study is the first to evaluate the stability of reference genes across 3 BSF genotypes originating from different regions. The findings offer valuable references and fresh insights for molecular biology research on H. illucens.© 2025 Institute of Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences.
Despite advances in therapeutic regimens for managing cancer progression, ovarian cancer (OVC) still depends on platinum-based chemotherapy as its first-line treatment. Acquired resistance is accompanied by abnormal alterations in epigenetic regulation; however, in-depth mechanistic studies on cisplatin-resistant OVC are lacking. Herein, we show that abnormal overexpression of histone lysine demethylase 5B (KDM5B), but not KDM5A, strongly correlates with cisplatin resistance and OVC tumor progression. Genome-wide sequencing data revealed that KDM5B removes H3K4me3 from the promoter of dual-specificity phosphatase 4 (DUSP4), activating the MAPK pathway to increase cisplatin resistance. We also found that KDM5B protein stability is dynamically controlled via the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS), which is mediated by ubiquitin-specific protease 7 (USP7), F-box and WD repeat domain-containing 7 (FBXW7), and homeodomain-interacting protein kinase 1 (HIPK1). KDM5B and USP7 depletion effectively resensitizes OVC to cisplatin resistance, whereas DUSP4 silencing results in resistance in vitro and in vivo. Targeting KDM5B and USP7 synergistically represses tumor progression and increases sensitivity to cisplatin. Overall, we propose two new UPS-associated proteins, USP7 and FBXW7, which are responsible for abnormal KDM5B protein regulation, and suggest a novel mechanism to overcome cisplatin resistance in OVC by targeting the KDM5B-DUSP4 axis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Despite progress in improving outcomes for oligoarticular and polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA), the field still faces considerable challenges. More than half of adults who have had JIA continue to have active disease and have developed functional limitations. Medication side effects are common and intrusive. Thus, the field continues to search for therapeutic agents that target specific aspects of disease pathobiology and will be accompanied by fewer and less intrusive side effects. We identified 28 candidate target genes that were associated with JIA according to Open Targets Genetics and were also differentially expressed in the CD4+ T cells of children with active JIA (when compared to healthy control subjects). Of the 28 candidates, the strongest new target to emerge was homeodomain-interacting protein kinase 1 (HIPK1), which suppresses T cell activation and is within the PTPN22 locus tagged by rs6679677. This locus includes an enhancer element that contacts the HIPK1 promoter, and HIPK1 shows decreased expression in JIA CD4+ T cells when compared to controls. Gene Ontology terms associated with HIPK1 were overrepresented among the differentially expressed genes between JIA and controls, and PML, a known coregulator of HIPK1, showed a similar suppressed gene expression profile. Two downstream transcription factors of HIPK1, TP53 and GATA4, showed enriched binding patterns near the promoters of JIA up-regulated genes. Taken together, these data suggest a pathogenic role for HIPK1 in JIA and make it a prime candidate for therapeutic modulation.Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Sheep litter size is a critical trait in mutton production. While litter size regulation in relation to DNA transcription have been rigorously investigated, the function of RNA editing remains less explored. To elucidate the mechanisms controlling sheep fecundity at the RNA editing level and identify pivotal RNA editing sites, this study scrutinised RNA editing sites (RESs) in follicular and luteal phases of ovaries from sheep with high and low fecundity, and the functions of population-specific RESs were subsequently analysed. A total of 2 182 475 RESs, 74.61% of which were A-to-I and C-to-U sites, were identified. These RESs were fairly evenly dispersed over the chromosomes, with 46.8% showing close clustering (inter-site distance < 300 bp). Notably, 93% were primarily situated in intronic and intergenic regions. In the follicular phase, pivotal RESs were found in the introns of genes including LPS responsive beige-like anchor, MCC regulator of Wnt signalling, and RWD domain containing 3, among others, and in the exon region of EvC ciliary complex subunit 2. In the luteal phase, RESs were observed in the introns of genes such as H/ACA ribonucleoprotein assembly factor and SDA1 domain-containing 1, and the exon and 3'UTR regions of polypeptide N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase 15 and ilvB acetolactate synthase-like, respectively. High-fecundity sheep showed RESs in the follicular phase in genes such as fibrillin 1, cyclin-dependent kinase 6, and roundabout 1, and in genes such as autophagy-related 2B and versican in the luteal phase. Thirteen RESs specific to the follicular phase and eight specific to the luteal phase were identified in high-fecundity sheep ovaries. These RESs offer promising molecular targets and enhance understanding of multiple births in sheep from the perspective of posttranscriptional alterations.Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Glioblastoma (GBM) is a highly aggressive and fast-growing brain tumor, characterized by rapid progression, a very poor prognosis, and a high likelihood of recurrence. Thus, effective new therapeutic targets are urgently needed. Transmembrane proteins (TMEMs) have pro-cancer effects on multiple cancer types, but the mechanisms underlying the effects of TMEM17, particularly its role in GBM, remain unclear.We conducted bioinformatics analyses and immunohistochemistry to evaluate the role of TMEM17 in a variety of cancer types. Functional assays were conducted included the Cell Counting Kit-8 assay, annexin V-FITC/PI double staining, 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU) incorporation assay, wound healing assay, transwell invasion assay, and dual luciferase assay.We found that TMEM17 is associated with a poor prognosis in GBM. Prognostic analyses confirmed that high TMEM17 expression predicted poorer survival, establishing its significance as an independent prognostic factor. Functional assays demonstrated that silencing TMEM17 in GBM cell lines inhibited proliferation and invasion, and induced apoptosis, underscoring its role in tumor aggressiveness. From a mechanistic perspective, we discovered that the Ying Yang 1 (YY1) transcription factor can bind to the promoter of TMEM17, regulating its upregulation. Regarding downstream mechanisms, knocking down TMEM17 inhibited the phosphoinositide 3-kinase/AKT pathway. These findings suggest that TMEM17 plays a significant role in GBM and may be a potential therapeutic target for this cancer.These data prove that TMEM17 plays a key role in the regulation of GBM and has great potential as a clinical therapeutic target for GBM.© 2024 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Homeodomain-interacting protein kinase 1 (HIPK1) is majorly found in the nucleoplasm. HIPK1 is associated with cell proliferation, tumor necrosis factor-mediated cellular apoptosis, transcription regulation, and DNA damage response, and thought to play significant roles in health and common diseases such as cancer. Despite this, HIPK1 remains an understudied molecular target. In the present study, based on a systematic screening and mapping approach, we assembled 424 qualitative and 44 quantitative phosphoproteome datasets with 15 phosphosites in HIPK1 reported across multiple studies. These HIPK1 phosphosites were not currently attributed to any functions. Among them, Tyr352 within the kinase domain was identified as the predominant phosphosite modulated in 22 differential datasets. To analyze the functional association of HIPK1 Tyr352, we first employed a stringent criterion to derive its positively and negatively correlated protein phosphosites. Subsequently, we categorized the correlated phosphosites in known interactors, known/predicted kinases, and substrates of HIPK1, for their prioritized validation. Bioinformatics analysis identified their significant association with biological processes such as the regulation of RNA splicing, DNA-templated transcription, and cellular metabolic processes. HIPK1 Tyr352 was also identified to be upregulated in Her2+ cell lines and a subset of pancreatic and cholangiocarcinoma tissues. These data and the systems biology approach undertaken in the present study serve as a platform to explore the functional role of other phosphosites in HIPK1, and by extension, inform cancer drug discovery and oncotherapy innovation. In all, this study highlights the comprehensive phosphosite map of HIPK1 kinase and the first of its kind phosphosite-centric analysis of HIPK1 kinase based on global-level phosphoproteomics datasets derived from human cellular differential experiments across distinct experimental conditions.
Inhibition of pathological cardiac hypertrophy is recognized as an important therapeutic strategy for heart failure, although effective targets are still lacking in clinical practice. Homeodomain interacting protein kinase 1 (HIPK1) is a conserved serine/threonine kinase that can respond to different stress signals, however, whether and how HIPK1 regulates myocardial function is not reported. Here, it is observed that HIPK1 is increased during pathological cardiac hypertrophy. Both genetic ablation and gene therapy targeting HIPK1 are protective against pathological hypertrophy and heart failure in vivo. Hypertrophic stress-induced HIPK1 is present in the nucleus of cardiomyocytes, while HIPK1 inhibition prevents phenylephrine-induced cardiomyocyte hypertrophy through inhibiting cAMP-response element binding protein (CREB) phosphorylation at Ser271 and inactivating CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein β (C/EBPβ)-mediated transcription of pathological response genes. Inhibition of HIPK1 and CREB forms a synergistic pathway in preventing pathological cardiac hypertrophy. In conclusion, HIPK1 inhibition may serve as a promising novel therapeutic strategy to attenuate pathological cardiac hypertrophy and heart failure.© 2023 The Authors. Advanced Science published by Wiley-VCH GmbH.
Circular RNA (circRNA) has been confirmed to be involved in regulating sepsis-induced acute kidney injury (AKI). Our research aims to explore circ-ZNF644 role in the development of sepsis-induced AKI. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) was used to induce kidney tubular epithelial cell (HK2) injury. ELISA assay was performed to measure the concentrations of inflammation factors. Cell functions were determined by cell counting kit 8 assay, EdU assay and flow cytometry. Protein expression was evaluated by Western blot analysis. Quantitative real-time PCR was used to detect relative expression of circ-ZNF644, miR-335-5p and homeodomain-interacting protein kinase 1 (HIPK1). RNA interaction was confirmed by dual-luciferase reporter assay and RIP assay. LPS enhanced HK2 cell inflammation, oxidative stress, apoptosis, and reduced proliferation. Circ-ZNF644 was overexpressed in sepsis-induced AKI patients. Circ-ZNF644 knockdown suppressed LPS-induced HK2 cell injury, and this effect could be revoked by miR-335-5p inhibitor. MiR-335-5p was sponged by circ-ZNF644, and its expression was downregulated in sepsis-induced AKI patients. HIPK1 was targeted by miR-335-5p, and its expression could be suppressed by circ-ZNF644 knockdown. MiR-335-5p had an inhibition effect on HK2 cell injury induced by LPS, and HIPK1 overexpression could reverse this effect. Circ-ZNF644 knockdown relieved LPS-induced HK2 cell injury through the miR-335-5p/HIPK1 axis, confirming that circ-ZNF644 contributed to sepsis-induced AKI.© 2022 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
The present study aimed to explore the biological functions of microRNA (miR)-146b-5p and homeodomain interacting protein kinase 1 (HIPK1) in the progression of hepatic fibrosis (HF) and to identify the underlying mechanism. A rat HF model was established by administering a subcutaneous injection of carbon tetrachloride (CCl4). Relative levels of miR-146b-5p and HIPK1 in fibrotic rat liver tissues and the rat hepatic stellate cell (HSC) line HSC-T6 were measured by quantitative reverse transcription PCR, western blotting and immunohistochemistry. Following activation of HSC-T6 cells by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) induction, cell viability was examined by MTT assay. Transfection of miR-146b-5p mimic or inhibitor into HSC-T6 cells was performed, with the aim to identify the influence of miR-146b-5p on HSC-T6 cell behavior. The targeting relationship between miR-146b-5p and HIPK1 was predicted by TargetScan 7.2 and StarBase 3.0 and it was later verified by a dual-luciferase reporter assay. Through lentivirus transfection, the biological function of HIPK1 in regulating the progression of HF and the underlying mechanism were investigated. The results showed that miR-146b-5p was upregulated in liver tissues of rats with HF and activated HSC-T6 cells, while HIPK1 was downregulated in liver tissues of rats with HF and activated HSC-T6 cells. miR-146b-5p was able to upregulate the activation markers of LPS-induced HSC-T6 cells, upregulate COL1A1 and TGF-β, increase cell viability and contribute to fibrosis progression. HIPK1 was validated as the direct target of miR-146b-5p and its overexpression could effectively reduce the effect of miR-146b-5p in contribution to the progression of HF. In conclusion, miR-146b-5p was significantly upregulated during the progression of HF. By targeting and downregulating HIPK1, miR-146b-5p could significantly activate HSCs, upregulate COL1A1 and TGF-β and contribute to fibrosis progression. miR-146b-5p is a potential biomarker and therapeutic target for HF.Copyright: © Xie et al.
Noncoding RNAs (ncRNAs) such as microRNAs (miRNAs), long noncoding RNAs (lncRNA), and circular RNAs are closely related to the biological processes related to obesity. As a miRNA that widely present in different cell types, miR497 is proved to be involved in cell development. However, research on the role of miR-497 as a key factor in regulating the development of adipocytes is still in gap. The role of miR-497 in the apoptosis and proliferation of mouse-derived adipocytes was detected by RNA-seq analysis, RT-qPCR, Western blot, immunofluorescence, and dual-luciferase reporter assay. Using miR-497 mimics to treat 3T3-L1 cells, we found that miR-497 targeted Bcl-2 to promote adipocyte apoptosis through the mitochondrial pathway, and this effect was consistent in the apoptosis model composed of palmitic acid (PA) and hydrogen peroxide (H2 O2 ). LncRNA homeodomain-interacting protein kinase 1 (lnc-hipk1) sponged miR-148b to weaken its silencing of Bcl-2, forming the competitive endogenous RNAs (CeRNAs) regulatory network. Furthermore, overexpression of lnc-hipk1 inhibited the apoptosis of adipocytes by targeting miR-497/Bcl-2. Co-treatment of miR-497 and lnc-hipk1 showed that lnc-hipk1 reversed the apoptosis of adipocytes caused by miR-497 overexpression. And in vivo experiments further confirmed that this effect was also achieved by the CeRNA system of lnc-hipk1/miR-497/Bcl-2. In summary, lnc-hipk1 targets miR-497/Bcl-2 to regulate adipocyte apoptosis through the mitochondrial pathway. This research enriches the research content of ncRNAs and CeRNA in adipocyte development, and provides new targets for the treatment of obesity and other metabolic syndromes.© 2021 International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.
Dysregulated microRNAs (miRNAs) are common in human cancers and are involved in the proliferation, promotion, and metastasis of tumor cells. Therefore, the aim of this study was to evaluate the expression and biological function of miR-889-3p in lung cancer (LC). MiR-889-3p and Homeodomain-interacting protein kinase 1 (HIPK1) expression was detected in human LC tissues and cells. The correlation of miR-889-3p with the clinicopathology of LC patients was observed. After the transfection of miR-889-3p and HIPK1-related plasmids in human LC cell line A549, several studies were employed for detection of cell growth. In addition, the targeting of miR-889-3p with HIPK1 was verified. The results clarified miR-889-3p was down-regulated, while HIPK1 was up-regulated in LC tissues. Elevated miR-889-3p or repressed HIPK1 weakened the viability, epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), invasion, migration of LC cells, whereas strengthened apoptosis. MiR-889-3p targeted HIPK1; MiR-889-3p mediated HIPK1 to affect the proliferation and EMT of LC cells. Therefore, it is concluded that miR-889-3p repressing HIPK1 restrains the proliferation and EMT of LC cells, providing a novel target for LC therapy.
BACKGROUND: Renal fibrosis is a common pathological characteristic of chronic kidney disease (CKD) and serves as the critical prognostic indicator for renal outcomes. However, current therapeutic strategies for managing renal fibrosis remain limited. Dual-specificity tyrosine-phosphorylation-regulated kinase 2 (DYRK2), an evolutionarily conserved kinase, is implicated in cell proliferation and apoptosis in various pathological contexts. However, its role in renal fibrosis is unclear. METHODS: The expression of DYRK2 and association with renal injury and fibrosis were assessed in pathological sections from various CKD subtypes. Two independent renal fibrosis models, namely unilateral ureteral obstruction-induced and aristolochic acid-induced mice, were used to investigate the role of DYRK2 in renal fibrosis. Integrated multi-omics approaches, including RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC–MS/MS) interactomics, were employed to elucidate the underlying mechanisms. RESULTS: Clinically, DYRK2 expression was elevated in patients with CKD and strongly correlated with histopathological fibrosis, glomerular filtration rate (GFR) decline, and an increased urine albumin-to-creatine ratio (UACR) in patients. In experimental fibrosis models, DYRK2 expression was markedly upregulated, which was particularly observed in proximal tubules. Silencing DYRK2 attenuated tubular injury, collagen deposition, and fibroblast activation. RNA sequencing revealed significant enrichment of oxidative stress-related pathways upon DYRK2 silencing. Functional studies demonstrated that DYRK2 ablation restored redox homeostasis in renal tubular epithelial cells (RTECs). Moreover, Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes(KEGG) enrichment showed that DYRK2 ablation restored the G2/M phase of the cell cycle in RTECs, reflected by a decrease in the cyclin B1/cyclin D1 ratio, as well as reduced levels of p21 and phosphorylated histone H3 (P-H3). Mechanistically, mass spectrometry screening and co-immunoprecipitation assays revealed an interaction of DYRK2 and cyclin-dependent kinase 1 (CDK1). Notably, DYRK2 promoted phosphorylation of CDK1 at the Thr14 site, thereby inhibiting its activity. The increased Thr14 phosphorylation of CDK1 almost reversed the protective effects of DYRK2 loss on transforming growth factor (TGF)-β1-induced tubular cell injury and fibrosis. CONCLUSION: These findings highlight the pivotal role of DYRK2 in driving G2/M dysregulation in RTECs under fibrotic conditions. Targeting DYRK2 may offer a promising and novel therapeutic strategy for renal fibrosis.
BACKGROUND: Glypican-2 (GPC2), a member of the GPC gene family, primarily functions in developing neural and thyroid cancer tissues, exerting influence on protein transduction, cellular proliferation and differentiation, as well as oncogenic signatures. GPC2 exhibits significant overexpression in the majority of neuroblastoma (NB) samples while remaining nearly undetectable in normal pediatric tissue samples. METHODS: Overall survival (OS) was employed as a key parameter to investigate the correlation between GPC2 expression and pan-pediatric cancers. To assess the association between GPC2 expression and clinical parameters of NB, box plots followed by t-tests were utilized. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks and gene-gene interaction networks were constructed. Functional roles were determined through Ontology (GO) term enrichment analysis and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis. The XCell was employed to analyze the relationship between GPC2 expression and immune-related cells. Additionally, we retrospectively collected clinical data and survival information from a cohort of 51 patients diagnosed with NB and conducted immunohistochemistry (IHC) on the specimens as a validation set. RESULTS: A significant correlation between elevated GPC2 expression and reduced survival rates was observed in NB and brain tumors (P < 0.05). Notably, high GPC2 expression showed a non-significant trend toward reduced survival in four other pediatric tumor types except osteosarcoma. Notably, the MYCN amplified group exhibited significantly higher levels of GPC2 expression. Furthermore, GPC2 expression showed a positive correlation with infiltrating basophils, CD4 T cells, CD8 T cells, CD8 naïve T cells, Tgd cells, Th1 cells, Th2 cells and pro B cells, while demonstrating a negative correlation with infiltrating fibroblasts, macrophages M1 and M2 subtypes, monocytes neutrophils and pDCs. Among all 51 pediatric NB patients analyzed in this study, the MYCN amplified group displayed significantly higher levels of GPC2 expression compared to the MYCN not-amplified group. Additionally, survival analysis revealed that individuals with high GPC2 expression had significantly worse OS compared to those with low expression (P = 0.018). CONCLUSION: Elevated GPC2 expression was significantly correlated with reduced survival rates in NB and brain tumors (P < 0.05), with a non-significant trend toward reduced OS in four other pediatric tumor types. Furthermore, the expression level of GPC2 in NB showed a positive association with MYCN status and levels of immune cell infiltration
Skipped: PubMed ID 41750126 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 41524942 is a review article
Prostate cancer (PCa) is a highly prevalent and aggressive malignancy that poses a serious threat to men's health globally. Current treatments for PCa largely rely on hormone therapy; however, the development of drug resistance significantly diminishes its efficacy, highlighting the urgent need for novel therapeutic agents. Based on our prior work identifying dual-specificity tyrosine phosphorylation-regulated kinase 2 (DYRK2) as a promising target in PCa, we developed a novel and potent DYRK2 inhibitor TSL2109, and resolved its cocrystal structure with DYRK2. TSL2109 exhibited high kinase selectivity, favorable pharmacokinetic properties, and potent antitumor activity against PCa. Notably, it effectively suppressed tumor growth in enzalutamide-resistant 22Rv1 xenografts, patient-derived organoids, and patient-derived xenografts. Collectively, these results indicate that TSL2109 is a highly promising anticancer agent with the potential to overcome therapy resistance, thereby addressing an unmet clinical need. Supported by these findings, TSL2109 has been approved for clinical trials in China.
This study aims to screen liquid-liquid phase separation (LLPS)-related genes modulating ubiquitination for diagnosing patients with diabetic nephropathy (DN). After performing differential gene expression analysis, ssGSEA, and immune infiltration analysis, LLPS-related genes modulating ubiquitination, key immune cells, and immune-related pathways were acquired. The correlations between LLPS-related genes and ubiquitination, key immune-related pathways were explored, respectively. The diagnostic genes were identified by four machine learning algorithms, followed by evaluation to predict the performance of the machine learning models on ubiquitination using receiver operating characteristic curves and a confusion matrix. In vitro experiments were applied to explore the function of signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) in DN. Totally, 513 differentially expressed genes were screened between the DN and control groups. The activity of the ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis pathway exhibited a significant difference between the DN and control samples. The fraction of a total of 10 immune cells exhibited a significant difference between the lower and higher ubiquitination groups. Totally, nine LLPS-related genes modulating ubiquitination were acquired, and these genes modulating ubiquitination were enriched in ubiquitin pathways and significantly positively correlated with the complement, IFN-α, and IFN-γ pathways. Two diagnostic genes were obtained, namely dual specificity tyrosine phosphorylation regulated kinase 2 (DYRK2) and STAT1. Notably, downregulation of STAT1 effectively alleviated IFN-γ, IFN-α, IL-1β, and TNF-α levels in D-glucose-treated HK-2 cells, as well as the protein level of FK2. LLPS-related STAT1 modulating ubiquitination accelerates the inflammatory response in DN.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42388976 is a review article
Chordin is a cysteine-rich protein which acts as a regulator of bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signaling in the extracellular matrix. Acting in concert with twisted gastrulation (TWSG1), chordin works as an antagonist of BMP signaling by binding tightly to the growth factor and is a vital component of the network of interactions that establish developmental signaling gradients. Chordin is known to interact with BMP ligands via its four von-Willebrand factor type C domains, but the function of the large central four CHRD domains were previously unknown. Here we show that these domains interact strongly with sulfated glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) and provide evidence for the location of the binding site using X-ray crystallographic analysis combined with mutagenesis and biophysical techniques. Additionally, we report the first recombinant expression and purification of the complete functional chordin, TWSG1, BMP2, BMP7 complex which was used to demonstrate that the four CHRD domains are largely redundant with respect to the role of chordin as an inhibitor of BMP ligands. We therefore propose that the four CHRD domains of chordin have relevance in the diffusion and localization of chordin-TWSG1-BMP complexes at the tissue and organismal level, mediated by their interaction with GAGs or proteoglycans.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is caused by mutations in the Survival Motor Neuron 1 (SMN1) gene, leading to reduced SMN protein levels and widespread disruption in RNA metabolism. Despite of disease-modifying therapies, which remarkably improve patient outcomes, the long-term effects remain unknown. Dysregulated small non-coding RNAs, including microRNAs, have been reported in SMA, but their contribution to the disease remains unclear. We previously showed that flunarizine could improve the phenotype of an SMA mouse model; however its mode of action is incomplete. Here, we showed that flunarizine modulates the expression of numerous microRNAs. Using small-RNA sequencing of a flunarizine-treated SMA patient fibroblast cell line, we identified several microRNAs, which are also dysregulated in the brains and/or spinal cords of SMA mouse models at early disease stages and corrected with flunarizine. Transfection of the miR-128-3p inhibitor interferes with the flunarizine-induced neurite outgrowth in the murine neuronal NSC34 cells. Among the mRNAs modulated by flunarizine, homeodomain interacting protein kinase 2 (Hipk2) transcripts were revealed as novel miR-128-3p targets using either the mimic or its inhibitor. Our findings suggest that an early microRNA accumulation in spinal cords of SMA models can contribute to molecular dysfunctions and may represent an initiating event in pathogenesis.© 2026. The Author(s).
To investigate the association between mid-pregnancy serum levels of insulin-like growth factor binding protein-1 (IGFBP-1) and chordin-like 1 (CHRDL1) and the occurrence of fetal growth restriction (FGR) in late pregnancy among women with gestational hypertension (GH).This prospective nested case-control study was conducted within an established cohort of pregnant women with GH from January 2021 to January 2025. A total of 731 singleton pregnant women with GH at 20-24 gestational weeks were enrolled and followed up by dedicated nurses (those lost to follow-up were contacted at least three times) until late pregnancy (≥28 weeks), with 711 completing the entire follow-up. Based on prenatal ultrasound diagnosis, 106 cases of FGR were identified. These cases were individually matched in a 1:2 ratio (matching factors: maternal age, pre-pregnancy body mass index (BMI), and parity) with 212 controls selected from women without FGR, resulting in a final nested case-control sample of 318 participants. Fasting serum samples were collected at 20-24 weeks of gestation, and IGFBP-1 and CHRDL1 levels were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). FGR occurrence was assessed based on estimated fetal weight (EFW) monitored by B-ultrasound. Spearman's correlation analysis evaluated associations between mid-pregnancy serum concentrations of IGFBP-1 and CHRDL1 with EFW. Conditional logistic regression identified determinants of FGR development in late pregnancy within the GH cohort. The discriminative performance of mid-pregnancy serum IGFBP-1 and CHRDL1 for late-pregnancy FGR prediction was assessed using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis.Among 731 pregnant women with GH, 20 (2.74%) were lost to follow-up, and 711 completed the entire follow-up; of these, 106 (14.91%) developed FGR. Following 1:2 matching with 212 controls, 318 participants were included in the nested analysis. Serum levels of IGFBP-1 and CHRDL1 were significantly higher in the FGR group compared with the control group (both p < 0.001). The two biomarkers were positively correlated with each other (r = 0.455, p < 0.05) and negatively correlated with EFW (r = -0.335, -0.304, both p < 0.05). Conditional logistic regression analysis revealed that elevated systolic blood pressure (SBP), diastolic blood pressure (DBP), IGFBP-1, and CHRDL1 were independent risk factors for FGR, while elevated triglycerides (TG) were protective factors. ROC curve analysis demonstrated that the area under the curve (AUC) for IGFBP-1 and CHRDL1 alone in predicting FGR was 0.734 (95%CI: 0.677-0.791) and 0.704 (95%CI: 0.645-0.762), respectively; the combined AUC was 0.801 (95%CI: 0.750-0.852).Elevated serum IGFBP-1 and CHRDL1 levels in mid-pregnancy are independent risk factors for FGR in late pregnancy among women with GH. The combination of these two biomarkers demonstrates favorable predictive value, providing an actionable biomarker panel for early identification of high-risk populations in clinical practice, enabling intensified monitoring and intervention initiation at 20-24 weeks of gestation, and ultimately improving perinatal outcomes.
Ferroptosis has increasingly emerged as a novel target for cancer therapy because of intrinsic or acquired ferroptosis vulnerabilities in cancers. Small nucleolar RNA (snoRNA)-mediated mRNA modifications play a critical role in regulating ferroptosis and supporting tumor cell adaptation. However, the function and mechanism of the box C/D snoRNA SNORD60 in hepatoblastoma (HB) remain poorly understood. Here, we found that SNORD60 expression was markedly downregulated in HB tissues, and restoring its expression inhibited HB cell proliferation and induced ferroptosis both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, SNORD60 guided the 2'-O-methylation (Nm) of kielin/chordin-like protein (KCP) mRNA, and accelerated its degradation by resolving a G-quadruplex proximal to the Nm site. Furthermore, Silencing KCP induced lipid peroxidation and ferroptosis by suppressing ATF4-mediated transcription of SLC7A11. Moreover, plasma KCP protein levels were markedly higher in patients with HB than in healthy individuals, supporting KCP as a reliable non-invasive diagnostic biomarker for HB. High KCP expression correlates with poor patient prognosis. Overall, our findings reveal that SNORD60-mediated Nm modification of KCP prevents tumor cells from evading ferroptosis and inhibits tumor progression. This SNORD60/KCP axis represents a novel ferroptosis vulnerability and a promising therapeutic target in HB.© 2026. The Author(s).
Purinergic signaling is critical to myocardial inflammation and function. However, the underlying mechanisms are not well defined. Herein, we identified a protein kinase, homeodomain-interacting protein kinase 2 (HIPK2), as a novel regulator of purinergic signaling. Cardiomyocyte-specific HIPK2 knockout (CM-HIPK2-KO) hearts exhibited reduced expression of multiple key players of canonical purinergic signaling, including ectonucleases CD39 and CD73, and led to excessive inflammation and cardiac dysfunction. Multiple in vitro experiments with gain-of-function (adenovirus expressing HIPK2, Ad-HIPK2), and loss-of-function (Ad-sh-RNA-HIPK2) approaches were performed to establish that HIPK2-mediated regulation of purinergic signaling is a conserved mechanism in many cell types of diverse backgrounds. Mechanistically, we identified that the signaling circuit of HIPK2-ERK-CREB exerts its effects on purinergic signaling through transcriptional control on CD39 and CD73. Aberrant activation of purinergic signaling and inflammation was critical to cardiac pathologies because interventions with purinergic signaling inhibitor apyrase or NLRP3 inflammasome inhibitor CY09 largely rescued the detrimental cardiac phenotype of CM-HIPK2 KOs. Thus, herein, we identified HIPK2 as a novel regulator of purinergic signaling. Its deletion leads to excessive inflammation and cardiac dysfunction. Therefore, strategies to maintain HIPK2 are critical to sustaining cardiac health.© 2026. The Author(s).
Fusion genes have emerged as pivotal oncogenic drivers across diverse cancer types. The predominant mechanisms underlying fusion gene formation include chromosomal aberrations and intergenic mRNA trans-splicing. With advances in cancer genomics and transcriptomics, the identification, prevalence, and functional characterization of fusion genes have become major areas of investigation. In this study, we performed a comprehensive analysis of fusion events involving the family with sequence similarity 168B (FAM168B) and pleckstrin homology domain-containing B2 (PLEKHB2) in breast invasive carcinoma (BRCA). Integrated DNA and RNA sequencing analyses revealed that the chimeric PLEKHB2::FAM168B mRNA transcript is generated through an intergenic mRNA trans-splicing mechanism. This chimeric transcript leads to elevated FAM168B protein expression via long intergenic non-coding RNA 02228 (LINC02228)-mediated activation of DEAD-box helicase 3 X-linked (DDX3X). This, in turn, activates the DAZ-associated protein 2 (DAZAP2)/homeodomain-interacting protein kinase 2 (HIPK2)/tumor protein 53 (TP53) signaling cascade, resulting in enhanced cell cycle progression and increased BRCA cell proliferation. In summary, our findings suggest that chimeric PLEKHB2::FAM168B mRNA may serve as a potential biomarker in BRCA.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Inherited diseases characterized by abnormal corneal morphology include cornea plana, megalocornea, keratoconus and brittle cornea syndrome. This study aims to investigate genes responsible for these diseases.Variants in genes responsible for cornea plana, megalocornea, keratoconus and brittle cornea syndrome were analyzed and characterized by multistep bioinformatics approach based on three large data sets, including our in-house exome sequencing database from patients with inherited eye diseases, literature review, and gnomAD database. Additionally, the phenotypes of patients carrying these variants were collected.125 variants in six genes, namely KERA (Keratocan; OMIM: 603288), CHRDL1 (Chordin-like 1; OMIM: 300350), VSX1 (Visual system homeobox 1; OMIM: 605020), TUBA3D (Tubulin, alpha-3d; OMIM: 617878), ZNF469 (Zinc finger protein 469; OMIM: 612078), and PRDM5 (PR domain-containing protein 5; OMIM: 614161), have been reported in 244 families by literature review, of which 78 with cornea plana, 38 with megalocornea, 67 with keratoconus, and 61 with brittle cornea syndrome. Three variants in KERA were identified in 2 families with cornea plana in our cohort. Moreover, all reported variants in VSX1 were reclassified as likely benign or benign based on several major evidence, including high allelic frequency in gnomAD, presence in unaffected individuals in in-house data set, and relatively tolerated by multiple computational prediction tools. Misinterpreted variants in VSX1 has been detected in up to 3.13% of the general population.This study delineates the genetic and clinical landscape of cornea plana, megalocornea, keratoconus and brittle cornea syndrome for the first time. The pathogenicity of VSX1 variants could not be confirmed, making VSX1 an unlikely candidate gene for keratoconus. Correct classification of genes like VSX1 is critical in the era of genomic medicine.Copyright © 2026 Molecular Vision.
Hereditary ataxias are a heterogeneous group of neurodegenerative disorders characterized by impaired balance and coordination, often due to cerebellar dysfunction. Despite advances in identifying genetic causes, animal models remain essential for dissecting underlying mechanisms and testing therapeutic strategies. Here we describe a mouse model of spastic ataxia and myopathy caused by a missense mutation in Tuba4a (n.A626C, p.Gln176Pro). In an ENU mutagenesis screen, a male C57BL/6J mouse exhibiting muscle wasting and an intention tremor starting at approximately 4 weeks-of-age was identified. The male was bred by in vitro fertilization to BALB/cByJ oocyte donors. Genetic mapping determined dominant inheritance and localized the mutation to Chromosome 1. Genome sequencing revealed single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in serine threonine kinase 36 (Stk36 Y1003N ) and alpha-tubulin 4A (Tuba4a Q176P ) in the mapping interval. These SNPs were CRISPR-engineered into C57BL/6J mice, which confirmed the Tuba4a Q176P variant as the causative mutation. Mutant mice are normal at 3 weeks, except for decrement in muscle response following repetitive nerve stimulation. However, by 30 days these mice have ataxia, Purkinje neuron degeneration, and extensive skeletal muscle defects, which contribute to a decreased lifespan. Dominant TUBA4A mutations in humans are associated with spastic ataxia type 11 (SPAX11), congenital myopathy type 26 (CMYO26), and frontotemporal dementia/amyotrophic lateral sclerosis type 9 (FTDALS9). Our mice exhibit hallmark features of SPAX11 and CMYO26, but do not show motor neuron degeneration. This specificity makes this model a valuable tool for studying cell-type selective effects of TUBA4A mutations in neurodegeneration and myopathy.
Thyroid cancer (THCA) is a common endocrine malignancy with diverse prognostic outcomes. The role of dispatched RND transporter family member 3 (DISP3) in tumorigenesis remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate DISP3's biomarker potential in THCA.DISP3 expression in THCA and its correlation with clinicopathological features was analyzed from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) datasets. Functional enrichment, immune infiltration, genomic alterations and drug sensitivity analyses were performed. Prognostic value was evaluated by Kaplan-Meier analysis, Cox regression, and a nomogram that integrates DISP3 expression with key clinical variables.DISP3 exhibited elevated expression levels in THCA tissues compared with normal thyroid tissues (P<0.001). Functional enrichment highlighted involvement in key biological processes and pathways, including the Hedgehog and Notch signaling pathways. DISP3 expression was positively correlated with cell cycle-related genes. Clinicopathological analysis indicated that high DISP3 expression was associated with female gender, N1 stage and poor overall survival (OS). Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis demonstrated the diagnostic potential of DISP3 [area under the curve (AUC) =0.724]. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis confirmed that high DISP3 expression predicted poor prognosis for OS [hazard ratio (HR) =8.94]. A prognostic nomogram incorporating DISP3 expression and clinical factors showed substantial predictive accuracy (C-index: 0.818). DISP3 expression correlated with immune cell infiltration, particularly plasmacytoid dendritic cell (DC). DISP3 exhibited recurrent mutations (3.2%) and focal amplifications (11%), but promoter methylation was unchanged. High DISP3 correlated with sensitivity to PI3K/mTOR and Hedgehog inhibitors.DISP3 possibly serves as a potential biomarker for the diagnosis and prognosis of THCA.Copyright © 2025 AME Publishing Company. All rights reserved.
To investigate the role and potential mechanism of serine/threonine kinase 36 (STK36) in docetaxel resistance-prostate cancer (PCa). The expression of STK36 in PCa and the correlation with clinicopathological characteristics of PCa patients were analyzed using the data from different databases and tissue microarrays. To investigate the role of STK36 on cell proliferation, invasion, and migration, STK36 was overexpressed and silenced in DU-145 and PC-3 cell lines. Cell counting kit-8 (CCK8) was used to test cell proliferation. Cell invasion and migration were detected by cell wound scratch assay and trans well, respectively. The expression profile of STK36, E-Cadherin, and Vimentin was analyzed by Western blot. Cell apoptosis was detected by the TUNEL assay. STK36 expression was upregulated in PCa tissue compared with adjacent benign PCa tissue; it was higher in patients with advanced stages compared with lower stages and was significantly correlated with decreased overall survival. Up-regulation of STK36 significantly promoted the proliferation, invasion, and migration of DU-145 and PC-3 cells and compensated for the suppression caused by docetaxel treatment in vitro. A striking apoptosis inhibition could be observed when dealing with docetaxel, although the apoptosis of DU-145 and PC-3 cells was not affected by the STK36 exclusive overexpression. Besides, E-Cadherin expression was restrained while the expression levels of vimentin were all enhanced. The knockdown of STK36 reversed the above process. STK36 up-regulation could accelerate the biological behavior and docetaxel resistance of PCa by epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) activation. STK36 may be potentially used as a target in PCa resolvent with docetaxel.© 2024. The Author(s).
Motile cilia lining on the ependymal cells are crucial for cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) flow and its dysfunction is often associated with hydrocephalus. Unc51-like-kinase 4 (Ulk4) was previously linked to CSF flow and motile ciliogenesis in mice, as the hypomorph mutant of Ulk4 (Ulk4tm1a/tm1a ) developed hydrocephalic phenotype resulted from defective ciliogenesis and disturbed ciliary motility, while the underling mechanism is largely obscure. Here, we report that serine/threonine kinase 36 (STK36), a paralog of ULK4, directly interacts with ULK4 and this was demonstrated by yeast two-hybrid (Y2H) in yeast and coimmunoprecipitation (co-IP) assays in HEK293T cells, respectively. The interaction region was confined to their respective N-terminal kinase domain. The hypomorph mutant of Stk36 (Stk36tmE4-/- ) also developed progressive hydrocephalus postnatally and dysfunctional CSF flow, with multiple defects of motile cilia, including reduced ciliary number, disorganized ciliary orientation, defected axonemal structure and inconsistent base body (BB) orientation. Stk36tmE4-/- also disturbed the expression of Foxj1 transcription factor and a range of other ciliogenesis-related genes. All these morphological changes, motile cilia defects and transcriptional dysregulation in the Stk36tmE4-/- are practically copied from that in Ulk4tm1a/tm1a mice. Taken together, we conclude that both Stk36 and Ulk4 are crucial for CSF flow, they cooperate by direct binding with their kinase domain to regulate the Foxj1 transcription factor pathways for ciliogenesis and cilia function, not limited to CSF flow. The underlying molecular mechanism probably conserved in evolution and could be extended to other metazoans.© 2023 The Authors. The FASEB Journal published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology.
In cartilage regenerative medicine, transplanted chondrocytes contain a mixture of populations, that complicates the regeneration of uniform cartilage tissue. Our group previously reported that chondrocytes with higher chondrogenic ability could be enriched by selection of rapidly growing cells. In this study, the detailed properties of rapidly growing chondrocytes were examined and compared to slowly growing cells.Human auricular chondrocytes were fluorescently labeled with carboxyfluorescein succinimidyl ester (CFSE) and analyzed using flow cytometry, focusing on division rates as indicated by fluorescence intensity and cell morphology according to the forward scatter and side scatter. Rapid and slow growing cell groups were harvested on days 2 and 4 after CFSE labeling, and their ability to produce cartilage matrix in vitro was examined. To compare the chondrogenic ability in vivo, the cells were seeded on poly-l-lactic acid scaffolds and transplanted into nude mice. Gene expression differences between the rapid and slow cell groups were investigated by microarray analysis.On day 2 after CFSE labeling, the rapidly growing cell group showed the highest proliferation rate. The results of pellet culture showed that the rapid cell group produced more glycosaminoglycans per cell than the slow cell group. The amount of glycosaminoglycan production was highest in the rapid cell group on day 2 after CFSE labeling, indicating high chondrogenic ability. Furthermore, microarray, gene ontology, and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway analyses showed upregulation of genes that promote cell division such as origin recognition complex subunit 1 and downregulation of genes that inhibit cell division such as cyclin dependent kinase inhibitor 1A. Besides cell cycle-related genes, chondrocyte-related genes such as serpin family B member 2, clusterin, bone morphogenetic protein 2, and matrix metalloproteinase 3 were downregulated, while fibroblast growth factor 5 which is involved in stem cell maintenance, and coiled-coil and C2 domain containing 2A, which is required for cilia formation, were upregulated.The results showed that the rapid cell group proliferated well and had more undifferentiated properties, suggesting a higher stemness. The present findings provide a basis for the use of the rapid cell group in cartilage regeneration.© 2022 The Japanese Society for Regenerative Medicine. Production and hosting by Elsevier B.V.
To explore the regulation and function of serum response factor (SRF)/Cellular communication network factor 1 (CCN1) pathway in ferroptosis in ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) acute kidney injury (AKI).The level of SRF, CCN1, ferroptosis markers (TFR1, ACSL4, xCT, GPX4), ROS and SOD were examined in HK-2 cells under hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R) treatment or rat renal tissue samples after I/R treatment. SRF was overexpressed by pcDNA-SRF plasmid and suppressed by CCG-1423 (a small molecule inhibitor of SRF) or SRF siRNA to study how SRF influences ferroptosis through CCN1 in I/R AKI.In HK-2 cells under H/R treatment and renal tissue from I/R rats, the SRF along with CCN1, TFR1 and ACSL4 expression was upregulated, while xCT and GPX4 expression was downregulated. SRF upregulation in HK-2 cells increased CCN1 expression and was associated with ferroptosis-related changes. Blockade of SRF by CCG-1423 or an SRF-specific siRNA reduced CCN1 induction, protected renal tubular epithelial cells from ferroptosis-related injury, and alleviated I/R AKI both in vitro and in vivo.Increased SRF/CCN1 pathway activity may be associated with ferroptosis-related injury and dysfunction in renal tubular epithelial cells during AKI. Targeting SRF with CCG-1423 may represent a potential therapeutic strategy of AKI.© 2026 Asian Pacific Society of Nephrology.
COVID-19 exhibits seasonal epidemics with high risk of mortality in vulnerable population. Identifying accurate parameters for predicting severity and adverse outcomes remains of great clinical significance.An in-depth serum proteomics was performed on 20 samples from healthy controls (HC) and 108 samples from COVID-19 patients with mild or severe symptoms. Machine learning algorithms were integrated to identify signature proteins, which were further validated via ELISA across the discovery cohort, an external COVID-19 cohort (N = 48) , as well as an influenza A cohort (N = 104). Using a Gradient Boosting model, we developed a Severity-Resistance Index (SRI) to predict the severe risk. Furthermore, we applied unsupervised multi-modal clustering to integrate proteomics with electronic health records (EHR) data for the outcome prediction of severe COVID-19.Four proteins including cellular communication network factor 1 (CCN1), selenium-binding protein 1 (SELENBP1), phospholipase A2 group IIA (PLA2G2A) and surfactant protein B (SFTPB) were screened out with remarkable changes in severe COVID-19 serum. This four-protein combination could effectively distinguish mild cases from severe cases with an AUC of 0.829. SRI derived from these four proteins accurately predicted disease severity in both COVID-19 (training set: AUC = 0.985; test set: AUC = 0.827) and influenza patients (training AUC = 1.000; test AUC = 0.889). Additionally, unsupervised clustering identified a distinct mortality-associated subgroup (CS3) within COVID-19 cases which could be effectively distinguished from CS1 and CS2 subgroups using SRI and three key EHR indicators including monocyte percentage, alanine aminotransferase and uric acid with the AUC values of 0.930 (CS1 vs CS3) and 0.781 (CS2 vs CS3), respectively.Our study leverages an integrated framework combining artificial intelligence, in-depth proteomics and EHRs to develop a sequential risk assessment tool. While the SRI alone identifies patients at risk for severe illness, SRI incorporating with EHR data further pinpoints individuals at high mortality risk. This strategy therefore converts multidimensional omics data into actionable clinical indication, facilitating risk stratification and precision intervention for viral pneumonia.© 2026. The Author(s).
Zhiwang Decoction (ZWD) is a classical traditional Chinese medicine formulation with documented efficacy in alleviating the clinical manifestations of RA, yet its precise molecular mechanisms are not fully defined.To evaluate the anti-inflammatory and protective effects of ZWD in RA and to elucidate its potential mechanisms of action, with a focus on the role of cellular communication network factor 1 (CCN1) and macrophage polarization.A multi-level investigative approach was adopted, utilizing a collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) rat model, lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-activated RAW 264.7 macrophages, and human synovial tissues from RA and osteoarthritis (OA) patients. The therapeutic effects of ZWD were systematically assessed, and its mechanism was explored by analyzing CCN1 expression, macrophage M1 polarization, and the PI3K/AKT pathway.ZWD administration significantly attenuated arthritis severity and systemic inflammation in CIA rats. Mechanistic studies revealed that CCN1 was overexpressed in RA synovium and correlated positively with inflammatory activity. In vitro, CCN1 inhibition suppressed LPS-induced PI3K/AKT phosphorylation, inflammatory cytokine production, and M1 macrophage polarization. Notably, ZWD treatment downregulated CCN1 expression, inhibited PI3K/AKT pathway activation, and reduced inflammatory responses and M1 macrophage proportion in both animal and cellular models.ZWD exerts anti-RA effects by mitigating inflammation and suppressing M1 macrophage polarization. These therapeutic actions are mechanistically linked to the inhibition of the CCN1-dependent PI3K/AKT pathway.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Cardiac fibrosis is a defining pathological feature of diabetic cardiomyopathy (DCM), and excessive activation of cardiac fibroblasts plays a critical role in regulating cardiomyocyte function through paracrine signaling. CCN1 (cellular communication network factor 1), an extracellular matrix protein involved in intercellular communication, has been suggested to influence cardiac remodeling, although its specific impact on cardiomyocytes in DCM has remained unclear. In this study, we found that CCN1 expression was markedly elevated in cardiac tissues from DCM mouse models and in insulin-resistant cell models, with fibroblasts serving as the primary source. Proteomic analysis and co-culture experiments demonstrated that CCN1 suppressed cardiomyocyte macroautophagy/autophagy. To determine its role in vivo, we generated fibroblast-specific ccn1 knockout mice and established a DCM model, demonstrating that ccn1 deletion ameliorated cardiac dysfunction and restored autophagic activity. We further identified ITGAV-ITGB1/integrin αvβ1 as the receptor mediating CCN1 signaling in cardiomyocytes. Molecular dynamics simulations and co-immunoprecipitation experiments confirmed that CCN1 engaged ITGAV-ITGB1/integrin αvβ1 through its cysteine-knot-containing (CT) domain. Mechanistically, this interaction activated the downstream PTK2/FAK-MTOR signaling pathway, leading to inhibition of cardiomyocyte autophagy. Together, these findings reveal a previously unrecognized fibroblast-cardiomyocyte signaling axis in which fibroblast-derived CCN1 drives DCM progression by suppressing autophagy through ITGAV-ITGB1/integrin αvβ1-dependent signaling. This work provides mechanistic insight into the pathogenesis of DCM and identifies CCN1 as a potential therapeutic target for mitigating disease onset and progression.Abbreviations: AAV9: adeno-associated virus serotype 9; ADGRE1/EMR1/F4/80: adhesion G protein-coupled receptor E1; BafA1: bafilomycin A1; BSA: bovine serum albumin; C8: compound 8; CCN1: cellular communication network factor 1; CF: cardiac fibroblast; CSA: cross-sectional area; DCM: diabetic cardiomyopathy; EIF4EBP1: eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E binding protein 1; ELISA: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; HE: hematoxylin and eosin; HFD: high-fat diet; HG: high glucose; IR: insulin resistance; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MD: molecular dynamics; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; NRCM: neonatal rat cardiomyocyte; PDGFRA: platelet derived growth factor receptor alpha; PECAM1/CD31: platelet and endothelial cell adhesion molecule 1; PTK2/FAK: protein tyrosine kinase 2; PTPRC/CD45: protein tyrosine phosphatase receptor type C; RPS6KB1: ribosomal protein S6 kinase B1; S100A4/FSP1: S100 calcium binding protein A4; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; STZ: streptozotocin; TUNEL: terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end labeling; WGA: wheat germ agglutinin.
BACKGROUND: Pleural mesothelial cells (PMCs) have been identified as key contributors to pleural fibrosis. Cellular communication network factor 1 (CCN1), a matricellular protein, regulates cell–matrix interactions and fibrotic signaling in multiple contexts. However, the specific role and mechanism of CCN1 in PMCs during pleural fibrosis remained unclear. METHODS: Expression of CCN1 was evaluated in human pleural fibrosis samples and bleomycin-induced mouse models. In vitro, PMCs were treated with recombinant CCN1 or fibrotic matrix. Mechanistic studies included gene knockdown, immunoprecipitation, mass spectrometry, and functional assays. RESULTS: CCN1 was significantly elevated in pleural fibrosis tissues. CCN1 expression was driven by YAP/TAZ activation and in turn promoted further YAP/TAZ activation, creating a feedback loop to produce more CCN1. Upregulated CCN1 directly altered conformation of type I collagen (collagen I) by binding vWC binding domain. Then, CCN1 with conformation-changed collagen I activated integrin β1 (ITGB1)/MAPK signaling, which induced remodeling of cytoskeleton as well as fibrosis. At last, it was confirmed that neutralization of CCN1 reduced pleural fibrosis in vitro and in vivo. CONCLUSIONS: Upregulated CCN1 contributes to pleural fibrosis via changing collagen I conformation and ITGB1/MAPK pathway activation. Targeting CCN1 is a potential therapeutic strategy.
Established biomarkers are used for risk stratification after STEMI, but their relationship with cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR)-derived infarct characteristics at 30 days remains incompletely understood. Because 30-day CMR reflects an intermediate post-infarction stage between acute myocardial injury and the later chronic infarct state, we evaluated whether baseline high-sensitivity troponin T (hsTnT), N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP), cellular communication network factor 1 (CCN1), and proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) are associated with 30-day CMR parameters.In this pre-specified CLEVER-ACS substudy, associations between baseline biomarkers and 30-day CMR parameters were assessed using Spearman correlation. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis with area under the curve (AUC) was performed for associations after median dichotomization. Exploratory analyses assessed associations with relative CMR changes.56 STEMI patients were analyzed. hsTnT and NT-proBNP showed the strongest association pattern across functional, structural, volumetric, and microvascular 30-day CMR parameters. CCN1 was associated only with left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), and PCSK9 showed no significant associations. hsTnT and NT-proBNP showed relevant discriminatory performance for parameters including LVEF (AUC 0.79, 95% CI 0.67-0.91, and 0.81 [0.69-0.93]), left ventricular scar (0.87 [0.77-0.96] and 0.76 [0.63-0.89]), scar mass (0.84 [0.74-0.95] and 0.79 [0.67-0.91]), and microvascular obstruction (0.72 [0.56-0.87] and 0.71 [0.55-0.86]), respectively. Exploratory analyses linked only hsTnT and NT-proBNP to changes in CMR parameters.Baseline hsTnT and NT-proBNP showed strong associations with 30-day CMR parameters after STEMI, whereas CCN1 and PCSK9 provided no discriminatory value in this intermediate post-infarction stage.© 2026 The Authors.
Temporomandibular joint (TMJ) plays critical roles in the movement of mandible. TMJ osteoarthritis (TMJOA) leads to pain and limited jaw function. Histologically, TMJOA causes cartilage degradation and a reduction in extracellular matrix (ECM) stiffness. The superficial zone chondrocytes (SZC) contribute in the regeneration of the condylar fibrocartilage in TMJ, while their responses to the softened ECM remains unclear. Here, we showed that the ECM stiffness was decreased in the superficial zone cartilage of TMJOA patients and rat models. Single-cell RNA sequencing demonstrated the diminished phospholipid phosphatase 3 (Plpp3) expression, impaired migration, and ECM secretion, as well as the down-regulated PI3K-AKT pathway of SZC in rat TMJOA. Such alternations were also revealed by mRNA sequencing of SZC cultured on the softened ECM. Further studies disclosed that reduced ECM stiffness induced decreased PLPP3 on the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), which inhibited mitochondrial fission and respiration via increasing phosphatidic acid (PA) in the mitochondria. Meanwhile, deactivated PI3K-AKT pathway reduced the intra-nuclear translocation of transcriptional factor Cyclic AMP responsive element binding protein 5 (CREB5), which limited PLPP3 expression. Overexpression of PLPP3 alleviated the functional damage of SZC in vitro and the cartilage ECM degradation in vivo. This work displayed the functional impairment of SZC on the softened ECM and the underlying mechanism, as well as suggested PLPP3 as a potential target in the regenerative treatments for TMJOA.© 2026. The Author(s).
The objective was to assess the influence of cellular communication network factor 1 (CYR61) in obesity-induced kidney damage, as well as its potential mechanisms. An obesity-induced kidney damage was established in rats using a high-fat diet (HFD), and human proximal tubule epithelial (HK-2) cells were treated with palmitic acid (PA) for an in vitro model. Biochemical analysis was performed using test kits. The influence of CYR61 on kidney damage were evaluated by HE staining, periodic acid-Schiff staining, Masson's trichrome staining and western blot. The effect of CYR61 on cell apoptosis in vitro was assessed employing flow cytometry. The influence of CYR61 on lipid accumulation in vitro was assessed by Oil red O staining. Besides, the protein and mRNA expression levels were determined via western blot, immunohistochemistry, immunofluorescence and qRT-PCR. CYR61 was upregulated in rats with HFD-induced kidney injury and PA-treated HK-2 cells. CYR61 knockdown ameliorated metabolic parameters, kidney injury, oxidative stress, apoptosis, and inflammation, while suppressing endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress in rats with HFD-induced kidney damage. CYR61 knockdown inhibited apoptosis, inflammation, oxidative stress, lipid accumulation and ER stress in the PA-treated HK-2 cells; however, tunicamycin reversed these inhibitory effects. These findings confirmed that CYR61 knockdown could ameliorated oxidative stress and inflammation in PA-treated HK-2 cells and HFD-induced renal damage in rats by suppressing ER stress.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
C-Mannosyl tryptophan (C-Man-Trp), a unique monomeric glycosyl amino acid, is up-regulated in the blood of ovarian cancer patients; however, the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. In the present study, C-Man-Trp production and its dynamics were investigated in female B6C3F1 mice transplanted with mouse ovarian cancer OV2944-HM-1 (HM-1) cells. After transplantation, C-Man-Trp levels increased in the plasma, urine, ascites, peritoneal exudate cells (PECs), and tumor masses of mice. Furthermore, changes in the transcriptional expression of C-Man-Trp metabolism-related genes, C-mannosyltransferases (Dpy19l1 and Dpy19l3), and thrombospondin type I repeat superfamily genes (Thbs1, Spon1, and cellular communication network factor 1) were noted in tumor-associated cells and tissues. A cell-sorting analysis revealed that PECs mainly comprised myeloid-derived immune cells, such as macrophages and myeloid-derived suppressor cells, in addition to a small population of HM-1 tumor cells. C-Man-Trp levels were high in the macrophage fraction, but lower in the myeloid-derived suppressor cell fraction. C-Man-Trp was also produced in the ex vivo culture medium of macrophages isolated from PECs. Under macrophage depletion using clodronate liposomes, the ovarian cancer-stimulated up-regulation of C-Man-Trp was significantly suppressed in the plasma, ascites, PECs, and tumor masses of HM-1 cell-transplanted mice. C-Man-Trp levels in the plasma and peritoneal cavity cells of normal healthy mice were also suppressed by clodronate liposomes, whereas the expression of C-Man-Trp metabolism-related genes showed different changes from those in mice transplanted with HM-1 cells. Collectively, these results demonstrate that tumor-stimulated macrophages play a pivotal role in the dynamics of C-Man-Trp in mice with ovarian cancer.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Photodynamic therapy (PDT) holds promise for combination antitumor therapies by triggering immunogenic cell death (ICD). ICD is defined as the process by which tumor cells, upon death induced by external stimuli, convert from a non‑immunogenic to an immunogenic state, thereby mediating an anti‑tumor immune response in the host. But the poor aqueous solubility and inadequate tumor targeting of photosensitizers hinder their clinical translation. This study focuses on a novel BODIPY photosensitizer (M5) and aims to improve its antitumor efficacy via efficient tumor-targeted delivery and controllable release. Herein, we successfully synthesized iRGD-functionalized DSPE-PEG2000-iRGD and pH-sensitive HA-g-DEAP polymers, and further fabricated multifunctional M5/NMN/DEAP/iRGD-Lip liposomes via the thin-film dispersion method, which possess pH responsiveness and enhanced tumor-targeting ability. β-Nicotinamide Mononucleotide (NMN), a NAD + precursor, exerts a potent stimulatory effect on T-cell activation; 3-(Diethylamino)propylamine (DEAP) and hyaluronic acid (HA) can form pH-responsive HA-g-DEAP; the iRGD peptide (CRGDK/RGPDC), upon hydrolysis at its C‑terminus, exposes a motif that binds to neuropilin‑1 (NRP1), thereby conferring tumor‑targeting and tissue‑penetrating properties, endowing the liposomes with tumor-targeting and tissue-penetrating capabilities. M5 exhibits a high molar absorption coefficient of 5.33 × 104 M⁻¹ cm⁻¹ and a singlet oxygen quantum yield of 0.3854. In vitro cellular assays showed IC50 values of 104.1 nM and 72.68 nM in breast cancer MDA-MB-231 and 4T1 cells, respectively. Treatment with M5/NMN/DEAP/iRGD-Lip induced apoptosis rates of 56.84% and 55.6% in MDA-MB-231 and 4T1 cells, respectively. T-cell co-culture assays showed that M5/NMN/DEAP/iRGD-Lip increased the proportions of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells while reducing the proportion of regulatory T cells (Tregs) among CD4+ T cells. Collectively, the multifunctional M5/NMN/DEAP/iRGD-Lip liposomes integrate targeted delivery, pH-controlled release, and synergistic PDT-immunotherapy, effectively addressing key limitations of conventional photosensitizers. This work provides a promising nanoplatform for the development of novel combination therapies against breast cancer, laying a foundation for future preclinical and clinical translations.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
This study aimed to investigate associations of plasma and synovial fluid vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A) and neuropilin-1 (NRP1) levels with radiographic severity, pain sensitization-related features, and disease burden in knee osteoarthritis (KOA). Plasma VEGF-A and NRP1 were measured by sandwich ELISA in 120 patients with KOA (Kellgren-Lawrence [KL] grade 2, n = 40; grade 3, n = 52; grade 4, n = 28) and 53 healthy controls, while synovial fluid VEGF-A and NRP1 were assessed in the KOA group. Pain sensitization-related features and disease burden were evaluated using the Central Sensitization Inventory (CSI), pressure pain threshold (PPT), Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC), and visual analog scale (VAS). Plasma VEGF-A and NRP1 levels were elevated in KOA patients versus healthy controls and increased with KL grade, while synovial fluid VEGF-A and NRP1 rose with radiographic severity. Synovial fluid VEGF-A showed stronger discriminatory performance for radiographic severity than synovial fluid NRP1. After the Benjamini-Hochberg FDR correction, plasma and synovial fluid VEGF-A/NRP1 remained associated with VAS, WOMAC, CSI-defined symptom burden, and local PPT in the overall KOA cohort. Multivariable regression adjusted for KL grade, age, sex, BMI, and symptom duration showed that synovial fluid VEGF-A had the strongest independent associations with clinical outcomes. Bootstrap-validated combined ROC models, particularly those incorporating VEGF-A, showed good discriminatory performance for KOA status and severity stratification. These findings suggest that the VEGF-A-NRP1 axis, particularly synovial fluid VEGF-A, may serve as a biomarker framework for KOA severity assessment and symptom-related phenotyping.© 2026 The Author(s). The Kaohsiung Journal of Medical Sciences published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Kaohsiung Medical University.
Aim: Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have shown therapeutic potential in acute lung injury (ALI); however, the key functional components and their roles in regulating pulmonary vascular endothelial permeability remain unclear. This study aimed to identify functional proteins within MSC-derived exosomes (MSC-Exo) and elucidate their roles in regulating pulmonary vascular endothelial permeability to enhance MSC-Exo-based therapy. Methods: Proteomic analysis identified neuropilin-1 (NRP1) as a candidate functional protein in MSC-Exo. Functional assays, including annexin V flow cytometry for apoptosis, colony formation assays for proliferation, and Transwell migration and wound healing assays, were performed to assess these processes in injured pulmonary microvascular endothelial cells (PMVECs). Immunofluorescence and Western blotting were used to evaluate NRP1 localization, p130Cas phosphorylation and matrix metalloproteinases 1 (MMP1)/9 expression. In ALI rat models, histopathology, Evans blue extravasation, and immunohistochemistry were used to assess lung injury and vascular permeability. Results: NRP1-enriched MSC-Exo reduced apoptosis, enhanced colony formation, and promoted migration in PMVECs. Mechanistically, NRP1 modulated the Bcl-2/Bax ratio, inhibited caspase 3/9 activation, and promoted p130Cas phosphorylation with increased MMP1/9 expression. NRP1 also colocalized with PDGFR-α, suggesting a potential role in PDGF-BB signaling. In vivo, NRP1-overexpressing exosome showed superior efficacy in reducing pulmonary edema, vascular leakage, and restoring tight junction proteins, whereas NRP1 depletion impaired these effects. Conclusion: NRP1 in MSC-Exo enhances endothelial repair by promoting proliferation and migration while inhibiting apoptosis. In vivo, NRP1-enriched MSC-Exo improve vascular barrier function and attenuate lung injury, supporting their therapeutic potential in ALI.© The Author(s) 2026.
Immune cells exert influence on skeletal homeostasis, and re-establishing metabolic equilibrium is central to the management of steroid-induced osteonecrosis of the femoral head (SIONFH). However, the osteoimmune mechanisms underpinning this pathology remain largely under-researched. This study aimed to delineate these mechanisms, thereby informing early therapeutic strategies to restore bone homeostasis.We identified the key immune cell subsets associated with SIONFH, and investigated their upstream regulatory factors and downstream effector molecules by integrating multiomics analyses (samples derived from human peripheral blood, femoral head tissues, and rat peripheral blood), mining of the GSE123568 dataset, and performing in vivo and in vitro experiments.Clinical transcriptomics revealed enrichment of immune-related pathways, with ssGSEA consistently highlighting activated CD8+ T cells and Th1 cells. Correlation analyses demonstrated a stronger association between T cells and osteoblasts than osteoclasts (r = 0.8728 vs r = -0.065). Staphylococcal enterotoxin C2 (sec2) activated T cells both in vitro and in vivo, thereby augmenting osteogenic markers, enhancing bone marrow stromal cell (BMSC) differentiation, and elevating T cell-derived interferon gamma (IFNγ). Mechanistically, IFNγ facilitated signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1)-runt-related transcription factor 2 (Runx2) dissociation and Runx2 nuclear translocation, thereby potentiating osteogenesis. Multiomics and functional studies identified neuropilin 1 (NRP1) as a critical IFNγ/T cell-associated protein, downregulated by staphylococcal enterotoxin C2 (sec2). Pharmacological activation of NRP1 with certepetide validated its role in modulating IFNγ secretion and downstream signalling. Glucocorticoids suppress IFNγ production in T cells and weaken NRP1/IFNγ-driven osteogenic differentiation. Ultimately, sec2 reshaped antigen-presenting cell-mediated regulation of the T cell-NRP1/IFNγ axis, promoting bone formation and mitigating SIONFH.Glucocorticoids suppress T cell-derived IFNγ via NRP1 upregulation, thereby impairing Runx2 nuclear translocation and BMSC osteogenesis. Sec2 counteracts this cascade through antigen-presenting cell modulation, restoring the NRP1/IFNγ axis to preserve femoral head integrity.© 2026 Lu et al.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42396644 is a review article
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42393289
Glioblastoma (GBM) remains the most aggressive primary brain tumor, with poor prognosis largely due to limited drug delivery across the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and insufficient intratumoral penetration. To address these challenges, we developed a tumor-targeting peptide-drug conjugate (PDC), iRGD-DTX, by covalently linking docetaxel (DTX) to the tumor-penetrating peptide iRGD through a succinic acid linker. The resulting conjugate was successfully synthesized with high purity (98.72%) and exhibited favorable physicochemical and metabolic stability. The iRGD ligand enables a multistep transport process involving integrin binding, proteolytic activation, and subsequent interaction with neuropilin-1 (NRP-1), thereby facilitating BBB penetration and tumor infiltration. Compared with free DTX, iRGD-DTX showed a 2.04-fold increase in cellular uptake and a 5.25-fold enhancement in BBB transport across an in vitro BBB model. These improvements translated into enhanced antiproliferative activity against U251 glioma cells, reducing the IC₅₀ from 176.6 to 84.0 nM after 48 h treatment. In orthotopic glioma-bearing mice, iRGD-DTX significantly increased brain accumulation, achieving a 4.09-fold higher brain Cmax and a 5.08-fold higher drug-targeting index than free DTX. Enhanced brain delivery resulted in superior tumor growth inhibition while maintaining favorable tolerability. Notably, the maximum tolerated dose increased from 15 mg/kg for free DTX to 40 mg/kg for iRGD-DTX. Overall, this study demonstrates that iRGD-mediated peptide-drug conjugation effectively improves BBB penetration, brain targeting, and antitumor efficacy of DTX, highlighting a promising strategy for the development of targeted therapeutics against GBM.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Neuropilin-1 (NRP1) is a key mediator of tumor metastasis and progression by controlling cancer cell migration, angiogenesis, and tumor immune responses. As a result, NRP1 has recently gained considerable attention as a promising druggable target in cancer therapy. However, there are currently no FDA-approved therapeutics that inhibit NRP1, underscoring the pressing need to identify potent therapeutic candidates. Herein, a hybrid computational workflow integrating machine learning (ML), docking predictions, and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations was utilized for hunting potent NRP1 inhibitors from the NCI database. The anticipated active compounds were subsequently docked within the NRP1 active site employing docking predictions. Upon the docking findings, the top-ranking compounds were introduced to MD simulations throughout 250 ns, followed by binding energy (ΔGbinding) computations by the MM-GBSA approach. Upon the estimated ΔGbinding throughout 250 ns MD simulations, three compounds -namely NCI704332, NCI717568, and NCI674566- manifested promising binding affinities with ΔGbinding values of -36.7, -32.5, and -31.9 kcal/mol, respectively, relative to HRG/Arg-1 (calc. -30.2 kcal/mol). Post-MD analyses revealed the good stability of the identified NCI compounds within the NRP1 active site throughout 250 ns MD simulations. Additionally, ADME and drug-likeness assessments revealed favorable pharmacokinetic and oral bioavailability profiles for the identified NCI compounds. Ultimately, density functional theory computations were executed for the identified NCI compounds, demonstrating their high chemical reactivity. Collectively, NCI704332, NCI717568, and NCI674566 were recognized as potent candidates for in-vitro assays and further development as NRP1 inhibitors.© 2026. The Author(s).
BACKGROUND: A comprehensive single-cell map of Activated B-cell-like diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (ABC-DLBCL) that profiles malignant B-cell heterogeneity and TME immune dynamics is urgently needed. METHODS: We generated single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) profiles of 12,709 cells from a study of three ABC-DLBCL patients which was deposited in the GSE1824364. Malignant B-cell subsets were survival-linked by Scissor against two bulk ABC cohorts. R-loop scores, pseudotime, immune re-clustering, and cell–cell communication were computed; poor-outcome driver was validated by Immunohistochemistry (IHC). RESULTS: We identified five major immune cell types and 2350 malignant B cells. Malignant B cells showed upregulation of oxidative phosphorylation, MYC targets, and IL-2/STAT5 signaling. Reclustering revealed a poor-prognosis malignant B cells subpopulation enriched for inflammatory and immunosuppressive pathways. Pseudotime analysis indicated malignant B cells occupied later differentiation states with heightened B cell activation and immune evasion signaling. Subclustering of immune cells uncovered diverse T and myeloid populations, with CD8⁺T cells and macrophages being predominant. Cell–cell communication analysis revealed that poor-prognosis malignant B cells uniquely activated CD70-CD27 signaling, promoting Treg expansion and T cell exhaustion, while good-prognosis cells engaged T cells via ICAM1. Integrative analysis across datasets identified transmembrane immune signaling adaptor (TYROBP) as a key gene associated with poor survival, tumor aggressiveness, and Treg infiltration. IHC validation confirmed that TYROBP is significantly overexpressed in ABC-DLBCL tissues. CONCLUSION: Our study uncovered TYROBP as a readily detectable biomarker and a tractable target to counteract the dual drivers of resistance in ABC-DLBCL.
Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is a severe microvascular complication of diabetes. This study aimed to identify hub genes and explore potential therapeutic drugs for DN. Differentially expressed genes were analyzed between DN and normal samples from the GSE104948 and GSE47183 datasets. Hub genes were identified through weighted gene coexpression network analysis and protein-protein interaction network analysis and validated using two external datasets. Receiver operating characteristic curves were employed to assess the diagnostic accuracy of the hub genes. Virtual screening identified potential small-molecule compounds targeting the hub genes CD163 and transmembrane immune signaling adaptor TYROBP (TYROBP). High-glucose (HG)-induced human glomerular mesangial cells (HGMCs) were used to construct an in vitro DN model. Cell viability was assessed using a cell counting kit-8, and inflammatory factors were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and mesangial extracellular matrix-related protein levels were detected by Western blot. Two hub genes, CD163 and TYROBP, were identified as significantly upregulated in DN samples and HG-induced HGMCs, demonstrating high specificity and sensitivity for DN diagnosis. Demethyleneberberine (DMB) and dehydroevodiamine (DHE) exhibited strong binding affinity to CD163 and TYROBP and effectively suppressed HG-induced HGMC proliferation, inflammatory responses, and extracellular matrix deposition. In conclusion, CD163 and TYROBP serve as key biomarkers and therapeutic targets for DN, while DMB and DHE show promise as natural compounds for DN treatment.© 2025 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Decidualization is a critical physiological process necessary for successful embryo implantation and pregnancy maintenance. Disruptions in this process can result in infertility and various pregnancy complications. Ten-eleven translocation protein 3 (TET3) is a key molecule in the dedifferentiation process, but its pathogenic mechanism remains unclear. In this study, we aimed to uncover the molecular mechanisms by which TET3 modulates decidualization through utilizing an in vitro ESC model overexpressing TET3. TET3 overexpression was found to inhibit the transcription of ITGA10 (integrin subunit alpha 10), a novel downstream target, thereby suppressing the proliferation and migration of endometrial stromal cells. This repression of ITGA10 is independent of TET3's catalytic activity and instead relies on its non-catalytic function. Mechanistically, TET3 recruits histone deacetylases 1 and 2 (HDAC1/2) to the ITGA10 promoter to repress its transcription. Silencing HDAC1 or HDAC2 individually had little effect on the repressive action of TET3. However, simultaneous knockdown of HDAC1 and HDAC2 via siRNA, or pharmacological inhibition using the HDAC1/2 inhibitor romidepsin, effectively reversed TET3-mediated repression of ITGA10. These findings uncover a non-catalytic role for TET3 in regulating decidualization and provide insights into potential therapeutic targets for pregnancy-related disorders.Copyright © 2025 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Kidney renal clear cell carcinoma (KIRC) is the most prevalent type of renal cell carcinoma (RCC), with a high incidence and mortality rate. There is a lack of sensitive biomarkers. Therefore, the discovery of accurate biomarkers for KIRC patients is critical to improve prognosis.We determined hub genes and their associated pathways involved in the pathogenesis of KIRC from the GSE66272 dataset consisting of KIRC (n = 26) and corresponding control (n = 26) samples and later validated the expression and methylation level of the identified hub genes on The Cancer Genomic Atlas (TCGA) datasets and Human RCC 786-O and normal HK-2 cell lines through RNA sequencing (RNA-seq), Reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), and targeted bisulfite sequencing (bisulfite-seq) analyses.The identified up-regulated four hub genes include TYROBP (Transmembrane Immune Signaling Adaptor TYROBP), PTPRC (Protein tyrosine phosphatase, receptor type, C), LCP2 (Lymphocyte cytosolic protein 2), and ITGB2 (Integrin Subunit Beta 2). Moreover, the higher expression of TYROBP, PTPRC, LCP2, and ITGB2 in KIRC patients insignificantly correlates with a poor prognosis in KIRC patients. In addition, hub genes were involved in the "Fc epsilon RI signaling pathway, asthma, natural cell killer mediated cytotoxicity, T cell receptor signaling pathway, primary immunodeficiency, Fc gamma R-mediated phagocytosis, malaria, leukocyte transendothelial migration, and legionellosis" pathways and associated with the infiltration level of CD8+ T, CD4+ T, and macrophage cells.Our integrated in silico and in vitro analysis identified important hub genes (TYROBP, PTPRC, LCP2, and ITGB2) involved in the pathogenesis of KIRC as possible diagnostic biomarkers.AJTR Copyright © 2023.
Retinoblastoma (RB) is the most common type of aggressive intraocular malignancy in children. The alteration of immunity during RB progression and invasion has not yet been well defined. This study investigated significantly altered immune-associated genes and cells related to RB invasion.The differentially expressed immune-related genes (IRGs) in noninvasive RB and invasive RB were identified by analysis of two microarray datasets (GSE97508 and GSE110811). Hub IRGs were further identified by real time PCR. The single-sample gene set enrichment analysis algorithm and Pearson correlation analysis were used to define immune cell infiltration and the relationships between hub IRGs and immune cells. Cell viability and migration were evaluated by CCK-8 and Transwell assays. A xenograft mouse model was used to verify the relationship between Src homology 3 (SH3) domain GRB2-like 2 (SH3GL2) expression and myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs).Eight upregulated genes and six downregulated IRGs were identified in invasive RB. Seven IRGs were confirmed by real-time PCR. Moreover, the proportions of MDSCs were higher in invasive RB tissues than in noninvasive RB tissues. Furthermore, correlation analysis of altered immune genes and cells suggested that SH3GL2, Langerhans cell protein 1 (LCP1) and transmembrane immune signaling adaptor TYROBP have strong connections with MDSCs. Specifically, decreased SH3GL2 expression promoted the migration of RB cells in vitro, increased the tumor size and weight, and increased the numbers of MDSCs in the tumor and spleen in vivo.This study indicated that SH3GL2 and MDSCs play a critical role in RB progression and invasion and provide candidate targets for the treatment of RB.
Although atelocollagen gel is used as a scaffold for culturing human articular cartilage-derived chondrocytes, little is known about cell-gel interactions. In this study, we investigated the mechanism via which atelocollagen gel affects human articular cartilage-derived chondrocytes. Two types of three-dimensional cultures of human articular cartilage-derived chondrocytes (i.e., with and without atelocollagen gel) were compared. While the amount of atelocollagen gel in culture gradually decreased with time, it promoted the expression of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) during the early stages of culture. Genome-wide differential gene expression analysis revealed that cell membrane- and extracellular matrix-related genes were highly ranked among up- and down-regulated groups in cells cultured in the presence of atelocollagen gel. Among the integrin family of genes, the expression of integrin subunit alpha 2 and integrin subunit alpha 10 was significantly increased in the presence of atelocollagen gel. Blocking α2β1 integrin with the specific inhibitor BTT 3033 had a significant effect on cell proliferation, MMP expression, and cell shape, as well as on the response to mechanical stimulation. Taken together, our findings indicate that the α2β1 integrin pathway plays an important role in the interaction of atelocollagen gel with human articular cartilage-derived chondrocytes and may be a potential therapeutic target for articular cartilage disorders.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a global health issue, but the precise underlying mechanism has not yet been elucidated. The present study aimed to integrate microRNA (miRNA or miR) and mRNA profiles of AD and identify hub genes via bioinformatics analysis. Datasets associated with AD (GSE113141, GSE104249 and GSE138382) were integrated. Bioinformatics analysis was used to identify the hub mRNAs. TargetScan was used to predict miRNAs that have binding sites for the hub genes. Reverse transcription‑quantitative (RT‑q)PCR and western blot analysis was performed to assess miRNA and mRNA expression levels in APP/PS1 transgenic mice and human U251 cells. Luciferase reporter assay and RNA interference were utilized to verify the functions of these miRNAs in vitro. Bioinformatics analysis demonstrated that expression levels of the gene encoding transmembrane immune signaling adaptor TYROBP were upregulated in both the GSE113141 and GSE104249 datasets; TYROBP also served as the hub gene in AD. miR‑628‑5p was predicted to have binding sites for TYROBP and was downregulated in GSE138382. RT‑qPCR confirmed low miR‑628‑5p and high TYROBP expression levels in APP/PS1 transgenic mice and human U251 cells. Western blot analysis demonstrated high protein expression levels of amyloid β (Aβ) precursor protein, Aβ and TYROBP in APP/PS1 transgenic mice and U251 cells. Dual luciferase reporter assay confirmed that TYROBP was targeted by miR‑628‑5p. miR‑628‑5p/TYROBP may inhibit progressive neurodegeneration in AD and could be used as novel biomarkers and candidate drug targets.
This study explored the mechanism by which Tougu Xiaotong Capsules(TGXTC) improve osteoarthritis(OA) degeneration, focusing on the regulation of cholesterol metabolism in OA chondrocytes via microRNA-16-5p(miR-16-5p). In vivo experiments were performed. A total of fifty 8-week-old C57BL/6 mice were acclimated for one week and then randomly divided into a blank group(10 mice) and a modeling group(40 mice). The OA model was established in the modeling group using the modified Hulth method. These mice were then randomly subdivided into four groups(n=10 per group): model, TGXTC, miR-16-5p antagomir, and TGXTC+miR-16-5p antagomir. Mice in the antagomir groups received intra-articular injections of miR-16-5p antagomir. After four weeks of intervention, cartilage structure was observed using Masson's trichrome, hematoxylin-eosin(HE), safranin O-fast green, and toluidine blue staining. The mRNA levels of miR-16-5p and cholesterol metabolism-related factors-ATP-binding cassette transporter A1(ABCA1), apolipoprotein A1(ApoA1), liver X receptor beta(LXRβ), sterol regulatory element-binding protein(SREBP), cholesterol-25-hydroxylase(CH25H), 25-hydroxycholesterol-7-alpha-hydroxylase(CYP7B1), and endoplasmic reticulum stress-associated factors C/EBP homologous protein(CHOP) and caspase-3, were detected by quantitative real-time PCR(RT-qPCR). The protein expression levels of ABCA1, ApoA1, LXRβ, SREBP, CH25H, CYP7B1, CHOP, and caspase-3 were analyzed by Western blot. In vitro experiments were also conducted. A chondrocyte degeneration model was established by stimulating mouse chondrocytes with thapsigargin(TG). RT-PCR was used to examine the levels of ABCA1, ApoA1, LXRβ, SREBP, CH25H, CYP7B1, CHOP and caspase-3 under miR-16-5p inhibition conditions. Flow cytometry was employed to assess the effect of TGXTC on the apoptosis rate of TG-induced chondrocytes following miR-16-5p inhibition. Histological staining results showed that, compared to the model group, the TGXTC group exhibited relatively clear and intact cartilage layer structure. Furthermore, compared to the miR-16-5p antagomir group, the TGXTC+miR-16-5p antagomir group showed improved cartilage surface damage. RT-PCR results indicated that, compared to the model group, the TGXTC group had significantly increased mRNA levels of miR-16-5p and ABCA1, ApoA1, and LXRβ, while the mRNA levels of SREBP, CH25H, CYP7B1, CHOP, and caspase-3 decreased. Western blot results showed that, compared to the model group, the TGXTC group showed upregulated protein expression of ABCA1, ApoA1, and LXRβ, and downregulated protein expression of SREBP, CH25H, CYP7B1, CHOP, and caspase-3. The RT-qPCR results for the in vitro experiments showed that in miR-16-5p-inhibited chondrocytes, TGXTC intervention increased the mRNA levels of ABCA1, ApoA1, and LXRβ, and decreased those of SREBP, CH25H, CYP7B1, CHOP, and caspase-3. Flow cytometry results confirmed that TGXTC mitigated the apoptosis of TG-induced chondrocytes. In conclusion, TGXTC can alleviate cholesterol metabolism disorders in osteoarthritic chondrocytes by regulating miR-16-5p.
Mechanical chest compressions during cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) can produce pulmonary edema, described as cardiopulmonary resuscitation-associated lung edema (CRALE), which has been largely interpreted as a hydrostatic phenomenon. However, whether early molecular changes associated with epithelial injury, coagulation, and inflammation are also present during resuscitation remains uncertain. We hypothesized that bronchoalveolar lavage fluid proteomics would identify early protein signatures of lung injury after CPR.Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) was collected separately from the right and left caudal lung lobes of nine pigs before cardiac arrest and again after ventricular fibrillation, 8 min of untreated arrest, and up to 45 min of CPR. In animals achieving return of spontaneous circulation, post-CPR BALF was obtained immediately after resuscitation; in the remaining animals, sampling was performed at the end of CPR. Proteins were digested, tandem mass tag 18-plex labeled, and analyzed by high-resolution liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. Differentially abundant proteins were defined by fold change >1.5 or <0.67 with P < 0.05. Functional enrichment, histologic assessment, and western blot validation were performed.A total of 1088 proteins were identified in left lung BALF and 1200 in right lung BALF. Comparison of pre- and post-CPR samples identified 74 and 78 differentially abundant proteins in the left and right lungs, respectively, with 28 shared proteins across both lungs. Among the most increased proteins were plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (SERPINE1/PAI-1), apolipoprotein A1, inter-alpha inhibitor family proteins, vitronectin, histones, and advanced glycation end-product receptor (AGER). Functional enrichment showed over-representation of proteins related to complement and coagulation, platelet degranulation, lipid metabolism, and extracellular matrix signaling. Histology showed mild septal thickening, vascular neutrophilic infiltration, interstitial edema, and patchy fibrin deposition, consistent with early pneumocyte injury and mild inflammation. Western blot confirmed increased post-CPR abundance of PAI-1 and apolipoprotein A1.Early after resuscitation, BALF proteomics identified molecular changes characterized by increased antifibrinolytic and complement-related proteins, together with proteins associated with epithelial and endothelial stress. These findings suggest that pulmonary abnormalities after CPR may involve not only hydrostatic edema but also an early biologic response consistent with lung injury, which may contribute to post-cardiac arrest respiratory dysfunction and progression to acute respiratory distress syndrome.© 2026 The Authors.
Background/Objectives: The apolipoprotein B to apolipoprotein A1 (ApoB/A1) ratio has been proposed as a marker of cardiovascular risk, but its value for assessing extracranial and intracranial atherosclerosis beyond conventional lipid markers remains uncertain. We evaluated whether the ApoB/A1 ratio improves discrimination of severe atherosclerosis in high-risk statin-naive patients. Methods: We retrospectively included 3416 statin-naive patients who underwent lipid profiling and carotid duplex ultrasonography and/or cerebrovascular imaging between 2014 and 2023. The primary outcome was stenosis severity, categorized as normal, mild (<50% stenosis), or severe (≥50% stenosis, including occlusion), based on clinical imaging reports. Secondary outcomes were carotid plaque score and the number of stenotic intracranial vessels. Associations were assessed using multivariable ordinal logistic regression with 1-SD-standardized lipid markers. Results: The ApoB/A1 ratio was independently associated with greater stenosis severity (adjusted odds ratio 1.24 per 1-SD increase, 95% CI 1.15-1.35; p < 0.0001). Adding ApoB/A1 to a model including clinical covariates, LDL-C, and HDL-C significantly improved discrimination of severe stenosis on every metric examined (continuous NRI +0.142, 95% CI 0.053-0.227; IDI +0.0058, 0.0026-0.0088; likelihood ratio p = 0.0004), although the absolute increase in AUC was modest (0.660 to 0.668; ΔAUC +0.008; DeLong p = 0.026). Associations were consistent for carotid plaque score and intracranial vessel-count outcomes. Conclusions: In high-risk statin-naive patients undergoing carotid or cerebrovascular evaluation, the ApoB/A1 ratio was independently associated with atherosclerosis severity and provided modest incremental discrimination beyond conventional lipid markers. Apolipoprotein assessment may help refine risk stratification in this population.
As a transcription factor, nuclear receptor subfamily 4 group A member 2 (NR4A2) regulates target gene transcription by directly binding to response elements within gene promoters. However, the exact role and molecular mechanism of NR4A2 in fracture healing have not been fully elucidated. Here, we identified NR4A2 as a key functional molecular cargo enriched in exosomes secreted by aged bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs). Upon uptake by recipient cells, exosomal NR4A2 functioned as a transcriptional repressor that specifically bound to the promoter region of the Neural EGFL-like 2 (NELL2) gene, thereby suppressing its transcription. We further demonstrated that NELL2 acted as a critical adaptor protein that enhanced the binding affinity between fibronectin 1 (Fn1) and integrin β1, thereby licensing FAK/AKT cascade activation essential for osteogenic differentiation. Mechanistically, NR4A2-mediated suppression of NELL2 impaired the assembly of the NELL2/Fn1/integrin β1 complex and attenuated FAK/AKT phosphorylation, thereby inhibiting osteogenesis and culminating in delayed fracture healing. Collectively, our findings delineate a novel exosome-dependent regulatory axis, through which aged BMSCs deteriorated the bone repair microenvironment via the NR4A2/NELL2/FAK-AKT signaling cascade. This study reveals a previously unrecognized molecular mechanism underlying age-associated fracture healing impairment.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Cerebral venous sinus thrombosis (CVST) is a rare but potentially fatal neurological emergency during pregnancy and the puerperium. Data on its prognosis in early pregnancy and the risk of recurrence in subsequent pregnancies remain limited, particularly in Chinese populations. This study aimed to identify risk factors associated with the occurrence and prognosis of pregnancy-associated CVST and to evaluate the outcomes of subsequent pregnancies in affected women.We conducted a retrospective case-control study at a tertiary referral center in China from January 2010 to June 2024. The study included 20 consecutive pregnant or postpartum women diagnosed with CVST and 198 controls without CVST. Clinical characteristics, laboratory indicators, neuroimaging findings, and treatment outcomes were compared between groups. Surviving patients were followed up for a median of 90.6 months to assess subsequent pregnancy rates and CVST recurrence.Of the 20 CVST patients, 7 (35.0%) occurred during early pregnancy and 13 (65.0%) in the postpartum period. The early pregnancy group had higher rates of intracerebral hemorrhage (85.71% vs. 7.69%), cerebral infarction (57.14% vs. 30.77%), and mortality (42.86% vs. 7.69%) compared with the postpartum group. Lower apolipoprotein A1 (APO-A1) levels were associated with CVST occurrence (OR = 0.005, 95% CI: 0.000-0.158, p = 0.003). During follow-up, 3 of 16 surviving patients (18.75%) had subsequent pregnancies, and no CVST recurrence was observed.Early pregnancy CVST is associated with a more severe clinical course and higher mortality than postpartum CVST, warranting vigilant monitoring. Lower APO-A1 levels may serve as an associative marker for CVST risk. Based on our limited data, a prior history of CVST may not be an absolute contraindication to future pregnancy, though individual risk assessment and multidisciplinary management are essential.Copyright © 2026 Shen, Gu, Liu, Wu, Li and Guan.
To investigate the distribution of PON1 Q192R and L55M polymorphisms and serum PON1 concentration in Saudi patients with T2DM and to evaluate their associations with biochemical parameters and diabetes-related complications.In this case-control study, 220 patients with T2DM and 120 healthy controls were enrolled from several hospitals in Madinah, KSA, from May 1, 2025 to December 15, 2025. Clinical and biochemical assessments included fasting plasma glucose (FPG), HbA1c, lipid profile, apolipoprotein A1 (ApoA1), and apolipoprotein B (ApoB). PON1 Q192R and L55M genotypes were determined using PCR-RFLP, and serum PON1 concentration was measured by ELISA. Associations between genotypes, PON1 levels, metabolic indices, and diabetic complications were analyzed.Serum PON1 levels were significantly lower in patients with T2DM compared with controls (p < 0.001). The genotype and allele frequencies of PON1 Q192R and L55M polymorphisms did not differ significantly between groups (p=0.18); Q192R allele: (p=0.21); L55M genotype: (p=0.58); L55M allele: (p=0.43). While neither polymorphism was associated with T2DM susceptibility, the Q192R variant was significantly associated with cardiovascular disease among patients with T2DM (p = 0.04). Both polymorphisms were significantly associated with serum PON1 concentration and glycemic indices (FPG and HbA1c; p < 0.05), whereas no significant associations were observed with BMI or lipid parameters.In Saudi patients with T2DM, PON1 levels are notably lower, indicating reduced antioxidant defense. Although certain genetic polymorphisms of PON1 do not affect diabetes susceptibility, the Q192R variant may increase cardiovascular risks in T2DM, suggesting its role as a biomarker for cardiometabolic risk rather than disease development.Copyright: © Pakistan Journal of Medical Sciences.
Leptomeningeal Metastasis (LM) is a catastrophic complication of systemic malignancies with poor prognosis and significant diagnostic challenges. Extracellular vesicle (EV)-based liquid biopsy is an emerging technology that may improve the detection, prognosis, and therapeutic monitoring for LM. This systematic review aims to critically appraise and synthesize existing evidence on the use of EV-derived biomarkers from cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) or serum for the diagnosis, prognosis, and therapeutic monitoring of LM. A systematic search of PubMed, ScienceDirect, Semantic Scholar, and Google Scholar was conducted up to January 2025. Eligible studies evaluated EV-associated molecular biomarkers (microRNAs or proteins) in LM patients using CSF or serum samples. Data extraction included study design, sample source, EV isolation method, biomarker type, validation method, and diagnostic/prognostic relevance. Risk of bias was assessed using QUADAS-2. Ten studies met inclusion criteria, encompassing EV miRNA and proteomic profiling in LM, primarily from non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and medulloblastoma. miR-21 consistently correlated with poor prognosis and therapy resistance. Novel candidates such as miR-183-5p demonstrated high diagnostic accuracy (AUC 1.0 in a discovery cohort), targeting PTEN pathways. EV-derived proteins including fibronectin-1 (FN1), transketolase (TKT), and complement C2 also showed strong discriminative potential. Heterogeneity in EV isolation techniques and small sample sizes limited meta-analysis feasibility. EV-based liquid biopsy holds cautious promise as a minimally invasive tool for LM diagnosis, prognosis, and therapeutic monitoring. Larger, multicenter studies with standardized protocols are required to validate these findings and facilitate clinical translation.© 2026. The Author(s).
Patients with familial hypercholesterolemia (FH) are at high risk of coronary artery disease (CAD), and its prediction is of great clinical importance. This study aimed to identify predictors of CAD and construct an effective risk prediction model for Korean patients with FH.Clinical and laboratory data of 245 patients were collected from the Korean FH registry. CAD was defined as ≥50% coronary stenosis on invasive or computed tomographic angiography. The cholesterol efflux capacity (CEC) was measured using J774A1 cells and radiolabeled cholesterol. Predictors of CAD were identified by multivariable logistic regression analysis, and the best-performing prediction model was determined based on its statistical indices.The participants' mean age was 49.1 years; 92 (37.6%) were male, and 41 (16.7%) had CAD. Age [odds ratio (OR) 1.05; p=0.02], hypertension (OR 7.28; p<0.0001), low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (OR 1.60; p=0.02), and high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (HDL-C) (OR 0.93; p=0.002) were identified as predictors of CAD in the multivariable analysis. In another analysis, age, hypertension, body mass index (OR 1.16; p=0.03), and apolipoprotein A1 (OR 0.97; p=0.002) were predictive of CAD. CEC did not have a significant predictive value. The best-performing CAD prediction model included six clinical and laboratory variables, with an area under the curve of 0.878. The effects of hypertension, smoking, and HDL-C were particularly influential.Traditional risk factors, including hypertension and HDL-C, were predictors of CAD in Korean patients with FH, whereas CEC was not. The resulting CAD prediction model demonstrated satisfactory performance in this population.© Copyright: Yonsei University College of Medicine 2026.
The global burden and serious outcomes of coronary heart disease (CHD) highlight the need for further comprehensive research. This study explored the predictive value of glycated apolipoprotein A-1 (G-apoA1) and glycated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (G-LDL-C) levels for coronary artery obstruction severity and future major adverse cardiovascular events (MACEs) among patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). This study included 3,292 patients with T2DM who were followed up for 5 years. Patients were stratified into quartiles of G-apoA1 and G-LDL-C, and associations with the incidence of MACEs were assessed by comparing quartile groups. Logistic regression and Spearman's correlation analyses were conducted to evaluate the associations of G‑apoA1 and G‑LDL‑C with CHD risk, while Cox regression was used to estimate the risk of MACEs. G-apoA1 and G-LDL-C levels were significantly higher in patients with T2DM and CHD than in those with T2DM without CHD and were identified as independent risk factors for CHD [G-apoA1: odds ratio (OR) = 2.021, 95%CI: 1.622-2.519, p < 0.001; G-LDL-C: OR = 2.038, 95%CI: 1.616-2.570, p < 0.001]. These levels were also positively correlated with the number of obstructed coronary arteries and the Gensini score (GS). During the 5-year follow-up period, 443 patients experienced MACEs. An analysis using restricted cubic spline models revealed that the incidence of MACEs increased with higher G-apoA1 and G-LDL-C levels. Multivariate Cox regression analysis showed a significantly higher risk of MACEs among patients in the highest quartile than among those in the lowest quartile [G-apoA1: hazard ratio (HR):2.183, 95%CI: 1.630-2.923, p < 0.001; G-LDL-C: HR:2.798, 95%CI: 2.053-3.812, p < 0.001]. This study showed that G-apoA1 and G-LDL-C levels were associated with CHD in patients with T2DM and correlated with the severity of coronary obstruction. Moreover, higher G-apoA1 and G-LDL-C levels were associated with an increased incidence of MACEs.© 2026. The Author(s).
Plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI-1) is a member of the serine protease inhibitor family critical in regulating fibrinolysis and is associated with diverse pathologies including cardiovascular disease, metabolic disorders, cancer, aging, and many others. Despite its clinical significance and extensive research, there are as of yet still no FDA or EMA-approved therapeutics that specifically target PAI-1. This review examines therapeutic strategies including small molecules, RNA aptamers, monoclonal antibodies, and repurposed pharmaceuticals. Notable challenges in the development of these therapies include the interplay of PAI-1 with tissue specific mediators such as vitronectin and the multi-dimensional, tissue-specific effects of PAI-1 modulation. Promising approaches will require tissue- and temporal expression-based interventions. Further characterization of PAI-1's structural dynamics and its role in various disease processes will shape its potential as a therapeutic target across broad fields in medicine.Thieme. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42530277 is a review article
The outer membranes (OMs) of bacterial pathogens are potent virulence factors and serve as the first line of defense against host immunity. Their striking bilayer asymmetry is essential for function but poses an exceptional challenge for reconstitution in vitro, limiting structure-activity analysis to artificial non-native platforms that can interfere with structure and function. Here, we describe bacterial OM vesicles (OMVs), natively secreted from the cellular OM during bacterial cell growth and development, as an effective vehicle for structure-activity analysis in situ based on solid-state nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR). We show that E. coli OMVs may be engineered to express a range of isotopically labeled target OM proteins, and isolated for solid-state NMR magic angle spinning (MAS) experiments. High resolution NMR spectra are obtained for three bacterial virulence factors: the adhesion invasion locus (Ail) and plasminogen activator protease (Pla) from Yersinia pestis, and the major porin (OmpF) from E. coli. The spectra reflect the native protein structures, report on the specific OMV membrane environment, and may be used to map protein interactions with their human host ligands, specifically the multifunctional glycoprotein Vitronectin (Vn) which binds Ail as part of its serum protection activity. Notably, OMVs support protein functionality, enabling structure and activity to be correlated in situ. OMVs expressing plasmid-encoded Ail recruit human Vn and confer serum protection to wild-type E. coli cells, while OMVs expressing plasmid-encoded Pla support the proteolytic activity of Pla. Taken together, the data establish OMVs as a robust new platform for structure-activity analysis of OM proteins in situ, offer new insights about the complexity of the bacterial OM, and reveal additional functional aspects of OMVs as key ancillary units of bacterial infection.
Macrophages are key drivers of inflammatory and fibrotic diseases, and their activation is shaped by interactions in their tissue microenvironment. However, dissecting the processes that drive immunopathology has proved challenging, as traditional two-dimensional (2D) culture methods fail to capture the complex molecular environment that macrophages inhabit in vivo. To address this, we generated a 3D in vitro model to better mimic the in vivo biophysical microenvironment. We show that the extracellular matrix protein vitronectin promotes a previously unknown profibrotic macrophage phenotype in 3D that is characterized by increased expression of the nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) ectoenzyme CD38, elevated glycolysis and mitochondrial metabolism, and synthesis of the immunomodulatory metabolite itaconate. This is validated in vivo where patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis have elevated vitronectin and MRC1+CD38+ macrophages, while vitronectin-deficient mice were protected from an experimental model of lung injury and fibrosis. Thus, we uncover a previously unidentified link between the composition of tissue niches and macrophage profibrotic function via altered metabolic reprogramming.
Amyloid beta (Aβ) oligomers are key mediators of synaptic dysfunction and neural circuit impairment in Alzheimer's disease (AD). While plasma Aβ oligomerization propensity (OAβ) correlates with cerebral amyloid pathology and cognitive decline, the systemic modulators of OAβ remain poorly understood. In this study, we identified the albumin interactome (albumin and its associated proteins) as a critical regulator of OAβ. Selective depletion of the albumin interactome from plasma eliminated the OAβ difference between amyloid PET (A-PET)- and A-PET+ individuals. Proteomic analysis revealed widespread network alterations within the albumin interactome of A-PET+ individuals. Notably, vitronectin (VTN) was identified as a key hub protein that was significantly reduced in A-PET+ individuals. Functional assays and in silico modeling demonstrated that VTN directly bound to Aβ and inhibited its oligomerization. Additionally, plasma VTN levels distinguished A-PET status. These findings suggest that systemic changes in the albumin interactome, particularly the reduction in VTN, are associated with dysregulated Aβ dynamics in plasma. Our results provide novel insights into systemic mechanisms underlying AD pathology and identify VTN as a potential peripheral modulator and biomarker of cerebral amyloid pathology.
Systemic delivery of messenger RNA (mRNA) to target tissues and cells using lipid nanoparticles (LNPs) holds transformative potential for gene therapy. However, most clinically validated LNP exhibit strong liver tropism, and redirecting their organ specificity without redesigning entirely new chemistries remains challenging. Here we present a ligand-mediated lipid reprogramming approach that repurposes chemically defined, liver-tropic, ionizable lipids (lipidoids) for mRNA delivery beyond the liver. From a library of 90 degradable lipidoids, we identified 2-t6b as a potent liver-targeting platform. By site-specific displaying of small molecule ligands onto 2-t6b headgroup, we engineered a series of reconfigured lipidoids that achieve lung-specific targeting while retaining the parent delivery scaffold. Ligand7-2-t6b-lipid-functionalized LNP achieved over 200-fold higher mRNA translation in the lungs compared to the parent liver-tropic LNP. Proteomics and molecular docking analysis revealed enhanced binding of the modified lipid to vitronectin, a serum glycoprotein that improves integrin binding and thus promotes cellular uptake and translation efficiency. Ligand-mediated 2-t6b/ligand7 LNPs achieved outperformed efficacy and therapeutic potential in lung-specific genome editing relative to SORT-constructed 2-t6b LNP system. Our modular reprogramming strategy provides a generalizable framework to upgrade existing liver-biased LNPs into lung-selective mRNA carriers, advancing next-generation tissue-specific mRNA therapies for gene editing, protein replacement therapy, and regenerative medicine.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Lichen sclerosus (LS) is a chronic inflammatory skin disease characterized by limited treatment options and an unclear pathogenesis. This study aimed to identify potential therapeutic targets for LS by integrating druggable genome (DG) data with multi-omics and Mendelian randomization (MR).Blood expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs) were obtained from the eQTLGen consortium, and protein quantitative trait loci (pQTLs) were sourced from the UK Biobank Pharma Proteomics Project (UKB-PPP) and the Decode cohorts. Outcome data for LS were derived from the FinnGen R12 database. We performed two-sample MR analyses to estimate the causal effects of druggable genes on LS, followed by sensitivity analyses, Steiger directionality tests, and multi-omics integration. For multi-omics integration, we cross-referenced eQTL- and pQTL-derived causal genes to identify overlapping genes supported by both transcriptomic and proteomic evidence. Functional concordance was further assessed by comparing effect directions and magnitudes between the two molecular layers. Potential drugs were predicted using the DGIdb database, and molecular docking was performed using CB-Dock2.After rigorous screening and Holm-Bonferroni correction, we identified 50 druggable genes (eQTL-derived) and 35 druggable proteins (pQTL-derived) with causal effects on LS. Integrative multi-omics analysis revealed integrin subunit beta 2 (ITGB2) and poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP1) as the most robust therapeutic targets. Phenome-wide association study (PheWAS) analysis indicated no significant pleiotropic effects for these genes. Protein-protein interaction and pathway enrichment analyses showed that these genes are involved in integrin-mediated cell adhesion and ADP-ribosylation processes. The DGIdb database predicted 24 potential drugs targeting ITGB2 and PARP1, and molecular docking confirmed strong binding affinities (Vina score < -5).This integrative MR study identifies ITGB2 and PARP1 as promising therapeutic targets for LS, providing a foundation for future drug development and personalized treatment strategies.© 2026 The Authors.
Clinically useful noninvasive biomarkers for gastric cancer remain limited. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) carry a molecular cargo reflective of their cells of origin and have emerged as promising candidates for blood-based cancer biomarkers. We aimed to identify EV-associated protein biomarkers for gastric cancer via a proteomic approach.Proteomic profiling of EVs was performed using one normal gastric cell line (Hs738st/int) and two gastric cancer cell lines (AGS and NCI-N87). Selected proteins were validated in blood-derived EVs isolated from plasma samples of 10 healthy controls and 36 patients with gastric cancer.Proteomic analysis identified 224 differentially expressed proteins whose expression was consistently altered in gastric cancer cell line-derived EVs. Among these, vitronectin (VTN) and laminin subunit alpha-3 (LAMA3) were selected based on their consistent upregulation. EV-associated LAMA3 levels were significantly higher in patients with gastric cancer than in healthy controls (p=0.003), with significant elevations observed from stage II onward (p=0.041, p=0.017, and p=0.004 for stages II, III, and IV, respectively). EV-associated VTN levels were not significantly different overall (p=0.089); however, stage-specific analysis demonstrated significant increases in VTN levels in patients with stage III (p=0.036) and stage IV (p=0.005) gastric cancer. Both EV-associated VTN and LAMA3 levels showed significant positive correlations with the cancer stage (ρ=0.564 and ρ=0.611, respectively; both p<0.001).The levels of EV-associated VTN and LAMA3 appear to be more closely associated with disease progression than with early-stage detection of gastric cancer. These findings suggest that EV-based proteomic biomarkers may have clinical utility for monitoring tumor progression in patients with clinically advanced gastric cancer.
The process of tissue injury repair involves the synergistic effects of angiogenesis and immune regulation, yet a single molecule rarely can regulate both processes. To address this, we designed a fusion protein, VGC, by integrating the potent chemotactic property of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) with the cell-anchoring domain of vitronectin (VTN). This design yielded an integrated system capable of recruiting, anchoring and activating repair cells. The VGC, connecting VTN and GM-CSF via linker peptides (GGGGSGGGGS), was successfully produced by microbial fermentation and loaded into temperature-sensitive Pluronic F127 hydrogel (F127) for controlled release. In vitro, VGC significantly promoted endothelial cell proliferation, migration and tube formation, while temporally modulated macrophage polarization from the M1 to M2 phenotype to improve the immune microenvironment. In a rat cranial defect model, VGC-loaded hydrogel (F-VGC) accelerated bone regeneration, increasing bone volume (**P < 0.01, vs F-VTN; ***P < 0.01, vs F127) and collagen I deposition (*P < 0.05, vs F127). In mouse full-thickness skin wounds, F-VGC significantly accelerated healing, achieving a 95.78 ± 0.65% closure rate by Day 10 (**P < 0.01, vs F-VTN/F127) through mechanisms involving early angiogenesis, collagen remodeling and re-epithelialization. This study provides a protein-based strategy for synergistically promoting vascularization and immune modulation, offering a new paradigm for functional biomaterial design.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42560011 is a review article
Emerging evidence highlights the oncogenic role of the Dishevelled, Egl-10, and Pleckstrin domains containing 1 (DEPDC1) gene in lung cancer progression, making it an attractive therapeutic target. In this study, we investigated the anti-cancer potential of Delafloxacin, a fluoroquinolone antibiotic, in DEPDC1-overexpressing non-small cell lung cancer, NCI-H1299 cells. In silico docking of 1399 FDA-approved compounds using AutoDock Vina confirmed the strong binding affinity of Delafloxacin to the DEPDC1 active site (binding energy -7.1 kcal/mol). Delafloxacin treatment resulted in dose-dependent suppression of cell proliferation, with an IC50 of approximately 30 μg/mL. RT-qPCR revealed significant downregulation of DEPDC1 and several key regulators of proliferation (RAS, EGFR), mitotic progression (Cyclin-dependent kinase 1 (CDK1), CCNB2, KIF2C), and survival (BIRC5). Cell cycle analysis demonstrated G2/M phase accumulation upon Delafloxacin treatment, consistent with transcriptional repression of CDK1 and CCNB2. In vivo, Delafloxacin administration (15 mg/kg) significantly reduced tumor growth in a xenograft mouse model without overt toxicity. While these findings identify Delafloxacin as a candidate for repurposing in lung cancer, the observed downregulation of DEPDC1 represents a correlative finding rather than validated direct targeting. This study provides a rationale for further investigation of Delafloxacin in DEPDC1-associated malignancies.© 2026 The Author(s). Smart Molecules published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Dalian University of Technology.
Myocardial ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury is a complex condition characterized by oxidative stress, inflammation, and mitochondrial dysfunction. Ferroptosis, an iron-dependent form of regulated cell death, plays a critical role in cardiomyocyte damage during I/R. Inhibiting ferroptosis has been shown to reduce myocardial injury and improve cardiac function, making it a promising therapeutic target for enhancing clinical outcomes. An in vivo I/R model was established, and infarct size was assessed using triphenyltetrazolium chloride (TTC) staining. Histological changes were analyzed using hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining, Masson, immunohistochemistry (IHC), and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) assays. Cellular experiments included analyses of reactive oxygen species (ROS), lipid peroxidation, and iron content using specific fluorescent probes, as well as enzymatic markers measured with commercial assay kits. Cell viability and senescence were evaluated using the Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) assay and senescence-associated β-galactosidase (SA-β-gal) staining, respectively. Mitochondrial ultrastructure was examined using transmission electron microscopy (TEM), while molecular mechanisms, including DNA methylation, were investigated using methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction (MSP). Interactions among pleckstrin homology-like domain family A member 3 (PHLDA3), DNA (cytosine-5)-methyltransferase 3 A (DNMT3a), and polypyrimidine tract binding protein 1 (PTBP1) were evaluated using chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and RNA pull-down assays. Silencing of PHLDA3 demonstrated protective effects against I/R injury by attenuating cardiomyocyte ferroptosis and cardiac microvascular endothelial cells (CMECs) senescence under hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R) conditions in vitro and I/R injury in vivo. Mechanistically, downregulated DNMT3a was responsible for PHLDA3 hypomethylation. Furthermore, PTBP1 was identified as an upstream RNA-binding protein that destabilized DNMT3a mRNA during H/R injury, indirectly enhancing PHLDA3 expression. Our findings suggest that PTBP1-mediated DNMT3a downregulation contributes to PHLDA3 hypomethylation, which may promote cardiomyocyte ferroptosis and subsequent microvascular endothelial cell senescence during I/R injury.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
NLRP3 inflammasome plays a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of intervertebral disc (IVD) degeneration (IDD). This study aimed to identify NLRP3 inflammasome-related biomarkers in IDD and analyze their functions.First, the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) (IDD vs. control) in GSE124272 were detected. The NLRP3 inflammasome-related genes (NIRGs) scores for all samples were calculated using single-sample gene set enrichment analysis (ssGSEA). Subsequently, the key module with the strongest correlation with NIRGs scores was selected using weighted gene coexpression network analysis (WGCNA). Biomarkers were defined as the DEGs and genes showing consistent expression trends across both the GSE124272 and GSE150408 datasets. Function enrichment and immune infiltration were analyzed. The abundance of the key biomarkers was validated by real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR). To explore the effect of core targets on IDD by constructing IDD in vitro model.About 1608 intersection genes were derived from overlapping the above 2123 DEGs and 10695 key module genes. Subsequently, the top 10 genes were identified. Based on gene expression analysis, disheveled, EGL-10, and pleckstrin domain-containing 1 (DEPDC1), and Opa interacting protein 5 (OIP5) were selected as biomarkers. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that these biomarkers were primarily enriched in cytosolic ribosomes and DNA replication. Immune infiltration analysis identified 13 differential immune cells. Endothelial cells were inversely correlated with DEPDC1, whereas conventional dendritic cells (CDC) demonstrated a pronounced positive relationship with OIP5. RT-qPCR results confirmed that the expression of OIP5 and DEPDC1 in IDD patients was downregulated by more than 50% (p < 0.05). Cell experiments showed that up-regulation of OIP5 led to a 2-fold reduction in cell proliferation (p < 0.001) and a three-fold increase in apoptosis in nucleus pulposus (NP) cells derived from IDD patients (p < 0.001).Taken together, OIP5 has been identified as a peripheral blood biomarker linked to the NLRP3 inflammasome and may be involved in the pathogenesis of IDD.Copyright © 2026 Yongliang Fu et al. Mediators of Inflammation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42410249 is a review article
The emphysematous phenotype is an important phenotype in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), with substantial morbidity and mortality. The mechanisms underpinning the role of alveolar type II (AT2) cells in alveolar repair within this phenotype remain poorly understood. This study aimed to elucidate the role of PHLDA1, a potential stemness regulator in AT2 cells, on emphysema development. Utilizing mice model, we performed a targeted knockdown of PHLDA1 in AT2 cells and subsequently exposed these mice to tobacco smoke to assess the resultant severity of emphysema and related alveolar damage. We manipulated PHLDA1 expression in AT2 cells line or primary mouse AT2 cells to examine its influence on AT2 stemness-related processes- differentiation, proliferation, and wound closure ability. The specific pathway of PHLDA1 mediated in AT2 cells, as well as its interaction with the GLI1 protein, was further investigated. Mice with reduced PHLDA1 expression developed the emphysema independent of smoking exposure. PHLDA1 knockdown in AT2 cells attenuated their proliferation via the Hedgehog pathway, impairing wound closure ability in the emphysematous phenotype. We also discovered a binding relationship between PHLDA1 and GLI1, where PHLDA1 modulates the nuclear translocation of GLI1, thus regulating the Hedgehog pathway and influencing the stemness and proliferation of AT2 cells. Our study suggests that PHLDA1 is a critical factor in the proliferation process of AT2 cells via modulation of GLI1 nuclear translocation. This regulation is essential to the pathogenesis of the emphysematous phenotype in COPD, signifying potential therapeutic targets for intervention.© 2026. The Author(s).
Background: Prostate cancer (PCa) responds poorly to immunotherapy. We investigated the myeloid checkpoint TIM3 (HAVCR2) to define its lineage localization and regulatory logic in the PCa microenvironment. Methods: We integrated stage-resolved public single-cell RNA-seq datasets spanning primary PCa, metastatic hormone-sensitive PCa, and castration-resistant PCa. Myeloid compartments were analyzed via differential expression, regulon inference, and ligand-receptor modeling. Clinical relevance was evaluated in the Cancer Genome Atlas prostate adenocarcinoma (TCGA-PRAD) cohort and independent cohorts using a myeloid TIM3 signature. Mechanistic validation was achieved through PR domain zinc finger protein 1 (PRDM1) chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by Chromatin Immunoprecipitation (ChIP)-qPCR (ChIP-qPCR), TIM3-promoter luciferase assays, and functional perturbation of the galectin 9 (LGALS9)-TIM3 signaling pathway in macrophages differentiated. Results: TIM3 expression was predominantly confined to monocytes/macrophages, indicating TIM3 as a microenvironmental checkpoint in PCa. TIM3_high macrophages formed a Secreted Phosphoprotein 1 (SPP1)-enriched tumor-associated macrophage (TAM) state coupled to chemokine programs and extracellular matrix remodeling. Regulon profiling nominated PR domain zinc finger protein 1 (PRDM1) as an upstream driver; PRDM1 correlated with TIM3. Communication inference further highlighted an LGALS9-TIM3 axis and a C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 4/integrin subunit beta 1 (CXCR4/ITGB1)-associated permissive niche. Recombinant LGALS9 induced TIM3-linked M2-like macrophages polarization and increased CXCR4/ITGB1, which was attenuated by TIM3 blockade. Conclusions: Our results delineate a PRDM1-licensed TIM3_high macrophage program sustained by an LGALS9-TIM3 reinforcement loop and coupled to immunosuppressive and remodeling-associated phenotypes. Targeting TIM3 in the myeloid compartment, alone or in rational combinations, may represent a feasible strategy to reprogram tumor-associated macrophage states in PCa.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Tech Science Press.
Trypanosoma cruzi , the etiologic agent of Chagas disease, alternates between replicative epimastigotes and amastigotes and non-dividing, mammal-infective metacyclic and bloodstream trypomastigotes. Protein phosphorylation is a major regulatory mechanism in trypanosomatids, whose kinomes reveal an expanded family of NIMA-related kinases (NEKs). Here, we investigated the role of T. cruzi RDK2 (Repressor of Differentiation Kinase 2), a conserved NEK that carries a C-terminal pleckstrin homology (PH) domain. Endogenous gene tagging showed that TcRDK2 is expressed in all major life-cycle stages and displays a cytoplasmic distribution. CRISPR/Cas9-mediated knockout of TcRDK2 did not markedly alter epimastigote growth in rich medium but caused a significant accumulation of cells with abnormal nuclear/kinetoplast configurations, consistent with defects in kinetoplast segregation and cytokinesis; TcRDK2 -null parasites also showed reduced in vitro metacyclogenesis and failed to establish efficient infections in human fibroblasts. To probe gain-of-function effects, we generated tetracycline-inducible overexpression lines for full-length TcRDK2 (RDK2 WT ), a PH-deleted variant (RDK2 ΔPH ), and a catalytic-dead mutant (RDK2 K70A ). Overexpression of RDK2 WT or RDK2 ΔPH decreased epimastigote growth, enhanced metacyclogenesis, and strongly impaired host-cell invasion and intracellular amastigote proliferation, with more pronounced phenotypes for RDK2 ΔPH , suggesting that the PH domain normally restrains TcRDK2 activity in vivo. Phosphoproteomic profiling of RDK2 WT -overexpressing epimastigotes identified candidate TcRDK2 substrates and pathways, including translation initiation and cytoskeletal regulation. Together, these data identify TcRDK2 as a NEK kinase that coordinates kinetoplast replication/segregation, metacyclogenesis, and host-cell infection in T. cruzi and support TcRDK2 as a promising, kinetoplastid-specific therapeutic target for Chagas disease.Chagas disease, caused by the parasite Trypanosoma cruzi , remains a major health problem with limited treatment options. To persist in both insect vectors and mammalian hosts, the parasite must precisely coordinate cell division, differentiation into infectious forms, and survival inside host cells. Protein kinases are central regulators of these processes and attractive drug targets, yet many remain poorly understood in T. cruzi . In this study, we investigate RDK2, a member of the NIMA-related kinase family. Using gene knockout, inducible overexpression, and global analysis of phosphorylated proteins, we show that RDK2 is required for accurate segregation of mitochondrial DNA, efficient formation of infective insect-stage forms, and successful infection and replication in human cells. These findings identify RDK2 as a key regulator that links parasite cell division to infectivity and highlight it as a promising, parasite-specific candidate for future drug development against Chagas disease.
Cervical cancer is the fourth most common cancer among women worldwide and is often diagnosed at advanced stages, highlighting the need for effective systemic therapies, including those targeting key cancer-related pathways. Fibroblast growth factor (FGF) signalling plays a critical role in cell biology, activating FGF receptors (FGFRs) to regulate proliferation, migration and apoptosis. Aberrant activation of the pathway contributes to tumour progression in many cancers, including cervical cancer. FGFR inhibitors (FGFRi) have shown clinical promise but are limited by emergence of therapeutic resistance. Here, we describe mechanisms underpinning FGFRi resistance in three human cervical cancer cell lines (CaSki, HeLa, and SiHa). Transcriptomic analysis identified several genes differentially expressed between parental and resistant lines, including downregulation of Pleckstrin Homology Like Domain Family A Member 1 (PHLDA1) and upregulation of Phospholipase C beta 4 (PLCB4), changes that associate with a metastatic phenotype. Protein interaction network analysis revealed integrin α2 (ITGA2) as a putative central node. Increased cytoplasmic localisation of ITGA2 and concomitant loss at cell-cell contacts, alongside focal adhesion kinase (FAK) activation was observed in PD173074 resistant cells. Moreover, resistant cell lines exhibited elevated S6 ribosomal protein (p-S6) phosphorylation, which persisted despite inhibition of FGFR, FAK or mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1). Collectively, these findings suggest that FGFR inhibitor resistance in cervical cancer is associated with ITGA2-FAK signalling and AKT-independent mTOR activation, offering potential for overcoming therapeutic resistance via combinatorial treatment strategies.Copyright © 2026 Bou Antoun, Grose, Walker, Modjtahedi and Chioni.
Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is a myeloproliferative disorder driven by the fusion protein p210 BCR-ABL. In addition to activating canonical cytosolic signaling pathways, p210 BCR-ABL has been shown to translocate to the mitochondria upon mitochondrial damage through the interaction between its pleckstrin homology domain and cardiolipin, a mitochondria-specific phospholipid. We recently demonstrated that a fraction of p210 BCR-ABL localizes to the mitochondria in CML cells and promotes cell survival through mitochondria-associated signaling. However, whether mitochondria translocation of p210 BCR-ABL affects the major downstream signaling pathways activated by p210 BCR-ABL remains unclear. Here, we investigated the effects of mitochondrial translocation of p210-BCR-ABL on the JAK2/STAT5-, PI3K/AKT-, and RAS/MAPK-pathways using HEK293T cells expressing p210 BCR-ABL. Carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone (CCCP), which induces mitochondrial damage and subsequent mitochondrial translocation of p210 BCR-ABL, markedly reduced ERK activation, whereas STAT5 and AKT activation were largely unaffected. Consistently, phosphorylation of SHC1, an adaptor protein directly phosphorylated by p210 BCR-ABL and required to ERK activation, was also suppressed by CCCP treatment. In contrast, CCCP did not affect EGF-induced ERK activation, indicating that the observed effect was specific for p210 BCR-ABL signaling. Moreover, N-acetylcysteine inhibited CCCP-induced reactive oxygen species production, prevented mitochondrial translocation of p210 BCR-ABL, and fully restored ERK-activation. These findings suggest that intercellular relocation of p210 BCR-ABL dynamically rewires downstream signaling networks, potentially optimizing the signaling balance required for CML cell survival and proliferation.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
While the pro-inflammatory M4 macrophage phenotype contributes to cardiovascular pathogenesis, its specific involvement in chronic post-myocardial infarction (MI) remodeling and responsiveness to different exercise modalities remain unexplored. We hypothesized that high-intensity interval training (HIIT) confers enhanced cardioprotection compared to moderate-intensity continuous training (MICT) by mitigating M4 macrophage polarization.A murine MI model was randomized to 4-week HIIT, MICT, or sedentary groups. Cardiac function, structural remodeling, and macrophage phenotypes were evaluated, followed by transcriptomic profiling of the myocardium. For clinical translation, plasma samples from a human coronary artery disease (CAD) cohort (with/without prior MI) were analyzed. Causality was investigated in vitro using PF4-stimulated human macrophages with targeted genetic knockdown, co-cultured with AC16 ventricular cardiomyocytes.Both exercise modalities improved functional capacity and attenuated adverse remodeling post-MI, with HIIT demonstrating enhanced efficacy over MICT. HIIT significantly attenuated MI-induced M4 macrophage polarization, evidenced by diminished expression of MMP7, S100A8, and downstream pro-inflammatory cytokines. Additionally, plasma S100A8 levels were significantly elevated in post-MI patients. Transcriptomic profiling identified integrin subunit alpha M (Itgam) as a critical upstream target; while significantly upregulated post-MI, its expression was effectively suppressed by HIIT. In vitro, targeted ITGAM knockdown effectively suppressed PF4-induced M4 polarization and mitigated macrophage-mediated cardiomyocyte apoptosis.Compared to MICT, HIIT demonstrates superior efficacy in attenuating post-MI adverse remodeling, accompanied by significant suppression of pro-inflammatory M4 macrophage polarization. In vitro validations link this protective phenotype to ITGAM downregulation. These findings inform post-MI exercise regimens and highlight potential molecular targets for developing exercise mimetics.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
MicroRNAs have been widely demonstrated to participate in the pathogenesis of cerebrovascular diseases. In this study, an in vitro cellular oxygen-glucose deprivation/reoxygenation (OGD/R) model was established in mouse BV2 microglial cells, and differentially expressed microRNAs (DEMs) were screened by small RNA sequencing. The significant downregulation of miR-714 during OGD/R process was confirmed and its effects was verified by CCK-8 and apoptosis assays. MSC-derived exosomes (MSC-exo) were used to transport miR-714, and the mRNA expression level and cellular uptake of miR-714 were detected by qRT-PCR and fluorescence microscopy, respectively. The effects of MSC-exo-miR-714 on the proliferation and apoptosis of OGD/R BV2 cells were evaluated by CCK-8, Annexin V-FITC/PI double staining and TUNEL assays. In addition, bioinformatics analysis was performed to predict the target genes of miR-714. qRT-PCR and Western blotting were used to verify the regulatory effects of MSC-exo-miR-714 on ITGAM (integrin subunit alpha M) at mRNA and protein levels. The potential anti-inflammatory mechanism was further explored using gene enrichment analysis and Western blotting. The results showed that MSC-exo-miR-714 could significantly promote proliferation, inhibit apoptosis, and reduce protein expression of IL-6, IL-1β, TNF-α, NF-κB, and p-NF-κB in OGD/R-injured BV2 cells by directly targeting ITGAM. In conclusion, miR-714 is significantly down-regulated under in vitro OGD/R injury and serves as a key regulator in BV2 microglial injury. MSC-exo-miR-714 protects glial cells against OGD/R damage in vitro by directly targeting ITGAM and inhibiting inflammatory signaling. These findings are limited to the in vitro setting, and further in vivo validation is required.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42252654 is a review article
A strong correlation has been observed between diabetes mellitus (DM) with the pathogenesis of osteoarthritis (OA). This study aimed to elucidate the cellular and molecular mechanisms by which DM exacerbates OA, through multiomics analysis of synovium and cartilage from OA patients with type 2 DM (T2DMOA).Single-cell RNA sequencing, bulk RNA sequencing, and metabolome profiling were performed on knee cartilage and synovium from 21 patients with OA or T2DMOA to investigate the differences in transcriptional landscape, intercellular signalling networks, transcription factor regulatory patterns, and alterations in metabolic pathways.Single-cell profiling of synovium-cartilage tissues revealed distinct pathological alterations in T2DMOA patients compared to non-diabetic OA controls. In the T2DMOA synovium, we observed significantly enhanced differentiation of sublining fibroblasts into lining fibroblasts, along with enriched pathways governing energy metabolism, vasculogenesis, and cell proliferation. For cell-cell communication between cartilage and synovium, hepatocyte growth factor (HGF)-mesenchymal-epithelial transition factor (MET), fibroblast growth factors (FGF) 10-FGF receptor 1 (FGFR1), and nicotinamide phosphoribosyl transferase (NAMPT)-(integrin subunit alpha 5 (ITGA5) + integrin subunit beta 1 (ITGB1)) from synoviocytes to chondrocytes, as well as angiopoietin-like protein 2 (ANGPTL2)-toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) and ANGPTL2-(ITGA5 + IGTB1) from chondrocytes to synoviocytes, showed a notable increase in T2DMOA patients. Conversely, T2DMOA cartilage exhibited a pronounced suppression of metabolic activity, particularly in amino acid transport and glycan biosynthesis. Additionally, transcription factors of synoviocytes and chondrocytes were clustered into five and four major modules, respectively, with various functions.Our findings define a diabetes-specific OA phenotype, characterized by aberrant synovial fibroblast activation, dysregulated synovium-cartilage crosstalk, and impaired cartilage metabolism. This integrated view establishes T2DMOA as a unique metabolic-subtype of OA, driven by disrupted intercellular communication and metabolic reprogramming.© 2026 Wen et al.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) constitutes a formidable global health challenge. Lenvatinib, a multi-targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI), has gradually become a cornerstone therapeutic agent for advanced HCC; however, the emergence of drug resistance severely compromises its clinical efficacy and remains a major obstacle to improving patient outcomes. In this study, we identified key genes associated with lenvatinib resistance, among which regulator of nuclear pre-mRNA domain-containing protein 1A (RPRD1A) emerged as a prominent candidate. Functional assays demonstrated that RPRD1A overexpression significantly reduces the sensitivity of HCC to lenvatinib, whereas its knockdown restores drug responsiveness. Mechanistically, RPRD1A competes with RNA polymerase II-associated protein 2 (RPAP2) for binding to RNA polymerase II (RNA Pol II), thereby derepressing integrin subunit alpha 5 (ITGA5) transcription via a c-JUN-dependent pathway. Upregulated ITGA5 subsequently activates focal adhesion kinase (FAK) signaling, which critically drives lenvatinib resistance. Notably, combined treatment with lenvatinib and either the ITGA5 inhibitor volociximab or the FAK inhibitor defactinib effectively reversed lenvatinib resistance in preclinical models. Furthermore, clinical analyses revealed that elevated expression of RPRD1A and ITGA5 correlates with poor response to lenvatinib in HCC patients, reinforcing their potential as predictive biomarkers for therapeutic resistance. Collectively, our results demonstrate that co-targeting the RPRD1A-ITGA5-FAK signaling axis in combination with lenvatinib represents a promising strategy to improve therapeutic efficacy in HCC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42146949 is a review article
Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a leading cause of disability worldwide, and currently available antidepressants remain limited by delayed onset of action, incomplete response, and adverse effects. Ketamine is a rapid-acting antidepressant, whereas xanomeline, an M1/M4 muscarinic receptor agonist, may represent a mechanistically distinct non-monoaminergic strategy. However, the molecular basis by which xanomeline may influence depression-related pathways, and its relationship to ketamine, remain unclear. We used network pharmacology and molecular docking to compare the shared and distinct molecular mechanisms of xanomeline and ketamine in MDD. Potential drug targets were collected from public databases and intersected with MDD-related targets. Protein-protein interaction analysis was performed to identify hub genes, followed by Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment analyses. Drug-pathway-target-disease networks were constructed, and shared core targets were further evaluated by molecular docking. We identified 368 overlapping targets for xanomeline-MDD and 714 for ketamine-MDD. Three KEGG pathways were shared between the two networks: EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor resistance, Ras signaling, and Rap1 signaling. EGFR, insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (IGF1R), and SRC proto-oncogene, non-receptor tyrosine kinase, emerged as common core targets. Xanomeline was more strongly associated with receptor tyrosine kinase and PI3K/AKT-related signaling, whereas ketamine was more strongly linked to synaptic transmission, NMDA receptor-related functions, and glutamatergic signaling. Molecular docking supported structurally plausible binding of both drugs to EGFR, IGF1R, and SRC. These findings suggest partial convergence on downstream plasticity-related signaling nodes despite distinct upstream mechanisms and warrant further experimental investigation. However, the results should be interpreted as hypothesis-generating rather than as evidence of shared functional target engagement.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Epigenetic modifications, especially DNA methylation, play an increasingly important role in oral cancer. However, their specific contributions to the progression of oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) remain unclear. The present study used the Shiny Methylation Analysis Resource Tool (SMART) database (https://smart.embl.de/smart/change_mode.cgi) to identify methylation‑driven genes associated with OSCC. Among the identified candidates, integrin subunit α4 (ITGA4) exhibited significantly elevated methylation levels in head and neck cancers. A methylation‑specific PCR assay showed that ITGA4 is highly methylated in OSCC cells compared with normal immortalized human normal oral keratinocyte (iNOK) cells. Additionally, the mRNA expression levels of ITGA4 were significantly lower in OSCC cell lines compared with normal iNOK cells. ITGA4 overexpression markedly inhibited the cell proliferation, migratory ability and capacity of colony formation and induced apoptosis in FaDu and YD‑15 cells. In proteomic analysis, ITGA4 suppressed the expression of Sorting Nexin 5 (SNX5), a protein linked to cancer progression. siRNA‑mediated knockdown of SNX5 importantly inhibited cell proliferation, migration, and colony formation in FaDu and YD‑15 cells. Moreover, in a chick chorioallantoic membrane xenograft model, overexpression of ITGA4 or small interfering SNX5 significantly inhibited OSCC tumor growth and angiogenesis in vivo. Collectively, these findings demonstrated that ITGA4 acts as a tumor suppressor in OSCC by downregulating SNX5 and suggested that ITGA4 may serve as a valuable prognostic biomarker and potential therapeutic target for OSCC.
Oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) is a common malignant tumor in the oral and maxillofacial region with a poor prognosis, and its pathophysiology has not been fully elucidated. Although FKBP10 is overexpressed in multiple malignancies, its function and regulatory mechanism in OSCC remain largely unknown. Methods: OSCC and paired adjacent normal tissue samples were collected, and public datasets including The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) were integrated. Bioinformatics approaches including Weighted Gene Co-Expression Network Analysis (WGCNA), limma differential expression analysis and machine learning were applied to screen candidate target genes. Single-cell and spatial transcriptome analyses were performed to delineate the main expression domain of FKBP10 and its distribution in macrophages. Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), colony formation, Transwell, wound healing and flow cytometry assays were conducted to examine the effects of FKBP10 knockdown on the biological behaviors of SCC-9 cells. Western blot and Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) were adopted to explore the potential molecular mechanism. Result: Bioinformatics research identified FKBP10 as a significant target gene for OSCC. FKBP10 is predominantly enriched in fibroblasts and significantly upregulated in OSCC tissues. It has a strong positive correlation with M2-type macrophage infiltration and is linked to a negative outcome for patients. FKBP10 knockdown can cause cell apoptosis, stop the cell cycle at the G0/G1 phase, and prevent SCC-9 cells from proliferating, migrating, and invading. Meanwhile, knockdown of FKBP10 downregulated the protein levels of Periostin (POSTN), Integrin Subunit Beta 5 (ITGB5) and key WNT signaling molecules. Conclusion༚FKBP10 may influence the recruitment of M2-type macrophages by regulating the ECM/integrin adhesion signal and the WNT pathway, thereby changing the tumor immune milieu and encouraging the occurrence and progression of OSCC. It is projected to become a promising biomarker and target for prognostic evaluation and targeted therapy of OSCC.© 2026. The Author(s).
ITGB5 encodes integrin subunit beta 5 of that has been implicated in the eosinophilic asthma phenotype. However, the secretory profile of ITGB5 in induced sputum and its clinical significance in asthma remains poorly understood.This study aimed to measure ITGB5 levels in induced sputum supernatant from asthma patients and investigate its potential clinical implications.We enrolled 78 participants (18 healthy controls and 60 asthma patients) and quantified ITGB5 protein levels in induced sputum supernatant using ELISA. Correlations between ITGB5 and inflammatory markers, as well as airway obstruction parameters, were analyzed. Subsequently, we performed comparative analyses to evaluate variations in inflammatory cytokines between high- and low-ITGB5 expression subgroups.Induced sputum ITGB5 levels were significantly elevated in asthma patients and markedly increased following inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) treatment. ITGB5 levels showed positive correlations with Th2-associated cytokines (IL-4, IL-5, IL-13, IL-25, IL-33, and TSLP) and Th2 signature genes (SERPINB2, CLCA1, and POSTN). Notably, IL-5, FeNO, and POSTN were significantly higher in the high-ITGB5(n = 30) than the low- ITGB5 (n = 30) expression group. Furthermore, sputum ITGB5 levels were inversely associated with pulmonary function (FEV1% pred, FVC% pred, MEF% pred, MEF25% pred and MEF50% pred).Increased sputum ITGB5 in asthma was positively associated with inflammatory mediators and negatively correlated with pulmonary function, suggesting that ITGB5 upregulation may be involved in airway inflammation and obstruction in asthma pathogenesis.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic systemic autoimmune disease characterized by persistent synovial inflammation and progressive joint destruction. Numerous clinical studies have revealed that exercise is extremely beneficial for the outcome of RA. However, the underlying mechanism remains poorly understood. In the present study, we investigated the therapeutic efficacy of irisin, an exercise hormone, on K/BxN serum and collagen-induced arthritis (CIA), two well established mouse models for RA research. Mechanistically, irisin interacted with ITGAV (integrin subunit alpha V) and ITGB5 (integrin subunit beta 5) to activate mitophagy and remove leaked mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and reactive oxygen species (ROS), which suppressed the activation of NLRP3 (NLR family pyrin domain containing 3) inflammasome and then hindered the pathological process of experimental arthritis. Notably, the beneficial effects of irisin on the treatment of experimental arthritis were significantly abolished in mice with atg5 (autophagy related 5) conditional knockout in myeloid cells (atg5fl/flLyz2). Our study elucidated the underlying mechanism through which exercise alleviated experimental arthritis and offered a feasible therapeutic strategy for RA.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine Ac-TUBA: acetylated TUBA; ACP5: acid phosphatase 5, tartrate resistant; AIM2: absent in melanoma 2; ANOVA: analysis of variance; ATP: adenosine triphosphate; BAF: bafilomycin A1; BV:TV: bone volume per total volume; BMD: bone mineral density; BMDMs: bone marrow-derived macrophages; CASP1: caspase 1; CTSB: cathepsin B; CIA: collagen-indcued arthritis; DNM1L: dynamin 1 like; CYCS: cytochrome c, somatic; EtBr: ethidium bromide; FNDC5: fibronectin type III domain containing 5; FL-GSDMD: GSDMD full length; GSDMD: gasdermin D; HE: hematoxylin and eosin; iBMDMs: immortalized bone marrow-derived macrophages; IL1B: interleukin 1 beta; IL6: interleukin 6; IL18: interleukin 18; LDH: lactate dehydrogenase; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; MAP1LC3: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3; MSU: monosodium urate; mtROS: mitochondrial reactive oxygen species; mtDNA: mitochondrial DNA; NLRC4: NLR family CARD domain containing 4; NLRP1: NLR family pyrin domain containing 1; NLRP3: NLR family pyrin domain containing 3; NT-GSDMD: GSDMD N-terminal fragment; NAC: N-acetylcysteine; ox-mtDNA: oxidized mitochondrial DNA; PYCARD: PYD and CARD domain containing; PRKAA: protein kinase AMP-activated catalytic subunit alpha 1; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; RA: rheumatoid arthritis; ROS: reactive oxygen species; SD: standard deviation; SiO2: silicon dioxide; SQSTM1: sequestosome 1; Tb.Th: trabecular thickness; Tb.N: trabecular number; Tp.Sp: trabecular separation; TNF/TNF-α: tumor necrosis factor; TOMM20: translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20; TUBA: tubulin alpha; ULK1: unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1; WT: wild type.
Chronic pancreatitis (CP) is characterized by chronic pancreatic inflammation and progressive fibrosis. This study investigated the role of ubiquitin-specific peptidase 1 (USP1), a protein-stabilizing deubiquitinase, in CP. C57BL/6J mice were given 8-week repetitive intraperitoneal cerulein (50 µg/kg) injections to establish the CP model. USP1 expression in CP mouse pancreatic tissues was 3-fold higher than in controls. Lentivirus-mediated Usp1 knockdown reduced pancreatic inflammatory cell infiltration, trypsin activity, and proinflammatory cytokine levels. Additionally, Usp1 knockdown inhibits collagen deposition and fibrosis of the pancreas. In vitro, USP1 was upregulated in activated pancreatic stellate cells (PSCs) induced by TGF-β1 (5 ng/mL). USP1 knockdown decreased the expressions of collagen type I alpha 1 chain (COL1A1), COL1A2, fibronectin, and α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA), suppressing PSC activation and extracellular matrix production. Immunoprecipitation-liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry (IP-LC/MS) and label-free proteomics identified integrin subunit beta 5 (ITGB5) as a potential target protein of USP1. USP1 promoted ITGB5 deubiquitination/stabilization, while USP1 knockdown reduced ITGB5 expression. Rescue experiments showed ITGB5 overexpression reversed the inhibitory effect of USP1 knockdown on PSC activation. Moreover, ITGB5 knockdown inhibited PSC activation via suppressing PI3K/AKT pathway. In conclusion, USP1 knockdown inhibits PSC activation by suppressing the ITGB5-PI3K-AKT axis, thereby alleviating the pathological progression of CP.
While cisplatin-based chemotherapy is pivotal for advanced bladder cancer, acquired resistance remains a major obstacle. This study investigates key molecular drivers of this resistance and potential reversal strategies.We established GC (Gemcitabine and Cisplatin)-resistant T24-R and UC3-R cell lines from T24 and UM-UC-3 (UC3) cells. Transcriptomic and proteomic analyses identified differentially expressed molecules. Apoptosis and cell viability were assessed by flow cytometry and CCK-8 (Cell Counting Kit-8) assays, while RT-qPCR (Reverse Transcription Quantitative Polymerase Chain Reaction) and Western blot analyzed gene and protein expression. Immunofluorescence evaluated FAK (Focal Adhesion Kinase) phosphorylation, and a xenograft mouse model validated the findings in vivo.Integrated transcriptomic and proteomic analysis identified FN1 (fibronectin) as a consistently upregulated top candidate in resistant cells (T24-R transcript log2FC = 2.8, protein log2FC = 0.9; UC3-R transcript log2FC = 3.7; all p < 0.001). Knockdown of FN1 reduced chemoresistance (Resistance Index: 5.2 in T24-R and 2.0 in UC3-R cells, p < 0.001) and enhanced apoptosis (approximately 4.5-fold in T24-R and 7.5-fold in UC3-R, p < 0.001). ITGB4 (Integrin Subunit Beta 4) was upregulated in resistant cells (transcript log2FC: 4.2 in T24-R and 3.03 in UC3-R; protein log2FC: 0.67 in T24-R; all p < 0.01). Critically, ITGB4 knockdown abolished the chemoresistance promoted by exogenous FN1, which was associated with increased FAK (Y397) phosphorylation.Our results demonstrate that the FN1-ITGB4 axis drives chemoresistance in bladder cancer via FAK signaling. Targeting this axis represents a promising strategy to overcome chemoresistance.© 2026 The Authors.
Glioblastoma is a prevalent malignant brain tumor, and the actions of the long non-coding RNA HOXA10-AS in its invasion and migration remain unclear. Here, the function of HOXA10-AS in glioblastoma cell invasion and migration and associated mechanisms were investigated.HOXA10-AS was knocked down in glioblastoma cells, and Transwell and wound healing assays were conducted to elucidate its impacts on cell invasion and migration. Western blotting and quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) assessed HOXA10-AS's impact on the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Microarray analysis identified differentially expressed genes, complemented by bioinformatics approaches to explore potential molecular participants and pathways. Rescue experiments validated our findings.HOXA10-AS knockdown significantly inhibits glioblastoma cell migration, invasion, and the EMT process. Specifically, HOXA10-AS siRNA transfection significantly reduced the migratory capacity of A172 cells by 50.5% and U251 cells by 61.4%, as well as their invasive capacities by 33.8% and 58.5%, respectively (all p < 0.05). HOXA10-AS acts as an miR-99a-3p sponge, and pathway analysis identified processes linked to tumorigenesis and metastasis, along with nine hub genes. HOXA10-AS upregulates the expression of integrin subunit beta 5 (ITGB5) through a competing endogenous RNA mechanism. The reduced tumorigenic behavior of glioblastoma cells due to HOXA10-AS knockdown can be rescued by ITGB5 overexpression or miR-99a-3p inhibitor.These results indicate that HOXA10-AS promotes tumorigenic behavior in glioblastoma cells by regulating the EMT-like process and functioning as an miR-99a-3p sponge to modulate ITGB5 levels, providing insights into glioblastoma development and potential therapeutic targets.© 2025 The Authors.
Recurrent/metastatic head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (R/M-HNSCC) is a severe, frequently lethal condition. Oncogene addiction to epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is a hallmark of HNSCC, but the clinical efficacy of EGFR-targeted therapies remains low. Understanding molecular networks governing EGFR-driven progression is paramount to the exploration of (co)-treatment targets and predictive markers.We performed function-based mapping of differentially expressed genes in EGFR-mediated local invasion (fDEGs) using photoconvertible tracers and RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) in a cellular 3D-model.Upon alignment with public single-cell RNA-seq (scRNA-seq) datasets and HNSCC-specific regulons, a gene regulatory network of local invasion (invGRN) was inferred from gene expression data, which was overrepresented in budding tumors. InvGRN comprises the central hubs inhibin subunit beta alpha (INHBA) and snail family transcriptional repressor 2 (SNAI2), and druggable fDEGs integrin subunit beta 4 (ITGB4), laminin 5 (LAMB3/LAMC2), and sphingosine kinase 1 (SPHK1). Blockade of INHBA repressed local invasion and was reverted by activin A, laminin 5, and sphingosine-1-phosphate, demonstrating a functional interconnectivity of the invGRN. Epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) of malignant cells and the invGRN are induced by newly defined EGFR-activity subtypes with prognostic value that are promoted by amphiregulin (AREG) and epiregulin (EREG). Importantly, co-inhibition of SPHK1 showed synthetic effects on Cetuximab-mediated invasion blockade and high expression of selected fDEGs was associated with response to Cetuximab in patient-derived xenotransplantation (PDX) and R/M-HNSCC patients.We describe an actionable network of EGFR-mediated local invasion and define druggable effectors with predictive potential regarding the response of R/M-HNSCC to Cetuximab.© 2025. The Author(s).
Inspired by the scar-free wound healing in infants, an anti-scar strategy is proposed by accelerating wound healing using silicate bioactive materials. Bioglass/alginate composite hydrogels are applied, which significantly inhibit scar formation in rabbit ear scar models. The underlining mechanisms include stimulation of Integrin Subunit Alpha 2 expression in dermal fibroblasts to accelerate wound healing, and induction of apoptosis of hypertrophic scar fibroblasts by directly stimulating the N-Acylsphingosine Amidohydrolase 2 expression in hypertrophic scar fibroblasts, and indirectly upregulating the secretion of Cathepsin K in dermal fibroblasts. Considering specific functions of the bioactive silicate materials, two scar treatment regimes are tested. For severe scars, a regenerative intervention is applied by surgical removal of the scar followed by the treatment with bioactive hydrogels to reduce the formation of scars by activating dermal fibroblasts. For mild scars, the bioactive dressing is applied on the formed scar and reduces scar by inducing scar fibroblasts apoptosis.© 2024 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
The heterogeneous molecular subtypes of gliomas demonstrate varied responses to chemotherapy and distinct prognostic outcomes. Gliomas with Isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 (IDH1) mutation are associated with better outcomes and are more responsive to temozolomide (TMZ) compared to those without IDH1 mutation. IDH1-mutant gliomas elevate D-2-hydroxyglutarate (D-2HG) levels, with potential dual effects on tumor progression. Limited research has explored the potential anti-glioma effects of D-2HG in combination with TMZ. Clinical data from over 2500 glioma patients in our study confirms that those with IDH1 mutations exhibit enhanced responsiveness to TMZ chemotherapy and a significantly better prognosis compared to IDH1 wild-type patients. In subsequent cellular experiments, we found that the IDH1-mutant metabolite D-2HG suppresses Integrin subunit beta 4 (ITGB4) expression, and down-regulate the phosphorylation levels of PI3K and AKT, ultimately inhibiting cell proliferation while promoting apoptosis, thereby improving glioma prognosis. Additionally, we have demonstrated the synergistic effect of D-2HG and TMZ in anti-glioma therapy involved inhibiting the proliferation of glioma cells and promoting apoptosis. Finally, by integrating data from the CGGA and TCGA databases, it was validated that ITGB4 expression was lower in IDH1-mutant gliomas, and patients with lower ITGB4 expression were associated with better prognosis. These findings indicate that ITGB4 may be a promising therapeutic target for gliomas and D-2HG inhibits proliferation and sensitizes glioma to temozolomide via down-regulating ITGB4/PI3K/AKT. These findings drive theoretical innovation and research progress in glioma therapy.© 2024. The Author(s).
Reprogramming of the serine synthesis pathway (SSP) is intricately linked to the progression of epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC). CBR-5884, a selective small-molecule inhibitor targeting phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase (PHGDH), effectively impedes the de novo synthesis of serine within cancer cells. This study aimed to evaluate the inhibitory effect of CBR-5884 on EOC cells and delineate its specific mechanism, thereby proposing a novel therapeutic approach for treating EOC. The suppression of serine biosynthesis after CBR-5884 treatment was evaluated using RNA sequencing and a serine assay kit, and the results showed that CBR-5884 effectively downregulated serine biosynthesis in EOC cells, particularly those expressing high levels of PHGDH. In vitro studies revealed that CBR-5884 demonstrated significant antitumor effects and suppressed migration and invasion of EOC cells through down-regulation of the integrin subunit beta 4 (ITGB4)/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)/epithelial-mesenchymal transition signal axis. Additionally, CBR-5884 mitigated the stemness of EOC cells and heightened their sensitivity to chemotherapy. Moreover, in vivo studies revealed that CBR-5884 significantly delayed tumor growth, with histological analysis indicating the safety profile of CBR-5884. Finally, the patient-derived organoid (PDO) models were utilized to explore the preclinical efficacy of CBR-5884 against EOC cells, and the results unveiled that CBR-5884 impeded proliferation and downregulated the expression of ITGB4 in EOC PDO models. Our findings supports the anticancer properties of CBR-5884 in EOC cells exhibiting high PHGDH expression, manifesting through the suppression of proliferation, migration, and invasion, while enhancing chemotherapy sensitivity, suggesting that CBR-5884 holds promise as an efficacious strategy for the treatment of EOC.© 2024. The Author(s).
Stanniocalcin 1 (STC1) is an immune checkpoint in macrophages that promotes tumor immune evasion and resistance to immunotherapy. This study aims to elucidate the functional role and underlying regulatory mechanisms of STC1 in gastric cancer (GC) and its associated tumor microenvironment.GC cells were transfected with STC1-knockout (KO-STC1) and overexpression (OE-STC1) plasmids. To evaluate the effect of STC1 expression on the polarization of tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) into the M2 phenotype, KO-STC1 GC cells were cocultured with M0 macrophages. To understand whether STC1 modulates the malignant behaviors of GC cells through the promotion of TAM polarization into the M2 state and elucidate the regulatory mechanisms, Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK8), Transwell, Western blotting (WB), and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA) were performed.In patients with GC, the expression level of STC1 markedly increased (P <0.0001), which resulted in an unfavorable clinical prognosis. Dysregulated STC1 bound integrin subunit beta 6 (ITGB6) to modulate the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/protein kinase B (PI3K/AKT) pathway in vitro and in vivo, which influenced the malignant behavior of GC cells, including proliferation, migration, invasion, apoptosis, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). STC1 modulated the polarization of TAMs into the M2 state, which affected the proliferation, invasion, and EMT of GC cells. KO-STC1 GC cells cocultured with M0 macrophages inhibited the progression of GC through the inactivation of the Janus kinase 2/signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (JAK2/STAT3) pathway in TAMs, which suppressed M2 polarization and the secretion of interleukin-10 (IL-10).STC1 binds ITGB6 and modulates the progression of GC through the activation of the PI3K/AKT pathway, polarization of TAMs into the M2 state, and secretion of IL-10 via the JAK2/STAT3 pathway. This study may imply that STC1 has the potential to be a new target to suppress the development of GC.Copyright © 2026 The Chinese Medical Association, produced by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC. under the CC-BY-NC-ND license.
Pancreatic cancer (PC) is among the deadliest digestive malignancies, with over half of patients showing liver metastases at diagnosis. Understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying PC liver metastasis is crucial for improving patient prognosis and extending survival. This study aimed to elucidate the role of integrin subunit beta 6 (ITGB6), a downstream target of transforming growth factor-β (TGFβ) signaling, in PC progression and metastasis, particularly focusing on its involvement in liver metastasis.First, ITGB6 was identified as a key TGFβ-pathway gene linked to liver metastasis in PC, with its enrichment further confirmed by SMAD family member 4 ( SMAD4 )-based subgroup analysis. A total of 37 paired clinical PC and adjacent normal tissue samples were obtained from patients who underwent surgical resection at Peking Union Medical College Hospital, and immunohistochemistry (IHC) was performed to evaluate ITGB6 expression and its correlation with clinicopathological features. In vitro assays, including cell proliferation, apoptosis detection, and cell migration and invasion assays, were conducted to evaluate the role of ITGB6 in PC cell behavior. A SMAD4 wild-type (WT) PC cell line stably overexpressing ITGB6 was established, and its in vivo role was assessed using subcutaneous and liver metastasis xenograft models. To explore the transcriptional regulation of ITGB6 by TGFβ, chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (ChIP-qPCR) and dual-luciferase reporter assays were performed. The effect of ITGB6-expressing PC cells on hepatic stellate cell (HSC) activation was evaluated using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), Western blotting, and IHC. Finally, the therapeutic potential of targeting ITGB6 was preliminarily assessed using a monoclonal antibody intervention strategy.TGFβ upregulates ITGB6 expression through a SMAD4-dependent pathway. Elevated ITGB6 expression not only promotes the migration and invasion of PC cells but also activates HSCs, thereby establishing a fibrotic microenvironment favorable for metastatic colonization. In mouse models, administration of an ITGB6 monoclonal antibody significantly attenuated HSC activation and suppressed the formation of liver metastases. Therefore, ITGB6 serves as a key downstream effector of TGFβ-mediated metastasis and represents a promising therapeutic target for liver metastasis in PC.The TGFβ-ITGB6 positive feedback axis plays a critical role in liver metastasis of SMAD4 WT PC, highlighting ITGB6 as a potential therapeutic target, especially for patients with intact SMAD4 function.Copyright © 2025 The Chinese Medical Association, produced by Wolters Kluwer, Inc. under the CC-BY-NC-ND license.
Diabetic kidney disease (DKD), a prevalent complication of diabetes mellitus, is often associated with acute kidney injury (AKI). Thus, the development of preventive and therapeutic strategies is crucial for delaying the progression of AKI and DKD.The GSE183276 dataset, comprising the data of 20 healthy controls and 12 patients with AKI, was downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database to analyze the AKI group. For analyzing the DKD group, the GSE131822 dataset, comprising the data of 3 healthy controls and 3 patients with DKD, was downloaded from the GEO database. The common differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in renal tubular epithelial cells (TECs) were subjected to enrichment analyses. Next, a protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was constructed using the Search Tool for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes database to analyze gene-related regulatory networks. Finally, the AKI animal models and the DKD and AKI cell models were established, and the reliability of the identified genes was validated using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis.Functional analysis was performed with 40 common DEGs in TECs. Eight hub genes were identified using the PPI and gene-related networks. Finally, validation experiments with the in vivo animal model and the in vitro cellular model revealed the four common DEGs. Four DEGs that share molecular mechanisms in the pathogenesis of DKD and AKI were identified. In particular, the expression of Integrin Subunit Beta 6(ITGB6), a hub and commonly upregulated gene, was upregulated in the in vitro models.ITGB6 may serve as a biomarker for early AKI diagnosis in patients with DKD and as a target for early intervention therapies.
Pressure injury management requires reliable identification of critical colonisation due to lack of infection signs. Our research group previously proposed the mRNAs natriuretic peptide B (Nppb), integrin subunit beta 6 (Itgb6), copine 4 (Cpne4), echinoderm microtubule-associated protein like 5, and intersectin 1 as candidate markers in pooled exudates of critically colonised wounds. However, it is unclear whether mRNAs or proteins of the candidate genes would be suitable as biomarkers in fresh exudate. Therefore, this study aimed to evaluate the validity of the mRNAs and proteins as fresh exudate markers for critical colonisation. Three wound models of normal healing, critical colonisation, and infection were created in rats. Fresh swab-collected exudates were collected, and mRNA and protein expression levels were measured. In the fresh wound exudates, the detection frequency of Itgb6 tended to decrease in the critically colonised and infected wounds (P = .067), and those of Cpne4 and Nppb tended to be lower in the infected wounds than in the normal healing and critically colonised wounds (P = .006 and .067, respectively). In contrast, there was no difference in protein expression in the exudates. This study suggests that Itgb6 mRNA in fresh exudates is a promising biomarker for critical colonisation.© 2022 The Authors. International Wound Journal published by Medicalhelplines.com Inc (3M) and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The present study aimed to screen the key genes in pancreatic cancer and to explore the pathogenesis of pancreatic cancer. A total of three expression profiling datasets (GSE28735, GSE16515 and GSE15471) associated with pancreatic cancer were retrieved from the public gene chip database. The differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were screened by GEO2R and subjected to Gene Ontology (GO) and signaling pathway enrichment analysis. Furthermore, a protein interaction network was constructed. The GEPIA online database was used to screen for genes that affect the prognosis of pancreatic cancer. Finally, cell functional experiments were performed on the selected key genes. A total of 72 DEGs were identified, including 52 upregulated and 20 downregulated genes. Enrichment analysis revealed roles of the DEGs in endodermal cell differentiation, cell adhesion, extracellular matrix-receptor interaction and PI3K-Akt signaling pathway. In total, 10 key nodal genes were identified, including integrin subunit α 2 (ITGA2), ITGB6 and collagen α 1 chain 1. Through survival analysis, two genes with an impact on the prognosis of pancreatic cancer were identified, namely ITGA2 and ITGB6. Silencing of ITGB6 in a pancreatic cancer cell line significantly suppressed cell proliferation and induced cell cycle arrest at G2/M phase. The identified key genes and signaling pathways may help to deepen the understanding of the molecular mechanisms involved in pancreatic cancer and provide a theoretical basis to develop novel therapies.Copyright: © Ren et al.
Successful portoenterostomy (SPE) improves the short-term outcome of patients with biliary atresia (BA) by relieving cholestasis and extending survival with native liver. Despite SPE, hepatic fibrosis progresses in most patients, leading to cirrhosis and a deterioration of liver function. The goal of this study was to characterize the effects of SPE on the BA liver transcriptome. We used messenger RNA sequencing to analyze global gene-expression patterns in liver biopsies obtained at the time of portoenterostomy (n = 13) and 1 year after SPE (n = 8). Biopsies from pediatric (n = 2) and adult (n = 2) organ donors and other neonatal cholestatic conditions (n = 5) served as controls. SPE was accompanied by attenuation of inflammation and concomitant up-regulation of key extracellular matrix (ECM) genes. Highly overexpressed genes promoting biliary fibrosis and bile duct integrity, such as integrin subunit beta 6 and previously unreported laminin subunit alpha 3, emerged as candidates to control liver fibrosis after SPE. At a cellular level, the relative abundance of activated hepatic stellate cells and liver macrophages decreased following SPE, whereas portal fibroblasts (PFs) and cholangiocytes persisted. Conclusion: The attenuation of inflammation following SPE coincides with emergence of an ECM molecular fingerprint, a set of profibrotic molecules mechanistically connected to biliary fibrosis. The persistence of activated PFs and cholangiocytes after SPE suggests a central role for these cell types in the progression of biliary fibrosis.© 2021 The Authors. Hepatology Communications published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.
Recent evidence has demonstrated the crucial role of macrophage polarization in promoting non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) progression within the tumor microenvironment.This study investigated the possible regulatory mechanism of macrophage polarization during NSCLC development.The proportion of M1/M2 macrophages was examined by flow cytometry. The expression of macrophage markers and target molecules was detected by reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), western blotting, and immunohistochemical staining. Non-small cell lung cancer cells were treated with conditioned medium (CM) from THP-1 macrophages. Cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8), scratch, and transwell assays were used to assess NSCLC cell growth and metastasis. Gene promoter activity was evaluated by dual-luciferase reporter assay. A xenograft model was adopted to determine NSCLC growth in vivo.Histone-lysine N-methyltransferase 2D (KMT2D) and integrin subunit alpha L (ITGAL) were lowly expressed in NSCLC tissues and cells. The KMT2D overexpression facilitated the polarization of macrophages from M2 to M1 type, which repressed the growth, migration, and invasion of NSCLC cells. Mechanistically, KMT2D promoted the transcription and expression of ITGAL. Inhibition of ITGAL abrogated KMT2D overexpression-mediated M1 macrophage polarization and its anti-cancer effects on NSCLC.The KMT2D transcriptionally activated ITGAL to trigger M1 macrophage polarization, thereby delaying NSCLC progression. Our findings suggest KMT2D as a potential therapeutic target for NSCLC.Copyright © 2025, Wang et al.
Diabetic retinopathy (DR), one of the most common severe complications of diabetes, has become a leading cause of blindness among the working population without a fundamental treatment. Proliferative DR (PDR) is the advanced stage of DR. Recent studies have shown that inflammation is closely related to PDR, as it promotes leukocyte adhesion, breakdown of the blood-retinal barrier, and pathological neovascularization, but the key regulatory genes involved remained unclear. We aim to identify inflammation-related biomarkers in PDR.We downloaded and merged PDR-related datasets GSE102485, GSE94019, and GSE60436, comprising a total of 13 control samples and 37 samples from PDR patients, and conducted a joint analysis of inflammation-related genes (IRGs). Differential analysis, functional enrichment analysis, WGCNA and LASSO were used to identify key genes and their functions in the pathogenesis of PDR. Dataset GSE241239, which contains retinal sequencing data from mice, was used for external validation. Additionally, single-cell RNA analysis using GSE165784, which includes five human-derived PDR samples, was conducted to investigate the cellular expression of Fc Gamma Receptor IA (FCGR1A) and Integrin Subunit Alpha L (ITGAL). Finally, the expression of FCGR1A and ITGAL was validated in DR mouse models and high glucose-induced cell models.Nine key genes associated with the pathogenesis of PDR were identified. Further screening identified FCGR1A and ITGAL as potential therapeutic targets, with single-cell analysis showing their primary distribution in microglia. In vivo and in vitro experiments confirmed localization of FCGR1A and ITGAL in microglia and significant elevation within DR mouse models.Comprehensive analysis indicates, for the first time, that FCGR1A and ITGAL are key inflammation-related genes involved in the pathogenesis of PDR mediated by microglia. FCGR1A and ITGAL are promising therapeutic targets for PDR.© 2025 Yu et al.
Integrin subunit alpha L (ITGAL) is crucial for activating CD8+ T cells through magnesium-mediated immune synapse formation and specific cytotoxicity. ITGAL might exert an important function in the growth and transformation of cancer.Our study comprehensively analyzed ITGAL expression across various cancers, validated by Immunochemistry (IHC) in the laboratory. ITGAL showed prognostic significance in pan-cancer patients, correlated with clinical features, and associated with specific signaling pathways. We also observed a relationship between ITGAL and immune cell infiltration. In HNSCC, ITGAL demonstrated prognostic value and potential implications for immunotherapy response and novel drug targets.ITGAL expression linked to tumor prognosis across 27 cancers. Elevated ITGAL correlated with good prognosis in CESC, LUAD, SARC, HNSCC, and SKCM. ITGAL involved in immune regulation pathways and showed positive correlation with immune cell infiltration. ITGAL associated with CD8+ T cell infiltration. And high ITGAL expression in CD8+ T cells and NK cells. In HNSCC, ITGAL linked to favorable prognosis and sensitivity to immunotherapy. Predicted potential drugs for HNSCC.ITGAL is remarkably associated with CD8+T cells and crucial in the tumor immune microenvironment of pan-cancer. Furthermore, our findings may provide a targeted anti-tumor strategy for ITGAL by influencing the tumor immune microenvironment.Copyright © 2024 Lin, Yang, Huang, Li, Ding, Ye and Qiu.
Unlike sessile macrophages that occupy specialized tissue niches, non-classical monocytes (NCMs)-circulating phagocytes that patrol and cleanse the luminal surface of the vascular tree-are characterized by constant movement. Here, we examined the nature of the NCM's nurturing niche. Expression of the growth factor CSF1 on endothelial cells was required for survival of NCMs in the bloodstream. Lack of endothelial-derived CSF1 did not affect blood CSF1 concentration, suggesting that NCMs rely on scavenging CSF1 present on endothelial cells. Deletion of the transmembrane chemokine and adhesion factor CX3CL1 on endothelial cells impaired NCM survival. Mechanistically, endothelial-derived CX3CL1 and integrin subunit alpha L (ITGAL) facilitated the uptake of CSF1 by NCMs. CSF1 was produced by all tissular endothelial cells, and deletion of Csf1 in all endothelial cells except bone marrow sinusoids impaired NCM survival, arguing for a model where the full vascular tree acts as a niche for NCMs and where survival and patrolling function are connected.Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Integrin subunit alpha L (ITGAL) encodes an integrin component of LFA-1 and is a membrane receptor molecule widely expressed on leukocytes. It plays a key role in the interaction between white blood cells and other cells. There was a significant correlation between the expression of ITGAL and the tumor microenvironment in a number of cancers. However, experimental studies targeting ITGAL and immune cell infiltration in non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and the response to immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy are lacking.Data were obtained from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO), and Clinical Proteomic Tumor Analysis Consortium (CPTAC) databases to explore the relationship between ITGAL expression and prognosis, as well as the immune cell infiltration in patients with NSCLC. In addition, immunohistochemical staining for ITGAL and multiplex immunofluorescence (mIF) staining for ITGAL, CD20, CD68, CD4, and CD8 from tissue microarrays containing 118 tumor tissues and paired paracancerous tissues from patients with NSCLC were performed. The correlation between ITGAL expression and clinical factors, as well as the immunophenotypes of tumor-infiltrating immune cells, were also analyzed.In NSCLC tumor tissues, ITGAL was downregulated compared with matched paracancerous tissues, and low ITGAL expression was associated with a poor prognosis of NSCLC patients. Subsequently, immunohistochemistry results for tissue microarray showed that ITGAL expression was mainly elevated in tumor stroma and areas with highly infiltrated immune cells. ITGAL expression was higher in paracancerous tissues than tumor tissues. Furthermore, mIF results indicated that the patients with ITGAL-high expression tend had significantly higher CD8+ T cells, CD68+ macrophages, CD4+ T cells, and CD20+ B cells infiltration in their tumor tissues. Immunophenotypes were classified into three categories, that is deserted, excluded, and inflamed types, according to each kind of immune cell distribution in or around the cancer cell nest. MIF results showed that ITGAL expression level was correlated with the immunophenotypes. Furthermore, ITGAL expression was associated with the prognosis of NSCLC in patients with immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy and the patients with high ITGAL expression tends have better outcomes.ITGAL may be used as a biomarker for assessing the immune microenvironment in patients with NSCLC.Copyright © 2024 Zhang, Zhu, Li, Meng, Huang, Ding, Wang, Chen, Li, Liu and Chen.
Integrin subunit alpha L (ITGAL) was found aberrantly expressed in multiple cancer types, suggesting its essential role in tumorigenesis. Hence, we aimed to explore its definite role in acute myeloid leukemia and emphasize its associations with immunity. Here, we found ITGAL was highly expressed in AML patients and elevated expression was associated with poor prognosis. ITGAL was associated with age and cytogenetic risk classifications, but not relevant to AML driver gene mutations. Univariate and multivariate Cox regression analyses determined ITGAL as an independent prognostic factor. The nomogram integrating ITGAL and clinicopathologic variables was constructed to predict 1-, 3- and 5-year overall survival (OS). Functional analyses revealed that ITGAL was mainly responsible for the production and metabolic process of cytokine. As for immunity, ITGAL was positively associated with MDSCs including iDCs, and macrophages in the TCGA-LAML cohort. We also found that ITGAL was positively associated with most immune checkpoint genes and cytokines. In addition, we found that ITGAL knockdown caused substantial inhibition of cell growth and significant induction of early apoptosis in AML cells. The xenograft study indicated that ITGAL knockdown prolonged the survival of recipient mice. Overall, ITGAL is an independent prognostic factor and is closely related to the number of MDSCs and cytokine production.© 2022. The Author(s).
Nanoparticle-based delivery of therapeutics to the brain has had limited clinical impact due to challenges crossing the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Certain cells, such as monocytes, possess the ability to migrate across the BBB, making them attractive candidates for cell-based brain delivery strategies. In this work, we explore nanoparticle design parameters that impact both monocyte association and monocyte-mediated BBB transport. We use electrohydrodynamic jetting to prepare nanoparticles of varying sizes, compositions, and elasticity to address their impact on uptake by THP-1 monocytes and permeation across the BBB. An in vitro human BBB model is developed using human cerebral microvascular endothelial cells (hCMEC/D3) for the assessment of migration. We compare monocyte uptake of both polymeric and synthetic protein nanoparticles (SPNPs) of various sizes, as well as their effect on cell migration. SPNPs (human serum albumin/HSA or human transferrin/TF) are shown to promote increased monocyte-mediated transport across the BBB over polymeric nanoparticles. TF SPNPs (200 nm) associate readily, with an average uptake of 138 particles/cell. Nanoparticle loading is shown to influence the migration of THP-1 monocytes. The migration of monocytes loaded with 200 nm TF and 200 nm HSA SPNPs was 2.3-fold and 2.1-fold higher than that of an untreated control. RNA-seq analysis after TF SPNP treatment suggests that the upregulation of several migration genes may be implicated in increased monocyte migration (ex. integrin subunits α M and α L). Integrin β 2 chain combines with either integrin subunit α M chain or integrin subunit α L chain to form macrophage antigen 1 and lymphocyte function-associated antigen 1 integrins. Both products play a pivotal role in the transendothelial migration cascade. Our findings highlight the potential of SPNPs as drug and/or gene delivery platforms for monocyte-mediated BBB transport, especially where conventional polymer nanoparticles are ineffective or otherwise not desirable.
This study aimed to explore the active ingredients and potential mechanism of our hospital's Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) experiential prescription in the treatment of GBS based on network pharmacology.The traditional Chinese medicine system pharmacology (TCMSP) database was used to screen the active ingredients of the eight traditional Chinese medicines (TCMs) of the GBS-experiential prescription, and the Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man (OMIM), GeneCards, and MalaCards databases were used to obtain GBS-related gene targets. The common targets of the experiential prescriptions and GBS-related gene targets were acquired and imported into the STRING database to obtain the protein interaction relationship. Gene oncology (GO) function and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analyses were performed to predict the major mechanism of this prescription.The formula contained at least 154 potential active ingredients and a total of 4,270 unique targets, among which a total of 158 GBS-related disease targets and 70 common targets were found. The key targets included EGFR (Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor), TNF (Tumor Necrosis Factor), ITGAL (Integrin Subunit Alpha L), and CEBPA (CCAAT/Enhancer-Binding Protein Alpha), CPT2 (Carnitine Palmitoyltransferase 2), CRP (C-reactive protein), ICAM1 (Intercellular Adhesion Molecule 1), IL6 (interleukin 6), and PECAM1 (Platelet and Endothelial Cell Adhesion Molecule 1), CREBBP (CREB Binding Protein), etc. The GO enrichment analysis results revealed 116 terms, and the KEGG signaling pathway enrichment analysis results yielded 61 pathways, including influenza A, hepatitis B, malaria, etc.The development of GBS and the mechanism underlying the effects of the GBS-experiential prescription have common and complex targets, which are worthy of in-depth exploration.
During the development of sepsis, aberrant dendritic cell (DC) pyroptosis results in a significant decrease in the numbers of DCs and immune dysfunction. However, the molecular mechanisms regulating DC pyroptosis in sepsis remain unclear. Emerging evidence indicates that RETREG1/FAM134B (reticulophagy regulator 1) is involved in the regulation of programmed cell death to maintain cell viability. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate the potential role and regulatory pathways of RETREG1 in DC death during sepsis. We found that the upregulation of RETREG1 upon septic challenge was intimately associated with the maintenance of immune function. Depletion of RETREG1 in DC significantly aggravated DC pyroptosis and sepsis-induced immune dysfunction by activating the CASP3 (caspase 3)-GSDME (gasdermin E) signaling pathway. Mechanistically, defective RETREG1 expression inhibited autophagic degradation of the endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi intermediate compartment (ERGIC), resulting in abnormal activation of STING1 (stimulator of interferon response cGAMP interactor 1), which further induced CASP3-GSDME-dependent pyroptosis. Genetic downregulation of Tmed9 prevented the activation of STING1 and GSDME-mediated pyroptosis by disturbing ERGIC structure. These results suggest a novel RETREG1-based protective mechanism against DC-mediated immune impairment during sepsis. Genetic or pharmacological modulation of RETREG1 May represent a promising therapeutic strategy for treating sepsis-induced immune suppression.Abbreviations: 7-AAD: 7-aminoactinomycin D; ANXA5/annexin V: annexin A5; ARF1: ARF GTPase 1; ATP: adenosine triphosphate; CALCOCO1: calcium binding and coiled-coil domain 1; CASP1: caspase 1; cC3: cleaved CASP3; CCDC50: coiled-coil domain containing 50; CD274/PD-L1: CD274 molecule; CFSE: carboxyfluorescein diacetate succinimidyl ester; CGAS: cyclic GMP-AMP synthase; CLP: cecal ligation and puncture; DC: dendritic cell; DEGs: differentially expressed genes; DEPs: differently expressed proteins; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; ERGIC: endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi intermediate compartment; GO: Gene Ontology; GOLGA2/GM130: golgin A2; GSDMD: gasdermin D; GSDME: gasdermin E; GSEA: Gene set enrichment analysis; IFN-I: type I interferon; IKK: IκB kinase; IL2: interleukin 2; IRF3: interferon regulatory factor 3; ITGAX/Cd11c: integrin subunit alpha X; KEGG: Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes; LMAN1/ERGIC53: lectin, mannose binding 1; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MAP3K7/TAK1: mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase 7; NFKB/NFκB: nuclear factor kappa B; NLRP3: NLR family pyrin domain containing 3; PBMCs: peripheral blood mononuclear cells; PBS: phosphate-buffered saline; PCD: programmed cell death; PINK1: PTEN induced kinase 1; PRKN: parkin RBR E3 ubiquitin protein ligase; PRRs: pattern recognition receptors; PYCARD/ASC: PYD and CARD domain containing; RETREG1/FAM134B: reticulophagy regulator 1; SAMHD1: SAM and HD domain containing deoxynucleoside triphosphate triphosphohydrolase 1; SEC62: SEC62 preprotein translocation factor; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; STEEP1: STING1 ER exit protein 1; STING1: stimulator of interferon response cGAMP interactor 1; TBK1: TANK binding kinase 1; TGFB/TGFβ: transforming growth factor beta; TMED9: transmembrane p24 trafficking protein 9; TLR4: toll like receptor 4; TNF: tumor necrosis factor; Tregs: regulatory T cells; VAP: VAMP associated protein.
Bone is an attractive site for cancer colonization, both for primary tumors such as osteosarcoma and for metastases of various malignancies. Preventing bone metastasis, which is associated with a poor prognosis, is a major challenge and identifying the factors involved in skeletal tumoral development is crucial to improve survival. In the present work, we showed that inactivation of the macroautophagy/autophagy-essential gene Atg5 in osteoblasts, the cells in charge of bone formation, stimulates osteosarcoma and breastbone metastasis growth as well as metastatic dissemination. We determined that Atg5 inactivation leads to systemic inflammation and bone proteome modifications including translation downregulation, stress granule formation, and upregulation of fatty acid beta-oxidation. In addition, Atg5 inactivation triggered lysosomal exocytosis through an autophagy-independent effect. Thus, our findings indicated that autophagy/ATG5 deficiency in the bone microenvironment generates a favorable environment for tumor development through several mechanisms and suggested that a bone-targeted autophagy inducer could be used to delay bone metastasis appearance.Abbreviations: ACP5/TRAP : acid phosphatase 5, tartrate resistant; CHI3L1 : chitinase 3 like 1; COL1A1 : collagen type I alpha 1 chain; ECM: extracellular matrix ; FDR: false discovery rate; G3BP1 : G3BP stress granule assembly factor 1; GSEA : gene set enrichment analyses; IFNG : interferon gamma; IL1B : interleukin 1 beta; IL23A : interleukin 23; IPA: ingenuity pathway analyses; ITGAX/CD11c : integrin subunit alpha X; KO : knockout; LAMP1 : lysosomal associated membrane protein 1; LGALS3 : galectin 3; LLOMe : L-leucyl-L-leucine methyl ester; OB : osteoblast; OC : osteoclast; PDCD6IP/Alix : programmed cell death 6 interacting protein; PDK4 : pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase 4.
Acute liver injury (ALI) is a critical condition leading to acute liver failure, characterized by severe hepatocellular necrosis and inflammation. Integrin subunit α X (ITGAX) and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPAR-γ) are pivotal in macrophage-mediated inflammatory responses in ALI. This research investigated the function of ITGAX in regulating inflammation and apoptosis in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)/interferon-gamma (IFN-γ)-treated RAW264.7 macrophages.We used the GSE80751 dataset to construct a gene co-expression network and to identify ALI-related modules. After analyzing differentially expressed genes (DEGs), protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis was employed to identify hub genes. The effects of ITGAX knockdown on cytokine production, inflammasome activation, and macrophage polarization were evaluated using in vitro cell experiments. The interaction between ITGAX and the DNMT1/PPAR-γ/SIRT1 axis was also explored.ITGAX knockdown decreased the pro-inflammatory cytokine levels (IL-6, CCL2, CXCL2) and suppressed apoptosis in LPS-treated macrophages. It also decreased DNMT1, DNMT3B, and DNMT3A, while increasing PPAR-γ and SIRT1 expression. Moreover, ITGAX knockdown inhibited NLRP3 inflammasome engagement and reduced the levels of M1 cytokines (TNF-α, IL-1β, and IL-6). DNMT1 overexpression or PPAR-γ knockdown reversed the restraining impacts of ITGAX silencing on inflammasome activation and cytokine production. Additionally, ITGAX knockdown reduced NLRP3 inflammasome activation and polarization of M1 macrophages caused by LPS/IFN-γ.ITGAX knockdown modulates inflammatory responses by enhancing PPAR-γ expression and SIRT1 expression and preventing NLRP3 inflammasome activation in LPS/IFN-γ-treated RAW264.7 macrophages. These findings suggest ITGAX as a potential therapeutic target for ALI, providing insights into macrophage regulation in inflammatory liver diseases.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
IgA nephropathy (IgAN) represents the main cause of renal failure, while the precise pathogenetic mechanisms have not been fully determined. Herein, we conducted a cross-species single-cell survey on human IgAN and mouse and rat IgAN models to explore the pathogenic programs. Cross-species single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-Seq) revealed that the IgAN mesangial cells (MCs) expressed high levels of inflammatory signatures CXCL12, CCL2, CSF1, and IL-34 and specifically interacted with IgAN macrophages via the CXCL12/CXCR4, CSF1/IL-34/CSF1 receptor, and integrin subunit alpha X/integrin subunit alpha M/complement C3 (C3) axes. IgAN macrophages expressed high levels of CXCR4, PDGFB, triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2, TNF, and C3, and the trajectory analysis suggested that these cells derived from the differentiation of infiltrating blood monocytes. Additionally, protein profiling of 21 progression and 28 nonprogression IgAN samples revealed that proteins CXCL12, C3, mannose receptor C-type 1, and CD163 were negatively correlated with estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) value and poor prognosis (30% eGFR as composite end point). Last, a functional experiment revealed that specific blockade of the Cxcl12/Cxcr4 pathway substantially attenuated the glomerulus and tubule inflammatory injury, fibrosis, and renal function decline in the mouse IgAN model. This study provides insights into IgAN progression and may aid in the refinement of IgAN diagnosis and the optimization of treatment strategies.
Colon adenocarcinoma (COAD) is among the most prevalent cancers worldwide, ranking as the third most prevalent malignancy in incidence and mortality. The somatostatin receptor (SSTR) family comprises G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), which couple to inhibitory G proteins (Gi and Go) upon binding to somatostatin (SST) analogs. GPCRs are involved in hormone release, neurotransmission, cell growth inhibition, and cancer suppression. However, their roles in COAD remain unclear. This study used bioinformatics to investigate the expression, prognosis, gene alterations, functional enrichment, and immunoregulatory effects of the SSTR family members in COAD. SSTR1-4 are differentially downregulated in COAD, and low SSTR2 expression indicates poor survival. Biological processes and gene expression enrichment of the SSTR family in COAD were further analyzed using the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes and Gene Ontology. A strong correlation was observed between SSTR expression and immune cell infiltration. We also quantified SSTR2 expression in 25 COAD samples and adjacent normal tissues using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. We analyzed its correlation with the dendritic cell-integrin subunit alpha X marker gene. The biomarker exploration of the solid tumors portal was used to confirm the correlation between SSTR2 with immunomodulators and immunotherapy responses. Our results identify SSTR2 as a promising target for COAD immunotherapy. Our findings provide new insights into the biological functions of the SSTR family and their implications for the prognosis of COAD.Copyright © 2023 Yu, Yang, Nie, Jiang, He and Ou.
The secreted phosphoprotein 1 (SPP1) gene expressed by CD11c+ cells is known to be associated with microglia activation and neuroinflammatory diseases. As most studies rely on mouse models, we investigated these genes and proteins in the cortical brain tissue of older adults and their role in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and related disorders.We leveraged protein measurements, single-nuclei, and RNASeq data from the Religious Orders Study and Rush Memory and Aging Project (ROSMAP) of over 1200 samples for association analysis.Expression of SPP1 and its encoded protein osteopontin were associated with faster cognitive decline and greater odds of common neuropathologies. At single-cell resolution,  integrin subunit alpha X (ITGAX) was highly expressed in microglia, where specific subpopulations were associated with AD and cerebral amyloid angiopathy.The study provides evidence of SPP1 and ITGAX association with cognitive decline and common neuropathologies identifying a microglial subset associated with disease.© 2023 The Authors. Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of Alzheimer's Association.
The functional significance of the HIV-1 Antisense Protein (ASP) has been a paradox since its discovery. The expression of this protein in HIV-1-infected cells and its involvement in autophagy, transcriptional regulation, and viral latency have sporadically been reported in various studies. Yet, the definite role of this protein in HIV-1 infection remains unclear. Deciphering the 3D structure of HIV-1 ASP would throw light on its potential role in HIV lifecycle and host-virus interaction. Hence, using extensive molecular modeling and dynamics simulation for 200 ns, we predicted the plausible 3D-structures of ASP from two reference strains of HIV-1 namely, Indie-C1 (subtype-C) and NL4-3 (subtype-B) so as to derive its functional implication through structural domain analysis. In spite of sequence and structural differences in subtype B and C ASP, both structures appear to share common domains like the Von Willebrand Factor Domain-A (VWFA), Integrin subunit alpha-X (ITGSX), and ETV6-Transcriptional repressor, thereby reiterating the potential role of HIV-1 ASP in transcriptional repression and autophagy, as reported in earlier studies. Gromos-based cluster analysis of the centroid structures also reassured the accuracy of the prediction. This is the first study to elucidate a highly plausible structure for HIV-1 ASP which could serve as a feeder for further experimental validation studies.Copyright © 2023 Sathiyamani, Daniel, Ansar, Esakialraj, Hassan, Revanasiddappa, Keshavamurthy, Roy, Vetrivel and Hanna.
To investigate the effect of paired box protein 5 (PAX5)/integrin subunit alpha X (ITGAX) in atherosclerosis (AS). AS model was established using ApoE-/- mice (C57BL/6). Human vascular smooth muscle cells (HVSMCs) were stimulated with ox-LDL. Quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and Western blotting were used to detect the expression levels of genes and proteins. Reporter constructs and luciferase assays were used to investigate the role of ITGAX and PAX5. Cells proliferation and inflammation factors were detected. The results presented that aortic plaque area, lipid content, serum triglyceride, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels were significantly increased in the high-fat diet group (p < 0.05). ITGAX was upregulated in atherosclerotic tissues. In addition, ox-LDL treatment induced HVSMCs proliferation, migration, and invasion. Reporter constructs and luciferase assays indicated ITGAX interaction with PAX5. Furthermore, siITGAX and siPAX5 cotransfection restored the rate of HVSMCs in G1 and S and G2/M phases, decreased the content of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-ɑ), interleukin (IL)-6, and IL-8 (p < 0.05). Interestingly, siITGAX and siPAX5 cotransfection also decreased the expression levels of TNF-α, TNF-R1, TNF-R2, CD19, and CD86 (p < 0.05). Our results suggest that ITGAX may be a potential therapeutic target for AS.
Proper termination of cell-death-induced neural inflammation is the premise of tissue repair in acute ischemic stroke (AIS). Macrophages scavenge cell corpses/debris and produce inflammatory mediators that orchestrate immune responses. Here, we report that FOXP3, the key immune-repressive transcription factor of Tregs, is conditionally expressed in macrophages in stroke lesion. FOXP3 ablation in macrophages results in detrimental stroke outcomes, emphasizing the beneficial role of FOXP3+ macrophages. FOXP3+ macrophages are distinct from the M1 or M2 subsets and display superactive efferocytic capacity. With scRNAseq and analysis of FOXP3-bound-DNA isolated with CUT & RUN, we show that FOXP3 facilitates macrophage phagocytosis through enhancing cargo metabolism. FOXP3 expression is controlled by macroautophagic/autophagic protein degradation in resting macrophages, while initiation of LC3-associated phagocytosis (LAP) competitively occupies the autophagic machineries, and thus permits FOXP3 activation. Our data demonstrate a distinct set of FOXP3+ macrophages with enhanced scavenging capability, which could be a target in immunomodulatory therapy against AIS.Abbreviations: ADGRE1/F4/80: adhesion G protein-coupled receptor E1; AIF1/Iba1: allograft inflammatory factor 1; AIS: acute ischemic stroke; ARG1: arginase 1; ATP: adenosine triphosphate; BECN1/Beclin1: Beclin 1, autophagy related; BMDM: bone marrow-derived macrophages; CKO: conditional knockout; CSF1/M-CSF: colony stimulating factor 1 (macrophage); CSF2/GM-CSF: colony stimulating factor 2; CSF3/G-CSF: colony stimulating factor 3; CUT & RUN: cleavage under targets and release using nuclease; CyD: cytochalasin D; DAMP: danger/damage-associated molecular pattern; DIL: dioctadecyl-3,3,3,3-tetramethylin docarbocyanine; ELISA: enzyme linked immunosorbent assay; GO: Gene Ontology; FCGR3/CD16: Fc receptor, IgG, low affinity III; HMGB1: high mobility group box 1; IFNG/IFNγ: interferon gamma; IP: immunoprecipitation; KEGG: Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes; ITGAM/CD11b: integrin subunit alpha M; ITGAX/CD11c: integrin subunit alpha X; LAP: LC3-associated phagocytosis; LC-MS: liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; MRC1/CD206: mannose receptor, C type 1; O4: oligodendrocyte marker O4; PBMC: peripheral blood mononuclear cells; RBC: red blood cells; PTPRC/CD45: protein tyrosine phosphatase, receptor type, C; RBFOX3/NeuN: RNA binding protein, fox 1 homolog (C. elegans) 3; RUBCN/Rubicon: RUN domain and cysteine-rich domain containing, Beclin 1-interacting protein; scRNAseq: single cell RNA sequencing; SQSTM1/p62 (sequestosome 1); TGFB/TGFβ: transforming growth factor, beta; tMCAO: transient middle cerebral artery occlusion; TNF/TNFα: tumor necrosis factor; Treg: regulatory T cell.
The present study aimed to explore the signaling pathways involved in development of early steroid-induced osteonecrosis of the femoral head (SONFH) and identify diagnostic biomarkers regulating peripheral blood in SONFH patients. We downloaded transcriptome data and identified differentially expressed genes (DEGs) using the R software. We used ClusterProfiler to perform enrichment analysis of Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes, and analyzed protein-protein interactions using the STRING database. Network X was used to visualize the networks in Python. A total of 584 DEGs were identified, of which 294 and 290 were upregulated and downregulated, respectively. Enrichment analysis showed that the DEGs were mainly involved in red blood cell differentiation, cell protein catabolism, gas transportation, activation of myeloid leukocytes, phagocytosis, and inflammatory response. Pathway analysis revealed that these DEGs were involved in regulation of mitophagy-animal, human T-cell leukemia virus-1 infection, Forkhead box O, phagocytosis, osteoclast differentiation, and cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction results were consistent with findings from protein-protein interaction network analysis. Several genes, including peroxiredoxin 2, haptoglobin, matrix metallopeptidase 8, formyl peptide receptor 2, and integrin subunit alpha X, promote SONFH occurrence by regulating the redox, inflammatory response, and osteoblast and osteoclast structure and function pathways. They may be important targets for designing approaches for early diagnosis and treatment of SONFH.Copyright © 2022 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Moesin (Msn) is a member of the ERM (Ezrin, Radixin, and Moesin) protein family implicated in cell-cell recognition, cell adhesion, and migration. In this work, we identified Msn as an ανβ3 integrin-interacting molecule in human endothelial cells, with a role in endothelial cell signaling and angiogenesis. Msn and its active phosphorylated form are highly expressed in endothelial cells in vitro and in vivo. Pleiotrophin and vascular endothelial growth factor A165 (VEGFA165), increase Msn phosphorylation and decrease the interaction of Msn with ανβ3 integrin. Downregulation of Msn expression in endothelial cells using siRNA reduced VEGF receptor 2 (VEGFR2) expression and activation. It also decreased permeability, collective cell migration, and tube formation in vitro, concomitant with reduced angiogenesis and blood-brain barrier permeability in Msn knockout mice. Concurrently, it decreased β3 integrin expression, increased the c-Src- and phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)-dependent cell-surface localization of nucleolin, and activated ERK1/2 kinases and cMet. Pharmacological inhibitors of c-Src, PI3K, cell-surface nucleolin, ERK1/2, and cMet, but not of VEGFR2 or αvβ3 integrin, abolished siMsn-induced individual-cell motility. Taken together, these findings identify a novel binding partner of the αvβ3 integrin that regulates the activation of cMet and VEGFR2 in endothelial cells, clarifying the mechanisms underlying the activation of multiple angiogenic pathways and highlighting potential new targets for improving anti-angiogenic therapies.© 2026. The Author(s).
The ovarian follicle is an enclosed microenvironment that ensures oocyte growth and maturation, making it essential for female fertility. Normal folliculogenesis development and oocyte maturation strictly rely on orchestrated intercellular interactions among the mural granulosa cells (MGCs), cumulus cells (CCs), and the oocyte within antral follicles. Despite the importance, how these cell populations communicate remains largely unknown. Due to this knowledge gap, current oocyte in vitro maturation (IVM) systems fail to fully replicate the physiological follicular microenvironment due to the lack of MGC regulation, leading to poor oocyte quality and lower success rates of assisted reproductive technologies.RNA-seq was performed on MGCs, CCs, and oocytes isolated from single bovine antral follicles at different developmental stages (3-5 mm, 6-8 mm and 9-12 mm). Using a ligand-receptor interaction scoring strategy, we constructed a dynamic intrafollicular interaction map. We revealed that MGCs are the most active cell type, acting as either secretors or receivers, based on the number of ligands and receptors it expresses, as well as the number of interaction pairs it establishes with other cell types. Intriguingly, intrafollicular crosstalk exhibits spatiotemporal commonality, characterized by shared ligand-receptor usage and potential functional redundancy across cell types and stages. Notably, the intrafollicular communication map enables the prediction of MGC-secreted factors that can improve the oocyte quality after IVM. Based on the predicted candidate factors, we have confirmed that supplementation with pleiotrophin (PTN) significantly improved in vitro matured oocyte quality and subsequent embryonic development. In addition, we also revealed significant heterogeneity at single-follicle resolution, unhealthy follicles showed aberrant activation or loss of partial core interaction signaling, supporting the hypothesis that these interactions play a critical role in determining follicular fate.By reconstructing a map of intrafollicular interactions, our study provides novel insights and important clues for understanding cellular and molecular mechanisms that fine-tune antral folliculogenesis. We also offer a roadmap for predicting candidate factors that can be used for optimizing mammalian in vitro embryo production systems.© 2026. The Author(s).
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia. Pleiotrophin (PTN) is a neurotrophic factor relevant for central nervous system repair, neuron differentiation and survival. It is upregulated in different neuroinflammatory conditions. PTN is an endogenous inhibitor of Receptor Protein Tyrosine Phosphatase (RPTP) β/ζ. In a previous study, we showed that a short treatment with the RPTPβ/ζ inhibitor MY10 reduced amyloid beta (Aβ) plaque formation and glial activation in old APP/PS1 mice. Nevertheless, these preliminary data required new studies to prove the disease-modifying potential of RPTPβ/ζ inhibition by using younger animals and a longer treatment with MY10. Thus, we have now treated for 3 months five- to seven-month-old wild type (WT) and APP/PS1 mice with MY10. This treatment decreased Aβ plaque formation and increased the number of microglial cells in the dorsal subiculum of APP/PS1 mice. In addition, MY10 reduced the number of GFAP+, not Iba1+, cells surrounding Aβ plaques. As expected, PTN expression was upregulated in the brain of APP/PS1 compared to WT mice and it was mainly found in Iba1+ and GFAP+ cells. Interestingly, treatment with MY10 significantly decreased the expression of PTN and the number of PTN-expressing Iba1+ and GFAP+ cells. MY10 induced a significant decrease of Mmp9 expression in the hippocampus of APP/PS1 mice, a key enzyme in AD progression. In summary, chronic inhibition of RPTPβ/ζ in APP/PS1 mice reduces Aβ plaque deposition, modulating glial-plaque interactions and the expression of specific genes including Ptn and its receptor.Copyright © 2026 Fontán-Baselga, Cañeque-Rufo, Rivera-Illades, Gramage, Zapico, de Pascual-Teresa, Ramos-Álvarez, Vicente-Rodríguez and Herradón.
This study aimed to characterize cyclin-dependent kinase 1 (CDK1) expression in bladder cancer (BC), elucidate its role in intercellular signaling and mitosis, and identify small-molecule inhibitors targeting CDK1.RNA sequencing data from multiple databases were integrated, with immunohistochemistry on tissue microarrays validating protein expression. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), spatial transcriptomics (ST), gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), and molecular docking with molecular dynamics (MD) simulations were performed.CDK1 mRNA and protein were significantly overexpressed in BC tissues. CDK1 expression correlated with patient age and race. CDK1 was predominantly expressed in epithelial cells and central to pleiotrophin (PTN) pathway-mediated intercellular communication; virtual CDK1 knockout markedly reduced PTN signaling strength. ST confirmed CDK1 enrichment in tumor regions. GSEA linked CDK1 to mitosis and chromosome segregation, and scRNA-seq analyses revealed a PTN-CDK1-mitosis regulatory axis active specifically in epithelial cells. Dinaciclib showed favorable MD stability as a CDK1 inhibitor.CDK1 is significantly overexpressed in BC with good discriminatory ability. Predominantly expressed in BC epithelial cells, CDK1 may be activated by PTN signaling to drive mitosis. MD simulations support Dinaciclib as a promising CDK1-targeting inhibitor.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42390655 is a review article
The present study investigated the effect of a 3D-printed nanocomposite scaffold on bone healing in vivo. The scaffolds used were made from the bioresorbable thermoplastic polycaprolactone polymer, blended with Multi-Walled Carbon Nanotubes functionalized with chitosan, and manufactured with a rectilinear infill pattern and interconnected pores of 500 μm in size. The study included three groups of 10 Wistar rats, in which a 2 mm bone defect was created in the middle of the right femur. In the scaffold/peptide group, the gap was filled with the scaffold loaded with a peptide corresponding to human pleiotrophin amino acids 48-56 (PTN48-56), and the fracture was stabilized with a 12 mm K-wire as an intramedullary nail. In the scaffold group, the scaffold did not contain the peptide, and in the control group, the bone defect was stabilized without the use of a scaffold. Radiological examination revealed that bone healing was achieved on average in 6.6 weeks in the scaffold/peptide group, 7.2 weeks in the scaffold group, and 8.1 weeks in the control group. Histopathological examination performed 2 weeks postoperatively showed that angiogenesis in the scaffold/peptide group was 1.5 times higher than in the scaffold group and 2.5 times higher than in the control group. In conclusion, our osteo-inductive 3D-printed scaffold covered with PTN48-56 is a promising option for accelerating bone defect healing.
Synovial joints are complex organs composed of specialized tissues whose coordinated formation is essential for proper joint function. The cellular composition and regulatory programs governing late synovial joint development are less well characterized as compared to earlier stages of joint development. Here, we generated single-cell transcriptomic data of Growth differentiation factor 5 (Gdf5)-lineage cells from the embryonic mouse knee joint at embryonic day 17.5 and integrated these data with those from earlier developmental stages to infer transcriptional state progression across joint development. We identified nine distinct Gdf5-lineage populations corresponding to major joint tissues, including articular chondrocytes, superficial lining cells, ligament-tenogenic progenitors, synovial fibroblasts, and progenitor populations, and we validated their localization within the embryonic joint. We found a meniscus-associated progenitor state characterized by low expression of canonical chondrocyte markers and high expression of pleiotrophin (Ptn), distinguishing it from conventional articular chondrocytes. In addition, we found that Col22a1 and tetraspanin 15 (Tspan15) mark a transcriptionally and spatially distinct superficial lining cell population. To identify potential regulatory mechanisms underlying articular chondrocyte development, we reconstructed dynamic gene regulatory networks along the progenitor-to-chondrocyte trajectory, revealing a transition from a common regulatory state to cell type-specific regulatory program at later stages. In summary, our study provides data that improves our understanding of the developmental transcriptional programs that contribute to the major tissues of the synovial joint.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Primordial germ cells (PGCs) are critical tools for genome engineering and conservation in birds. While culture systems for chicken PGCs have been well established for nearly two decades, efforts to propagate PGCs from other avian species have proved exceptionally challenging, limiting the broader application of artificial reproductive technologies in birds. Here we report the first successful derivation and long-term culture of PGCs from the rock dove, or common pigeon (Columba livia). Guided by transcriptomic profiling of PGCs, we developed a species-specific medium that supports PGC maintenance and expansion. We identify insulin signaling as a requirement for survival under the conditions tested, and demonstrate that inhibition of the retinoic acid receptor, in the presence of vitamin A, supports propagation. Supplementation with BMP4, LIF, GDNF, and pleiotrophin further enhances PGC proliferation. Cultured cells express canonical germline markers and migrate to the gonads following injection into both rock dove and chicken embryos, confirming functional migratory competency. These findings establish a platform for germline manipulation and biobanking in Columbidae, broadening the potential applicability of reproductive technologies to conservation efforts.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Genetic Association.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42193935 is a review article
Cancer stem cells (CSCs), which can self-renew and produce heterogeneous cancer cells, are the key factors during tumorigenesis. Transcription factors take essential effects on CSCs. However, the role of transcription factors in regulating the stemness of gastric cancer stem-like cells has not been well explored. In this investigation, it was found that transcription factor NME2 (NME/NM23 nucleoside diphosphate kinase 2) was upregulated in gastric cancer stem-like cells that sorted from the solid tumors of patients with gastric cancer and gastric cancer cell lines. NME2 could preserve the stemness of gastric cancer stem-like cells via suppressing their apoptosis. In vitro and in vivo data revealed that NME2 was crucial for maintaining the stemness of gastric cancer stem cells by enhancing the expression of anti-apoptosis genes. Consequently, our data contributed a new perspective to the relationship between transcription factor and the stemness maintenance of gastric cancer stem cells.© 2021. The Author(s).
Our present study aimed to identify host cell proteins that may interact with avian reovirus (ARV) σA protein and their potential effect on ARV replication. The ARV structural protein σA has been demonstrated to suppress interferon production and confirmed to activate the PI3K/Akt pathway. However, host cell factors interacting with σA to affect ARV replication remain unknown. In current study, a cDNA library of chicken embryo fibroblasts (CEFs) was constructed, and host cell proteins interacting with σA were screened by a yeast two-hybrid system. We identified four candidate cellular proteins that interact with ARV σA protein. Among them, Gallus NME/NM23 nucleoside diphosphate kinase 2 (NME2) was further validated as a σA-binding protein through co-immunoprecipitation. The key interaction domain was identified at amino acids (aa) 121-416 in NME2 and at aa 71-139 in σA, respectively. We demonstrated that overexpression of NME2 substantially inhibited ARV replication. In addition silencing NME2 by small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) resulted in marked enhancement of ARV replication. Our work has demonstrated that NME2 is a σA-binding protein that may affect ARV replication in CEF cells.Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Our laboratory has previously described a mouse model (CD40LΔ5) that produces 60% of wild-type CD40L due to a targeted deletion in an RNA binding site within the CD40L message. The CD40LΔ5 mutation, which destabilizes CD40L mRNA during T-cell activation, causes disrupted germinal center (GC) formation, leading to reduced levels of memory B cells and switched antibodies. In this study, we used our model of limited CD40L expression to investigate its effect on systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE, or lupus) using 2 different mouse models of SLE. The first model used the hydrocarbon oil pristane to induce lupus-like symptoms over a 6-month period, and the second utilized a chronic graft-versus-host disease (bm12-cGVHD) that resembles lupus and allowed us to monitor the early events in disease development. Importantly, we found that in both systems, female mice expressing the CD40LΔ5 mutation showed a consistent increase in elevated antibody-secreting cells and autoantibody titers. In addition, pristane-induced lupus female CD40LΔ5 mice had higher levels of immunocomplex deposition in the kidney compared to all other cohorts. Increases in autoantibodies and GC cells in female CD40LΔ5 versus wild-type recipient mice were also evident in the bm12-cGVHD model. Additionally, CD4+ T cells from female CD40LΔ5 recipient mice were skewed toward a Th2 phenotype and expressed a distinct cytokine expression pattern upon activation of dendritic cells. Overall, our results support a nuanced role for optimal CD40L expression in lupus and suggest a sex-determined threshold of CD40L-CD40 signaling that is critical at the very early steps of disease progression.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The American Association of Immunologists. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42517579 is a review article
Background: Left ventricular (LV) dysfunction is a clinically important complication of anthracycline- and trastuzumab-based treatment in breast cancer. Inflammatory pathways may contribute to cancer therapy-related cardiac dysfunction, and the CD40/CD40 ligand (CD40L) axis has been implicated in vascular inflammation and myocardial injury. This study assessed longitudinal changes in CD40 and CD40L during adjuvant treatment and their association with LV dysfunction. Methods: Twenty-eight women with operable breast cancer receiving adjuvant anthracycline-based chemotherapy with or without trastuzumab were prospectively evaluated. Blood samples were collected at baseline, 6 months, and treatment completion at 15 months to measure CD40 and CD40L. Cardiac function was assessed by transthoracic echocardiography, including left ventricular ejection fraction and global longitudinal strain, at baseline and every 3 months. Repeated-measures analysis of variance examined temporal biomarker changes and interactions with LV dysfunction. Results: Participants had a mean age of 52.6 ± 10.7 years and a mean BMI of 25.8 ± 4.8 kg/m2; 64% were postmenopausal, 76% had HER2-positive disease, and 79.3% received radiotherapy and trastuzumab. During follow-up, 15 patients (53.6%) developed LV dysfunction. CD40 levels remained stable overall (p = 0.31), whereas CD40L increased significantly over time (p < 0.001). Baseline CD40 did not differ by LV dysfunction status (p = 0.79). However, CD40 showed a significant time-by-LV dysfunction interaction (p = 0.022), increasing late in patients with LV dysfunction and declining in those without it. CD40L showed no such interaction (p = 0.85). Conclusions: In this small exploratory cohort, CD40 demonstrated differential longitudinal patterns according to subsequent LV dysfunction, whereas CD40L increased over time without a clear association with LV dysfunction. These findings should be interpreted as hypothesis-generating and require validation in larger prospective cohorts.
Neuroblastoma remains one of the most lethal pediatric solid tumors, and durable control of high-risk disease is hindered not only by inefficient tumor-selective drug delivery but also by a profoundly immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment. To address these dual barriers, we developed a chemoimmunotherapeutic vesicle-mimetic platform, DAS/CD40L-EM@DOX, by engineering CD40L-overexpressing HEK-293 T donor cells, generating extracellular vesicle mimetics through extrusion, decorating the membrane with a neuroblastoma-targeting DAS peptide, and post-loading doxorubicin. The resulting formulation preserved a nanoscale vesicular morphology, displayed CD40L on the membrane, and showed favorable particle size and zeta potential characteristics. In neuroblastoma cells, DAS decoration enhanced uptake in an α7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor-associated manner and increased the cytotoxic and immunogenic effects of doxorubicin, as evidenced by augmented apoptosis, calreticulin exposure, and HMGB1 release. In macrophage assays, CD40L-containing vesicles shifted M2-like cells toward an M1-like phenotype, increasing CD86, TNF-α and IL-6 while decreasing CD206, IL-10 and TGF-β. Functionally, this repolarization enhanced tumor-cell phagocytosis and promoted CD8+ T-cell effector responses, including increased granzyme B, IFN-γ and IL-2 production. In tumor-bearing mice, DAS modification improved tumor accumulation and reduced off-target sequestration relative to unmodified vesicles. Therapeutically, DAS/CD40L-EM@DOX exerted the strongest inhibition of tumor growth, reduced tumor burden, prolonged survival, increased intratumoural M1-like macrophages and CD8+ T cells, decreased M2-like macrophages and regulatory T cells, and enhanced immunogenic cell-death markers in situ. Together, these findings support DAS/CD40L-EM@DOX as a dual-function vesicle-mimetic nanomedicine that couples neuroblastoma-targeted chemotherapy with macrophage reprogramming to remodel the tumor immune microenvironment and improve antitumour efficacy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42482223 is a review article
Low sexual function is common in chronic kidney disease (CKD), yet the contribution of inflammatory pathways in affected women remains poorly defined. We sought to characterize cytokine profiles associated with low sexual function in women with advanced CKD. We enrolled 32 women aged 18-51 yr with CKD stages 3b-5 in a cross-sectional study assessing hormonal profiles and sexual function using the Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI); low sexual function was defined as FSFI <26.55. Plasma samples were analyzed using a 48-plex cytokine assay. Cytokine concentrations were compared using the Wilcoxon two-sample test, with false discovery rate control (FDR <0.05) via the Benjamin-Hochberg procedure. Principal component analysis (PCA) was used to evaluate cytokine patterns associated with low sexual function. : Thirty participants completed the FSFI; 22 (73%) met criteria for low sexual function. Of 48 cytokines examined, soluble CD40 ligand (sCD40L) was the only marker that remained significant after FDR correction, with lower levels observed in women with low sexual function (median 520.9 vs. 1,140 pg/mL; P = 0.0004; FDR = 0.02). Each 100 pg/mL increase in sCD40L was associated with a 34% reduction in odds of having low sexual function after adjusting for age and estimated glomerular filtration rate [adjusted odds ratio (OR) 0.66; 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.49-0.90]. PCA revealed that principal component 1 explained 37.4% of the variance, and higher levels were associated with a higher odds of low sexual function (OR 1.42; 95% CI 1.03-1.96). Low sexual function was highly prevalent and associated with differences in inflammatory and immune signaling, suggesting immune-vascular pathways may influence female sexual health in CKD.NEW & NOTEWORTHY This study is the first to investigate cytokine profiles in women with advanced CKD and low sexual function. We found that lower levels of soluble CD40 ligand were independently linked to higher odds of having low sexual function. Principal component analysis demonstrated that a broader immune activation pattern was associated with higher odds of having low sexual function. Together, these findings suggest that immune signaling patterns may be relevant to sexual health in women with CKD.
Ferroptosis-based cancer therapy shows promise in tumor suppression but is often limited by insufficient activation of antitumor immunity. Here, a hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) targeted nanoplatform was constructed by coating FePDA nanozymes with Hepa1-6 cell membranes overexpressing ovalbumin (OVA) and CD40 ligand (CD40L), generating tumor membrane-derived OVA/CD40L-functionalized FePDA nanoparticles (FePDA-TMOC). This hybrid architecture integrates homologous tumor targeting with iron homeostasis disruption and co-stimulatory immune activation within a single nanosystem. Mechanistically, the FePDA core induces sustained depletion of intracellular glutathione (GSH), leading to enhanced lipid peroxidation and promoting ferroptosis by disrupting the GPX4-SLC7A11 axis. Simultaneously, the OVA/CD40L-modified membrane promotes efficient uptake by antigen-presenting cells and enhances pro-inflammatory immune activation through co-stimulatory signaling. In vitro experiments demonstrated that FePDA-TMOC selectively induces ferroptosis in Hepa1-6 cells and drives macrophage polarization toward a pro-inflammatory phenotype. Following systemic administration, FePDA-TMOC preferentially accumulates in tumors, markedly increases CD8+ T cell infiltration, elevates pro-inflammatory cytokine levels, and suppresses tumor growth and metastasis without observable systemic toxicity. By integrating ferroptosis induction with antitumor immune activation, this work highlights a rational strategy for transforming immune "cold" tumors into "hot" tumors, providing a potential nanotherapeutic approach for HCC treatment.© 2026 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) is an aggressive subtype of ALL characterized by unfavorable clinical outcomes. Despite significant progress in deciphering the genetic and epigenetic landscapes of T-ALL, the underlying molecular mechanisms, particularly in non-early T-cell precursor (non-ETP) T-ALL, remain incompletely understood. In this study, functional assays were performed using three well-characterized non-ETP T-ALL cell lines. In vivo therapeutic efficacy was evaluated using non-ETP T-ALL xenograft models. Transcriptomic profiling was performed by RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) followed by bioinformatic analysis. Publicly available clinical datasets from T-ALL patients were mined to analyze survival outcomes. We found that activation of CD40 ligand (CD40LG) or CD28 accelerates cell-cycle progression and enhances the migratory capacity of non-ETP T-ALL cells, with CD40LG uniquely upregulating CXCR4 to mediate bone marrow tropism. Further RNA-seq and functional validation identified Rho GTPase signaling, specifically RhoA/Rac1/Rac2, as a pivotal downstream effector of CD40LG/CD28, leading to therapeutic resistance to PI3K inhibition. Pharmacological blocking RhoA or Rac1 using small-molecule compounds not only induces remarkable cytotoxicity but also sensitizes resistant cells to PI3K inhibitors, both in vitro and in vivo. Clinically, elevated expression of CD40LG, CD28, RHOA, or RAC2 correlates with poor prognosis in non-ETP T-ALL patients. These findings uncover a novel CD40LG/CD28-Rho GTPase axis as a key driver of pathogenesis and a potential therapeutic vulnerability in non-ETP T-ALL, providing a new target for precision intervention and a promising strategy to overcome therapeutic resistance.
Background/Objectives: Acute pulmonary embolism (PE) and hospitalization-requiring community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) may present with overlapping clinical, laboratory, and radiological features. Soluble CD40 ligand (sCD40L) is a platelet-derived thrombo-inflammatory mediator that may be influenced by both thrombotic and inflammatory processes. This study retrospectively compared on-admission serum sCD40L concentrations between selected hospitalized patients with established acute PE and selected patients with hospitalization-requiring CAP. Methods: This single-center retrospective exploratory comparative biomarker study included 82 hospitalized adults: 48 with computed tomography pulmonary angiography (CTPA)-confirmed acute PE and 34 with hospitalization-requiring CAP defined using CURB-65-supported admission criteria. Stored admission serum samples were used for sCD40L measurement. Between-group comparison was the primary analysis; receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis was performed as a secondary exploratory description of the apparent within-sample discriminatory signal. Results: sCD40L was higher in acute PE than in hospitalization-requiring CAP (median 821.3 vs. 629.0 pg/mL; p < 0.001). ROC analysis demonstrated a strong exploratory within-sample discriminatory signal (AUC 0.951, 95% CI 0.905-0.997). After excluding five patients with recorded antiplatelet or rivaroxaban exposure, the apparent signal remained similar (AUC 0.945; bootstrap 95% CI 0.891-0.984), and sCD40L remained associated with PE in a Firth-penalized model adjusted for platelet count and COPD (OR 3.39 per 50 pg/mL, 95% CI 2.00-7.71; p < 0.001). Conclusions: In this retrospective selected two-group comparison, on-admission serum sCD40L concentrations were higher in established acute PE than in hospitalization-requiring CAP. ROC-derived estimates should be interpreted only as apparent within-sample discrimination and not as a replacement for D-dimer, clinical probability assessment, or imaging-based PE diagnosis. Prospective validation in unselected suspected-PE cohorts is required before any diagnostic or clinical use can be considered.
Due to its central role in regulating adaptive immune responses through CD40 engagement, the CD40 ligand (CD40L) represents an attractive therapeutic target for inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. Here, CD40L-specific affibody molecules were generated by directed evolution using an Escherichia coli surface display platform. Two affibody candidates were identified that specifically recognized human CD40L on the surface of activated primary T cells. To exploit the homotrimeric architecture of CD40L, the affibody candidates were genetically fused to the NC1 domains of human collagen XV or XVIII, yielding well-defined homotrimeric constructs. The trimeric affibody formats were characterized with respect to oligomeric state, thermal stability, binding kinetics, cellular target engagement, and functional inhibition of CD40 signaling. NC1-mediated trimerization resulted in an approximately 100-fold improvement in apparent affinity, markedly enhanced binding to membrane-bound CD40L, and potent inhibition of CD40L-induced NF-κB activation in a reporter cell assay. Collectively, these results establish collagen XV and XVIII NC1 domains as effective trimerization modules for affibody molecules and highlight a strategy for engineering Fc-independent, multivalent antagonists targeting CD40L.© 2026. The Author(s).
Hepatic stellate cell (HSC) activation can lead to liver fibrosis, for which there are no effective treatments. Aberrant cytoskeletal reorganization is a central driver of HSC activation. Non-muscle myosin II (NM II) is known to regulate cytoskeleton remodeling via its actin cross-linking and contractile properties. However, the molecular players controlling actomyosin assembly and contractility in HSCs during liver fibrosis remain poorly defined. Here, we identified integrin β-like 1 (ITGBL1) as a gatekeeper of HSC quiescence by negatively regulating actomyosin contractility-driven mechanotransduction in HSCs. ITGBL1 expression was markedly elevated in activated HSCs found in patient and mouse fibrotic livers. Unexpectedly, HSC-specific Itgbl1 deficiency worsened liver fibrosis, whereas ITGBL1 overexpression in HSCs limited it, suggesting a protective role for ITGBL1 against a pathogenic HSC activation. Multi-omics and functional analyses revealed that ITGBL1 impaired F-actin filament organization in HSCs by disrupting myosin heavy chain 9 (MYH9, also named NM II heavy chain A)-dependent actomyosin assembly. In line, HSC-specific Myh9 deficiency or silencing of Myh9 in HSCs alleviated liver fibrosis. Taken together, our findings unveil the ITGBL1-MYH9 interaction acts as a critical mechano-regulatory brake that maintains cytoskeletal equilibrium and mechanical homeostasis in HSCs, providing a promising therapeutic strategy to combat liver fibrosis.
Severe fever with thrombocytopenia syndrome virus (SFTSV), also known as Dabie bandavirus, is the pathogen causing severe fever with thrombocytopenia syndrome (SFTS). Human cell receptors are the first barriers to viral entry, proliferation, and host immune response. This study explored the association between single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in genes encoding receptors or related molecules that mediate SFTSV cell entry, such as dendritic cell-specific intercellular adhesion molecule-3-grabbing non-integrin (DC-SIGN), DC-SIGN-related protein (DC-SIGNR), and non-muscle myosin heavy chain IIA (NMMHC-IIA), and SFTSV infection susceptibility in the Chinese Han population, as well as the underlying potential biological mechanisms. From September 2020 to December 2022, 454 subjects from the First Affiliated Hospital with Nanjing Medical University were enrolled and divided into SFTSV-infected and uninfected groups based on SFTSV RNA and antibody test results. TaqMan SNP genotyping was performed on DC-SIGN (rs7248637, rs4804800, and rs11465421), DC-SIGNR (rs2277998), and NMMHC-IIA (rs2269529 and rs2269530). Logistic regression was used to assess the association between the candidate SNPs and SFTSV infection susceptibility, and the online bioinformatics tools were employed to explore potential biological functions of positive SNPs. Logistic regression analysis showed that individuals carrying the DC-SIGNR rs2277998 AA genotype were more susceptible to SFTSV infection, and in silico bioinformatics analysis generated the hypothesis that this locus might be involved in influencing gene transcription and expression, which warrants further functional validation. DC-SIGNR rs2277998 is significantly associated with SFTSV infection susceptibility in the Chinese Han population. The exact regulatory mechanisms require further experimental validation.IMPORTANCESevere fever with thrombocytopenia syndrome (SFTS) is an emerging infectious disease caused by severe fever with thrombocytopenia syndrome virus (SFTSV). Host genetic variation may modulate both disease susceptibility and severity by altering key functional proteins. Our study was the first to explore the association between single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in host genes encoding receptors or related molecules that mediate SFTSV cell entry, such as dendritic cell-specific intercellular adhesion molecule-3-grabbing non-integrin (DC-SIGN), DC-SIGN-related protein (DC-SIGNR), and non-muscle myosin heavy chain IIA (NMMHC-IIA), and SFTSV infection susceptibility in the Chinese Han population. The results showed that the homozygous mutation of DC-SIGNR rs2277998 AA genotype was associated with a significantly higher risk of SFTSV infection in the Chinese Han population, with in silico predictions pointing to a potential, yet unverified, role in regulating the DC-SIGNR gene transcription and expression, which may provide a new scientific basis for SFTSV prevention and treatment.
While antitumor immunity in lung cancer is typically evaluated within the tumor microenvironment and regional lymphoid organs, immune features in non-tumorous lung tissue-particularly at sites distant from the primary tumor-may also reflect host-related pulmonary immune characteristics. However, the clinical relevance of immune cell abundance in such tumor-distant lung parenchyma remains unclear. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate whether immune cell abundance in tumor-distant non-tumorous lung tissue is associated with clinicopathological features and postoperative outcomes in patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).This retrospective observational study included 40 patients with NSCLC who underwent curative lobectomy and had paired tumor-near and tumor-distant lung tissue specimens available for analysis. Immunohistochemical staining for dendritic cell-specific intercellular adhesion molecule-3-grabbing nonintegrin (DC-SIGN)-positive cells and CD169-positive macrophages was performed, and immune cell counts were quantified using a hotspot counting method. Associations between immune cell counts, clinicopathological variables, smoking exposure, and recurrence-free survival (RFS) were analyzed.Both DC-SIGN-positive cells and CD169-positive macrophages were significantly more abundant in tumor-near lung tissue than in tumor-distant tissue. However, only DC-SIGN-positive cell counts in tumor-distant lung parenchyma were associated with postoperative recurrence. Higher numbers of DC-SIGN-positive cells in tumor-distant specimens were associated with favorable RFS in univariate analysis, although this association did not remain statistically significant after propensity score (PS) adjustment, whereas immune cell counts in tumor-near tissue showed no clear association with postoperative outcomes. Tumor-distant DC-SIGN-positive cell counts were lower in patients with advanced pathological stage and tended to be reduced in those with lymph node metastasis. In contrast, CD169-positive macrophage counts were strongly associated with smoking exposure but were not related to RFS in either spatial compartment.Lower abundance of DC-SIGN-positive cells in tumor-distant, non-tumorous lung parenchyma was associated with more advanced pathological features and postoperative recurrence, suggesting inter-individual variability in pulmonary interstitial immune cell distribution beyond the tumor microenvironment. These findings support the possibility that inter-individual differences in tumor-distant pulmonary immune landscapes may be associated with advanced pathological features and postoperative recurrence.© AME Publishing Company.
Background/Objectives: Pediatric sepsis is increasingly recognized as a syndrome involving immune-vascular dysregulation. However, most pediatric biomarker studies focus on individual molecules rather than coordinated patterns of leukocyte-endothelial activation. This study aimed to evaluate whether children diagnosed with sepsis within 48 h of admission showed a coordinated soluble adhesion-molecule activation profile measured at enrollment. Methods: This prospective cohort study included 144 children aged 1-60 months with suspected infection enrolled at Dong Nai Children's Hospital, Vietnam, from May 2021 to October 2022. Blood samples were collected at enrollment. Sepsis was classified according to the 2005 International Pediatric Sepsis Consensus Conference (IPSCC) criteria within 48 h of admission. Twelve soluble adhesion molecules were measured using a multiplex immunoassay. A composite adhesion activation score was derived by log2 transformation, z-score standardization, and averaging across the 12 markers. Principal component analysis (PCA) was used as an exploratory method to summarize the shared variation across the adhesion-molecule panel. C-reactive protein (CRP) was included as a routinely available inflammatory comparator. Results: Among 144 children, 32 (22.2%) were diagnosed with sepsis within 48 h of admission. Individual marker discrimination was strongest for L-selectin (area under the receiver operating characteristic curve [AUC] 0.883), followed by soluble vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (sVCAM-1; AUC 0.855), intercellular adhesion molecule-3 (ICAM-3; AUC 0.838), P-selectin glycoprotein ligand-1 (PSGL-1; AUC 0.836), E-selectin (AUC 0.819), and intercellular adhesion molecule-2 (ICAM-2; AUC 0.819). CRP also differed between children with and without sepsis but had a lower AUC than the leading adhesion molecules in descriptive ROC analyses. The composite adhesion activation score was strongly associated with sepsis (odds ratio 7.95 per 1-standard deviation increase; 95% confidence interval 3.44-18.40; p < 0.001) and showed good discrimination (AUC 0.855; 95% confidence interval 0.776-0.931). The first principal component explained 70.0% of biomarker variance, consistent with coordinated elevation of correlated adhesion molecules. Conclusions: In this prospective Vietnamese pediatric cohort, children diagnosed with sepsis within 48 h of admission showed coordinated elevation of soluble adhesion molecules measured at enrollment. These findings support the biological relevance of leukocyte-endothelial activation in pediatric sepsis. However, the adhesion-molecule activation profile should be considered exploratory and hypothesis-generating, requiring external validation and further evaluation against simplified, clinically feasible biomarker approaches.
Annexin A6 (ANXA6) regulates cholesterol transfer across membrane contact sites (MCSs) between late endosomes/lysosomes (LE/Lys) and the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) via the late endosomal StAR-related lipid transfer domain-3 (STARD3) transporter. Here, we describe a significant reduction of MCSs in ANXA6-depleted HeLa cells, which could be rescued by restoration of ANXA6 expression. Using AnxA6 as bait in BioID-based assays, we demonstrate that ANXA6 interacts with various tethers and bona fide MCS proteins that can modulate multi-organelle contacts. STARD3 interactors identified in BioID assays include the mitochondrial translocator protein (TSPO) and myosin heavy chain 9 (MYH9). Strikingly, reduced MCS formation in ANXA6-depleted cells was associated with changes in the STARD3 interactome that indicate altered MCS tethering functions of STARD3. Specifically, ANXA6 deficiency correlated with (1) altered positioning of STARD3-positive LE/Lys; (2) a new repertoire of cortical actin-binding proteins, including myosins interacting with STARD3; (3) and decreased microvillar structures and focal adhesions.© 2026 The Authors.
Dysregulation of cholesterol homeostasis is closely associated with the development of various cancers, but the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. This study found that the circadian clock gene Period 2 (PER2) is downregulated in oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC), promoting intracellular cholesterol synthesis and cell proliferation. Conversely, PER2 overexpression inhibits cell proliferation by suppressing intracellular cholesterol synthesis. Mechanistically, PER2 binds to Myosin Heavy Chain 9 (MYH9) and recruits Tripartite Motif Containing-21 (TRIM21) to promote ubiquitin-dependent degradation of MYH9, thereby inhibiting the cholesterol synthesis rate-limiting enzyme 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase (HMGCR), reducing intracellular cholesterol synthesis, and suppressing OSCC proliferation. In OSCC xenograft models, overexpression of PER2 or treatment with the HMGCR inhibitor simvastatin significantly inhibited OSCC growth, with the combination showing markedly enhanced anti-OSCC efficacy compared to either approach alone. To explore the circadian regulatory role of PER2, overexpression or silencing experiments in OSCC demonstrated that PER2 modulates the circadian rhythms of HMGCR expression, intracellular cholesterol, and cell proliferation. Further investigations in subcutaneous OSCC mouse models revealed sex-specific circadian rhythms in PER2 and HMGCR expression, intracellular cholesterol, cell proliferation, and tumor growth in OSCC cells. Specifically, the acrophases of these indicators in OSCC of male mice were delayed relative to females, and the mesors of HMGCR expression, intracellular cholesterol, and cell proliferation were significantly higher than in females. The anticancer efficacy of simvastatin against OSCC in mice varied up to 2.5-fold across six different time points within 24 h, with broader time windows for optimal therapeutic efficacy and adverse effects in female mice than in males. This study identified a novel mechanism by which PER2 reprograms intracellular cholesterol, demonstrating that PER2 upregulation combined with simvastatin represents a potential novel strategy to improve the prognosis of OSCC patients, and clarifies that the anti-OSCC effect of simvastatin exhibits time-dependent and sex differences.© 2026. The Author(s).
Breast cancer (BC) represents one of the leading causes of cancer-related mortality in women worldwide. Betulinic acid (BA), a naturally derived pentacyclic triterpenoid, exhibits anti-BC activity. Recent evidence implicates RNF125, a RING-domain E3 ubiquitin ligase, as a tumor suppressor. This study aimed to elucidate whether BA exerts anti-BC effects via RNF125 regulation and explored the underlying mechanisms.RNF125-overexpressing or knockdown BC cell lines were generated to examine the regulatory effect on cell proliferation, motility, and invasiveness. Furthermore, a subcutaneous xenograft mouse model was established to evaluate the influence of RNF125 on tumor growth in vivo.Bioinformatics analyses revealed BA-mediated upregulation of RNF125 in BC cells. Pan-cancer data indicated reduced RNF125 expression in BC specimens, correlating with unfavorable survival outcomes. Consistently, our results showed that BA upregulates RNF125 protein expression in a concentration-dependent manner. In clinically collected BC samples, diminished RNF125 expression was significantly associated with advanced TNM staging. Functional assays demonstrated that RNF125 overexpression suppressed cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. Conversely, RNF125 knockdown reversed these effects and abrogated BA-mediated suppression of malignant phenotypes in BC cells. Mechanistically, RNF125 interacted with MYH9 (Myosin Heavy Chain 9) to facilitate its ubiquitin-mediated proteasomal degradation. In BA-treated BC cells, the protein expression of MYH9 was inhibited. Ectopic MYH9 expression reversed the tumor-suppressive effects of RNF125 overexpression. Finally, a murine xenograft model confirmed that RNF125 overexpression inhibits BC tumor growth.These findings suggested that RNF125 mediates the anti-tumor effect of BA, at least in part, through ubiquitin-dependent degradation of MYH9.© 2026. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Japan Society of Clinical Oncology.
It is well established that the function of DCs (dendritic cells) is impaired during malaria infection; however, the underlying mechanisms responsible for this impairment remain poorly understood. In this study, we found that ATG5 (autophagy related 5) deficiency in DCs significantly suppressed the growth of malaria blood-stage parasites, and this effect was independent of both canonical and non-canonical macroautophagy/autophagy pathways in these cells. The reduced parasite growth observed in atg5f/f Itgax/Cd11c-Cre+ mice was associated with an enhanced parasite-specific CD4+ T cell response, which provided crucial support for the functional activation of Plasmodium-specific CD8+ T cells. Mechanistically, ATG5 deficiency led to a marked increase in the expression of the phagocytic receptor CD209A/DC-SIGN on conventional DCs (cDCs), thereby enhancing their capacity to activate Plasmodium-specific CD4+ T cell responses. Furthermore, the expression of CD209A was mediated by the TLR2 (toll-like receptor 2) signaling pathway, which was significantly augmented in the absence of ATG5. Thus, we reveal a novel role for ATG5 in modulating anti-malarial cellular immune responses by influencing TLR2-mediated CD209A expression in cDCs. These findings not only enhance our understanding of impaired DC function during malaria infection but also provide valuable insights for the design of more effective malaria vaccines.Abbreviations: ATG5: autophagy related 5; cDCs: conventional dendritic cells; CFSE: carboxyfluorescein succinimidyl ester; DC-SIGN: dendritic cell-specific intercellular adhesion molecule-3-grabbing non-integrin; IFNG/IFN-γ: interferon gamma; LAP: LC3-associated phagocytosis; MAPK: mitogen-activated protein kinase; NFKB1/NF-κB: nuclear factor of kappa light polypeptide gene enhancer in B cells 1, p105; pRBCs: parasitized red blood cells; PRRs: pattern recognition receptors; TLR2: toll-like receptor 2; TNF/TNF-α: tumor necrosis factor.
Background/Objectives: Exposure to high and sustained levels of non-esterified fatty acids (NEFA) in the peripartal period is the main cause of fatty liver disease in dairy cows. Rumen-protected choline is often fed as part of the nutritional management of peripartal cows, with in vivo and in vitro data indicating positive effects of this nutrient on alleviating liver lipid accumulation. Although hepatic molecular mechanisms associated with choline supply have been studied using a target gene, protein, or metabolite approach, application of high-throughput technologies could vastly enhance fundamental knowledge on the functional role of choline. The main objective was to challenge isolated hepatocytes with a mixture of NEFA and determine proteome- and metabolome-wide effects in response to choline supply. Methods: Three healthy female calves (1 d old, 30-45 kg) were sacrificed to harvest hepatocytes. During a 12 h incubation, isolated hepatocytes were challenged without NEFA (control), 1.2 mM NEFA (c9-18:1, 18:2, 16:0, 18:0, and c9-16:1 at 43.5%, 4.9%, 31.9%, 14.4%, and 5.3% of total NEFA, respectively), or NEFA for 6 h followed by 10 μM choline chloride for another 6 h (NEFA + Chol). iTRAQ labeling-based protein profiling and GC/MS-based metabolomics profiling were used to determine changes in proteins and metabolites. Differentially abundant proteins for each group comparison were determined at a threshold of 1.4-fold change. Differences in metabolite profiles were assessed via pairwise comparisons. A subset of differentially abundant proteins was validated via qRT-PCR and Western blotting. Results: Compared with the control, there were 90 proteins and 22 metabolites in the NEFA group, and 83 proteins and 29 metabolites in the NEFA + Chol. Compared with NEFA, there were 49 proteins and 17 metabolites in the NEFA + Chol group. Greater abundance of hexokinase-1 (HK1), fructose-bisphosphate aldolase (ALDOA), mitochondrial pyruvate carrier 1 (MPC1), and increased concentrations of lactate with high NEFA treatment alone suggested greater glycolytic and TCA cycle activity. Accumulation of triacylglycerol in the NEFA group was associated with lipotoxicity and markers of inflammation, such as greater abundance of prostaglandin reductase 1 (PTGR1), serious cell autophagy processes, such as greater abundance of cell division cycle 42 (CDC42), and NFκB-related proteins. Choline supplementation reduced TAG partly due to greater VLDL secretion driven by greater abundance of diacylglycerol acyltransferase (DGAT1), perilipin 3 (PLIN3), and apolipoprotein C-III (APOC3). In addition, a greater abundance of carnitine O-palmitoyltransferase 1b (CPT1B) with choline suggested enhanced mitochondrial β-oxidation. Activation of the CDC42/JNK pathway and ROS/NFκB axis-related proteins, along with depressed PI3K/AKT/RAC-related proteins, indicated enhanced mitochondrial autophagy in response to NEFA. Conclusions: Overall, data confirmed published effects of choline on TAG accumulation, VLDL secretion, and fatty acid oxidation, while highlighting negative effects of NEFA on the respiratory electron transport chain, autophagy, and inflammatory processes.
Cell division cycle 42 (Cdc42) is a member of the Rho family of small GTPases, which plays crucial roles in regulating cytoskeletal remodeling, and membrane trafficking. While previous studies implicated Cdc42 in controlling intestinal epithelial homeostasis, the involvement of this small GTPase in the process of intestinal fibrogenesis remains unexplored. Our study was designed to determine whether Cdc42 regulates the fibrogenic activation of intestinal myofibroblasts in vitro . The study was conducted using a CCD-18Co normal human colonic fibroblast cell line, and primary human intestinal myofibroblasts (HIMF) isolated from Crohn's disease (CD) patients. CCD-18Co and HIMF cells were stimulated by transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1). Cdc42 was inhibited either genetically, using siRNA-mediated knockdown, or pharmacologically using specific Cdc42 inhibitors, ML141 and CASIN. Genetic and pharmacologic inhibition of Cdc42 markedly reduced TGF-β1 induced expression of the major contractile cytoskeletal proteins, α-smooth muscle actin, calponin 1 and L-caldesmon. Furthermore, Cdc42 inhibition significantly attenuated expression of key extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins, fibronectin and collagen I, in activated CCD-18Co cells and HIMF. Interestingly, decreased expression of contractile and ECM proteins in Cdc42-depleted myofibroblasts was not due to downregulation of the TGF-β1 signaling, decreased mRNA transcription or increased lysosomal or proteasomal degradation of these proteins. Such suppressed pro-fibrotic activation of Cdc42-deficient CCD-18Co cells and HIMF involved a selective inhibition of protein translation due to inactivation of the AKT-mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling module. These findings highlight Cdc42 as a key regulator of intestinal fibrosis that controls mTOR activation to enhance ECM production and contractile actomyosin cytoskeleton in intestinal myofibroblasts.Zafar et al. unravel a novel role of Cdc42 small GTPase in fibrogenic activation of human intestinal myofibroblasts. Genetic and pharmacologic inhibition of Cdc42 markedly reduced TGF-β induced expression of contractile cytoskeletal proteins and extracellular matrix proteins in activated myofibroblasts. The mechanisms underlying such profibrotic activity of Cdc42 involve regulation of de novo protein translation via activation of the AKT-mTOR signaling module.Cdc42 regulates TGF-β dependent activation of human intestinal myofibroblastsProfibrotic activity of Cdc42 involves regulation of de novo protein translationCdc42 regulates myofibroblast activation via AKT-mTOR signaling pathwayTargeting Cdc42-Akt-mTOR signaling may facilitate the development of novel antifibrotic therapies.
Reliable biomarkers that predict therapeutic response remain a major unmet need in epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC), particularly for patients receiving neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT). Although high-throughput multi-omics technologies have accelerated biomarker discovery, the translation of candidate markers into clinically actionable predictors remains limited. Here, we developed an integrative multi-omics framework combining single-cell RNA sequencing, bulk transcriptomic profiling, and machine-learning-based modeling to identify biomarkers associated with chemotherapy response in EOC. Single-cell analyses were used to delineate cellular heterogeneity and intercellular communication landscapes before and after NACT, while bulk cohorts were leveraged to validate response-associated molecular signatures. Network-based and pathway analyses were applied to prioritize functionally relevant candidates. We identified integrin subunit alpha 1 (ITGA1) as a response-associated candidate with notable discriminatory performance for chemotherapy response and functional relevance in cisplatin-resistant ovarian cancer models. ITGA1-related signatures stratified patients by therapeutic response and were associated with immune and stress-response pathways, extracellular matrix signaling, and altered cell-cell communication patterns. Functional experiments showed that ITGA1 knockdown restored cisplatin sensitivity and suppressed clonogenic survival, migration, adhesion, and apoptosis evasion in resistant ovarian cancer cells. Together, our study supports ITGA1 as a response-discriminatory and functionally relevant biomarker candidate for chemotherapy response in EOC and highlights the value of integrating single-cell and bulk multi-omics data with machine-learning approaches. These findings provide a translational framework for patient stratification and experimental prioritization in ovarian cancer.© 2026 International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.
Diabetic cardiomyopathy (DCM) is one of the severe complications in type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) patients with impaired cardiac function and faster progression to heart failure due to systolic malfunction. It has been demonstrated that macrophage-mediated chronic inflammation is closely associated with DCM. Cell division cycle 42 (Cdc42) plays a crucial role in regulating the polarization, migration and phagocytosis of macrophages, however, the underlying mechanism of Cdc42 in DCM remains to be elucidated.Mouse DCM models with T1DM were generated using myeloid-specific Cdc42-knockout (Cdc42Mye) and Cdc42Flox/Flox (Cdc42Flox) male mice at 10-12 weeks old by injection of streptozotocin (STZ, 50 mg/kg/day) for 6 continuous days and then following the observation of 16 weeks. Cardiac functions were assessed by echocardiography in vivo, and cardiac morphological and histopathological alterations were evaluated by hematoxylin and eosin (HE), Masson's trichrome, Picrosirius red, and immunohistochemistry staining, respectively. The infiltration of myeloid macrophages was examined by multiplex immunofluorescence tyramide signal amplification (TSA) assay or Rosa mTmG fluorescent myeloid tracking reporter in mice. Macrophage pyroptosis, cardiomyocyte damage and myofibroblast activation were evaluated by Western blot and immunofluorescence analysis. Additionally, single-cell RNA-seq (scRNA-seq) data analysis was performed to explore macrophage-mediated signaling in DCM using publicly available GSE datasets from STZ-induced T1DM mice.Myeloid Cdc42 deletion exacerbated T1DM-induced cardiac dysfunctions and histopathological changes including cardiac fibrosis, and promoted T1DM-induced macrophage infiltration and M1 polarization of macrophages, and facilitated T1DM-induced pyroptosis by activating NLRP3 inflammasome in the hearts in mice. Notably, there were no significant differences between Cdc42Mye and Cdc42Flox mice under normal condition. In addition, gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) of scRNA-seq data indicated that low Cdc42 expression in macrophages was positively associated with the NF-κB signaling pathway in DCM. Mechanistically, we demonstrated that Cdc42 deficiency or inhibition aggravated T1DM-induced cardiomyocyte injury and cardiac fibrosis by activating ERK1/2-NF-κB-interleukin-1β signaling pathway-mediated macrophage pyroptosis.This study demonstrates that myeloid Cdc42 deficiency or inhibition aggravates T1DM-induced cardiomyocyte injury and cardiac fibrosis of DCM by promoting macrophage pyroptosis and inflammatory responses, which might provide a novel therapeutic target for immunomodulatory intervention in DCM of type 1 diabetes mellitus.© 2026. The Author(s).
RIP2 (receptor-interacting protein kinase 2) is an essential mediator of inflammation and innate immunity downstream of PRRs (pattern recognition receptors). It is reported that RIP2 is expressed on platelets, while its role in platelet activation, thrombosis, and myocardial infarction, and whether these effects are mediated through the PRR pathway, remains unknown.In vitro assays of platelet aggregation, dense and α-granule secretion, spreading, and clot retraction, along with an ex vivo microfluidic whole blood perfusion assay, and in vivo models of FeCl3-induced mesenteric arteriolar thrombosis and ischemia/reperfusion myocardial infarction, were used to assess the impact of RIP2 deficiency on platelet function. Immunoprecipitation followed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry was performed to elucidate the mechanism by which RIP2 limits dense granule secretion in platelets. Furthermore, RIP2 expression levels in platelets from healthy donors and patients with coronary artery disease were measured by Western blotting to evaluate their clinical relevance.Here, we show that RIP2 deficiency enhances platelet dense granule secretion in response to GPIb (platelet glycoprotein Ib) and GPVI (platelet glycoprotein VI) activation; platelet aggregation in whole blood and adhesion under arterial shear are also increased. Consistently, RIP2 inhibitor WEHI-345 potentiates human platelet dense granule secretion and inhibits RIP2 phosphorylation induced by thrombin and collagen. These phenotypes are translated into shorter bleeding time and accelerated FeCl3-induced arterial thrombosis. Importantly, platelets from patients with coronary artery disease and mice with atherosclerosis express lower RIP2, and RIP2 deficiency worsens myocardial infarction and cardiac function in a mouse ischemia/reperfusion model. Mechanistically, we found that platelets express DOCK8 (dedicator of cytogenesis protein 8), which is sequestered by p-RIP2 (phosphorylated RIP2), causing inhibition of Cdc42 (cell division cycle 42) activation and subsequent dense granule release.RIP2 restrains platelet activation and thrombosis, thereby mitigating myocardial infarction. We identify a novel PRR-independent pathway, p-RIP2-DOCK8-Cdc42, which suppresses dense granule release downstream of GPIb and GPVI. Targeting the platelet RIP2 pathway may offer a therapeutic strategy against atherothrombotic diseases from early atherosclerosis to arterial thrombosis and myocardial infarction.
Sepsis, a critical and life-threatening condition, is one of the most common causes of death among inpatients. Emerging evidence suggests that active metabolites derived from gut microbe-associated metabolism of dietary essential amino acid L-tryptophan (Trp) help the host in combating infectious diseases. This study aims to investigate the mechanisms through which these active metabolites regulate sepsis progression.The effects of dietary Trp and indole-3-pyruvate (IPyA) on the mouse septic model were evaluated by 72-hour survival rate monitoring, organ pathological injury score, bacterial load, and inflammatory factor expression. The changes in gut microbiota composition caused by dietary Trp were detected by 16S rRNA gene sequencing. The changes in Trp bacterial metabolites were detected by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). The effects of IPyA on macrophage phagocytosis were evaluated by flow cytometry and plate colony formation assay. The interaction between IPyA and G protein-coupled receptor 37 (GPR37) was evaluated by Western blot and surface plasmon resonance. Gpr37 knockout mice, small interfering RNA transfection in macrophages, and macrophage adoptive transfer assay were used to explore the detailed mechanism of IPyA in protecting sepsis.It is revealed that dietary Trp supplementation alleviated septic organ injury by modulating the abundance of key commensal microbes and their metabolic function. Furthermore, we found that GPR37 activation in macrophages by a key microbial metabolite, IPyA, raised after dietary Trp supplementation, protected the host against sepsis. Mechanistically, IPyA bound directly to GPR37 in macrophages, causing activation of small GTPases Ras-related C3 botulinum toxin substrate 1/Cell division cycle 42 (RAC1/CDC42) and increased expression of actin-related protein (Arp) 2/3, ultimately enhancing bacterial phagocytosis in macrophages. In addition, IPyA exhibited the potential to promote bacterial phagocytosis in macrophages obtained from patients.Targeting GPR37 through dietary Trp supplementation may be a potential prophylactic strategy to optimize gut microbiota metabolic functioning and ameliorate septic bacterial infections.Copyright © 2026 The Chinese Medical Association, produced by Wolters Kluwer, Inc. under the CC-BY-NC-ND license.
Background and Objectives: Aberrant activation or overexpression of cell division cycle 42 (Cdc42) has been demonstrated in various tumors; however, its prognostic relevance in colorectal cancer (CRC) remains insufficiently defined. Thus, we evaluated the prognostic impact of Cdc42 expression in patients with CRC. In a paired primary-metastasis subset, we also assessed the concordance of Cdc42 expression between primary tumors and matched metastatic tissues. Materials and Methods: Cdc42 expression was assessed by immunohistochemistry in patients with colorectal cancer who underwent colectomy for curative or palliative purposes between January 2009 and January 2019. Cdc42 expression was quantified as a staining index and then dichotomized into low- and high-Cdc42 groups using a median cutoff value of six. Overall survival (OS) was analyzed by Kaplan-Meier curves with log-rank testing, and independent prognostic factors were assessed using Cox proportional hazard models. Results: The study included 94 patients (median age, 60 years) with a median follow-up of 88.4 months. High Cdc42 expression was significantly associated with Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog (KRAS) wild-type status (p = 0.001), lymph node metastasis (p = 0.039), and perineural invasion (p = 0.021). Patients with high Cdc42 expression had significantly poorer OS than those with low expression (median OS: 48.5 months, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 33.3-63.7 vs. 114.4 months, 95% CI: 24.0-204.9; p = 0.003). In multivariable Cox regression, high Cdc42 expression remained an independent predictor of worse OS (hazard ratio [HR]: 2.365, 95% CI: 1.336-4.184; p = 0.003), together with advanced stage and moderate-to-poor differentiation. In the paired primary-metastasis subset, Cdc42 expression in primary tumors correlated positively with that in matched metastases (Spearman ρ = 0.416, p = 0.016), whereas no overall directional shift between paired primary and metastatic samples was observed (Wilcoxon signed-rank test: Z = 0.423, p = 0.672). Conclusions: High Cdc42 expression may serve as an adverse prognostic marker in CRC. Cdc42 shows moderate concordance between primary tumors and matched metastases without a consistent directional shift.
SUN1/2, core components of the linker of nucleoskeleton and cytoskeleton complex, transmit extracellular mechanical forces to nuclear lamina and chromatin. However, their role in regulating peripheral chromatin in mechanosensing and mechanoadaptation remains unclear. Using CRISPR/Cas9-mediated knockout of Sun1 or Sun2 in myoblasts, we identified a SUN1/2-dependent mechano-feedback loop. SUN1/2 depletion down-regulates genes for cell adhesion (e.g., integrin alpha-4) and for mechanotransduction (e.g., cell division cycle 42 and Ras homolog family member A). The primary mechanism involves redistribution of heterochromatin from nuclear periphery to the nucleoplasm and remodeling of lamina-associated domains (LADs), as an adaptive response to the loss of SUN proteins. Furthermore, lamin A/C acts as a key downstream effector, consistently modulating adhesion-related gene expression through the remodeling of LADs. Functionally, knockout of either Sun1/2 or Lmna aggravates differentiation defects in C2C12 myoblasts and abolishes adaptive responses to mechanical cues. This study provides proof of concept that nuclear mechanotransduction proteins can modulate cellular mechanoadaptation via a mechano-feedback loop, which coordinates LAD reorganization with the expression of upstream mechanotransduction genes.Copyright © 2026 Yafan Xie et al.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42142663 is a review article
Cadherin-17 (CDH17, LI-cadherin) is a non-classical cadherin with an atypical structure and unique functions. CDH17 expression is restricted to normal intestinal epithelium. Furthermore, CDH17 functions as an oncoprotein that promotes tumor migration and invasion in colorectal, gastric, and pancreatic cancers. Therefore, CDH17 is an important diagnostic marker and therapeutic target. The CDH17-directed strategies, including monoclonal antibodies (mAbs), bispecific Abs, antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs), and chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells, have been evaluated in preclinical and clinical studies. Therefore, developing mAbs that specifically recognize cell surface-expressing CDH17 is essential for advancing both tumor diagnosis and therapy.Anti-human CDH17 mAbs (named Ca17Mabs) were developed by immunizing a mouse with CDH17-overexpressed cells and a high-throughput screening using flow cytometry.Among Ca17Mabs, a clone, Ca17Mab-5 (IgG1, κ) specifically recognized CDH17-overexpressed Chinese hamster ovary-K1 (CHO/CDH17) cells with no detectable cross-reactivity to 21 other CDHs by flow cytometry. Ca17Mab-5 also detected endogenous CDH17 in human colorectal cancer cell lines, COLO201 and COLO205. The apparent dissociation constant (KD) values of Ca17Mab-5 for CHO/CDH17 and COLO205 were estimated as 1.5 × 10-8 M and 1.3 × 10-8 M, respectively. Furthermore, Ca17Mab-5 detected endogenous CDH17 by Western blotting. In immunohistochemistry, Ca17Mab-5 exhibited clear membranous staining in normal colon epithelium, colorectal, gastric, and pancreatic cancers.Ca17Mab-5 is a versatile tool for detecting CDH17 and has potential for tumor diagnosis.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42476270 is a review article
This study adopted an integrated strategy combining serum transitional component screening, network pharmacology prediction, and animal experiment verification to systematically explore the core active components and mechanism of action of Yinxing Yangnao Formula(YYF) in the treatment of vascular dementia(VD), aiming to provide solid experimental evidence for the modernization of this classical TCM prescription. With the use of ultra-high performance liquid chromatography-Orbitrap high-resolution mass spectrometry(UPLC-Orbitrap-HRMS), a total of 97 chemical components were identified from the YYF extract by combining accurate mass-to-charge ratio, characteristic fragmentation ions of MS/MS, comparison with reference standards, and matching with literature databases. Furthermore, 27 serum transitional components were captured through the analysis of YYF-containing serum from rats, which were inferred as the key material basis for the in vivo pharmacodynamic effects of YYF. The potential targets of the serum transitional components were predicted using the SwissTargetPrediction database, and VD-related disease targets were screened from authoritative databases including GeneCard, OMIM, and GEO with the keyword dementia vascular. A total of 275 common targets were obtained with the Jvenn online tool. The &quot;drug-component-target-disease&quot; network was constructed using Cytoscape 3.9.1 software, and core active components such as isoscopoletin, jaceosidin, catalpol, senkyunolide F, and bilobalide were screened out. The protein-protein interaction(PPI) network was constructed via the STRING database, identifying key regulatory targets including the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase family, sarcoma, protein tyrosine phosphatase, non-receptor type 11, Janus kinase 2, and protein tyrosine kinase 2. Gene Ontology(GO) functional enrichment and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes(KEGG) pathway analysis revealed that the core targets were mainly enriched in biological processes such as oxidative stress, neurological function, and immune and inflammatory responses, involving phosphoinositide 3-kinase-protein kinase B(PI3K-Akt), mitogen-activated protein kinase(MAPK), and Janus kinase-signal transducer and activator of transcription 3(JAK-STAT3) signaling pathways. Molecular docking results showed that bilobalide had a good binding effect with core targets. Verification experiments on VD rat models demonstrated that YYF might exert the therapeutic effect by alleviating oxidative stress through modulating the serum levels of superoxide dismutase(SOD), glutathione peroxidase(GSH-Px), and malondialdehyde(MDA). This study preliminarily clarified the material basis, pharmacological effects, and underlying mechanism of YYF in the treatment of VD, providing a direction and basis for subsequent research on the complete regulatory chain of &quot;drug-target-pathway-phenotype&quot;.
Cadherin-17 (CDH17) is a cell-adhesion molecule physiologically expressed along the intestinal epithelial tight junctions. Aberrant overexpression of CDH17 in gastrointestinal (GI) cancers promotes tumor growth and metastasis and is associated with poor patient prognosis. Due to its restricted expression in normal tissues and strong association with malignancy, CDH17 represents an emerging therapeutic target for GI tract cancers.A high-affinity anti-CDH17 monoclonal antibody (TAVO307) was generated and conjugated with auristatin-derived cytotoxic payloads to obtain CDH17-directed antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs). In parallel, a VHH antibody capable of activating γδ T cell receptors from both Vδ1 and Vδ2 subsets was identified and combined with the anti-CDH17 antibody to generate CDH17-targeted T cell engager (TCE) to recruit γδ T cells, which are abundant in the intestinal mucosa and play a critical role in tumor immunosurveillance. An attenuated interleukin-15 (IL-15) fused with the IL-15 receptor α sushi domain was further incorporated on TCE to enhance γδ T cell expansion and activation.CDH17-based ADCs exhibited potent and selective cytotoxicity in multiple GI cancer cell lines and significant tumor regression in xenograft models. The CDH17 γδ TCE induced tumor antigen-dependent γδ T cell degranulation and redirected both Vδ1 and Vδ2 T cells to effectively kill CDH17-expressing cancer cells. IL-15 fusion further augmented γδ T cell expansion and activation.Both CDH17-targeted ADCs and γδ TCEs demonstrated promising potency and efficacy to control GI cancers. They could offer complementary therapeutic options that could be used in combination therapy.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Chinese Antibody Society.
Macroautophagy/autophagy represents a promising therapeutic target in oncology, exhibiting context-dependent roles in tumor progression. Kinase inhibitors are a large group of anti-cancer drugs, and elucidating the regulatory effects of different kinase inhibitors on autophagy offers a valuable strategy to advance our understanding of autophagy regulation in cancer and develop innovative anti-cancer therapies. In this study, we developed a drug screening platform and performed high-content screening using a kinase inhibitor library. The screening identified PTK2/FAK (protein tyrosine kinase 2) inhibitors as potent autophagy inducers. Mechanistic investigations revealed that PTK2/FAK inhibition triggers rapid autophagic flux through a non-classical mechanism dependent on PTK2/FAK expression, which is associated with the spatial redistribution of ER exit sites (ERES). Further analysis demonstrated that PTK2/FAK inhibitor (FAKi)-induced ERES-associated autophagy is not contingent upon full PREB/SEC12 and SEC16 expression, but is sensitized to TMED9 expression level. Additionally, we identified AKAP13 as a novel FAKi-responsive protein that undergoes dephosphorylation upon FAKi treatment and contributes to TMED9-mediated ERES-associated autophagy. Given that ERES-associated autophagy is initiated through membrane contact between ERES and the ER-Golgi intermediate compartment (ERGIC), we further observed enhanced TMED9-ERGIC interactions following FAKi treatment. Furthermore, functional studies confirmed that FAKi-induced autophagy promotes pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) cell survival both in vitro and in vivo. Collectively, our work unveils a previously unrecognized mechanism of FAKi-mediated autophagy induction and provides new insights for developing targeted therapies against PDAC.Abbreviations: AKAP13: A-kinase anchoring protein 13; AMPK: AMP-activated protein kinase; BAF: bafilomycin A1; ECM: extracellular matrix; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; ERES: endoplasmic reticulum exit sites; ERGIC: ER-Golgi intermediate compartment; GSK: GSK2256098; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; PDAC: pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma; PI3K: phosphoinositide 3-kinase; PI4KB: phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase beta; PTK2/FAK: protein tyrosine kinase 2; TMED9: transmembrane p24 trafficking protein 9; ULK1: unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1.
Stroke remains a major cause of mortality and disability, highlighting the need for new therapeutic targets. This study aimed to systematically identify druggable genes causally associated with stroke risk using genetic and transcriptomic data. A total of 5883 druggable genes were compiled from the Drug-Gene Interaction Database and previous reviews. We integrated data from a large-scale stroke GWAS with blood and brain expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs) for druggable genes and performed a two-sample Mendelian randomization analysis using eQTLs as genetic instruments for gene expression. Significant findings were validated using colocalization analysis. Expression of prioritized genes was further examined in external bulk (GSE140275) and single-cell (GSE174574) RNA-seq datasets. Finally, protein-protein interaction networks and the Drug Signature Database were employed for downstream functional and therapeutic prediction. The intersection of eQTL data identified 3453 genes in blood and 3150 genes in brain tissues. Mendelian randomization analysis identified ten gene-stroke associations (3 in blood, 7 in brain). Colocalization analysis supported a shared causal variant for 5 of these genes, indicated by high posterior probability of hypothesis 4 values, suggesting potential pathogenic roles. The protein-protein interaction network highlighted 5 core druggable genes (protein tyrosine kinase 2, cyclin-dependent kinase 6, ring finger protein 43, papilin proteoglycan-like sulfated glycoprotein, and coagulation factor II) interacting with 20 predicted genes. Myosin light chain kinase inhibitor 7 and staurosporine were the 2 most significant compounds interacting with these genes, followed by simvastatin and cortisol succinate. This study uncovered potential stroke mechanisms and therapeutic targets using integrated multi-omics data, providing a foundation for future clinical applications and drug development strategies. Five druggable genes were identified in stroke (protein tyrosine kinase 2, cyclin-dependent kinase 6, ring finger protein 43, papilin proteoglycan-like sulfated glycoprotein, and coagulation factor II). Myosin light chain kinase inhibitor 7, staurosporine, simvastatin, and cortisol succinate were identified as potential drug candidates for stroke. These results could add additional tools to manage stroke.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Molecular targeted therapies play a crucial role in the management of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Lenvatinib is a standard targeted agent for advanced HCC, while quercetin has emerged as a promising natural compound with anti-HCC potential. This study investigates the combined effect of quercetin and lenvatinib on HCC.The human HCC cell line Huh7 and a nude mouse subcutaneous xenograft model were utilized. We evaluated cell proliferation, clonogenicity, invasion, migration, and apoptosis through Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), clonogenic, Transwell, and flow cytometry assays, respectively. Network pharmacology analysis was performed identify common targets. The protein expression levels of B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2), Bcl-2 associated X-protein (Bax), E-cadherin, N-cadherin, and protein tyrosine kinase 2 (PTK2) were assessed by Western blotting. In vivo experiments were conducted to validate the anti-tumor efficacy of the combination treatment.The combination of quercetin and lenvatinib significantly enhanced inhibition of Huh7 cell proliferation, colony formation, invasion, and migration (p < 0.01) and promoted apoptosis (p < 0.01) compared to individual treatments. Mechanistically, the combination treatment decreased the expression of Bcl-2 and N-cadherin while upregulating Bax and E-cadherin. PTK2 was identified as a key shared target, and the combination most effectively suppressed its protein expression. In vivo, the combination group demonstrated a higher tumor inhibition rate (p < 0.01) and a Combination Index (CDI) of 0.753.Quercetin significantly enhances the anti-tumor efficacy of lenvatinib, likely through synergistic inhibition of PTK2 expression.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathies (HSANs) are a group of recessive genetic disorders affecting the sensory and autonomic components of the peripheral nervous system (PNS). Compared with somatosensory dysfunctions, the pathogenesis of visceral dysfunction in HSANs remains understudied. This study investigated the neural circuit mechanisms underlying the arrhythmias observed in conditional Dystonin (Dst) gene-trap mice, an animal model of HSAN type VI (HSAN-VI) in which Cre recombinase inactivates Dst expression in selective neural circuits. Inactivation of the Dst gene in PNS neurons using Advillin-Cre caused the degeneration of sensory and sympathetic ganglionic neurons. This was accompanied by arrhythmia, characterized by increased heart rate variability and irregular pulse frequency, which was prominent under isoflurane anesthesia and occurred in the absence of protein aggregate cardiomyopathy. Furthermore, selective inactivation of the Dst gene in PNS sensory neurons using Vglut2-Cre resulted in similar dysregulation of cardiac rhythm. These findings suggest that arrhythmias caused by Dst mutations arise from the disruption of visceral afferent circuits, and that these neural circuits could be potential therapeutic targets for visceral dysfunction in HSAN-VI.Copyright © 2026 Yoshioka, Kurose, Tainaka, Ichiki, Tsuneoka, Funato, Ueno, Ohshima, Kageyama and Takebayashi.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42535383 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42530274 is a review article
The cell wall integrity (CWI) pathway is triggered by plasma membrane-localized receptors in plant cells and serves to orchestrate responses to cell wall damage by initiating compensatory changes under stressful environments. The essential role of CWI maintenance as part of plants' interactions with pests or pathogens and during growth is well known. Nevertheless, CWI pathways remain to be fully characterized. Here, we show that altered Integrin-Linked Kinase 1 (ILK1) expression causes widespread defects in the transcriptional program activated by the bacterial elicitor flg22, primarily in genes associated with cell wall integrity and immunity. These transcriptional deficiencies are recapitulated in mutant lines with altered ILK4 or ILK5 expression. Analysis of molecular and cellular defenses in ilk mutants revealed reduced callose accumulation in leaves treated with bacterial (elf18) and plant (pep1) elicitors and increased pathogen susceptibility. Histochemical analysis of cell-wall-associated staining across diverse cells and organs of ilk mutants revealed modified lignin-associated patterns in the root xylem and altered calcofluor staining patterns in the seed coat. All ilk mutants exhibited altered root morphology due to mechano-touch and high-NaCl stress. Based on these results, we propose that ILKs contribute to pathways connecting elicitor-triggered immune signaling with cell-wall-associated stress responses and that ILK-related defense functions may extend to the cotton root-nematode interaction, while the mechanism remains to be elucidated.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Ameloblastoma (AM) is a jaw tumor characterized by local invasiveness and a high recurrence rate. Integrin-linked Kinase (ILK) is an important signaling effector proposed as a promising target for cancer therapy. However, its specific role in AM remains poorly understood. This study aimed to investigate the role of ILK in the biological behavior of AM.ILK expression in AM was examined by Immunohistochemistry (IHC). The GSE132472 dataset from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database was used to analyze microarray data from AM patient tissues. Gene sets and pathways associated with ILK, as well as differentially expressed genes enriched in AM, were identified. The effects of the ILK inhibitor Cpd22 on AM cell proliferation, adhesion, and migration were assessed.AM tissues exhibited elevated ILK and integrin β1 expression and decreased E-cadherin expression, along with a trend towards the upregulation of ILK at the transcriptional level. Gene sets directly or indirectly related to ILK, including EMT, Extracellular Matrix (ECM) organization, integrin signaling, and focal adhesion, were closely associated with AM, while the PI3K-Akt signaling pathway was the most significantly upregulated in AM. Differentially expressed genes enriched in these pathways were involved in cell proliferation, adhesion, migration, and cytoskeletal regulation. In vitro experiments showed that Cpd22 significantly inhibited the adhesion and migration of AM cells.The study's findings reveal an inverse correlation between ILK and Ecadherin expression intensity in AM, consistent with observations in other malignancies. ILK may contribute to AM pathogenesis through coordinated interactions with focal adhesions, integrins, and the ECM. It is also involved in AM cell adhesion and migration without affecting proliferation and may also participate in Akt phosphorylation and cytoskeletal regulation in AM cells.The study's findings indicate that ILK plays a role in modulating the biological behavior of AM.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at epub@benthamscience.net.
Increased hepatic lipid accumulation occurs in high-fat diet (HFD)-induced insulin resistance. Integrin-linked kinase (ILK) contributes to HFD-induced hepatic insulin resistance by increasing hepatic triglyceride content. How ILK promotes HFD-induced hepatic fatty acid accumulation is underexplored. ILK favors the formation of F-actin bundling and is upregulated following HFD. Moreover, the fatty acid transporter CD36 localizes to membrane ruffles rich in F-actin following HFD. Thus, we investigated whether ILK-mediated F-actin stabilization and liver fatty acid uptake are mechanistically linked. HFD-fed mice lacking ILK in hepatocytes have reduced hepatic F-actin abundance, CD36 plasma membrane localization, and intracellular lipid accumulation. ILK-null cells treated with the F-actin stabilizer jasplakinolide increased cortical F-actin polymerization, plasma membrane-associated CD36, and intracellular lipid uptake. CD36 inhibition reduced lipid uptake in jasplakinolide-treated ILK-null cells, confirming that F-actin-induced CD36 plasma membrane localization promotes lipid accumulation. Thus, ILK regulates intracellular lipid transport by linking CD36 to an F-actin-rich cytoskeleton.© 2026 Published by Elsevier Inc.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42396861 is a review article
In this study, a dextran sulfate sodium(DSS)-induced chronic ulcerative colitis(UC) model was established in C57BL/6 mice, and the therapeutic effects of Wumei Wan were systematically investigated through histopathological evaluation, transcriptomics, proteomics, and molecular experiments. Mice were subjected to four cycles of 2.5% DSS for the modeling of chronic UC and then treated with mesalazine or different doses of Wumei Wan from the third cycle. Transcriptomics and proteomics analyses were conducted for the high-dose Wumei Wan group. The results showed that Wumei Wan markedly ameliorated the DSS-induced body weight loss, elevation of disease activity index(DAI), and colon shortening. Histological examination revealed attenuation of mucosal destruction, crypt injury, and inflammatory cell infiltration by Wumei Wan. Immunostaining showed that Wumei Wan decreased positive signals of F4/80 antigen(F4/80) and myeloperoxidase(MPO), indicating a clear anti-inflammatory effect. Transcriptomics analysis showed that Wumei Wan reversed widespread DSS-induced transcriptional abnormalities and inhibited multiple mucosal immune activation pathways, including inflammatory response pathways, chemokine signaling pathways, the interleukin-17(IL-17) signaling pathway, the tumor necrosis factor(TNF) signaling pathway, and the NOD-like receptor(NLR) signaling pathway. The proteomics analysis indicated that Wumei Wan mainly regulated immune responses, immune cell infiltration, and the intestinal immunoglobulin A(IgA) immune network, and significantly downregulated the number and expression intensity of ITGA4 and ITGB7 positive cells, thereby inhibiting the expression of integrin alpha-4 beta-7(α4β7). The results of qPCR, Western blot, and immunofluorescence assay consistently demonstrated reduced α4β7 expression, suggesting that Wumei Wan inhibited the α4β7-mucosal vascular addressin cell-adhesion molecule-1(MAdCAM-1) homing axis, thereby decreasing inflammatory cell infiltration, restoring mucosal immune homeostasis, and alleviating barrier injury. In conclusion, Wumei Wan effectively alleviates UC-associated inflammation and mucosal injury through multi-pathway and multi-target regulation. Its core mechanisms involve suppressing inflammatory cascades, modulating the IgA immune network, and downregulating integrin α4β7. The findings provide comprehensive modern pharmacological evidence for deciphering the therapeutic potential of Wumei Wan for UC.
Integrin-linked kinase (ILK) and kindlin-2 (K2) are key components of focal adhesions (FAs) that regulate cell-matrix adhesion and integrin signaling. Both proteins directly bind each other, but how they influence each other's localization to FAs and binding to integrins remains a subject of ongoing debate. Here, we establish a sensitive workflow to study protein-protein interactions in cells by combining methods from biochemistry, cell biology, and superresolution microscopy. Together with an analytical framework, this approach allowed us to distinguish direct from indirect molecular interactions and construct detailed interaction networks. Disrupting the ILK-K2 interaction reduced ILK localization to FAs and compromised integrin function, whereas K2 recruitment was unaffected. Our interdisciplinary approach also revealed that ILK does not directly bind β1-integrin cytosolic domains in vitro and in cells. Instead, ILK was recruited to integrins exclusively through a K2-dependent mechanism, primarily via K2 bridging ILK and β1 integrins. These findings define the hierarchical relationship between ILK and K2 in FAs and highlight the essential role of K2-mediated ILK recruitment for integrin adhesion and signaling.
Pan-neddylation inhibitors exhibit potent hypoglycemic effect. The target organs and mechanisms underlying the hypoglycemia effect of pan-neddylation inhibitors are incompletely understood. We found that inhibition of cullin 3 leads to a dual insulin sensitization and insulinotropic effect. Selective inhibition of cullin 3 neddylation is a feasible approach to lower hyperglycemia.© 2026 by the American Diabetes Association.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42494121 is a review article
Speckle-type POZ protein (SPOP), a substrate receptor for the Cullin-3-RING (CRL3) ubiquitin ligase, is mutated in different cancers. Both activating and inactivating mutations in SPOP drive oncogenesis, underscoring the need for precise regulation. Among substrate receptors, SPOP uniquely assembles into filaments that are multivalent for substrate binding. Conversely, many substrates contain multiple SPOP-binding motifs. How this unusual reciprocal multivalent architecture regulates ubiquitination and how mutations activate SPOP are unclear. Gain-of-function mechanisms are also generally poorly understood. Here, we reveal that SPOP assemblies exist in an equilibrium between an active filament and a large, autoinhibited, circular "double-donut" state. Activating mutations shift the equilibrium, resulting in aberrant substrate turnover. Combinations of activating and inactivating mutations can produce intermediate activities, thus uncovering a tunable regulatory axis with implications for targeted cancer therapies. Therefore, SPOP's ability to assemble into long filaments is required for its regulation in human cells and underlies a gain-of-function mechanism.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the major global health challenge. As a newly discovered molecular mechanism, ferroptosis offers great potential to eliminate cancer cells. This study identified KLHL18 (Kelch-like Protein 18), an understudied adaptor of the Cullin3 E3 ubiquitin ligase complex, as a tumor suppressor in HCC. We demonstrated that KLHL18 was downregulated in HCC tissues and that its overexpression suppressed tumor growth both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, KLHL18 promotes ferroptosis by interacting with GPX4, a key glutathione peroxidase that prevents lipid peroxidation, and promoting GPX4 ubiquitination, leading to proteasomal degradation. This proteasomal degradation is associated with K48-linked ubiquitination, with lysine 191 of GPX4 identified as a major ubiquitination site. Furthermore, KLHL18 expression modulated ferroptotic and antitumor responses of HCC cells to sorafenib. Our findings reveal a novel regulatory axis in which KLHL18-mediated GPX4 degradation contributes to ferroptotic cell death and suppresses HCC progression, suggesting that KLHL18 is a potential biomarker and molecular target warranting further clinical investigation.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Retinopathy of prematurity (ROP)-associated vision loss is driven by pathological retinal angiogenesis. Current therapies suppress neovascularization but do not fully restore vascular integrity or prevent long-term visual deficit. Activation of the sigma-1 receptor (Sig1R) has been reported to confer neuroprotection, yet its role in retinal vascular protection remains largely unexplored. Here, we investigated whether Sig1R activation confers vascular protection in experimental ROP.The oxygen-induced retinopathy (OIR) mouse model was induced in wild-type and Sig1R-/- mice with or without systemic (+)-pentazocine ([+]-PTZ) administration to activate Sig1R. Retinal vascular pathology, barrier integrity, and avascular areas were evaluated by fluorescein angiography and retinal flatmount analysis. Molecular changes in metabolic, oxidative, and inflammatory pathways were assessed by immunostaining/blotting and ELISA assay.Sig1R expression was reduced in OIR retinas, accompanied by decreased cullin-3 ubiquitin ligase (Cul3) and phosphorylated AMP-activated protein kinase (pAMPK) and increased pAkt and endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS), indicative of metabolic and endothelial stress. Activation of Sig1R with (+)-PTZ restored Sig1R, Cul3, and pAMPK levels, suppressed pAkt/eNOS signaling, reduced oxidative stress, and attenuated Müller glial activation. OIR-induced upregulation of phosphorylated signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (p-STAT3) and pro-angiogenic/inflammatory mediators, including vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), IL-6, TNF-α, macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF), vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 (VCAM-1), and tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNFR), were markedly reduced by (+)-PTZ. Functionally, Sig1R activation improved retinal vascular barrier integrity, reduced arterial tortuosity and pathological neovascularization, and promoted revascularization of avascular retina. Importantly, (+)-PTZ treatment failed to confer any vascular benefit in Sig1R-/- mice, confirming that these vascular benefits are Sig1R dependent.Sig1R activation preserves vascular integrity and suppresses pathological angiogenesis in OIR. Together with known neuroprotective effects, Sig1R represents a promising dual neurovascular therapeutic target for ROP.
Kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1 (Keap1) acts as a repressor of nuclear factor-erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2), a major transcription factor regulating cellular antioxidant response. Keap1 is the substrate adaptor subunit of the cullin 3-RING E3 ubiquitin ligase complex that specifically facilitates Nrf2 ubiquitination and its proteasomal degradation. Keap1 is rich in cysteine residues, and several of them undergo various modifications, such as sulphydration, nitrosylation and glutathionylation under cellular stress conditions. Some of these modifications alter the conformation of Keap1, preventing Nrf2 from ubiquitination and subsequent proteasome-mediated degradation. As a result, newly synthesised Nrf2 translocates to the nucleus to induce the expression of diverse genes involved in protecting cells against oxidative stress. Protein CoAlation is a reversible redox-dependent post-translational modification (PTM) in which coenzyme A (CoA) forms disulphide bonds with oxidised cysteine residues under oxidative or metabolic stress. In this study, we demonstrate for the first time that disulphide Keap1 dimer undergoes CoAlation in cellular response to oxidative stress induced by various oxidising compounds. Furthermore, glucose deprivation also induces CoAlation of the disulphide Keap1 dimer in HEK293/Pank1β cells. We also demonstrate that the Keap111 Cys-less mutant is not CoAlated in response to diamide treatment or glucose deprivation. In summary, this study uncovers a novel PTM of Keap1 by the key metabolic integrator CoA, which provides new insights into the regulation of the Keap1-Nrf2 antioxidant pathway under oxidative and metabolic stress.
Thyroid cancer (TC) is the most common malignant tumor of the endocrine system, and its incidence has increased annually. Although TC generally has a favorable prognosis, some patients experience recurrence after treatment. Therefore, understanding the pathogenic mechanisms of TC is crucial for improving its treatment. It was hypothesized that ITGA7 suppresses TC by binding to FN1 and inhibiting the PI3K/AKT pathway. This study aimed to test this hypothesis and elucidate the underlying mechanism.Expression of Integrin Subunit Alpha 7 (ITGA7) and Fibronectin 1 (FN1) was evaluated in paired samples of normal thyroid and TC tissues via reverse transcription quantitative real-time PCR (RT-qPCR) and immunohistochemistry (IHC). ITGA7 and FN1 mRNA and protein levels were further assessed using RT-qPCR and Western blot analysis. Functional assays included Cell Counting Kit-8 for cell viability, 5-Ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU) incorporation for proliferation, Transwell for migration and invasion, and flow cytometry for apoptosis. Protein interaction and co-localization between ITGA7 and FN1 were confirmed through co-immunoprecipitation and immunofluorescence (IF). Western blot was used to examine Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Protein Kinase B (PI3K/AKT) signaling pathway components, and IHC was applied to assess related protein expression in clinical specimens. A xenograft model in nude mice was established to investigate the role of ITGA7 in tumor growth in vivo. Bioinformatics tools including STRING and GEPIA were utilized to predict potential interactions involving ITGA7.RT-qPCR and IHC revealed decreased ITGA7 expression in TC compared to adjacent normal tissues. Consistent downregulation was observed at both mRNA and protein levels in TC cell lines. Functional loss-of-function experiments showed that ITGA7 knockdown enhanced viability, proliferation, migration, and invasion, and suppressed apoptosis. FN1 was identified as an ITGA7-binding partner with negatively correlated expression. FN1 was upregulated in TC tissues, and its silencing impeded malignant phenotypes including proliferation and migration, while promoting apoptosis. The protein interaction and co-localization between ITGA7 and FN1 were experimentally validated. Western blot analysis demonstrated that silencing ITGA7 upregulated FN1 and activated the PI3K/AKT pathway. Conversely, FN1 knockdown suppressed pathway activity. In vivo studies confirmed that ITGA7 suppressed tumor progression by inhibiting the FN1-mediated activation of the PI3K/AKT pathway. Rescue assays demonstrated that FN1 depletion counteracted the oncogenic effects of ITGA7 silencing.The expression of ITGA7 in TC tissues and cells was significantly lower than that in normal tissues and cells. ITGA7 inhibits TC progression by interacting with FN1 and suppressing PI3K/AKT signaling pathway activation.© 2026. The Author(s).
It is well established that the early stage of mechanical unloading in both humans and animals is characterized by a decline in the activity of the key cellular energy sensor, AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). This decline triggers signaling pathways that drive myosin phenotype remodeling and muscle atrophy. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the reduction in AMPK activity under these conditions remain poorly understood. We hypothesized that elevated activity of protein kinase D1 (PKD1) could contribute to the decline in AMPK activity during the initial stage of rat hindlimb unloading. The present study demonstrates that the suppression of upregulated PKD1 activity via a specific inhibitor (CRT0066101) during 24-hour unloading results in the restoration of AMPK activity in the rat soleus muscle. Thus, we have shown for the first time the contribution of PKD1 to the regulation of AMPK activity in the mammalian postural muscle during the initial stage of hindlimb unloading.© 2026. Pleiades Publishing, Ltd.
Heat stroke causes life-threatening systemic inflammation and multiorgan injury, but the intracellular mechanisms that sustain inflammatory amplification after heat exposure remain unclear. Here, using heat stroke mouse models, genetic NLRP3 deletion, pharmacological inhibition, myeloid-specific NLRP3 deficiency, macrophage depletion, and heat-stressed macrophage systems, we show that tissue macrophage NLRP3 inflammasome activation is a central driver of interleukin-1β/interleukin-18 release, organ injury, and mortality. Mechanistically, heat stroke enhances phospholipase C delta 4 signaling, promotes diacylglycerol accumulation at trans-Golgi network/Golgi-associated membranes, recruits protein kinase D1, and increases phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase β-dependent phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate production. This lipid remodeling supports NLRP3 recruitment, ASC speck formation, caspase-1 activation, and inflammatory cytokine release. Phospholipase C delta 4 knockdown preferentially suppresses NLRP3 activation induced by heat stroke, but not by canonical stimuli. These findings link heat stroke to membrane lipid remodeling and spatial inflammasome assembly, identifying a potential organ-protective pathway in heat stroke.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Aim: To find out if a CALLY index and zyxin can be used as new, easy-to-find, and low-cost biomarkers for finding and classifying T2DM people who are more likely to have heart problems like an AMI or stroke early on.Materials and Methods: A total of 60 T2DM patients (30 male and 30 female), along with 30 healthy controls matched by age and BMI between patients and controls. Various biochemical and inflammatory markers were assessed using ELISA and colorimetric methods. Lipid profiles and atherogenic indices such as CALLY index, metabolic inflammatory index (MII), AIP, CRI-I, and CRI-II index were also calculated.Results: Results revealed that T2DM patients had significantly higher glucose levels, dyslipidemia, atherogenic indices while decreased zyxin. There was a significant increase in CRP and MII but lymphocyte counts and CALLY index were reduced. Receiver operation characterization (ROC) curve analysis showed that zyxin and CALLY index were the most effective markers for diagnosing cardiovascular risk in T2DM.Conclusions: T2DM is associated with significant cardiometabolic disturbances characterized by dyslipidemia, chronic inflammation, immune imbalance, and structural protein alterations that increase cardiovascular risk. The significant elevation of MII in T2DM patients (p < 0.001), together with reduced zyxin and CALLY index levels, highlights enhanced metabolic and inflammatory stress contributing to endothelial dysfunction and cardiovascular complications. These findings support the potential use of MII, zyxin, and the CALLY index as simple and cost-effective biomarkers for early cardiovascular risk assessment in patients with T2DM.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42332029 is a review article
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a neurodevelopmental condition characterized by social communication deficits, restricted interests, and repetitive behaviors. Emerging evidence links several autism susceptibility genes to the nonsense-mediated decay (NMD) pathway, which maintains the homeostasis of gene transcription and protein translation in the nervous system. However, the role of Suppressor with morphogenetic effect on genitalia 7 (Smg7), an essential NMD factor, in brain function and ASD remains largely unknown. Here, we generated an Emx1-Cre-mediated conditional Smg7 knockout (Smg7cko) mouse model to investigate its neurological consequences. We found that both male and female Smg7cko mice exhibited autism-like behaviors, including impaired social interaction and communication, repetitive behaviors, anxiety-like traits, and learning and memory deficits. These phenotypes were accompanied by neuronal hyperexcitability and increased dendritic spine density in layer II/III pyramidal neurons of the hippocampus and the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). Notably, Smg7 deletion led to pronounced upregulation of Protein Kinase D1 (PKD1) transcripts, an NMD target, in these brain regions. Strikingly, adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated PKD1 knockdown (AAVsh-PKD1) in the hippocampus and mPFC significantly rescued social deficits in Smg7-deficient mice. Together, these findings identify Smg7 as a key regulator of neuronal function and behavior, and reveal PKD1 upregulation as a pathogenic mechanism underlying ASD-like phenotypes, providing new insight into NMD deficiency in ASD pathophysiology and a potential therapeutic target.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Guarantors of Brain. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a lethal interstitial lung disease with poorly understood pathogenesis. Here, we identify reduced lysine β-hydroxybutyrylation (Kbhb) of the focal adhesion protein Zyxin in bleomycin (BLM)-induced pulmonary fibrosis in mice. In a BLM-induced mouse model, we observe a significant reduction in lung tissue Kbhb levels, while β-hydroxybutyrate (β-OHB) supplementation restores Kbhb modification, there by mitigating fibrosis. Transcriptome profiling suggests that β-OHB exerts anti-fibrotic effects by modulating the PI3K/AKT pathway. Proteomic analysis further reveals a decrease in Kbhb modification at the K263 site of Zyxin in IPF mice. In vivo experiments demonstrate that Zyxin knockout or β-OHB treatment markedly alleviates fibrotic pathology and reduces collagen deposition as well as mouse mortality. This study is the first to elucidate the mechanism by which Zyxin Kbhb modification suppresses pulmonary fibrosis via the PI3K/AKT pathway, offering a novel metabolic modification-based therapeutic strategy for IPF.© 2026. The Author(s).
Background/Objectives: Yes-associated protein 1 (YAP1) is a transcriptional cofactor that coordinates the complex interplay between cell proliferation, survival, differentiation, metabolism, biomechanics, and tissue regeneration. Previous studies have shown that YAP1 activity is reduced during aging, and replacing YAP1 function has been shown to rejuvenate old cells by mitigating senescence and its associated inflammation. Methods: As YAP1 is now confirmed to exert a profound regenerative influence on multiple organs, we wanted to gain more insight into the molecular signature of YAP1 expression relevant to brain cells. Since proteomics is a very powerful tool for discoveries, we generated SH-SY5Y cells stably expressing GFP-YAP1 and screened 8000 human proteins using multiplex arrays that utilize biotin-label-based antibody arrays. Results: We found YAP1 expression in astrocytes, microglia, neuronal and neuroblastoma cell lines, as well as human neurons. Importantly, YAP1 protein levels were significantly reduced selectively in the nuclear fractions of the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) relative to normal control (NC) subjects. The screen resulted in the identification of 283 differentially expressed proteins. In line with YAP1's known role in the regulation of actin and cytoskeleton, we found a 2.53-fold upregulated level of Rho guanine nucleotide exchange factor 1 (ARHGEF1), a guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) for the RhoA GTPase, which is crucial for dendritic spine regulation. A 6.19-fold upregulated level of NECAP endocytosis-associated 2 (NECAP2), the highest known increase for any protein in this screen, plays an essential role in clathrin-mediated endocytosis. Most importantly, another upregulated protein was Neudesin Neurotrophic Factor (NENF) (3.07-fold increase), also known as Neudesin, which primarily acts as a neurotrophic factor, and it promotes neuronal survival, enhances cell proliferation, and neurogenesis in neural progenitor cells. Neural Precursor Cell Expressed, Developmentally Down-Regulated 9(NEDD9) levels were also upregulated by 2.46-fold, and it affects neuronal cell number and synaptic connections through its role in neurite formation. However, it should be noted that these proteomic results are preliminary in nature as they are derived from single-sample data. The upregulated levels of ARHGEF1 and NEDD9 were confirmed by immunoblots. We also found a drastic reduction in the levels of p16INK4a, a marker of senescence. Conclusions: Thus, the anti-senescence effect of YAP1 may be mediated through p16INK4a, which in turn may be crucial for YAP1's regenerative functions through NENF and NEDD9.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42186337
Podocyte injury and detachment are early cellular events in hypertensive nephropathy, yet their underlying mechanisms are not well clarified. Zyxin, a mechanotransducer located at focal adhesions, regulates actin cytoskeleton remodeling and exhibits diverse biological functions. However, its role in podocytes is poorly understood. In this study, we constructed a hypertensive nephropathy model in podocyte-specific zyxin knockout mice to explore the role of zyxin in hypertensive conditions. In vitro, mechanical stretch and Angiotensin II (AngII) were used to stimulate podocytes. Western blot, real-time PCR, and immunofluorescence were performed to underscore underlying mechanisms. We identified decreased zyxin levels in the glomeruli of a hypertensive nephropathy mouse model. Mechanical stretch and AngII altered zyxin expression and distribution in podocytes. Moreover, podocyte-specific zyxin knockout worsened hypertension-induced renal dysfunction, glomerulosclerosis, glomerular basement membrane thickening, foot process effacement, and podocyte loss. Zyxin knockdown disrupted the actin cytoskeleton, accompanied by reduced α-actinin-4 expression and changes in focal adhesion proteins, including vinculin and paxillin, which may contribute to altered podocyte motility and adhesion. These findings indicate that zyxin is involved in the regulation of podocyte cytoskeletal organization and cell behavior, likely through coordinated effects on multiple cytoskeletal and focal adhesion-related pathways rather than a single downstream mediator. In this context, zyxin may play a protective role in maintaining podocyte stability during hypertensive nephropathy.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Endothelial cells express numerous microproteins (miPs) encoded by small open reading frames (smORFs), yet the biological function of most remains unknown. This study set out to characterize a novel 69 amino acid miP encoded within the FERM domain containing kindlin-3 transcript (miP-FERMT3), which is upregulated under inflammatory conditions.Confocal microscopy was used to determine miP-FERMT3 localization, and its interaction partners were determined by mass spectrometry and immunoblotting. RNA sequencing and quantitative mass spectrometry were performed to assess transcriptional and proteomic alterations. Cell proliferation and cell cycle progression were examined by live cell imaging, EdU incorporation and flow cytometry, while senescence was determined by β-galactosidase staining, live cell imaging and RT-qPCR-based analysis of telomere length.In endothelial cells, miP-FERMT3 localized mainly to centriole subdistal appendages, where it colocalized with ninein and CEP170 and induced centrosome amplification. The expression of miP-FERMT3 caused cell cycle arrest and DNA damage, evidenced by γ-H2AX foci and nuclear p53 accumulation. Consistent with this, miP-FERMT3-expressing endothelial cells exhibited downregulation of genes required for cell-cycle progression and upregulation of genes involved in cell cycle inhibition and senescence. However, canonical p53 target genes were not induced and cell cycle arrest occurred independently of p53. Mechanistically, miP-FERMT3 interacted with proteins involved in ubiquitin/proteasome-dependent protein catabolism, including PSMD9, CUL2 and TRIM8, and its expression increased protein ubiquitination, centrosomal neddylation and proteasomal activity. Notably, enhanced proteasomal turnover of p21 in miP-FERMT3-expressing endothelial cells resulted in replication stress, as evidenced by increased CHK1 phosphorylation. These alterations culminated in rapid induction of cellular senescence, characterized by enlarged cell size, β-galactosidase activity, telomere shortening and a paracrine pro-inflammatory activation of naïve endothelial cells. Analyses of independent murine and human transcriptomic and proteomic aging datasets further revealed that FERMT3 expression and protein abundance increase with age.miP-FERMT3 is a novel regulator of protein catabolism that promotes p21 degradation, replication stress and p53-independent cell cycle arrest and senescence in endothelial cells. Given the aging-associated upregulation of FERMT3 in mouse and human endothelial cells, increased miP-FERMT3 expression may contribute to the onset of vascular senescence as a hallmark of aging.© 2026. The Author(s).
Autosomal Dominant Polycystic Kidney Disease is the most common genetic cause of kidney failure. Outcome prediction is essential to guide therapeutic decisions. However, currently available models are of limited accuracy. We aimed to examine the potential of serum proteomics for improved risk stratification. Here we show that 29 proteins are significantly associated with yearly kidney function decline. Functional enrichment on these 29 proteins reveals GO:BP terms related to immune response, lipoproteins and metabolic processes. A comparison to an Immunoglobulin A nephropathy cohort provides information regarding the eGFR-dependency and disease specificity of these proteins. The final outcome prediction model (adjusted R² 0.31) contains six proteins, namely Endothelial Plasminogen Activator Inhibitor (SERPINF1), Glutathione Peroxidase 3 (GPX3), Afamin (AFM), FERM Domain Containing Kindlin-3 (FERMT3), Complement Factor H Related 1 (CFHR1), and Retinoic Acid Receptor Responder 2 (RARRES2), the predictive value of which is independent from the clinical and imaging parameters currently used in clinical care. The validation of these models in different cohorts indicates the accuracy of the models. It will now be important to move towards targeted validation in a prospective study.© 2025. The Author(s).
Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is an incurable neurological disease. Microglia activation and its related inflammation contribute to ICH-associated brain damage. FERM domain containing kindlin 1 (FERMT1) is an integrin-binding protein that participates in microglia-associated inflammation, but its role in ICH is unclear. An ICH model was constructed by injecting 50 µl of autologous blood into the bregma of rats. FERMT1 siRNA was injected into the right ventricle of the rat for knockdown of FERMT1. A significant striatal hematoma was observed in ICH rats. FERMT1 knockdown reduced the water content of brain tissue, alleviated brain hematoma and improved behavioral function in ICH rats. FERMT1 knockdown reduced microglia activity, inhibited NLR family pyrin domain containing 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome activity and decreased the expression of inflammatory factors including IL-1β and IL-18 in the peri-hematoma tissues. BV2 microglial cells were transfected with FERMT1 siRNA and incubated with 60 µM Hemin for 24 h. Activation of NLRP3 inflammasome induced by hemin were reduced in microglia when FERMT1 was knocked down, leading to decreased production of inflammatory factors IL-1β and IL-18. In addition, knockdown of FERMT1 prevented the activation of nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) signaling pathway in vivo and in vitro. Our findings suggested that down-regulation of FERMT1 attenuated microglial inflammation and brain damage induced by ICH via NLRP3/NF-κB pathway. FERMT1 is a key regulator of inflammatory damage in rats after ICH.
Programmed cell death factor 10 (PDCD10) is associated with intercellular junction, cytoskeleton organization, cell proliferation, apoptosis, exocytosis, and angiogenesis. However, the role of PDCD10 in human cancer is unclear. This study aims to explore the role of PDCD10 in various tumors and its possible mechanism through bioinformatics analysis.We verified the expression of the PDCD10 gene based on data from the ONCOMINE, TIMER2.0, and TISDB databases. The correlation of PDCD10 with prognosis of patients with different tumors was analyzed using data from the GEPIA2 database. Proteins bound to PDCD10 were analyzed from the STRING database. PDCD10, PDCD10-binding proteins, and associated candidate genes were analyzed in DAVID for functional and pathway analyses. We also evaluated the immunological, clinical, and genetic aspects of distinct cancers by using TIMER2.0 and the connection between PDCD10 expression and tumor immune subtypes by using TISDB. Single-cell sequencing data from the CancerSEA database were used to characterize cancer cell functional states and generate heat maps.PDCD10 overexpression is linked to certain molecular subtypes of human cancer. Low PDCD10 expression in patients with bladder urothelial carcinoma (BLCA), lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD), liver hepatocellular carcinoma (LIHC), adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC), head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSC), kidney chromophobe carcinoma (KICH), brain lower grade glioma (LGG), pancreatic adenocarcinoma (PAAD), uterine corpus endometrial carcinoma (UCEC), oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC), and esophageal adenocarcinoma (ESAD) was correlated with favorable OS, whereas high PDCD10 expression in patients with LUSC, KIRC, READ, SKCM, and THYM was correlated with good prognosis. STRING network prediction results showed that 20 proteins, namely, paxillin (PXN), CCM2 scaffold protein (CCM2), TRAF3 interacting protein 3 (TRAF3IP3), FGFR1 oncogene partner 2 (FGFR1OP2), chromosome 4 open reading frame 19 (C4orf19), suppressor of IKBKE 1 (SIKE1), serine/threonine kinase 25 (STK25), striatin (STRN), protein phosphatase 2 catalytic subunit alpha (PPP2CA), mammalian sterile-20-like kinase 4 (MST4), MOB family member 4 (MOB4), protein phosphatase 2 scaffold subunit Abeta (PPP2R1B), sarcolemma-associated protein (SLMAP), serine/threonine kinase 24 (STK24), striatin 4 (STRN4), STRN3, protein phosphatase 2 scaffold subunit A alpha (PPP2R1A), striatin interacting protein 1 (STRIP1), CTTNBP2 N-terminal like (CTTNBP2NL), and cortactin binding protein 2 (CTTNBP2), can bind to PDCD10. Gene enrichment analysis suggested that PDCD10 is involved in the occurrence of different tumors through the Hippo signalling pathway, RNA transport, mRNA monitoring pathway, endocytosis, and T cell receptor signalling pathway. An inverse relationship was found between PDCD10 expression and cancer-associated fibroblasts in LUSC and TGCT, and PDCD10 expression was strongly connected with immunological subtypes, such as C1 (wound healing), C2 (interferon-gamma dominant), C3 (inflammation), C4 (lymphocyte depletion), C5 (immune silenced), and C6 (TGF-beta dominant). Finally, analysis of single-cell sequencing data revealed that PDCD10 expression is linked to epigenetic reprogramming, DNA repair, cell cycle progression, cell differentiation, inflammation, cell proliferation, cell differentiation, cell invasion, and angiogenesis.The results of our investigation demonstrate that PDCD10 has an oncogenic function in many cancer types. This study provides a reference for future research on antitumor therapeutic targets.Copyright © 2022 Ning Sun et al.
Kidney transplantation (KT) has surpassed dialysis as the optimal therapy for end-stage kidney disease. Yet, most patients could suffer from a slow but continuous deterioration of kidney function leading to graft loss mostly due to chronic allograft nephropathy (CAN) after KT. The dysregulated gene expression for CAN is still poorly understood.To explore the pathogenesis of genomics in CAN, we analyzed the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) of kidney transcriptome between CAN and nonrejecting patients by downloading gene expression microarrays from the Gene Expression Omnibus database. Then, we used weighted gene coexpression network analysis (WGCNA) to analyze the coexpression of DEGs to explore key modules, hub genes, and transcription factors in CAN. Functional enrichment analysis of key modules was performed to explore pathogenesis. ROC curve analysis was used to validate hub genes.As a result, 3 key modules and 15 hub genes were identified by WGCNA analysis. Three key modules had 21 mutual Gene Ontology term enrichment functions. Extracellular structure organization, extracellular matrix organization, and extracellular region were identified as significant functions in CAN. Furthermore, transcription factor 12 was identified as the key transcription factor regulating key modules. All 15 hub genes, Yip1 interacting factor homolog B, membrane trafficking protein, toll like receptor 8, neutrophil cytosolic factor 4, glutathione peroxidase 8, mesenteric estrogen dependent adipogenesis, decorin, serpin family F member 1, integrin subunit beta like 1, SRY-box transcription factor 15, trophinin associated protein, SRY-box transcription factor 1, metallothionein 3, lysosomal protein transmembrane, FERM domain containing kindlin 3, and cathepsin S, had a great diagnostic performance (AUC > 0.7).This study updates information and provides a new perspective for understanding the pathogenesis of CAN by bioinformatics means. More research is needed to validate and explore the results we have found to reveal the mechanisms underlying CAN.© 2022 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Zinc-finger protein 304 (ZNF304) plays a critical role in silencing genes through transcription, regulating cell survival, proliferation, apoptosis, and differentiation during development. However, the roles of transcription factor ZNF304 and its clinical significance in clear cell renal carcinoma (ccRCC) remain unclear. In this study, we found that the expression of ZNF304 was downregulated in ccRCC tissues. Lower levels of ZNF304 were correlated with poor survival. Downregulation of ZNF304 promoted ccRCC cell growth in vitro, whereas overexpression of ZNF304 inhibited growth. Our results indicated that miR-183-5p/FOXO4 mediated ZNF304 regulation of cell growth. Interestingly, we revealed that ZNF304 promoted FOXO4 expression in ccRCC cells. Mechanistically, ZNF304 binds to miR-183 promoter and inhibits miR-183-5p transcription. Furthermore, the expression of miR-183-5p wes increased in ccRCC tissues, and the upregulation of miR-183-5p was related to the poor prognosis of ccRCC patients. miR-183-5p upregulation repressed the expression of FOXO4 and promoted ccRCC progression. These results demonstrated that ZNF304/miR-183-5p/FOXO4 axis played essential role in promoting ccRCC progression, which suggests that disruption of this axis may be a potential therapeutic target in ccRCC.Copyright © 2021 Ren, Zeng, Zhu, Zhao, Shi, Zhang, Wang, Gu and Yang.
CD24 promotes prostate cancer progression and metastasis by disrupting the ARF-NPM interaction and impairing p53 signaling. However, the mechanisms underlying CD24-driven metastasis remain unclear. This study identifies a novel interaction between CD24 and Regulator of Chromosome Condensation 2 (RCC2), a protein involved in cell proliferation and migration. IHC analysis of prostate adenocarcinoma samples showed frequent coexpression of CD24 (49%) and RCC2 (82%) with a positive correlation between coexpression of CD24 (49%) and RCC2 (82%). Functional assays revealed complex roles: RCC2 KO suppressed proliferation but increased migration and invasion, while CD24 KO reduced both proliferation and migration. Dual KO of CD24 and RCC2 further inhibited proliferation but had varied effects on migration. In mouse xenografts, RCC2 KO increased lung metastasis without significantly affecting primary tumor growth, while CD24 KO reduced both tumor growth and metastasis. Mechanistically, RCC2 controls migration by promoting ubiquitination and degradation of vimentin, affecting cytoskeletal dynamics. In contrast, CD24 targets RCC2 for degradation, thereby regulating β-catenin signaling. Notably, RCC2 KO enhances β-catenin activity by suppressing inhibitors AXIN2 and APC, whereas CD24 KO inhibits this pathway. These findings reveal a regulatory loop where CD24 and RCC2 reciprocally control proliferation and metastasis, positioning the CD24-RCC2 axis as a promising therapeutic target in prostate cancer.
Animal and human health are seriously threatened by bacterial infections, which can lead to bacteremia and extremely high rates of morbidity and mortality. Recently, there have been reports indicating the involvement of exosomal circular RNAs (circRNAs) in a range of human disorders and tumor types. However, the role of exosomal circRNAs in bacterial infection remains elusive.We extracted and identified exosomes from the culture medium of PIEC cells infected with or without Glaesserella parasuis. RNA sequencing analysis was performed on the exosomes to screen and identify circRNAs (circHIF1α) associated with Glaesserella parasuis infection. PIEC cells were infected with Staphylococcus aureus or Streptococcus suis 2 to further determine whether exosome-derived circHIF1α was the crucial circHIF1α associated with bacterial infections. The transmission process of exosomes and their circHIF1α between cells was clarified via exosome tracing and co-culture assay. Moreover, the mechanism of circHIF1α being packaged into exosomes was explored, and the effects of exosomes and their circHIF1α on cell proliferation, DNA damage and cell cycle were analyzed. In addition, the binding mode and site of interacting proteins with circHIF1α were further determined. In vivo and in vitro, the role of exosomes and their circHIF1α in host resistance to bacterial infection was confirmed.We first discovered a new circHIF1α that was very stable and detectable, encapsulated into exosomes by hnRNPA2B1, and whose expression in exosomes of bacterially infected PIEC cells significantly decreased. Additionally, exosomal circHIF1α reduced bacterial infection both in vitro and in vivo and suppressed the growth of reception cells. Mechanistically, the circHIF1α interacted with the KH domain of IGF2BP3 in an m6A-modified manner, which mediated DNA damage to arrest the cells at the G1/S phase through the interaction between the regulator of Chromosome Condensation 2 (RCC2) and γ-H2AX protein. Exosomal circHIF1α is a unique therapeutic target for bacterial infection since this work highlights its critical function in fighting bacterial infection.© 2024. The Author(s).
The regulator of chromosome condensation 2 (RCC2) and RAS-related C3 botulinum toxin substrate 1 (Rac1) have been implicated in the promotion of breast cancer cell proliferation and migration. The signaling pathway involving p53/RCC2/Rac1 has been proposed to contribute to the regulation of colon cancer metastasis. However, until now, this pathway has not been thoroughly investigated in breast cancer. This study seeks to explore the influence of immunohistochemical expression and the correlation among RCC2, Rac1, and p53 in breast infiltrating ductal carcinoma (IDC).Immunostaining was performed on 120 breast IDC specimens using RCC2, Rac1, and p53 antibodies. Statistical analyses were conducted to examine the correlations between these antibodies.A Positive expression of RCC2, Rac1, and p53 was observed in 116 (96.7%), 120 (100%), and 33 (27.5%) of the breast cancer cases, respectively. RCC2, Rac1, and p53 demonstrated association with poor prognostic parameters such as frequent mitoses, high Ki-67 status, positive lymphovascular invasion (LVI), and advanced tumor stage. A highly significant direct correlation was found between each immunohistochemical marker and the other two markers. Shorter overall survival was linked to multifocal tumors (P=0.017), advanced tumor stage (T3) (P=0.010), Luminal B subtype (P=0.015), progressive disease (P=0.003), positive Her2neu status (P=0.008), and metastasis to distant organs (P<0.001). However, RCC2, Rac1, and p53 did not exhibit a significant association with overall survival.The high expression levels of RCC2, Rac1, and p53 in breast IDC suggest their potential role in tumor behavior. The association of RCC2 and Rac1 with poor prognostic parameters may serve as predictive indicators for aggressive tumors, thus implying that targeted therapy could be beneficial in the treatment of breast cancer.© 2024.
Cytokinesis is required for faithful division of cytoplasmic components and duplicated nuclei into two daughter cells. Midbody, a protein-dense organelle that forms at the intercellular bridge, is indispensable for successful cytokinesis. However, the regulatory mechanism of cytokinesis at the midbody still remains elusive. Here, we unveil a critical role for NudC-like protein 2 (NudCL2), a co-chaperone of heat shock protein 90 (Hsp90), in cytokinesis regulation by stabilizing regulator of chromosome condensation 2 (RCC2) at the midbody in mammalian cells. NudCL2 localizes at the midbody, and its downregulation results in cytokinesis failure, multinucleation, and midbody disorganization. Using iTRAQ-based quantitative proteomic analysis, we find that RCC2 levels are decreased in NudCL2 knockout (KO) cells. Moreover, Hsp90 forms a complex with NudCL2 to stabilize RCC2, which is essential for cytokinesis. RCC2 depletion mirrors phenotypes observed in NudCL2-downregulated cells. Importantly, ectopic expression of RCC2 rescues the cytokinesis defects induced by NudCL2 deletion, but not vice versa. Together, our data reveal the significance of the NudCL2/Hsp90/RCC2 pathway in cytokinesis at the midbody.© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Higher Education Press.
Background: Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) incidence and mortality take the leading place of most malignancies. Previous studies have revealed the regulator of chromosome condensation 1 (RCC1) family members played an essential role during tumorigenesis. However, its biological functions in LUAD still need further investigation. Methods: Several databases were applied to explore potential effects of RCC1 family members on LUAD, such as Oncomine, GEPIA, and cBioPortal. Real-time PCR and immunohistochemistry were used to verify the expression of RCC2 in stage I LUAD. H1975 and A549 were selected to explore the biological function of RCC2 in cellular malignant phenotype. Results: The expressions of RCC1 and RCC2 showed marked differences in malignant tissue compared to lung tissue. The higher the expression levels of RCC1 or RCC2 in LUAD patients, the shorter their overall survival (OS). In normal lung tissues, RCC1 expression was highly enriched in alveolar cells and endothelial cells. Compare with RCC1, RCC2 expression in normal lung tissue was significantly enriched in macrophages, B cells and granulocytes. Additionally, RCC2 expression level was correlated with multiple immune cell infiltration in LUAD. Moreover, the mutation or different sCNA status of RCC2 exerted influence on multiple immune cell infiltration distribution. We found that the upregulation of RCC1 and RCC2 were obviously related to TP53 mutation. GSEA analysis revealed that RCC2 was involved in the process of DNA replication, nucleotide excision repair and cell cycle, which might affect tumor progression through P53 signaling pathway. We further elucidated that downregulation of RCC2 could dramatically repress the migration and invasion of LUAD cells. Conclusions: The study demonstrated that RCC1 and RCC2 expression were markedly increased in early-stage of LUAD. Patients with high expression of RCC1 or RCC2 had a worse prognosis. Based on our analysis, RCC1 and RCC2 might exert influence on LUAD process through DNA replication, nucleotide excision repair and cell cycle, as well as cells migration and invasion. Different from RCC1, RCC2 also involved in immune infiltration. These analyses provided a novel insight into the identification of diagnostic biomarker.© The author(s).
Asthma is a chronic inflammatory disorder with high prevalence in childhood. Airway remodeling, an important structural change of the airways, is resulted from epithelial-mesenchymal transition. Long non-coding RNA non-coding RNA activated by DNA damage (NORAD) has been found to promote epithelial-mesenchymal transition in multiple cancers. This study aimed to analyze the role of NORAD in asthma, mainly focusing on epithelial-mesenchymal transition-mediated airway remodeling, and further explored the NORAD-miRNA-mRNA network.NORAD expression was analyzed in transforming growth factor-β1-induced BEAS-2B human bronchial epithelial cells and ovalbumin-challenged asthmatic mice. The influences of NORAD on the epithelial-mesenchymal transition characteristics and Wnt/β-catenin pathway activation were analyzed in vitro. The interactions between NORAD and miR-410-3p as well as miR-410-3p and regulator of chromosome condensation 2 were detected by dual-luciferase reporter assay and RNA pull-down assay. Rescue experiments using miR-410-3p antagonist and chromosome condensation 2 overexpression were used to confirm the mechanism of NORAD. Additionally, the role and mechanism of NORAD were further evaluated in asthmatic mice.NORAD expression was elevated in both asthmatic models. Knockdown of NORAD impeded spindle-like morphology changes, elevated E-cadherin expression, decreased N-cadherin expression, suppressed cell migration, and inactivated the Wnt/β-catenin pathway in transforming growth factor-β1-stimulated BEAS-2B cells. NORAD acted as a sponge of miR-410-3p to regulate chromosome condensation 2 expression. Rescue assays demonstrated that silencing of NORAD ameliorated transforming growth factor-β1-induced EMT via miR-410-3p/chromosome condensation 2/Wnt/β-catenin axis. In vivo, knockdown of NORAD led to the reduction of inflammatory cell infiltration and collagen deposition, suppression of IL-4, IL-13, transforming growth factor-β1 and immunoglobulin E production, decreasing of N-cadherin, chromosome condensation 2, β-catenin and c-Myc expression, but increasing of E-cadherin and miR-410-3p expression.Silencing of NORAD alleviated epithelial-mesenchymal transition-mediated airway remodeling in asthma via mediating miR-410-3p/chromosome condensation 2/Wnt/β-catenin pathway.© 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Regulator of chromosome condensation 2 (RCC2) was a telophase disk-binding protein on mitosis, and functions as an oncogene in many human cancers. However, its role on prostate cancer (PCa) was unknown. The goal of this study is to explore the function of RCC 2 on PCa development.The expression of RCC2 and its methylation level, its correlation with lymph node metastasis or disease-free survival (DFS) was analyzed using TCGA database. The effect of RCC2 on PCa cell proliferation, migration and invasion were detected using CCK-8, cell colony formation, Transwell and wood healing assays. RNA-seq and GSEA analysis were used to search the downstream genes and pathways of RCC2 in mediated PCa progression. Western blot was used to detect the proteins in PCa cells transfected with indicated siRNAs or plasmids.RCC2 had high expression and low promoter methylation level in PCa, and its expression was correlated with regional node metastasis and disease-free survival. Cell proliferation, migration, invasion and EMT of PCa cells in vitro were greatly enhanced after RCC2 overexpression, while the RCC2 knockdown suppressed these processes. RNA-seq and GSEA results showed the Hedgehog signaling regulator Gli1 and Gli3 were involved in RCC2 knockdown DU145 cells. Gli1 was also a marker of cancer stem-like cells (CSCs). Mechanistically, RCC2 induced cell growth, EMT, CSCs markers through Gli1; inhibiting Gli1 expression using siGli1 or GLI inhibitor suppressed cell progression in vitro and tumor growth in vivo.In summary, RCC2 promoted PCa development through Hh/Gli1 signaling pathway via regulating EMT and CSCs.© 2023. The Author(s).
The Regulator of Chromosome Condensation 2 (RCC2) is an important gene that regulates mitosis and cytoplasmic division in the cell cycle. Although there have been reported in several individual tumors, an integrative analysis of RCC2 and its clinical significance across diverse cancer types is poorly elucidated. In this study, we performed integrative bioinformatics analyses to profile the expression landscape and assess the prognostic value of RCC2 in pan-cancers. Correlations between RCC2 expression and tumor-infiltrating immune cells, tumor mutation burden (TMB), microsatellite instability (MSI), chemokine and their receptors were analyzed using TCGA, ESTIMATE algorithm, and TISIDB database. We also explored the potential molecular functions of RCC2 through functional enrichment analysis and protein interaction networks. We discovered that RCC2 was highly expressed in various tumor tissues and was closely associated with cancer prognosis. Different RCC2-associated immune infiltration patterns were exhibited in different tumor-infiltrating immune cells. In addition, the RCC2 had a potential role in regulating the tumor immune microenvironment and the formation of cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs). Meanwhile, RCC2 showed a significant correlation with TMB, MSI, chemokines and their receptors in different tumor types. The role of RCC2 as a clinical therapeutic target was further revealed from the perspective of the immune microenvironment. In conclusion, RCC2 is closely associated with tumorigenesis and cancer-immune infiltration, and could be a promising prognostic and therapeutic biomarker in diverse cancers.
Regulator of chromosome condensation 2 (RCC2) is highly involved in the development of tumor malignancies. The underlying mechanisms remain to be elucidated. The present study aimed to explore the role of RCC2 in the development of tumor malignancies and explore the underlying mechanisms in colorectal cancer (CRC). RCC2 expression and survival analysis were performed in human pan-cancer. The results of searching its mRNA expression in The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database showed that RCC2 was highly expressed in different types of cancer. High RCC2 expression levels were significantly correlated with poor survival outcomes by the Kaplan-Meier analysis in the TCGA database. Immunohistochemistry revealed that RCC2 was higher expressed in 36 CRC tissues than in adjacent normal tissues. Co-immunoprecipitation revealed that RCC2 bound to high mobility group A2 (HMGA2). Ectopic expression of RCC2 promoted cell proliferation, migration and invasion, whereas knockdown of HMGA2 exerted the opposite effects. Collectively, the data provided a novel biomarker of RCC2 in various types of cancer. High RCC2 expression levels were correlated with poor prognosis in different types of cancer. In addition, RCC2 may combine with HMGA2 to promote CRC malignancy.Copyright: © Gu et al.
Gastric cancer is one of the malignant tumors in the world. PAK4 plays an important role in the occurrence and development of gastric cancer, especially in the process of invasion and metastasis. Here we discover that CORO1C, a member of coronin family that regulates microfilament and lamellipodia formation, recruits cytoplasmic PAK4 to the leading edge of gastric cancer cells by C-terminal extension (CE) domain of CORO1C (353-457 aa). The localization of PAK4 on the leading edge of the cell depends on two necessary conditions: the phosphorylation of PAK4 on serine 99 and the binding to the CE domain of CORO1C. Unphosphorylated PAK4 on serine 99 is closely associated with microtubules by PAK4/GEF-H1/Tctex-1 complex. Once phosphorylated, PAK4 is released from microtubule, and then is recruited by CORO1C to the leading edge and regulates the CORO1C/RCC2 (regulator of chromosome condensation 2) complex, leading to the migration of gastric cancer cells. Our results reveal a new mechanism by which PAK4 regulates the migration potential of gastric cancer cells through microtubule-microfilament cross talk.
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) represents a prevalent endocrine disorder that constitutes a significant threat to female reproductive health. Immune dysregulation and chronic low-grade inflammation are increasingly recognized as pivotal contributors to ovarian dysfunction in this condition. In the present study, we enrolled PCOS patients clinically and established a dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA)-induced PCOS mouse model. Our findings revealed elevated levels of pro-inflammatory M1 macrophages, diminished anti-inflammatory M2 macrophages, and aberrant distribution of associated inflammatory cytokines in both PCOS patients and animal models, implicating the macrophage phenotypic plasticity in the pathogenesis of PCOS. Interleukin-4 (IL-4), a potent immunomodulatory cytokine, effectively ameliorated ovarian histopathological alterations and restored ovulatory function in the DHEA-induced PCOS mice through the promotion of M2 macrophage polarization. Specifically, IL-4 administration attenuated serum concentrations of interleukin-1β (IL-1β), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), concomitantly enhancing interleukin-10 (IL-10) and interferon-γ (IFN-γ) expression, whilst suppressing M1 macrophage infiltration. Furthermore, IL-4 treatment mitigated ovarian cellular apoptosis, upregulated ADAM metallopeptidase with thrombospondin type 1 motif 1 (ADAMTS1) expression, and reinstated ovulatory capacity. Mechanistically, IL-4 facilitated M2 macrophage polarization via the modulation of the nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) signaling pathway; these polarized M2 macrophages subsequently attenuated apoptosis in co-cultured KGN granulosa cells and enhanced ADAMTS1 expression. This investigation preliminarily elucidates novel insights into the inflammatory and immune microenvironment underlying PCOS pathophysiology, demonstrating that IL-4 could ameliorate ovarian apoptosis and promote ovulatory function through NF-κB/IκB-mediated M2 macrophage polarization, thereby alleviating PCOS-associated manifestations and furnishing a theoretical foundation for innovative therapeutic strategies.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The dietary ligands, omega-3 fatty acid endocannabinoids (eCBs) eicosapentaenoyl ethanolamide (EPEA) and docosahexaenoyl ethanolamide (DHEA), and short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) acetate, propionate and butyrate, have anti-inflammatory and antidepressant properties. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying their action in the human brain remain elusive. Here, we treated human hippocampal neurons (HPC0A07/03 C) with eCBs (EPEA (300 pM) or DHEA (700 pM)), or SCFAs (acetate (200 uM), propionate (30 uM), butyrate (20 uM)), followed by interleukin (IL)1β (10,000 pg/ml) or IL6 (50 pg/ml). We found that treatment with either eCBs or SCFAs prevented IL1β- and IL6-induced reduction in neurogenesis and increase in apoptosis. These effects were mediated by IL1β-induced production of IL6, interferon-gamma (IFNγ) and tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNFα), and by IL6-induced IL1β, IL8 and IL13, all of which were prevented by treatment with eCBs. In contrast, IL1β-induced production of IL6, IL12 and fractalkine (CX3CL1), and IL6-induced production of CX3CL1, were prevented by SCFAs. Treatment with IL1β and IL6 also increased the production of candidate kynurenine pathway metabolites, such as kynurenine (KYN) and nicotinic acid (NICA), which again were prevented by eCBs and SCFAs. We then conducted mRNA sequencing analysis to investigate cellular genes and signalling pathways relevant for the neuro-inflammatory changes previously observed, and putatively prevented by eCB and SCFA treatment. We found that IL1β decreased the expression of the neuroplasticity gene, FRY microtubule binding gene (FRY), and increased the expression of the neuroinflammation gene, U3 small nucleolar ribonucleoprotein homolog C subunit processome component (UTP14C), and both these effects were prevented by either acetate or propionate. Similarly, the expression of the proinflammatory gene, ADAM metallopeptidase with thrombospondin type 1 motif 1 (ADAMTS1), was increased by IL6, an effect that was prevented by either EPEA or acetate. Altogether, we identify novel anti-inflammatory and neurogenic mechanisms mediating the effect of eCBs and SCFAs on human hippocampal neurogenesis, which can be significant as potential future treatment candidates in the context of neuropsychiatric disorders.© 2025. The Author(s).
Visfatin (VIS) is a hormone belonging to the adipokines' group secreted mainly by the adipose tissue. VIS plays a crucial role in the control of energy homeostasis, inflammation, cell differentiation, and angiogenesis. VIS expression was confirmed in the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) axis structures, as well as in the uterus, placenta, and conceptuses. We hypothesised that VIS may affect the abundance of proteins involved in the regulation of key processes occurring in the corpus luteum (CL) during the implantation process in pigs. In the present study, we performed the high-throughput proteomic analysis (liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry, LC-MS/MS) to examine the in vitro influence of VIS (100 ng/mL) on differentially regulated proteins (DRPs) in the porcine luteal cells (LCs) on days 15-16 of pregnancy (implantation period). We have identified 511 DRPs, 276 of them were up-regulated, and 235 down-regulated in the presence of VIS. Revealed DRPs were assigned to 162 gene ontology terms. Western blot analysis of five chosen DRPs, ADAM metallopeptidase with thrombospondin type 1 motif 1 (ADAMTS1), lanosterol 14-α demethylase (CYP51A1), inhibin subunit beta A (INHBA), notch receptor 3 (NOTCH3), and prostaglandin E synthase 2 (mPGES2) confirmed the veracity and accuracy of LC-MS/MS method. We indicated that VIS modulates the expression of proteins connected with the regulation of lipogenesis and cholesterologenesis, and, in consequence, may be involved in the synthesis of steroid hormones, as well as prostaglandins' metabolism. Moreover, we revealed that VIS affects the abundance of protein associated with ovarian cell proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis, as well as CL new vessel formation and tissue remodelling. Our results suggest important roles for VIS in the regulation of ovarian functions during the peri-implantation period.© 2024. The Author(s).
Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), discovered in December 2019 in Wuhan, China, caused the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). Due to the rate of spread of this virus, the World Health Organization, in March 2020, recognised COVID-19 as a worldwide pandemic. The disease is multisystemic with varying degrees of severity. Unfortunately, despite intensive research, the molecular changes caused by SARS-CoV-2 remain unclear. Mechanisms affected by the virus infection include endothelial dysfunction and angiogenesis. Similarly, the vaccines developed so far affect the process of angiogenesis, contributing to the development of undesirable effects on part of the cardiovascular system. The presented research aimed to investigate the impact of the SARS-CoV-2 infection and the Pfizer Comirnaty vaccine (BNT162b2) on the molecular aspect of angiogenesis. We found that convalescents vaccinated with one dose of BNT162b2 were characterised by higher MMP-7 (metalloproteinases 7) expression than non-vaccinated convalescents and healthy volunteers vaccinated with one dose of BNT162b2. Moreover, non-vaccinated convalescents showed increased mRNA expression of ADAMTS1 (ADAM metallopeptidase with thrombospondin type 1 motif 1) compared to healthy volunteers vaccinated with one dose of BNT162b2. In addition, we showed significant sex differences in the expression of MMP-7. In conclusion, the results of our study suggest a significant impact of SARS-CoV-2 infection and vaccination on the course of angiogenesis at the molecular level.
Exposure to phthalates disrupts ovarian function. However, limited studies have investigated the effects of phthalate mixtures on ovulation, especially in women. Human granulosa cells were used to test the hypothesis that exposure to a phthalate mixture (PHTmix) disrupts progesterone (P4)/progesterone receptor (PGR) signaling, which is a crucial pathway for ovulation. In addition, progestin and cyclic adenosine 3', 5'-monophosphate (cAMP) supplementation were tested as methods to circumvent phthalate toxicity. Granulosa cells from women undergoing in vitro fertilization were acclimated in culture to regain responsiveness to human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG; clinical luteinizing hormone analogue). Granulosa cells were treated with or without hCG, and with or without PHTmix (1-500 μg/ml; dimethylsulfoxide = vehicle control) for 0.5-36 h. In the supplementation experiments, cells were treated with or without R5020 (stable progestin), and with or without 8-Br-cAMP (stable cAMP analogue). Exposure to hCG + PHTmix decreased P4 levels and mRNA levels of steroidogenic factors when compared to hCG. This was accompanied by decreased mRNA levels of PGR and downstream P4/PGR ovulatory mediators (ADAM metallopeptidase with thrombospondin type 1 motif 1 (ADAMTS1), C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4), pentraxin 3 (PTX3), and regulator of G protein signaling 2 (RGS2)) in the hCG + PHTmix groups compared to hCG. Exposure to hCG + PHTmix 500 μg/ml decreased cAMP levels and protein kinase A activity compared to hCG. Supplementation with progestin in the hCG + PHTmix 500 μg/ml group did not rescue toxicity, while supplementation with cAMP restored PGR levels and downstream P4/PGR mediator levels to hCG levels. These findings suggest that phthalate mixture exposure inhibits P4/PGR signaling in human granulosa cells via decreased steroidogenesis, cAMP levels, and protein kinase A activity. Restored P4/PGR signaling with cAMP supplementation provides a potential cellular target for intervention of phthalate-induced ovulatory dysfunction in women.© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Society for the Study of Reproduction. All rights reserved. For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.
Left ventricular noncompaction (LVNC) is a prevalent cardiomyopathy associated with excessive trabeculation and thin compact myocardium. Patients with LVNC are vulnerable to cardiac dysfunction and at high risk of sudden death. Although sporadic and inherited mutations in cardiac genes are implicated in LVNC, understanding of the mechanisms responsible for human LVNC is limited.We screened the complete exome sequence database of the Pediatrics Cardiac Genomics Consortium and identified a cohort with a de novo CHD4 (chromodomain helicase DNA-binding protein 4) proband, CHD4M202I, with congenital heart defects. We engineered a humanized mouse model of CHD4M202I (mouse CHD4M195I). Histological analysis, immunohistochemistry, flow cytometry, transmission electron microscopy, and echocardiography were used to analyze cardiac anatomy and function. Ex vivo culture, immunopurification coupled with mass spectrometry, transcriptional profiling, and chromatin immunoprecipitation were performed to deduce the mechanism of CHD4M195I-mediated ventricular wall defects.CHD4M195I/M195I mice developed biventricular hypertrabeculation and noncompaction and died at birth. Proliferation of cardiomyocytes was significantly increased in CHD4M195I hearts, and the excessive trabeculation was associated with accumulation of ECM (extracellular matrix) proteins and a reduction of ADAMTS1 (ADAM metallopeptidase with thrombospondin type 1 motif 1), an ECM protease. We rescued the hyperproliferation and hypertrabeculation defects in CHD4M195I hearts by administration of ADAMTS1. Mechanistically, the CHD4M195I protein showed augmented affinity to endocardial BRG1 (SWI/SNF-related, matrix-associated, actin-dependent regulator of chromatin, subfamily A, member 4). This enhanced affinity resulted in the failure of derepression of Adamts1 transcription such that ADAMTS1-mediated trabeculation termination was impaired.Our study reveals how a single mutation in the chromatin remodeler CHD4, in mice or humans, modulates ventricular chamber maturation and that cardiac defects associated with the missense mutation CHD4M195I can be attenuated by the administration of ADAMTS1.
Polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) play important roles in the aetiology and pathogenesis of metabolic dysfunction-associated fatty liver disease (MAFLD). However, the underlying molecular mechanisms are not understood. We analysed a public GEO dataset, GSE89632, to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in MAFLD. Weighted gene coexpression network analysis (WGCNA) was used to reveal the core gene regulation network and to explore the PUFA-related hub genes in MAFLD. We experimentally verified these genes by quantitative reverse transcription PCR in high-fat diet (HFD)-fed mice. A total of 286 common DEGs (89 upregulated; 197 downregulated), mostly related to inflammatory and immune responses, were identified. Six modules were constructed using WGCNA, and 2 modules showed significant correlations with PUFAs. After combining these 2 modules with DEGs, the top 10 hub genes were identified. We further established a MAFLD mouse model with liver steatosis, as proved by HE and Oil Red O staining. Of the hub genes, ADAM metallopeptidase with thrombospondin type 1 motif 1 (adamts1) (p = 0.005) and transforming growth factor β3 (tgfβ3) (p < 0.001) showed significantly lower mRNA expression in MAFLD in vivo. adamts1 and tgfβ3 bridged PUFAs and MAFLD, which might be potential causative genes and therapeutic targets of MAFLD.Copyright © 2022 Xiao, Chen, Yang, Liu and Yu.
Keratinocytes constitute a major part of the melanoma microenvironment, considering their protective role towards melanocytes in physiological conditions. However, their interactions with tumor cells following melanomagenesis are still unclear.We used two in vitro models (melanoma-conditioned media and indirect co-culture of keratinocytes with melanoma cells on Transwell inserts) to activate immortalized keratinocytes towards cancer-associated ones. Western Blotting and qPCR were used to evaluate keratinocyte markers and mediators of cell invasiveness on protein and mRNA expression level respectively. The levels and activity of proteases and cytokines were analysed using gelatin-FITC staining, gelatin zymography, chemiluminescent enzymatic test, as well as protein arrays. Finally, to further study the functional changes influenced by melanoma we assessed the rate of proliferation of keratinocytes and their invasive abilities by employing wound healing assay and the Transwell filter invasion method.HaCaT keratinocytes activated through incubation with melanoma-conditioned medium or indirect co-culture exhibit properties of less differentiated cells (downregulation of cytokeratin 10), which also prefer to form connections with cancer cells rather than adjacent keratinocytes (decreased level of E-cadherin). While they express only a small number of cytokines, the variety of secreted proteases is quite prominent especially considering that several of them were never reported as a part of secretome of activated keratinocytes' (e.g., matrix metalloproteinase 3 (MMP3), ADAM metallopeptidase with thrombospondin type 1 motif 1). Activated keratinocytes also seem to exhibit a high level of proteolytic activity mediated by MMP9 and MMP14, reduced expression of TIMPs (tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases), upregulation of ERK activity and increased levels of MMP expression regulators-RUNX2 and galectin 3. Moreover, cancer-associated keratinocytes show slightly elevated migratory and invasive abilities, however only following co-culture with melanoma cells on Transwell inserts.Our study offers a more in-depth view of keratinocytes residing in the melanoma niche, drawing attention to their unique secretome and mediators of invasive abilities, factors which could be used by cancer cells to support their invasion of surrounding tissues. Video abstract.© 2022. The Author(s).
Recently, we demonstrated that estrogen (E2) induces early growth response 1 (Egr1) to mediate its actions on the uterine epithelium by controlling progesterone receptor signaling for successful embryo implantation. EGR1 is a transcription factor that regulates the spectrum of target genes in many different tissues, including the uterus. E2-induced EGR1 regulates a set of genes involved in epithelial cell remodeling during embryo implantation in the uterus. However, only few target genes of EGR1 in the uterus have been identified.The expression of ADAM metallopeptidase with thrombospondin type 1 motif 1 (Adamts-1) was significantly downregulated in the uteri of E2-treated ovariectomized (OVX) Egr1(-/-) mice. Immunostaining of ADAMTS-1 revealed its exclusive expression in the uterine epithelium of OVX wild-type but not Egr1(-/-) mice treated with E2. The expression profiles of Adamts-1 and Egr1 were similar in the uteri of E2-treated OVX mice at various time points tested. Pre-treatment with ICI 182, 780, a nuclear estrogen receptor (ER) antagonist, effectively inhibited the E2-dependent induction of Egr1 and Adamts-1. Pharmacologic inhibition of E2-induced ERK1/2 or p38 phosphorylation interfered with the induction of EGR1 and ADAMTS-1. Furthermore, ADAMTS-1, as well as EGR1, was induced in stroma cells surrounding the implanting blastocyst during embryo implantation. Transient transfection with EGR1 expression vectors significantly induced the expression of ADAMTS-1. Luciferase activity of the Adamts-1 promoter containing EGR1 binding sites (EBSs) was increased by EGR1 in a dose-dependent manner, suggesting functional regulation of Adamts-1 transcription by EGR1. Site-directed mutagenesis of EBS on the Adamts-1 promoter demonstrated that EGR1 directly binds to the EBS at -1151/-1134 among four putative EBSs.Collectively, we have demonstrated that Adamts-1 is a novel target gene of E2-ER-MAPK-EGR1, which is critical for embryo implantation in the mouse uterus during early pregnancy.© 2021. The Author(s).
Myocardial fibrosis (MF) represents a major pathological alteration observed in the progression of numerous heart conditions. The presence of excessive MF is key in the progression of numerous heart diseases, which may lead to heart failure. Abnormal expression of pumilio RNA-binding family member 2 (PUM2), an RNA-binding protein, is a contributing factor in the development of a variety of diseases. The present study aimed to investigate how PUM2 affected the expression and alternative splicing of genes associated with MF in H9C2 cells, thus evaluating the role of PUM2 in this context. Inhibition of PUM2 expression in H9C2 cardiomyocytes was achieved through small interfering RNA transfection. Cell viability was assessed using a Cell Counting Kit-8 assay, while apoptosis was detected through flow cytometry. RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) was utilized to analyze the differential gene expression profiles and alternative splicing events (ASEs) in H9C2 cells regulated by PUM2. Sequencing results were confirmed through reverse transcription-quantitative PCR. The results showed that a reduction in PUM2 levels inhibited cell viability without affecting apoptosis. RNA-seq analysis revealed notable changes in the expression of various genes associated with MF, including adrenomedullin, NDRG family member 4, phospholipid phosphatase 3, integrin subunit α 8, regulator of G protein signaling 2, cadherin 11, integrin subunit α 11 and transforming growth factor β-induced, following PUM2 knockdown. In addition, PUM2 regulated ASEs in genes associated with fibrosis progression, such as tropomyosin 1 and actinin α1. The present study revealed that PUM2 had a regulatory effect on alternative splicing and gene expression associated with MF, suggesting PUM2 as a promising molecular target for MF therapy.Copyright: © 2026 Zhang et al.
Stomach adenocarcinoma (STAD) presents a challenge given its advanced stage at diagnosis and poor prognosis. Integrin subunit alpha 11 (ITGA11) encodes alpha integrin and has been implicated in promoting tumorigenesis and development by participating in cell proliferation and invasion. However, the precise mechanism of ITGA11 in STAD remains unclear.The differences in ITGA11 expression levels between 375 gastric cancer samples and 32 paracancerous tissue samples from the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database were examined. The relationship between ITGA11 expression and clinical features and ITGA11 diagnostic and prognostic value were evaluated using the chi-square test and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) assay. Differentially expressed genes were identified based on ITGA11 expression. Subsequently, functional enrichment analyses were conducted using Gene Ontology, the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes, and Gene Set Enrichment Analysis. Furthermore, immune infiltration and the expression of ITGA11-associated immune checkpoints in patients with tumors were assessed using CIBERSORT, single-sample gene set enrichment analysis, and the TIMER database. Drug sensitivity associated with ITGA11 expression was analyzed using the R oncoPredict package to guide treatment decisions. Finally, the difference in ITGA11 expression between cancer tissue and the adjacent tissues was validated using quantitative PCR (qPCR) and immunohistochemistry.The gastric cancer tissue had significantly upregulated ITGA11 expression compared to paracancerous tissues. ITGA11 demonstrated robust diagnostic and prognostic value in gastric cancer (GC) and was an independent risk factor for adverse outcomes. The patients with STAD with elevated ITGA11 expression levels had heightened immune cell infiltration and increased immune checkpoint marker expression. Notably, patients with increased ITGA11 expression demonstrated reduced responsiveness to oxaliplatin and afatinib.The results indicated the pivotal role of ITGA11 in shaping the tumor immune microenvironment, ultimately establishing ITGA11 as an immune-related prognostic predictor within the intricate landscape of STAD.© 2024 Yang et al.
Cirrhosis is becoming one of the most common diseases worldwide. Abnormal upregulation of transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) signaling plays a pivotal role in the excess activation of hepatic stellate cells. However, an efficient countermeasure against abnormal hepatic stellate cell activation is yet to be established because TGF-β signaling is involved in several biological processes. Herein, we demonstrated the antifibrotic effect of miR-12135, a microRNA with unknown function upregulated by isoflavone. Comprehensive transcriptome assay demonstrated that miR-12135 suppressed Integrin Subunit Alpha 11 (ITGA11) and that ITGA11 expression is correlated with alpha smooth muscle actin expression in patients with cirrhosis. miR-12135 suppressed the expression level of ITGA11 and liver fibrosis. Importantly, ITGA11 is overexpressed in activated hepatic stellate cells, whereas ITGA11 knockout mice are viable and fertile. In conclusions, the miR-12135/ITGA11 axis can be an ideal therapeutic target to suppress fibrosis by precisely targeting abnormally upregulated TGF-β signaling in hepatic stellate cells.© 2023 The Author(s).
Beta-cell dysfunction is a hallmark of disease progression in patients with diabetes. Research has been focused on maintaining and restoring beta-cell function during diabetes development. The aims of this study were to explore the expression of C-type lectin domain containing 11A (CLEC11A), a secreted sulphated glycoprotein, in human islets and to evaluate the effects of CLEC11A on beta-cell function and proliferation in vitro. To test these hypotheses, human islets and human EndoC-βH1 cell line were used in this study. We identified that CLEC11A was expressed in beta-cells and alpha-cells in human islets but not in EndoC-βH1 cells, whereas the receptor of CLEC11A called integrin subunit alpha 11 was found in both human islets and EndoC-βH1 cells. Long-term treatment with exogenous recombinant human CLEC11A (rhCLEC11A) accentuated glucose-stimulated insulin secretion, insulin content, and proliferation from human islets and EndoC-βH1 cells, which was partially due to the accentuated expression levels of transcription factors MAFA and PDX1. However, the impaired beta-cell function and reduced mRNA expression of INS and MAFA in EndoC-βH1 cells that were caused by chronic palmitate exposure could only be partially improved by the introduction of rhCLEC11A. Based on these results, we conclude that rhCLEC11A promotes insulin secretion, insulin content, and proliferation in human beta-cells, which are associated with the accentuated expression levels of transcription factors MAFA and PDX1. CLEC11A, therefore, may provide a novel therapeutic target for maintaining beta-cell function in patients with diabetes.
Chemoresistance limits cisplatin (DDP)-mediated treatment for gastric cancer (GC). Circular RNA (circRNA) acts an important role in chemoresistance. However, the underlying mechanism of circPDSS1 regulating DDP sensitivity in GC remains unclear. The expression patterns of circPDSS1, miR-515-5p and integrin subunit alpha 11 (ITGA11) were analyzed by qRT-PCR. Protein expression was checked by Western blotting analysis. Cell viability was investigated by 3-(4,5-dimethylthazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay. Cell proliferation was evaluated by colony formation assay and 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU) assay. The analysis of cell apoptosis, migration and invasion was performed by flow cytometry analysis and transwell assays. Dual-luciferase reporter assay and RNA immunoprecipitation assay were conducted to identify the associations among circPDSS1, miR-515-5p and ITGA11. In vivo assay was implemented using a xenograft mouse model assay. CircPDSS1 and ITGA11 expression were significantly upregulated, whereas miR-515-5p was downregulated in DDP-resistant GC tissues and cells in comparison with controls. CircPDSS1 depletion reduced DDP resistance, cell proliferation, migration and invasion but induced cell apoptosis in DDP-resistant GC cells. CircPDSS1 directly bound to miR-515-5p. CircPDSS1-mediated actions were dependent on the regulation of miR-515-5p. Besides, miR-515-5p was associated with ITGA11, and circPDSS1 regulated ITGA11 expression by binding to miR-515-5p. Overexpression of miR-515-5p improved DDP sensitivity owing to the downregulation of ITGA11. Further, circPDSS1 mediated DDP sensitivity by regulating miR-515-5p and ITGA11 in vivo. CircPDSS1 conferred DDP resistance through the miR-515-5p/ITGA11 axis in GC cells.
Gastric cancer (GC) is among the most frequent malignancies originating from the digestive system worldwide, while the role and specific mechanism of integrin-subunit alpha 11 (ITGA11) in GC remain unclear. This study probes the expression characteristics and function of ITGA11 in GC. Firstly, the ITGA11 profile in GC tissues and paracancerous non-tumor tissues was assessed by quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and Western blot (WB), and the association between ITGA11 and GC patients' clinicopathological indicators was evaluated. ITGA11 knockdown models were set up in GC cell lines MKN45 and AGS. Cell proliferation was determined by the cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) assay and colony formation assay. WB was utilized to gauge the expression of apoptosis-related proteins (Bax, Bcl2, Bad, and C-Caspase3) and the PI3K/AKT pathway. We discovered that the ITGA11 expression was boosted in GC tissues and was related to the unfavorable prognosis of GC patients. Additionally, ITGA11 knockdown abated GC cell proliferation, invasion and migration, and enhanced cell apoptosis. In animal experiments, the tumorigenesis of GC cells knocking down ITGA11 was reduced. Mechanically, knocking down ITGA11 notably inactivated the PI3K/AKT axis. The tumor-suppressive effect mediated by ITGA11 knockdown was attenuated after activating the PI3K/AKT pathway with insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1). Overall, this study substantiated that the ITGA11 expression was heightened in GC tissues, which affected GC progression by modulating the PI3K/AKT pathway.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42299353 is a review article
Adipose tissue-derived extracellular vesicles (adiposomes) carry a protein cargo that we previously showed differs between obese and lean individuals. In this study, we investigate how adiposomal protein cargo changes in response to sleeve gastrectomy and examine whether these changes are associated with clinical improvements. Twenty-three obese adults underwent pre- and post-bariatric surgery adipose sampling for adiposome isolation and clinical assessments that included vascular and metabolic profiles and inflammatory markers. The adiposomal protein cargo was analyzed via non-targeted proteomics. Differential protein abundance, pathway enrichment, and correlation analyses were assessed. Twelve weeks after bariatric surgery, BMI and fat mass decreased, accompanied by improved glucose and lipid profiles. Inflammatory markers (leptin, IL-6, CRP) also declined, while adiponectin and nitric oxide increased. Adiposomal proteomics identified 287 proteins, with 138 significantly altered. Downregulated proteins included PRDX2, FN1, SERPIND1, and inflammatory mediators; upregulated proteins included talin-1, fibrinogens, and adiponectin. Correlation analysis linked these changes to improvements in lipid profiles, vascular function, and circulating inflammatory markers. Pathway analysis revealed inhibition of lipid-regulatory pathways alongside enrichment of immune, metabolic, and vascular pathways, including lipoprotein metabolism and endothelial signaling. Bariatric surgery-induced cardiometabolic improvements were accompanied by adiposome proteomic remodeling, characterized by reduced inflammation and metabolic reprogramming.
Prostate cancer (PCa) is a common malignant tumor in males, and castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) represents an advanced stage with limited treatment options and poor prognosis. Talin-1 (TLN1) is a cytoskeletal protein implicated in tumor progression, but its specific role and mechanism in CRPC remain unclear.Mass spectrometry (MS) was used to analyze serum peptides from patients with hormone-sensitive prostate cancer (HSPC) and CRPC. TLN1 expression was further validated in clinical prostate tissue samples (59 PCa, 17 benign prostatic hyperplasia) via immunohistochemistry, qPCR, and Western blot. Functional assays (CCK-8, colony formation, wound healing, Transwell) and a nude mouse xenograft model were employed to assess the effects of TLN1 knockdown on CRPC cell lines (DU145, PC3). Transcriptome sequencing, molecular docking, and co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) were conducted to explore downstream mechanisms and interactions. Western blot analysis was applied to examine the impact of TLN1 knockdown on apoptosis and the PI3K-AKT, MAPK, and NF-κB signaling pathways in CRPC cell lines. Rescue experiments were performed by knocking down both TLN1 and nerve growth factor receptor (NGFR).TLN1 expression was significantly upregulated in CRPC patient serum and PCa tissues. Knockdown of TLN1 inhibited proliferation, migration, invasion, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), promoted apoptosis in CRPC cells, and suppressed tumor growth in vivo. Transcriptome analysis identified NGFR as significantly upregulated upon TLN1 knockdown. TLN1 knockdown can influence the malignant progression of CRPC through the MAPK and PI3K-AKT signaling pathways. Molecular docking and Co-IP confirmed a direct interaction between TLN1 and NGFR. Knockdown of NGFR reversed the tumor-suppressive effects induced by TLN1 silencing.TLN1 inhibits the progression of CRPC by interacting with and regulating the tumor suppressor NGFR. The TLN1/NGFR axis represents a novel potential therapeutic target for CRPC.Copyright © 2026 Li, Chen, Guo, Gu, Tang, Shen, Yang and Mi.
Background Tumour heterogeneity significantly impacts biomarker reliability in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), such as lactate dehydrogenase A (LDHA) and Talin-1, thus complicating the validation of their diagnostic utility. This study investigated their expression heterogeneity in tissue microarrays (TMAs) from 40 non-metastatic NSCLC cases (24 squamous cell carcinomas, 16 adenocarcinomas) and 10 normal lung tissues, using standardised immunohistochemistry. Methodology Formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded TMAs were stained with anti-LDHA and anti-Talin-1 antibodies. Cores were clustered based on their expression intensity, scored from 0 to 3 for intensity, and analysed against tumour grade/stage. A two-sided Pearson chi-square test was used to calculate the significance between normal and cancer tissue expression and to correlate the expression with the tumour grade/stage. Fisher's exact test was also considered when nodule counts were less than five. Results LDHA expression was significantly higher in adenocarcinoma (χ² = 20.30, p < 0.001) and squamous cell carcinoma (χ² = 28.34, p < 0.001) compared with normal lung tissue, with a heterogeneous expression pattern, although no association was observed with tumour stage, grade, or lymph node status. These findings suggest that its expression heterogeneity may contribute to the inconsistency in its reported diagnostic utility across studies for lung cancer diagnosis, highlighting the need for multiplexed biomarker panels to overcome limitations driven by heterogeneity. In contrast, Talin-1 expression was reduced in malignancy and did not demonstrate statistical significance in adenocarcinoma (χ² = 2.11, p = 0.146), squamous cell carcinoma (χ² = 0.01, p = 0.912), or NSCLC overall (χ² = 1.12, p = 0.289). Talin-1 expression also had a heterogeneous pattern with no correlation with the tumour clinicopathological parameters. Conclusions Our findings revealed significant heterogeneity in LDHA and Talin-1 expression across NSCLC subtypes, independent of tumour grade and stage. This observed variability supports the need for using multiplexed panels and patient-based rather than single-marker approaches for reliable clinical applications.Copyright © 2026, Hmmier et al.
African swine fever (ASF), caused by the African swine fever virus (ASFV), is currently a major threat to the global swine industry and food security because no safe and effective vaccines or antiviral drugs are available. Developing a defense strategy that incorporates antiviral agents and other approaches is urgently needed. Here, we found that a fucoidan, SPW-05-S2, from a brown alga, inhibits ASFV infection by over 95% in porcine alveolar macrophages (PAMs) via suppressing viral entry and factory formation. Using an affinity precipitation workflow, we identified 4 viral and 665 cellular proteins as potential binding partners of SPW-05-S2 in ASFV-infected PAMs, of which 3 viral proteins and 2 cellular proteins (PAK2 and Talin-1) were experimentally validated. Mechanistically, our results suggest that SPW-05-S2 inhibits ASFV replication by both suppressing endocytosis via targeting the PAK2/LIMK/Cofilin/F-actin remodeling pathway and blocking viral factory formation through perturbing Talin-1-mediated cytoskeletal remodeling networks. Collectively, our findings show that SPW-05-S2 blocks ASFV infection by modulating host cytoskeletal pathways at two critical stages of the viral life cycle. Given that fucoidans are already widely used in food and pharmaceuticals, SPW-05-S2 represents a promising, low-risk candidate for antiviral intervention against ASFV.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV) is a re-emerging coronavirus that infects neonatal piglets via newly discovered colostrum transmission routes. Research has shown that T cells carrying PEDV in colostrum can infect piglets, but the mechanism is unclear. This study revealed that PEDV impairs T-cell immune function, preventing the production of granzymes, perforin, and interferon-γ. Furthermore, RNA sequencing of PEDV-infected and uninfected T cells revealed significant differences in gene expression: the expression of CCR10 on T-cell surfaces increased, whereas the expression of vinculin, α-actinin, paxillin, FAK, and talin-1 decreased (P < 0.05). The results revealed that CCR10 only interacts with CCL28. PEDV strains led to significant upregulation of CCL28 in porcine mammary epithelial cells (PMECs). Finally, the role of CCR10/CCL28 in T-cell migration during PEDV infection was illustrated via a small interfering RNA (siRNA)-mediated knockdown method and a coculture model of PMECs with T cells. The results demonstrated that the addition of the chemokine CCL28 to the lower chamber of the transwell system elicits a chemotactic effect on T cells. This phenomenon is attributed mainly to the substantial increase in the expression levels of paxillin and FAK on the surface of T cells following siRNA-mediated interference with CCR10. In contrast, no significant differences were observed in the expression levels of vinculin and α-actinin. These results suggest a mechanism underlying the regulation of T-cell migration in response to CCL28, which is potentially associated with the modulation of paxillin and FAK expression levels.Understanding the impact of porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV) on T-cell function and migration is crucial. This study reveals PEDV impairs T-cell immunity by preventing key molecule production. It uncovers significant gene expression changes in infected T cells, with CCR10 rising and several adhesion-related proteins falling. Further, CCR10 interacts solely with CCL28, and PEDV upregulates CCL28 in PMECs, is key. The transwell system experiments show CCL28's chemotactic effect on T cells, linked to paxillin and FAK expression changes. These findings shed light on how PEDV manipulates T-cell migration via the CCR10/CCL28 axis, aiding in developing strategies against PEDV.
Enteric nervous system (ENS) injury, characterized by progressive degeneration of enteric neurons and glial cells, is a common diabetic complication with no effective cure beyond symptomatic management. Enteric neural precursor cells (ENPCs) play a key role in maintaining neurogenesis and gliogenesis within the adult ENS. Here, we demonstrate that bone marrow mesenchymal stem cell-derived microvesicles (BMSC-MVs) alleviate diabetic ENS injury. In both diabetic patients and mouse models, gastrointestinal transit was delayed, ENS structure was impaired, and neurogenesis and gliogenesis from ENPCs were elevated yet remained functionally insufficient. Transcriptomic profiling revealed activation of ER stress and the pro-apoptotic PERK branch of the unfolded protein response in ENPCs. BMSC-MVs homed to the colon, were internalized by ENPCs, and suppressed ER stress, thereby enhancing functional neurogenesis and gliogenesis, restoring ENS structure, and improving gastrointestinal motility. Mechanistically, vinculin on BMSC-MVs bound talin-1 on ENPCs, activating the ERK pathway to suppress diabetic ER stress. These results identify BMSC-MVs as a promising cell-free therapeutic strategy for diabetic ENS injury.
The dysregulation of cellular adhesion molecules can induce aggressive tumor behavior and malignant progression. Talin-1, vinculin, and focal adhesion kinase (FAK) are focal adhesion molecules whose expression has prognostic significance in various cancers. We evaluated talin-1, vinculin, and FAK expressions and their correlation with clinicopathological characteristics and prognostic significance in patients with colorectal cancer (CRC). Low talin-1 expression was identified in 170 (54.0%) cases and was significantly correlated with large tumor size, high pT classification, perineural invasion, involved resection margin, high tumor stromal percentage (TSP), low Klintrup-Mäkinen (KM) grade, and low vinculin expression. Low vinculin expression was identified in 157 (49.8%) patients and was significantly associated with high pT classification, lymphovascular invasion, perineural invasion, lymph node metastasis, high TSP, and low KM grade. High FAK expression was identified in 158 (50.1%) cases and significantly correlated with perineural invasion. Patients with low talin-1 and vinculin expressions had significantly worse overall survival than patients with high expressions ( P <0.001 and P =0.041, respectively). High FAK expression was associated with poor overall survival in patients with CRC ( P =0.022). Low talin-1 expression was an independent poor prognostic factor in patients with CRC ( P <0.001). Low talin-1 and vinculin expressions and high FAK expression correlated with aggressive clinicopathological behaviors and poor overall survival in patients with CRC. Low talin-1 expression was identified as an independent poor prognostic factor and may be a useful therapeutic target in patients with CRC.Copyright © 2026 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.
RIAM (Rap1-GTP-interacting adaptor molecule) links Rap1 to talin-1 to promote integrin activation and is normally enriched at nascent adhesions. How the duration of RIAM-talin engagement influences adhesion dynamics and force transmission remains unclear. Here, we used a RIAM chimera in which the native talin-binding site was replaced with the talin-binding motif of Kank2 to enforce sustained talin association and redistribute RIAM modules to mature adhesions. This talin-tethered RIAM chimera enhanced integrin activation, accelerated both adhesion assembly and disassembly, reduced adhesion lifetime, increased the fraction of nascent adhesions nucleated by RIAM, and elevated cellular traction forces. Notably, while integrin activation by the chimera was largely Rap1-independent, Rap1 binding remained necessary for optimal adhesion turnover kinetics and full traction force generation. These findings demonstrate that prolonged talin engagement of RIAM is sufficient to reprogram adhesion dynamics and reveal a separable role for Rap1 in coordinating force transmission downstream of integrin activation. Together, our results highlight the importance of regulating the residence and engagement mode of RIAM at talin for controlling adhesion plasticity and mechanotransduction.
TLN1, a cytoskeletal protein associated with various tumors, remains inadequately studied in gliomas. In this study, we examined the functional role and mechanisms of TLN1 in glioma pathogenesis. Utilizing public databases, we conducted differential expression, survival (Kaplan-Meier/ROC), and regression analyses, which were subsequently validated with institutional datasets and clinical tissues. In vitro experiments demonstrated that TLN1 knockdown in glioma cells resulted in reduced proliferation (CCK8/EDU), migration and invasion (wound healing/Transwell), and increased apoptosis (AO/EB/flow cytometry); these findings were corroborated by Western blot analyses. Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) linked TLN1 to the TGF-beta signaling pathway, a connection further validated by Western blot and in vivo murine models. Both public and institutional data indicated that TLN1 was upregulated in gliomas, with elevated expression correlating with poor prognosis. Furthermore, TLN1 knockdown inhibited glioma growth and progression in vitro and in vivo, primarily through the TGF-beta signaling pathway. Our findings establish TLN1 as an oncogenic driver in gliomas and highlight its potential as a therapeutic target.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Obesity, a major health issue linked to metabolic disorders, is driven by multiple factors, including impaired leptin signaling, particularly in the Janus kinase 2 (JAK2)/Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) pathway. This study investigated the impact of aldehyde-containing food additives on leptin receptor activated signaling in cells. We examined the effects of 39 different aldehyde-containing compounds, commonly used in food additives, on leptin-induced STAT3 transcriptional activity through a reporter gene assay. Three aldehydes, i.e., 2-pyrrolecarboxaldehyde, o-anisaldehyde, and piperonal were found to reduce leptin-induced STAT3 transcriptional activity in a concentration-dependent manner without affecting cell viability. These additives did not alter conformational changes of the leptin receptor, STAT3 phosphorylation, or its nuclear translocation, nor did they induce endoplasmic reticulum stress. These additives likely affect a downstream step in leptin signaling, specifically transcriptional regulation by STAT3, without disrupting early receptor signaling events. These finding suggest that some aldehyde-based food additives may contribute to leptin resistance and potentially to the development of obesity.Copyright © 2026 Shibuya, Yoshida, Tsuge, Hamasaki, Kuriya, Nakagawa, Sugiyama, Miyamoto, Shimamoto, Jockers, Dam and Hosoi.
Mycoplasma genitalium has emerged as a clinically significant etiology of sexually transmitted infections that often establishes persistent infections within the female reproductive tract. Although the recruitment of neutrophils is a characteristic feature of the cervicitis associated with M. genitalium, the molecular mechanisms that govern this response at the mucosal interface remain incompletely defined. In this study, the infection of endocervical epithelial cells with M. genitalium was observed to induce a robust increase in IL-33 protein that localized within the nucleus. The transcriptional induction of the gene encoding IL-33 was mediated by a signaling axis involving Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) and TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1), which led to the nuclear translocation and promoter binding of Interferon Regulatory Factor 1 (IRF1) and 7 (IRF7). Within the nucleus, IL-33 physically complexed with the p65 subunit of NF-κB. This interaction facilitated the recruitment and occupancy of p65 at the promoters of the genes encoding CXCL1 and IL-8, thereby specifically amplifying the secretion of these chemokines. Functional assays demonstrated that the secretion of chemokines dependent on nuclear IL-33 was required for the adhesion, chemotaxis, and oxidative activation of neutrophils. These findings identify a pathogenic mechanism whereby M. genitalium exploits the nuclear function of IL-33 to drive chronic neutrophilic inflammation and contribute to the immunopathology of the reproductive tract.Copyright © 2026 Tian, Li, Xie, Zhang, Hu, Huang, Du, Li and Xie.
This study sought to elucidate the regulatory mechanisms of exosomes derived from gingival mesenchymal stem cells (GMSC-Exo) in the context of inflammation associated with oral lichen planus (OLP).An in vitro OLP inflammatory model was established by stimulating the Human Adult Keratinocyte Transformed Cell Line (Hacat) with lipopolysaccharide (LPS). The cellular uptake of GMSC-Exo was detected by immunofluorescence. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was employed to assess the levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and interleukin-10 (IL-10). Cell viability and apoptosis were measured by Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) assay and flow cytometry, respectively. The mRNA levels of Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) were determined via reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), and the protein expression levels of TLR4, phosphorylated nuclear factor kappa B subunit p65 (p-P65), P65, phosphorylated IκBα (p-IκBα), and IκBα were further validated by Western Blot.LPS stimulation significantly increased the secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IL-6), decreased the production of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10, and promoted Hacat cell apoptosis while impairing cell viability. Notably, administration of GMSC-Exo effectively alleviated these LPS-induced effects. Mechanistically, GMSC-Exo suppressed LPS-induced TLR4 overexpression and blocked downstream nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) signaling activation, as evidenced by decreased phosphorylation of IκBα and P65.GMSC-Exo alleviates LPS-induced inflammation and apoptosis in Hacat cells by downregulating the TLR4/NF-κB signaling pathway. Our findings offer novel insights and potential therapeutic strategies for treating OLP.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Amuc_1100, an outer membrane protein of the mucin-degrading commensal bacterium Akkermansia muciniphila, is known to strengthen intestinal epithelial barrier integrity, with reports suggesting a potential involvement of Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2). Its role in the vaginal epithelial barrier, however, remains unexplored. In this study, recombinant Amuc_1100 was expressed in a baculovirus-insect cell system and purified by immobilized metal affinity chromatography (IMAC). Purified Amuc_1100 exhibited concentration-dependent binding to recombinant TLR2 in ELISA. In VK2/E6E7 vaginal epithelial cells, Amuc_1100 treatment did not alter viability across the tested concentrations, confirming the absence of cytotoxicity. Western blot analysis demonstrated that Amuc_1100 treatment significantly increased the expression of tight junction-associated proteins, including Zonula Occludens-1 (ZO-1), Claudin-1 (CLDN-1), and Claudin-4 (CLDN-4), under basal conditions. Furthermore, stimulation with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or zymosan A markedly reduced ZO-1 levels, whereas co-treatment with Amuc_1100 restored expression under both conditions. Collectively, these findings provide preliminary evidence that recombinant Amuc_1100 modulates tight junction-associated protein expression in vaginal epithelial cells. However, additional functional barrier assays, mechanistic studies, and in vivo validation are required to further evaluate its potential as a postbiotic candidate.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42554391 is a review article
Organic dust exposures, particularly in occupational settings, induce airway inflammation and contribute to the development and progression of chronic lung disease and impaired tissue regeneration. Interleukin-22 (IL-22) is a pleiotropic cytokine recognized for maintaining epithelial barrier integrity and promoting tissue repair; however, its regulation in lung myeloid cells, particularly macrophages, remains poorly understood. Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2), a pattern recognition receptor highly expressed on lung macrophages, recognizes bacterial components abundant in organic dust and drives inflammatory signaling. We investigated the mechanistic role of TLR2 signaling in regulating IL-22 production by lung macrophages following exposure to microbial-enriched agricultural organic dust extract (DE).An immortalized lung macrophage cell line (MH-S) was stimulated with selective Toll-like receptor agonists and pharmacologic inhibitors to determine the contribution of individual TLR pathways to IL-22 production. To examine the role of TLR2 in vivo, wild-type (WT) and TLR2-deficient (tlr2-/-) mice were exposed to DE repeatedly for two weeks. IL-22 expression and macrophage localization were evaluated using RNAscope in situ hybridization and immunofluorescence analysis.TLR2 stimulation preferentially induced IL-22 production compared with other TLR pathways while simultaneously coordinating pro-inflammatory cytokine responses. Activation of the TLR2/1 heterodimer, but not TLR2/6, significantly increased IL-22 production, indicating pathway-specific regulation of reparative signaling. In vivo, repeated DE exposure resulted in significantly reduced pulmonary IL-22 expression in tlr2-/- mice compared with WT controls. Furthermore, tlr2-/- lungs exhibited fewer IL-22+CD68+ cells, an overall reduction in macrophage numbers, and a significant decrease in the proportion of CD68+ macrophages expressing IL-22, suggesting that TLR2 is required for both macrophage accumulation and IL-22 production during dust-induced lung injury.These findings identify TLR2 as a critical regulator of IL-22-mediated reparative programming in lung macrophages following organic dust exposure. Our study reveals a previously unrecognized link between innate immune sensing and epithelial repair pathways, providing mechanistic insight into how TLR2 promotes tissue restoration after environmental lung injury. Targeting the TLR2-IL-22 axis may represent a promising therapeutic strategy for mitigating occupational dust-induced lung damage.Copyright © 2026 Oyewole, Mondal, Jones, McDermott, Cunningham, Dean, Barahona, Threatt, Wahl, Poole and Nordgren.
Mood disorders, including major depressive disorder, bipolar disorder, generalized anxiety disorder, and posttraumatic stress disorder, constitute a primary source of global disability, and with conventional monoamine-targeted pharmacotherapy, approximately one-third of patients remain with treatment-resistant disease. Over the past decade, the microbiota-gut-brain axis (MGBA) has emerged as a systems-level pathophysiological framework that explains the chronic neuroinflammation, hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis hyperactivity, and impaired neuroplasticity that characterize treatment-resistant mood disorders. Short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) are key molecular mediators in MGBA signaling, exerting epigenetic regulation through the inhibition of histone deacetylase, suppression of microglial toll-like receptor 4/nuclear factor-kappa B signaling, reinforcement of intestinal and blood-brain barrier integrity, and rebalancing of tryptophan-kynurenine metabolism. A few small randomized controlled trials and meta-analyses have reported that restoring SCFA output using next-generation psychobiotics (Faecalibacterium prausnitzii, Akkermansia muciniphila, and Clostridium butyricum), prebiotic-rich dietary patterns, defined synbiotics, and direct postbiotic supplementation is associated with symptom improvement, although the evidence base remains preliminary, and have been proposed as candidate prognostic biomarkers. This narrative review synthesizes 2022 to 2026 mechanistic and clinical evidence on SCFA-producing psychobiotics in mood disorders; integrates these findings within a clinical nutrition framework that positions dietary fiber, microbiota-accessible carbohydrates, and targeted psychobiotic supplementation as legitimate adjuncts to conventional psychopharmacology; and discusses the translational challenges of strain specificity, dosing variability, and precision-psychobiotic medicine. Nevertheless, current evidence remains dominated by preclinical models, with human trials constrained by size, duration, and number.
Secondary lymphedema is a debilitating complication following oncologic surgery, characterized by progressive tissue fibrosis and chronic inflammation. Although transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) has been established as a central mediator of fibrotic remodeling, the broader interplay between pro-inflammatory cytokines and downstream fibrotic signaling cascades in post-surgical lymphedematous tissue remains poorly understood.Skin and subcutaneous tissue biopsies were prospectively collected from 126 patients with unilateral breast cancer-related lymphedema and 58 matched controls across three tertiary centers between January 2024 and December 2025. Tissue specimens were analyzed using immunohistochemistry, quantitative real-time PCR, multiplex cytokine profiling, and Western blotting. Correlations between cytokine expression, fibrotic markers, and clinical severity were evaluated.Lymphedematous tissues exhibited significantly elevated expression of TGF-β1, interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-13 (IL-13), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) compared with controls (all P < 0.01). Concurrent activation of Smad2/3 and STAT3 signaling pathways was observed, with both correlating positively with disease severity. Multivariate regression identified TGF-β1, IL-6, and IL-13 as independent predictors of fibrotic burden, whereas TNF-α lost significance after adjustment for confounders. Lymphatic vessel density was inversely associated with cytokine levels and fibrotic severity.Secondary upper extremity lymphedema following breast cancer surgery is driven by a coordinated inflammatory and fibrotic axis involving TGF-β1, IL-6, and IL-13 through convergent Smad2/3 and STAT3 signaling. These findings support the development of multi-pathway therapeutic strategies beyond single-agent anti-fibrotic approaches for post-surgical lymphedema.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
To evaluate the effects of melatonin on chondrogenic and osteogenic differentiation, chondro-osteogenic transdifferentiation, and inflammatory responses in equine mesenchymal stem cells (eMSCs) in vitro.This in vitro experimental study was conducted from October 2023 through June 2024. The eMSCs were cultured under chondrogenic, osteogenic, and chondro-osteogenic transdifferentiation conditions with or without melatonin and exposed to proinflammatory cytokines (IL-1β and tumor necrosis factor-α [TNF-α]). Expression of chondrogenic and osteogenic markers was measured by quantitative reverse-transcription PCR. Concentrations of IL-1β, TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-8 in culture supernatants were quantified by multiplex immunoassay.In chondrogenic cultures, melatonin was associated with increased collagen type II (COLII) and sex-determining region Y-box transcription factor 9 (SOX9) expression and was associated with higher COLII-to-collagen type I (COLI) and SOX9-to-runt-related transcription factor 2 (RUNX2) ratios, consistent with preservation of chondrogenic phenotype. During chondro-osteogenic transdifferentiation, melatonin increased RUNX2 and ALP expression and decreased COLII:COLI and SOX9:RUNX2 ratios, suggesting promotion of an early osteogenic or hypertrophic shift. In contrast, in osteogenic cultures, melatonin decreased RUNX2, ALP, and COLI expression, indicating context-dependent effects on osteogenic differentiation. Across culture conditions, melatonin significantly reduced IL-1β, TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-8 concentrations in culture supernatants.Melatonin differentially modulated lineage behavior in eMSCs, preserving chondrogenic characteristics in some settings, promoting early osteogenic transition during transdifferentiation, and suppressing proinflammatory mediator production.These findings support further investigation of melatonin as a potential adjunct for modulating proinflammatory responses during equine cartilage repair and other inflammatory musculoskeletal disorders.
Osteoporosis (OP) occurs with decreased bone mass and deterioration of the bone microarchitecture. This can lead to an increased incidence of bone fractures. In traditional Chinese medicine, the herbal pair of Eucommia ulmoides and Achyranthes bidentata is used to tonify the liver and kidney in order to strengthen bones. This study examined the network pharmacology and molecular docking of the pair to investigate the pharmacological mechanisms of the drug pair against OP. Active compounds were retrieved from the Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology database if they had an oral bioavailability of 30% or greater and a drug-likeness score of 0.18 or greater. OP-associated targets were identified from the GeneCards and Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man databases. The compound-target-disease network and protein-protein interaction network were built using Cytoscape and the Search Tool for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes/Proteins, respectively. Key pathways were identified using the Database for Annotation, Visualization and Integrated Discovery functional enrichment analysis. To predict the potential binding interactions between the major compounds and the hub targets, molecular docking was used. In total, 49 active compounds (28 from E ulmoides and 21 from A bidentata) and 95 overlapping therapeutic targets were found. Quercetin, kaempferol, β-sitosterol, stigmasterol and wogonin were identified as key bioactive components within the network analysis. Fourteen hub targets, including interleukin-6, vascular endothelial growth factor A, tumor necrosis factor, tumor protein p53, and mitogen-activated protein kinase 1, were identified through protein-protein interaction analysis. Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment revealed involvement in tumor necrosis factor, mitogen-activated protein kinase, hypoxia-inducible factor 1, Toll-like receptor, and NOD-like receptor signaling pathways. Molecular docking demonstrated favorable binding affinities between the key compounds and core proteins, suggesting potential interactions consistent with the network pharmacology predictions. The Eucommia-Achyranthes herbal pair may exert potential therapeutic effects on OP through multicomponent, multi-target, and multi-pathway interactions. Its main bioactive compounds may potentially interact with inflammatory and osteogenic signaling pathways via key targets such as interleukin-6, vascular endothelial growth factor A, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, tumor protein p53, and mitogen-activated protein kinase 1, which may be associated with bone metabolism and structural integrity. These findings provide a theoretical foundation for future experimental and clinical validation.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
Rheumatoid arthritis and its glucocorticoid-based treatment may adversely affect male reproductive function by disrupting spermatogenesis, steroidogenesis, and testicular homeostasis. Insulin-like peptide 3 (INSL3), a Leydig cell-derived peptide hormone and marker of Leydig cell functional capacity, may contribute to the maintenance of testicular function through its steroidogenic and anti-inflammatory effects. In the present study, we investigated the effects of prednisolone and INSL3, administered alone or in combination, on testicular structure and function in rats with adjuvant-induced arthritis. Adult male rats were allocated to seven groups: control, prednisolone, INSL3, arthritis, arthritis + prednisolone, arthritis + INSL3, and arthritis + prednisolone + INSL3. Testicular alterations were evaluated using histological, morphometric, immunohistochemical, ultrastructural, testosterone, and sperm analyses. Arthritis was associated with reduced testicular weight, decreased seminiferous tubule diameter and epithelial thickness, impaired sperm parameters, lower serum and intratesticular testosterone levels, increased testicular tumor necrosis factor-α and interleukin-6 immunoreactivity, and reduced 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase and proliferating cell nuclear antigen immunoreactivity. In arthritic rats, prednisolone or INSL3 alone was associated with partial improvement in selected testicular parameters, whereas combined treatment was associated with improvement across several inflammatory, morphometric, steroidogenic, and sperm-related parameters. These findings suggest that INSL3 treatment is associated with partial attenuation of inflammation-related testicular injury and improvement in selected reproductive parameters under inflammatory and glucocorticoid stress. Further studies are required to clarify whether these effects are mediated by direct intratesticular mechanisms or indirect systemic pathways.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Society for Reproductive Investigation.
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a globally prevalent chronic liver disease, and its progression is closely associated with Kupffer cells (KCs). This study aims to characterize C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 9꞉secreted phosphoprotein 1 (CS) polarization in KCs and investigate its intercellular communication with endothelial cells (ECs) in NAFLD.Single-cell RNA sequencing data of liver tissues from 3 NAFLD mice and 3 control mice were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) dataset GSE129516. Seurat was used for data integration, quality control, clustering, and annotation. KCs and ECs were divided into subgroups, followed by Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses. A mouse liver single-cell dataset (GSE270583) was further included for cross-validation of CS polarization. CellChat was used to infer intercellular communication networks between KC and EC subgroups. Twenty male C57BL/6J mice were assigned to a control group (n=10) and a high-fat diet (HFD) group (n=10). Body weight was measured weekly. At 20 weeks of feeding, glucose tolerance and insulin tolerance were assessed, after which the mice were sacrificed, and serum and liver tissues were collected for subsequent experiments. Hematoxylin and eosin (HE) staining and Oil Red O staining were used to observe pathological changes in the liver. Immunofluorescence staining of liver tissues was performed to validate the characteristics of CS polarization and M1/M2 polarization.A total of 29 cell clusters belonging to 8 cell types were identified. Compared with the control group, the proportion of KCs was increased and the proportion of ECs was decreased in the NAFLD group. Under M1/M2 and CS polarization frameworks, subgroups including CD80+ KCs, CD206+ KCs, S100A4+ KCs, secreted phosphoprotein 1 (SPP1)+ KCs, and C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 9 (CXCL9)+ KCs were identified. Among these, CD80+ KCs and SPP1+ KCs were significantly expanded, and their characteristic genes were mainly enriched in nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) signaling pathways. Peroxiredoxin 3 (PRDX3) was upregulated in CD80+ KCs and downregulated in CD206+ KCs. ECs were divided into 3 subgroups: Apoa2+ ECs, PRDX3+ ECs, and Col4a1+ ECs. In the NAFLD group, the PRDX3+ EC subgroup was abnormally active, accompanied by high expression of PRDX1 and downregulation of glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4). Further external validation using the single-cell dataset GSE270583 showed that SPP1+ KCs and CXCL9+ KCs could be clearly separated, and the proportion of SPP1+ KCs was increased in the NAFLD group, supporting the cross-cohort reproducibility of CS polarization in NAFLD. CellChat analysis suggested activation of the TNF receptor superfamily member 1A (TNFRSF1A) signaling pathway from CD80+ KCs and SPP1+ KCs to PRDX3+ ECs. After 20-week HFD feeding, mice displayed significant weight gain, impaired glucose tolerance, and reduced insulin sensitivity compared with controls (all P<0.05). The levels of alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate transferase (AST), total cholesterol (TC), and triglyceride (TG) were significantly higher in the HFD group than in the control group (all P<0.05). HE staining and Oil Red O staining showed marked disordered hepatic architecture, lipid vacuoles, and lipid deposition in the livers of HFD mice. Immunofluorescence staining showed increased expression of PRDX3 and CD80 in liver tissues of the HFD group. Compared with the control group, SPP1 expression was increased, whereas CXCL9 expression was decreased, in hepatic KCs of the HFD group. These results were consistent with the single-cell transcriptome sequencing findings.KCs in NAFLD exhibit characteristics of CS polarization, with increased proportions of SPP1+ KCs and CD80+ KCs, as well as enhanced TNF-TNFRSF1A communication with PRDX3+ ECs. Changes in the expression of SPP1, CXCL9, CD80, and PRDX3 in the liver tissues of HFD mice were generally consistent with the single-cell analysis results. CS polarization may participate in alterations of the hepatic inflammatory microenvironment in NAFLD and may provide a new research direction for understanding the inflammation-fibrosis progression of NAFLD.
Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) contribute to host defense by trapping pathogens. However, excessive or dysregulated NET formation is implicated in the pathogenesis of various conditions, including thrombosis, autoimmune diseases, and cancer. Despite their clinical significance, the specific intracellular signaling pathways underlying NET formation in response to proinflammatory cytokines, including tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), remain incompletely defined. Thus, in the present study, we aimed to elucidate the mechanisms underlying TNF-α-induced NET formation in human neutrophil-like differentiated HL-60 (dHL-60) cells. TNF-α induced rapid, non-lytic NET formation in dHL-60 cells without compromising cell viability. Mechanistically, TNF-α activated a signaling cascade involving c-Raf, MEK1/2, and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK). This signaling cascade regulated the sequential caspase activation, with caspase-2 acting upstream of caspase-1 cleavage to promote NET formation. Collectively, these findings suggest that TNF-α induces non-lytic NET formation via a defined c-Raf-MEK1/2-p38 MAPK-caspase pathway and a distinct caspase hierarchy. This mechanism offers a valuable experimental model for studying NET-mediated pathologies in proinflammatory environments.
The tumor necrosis factor (TNF) and TNF receptor (TNFR) superfamilies comprise 47 proteins that regulate immune signaling and T cell costimulation. While TNF inhibitors are established therapies for immune-mediated inflammatory diseases (IMIDs), their efficacy is limited by primary non-response and secondary loss of efficacy. Preclinical data suggest that the TNF/TNFR members exhibit redundant and synergistic signaling, motivating combination targeting strategies.We have systematically evaluated TNF/TNFR combinations as potential immunotolerance targets using integrated computational and experimental approaches. We applied a gene prioritization framework incorporating transcriptomics, genetics, druggability, and pathway regulation data to derive disease association scores for the TNF/TNFR genes in rheumatoid arthritis and inflammatory bowel disease. Based on these scores and T cell expression profiling, ten targets were prioritized for a combinatorial screen using clinical-stage and preclinical pharmacological inhibitors in a mixed lymphocyte reaction (MLR) assay. The effects of the most promising combinations were further characterized by RNA sequencing.The combinatorial screen identified four drug combinations that significantly suppressed T cell production of IL-2 and IFN-γ: TNF+CD40L, TNF+OX40L, CD40L+OX40L, and CD40L+LTβ/LIGHT. Transcriptional profiling revealed that these combinations broadly downregulated genes associated with T cell activation, proliferation, differentiation, and cytokine production that were induced during the allogeneic response. Notably, the co-inhibition of TNF and CD40L (Adalimumab+Dapirolizumab) produced the most robust suppression, uniquely downregulating 337 genes enriched for key T cell activation pathways, including NF-κB and ERK1/2.These findings demonstrate that the combinatorial antagonism of TNF/TNFR superfamily members can potently suppress allogeneic T cell responses, with the TNF+CD40L combination showing particularly strong and broad effects. The results support the continued preclinical evaluation of combinatorial TNF/TNFR inhibition as a potential tolerance-inducing therapeutic strategy for patients with refractory IMIDs.Copyright © 2026 Veerasubramanian, Zang, Amancha, Wynn, Quan and Karlsson.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42563692 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42539524 is a review article
Older adults exhibit heightened vulnerability to heat-related morbidity, yet it remains unclear whether short-term heat acclimation modifies integrative physiological stress responses in aging. We tested whether seven days of passive heat acclimation via warm water immersion alters basal concentrations and acute exercise-heat stress responses of biomarkers reflecting fluid regulation, gastrointestinal epithelial integrity, renal stress, and inflammation in older males. Twelve habitually active older males (median [IQR] age: 68 [64-73] years; V̇O2peak: 34.1 [29.4-36.1] mL O2·kg-1·min-1) completed an exercise-heat stress test before and after seven consecutive days of warm water immersion (~40°C), with rectal temperature maintained at ~38.5°C for the final 60 min. Blood samples were collected before and after each exercise-heat stress test and analysed using linear mixed-effects models (Day x Time). Repeated warm water immersion increased resting renin by 68% [95% CI: 29, 120; P<0.001], while neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin and lipopolysaccharide binding protein decreased by 24% [-40, -4; P=0.023] and 22% [-37, -3; P=0.026] respectively. Exercise heat stress increased aldosterone by 45% [12, 87%, P=0.004], renin by 41% [8, 84%, P=0.01], intestinal fatty acid-binding protein by 52% [26, 85%, P<0.001], and plasma osmolality by 5.6% [2.5, 8.7%, P<0.001]. However, there was no day x time interaction for any biomarker (all P>0.05), indicating that seven days of warm water immersion did not alter the magnitude of the exercise heat stress response. Short-term passive heat acclimation in older males induces selective fluid-regulatory endocrine adaptations consistent with preserved renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system plasticity, while gastrointestinal and renal stress responses to exercise-heat exposure remain unchanged.
Objective: Chronic lung diseases (CLDs), for example, interstitial lung disease, manifest as an extra-articular complication of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The contribution of anti-bactericidal permeability-increasing protein antibodies (BPI Abs) in lung involvement in RA or primary Sjögren's syndrome has been reported. Studies related to anti-BPI Abs in RA with CLD are infrequent. Here, the involvement of anti-BPI Abs with RA and CLD complications was evaluated. Methods: Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays were used to measure anti-BPI Abs in RA sera. Results: Higher anti-BPI Ab amounts were present in the RA with usual interstitial pneumonia (UIP) than without CLD (mean ± standard deviation, 10.4 ± 23.5 [ng/mL] vs. 1.3 ± 3.8, p = 0.0020). Area under the curve values of receiver operating characteristic curves for anti-BPI Ab and Krebs von den lungen-6 were alike between RA with UIP and without CLD (0.8616, 95% CI 0.8184-0.9048; 0.8716, 95% CI 0.8151-0.9282, p = 0.5933, respectively). A relationship between anti-BPI Ab and anti-carbamylated protein Ab levels was observed in RA patients (rho 0.3508, p = 1.47 × 10-14). Conclusions: Anti-BPI Abs were related to UIP in RA patients and might be biomarkers for UIP. These findings predict anti-BPI Abs involvement in UIP pathogenesis in RA.
Lipedema is a chronic disorder that predominantly affects women and is characterized by abnormal subcutaneous adipose tissue accumulation, pain, and vascular dysfunction. However, reliable circulating biomarkers that reflect disease-specific pathophysiology are still lacking. This study investigated serum markers associated with adipose tissue, inflammation, and angiogenesis to further elucidate the pathophysiology of lipedema.In this cross-sectional observational study, fasting serum levels of adiponectin, chemerin, lipopolysaccharide-binding protein (LBP), proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9), soluble CD163 (sCD163), and soluble CD137 (sCD137)-proteins associated with obesity and inflammation-were measured in 23 premenopausal women with lipedema and 23 age-matched healthy premenopausal controls. Serum endostatin levels, an angiogenesis inhibitor, and insulin-like growth factor binding protein 2 (IGFBP2), a potent proangiogenic factor, were also assessed.Patients with lipedema and obese controls had comparable body mass index, glucose, and serum lipid profiles. No significant differences were observed between groups in circulating levels of adiponectin, chemerin, LBP, PCSK9, sCD163, sCD137 and IGFBP2. In contrast, serum endostatin levels were significantly reduced in patients with lipedema (p = 0.038). Additional analyses demonstrated markedly higher endostatin expression in human subcutaneous adipose tissue than in the liver, suggesting that circulating endostatin levels may be related to adipose tissue mass. However, serum endostatin levels were lower in obese compared with normal-weight women (p < 0.001).Lipedema was not associated with altered circulating levels of adiponectin, chemerin, LBP, PCSK9, sCD163, sCD137 or IGFBP2. Reduced serum endostatin levels support a potential role for vascular dysfunction in the pathophysiology of lipedema.
To investigate the clinical efficacy of separated moxibustion in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and related negative emotions based on gut microbiota, so as to explore its potential mechanism of action.A total of 70 RA patients were randomly divided into a control group (n=35, 2 cases dropped off, 3 cases were excluded) and an observation group (n=35, 3 cases dropped off, 2 cases were excluded), and 30 healthy participants who underwent physical examination during the same period were randomly enrolled as the normal group. The control group was given conventional drug therapy;the observation group was additionally treated with separated moxibustion at bilateral Zusanli (ST36), Shenshu (BL23) and Ashi points on the basis of the control group, once every other day, 3 times a week, for 5 consecutive weeks. The scores of disease activity score in 28 joints (DAS28), visual analogue scale (VAS) for pain, morning stiffness, gastrointestinal symptom rating scale (GSRS), self-rating anxiety scale (SAS), and self-rating depression scale (SDS) were compared between the control group and observation group before and after treatment. 16S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) gene sequencing was used to detect the composition structure and relative abundance of gut microbiota in the 3 groups before and after treatment. ELISA was adopted to measure the serum contents of lipopolysaccharide (LPS), lipopolysaccharide-binding protein (LBP), tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-1β (IL-1β), 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), and insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) in the control and observation groups before and after treatment.Compared with the baseline in the same group, the scores of DAS28, VAS, GSRS, SAS, SDS, as well as serum contents of LPS, LBP, TNF-α, IL-1β and IL-6 were significantly decreased in both the control and observation groups after treatment (P<0.05, P<0.01), and the reductions in the observation group were more significant than those in the control group (P<0.05, P<0.01). In contrast, morning stiffness score was significantly decreased, and serum contents of 5-HT and IGF-1 were significantly increased in the observation group after treatment compared with baseline and those in the control group after treatment (P<0.05, P<0.01). Before treatment, compared with the normal group at the same time point, the α -diversity of gut microbiota (Chao1, Ace, Sobs, Shannon indices) and the abundances of beneficial bacteria (Bacteroidota, Faecalibacterium, Bacteroides, Bifidobacterium) in the observation and control groups were significantly lower (P<0.01), while the Firmicutes/Bacteroidota (F/B) ratio and the abundances of opportunistic pathogenic bacteria (Firmicutes, Prevotella, Proteobacteria, Actinobacteriota, Escherichia-Shigella, Klebsiella) were significantly higher (P<0.01). Microbiota clustering analysis showed significant differences between the observation/control groups and the normal group. After treatment, all the above indicators were improved in observation/control groups, and the observation group showed significantly better outcomes in increasing α -diversity, restoring beneficial bacteria abundance, and reducing F/B ratio and pathogenic bacteria abundance than the control group (P<0.01, P<0.05).Separated moxibustion combined with conventional drugs exerts superior clinical efficacy to monotherapy with conventional drugs in relieving joint pain, improving gastrointestinal symptoms, and alleviating anxiety and depression in RA patients. Its mechanism may be associated with regulating gut microbiota diversity, optimizing microbiota structure, reducing inflammatory factor levels, and improving neurotransmitter metabolism.
Neonatal calf health critically depends on successful passive transfer of immunity (PTI) via colostrum. Although PTI is routinely assessed by serum IgG concentration, associated systemic proteomic responses remain poorly defined. This study aimed to relate distinct PTI categories to neonatal calf serum proteomes and to evaluate colostrum proteomes to identify proteins influencing passive transfer success. Forty Holstein cow-calf pairs were enrolled. Calf serum was collected before colostrum feeding (0 h) and at 48 h. Serum IgG was quantified by ELISA, and calves were classified at 48 h as failed (FPTI, <1000 mg/dL, n = 11), adequate (APTI, 1000-2000 mg/dL, n = 11), or excellent (EPTI, >2000 mg/dL, n = 18). For proteomic analyses, five calves were purposefully selected in each group; serum samples were pooled by PTI group and time point, and colostrum samples by PTI group, then analyzed by LC-MS/MS in DIA mode. Proteomics identified 54 proteins in colostrum and 80 in serum, 27 of which were shared between matrices. Post-colostrum intake, 21 (FPTI), 5 (APTI), and 30 (EPTI) serum proteins changed significantly from 0 to 48 h. In EPTI calves, haptoglobin (Hp) (51.10-fold) and pigment epithelium-derived factor (PEDF) (27.24-fold) showed the strongest upregulation. At 48 h, lipopolysaccharide-binding protein (LBP) and haemoglobin subunit epsilon (Hb-ε) were lower in EPTI, whereas PEDF, polymeric immunoglobulin receptor (PIGR), and SERPINA3-6 were higher, consistent with coordinated activation of acute-phase, mucosal/transport, and protease-antiprotease pathways. These findings indicate that PTI involves coordinated proteomic changes beyond IgG alone and highlight candidate biomarkers of successful passive immunity in neonatal calves.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Early breast cancer diagnosis is critical, particularly for individuals at hereditary risk. The aim of this study was to identify blood-derived protein biomarkers for breast cancer diagnosis to improve current screening strategies.Absolute quantification of 98 plasma proteins was performed via a UPLC-MRM-MS assay on plasma samples from 135 breast cancer patients and paired controls, one-third of which were of hereditary BRCA1/2 origin, and from women diagnosed within 5 years from blood collection. Plasma protein concentration profiles were compared between patients and paired controls across breast cancer subgroups.Proteomic analysis revealed four plasma proteins with elevated abundance and four other proteins with reduced abundance across different breast cancer subgroups. Haptoglobin (HP) was elevated in sporadic cases (n = 88) and cases with grade 3 tumors (n = 44), adipocyte plasma membrane-associated protein was elevated in cases with large tumors (n = 60) and grade 3 tumors (n = 44), lipopolysaccharide-binding protein (LBP) was elevated in node-positive (n = 58) and HER2 (n = 9) cases, and secreted protein acidic and cysteine rich was elevated in luminal B (n = 45) cases. Transthyretin was reduced in luminal B patients, and apolipoprotein A4 was reduced in HER2 patients. Immunoglobulin heavy constant mu (IGHM) and CD5 antigen-like (CD5L) were lower in BRCA1/2 (n = 47) and triple-negative (n = 17) patients than in paired controls. IGHM and CD5L were also lower in BRCA1/2 patients than in paired sporadic patients. Additionally, IGHM in plasma was lower among BRCA2 mutation carriers (n = 7) diagnosed with breast cancer within 5 years of blood collection than among paired controls and CD5L was also lower than among paired controls and sporadic patients diagnosed within 5 years of blood collection. The plasma proteins associated with breast cancer specific survival were LBP, HP, and IGHM.These findings indicate that plasma protein concentrations may have diagnostic and prognostic value for breast cancer screening and could provide valuable insights for biomarker discovery.© 2026. The Author(s).
Metabolic syndrome (MetS) is characterized by chronic low-grade inflammation, metabolic endotoxemia, and dysregulation of iron and vitamin D homeostasis. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and LPS-binding protein (LBP) play key roles in linking metabolic and immune pathways.To evaluate the effects of low-volume plasma exchange (LVPE) on inflammatory markers, iron metabolism, and vitamin D status in adults with MetS, and to determine whether these effects depend on baseline biomarker levels.In this prospective interventional study, 48 adults with MetS underwent four LVPE sessions using a nanomembrane-based system. Anthropometric and biochemical parameters were assessed before and after treatment. Baseline-stratified analyses were performed to evaluate individualized responses.LVPE significantly reduced C-reactive protein and increased transferrin levels, while vitamin D levels decreased. No significant changes were observed in IL-6, ferritin, serum iron, or LBP in the overall cohort. Baseline-stratified analyses revealed bidirectional, homeostatic effects, with normalization of both elevated and reduced biomarker levels. Reductions in inflammatory markers, particularly CRP, hsCRP, and LBP, were more pronounced in participants with higher baseline values, while individuals with low baseline levels remained largely unchanged.LVPE acts as a baseline-dependent immunometabolic modulator in MetS, selectively reducing inflammation and normalizing iron-related parameters while preserving physiological stability. These findings support its potential as a personalized adjunctive therapy in cardiometabolic risk management.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Enteric inflammation and immune cell activation promote enteric neuroplastic changes and CCR2-dependent monocyte recruitment, contributing to obesity-associated colonic dysmotility and chronic inflammation. Here, we examined the role of C-C motif chemokine ligand (CCL2)/C-C chemokine receptor 2 (CCR2)-mediated blood monocytes gut-homing in colonic motor dysfunctions in mice with high fat diet (HFD)-induced obesity.Wild-type C57BL/6J mice were fed HFD or standard diet (SD) for 8 weeks. Subgroups received the CCR2 antagonist RS504393 (2 mg/kg/day, oral) or vehicle throughout the HFD intake. Body weight and body mass index (BMI) were monitored starting from HFD intake. Colonic transit was assessed by fecal pellet output. In vitro colonic contractility was evaluated by assessing substance P (SP)-induced contractile responses, along with analysis of SP-positive neurons. Immunohistochemistry was used to quantify CCR2⁺ monocytes and CD64⁺/Iba-1⁺ macrophages within the myenteric plexus. Colonic expression of CCL2 in enteric neurons (HuC/D⁺) and glial cells (GFAP⁺) was assessed. Gut vascular barrier integrity was evaluated via PV-1 expression and plasma lipopolysaccharide-binding protein (LBP) levels. The effects of CCR2 blockade on motility, neuronal SP expression, chemokine expression, and monocyte recruitment were analyzed.HFD mice displayed an increase in body weight and BMI. An altered in vivo colonic transit along with an increased in vitro tachykininergic contractions and myenteric SP immunopositivity were detected in HFD mice. HFD mice exhibited marked infiltration of monocyte-derived macrophages (CD64⁺, Iba-1⁺) within the muscularis layer, in close spatial association with SP-positive nerve fibers and neuromuscular vasculature. Increased CCL2 expression was observed in both enteric neurons and glial cells, alongside evidence of compromised gut vascular barrier function. Pharmacological CCR2 inhibition attenuated weight gain and significantly improved colonic transit. Moreover, CCR2 blockade normalized tachykininergic hyperactivity, reduced SP expression, decreased colonic CCL2 levels, and limited monocyte/macrophage accumulation in the enteric neuromuscular compartment.During obesity, the activation of the CCL2/CCR2 pathway promotes the recruitment of blood-derived monocytes to the gut, driving neuroimmune remodelling within the enteric nervous system. Blood monocyte-derived macrophages modulate tachykininergic pathways, contributing to colonic dysmotility. Targeting CCR2-dependent gut immune cell trafficking may represent a novel therapeutic strategy for obesity-associated GI dysfunction.© 2026. The Author(s).
To clarify the crucial prediction role of intestinal barrier markers - lipopolysaccharide binding protein (LBP), soluble cluster of differentiation 14 (sCD14), and intestinal fatty acid binding protein (I-FABP) - through combined diagnostics in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients.A retrospective multi-centre study was conducted involving 139 RA patients from three hospitals, alongside 52 healthy controls (HCs). Serum levels of LBP, sCD14, and I-FABP were quantified by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Clinical records were systematically collected, and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis was performed to assess the predictive performance of the biomarkers.Compared to HCs, serum levels of sCD14, LBP and I-FABP were significantly higher in RA patients (p<0.05). Among those, sCD14 levels demonstrated a significant positive correlation with disease activity score for 28 joints based on C-reactive protein (DAS28-CRP) (p=0.002), DAS28 based on erythrocyte sedimentation rate (DAS28-ESR) (p=0.048) and inflammatory index. I-FABP also exhibited a positive association with DAS28-ESR (p=0.027). The triad of biomarkers demonstrated a superior diagnostic capability for distinguishing RA from HCs (area under the curve [AUC]=0.936; p<0.001) and contributed to the reliability of disease activity prediction, yielding an AUC of 0.804. Notably, sCD14 levels emerged as an independent predictor of synovitis (odds ratio: 1.834, 95% confidence interval: [1.160-2.901], p=0.009).Intestinal barrier-related biomarkers are associated with disease activity in RA. The combined assessment of LBP, sCD14, and I-FABP demonstrates good performance in differentiating RA from HCs and in evaluating disease activity. Furthermore, sCD14 may serve as a potential indicator of active synovitis, highlighting the clinical value of these biomarkers as complementary tools for disease assessment.
Ivabradine (IVA), a broad-spectrum inhibitor of HCN cation channels, is recognized for enhancing cardiac function in the treatment of cardiovascular diseases and may serve as a potential therapeutic agent for mitigating drug-induced cardiotoxicity. This study aimed to investigate the protective effect of IVA against cardiac damage induced by cisplatin (Cis) and to elucidate the underlying mechanisms.We investigated the impact of IVA (5 mg/kg, orally for 28 consecutive days) on Cisplatin-induced cardiac injury (7.5 mg/kg intraperitoneally on day 5) in rats. Biomarkers of oxidative stress and levels of inflammatory cytokines in cardiac tissue were assessed. H&E staining was employed to identify histopathological alterations in cardiac tissue. The molecular mechanisms of IVA in ameliorating cardiac injury were examined.The results indicated that IVA enhanced cardiac tissue structure by suppressing the pathological alterations observed in H&E staining. IVA demonstrated antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties through reducing malonaldehyde (MDA), NADPH oxidase, tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), and interleukins (IL-1β and IL-6) levels, while elevating superoxide dismutase (SOD), IL-10, and eNOS levels. IVA diminished the expression of cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB), Extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), Mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK), Protein Kinase C-epsilon (PKC epsilon), and microRNA-34a (miRNA-34a), while enhancing the expression of Protein Kinase G (PKG), Myosin Light Chain Phosphatase (MLCP), and Rapidly Accelerated Fibrosarcoma (Raf-1), as confirmed by western blotting and PCR results. Furthermore, its impact on cardiac tissue viability was supported by increased B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl2) levels and decreased caspase-3 staining in immunohistopathology.IVA may significantly mitigate cardiac injury in Cis-induced cardiotoxicity through regulating multiple pathways and miRNA-34a levels.
Evidence has shown that constant light or constant darkness significantly impairs cognitive functions and affects the mood state. The present study investigated the effect of circadian rhythm disturbances (circadian rhythm disruptions, CRDs) on locomotor activity, rearing behavior, pain threshold, novel object recognition memory, and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta (GSK-3β) expression levels in the hippocampus of both sexes of rats. CRD was done using a combination of constant light (48 h) and constant darkness (48 h) periods for 8 (short-term), 16 (midterm), or 24 (long-term) days. The results showed CRD in all protocols increased locomotor activity in males, whereas in females, only long-term CRD increased it. Long-term CRD increased rearing only in females, whereas in males, only midterm CRD decreased rearing. Short- and midterm CRD in males decreased pain threshold, whereas in females, only midterm CRD decreased pain threshold. Novel object recognition memory was impaired in both sexes following all protocols of CRD. All protocols of CRD in females downregulated BDNF, whereas in males, short-term CRD had no effect. GSK-3β was increased following long-term CRD in both sexes. Spearman correlation test showed that BDNF function may be associated with changes in some behavioral functions in both sexes; however, GSK-3β function may be associated with some behavioral changes only in females. In conclusion, we showed sex differences in the effect of CRD on locomotor activity, rearing behavior, and pain threshold. Also, GSK-3β may show a sex-dependent role in the modulation of behavioral changes induced by CRD.Copyright © 2026 Zeinab Dalil-Housh et al. Behavioural Neurology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Background/Objectives: Colorectal cancer (CRC) remains one of the leading causes of cancer-related morbidity and mortality worldwide. Despite advances in treatment, outcomes for advanced CRC remain unsatisfactory due to uncontrolled proliferation, metastasis, and recurrence. This study investigated the anti-cancer effects of KMU-11342, an indolin-2-one-based multi-protein kinase inhibitor with previously reported anti-inflammatory properties, in human colorectal cancer models. Methods: The anti-cancer effects of KMU-11342 were evaluated in colorectal cancer cells and further investigated in three-dimensional (3D) spheroid and patient-derived organoid models. Cell proliferation, migration, apoptosis, and cell cycle progression were assessed. Kinase activity profiling and molecular docking analyses were performed to identify potential targets and characterize the underlying signaling pathways. Results: KMU-11342 significantly inhibited the proliferation and migration of CRC cells. It reduced CRC cell density by 58.9% and 83.3% at 0.5 and 1 μM, respectively. These effects were accompanied by G2/M cell cycle arrest and apoptotic cell death. In 3D models, spheroid formation was markedly reduced and stemness-related characteristics were diminished. Patient-derived CRC organoids also showed decreased viability, exhibiting 38.6% and 77.4% reductions at 1 and 2 μM, respectively. These effects were observed in a dose-dependent manner in both two-dimensional (2D) and 3D colorectal cancer models. Kinase activity profiling and molecular docking analyses identified glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta (GSK3β) and cyclin-dependent kinase 1 (CDK1) as potential mediators of the anti-cancer effects of KMU-11342 through the p53/nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) and FoxO1 signaling axes, respectively. Conclusions: KMU-11342 exhibits potent anti-tumor activity against CRC through suppressing proliferation, migration, and stemness in both 2D and 3D models, including patient-derived organoids. Its effects may be mediated, at least in part, through modulation of GSK3β and CDK1 via the p53/NF-κB and FoxO1 signaling pathways.
Corneal allograft rejection remains a leading cause of graft failure. Mesenchymal stem cell-derived extracellular vesicles (MSC-EVs) may provide new options for modulating the immune response to allografts.This study aimed to determine whether miR-146a-enriched EVs could prolong corneal allograft survival by modulating local and systemic immune responses.After corneal allografting from C57BL/6 to BALB/c mice, recipients received subconjunctival injections of PBS, miR-NC-EVs, or miR-146a-EVs isolated from human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells (hUCSCs). Local inflammatory and regulatory factors in ocular tissues were assessed using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) to quantify the expression of interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1), TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6), tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, and forkhead box protein 3 (Foxp3). Systemic cytokine profiles were assessed in recipient sera using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) to measure interferon (IFN)-γ, interleukin (IL)-17, IL-10, and transforming growth factor (TGF)-β.Clinical rejection scores were markedly reduced, with significant improvements in opacity, edema, and neovascularization. RT-PCR analysis of corneal tissue showed miR-146a overexpression, downregulation of IRAK1 and TRAF6, a significant reduction in TNF-α mRNA, and increased Foxp3 expression. ELISA analysis of systemic IFN-γ and IL-17 showed that treatment with miR-146a-EVs resulted in lower systemic IFN-γ and IL-17 levels and significantly higher levels of the anti-inflammatory cytokines, IL-10 and TGF-β.This study identifies miR-146a-EVs as a novel cell-free therapy that effectively prolongs corneal transplant survival. The treatment exerts dual immunomodulatory effects by regulating local inflammatory pathways and shifting systemic cytokine profiles toward an anti-inflammatory state, thereby offering a targeted strategy to prevent transplant rejection.Copyright © 2026, He.
Granulosa cells (GCs) are integral to the process of follicular development in poultry, with their differentiation and hormone synthesis being critical for follicle selection. While glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta (GSK3β) is recognized as a significant regulator of energy metabolism, differentiation, and autophagy, its specific function within GCs remains unclear. Elucidating the role of GSK3β in GCs is essential for deciphering the mechanisms governing follicle selection. Our in vitro studies in GCs from prehierarchical follicles demonstrated that overexpression of GSK3β inhibited both differentiation and proliferation, while simultaneously promoting steroid hormone synthesis. Conversely, GSK3β knockdown yielded the opposite effects. Transcriptomic analyses, supplemented by further validation, revealed that overexpression of GSK3β initiated autophagy and lipid metabolism but impeded autophagic flux, as evidenced by increased LC3-II levels and elevated p62 accumulation. Furthermore, GSK3β overexpression resulted in enhanced intracellular lipid droplet accumulation. These effects, along with the observed rise in progesterone levels and reduction in FSHR levels, were attenuated by co-treatment with rapamycin (Rapa). Mechanistically, our findings suggest that the impairment of autophagic flux induced by GSK3β triggers lipid accumulation, leading to elevated mitochondrial damage and lipid peroxidation, which in turn negatively affects GC differentiation. In conclusion, GSK3β disrupts follicular GC function by initiating autophagy while blocking its flux. This disruption induces excessive lipid accumulation, ultimately inhibiting GC differentiation. This study provides novel insights into the role of GSK3β in poultry follicular development and offers a new theoretical framework for understanding the mechanisms of follicle selection.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Preventing or reversing Tau hyperphosphorylation and aggregation represent critical objectives in the development of effective therapies for Alzheimer's disease. The present study investigated the potential of a novel Aronia bioactive fraction-alginic acid nanocomplex (AANCP)-to simultaneously inhibit pathological features of Alzheimer's disease. Evaluations of Aronia bioactive fraction (ABF) and low-molecular-weight alginic acid (LAA), utilized both individually and as AANCP, were conducted in HEK293-TauP301L and SH-SY5Y-TauP301L cell models of Alzheimer's disease. Both ABF and LAA reduced the expression of total Tau and Tau phosphorylated at Ser396 in a concentration-dependent manner, with AANCP demonstrating significant synergistic activity of its components. Notably, the optimal AANCP ratio was 1:1 and 1:8 for inhibiting Tau phosphorylation and Tau aggregation, respectively. Mechanistically, AANCP inhibited Tau phosphorylation by upregulating p-Akt (phosphorylated protein kinase B) and p-GSK-3β (phosphorylated glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta), while also enhancing the activity of methylated PP2A, a key Tau phosphatase. Furthermore, AANCP exhibited superior efficacy in inhibiting heparin-induced Tau aggregation compared to the individual components. Analysis of autophagy markers indicated that the nanocomplex enhanced Tau clearance, as shown by increased LC3-II and Beclin-1 levels and reduced p62 levels. These results suggest AANCP as a promising therapeutic candidate that simultaneously reduces Tau phosphorylation and aggregation and facilitates autophagic Tau clearance, offering a potent, synergistic strategy for treating Alzheimer's disease.
Age-related neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), are characterized by the accumulation of pathological Tau protein (tauopathy), which drives neurotoxicity and cognitive decline. Although SUMOylation significantly influences tauopathy, the underlying mechanisms remain largely elusive. Here, utilizing a bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) assay to monitor Tau-Tau aggregation and screen for SUMO E3 ligases, we identified PIAS1 as a critical driver of Tau pathology. Genetic analysis of the UK Biobank cohort revealed that single nucleotide polymorphisms in the PIAS1 gene (rs8036154 and rs112677781) are significantly associated with a reduced risk of AD. Consistent with this clinical relevance, PIAS1 expression is upregulated in postmortem AD brains, aging PS19 tauopathy mice, aged wild-type mice, aged lemurs, and neurons stimulated with amyloid-beta or lipopolysaccharide. Viral-mediated modulation of PIAS1 in vivo demonstrated that PIAS1 promotes Tau hyperphosphorylation and aggregation, thereby exacerbating synaptic dysfunction and cognitive deficits. Mechanistically, we found that PIAS1 directly interacts with and mediates the SUMOylation of glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta (GSK3β) at lysine residues 183 and 271. This specific SUMOylation reduces inhibitory phosphorylation at Ser9, consequently enhancing GSK3β-mediated Tau kinase activity. Importantly, we engineered a cell-permeable blocking peptide designed to disrupt the PIAS1-GSK3β interaction. Administration of this peptide effectively suppressed GSK3β activation and mitigated tauopathy and neurodegeneration in both in vitro and in vivo models. Together, our findings uncover a novel PIAS1-GSK3β signaling axis in tauopathy and provide a promising targeted therapeutic strategy for Alzheimer's disease.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.
Sepsis is frequently accompanied by central nervous system involvement, leading to sepsis-associated encephalopathy characterized by neuroinflammation, microvascular dysfunction, and neuronal injury. Despite increasing recognition of its clinical impact, effective neuroprotective strategies remain limited. Modafinil (MOD), a wakefulness-promoting agent, has recently attracted attention for its anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and neuroprotective properties in experimental models. Experimental sepsis was induced by intraperitoneal administration of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in adult female Wistar rats. Animals were randomly assigned to four groups: control, LPS, LPS plus MOD, and MOD alone. Cerebral tissue was harvested six hours after LPS administration. Caspase-3 and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) expressions were assessed by immunohistochemistry. Oxidative stress was evaluated by measuring total oxidant status (TOS), total antioxidant status (TAS), and the oxidative stress index (OSI) in cerebral tissue homogenates. Gene expression levels of AKT1, glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta (GSK3B), sirtuin 1 (SIRT1), and heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) were analyzed by quantitative PCR. LPS administration produced significant increases in Caspase-3 and TNF-α immunoreactivity in both cerebral cortex and cerebellum. At the oxidative stress level, LPS significantly elevated TOS and OSI while reducing TAS, indicating a pronounced shift toward pro-oxidant conditions. At the molecular level, LPS significantly increased GSK3B expression while reducing HO-1 expression. MOD treatment significantly reduced Caspase-3 and TNF-α immunoreactivity in both regions, restored the oxidative balance as evidenced by significantly attenuated TOS and OSI levels, and significantly suppressed GSK3B upregulation, whereas its effect on HO-1, AKT1, and SIRT1 expression did not reach statistical significance. MOD mitigates sepsis-induced cerebral and cerebellar injury by attenuating neuroinflammation, oxidative stress, and apoptosis. The accompanying decrease in GSK3B expression suggests that GSK3β-related signaling may contribute to these effects, although this relationship is associative rather than causal. MOD may therefore warrant further evaluation as a neuroprotective agent in sepsis-related CNS injury.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42417900 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42439688 is a review article
The metadherin (MTDH)-staphylococcal nuclease domain-containing protein 1 (SND1) interaction is a functionally important protein-protein interaction implicated in tumor progression, making it an attractive but challenging therapeutic target. In this study, we employed an integrated in silico-to-in vitro virtual screening workflow to identify small-molecule disruptors of the MTDH-SND1 interface from a focused library of 1487 N-aryl-N'-heteroaryl ureas. After sequential filtering, four compounds (C1-C4) were prioritized for long-timescale evaluation. Docking showed that all four hits occupied the targeted SND1 interfacial hot-spot pocket with binding modes consistent with disruption of MTDH recognition. The 1000 ns MD simulations, together with MM/PBSA, protein-protein disruption metrics, and free energy landscape analyses, revealed ligand-dependent destabilization of the complex, with C3 producing the strongest weakening of the MTDH-SND1 interface and the broadest conformational redistribution, while C4 showed a somewhat weaker but still favorable profile. ADMET prediction indicated that all compounds satisfied basic drug-likeness criteria, although C3 displayed greater developability liabilities, whereas C4 showed the most balanced predicted pharmacokinetic and toxicity profile. Experimental validation using split-luciferase complementation assays confirmed concentration-dependent inhibition of the MTDH-SND1 interaction by all four compounds in both cell-free and cell-based formats, with C3 showing the greatest potency (cell-free IC50 = 2.81 ± 0.31 μM; cell-based IC50 = 11.30 ± 1.80 μM), followed by C4, C1, and C2, and with minimal activity in the linked-luciferase counter-screen. Collectively, these findings identify N-aryl-N'-heteroaryl ureas as a promising scaffold for MTDH-SND1 PPI disruption, establish C3 as the leading hit, and support C4 as a valuable secondary scaffold for future optimization.© 2026 Deutsche Pharmazeutische Gesellschaft.
Antimicrobial resistance poses a fundamental global threat, necessitating new strategies for effective therapies. Cystobactamids, a class of antibacterial agents targeting bacterial gyrase and topoisomerase IV, represent a non-traditional chemical scaffold with broad-spectrum activity. For toxicological de-risking, we performed a comprehensive profiling on eukaryotic cells, focusing on cytotoxicity, genotoxicity, and mitochondrial toxicity, demonstrating cellular safety and superoxide scavenging properties. Studies in zebrafish embryos assessed developmental, cardiovascular, and hepatic toxicity, indicating a favorable in vivo safety profile. Metabolism studies revealed glucuronidation and amide bond hydrolysis as key pathways, whereby cystobactamid metabolic stability substantially improved by cobicistat co-treatment. Affinity-based protein profiling identified the cholesterol- and HCV-receptor scavenger receptor class B member 1 (SCARB1) as a primary eukaryotic off-target protein, with cystobactamids shown to inhibit SCARB1´s function, preventing hepatitis C virus pseudoparticle entry into cells. These findings suggest a high therapeutic potential for cystobactamids and highlight SCARB1 as a primary eukaryotic target.© 2025. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42294496 is a review article
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) remodels the bone marrow microenvironment and can spread to extramedullary sites, a feature associated with adverse clinical outcomes. Here, we identify low-density lipoprotein receptor class A domain-containing 2 (LDLRAD2) as a driver of extramedullary infiltration (EMI) through analyses of patient samples, public datasets, AML cell models, and xenografts. LDLRAD2 increased glucose consumption, lactate production, endothelial tube formation, spleen infiltration, and microvascular density, whereas its knockdown reduced these phenotypes. Mechanistically, LDLRAD2 interacted with metadherin (MTDH) and activated PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling, thereby promoting glycolysis, angiogenesis, and EMI. Inhibition of LDLRAD2 or treatment with 2-deoxyglucose suppressed glycolysis-associated angiogenic effects. These findings support LDLRAD2-associated metabolic and angiogenic remodeling as a mechanism underlying EMI in AML and highlight a potential therapeutic vulnerability.© 2026 The Author(s).
The metadherin (MTDH)-staphylococcal nuclease domain-containing protein 1 (SND1) interaction is an oncogenic protein-protein interaction (PPI) linked to cancer cell survival, progression, and metastasis, but small-molecule disruptors remain scarce. Here, we developed an integrated in silico-to-in vitro workflow to discover 1 H-indazole-3-carboxylic acid derivatives as MTDH-SND1 PPI disruptors. A focused library of 399 compounds was processed through a funnel-based screening pipeline comprising drug-likeness and PAINS/reactivity filtering, diversity/purchasability triage, AutoDock Vina docking, and short molecular dynamics (MD) refinement with MM/PBSA rescoring. Three compounds (IC1-IC3) were prioritized for 1,000-ns MD simulations and mechanistic analysis. Docking and MD showed that all three compounds bind the targeted SND1 interfacial groove, but with different functional consequences. PPI-oriented MM/PBSA, FEL, and trajectory-based disruption metrics consistently ranked IC2 as the strongest predicted disruptor, IC1 as a moderate disruptor, and IC3 as a non-disruptive interfacial binder despite favorable direct binding energy. Free-energy landscape analysis further showed that IC2 most strongly remodeled the conformational landscape of the MTDH-SND1 complex, whereas IC3 remained confined to a more stable, non-disruptive basin. Split-luciferase complementation assays validated these predictions. In cell-free assays, IC50 values were 2.94 ± 0.35 µM (IC2), 4.19 ± 0.48 µM (IC1), and 116.29 ± 5.21 µM (IC3). In SCP28 cell-based assays, IC50 values were 12.08 ± 1.4 µM, 18.0 ± 2.1 µM, and 337 ± 12.9 µM, respectively, while linked-luciferase counter-screen IC50 values exceeded 1,000 µM for all compounds. ADMETlab 3.0 profiling identified IC1 as the most balanced developability candidate, whereas IC2 remained the lead efficacy-prioritized hit for subsequent optimization efforts.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
Diabetic nephropathy (DN) stands as a primary contributor to end-stage renal disease. Podocyte injury is a key factor underlying proteinuria in DN. Metadherin (MTDH) participates in podocyte apoptosis and promotes renal tubular injury in DN. However, its role in podocyte damage and podocyte cytoskeleton remodeling requires further investigation. PTEN plays a crucial role in maintaining podocyte integrity; however, the mechanisms governing PTEN stability in DN remain poorly understood. This study is aimed at investigating the specific functional role of MTDH in PTEN regulation using db/db diabetic mice, human kidney biopsy samples from DN patients, and cultured mouse podocytes exposed to high glucose (HG). MTDH expression was markedly increased in DN kidneys and HG-stimulated podocytes. Elevated MTDH resulted in decreased PTEN protein expression levels without altering PTEN mRNA expression, suggesting a posttranscriptional regulatory mechanism. Further assays demonstrated that MTDH promoted PTEN degradation through the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. Through bioinformatics analysis of the GSE96804 dataset from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database, obtaining 13,289 differentially expressed genes and comparing them with the known ubiquitin ligase-encoding genes obtained from the Genecards database, we identified candidate hub genes involved in PTEN ubiquitination-mediated degradation. RNA sequencing identified ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme E2N (UBE2N) as a critical downstream mediator positively regulated by MTDH. Subsequent coimmunoprecipitation experiments confirmed direct interactions between PTEN and UBE2N, enhancing PTEN ubiquitination. Knockdown of UBE2N attenuated MTDH-induced PTEN degradation and podocyte cytoskeletal remodeling. Collectively, our findings reveal a novel regulatory axis wherein MTDH accelerates PTEN ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation via UBE2N, contributing to podocyte injury in DN. Targeting MTDH-driven PTEN ubiquitination degradation presents a promising therapeutic strategy to protect podocytes and mitigate diabetic kidney injury.Copyright © 2026 Zerong Zheng et al. Human Mutation published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Radio-resistance hinders the effectiveness of radiotherapy for treating colorectal cancer (CRC) patients. Metadherin (MTDH) is proposed to exert a pivotal role in resistance to radiotherapy in various malignancies. This study aims to investigate the precise impact of MTDH on CRC radio-resistance.Through a fusion of 14 machine learning algorithms and SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) interpretability analysis, we pinpointed MTDH as a pivotal gene implicated in radio-resistance mechanisms. Subsequently, we investigated MTDH expression in CRC tissues using single-cell RNA sequencing data (scRNA-seq) and bulk transcriptomic data. MTDH level was also examined in tissues from 82 rectal cancer patients who were responsive or non-responsive to radiotherapy. We established radioresistant variants of SW480 and HT29 cells (designated SW480-R and HT29-R), then evaluated their characteristics using cell viability assays, apoptosis measurements, and γ-H2AX foci immunofluorescence. Then, MTDH silencing in radioresistant cells was applied to further investigate the impact of MTDH on regulating radiosensitivity for CRC cells.Machine learning analysis revealed a significant association between MTDH and radio-resistance. Furthermore, multi-omics data confirmed that MTDH expression was significantly upregulated in CRC tissues and, more notably, within the more malignant diploid single-cell subpopulation. Genes associated with MTDH were predominantly enriched in pathways related to damage repair, DNA damage response, epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), and stem cell differentiation, which were known to be critically involved in radio-resistance. Experimental validation confirmed significantly elevated MTDH expression in both radioresistant rectal cancer specimens and corresponding cellular models. High level of MTDH was positively related to several clinicopathological parameters, including tumor stage, differentiation, and lymph node status. Silencing of MTDH inhibited proliferative ability, increased apoptosis, and increased γ-H2AX foci numbers in CRC cells with radiation treatment.This study emphasizes the potential of MTDH as a promising prognostic and therapeutic target in response to radiotherapy for treating CRC patients.© 2026 The Authors. Published by Tech Science Press.
Chemical reprogramming holds transformative potential for regenerative medicine. However, the regulatory mechanisms governing cell fate transitions are not well understood. Here, we identify Interleukin-1 Receptor-Associated Kinase 4 (IRAK4) as a barrier to multi-lineage reprogramming. Pharmacological inhibition of IRAK4 enhances the reprogramming of mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) through a chemically activated multi-lineage priming (CaMP) state and extraembryonic endoderm (XEN)-like intermediates, increasing colony formation, and the expression of core XEN regulators (Sox17, Gata4, Sall4, and Foxa2). Genetic knockdown of Irak4 similarly accelerates reprogramming, whereas its overexpression blocks cell fate transitions. IRAK4 inhibition enhances chromatin accessibility and reshapes cell cycle dynamics, characterized by G0/G1 shortening and G2/M lengthening, potentially contributing to multi-lineage state establishment. Furthermore, IRAK4 suppression enhances the direct conversion of MEFs to neuron-like and hepatocyte-like cells, which exhibit enhanced functional maturity, including increased glycogen storage and improved detoxification capacity. Our findings establish IRAK4 as a regulator that constrains cellular plasticity potentially by coordinating chromatin accessibility and cell cycle dynamics.© 2026. The Author(s).
The PTPN22 gene encodes Lyp, a phosphatase involved in downregulating T-cell receptor signaling and modulating immune homeostasis. Although PTPN22 polymorphisms rs2476601 (R620W) and rs33996649 (R263Q) are associated with autoimmune diseases, their role in infectious diseases such as tuberculosis susceptibility remains unclear.To evaluate the association of PTPN22 polymorphisms with TB susceptibility and assess their functional relevance through gene expression profiling in a South Asian cohort.PTPN22 polymorphisms and expression in 111 TB patients and 85 controls were analyzed by ARMS-PCR and RT-qPCR, with association and predictive analyses performed using logistic regression, ROC, LD (Haploview), and SPSS v26.A significant association was observed between the rs33996649 C/T genotype and increased TB susceptibility (p < 0.008; OR = 5.87), while no significant association was found for rs2476601. Logistic regression indicating a stronger contribution to TB risk for rs33996649 (1.1279) compared to rs2476601 (0.2276). ROC curve analysis yielded an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.63, suggesting good predictive power for the combined genetic model. Linkage disequilibrium analysis demonstrated low correlation between the SNPs (D' ≈ 0.40, r2 ≈ 0), indicating independent inheritance. PTPN22 expression was modestly upregulated in TB patients (mean fold change = 1.2 vs. 1.0 in controls), though the difference was not statistically significant (p > 0.05), possibly reflecting compensatory immune regulation in variant carriers.The PTPN22 rs33996649 (R263Q) variant shows a significant independent association with TB susceptibility, highlighting its role as a genetic risk factor and potential target for immunogenetic research.© 2026. The Author(s).
Although quercetin has anti-allergic and anti-inflammatory properties, its role in allergic rhinitis (AR) and its potential molecular mechanism, especially whether it acts through the Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4)/myeloid differentiation primary response 88 (MyD88)/interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 4 (IRAK4) signaling pathway, is currently unclear. Therefore, an ovalbumin (OVA)-induced AR mouse model was established to investigate whether quercetin can treat AR by regulating the TLR4/MyD88/IRAK4 signaling pathway. OVA and aluminum hydroxide were injected intraperitoneally for sensitization, and OVA was dripped into the nose to establish a mouse model of AR. The mice were scored on behaviors such as scratching, sneezing and a runny nose to assess the success of the modeling. The treatment groups were given the relevant drugs (dexamethasone and quercetin) by gavage for 1 week after successful modeling. Following the completion of treatment, the serum OVA-IgE, IL-4, IL-13, IL-1β, IL-17 and IL-10 levels were measured; changes in the nasal mucosa were observed; protein and mRNA expression levels of TLR4, MyD88, IRAK4 and NF-κB in lung tissue were determined; and changes in the percentages of regulatory T cells (Tregs) and T helper 17 (Th17) cells in the spleen were assessed. The results showed that compared with the normal control (NC) group, the allergic symptom scores were >10 points, and the serum levels of OVA-IgE, IL-4, IL-13, IL-1β and IL-17 increased, whereas the serum level of IL-10 decreased in the OVA group. Detachment and necrosis of the nasal mucosa, accompanied by tissue edema and inflammatory cell infiltration, were observed in the OVA group. Compared with the NC group, the relative expression mRNA and protein levels of TLR4, MyD88, IRAK4 and NF-κB in lung tissues increased, the percentage of Tregs decreased and the percentage of Th17 cells increased in splenocytes of the OVA group. Based on these results, it was hypothesized that quercetin inhibits inflammatory responses and induces immune tolerance by regulating the TLR4/MyD88/IRAK4 signaling pathway in a mouse model of AR.Copyright: © 2026 Kang et al.
Waldenström macroglobulinemia (WM) is a rare indolent B-cell lymphoproliferative disorder characterized by bone marrow infiltration and monoclonal immunoglobulin M (IgM) secretion, which poses diagnostic challenges in the early stage. The present study reported on a 63-year-old male with WM presenting with cough, hyperviscosity syndrome (dizziness, weakness, fatigue, blurred vision), severe anemia and cold agglutination in August 2023. After 37˚C incubation to eliminate cold agglutination interference, laboratory tests confirmed severe anemia (hemoglobin, 54 g/l), hyperglobulinemia (globulin, 92 g/l) and markedly elevated serum IgM (83.6 g/l). Peripheral blood smear showed erythrocyte rouleaux formation and plasmacytoid lymphocytes. Bone marrow biopsy revealed 80% infiltration of B-lymphomatous cells, 10% abnormal plasma cells and only 10% residual normal hematopoietic cells. Serum/urine immunoelectrophoresis identified IgM-λ paraprotein and free λ light chains. Bone marrow flow cytometry detected a prominent abnormally mature B-lymphocyte population (72.2% of lymphocytes) positive for CD19, CD20 and cytoplasmic λ (cλ); partially positive for CD23, CD25 and CD27; and negative for CD5, CD10 and CD103. Abnormal plasma cells (0.3% of nucleated cells) showed cλ restriction; strong expression of CD38, CD138 and CD19; partial expression of CD20 and CD27; and absence of CD5, CD10 and CD56. Genetic testing confirmed the MYD88 innate immune signal transduction adaptor (MYD88) L265P mutation positivity via allele-specific PCR and 14q32/11q13 translocation negativity using fluorescence in vitro hybridization, confirming the diagnosis of WM. The patient received therapeutic plasma exchange (TPE) followed by bortezomib-dexamethasone chemotherapy, resulting in resolved cold agglutination, alleviated hyperviscosity syndrome and improved laboratory indicators. Follow-up was performed immediately after discharge; however, it was terminated after 1 month (November 2023) due to re-admission for pulmonary infection. In conclusion, cold agglutination is a pivotal diagnostic clue for WM; combined immunophenotyping and MYD88 L265P detection enables definitive diagnosis, and early TPE plus chemotherapy effectively ameliorates clinical manifestations.Copyright: © 2026 Zhang et al.
Baicalin has protective effects against a range of cardiovascular conditions, such as myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury, cardiac dysfunction, and apoptosis in cardiomyocytes. However, the underlying protective mechanisms in diabetic cardiomyopathy (DCM) remain unclear. The present study aimed to investigate the specific molecular mechanism activated by baicalin to ameliorate DCM. The effects of baicalin were investigated in vitro and its potential targets and pathways were identified using network pharmacology, molecular docking, echocardiography, reverse transcription PCR, ELISA, histopathology, immunofluorescence staining and western blotting. Baicalin significantly alleviated high-glucose (HG)-induced injury in H9c2 cells by inhibiting fibrotic markers, inflammatory factors and pyroptosis. Moreover, protein tyrosine phosphatase non-receptor type 22 (PTPN22) and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) were identified as crucial targets for baicalin. Molecular docking indicated that baicalin exhibited a strong binding affinity for PTPN22 and TNF. Baicalin successfully suppressed HG-induced pyroptosis, inflammation and fibrotic markers in addition to inhibiting the activation of TNF-α and PTPN22 signaling pathways. In addition, PTPN22-small interfering RNA treatment modulated pyroptosis in vitro. The present study offers insight into the key therapeutic mechanisms activated by baicalin, and its potential therapeutic targets, PTPN22 and TNF-α.Copyright: © 2026 Zhao et al.
Interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 4 (IRAK4) represents an attractive therapeutic target in inflammatory and oncological indications due to its pivotal role as a signaling mediator downstream of TLR and IL-1R. We previously reported a series of spirocyclic IRAK4 degraders and identified APH02174 as a selective, orally bioavailable degrader. However, its hERG inhibition, hepatocyte stability, and variable cross-species PK inspired further structural optimization. The optimization gave eight PROTACs (5-10, 14, and APH003) which exhibited high IRAK4 degradation ability (DC50 ≤ 2 nM, DC90 ≤ 10 nM, and Dmax ≥ 85%) in vitro. APH003 exhibited favorable PK parameters, low hERG inhibition, improved hepatocyte stability, and pronounced anti-inflammatory efficacy in animal models. Dose range-finding studies in rat and dog models supported its safety profile. Based on these improvements in safety, cross-species PK, efficacy, and preliminary toxicology, APH003 was selected as a preclinical candidate for GLP toxicological studies.
Targeted protein degradation has emerged as a promising drug modality, with potential applications across many immuno-inflammatory diseases. KT-474 is an orally bioavailable interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 4 (IRAK4) heterobifunctional degrader evaluated in clinical trials for atopic dermatitis and hidradenitis suppurativa. Here we present structural, biophysical, and computational characterization of an IRAK4:KT-474:CRBN/DDB1 complex. Cryo-EM structure of the complex reveals a unique and non-native protein-protein interaction (PPI) surface mediated by a network of polar and apolar contacts, including key hydrophobic engagements mediated by CRBN Phe150. This complex exhibits negative cooperativity, arising from an interplay between weakly favorable PPI and conformational flexibility of the degrader. Moreover, the structure provides insight into the selective degradation profile of KT-474. Our results offer important insights into the mechanism of action of KT-474 and highlight the value of cryo-EM structures in the optimization of protein degraders.© 2026. The Author(s).
Alveolar bone resorption, driven by imbalanced osteogenesis and osteolysis, is a hallmark of periodontitis and orthodontic complications, yet molecular mechanisms coordinating stromal-immune crosstalk remain elusive. Here, we identify receptor tyrosine kinase-like orphan receptor 2 (ROR2) in alveolar bone-derived mesenchymal stem cells (ABMSCs) as a critical suppressor of inflammatory osteolysis. Using conditional knockout mice, we demonstrate that ROR2 deficiency in ABMSCs exacerbates alveolar bone loss by amplifying CXCL8 secretion, which enhances osteoclastogenesis while impairing osteogenic differentiation. Mechanistically, ROR2 sequesters interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 4 (IRAK4) via its Ig-like C2 domain, disrupting Myddosome assembly and downstream IRF7-driven CXCL8 transcription. Genetic ablation of IRAK4 in ROR2-deficient ABMSCs rescues pathological bone remodeling, restoring osteoblast-osteoclast equilibrium. Building on these findings, we engineer a thermosensitive chitosan/β-glycerophosphate hydrogel loaded with CXCL8-neutralizing antibodies, which effectively attenuates periodontitis-induced bone loss in vivo by suppressing osteoclast coverage and preserving osteogenic capacity. Our work unveils a ROR2/IRAK4/CXCL8 regulatory axis in ABMSCs that governs stromal-immune crosstalk during inflammatory osteolysis, offering a translatable strategy to recalibrate bone homeostasis in periodontal and orthodontic disorders.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42320562 is a review article
Heterobifunctional degraders emerge as a novel pharmacologic strategy to treat inflammatory conditions. Previous data have indicated that inflammatory signaling via the myddosome complex is critical for kidney injury and fibrosis development. Within the myddosome, modulation of interleukin-1 receptor associated kinase 4 (IRAK4) by small molecule kinase inhibitors has been shown to reduce fibrosis, but has limited anti-inflammatory effect. Here we used a novel strategy to abrogate IRAK4 by means of targeted ubiquitination triggering proteasomal degradation. We tested the antifibrotic and anti-inflammatory activity of the small molecule IRAK4 degrader KTX-545 in vitro and in vivo in a model of acute kidney injury. Our results indicated that incubation with degrader resulted in abrogation of IRAK4 protein levels, and reduced formation of myddosome complex in primary kidney fibrogenic cells. In human kidney organoids, IRAK4 degradation reduced both extracellular matrix deposition, as well as fibrogenic gene expression caused by tubular damage. Further, the treatment resulted in inhibition of NF-kB activation and downstream inflammatory cytokine expression. In vivo, KTX-545 showed increased efficacy compared to the small molecule IRAK4 kinase inhibitor CA-4948 in ameliorating fibrosis following ischemia/reperfusion injury. Collectively, our results indicate that targeted degradation of IRAK4 is a new promising therapeutic approach for the treatment of renal fibrosing disorders.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42537739 is a review article
Lupus nephritis (LN), a severe complication of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), is closely associated with aberrant immune-inflammatory responses. Currently, reliable non-invasive biomarkers are lacking, and existing treatments remain limited. Targeting autoimmune and inflammatory pathways offers new therapeutic potential. Triptolide (TP), a diterpenoid triepoxide compound extracted from the traditional Chinese medicine Tripterygium wilfordii, exhibits potent immunosuppressive, anti-inflammatory, and anti-proteinuric effects, demonstrating remarkable efficacy in tumors, inflammation, autoimmune diseases, and kidney-related disorders. This study investigates the mechanism by which TP ameliorates LN through the hsa_circ_0001439/ELAVL1 axis to regulate TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) mRNA stability. In vitro (human renal tubular epithelial cell line) and in vivo (MRL/lpr mouse model) experiments were conducted. Renal function was assessed by measuring 24-hour urinary albumin, blood urea nitrogen, and serum creatinine levels. Serum levels of inflammatory cytokines, including tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interferon-gamma, and interleukin-2, were detected by ELISA. Renal histopathological changes were observed via hematoxylin-eosin and periodic acid-Schiff staining. The cytotoxicity of TP was determined using the cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) assay. The expression of hsa_circ_0001439, ELAVL1, and TRAF6 mRNA was measured by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Protein expression of TRAF6 and its downstream pathway components (phosphorylated p65/p65, phosphorylated p38/p38) was detected by Western blot. Apoptosis was analyzed by flow cytometry, and intracellular reactive oxygen species levels were measured to assess oxidative damage. Immunoglobulin G and complement component 3 deposition were evaluated by immunofluorescence. The interactions among hsa_circ_0001439, ELAVL1, and TRAF6 were investigated using RNA pull-down, fluorescence in situ hybridization-immunofluorescence, RNA immunoprecipitation, and dual-luciferase reporter assays. TRAF6 mRNA stability was examined following Actinomycin D treatment. Bioinformatics analysis revealed upregulation of hsa_circ_0001439 in LN (P<0.05). TP improved renal function and histopathology in LN mice (P<0.05). Silencing hsa_circ_0001439 or ELAVL1 alleviated renal injury (P<0.05), while their overexpression reversed TP's therapeutic effects (P<0.05). Hsa_circ_0001439 bound to ELAVL1 to stabilize TRAF6 mRNA (P<0.05). In rescue experiments, TP reduced inflammation (P<0.05), but hsa_circ_0001439/ELAVL1 overexpression counteracted this effect (P<0.05). TRAF6 inhibition further mitigated oxidative damage (P<0.05), confirming TRAF6 as a key target. This study elucidates that TP alleviates LN by inhibiting TRAF6-driven inflammation via the hsa_circ_0001439/ELAVL1 axis, providing a potential therapeutic target for LN treatment.Copyright© 2025 Polish Physiological Society.
Carboxyl terminus of HSC70-interacting protein (CHIP) serves as a quality control protein that involves in inflammation and immunity, bone remodeling and tumorigenesis. However, the role of CHIP in joint disease such as rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is less explored.Wild-type and Chip knockdown mice were used to establish a collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) model to assess arthritis progression through clinical index and histopathological markers (synovial hyperplasia, inflammatory infiltration and cartilage damage). SiRNA and lentivirus were respectively used to knockdown and overexpress CHIP in CIA fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS), investigating its regulatory effect on proliferation, migration, invasion and inflammation. Western blotting and immunofluorescence analysis were performed to assess the effect of CHIP on Tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) and to elucidate the underlying mechanism. Adeno-associated virus (AAV) mediated delivery of Chip was used to evaluate its therapeutic effects in CIA mice.CHIP significantly decreased in the synovium of CIA mice and RA patients compare to control. CHIP deficiency exacerbated synovial inflammation, cartilage degradation, and bone erosion in CIA, further underscoring its protective role in joint homeostasis. Moreover, knockdown of CHIP promoted the proliferation, migration and expression of inflammatory cytokines in CIA-FLS, while CHIP overexpression in CIA-FLS showed the opposite results. Mechanistically, CHIP interacted with TRAF6 and promoted the degradation of TRAF6. CHIP inhibited the migration and pro-inflammatory phenotypes of CIA-FLS via TRAF6/p65 pathway. Further, AAV mediated CHIP gene therapy by intra-articular administration effectively attenuated the progression of CIA by inhibiting the synovial inflammation and expression of TRAF6.Collectively, these findings demonstrated the critical regulatory role of CHIP in RA. Therefore, exploiting the protective effects of CHIP may represent a potential therapeutic strategy for RA.These findings not only advance our understanding of CHIP's regulatory role in RA but also highlight the value of genetic animal models in orthopaedic drug discovery.© 2026 The Authors.
Metabolic dysregulation is a hallmark of tumorigenesis and profoundly impacts immune surveillance; however, the underlying mechanisms and targeted treatments remain limited in colorectal cancer (CRC). Here, we utilize public databases, mouse models, and multi-omics analyses to identify N-acetyltransferase 1 (NAT1) as a critical prognostic-associated gene that emerges as a significant modulator of tumor immunity in CRC. We demonstrate that NAT1 suppresses glycolysis and lactate production, thereby promoting an immune-activated tumor microenvironment (TME). Mechanistically, NAT1 interacts with enolase 1 (ENO1), a key glycolytic enzyme, acetylating it at lysine 343 (K343) and thereby inhibiting its activity. However, loss of NAT1 in tumor cells leads to enhanced ENO1 activation, which in turn drives glycolysis and lactate production. Lactate then binds to TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6), promoting its oligomerization and activation, leading to K63-linked ubiquitination of PD-L1, which enhances PD-L1 stability and facilitates immune evasion. Importantly, low NAT1-expressing tumors from CRC patients show increased sensitivity to anti-PD-1 therapy, and NAT1 deficiency significantly improves the efficacy of anti-PD-L1 antibody treatment in preclinical mouse models. Collectively, our findings highlight the critical role of NAT1 in reshaping the TME and suggest that targeting the NAT1-ENO1-lactate axis represents a promising therapeutic strategy to enhance immunotherapy in CRC.© 2026 The Author(s). MedComm published by Sichuan International Medical Exchange & Promotion Association (SCIMEA) and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.
Prostate cancer remains a significant therapeutic challenge in male urologic oncology. Characterized by an immunosuppressive microenvironment, it is commonly described as an immunologically "cold" tumor. This study elucidates the role of TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) within the immune landscape of prostate cancer. We observed marked downregulation of TRAF6 in both patient-derived tissues and cultured prostate cancer cell lines. Functional assays demonstrated that TRAF6 upregulation robustly suppresses cancer cell proliferation and migration. Mechanistically, we discovered that TRAF6 sensitizes prostate cancer cells to CD8+ T cell-mediated ferroptosis by targeting Lipocalin 2 (LCN2) for proteasomal degradation. The anti-tumor effects of TRAF6 overexpression were reversed upon LCN2 restoration. Further analyses showed that TRAF6 promotes LCN2 ubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation. Our results reveal a previously unrecognized pathway by which TRAF6 modulates tumor cell susceptibility to CD8+ T cell-associated ferroptosis, highlighting the translational potential of targeting the TRAF6-LCN2 signaling axis in prostate cancer therapy.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier B.V.
The NLRP3 (nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain, leucine-rich repeat-containing receptor family pyrin domain-containing 3) inflammasome plays a causal role in driving atherosclerosis. HIF (hypoxia-inducible factor) prolyl hydroxylase EGLN3 (Caenorhabditis elegans gene egl-9 [EGLN] 3) inhibits NFκB (nuclear factor kappa B) signaling independently of its hydroxylase activity. This study determined the role and mechanism of EGLN3 prolyl hydroxylase in regulating NLRP3 inflammasome activation, vascular inflammation, and the development of atherosclerosis.ApoE-/- mice deficient for global EGLN3, macrophage EGLN3, or EGLN3 hydroxylase activity were used to explore the role of EGLN3 and its activity in atherosclerosis. MCC950 was applied to antagonize the NLRP3 inflammasome in mice. Various cellular and molecular methods were used for mechanistic studies.EGLN3 elimination promotes the production of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species and the release of mitochondrial DNA in macrophages. EGLN3 ablation enhances NLRP3 inflammasome assembly and promotes GSDMD (gasdermin D) cleavage, IL (interleukin) 1β production, and pyroptosis of macrophages. TRAF6 (TNF receptor-associated factor 6) catalyzes lysine (K) 63-linked NLRP3 ubiquitination and potentiates NLRP3 inflammasome assembly and activation, which can be antagonized by EGLN3. EGLN3 also blunts K63-polyubiquitination of TRAF6. EGLN3 deficiency enhances lipid uptake through increasing CD36 expression and impedes cholesterol efflux by declining ABCA1 (ATP-binding cassette transporter A1) expression, thereby boosting macrophage foam cell formation. EGLN3 depletion restrains MerTK expression and efferocytosis of macrophages. Inhibition of the NLRP3 inflammasome counteracts the impacts of EGLN3 deficiency on foam cell formation and efferocytosis. Global and macrophage-specific ablation of EGLN3 exacerbates vascular inflammation and instability of the atherosclerotic plaques in ApoE-/- mice. Pharmacological inhibition of the NLRP3 inflammasome ameliorates the detrimental effect of EGLN3 deficiency on vascular inflammation and the formation and stability of the plaques. Genetic inactivation of EGLN3 activity retains its ability to restrict NLRP3 inflammasome activation and atherosclerosis development.EGLN3 inhibits NLRP3 inflammasome assembly and activation through antagonizing TRAF6-induced NLRP3 ubiquitination and activation. EGLN3 suppresses vascular inflammation and atherosclerosis by modulating pyroptosis, foam cell formation, and efferocytosis of macrophages through targeting the NLRP3 inflammasome. EGLN3 protects against atherosclerosis independently of its hydroxylase activity.
This study was designed to comprehensively analyze the benefit effect and underlying mechanism of egg yolk-derived peptide VPF (Val-Pro-Phe) in bone development by integrating network pharmacology, molecular docking/dynamics simulation, and zebrafish in vivo experiments. Results demonstrated that VPF exhibited dose-dependent intervention effects within the concentration range of 0.2-10 μg/mL in normal and bone dysplasia zebrafish. Specifically, 0.2 μg/mL of VPF exhibited significant enhancements in total length (TL), mineralization, and swimming distance by 4.01%, 14.00% (P < 0.05), and 7.31% in normal zebrafish model, whereas 1 μg/mL of VPF led to significant increases in the aforementioned indexes by 6.30%, 45.26%, and 51.05% (P < 0.05) in bone dysplasia zebrafish model. Then, network pharmacology revealed that the highest correlation between VPF in improving bone development and osteoclast differentiation pathway, with osteoprotegerin (OPG) being the core node in this pathway. Molecular docking results showed that VPF exhibited the highest binding affinity for OPG, and this interaction was further validated by 200 ns molecular dynamics simulations, which demonstrated the stability of the VPF-OPG complex. Furthermore, VPF upregulated the gene expression of OPG, and downregulated the gene expression of the receptor activator of the NF-κB ligand (RANKL) and TNF receptor-associated factor 6 Gene (TRAF6), and downregulated the RANKL/OPG ratio in zebrafish. These data indicate that VPF alleviates skeletal dysplasia primarily by OPG-mediated suppression of osteoclast differentiation within the OPG/RANKL/RANK axis, thereby supporting its potential value as a functional food ingredient for promoting bone development.© 2026 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
Post-menopausal osteoporosis is characterized by overactive bone resorption in response to estrogen withdrawal. As Receptor Activator of NF-κB ligand (RANKL)-induced auto-ubiquitination of TNF receptor-associated factor 6 (TRAF6) on its K124 residue promotes osteoclastogenesis, inhibiting TRAF6K124 auto-ubiquitination may be a promising therapeutic strategy for post-menopausal osteoporosis. We investigated the impact of the synthetic dinitrothiophenol SN-2 (4-(Dimethylamino)-2,6-bis[[N-[2-[(2-nitrophenyl)dithio]-ethyl]amino]methyl]pyridine) on TRAF6K124 auto-ubiquitination, osteoclast generation, and osteoporotic bone loss. In vitro, SN-2 inhibited RANKL-induced osteoclast differentiation and osteoclast marker expression in a dose-dependent manner. SN-2 also inhibited RANKL-induced F-actin ring formation and bone resorption in vitro. SN-2 suppressed RANKL-induced TRAF6K124 auto-ubiquitination (TRAF6-Ub), TRAF6's binding to Transforming Growth Factor Beta-Activated Kinase 1 (TAK1), and TAK1 phosphorylation, thereby inhibiting downstream NF-κB and c-Jun N-terminal Kinase (JNK) signaling pathways critical to osteoclast differentiation. In an ovariectomized mouse model of osteoporosis, SN-2 ameliorated estrogen-deficiency-induced bone loss, improved femoral biomechanical parameters, and inhibited osteoclastogenesis in vivo. SN-2 may show promise as a therapeutic agent in treating bone disorders characterized by RANKL signaling over-activation and excessive bone resorption.© 2026 Published by Elsevier Inc.
Brain injury after hypoxia-ischemia (HI) is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in term and near-term neonates worldwide. The ferret is a promising translational model to study HI due to its gyrified brain and white-to-gray matter ratio that more closely resembles humans compared to rodents. Caffeine, an adenosine A2A receptor (A2AR) antagonist, shows neuroprotective potential after HI, but its effects have not been fully characterized. We sought to evaluate caffeine's effect on neuronal cell death, cytotoxicity, and inflammatory and oxidative stress markers in a term-equivalent ferret organotypic brain slice model of HI. Slices were cultured for 72 h, exposed to two hours of oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD), and randomized to OGD alone, OGD with caffeine (20 or 50 mg/L), or OGD with caffeine and an A2AR agonist. Healthy slices served as controls. Outcomes included global cell death, regional cell death, microglial morphology, and expression of inflammatory and oxidative stress genes (46-48 slices/group for cell death assays and 18 slices/group for imaging, balanced by sex). Caffeine 50 mg/L significantly reduced global cell death compared to OGD (p = 0.02), and this effect persisted despite co-administration of an A2AR agonist (p = 0.01), suggesting that protection was not primarily mediated through A2AR signaling. Caffeine also did not change regional pyknotic nuclei counts (p > 0.05). Caffeine altered microglial morphology, increasing the proportion of microglia with features characteristic of control conditions. OGD significantly increased expression of inflammatory and oxidative stress-related genes (p < 0.05) compared with control slices, whereas caffeine did not significantly alter gene expression. In summary, caffeine partially reversed global cell death after OGD and altered microglial morphology. Larger, higher-powered studies are needed to further investigate caffeine's effects on neonatal HI.
G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) heteromerization represents a key organizational mechanism in cell signaling, but it remains difficult to determine, in native cells, how receptor-associated signals are distributed between non-interacting and heteromer-associated states. Here, we address this limitation by combining proximity ligation assay (PLA) with the newly applied MolBoolean methodology, enabling in situ quantification of the partitioning of adenosine A2A and cannabinoid CB2 receptor-associated signals between non-interacting fractions and A2A-CB2 heteromeric complexes in primary microglia. We show that resting microglia contain detectable A2A-CB2 heteromers together with a substantial non-interacting A2A-associated signal fraction. Selective activation of either receptor promotes redistribution of the detectable receptor-associated signal toward the heteromer-associated fraction. Ligand-induced redistribution also occurred in HEK-293T cells expressing the two receptors. In contrast, pro-inflammatory activation of primary microglia with LPS/IFN-γ markedly changes the basal organization of the receptor system, increasing the proportion of MolBoolean-detectable signal associated with A2A-CB2 complexes, with approximately 70% of the detectable receptor-associated signal corresponding to heteromeric complexes. In this inflammatory context, further agonist-induced repartitioning is strongly limited compared with that observed in resting microglia. These findings identify inflammation-dependent receptor partitioning as a quantitatively measurable feature of microglial A2A and CB2 receptor organization and provide a framework for interpreting how receptor context may influence future studies of A2A-CB2 pharmacology under neuroinflammatory conditions.© 2026 The Author(s). GLIA published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42446536 is a review article
An acetaminophen (APAP) overdose is the leading cause of drug-induced hepatotoxicity and acute liver failure (ALF) in the United States. While N-acetylcysteine (NAC), is highly effective when administered early after an overdose, its efficacy decreases with delayed administration. Since most patients present late to the clinic, there is an urgent need for novel late-acting therapeutic options to prevent progression to ALF. We previously demonstrated the benefit of delayed activation of the Adenosine A2B Receptor (A2BAR) in attenuating APAP-induced hepatotoxicity and this study focuses on its effects on liver recovery after injury. Fasted male C57BL/6J mice were treated with 300 mg/kg APAP, followed by activation of A2BAR 6 or 9 h later and sacrifice 24, 48 or 72 h post-APAP with evaluation of liver injury, the innate immune response and liver regeneration. Delayed activation of A2BAR significantly enhanced liver recovery, with accelerated repopulation of the liver by Kupffer cells, increased macrophage migration to the necrotic areas and their faster resolution. A2BAR activation also upregulated lipid metabolism-related genes in non-parenchymal cells and cell proliferation and metabolism genes in hepatocytes. Remarkably, genes such as Cidec and Plin2 , crucial for lipid droplet formation, were upregulated, indicating that A2ABR activation enhances lipid metabolism which plays a key role in providing energy for liver regeneration. Overall, these findings highlight the potential of A2BAR activation not only in protecting against liver injury, but also in promoting and accelerating liver regeneration by modulating the innate immune responses and metabolic pathways.
Chronic inflammation is a defining feature of tumor progression, with neutrophils serving as key mediators linking cancer to systemic immune dysregulation. While their pro-tumoral functions in circulation and tumor sites are well established, how tumor progression influences neutrophil biology within the bone marrow remains poorly understood. We hypothesized that tumor progression is associated with emergency granulopoiesis, alterations in the G-CSF/G-CSFR axis, and functional changes in bone marrow neutrophils. This study aimed to investigate how tumor progression reconfigures granulopoiesis and neutrophil function within the bone marrow during systemic immune remodelling.Using Dalton's lymphoma murine model, we examined the dynamics of bone marrow neutrophils at various stages of tumor progression. Neutrophil frequency, receptor expression, and effector functions were measured through flow cytometry, immunocytochemistry, NETosis, and phagocytosis assays.Tumor-bearing mice displayed a marked expansion of BM Ly6G+ neutrophils, concomitant with elevated G-CSF levels and increased G-CSFR expression, confirming the induction of emergency granulopoiesis. These changes were paralleled by altered retention and egress signals, with upregulated CXCR2 and downregulated CXCR4, indicating accelerated mobilization of neutrophils and disrupted homeostasis of the bone marrow microenvironment. Functional profiling revealed a profound shift in the BM neutrophil phenotype: enhanced granule proteins such as NE, MPO, MMP-9, and cathepsin G, increased ROS generation, heightened NETosis, and augmented phagocytosis.Together, these data demonstrate that tumor progression is associated not only with systemic neutrophil expansion but also with marked alterations in neutrophil abundance, activation status, and effector functions within the bone marrow. These findings suggest that tumor-associated immune remodulation may originate, at least in part, within the hematopoietic niche and precede the accumulation of activated neutrophils in peripheral tissues. Furthermore, the concomitant alterations in G-CSF/G-CSFR signaling and the CXCR2/CXCR4 axis highlight potential mechanisms underlying neutrophil remodeling during tumor progression. Collectively, our findings identify the bone marrow as an important site of tumor-associated neutrophil reprogramming and provide a rationale for exploring neutrophil-associated signaling pathways as therapeutic targets in cancer-associated systemic inflammation.Copyright © 2026 European Federation of Immunological Societies. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
ADCY5-related dyskinesia is an autosomal dominant movement disorder with limited treatment options because many standard medications are ineffective. Caffeine has shown efficacy in ADCY5-related dyskinesia as an adenosine A2A receptor antagonist, but optimal dosing remains uncertain.We report a 24-year-old woman with paroxysmal dyskinesia since early childhood, consisting of chorea, dystonia, and myoclonus upon waking. More than 15 medications failed. Whole-exome sequencing identified a mosaic ADCY5 variant (p.R418Q, 7% variant allele frequency). Caffeine escalation from 100 to 600 mg worsened symptoms. Four months later, she found that unsweetened canned coffee containing approximately 100 mg of caffeine per can, taken 1-3 times daily, reduced her symptoms and helped her maintain daily employment. In a self-controlled analysis of 39 coffee-intake events, dyskinesia episodes during the 6 h after coffee intake were significantly fewer than during the preceding 6 h (p = 0.002).This case demonstrates successful symptom control in ADCY5-related dyskinesia using patient-directed, low-dose caffeine therapy. The striking response suggests a narrow therapeutic window for caffeine in this condition and that patient self-titration may be valuable in optimizing treatment response.© 2026 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42406251 is a review article
Leishmania infantum and Leishmania donovani are protozoan parasites that cause visceral leishmaniasis, a potentially fatal disease targeting the liver, spleen and bone marrow. To survive, these parasites manipulate host macrophage microbicidal responses and metabolic pathways. Here, we demonstrate that the host serine proteases neutrophil elastase (NE) and cathepsin G (CG), acting in concert with Toll-like receptors TLR2, TLR3, and TLR4, induce the inflammatory cytokines IFN-α and TNF-α to control L. infantum infection in macrophages. Conversely, in vivo experiments revealed that while NE and CG are necessary for inflammatory responses, including IL-12, nitric oxide, and CCL2 production, they unexpectedly promote splenic parasitism. CG-deficient mice failed to recruit Ly6Chi myeloid cells to the spleen, providing a potential mechanism for their reduced parasite burden. Finally, our data suggest that unlike L. donovani, L. infantum cannot hijack cellular host serine peptidases and TLR signalling for survival, yet it remains dependent on these host enzymes to establish systemic spleen infection.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42530473 is a review article
A concise and efficient synthetic route to novel 1,2,4-oxadiazole-isoxazoline hybrids 7 has been developed via regioselective 1,3-dipolar cycloaddition of in situ-generated nitrile oxides with 3-(p-substituted-aryl)-5-vinyl-1,2,4-oxadiazoles 6. The target compounds 7a-ay were obtained in moderate to excellent yields (16-97%) and fully characterized by IR, NMR, and HRMS analyses. The reactions exhibited high regioselectivity, exclusively affording 5-isoxazoline derivatives, while substituent effects played a decisive role in modulating reaction efficiency. In silico studies revealed that all hybrids 7a-ay display strong binding affinities toward the adenosine A₁ receptor (-10.0 to -8.3 kcal/mol), surpassing the co-crystallized ligand and engaging in key stabilizing interactions within the binding pocket. Furthermore, ADMET predictions indicated favorable drug-likeness, high gastrointestinal absorption, and suitable physicochemical properties. Overall, these findings identify 1,2,4-oxadiazole-isoxazoline hybrids as promising and tunable scaffolds for the development of adenosine A₁ receptor-targeted agents; however, further structural optimization and comprehensive biological evaluation are required to fully validate their therapeutic potential.Copyright © 2026, Mohammed et al.
Adolescence is a period of several brain changes, making it especially vulnerable to external influences. Abuse of psychoactive drugs, such as caffeine (CAFF), generates changes in cognitive functions. The main pharmacological targets of CAFF are mainly the A1R and A2AR adenosine receptors, which can regulate GABA homeostasis. We therefore evaluated the influence of CAFF intake upon GABA uptake and release in the frontal cortex (FC) of adolescent Swiss mice and addressed the underlying mechanism. Mice were treated for 5 days with a subcutaneous injection of CAFF (10, 20, and 40 mg/kg) every 24 h, and the FC dissected out at 1 h after the last injection for measurement of [3H]-GABA uptake and release, cAMP accumulation, and density levels of GAT-1, A1R, A2AR, PKA, and PKC. Calcium (Ca2+) imaging was performed on primary neuronal cultures treated with CAFF (200 μM). CAFF increased [3H]-GABA uptake at all doses studied, an effect reversed by incubation with the selective GAT-1 uptake inhibitor, NO-711 (10 μM). At 20 and 40 mg/kg, CAFF also increased [3H]-GABA release. CAFF also increased A1R, but not A2AR levels. The influence of CAFF involves pPKC activity since CAFF enhanced the pPKC/PKC ratio, while the PKC-inhibitor Gö 6983 (100 nM) reversed the facilitatory action of CAFF upon GABA transport and prevented the CAFF-induced increase in the frequency of Ca2+ transients in neuronal cell cultures. We conclude that CAFF alters GABAergic homeostasis in the FC, increasing GABA transport through PKC-activity modulation.© 2026 International Society for Neurochemistry.
To elucidate the role of adenosine A1 receptors (A1R) in the medial parabrachial nucleus (MPB) for bidirectional sleep-wake regulation and homeostatic control. Bilateral microinjections targeted the MPB in rats, administering: adenosine (0.5/1.5/4.5 nmol), A1R agonist CPA (1.5 nmol), A1R antagonist CPT (1.7 nmol), or adenosine deaminase inhibitor EHNA (2.0 nmol). Sleep architecture was quantified via EEG/EMG, with histological verification of MPB targeting. Adenosineergic modulation: 4.5 nmol adenosine increased NREM sleep by 149.1% (P = 0.0002) and reduced wakefulness by 47.6% (P = 0.0004). Endogenous amplification: EHNA elevated NREM sleep by 85.2% (P = 0.019), confirming physiological adenosine action. A1R-specificity: CPA mimicked adenosine (NREM ↑63.2%, P = 0.011), whereas CPT increased wakefulness by 46.3% (P = 0.021). Homeostasis disruption: Following sleep deprivation，CPT attenuated post-deprivation rebound (NREM recovery ↓43.8%, P = 0.042; REM rebound abolished). A1R in the MPB critically regulates NREM sleep and contributes to homeostatic responses through bidirectional adenosine signaling, identifying this brainstem nucleus as a novel regulatory hub. Dose-dependent efficacy (threshold: 1.5 nmol) suggests therapeutic potential for sleep disorders.© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Japanese Society of Sleep Research 2026. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.
Adenosine, acting through A1 adenosine receptors (A1ARs), exerts anti-adrenergic effects by inhibiting β1-adrenergic receptor (β1AR)-mediated cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) production and contractility in the heart. While the functional interaction between A1ARs and β1ARs is well established in both atrial and ventricular myocytes, the subcellular compartmentalization of this crosstalk and how it is disrupted in heart failure (HF) remains incompletely understood. This study investigates the spatial confinement of A1AR-β1AR signalling within atrial microdomains and assesses how structural remodelling in HF alters this regulatory axis.Quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) analysis revealed that A1AR is the predominant adenosine receptor subtype in both rat and human atrial tissues. In healthy rat and mouse atrial myocytes, A1AR activation reduced β1AR-induced cAMP production and sarcomere shortening, with suppression of cAMP signals at sarcolemmal microdomains enriched in protein kinase A Type II. This was further supported by scanning ion conductance microscopy-guided scanning patch-clamp, which showed that A1AR suppressed β1AR-driven L-type Ca2+ channel activity at both T-tubule and crest membrane domains. In atrial myocytes isolated from failing rat and human hearts, A1AR-mediated inhibition of β1AR-induced cAMP production and contractility was impaired. Caveolar disruption by methyl-β-cyclodextrin in rat atrial myocytes or via cardiac-specific caveolin-3 (Cav3) knockout in mice abolished this A1AR-mediated inhibition. Notably, cholesterol repletion alone did not restore membrane cAMP regulation, whereas Cav3 overexpression rescued A1AR-dependent suppression, supporting a requirement for Cav3-dependent organization. In mouse atrial preparations isolated from failing hearts, high-resolution optical mapping showed that A1AR-mediated anti-adrenergic regulation of Ca2+ cycling was selectively lost in the intercaval region, correlating with the regional absence of T-tubule and downregulation of caveolae structures.A1ARs provide anti-adrenergic restraint of β1AR signalling through Cav3-dependent membrane organization. In HF, regional caveolar disorganization uncouples this protective pathway, contributing to spatially heterogeneous Ca2+ dysregulation in the atrium.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology.
Sleep disorders, particularly insomnia, represent a major public health concern, while currently available hypnotic drugs are often limited by adverse effects and poor long-term tolerability.In this study, we investigated the sleep-promoting effects of a mixture of Hypericum perforatum L. and Melissa officinalis L. extract (HME) and its underlying mechanisms in male ICR and C57BL/6 mice. In a pentobarbital-induced sleep model in mice, sleep onset latency and total sleep time were measured. Pharmacological studies using various antagonists and agonists were conducted to elucidate receptor-mediated mechanisms. Immunohistochemical and immunofluorescence analyses were performed to assess neuronal activity, and cortical mRNA expression was evaluated by quantitative analysis. HPLC analysis was used to identify the major constituents of HME, and their pharmacological profiles were functionally evaluated.HME significantly reduced sleep onset latency and prolonged total sleep time. These hypnotic effects were shown to be mediated through adenosine and melatonin receptor signaling pathways. Immunohistochemical and immunofluorescence analyses showed that HME suppressed neuronal activity in wake-promoting cholinergic and orexinergic neurons of the basal forebrain and lateral hypothalamus, while enhancing activation of sleep-promoting GABAergic neurons in the ventrolateral preoptic nucleus. At the molecular level, HME increased cortical mRNA expression levels of adenosine A1 receptor, adenosine A2A receptor, melatonin receptor 1, and melatonin receptor 2. From the HPLC analysis, rosmarinic acid and hyperoside were identified as the major constituents of HME. Functional evaluation of these compounds revealed complementary pharmacological profiles, with hyperoside primarily acting through adenosine receptors and rosmarinic acid engaging both adenosine and melatonin receptor pathways.These findings suggest that HME enhances both sleep initiation and maintenance through adenosine and melatonin receptor signaling pathways, thereby supporting its potential as a multitarget therapeutic agent for improving sleep quality.
Neuropathic pain (NP) is tightly linked to neuroinflammation driven by aberrant activation of spinal microglia; however, the endogenous regulatory mechanisms that limit excessive microglial responses following nerve injury remain incompletely understood. Adenosine (ADO) is widely recognized as a homeostatic mediator released under conditions of tissue damage and stress, and activation of the adenosine A1 receptor (A1R) has been reported to exert antinociceptive effects at both spinal and peripheral levels. Nevertheless, the potential role of A1R as an endogenous modulator of microglial activation in NP, as well as the underlying signaling mechanisms, remains poorly defined. In this study, we found that A1R expression was markedly increased in spinal microglia after nerve injury. Notably, ATPγS-mediated damage-associated molecular pattern (DAMP) stimulation, but not lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-mediated inflammatory stimulation, increased microglial A1R expression. Pharmacological activation of A1R reversed the pro-inflammatory phenotypic shift of microglia and suppressed their excessive proliferation, resulting in significant attenuation of NP behaviors across different injury models. Mechanistically, A1R activation inhibited extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) phosphorylation in microglia, thereby preventing activation and nuclear translocation of the nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) p65 subunit, reducing the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines (PICs) and alleviating the neuroinflammatory microenvironment in the spinal dorsal horn. Taken together, our findings suggest that injury-associated upregulation of microglial A1R may act as a negative feedback mechanism that restrains microglial activation and neuroinflammation via the ERK/NF-κB signaling axis, providing mechanistic insight into endogenous neuroimmune regulation following nerve injury.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Remote ischemic preconditioning (RIPC) represents a non-invasive, clinically applicable conditioning technique that mitigates myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury (MIRI). Among various molecular mediators, the adenosine A1 receptor (AA1R) has emerged as a pivotal regulator of cardioprotective signaling. Currently, our aim is to elucidate the contribution of AA1R and AMPK-mediated autophagy in RIPC-induced cardioprotection.Prolonged ischemia of 30 min and sustained reperfusion of 120 min were given to isolated hearts of rats using the Langendorff perfusion system to induce MIRI. RIPC was elicited through four intermittent phases of 5-minute hind-limb ischemia and 5-minute reperfusion using a pressure cuff. The role of AA1R and AMPK was investigated via pharmacological inhibition using DPCPX (selective AA1R antagonist) and BML-275 (AMPK inhibitor), respectively.IRI-induced myocardial damage was manifested by a substantial rise in infarct size, elevated levels of cardiac-specific markers, i.e., LDH-1, CK-MB, C-tPn-I, altered hemodynamic parameters (decreased HR, CFR, LVDP, RPP, +dp/dtmax, and -dp/dtmin), and other biochemical markers (increased TBARS, decreased GSH and catalase, increased TNF-α, TGF-β, Bax, and caspase-3). RIPC significantly attenuated these deleterious alterations, restoring both biochemical and functional parameters. However, the administration of DPCPX and BML-275 markedly abrogated the cardioprotective benefits conferred by RIPC.These findings substantiate that RIPC exerts potent cardioprotective effects via activation of AA1R and AMPK-dependent autophagic signaling. The observed interplay between AA1R and AMPK underscores an integrated adaptive mechanism that preserves myocardial integrity during IRI. This mechanistic insight provides a rationale for exploring AA1R-AMPK axis modulation as a therapeutic avenue for clinical cardioprotection.
UVB induces an epidermal damage response, including keratinocyte hyperplasia, immune cell infiltration, and the recruitment of follicular melanocyte stem cells to the interfollicular epidermis. In this study, we establish the oncofetal chromatin remodeling factor Hmga2 (high mobility group AT-hook 2) as a regulator of these phenotypes through a cAMP-driven process. In this study, we identify somatic tissue expression of Hmga2 in the basal layer of hyperplastic UVB-exposed keratinocytes. Loss of Hmga2 results in the near absence of epidermal hyperplasia, cutaneous neutrophil infiltration, and melanocyte stem cell migration to the interfollicular epidermis. RNA sequencing of UVB-exposed keratinocytes from wild-type and Hmga2 loss-of-function models reveals increased expression of Adora1 (adenosine A1 receptor), a negative regulator of cAMP. Administration of the cAMP pathway activator forskolin to Hmga2-/- animals is sufficient to rescue melanocyte stem cell migration, thus highlighting the Hmga2-cAMP axis as a regulator in the cutaneous UVB response.Copyright © 2026 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a leading cause of cancer deaths. Advanced glycation end products (AGEs) formed in hyperglycemia, particularly Nε-(carboxymethyl)lysine (CML), promote tumor progression, although its molecular mechanisms remain unclear. Anoctamin 6 (ANO6), a transmembrane protein involved in tumor proliferation, invasion, metastasis, and cell death. It may serve as a critical link between glucose metabolism and CRC progression. This study examined the effects of high glucose and CML on ANO6 expression in T84 CRC cells, and explored the role of ANO6 in cell proliferation and migration. Our findings demonstrate that high glucose and CML upregulated ANO6 expression (p = 0.002 and p = 0.03, respectively), which in turn reduced necrotic cell death through caspase-1 activation and promoted cell migration. Spheroid assays confirmed that high ANO6 expression produced compact spheroids with increased E-cadherin (p = 0.0001). CML further enhanced spheroid integrity and motility. Low glucose increased E-cadherin expression (p = 0.01) but decreased Smad2/3 activity (p = 0.04), while CML exposure restored Smad2/3 phosphorylation and enhanced migration. Taken together, high glucose and CML promote CRC progression through ANO6 upregulation, enhancing migration while suppressing pyroptosis. These findings identify ANO6 as a mechanistic link between metabolic dysregulation and EMT-driven metastasis, highlighting it as a promising therapeutic target. Targeting ANO6 may offer a novel therapeutic strategy for CRC, particularly in patients with hyperglycemia or diabetes-associated metabolic dysregulation.
Breast cancer (BRCA) heterogeneity necessitates robust prognostic biomarkers. Programmed cell death (PCD) serves a key role in tumor progression and therapy response. However, the prognostic potential of PCD-related genes (CRGs) in BRCA remains to be fully elucidated. Therefore, the present study integrated transcriptomic data from The Cancer Genome Atlas, Molecular Taxonomy of Breast Cancer International Consortium and Gene Expression Omnibus databases. Differentially-expressed CRGs were identified in tumor tissues and subjected to univariate Cox regression analysis. A comprehensive machine learning framework, encompassing 101 algorithm combinations, was applied to construct an optimal PCD-based gene signature (CDS). The prognostic value of the CDS, and its association with the tumor immune microenvironment (TIME), predictive power for immunotherapy and drug sensitivity were systematically evaluated using the 'immunedeconv' and 'OncoPredict' R packages. A five-gene CDS (anoctamin 6, polo-like kinase 1, solute carrier family 7 member 5, tubulin α-1C chain and transcobalamin 1) was developed using the Stepwise Cox (both) + Elastic Net (α=0.9) model, demonstrating notably increased predictive performance (concordance index=0.79). High CDS scores were found to be independent prognostic factors for inferior overall survival and were associated with an immunosuppressive TIME, characterized by reduced CD8+ T-cell infiltration and impaired immune activation. By contrast, low CDS scores predicted favorable responses to immune checkpoint inhibitors in three immunotherapy cohorts and increased sensitivity to chemotherapy, endocrine and targeted agents. Human Protein Atlas and reverse transcription-quantitative PCR validation were consistent with the dysregulation of CDS genes in BRCA tissues and cell lines. In conclusion, the present study developed and validated a novel, machine learning-derived CDS that effectively stratified BRCA risk in patients. This signature provides insights into the immune landscape and serves as a valuable biomarker in predicting prognosis, immunotherapy efficacy and drug sensitivity, facilitating personalized treatment strategies in the future.Copyright: © 2026 Wu and Fan.
Endothelial dysfunction occurs early in the pathogenesis of type 2 diabetes (T2D)-associated cardiovascular disease. Previous work has revealed that endothelial glycocalyx mechanosensing structures are degraded in T2D, likely contributing to impaired shear stress mechanotransduction and consequent blunted vasodilation. Evidence from proteomic analysis suggests that glypican-1, a well-known mechanosensor, is a substrate of the proinflammatory enzyme ADAM17. A critical step in ADAM17 activation is externalization of phosphatidylserine (PS) to the outer leaflet of the plasmalemma, which can be enacted by the Ca2+-activated phospholipid scramblase anoctamin-6 (ANO6). However, whether ANO6-mediated activation of ADAM17 leads to glypican-1 shedding in endothelial cells remains unknown. Also, unknown are the mechanisms by which this pathway becomes overactive in T2D. We recently reported that the activity of neuraminidase, a soluble enzyme that cleaves sialic acid, is elevated in the plasma of individuals with T2D and that this occurs in concert with increased ADAM17 activity. Here, in an extended cohort of males and females with T2D, we report that this association is also coupled with reduced flow-mediated dilation (FMD). Furthermore, we report that subjecting endothelial cells to neuraminidase increases intracellular Ca2+, which provokes ANO6-mediated PS externalization, leading to ADAM17-dependent reductions of glypican-1. In isolated arteries, intraluminal exposure to neuraminidase impairs FMD, which can be prevented by ANO6 or ADAM17 inhibition. Lastly, isolated arteries from endothelial cell-specific ADAM17 knockout mice fed a Western diet exhibit greater FMD than genetic controls. Collectively, this work identifies the neuraminidase-ANO6-ADAM17 axis as a potential novel mechanism underlying impaired endothelial shear stress mechanotransduction in T2D.NEW & NOTEWORTHY We provide evidence that neuraminidase, which is elevated in plasma from males and females with type 2 diabetes (T2D), is involved in the activation of endothelial ADAM17 and shedding of the mechanosensor glypican-1. We also provide evidence that neuraminidase-induced ADAM17 activation and consequent glypican-1 shedding are mediated by ANO6 scramblase externalization of phosphatidylserine. Together, this work suggests the neuraminidase-ANO6-ADAM17 axis may be a mechanism underlying impaired endothelial shear stress mechanotransduction in T2D.Copyright © 2026 The Authors.
Rubicon (RUN domain Beclin-1-interacting and cysteine-rich-containing protein) is a negative regulator of autophagy in nucleated cells; however, its role in platelets is unstudied. Here, we identify an autophagy-independent role for Rubicon in arterial thrombosis. Mice with a platelet/megakaryocyte-specific deletion of Rubicon (RUBCN-/-) showed normal circulating platelet counts, with a slight increase in platelet size. The basal levels of autophagy-related, vesicle-elongation proteins (ie, ATG5, ATG7, syntaxin 17, LC3, and Rab7) were unaffected, and there was no disruption in canonical platelet signaling pathways upon activation. Platelet secretion from all 3 granule classes remained intact. Aggregation/Agglutination in response to thrombin, convulxin, or botrocetin was unaffected. There was no overt defect in activation-dependent autophagic flux (ie, loss of LC3 or p62). However, RUBCN-/- mice had a significant thrombosis defect in the FeCl3-induced, carotid artery injury model, but no defect in the tail-transection hemostasis model. An intrinsic platelet defect was confirmed using microfluidics, in which RUBCN-/- platelets had reduced collagen binding under flow at high shear flow but not low shear. RUBCN-/- platelets also showed impaired surface exposure of phosphatidylserine (PS) after thrombin and convulxin activation, though there was no effect on total anoctamin 6, which contributes to PS exposure. There was no effect on platelet endocytosis, and only modest reductions in mitochondrial membrane potential with a slight delay in clot contraction, suggesting that Rubicon contributes to late stages of platelet function. Collectively, our findings demonstrate that Rubicon contributes to thrombosis and procoagulant platelet formation in a manner that appears independent of classical autophagy.© 2026 American Society of Hematology. Published by Elsevier Inc. Licensed under Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International (CC BY-NC-ND 4.0), permitting only noncommercial, nonderivative use with attribution. All other rights reserved.
Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), a gastrointestinal motility disorder affecting millions of patients worldwide, has a substantial impact on healthcare economics and patient quality of life. However, fully satisfactory therapeutic options remain lacking. The identification of pathogenic proteins supported by causal genetic evidence enables the exploration of potential therapeutic targets for IBS.A Mendelian randomization (MR) study was performed to discover potential treatment targets linked to IBS. Summary data for IBS (outcome) were acquired from the two largest independent cohorts: sample sizes of 486,601 (53,400 cases and 433,201 controls) and 101,884 (24,735 cases and 77,149 controls), respectively. Instrumental variables were derived from cis-expression quantitative trait loci (cis-eQTL) data of druggable genes, obtained through the eQTLGen Consortium database. Colocalization analysis was employed to assess whether IBS risk and gene expression were influenced by shared SNPs. An IBS mouse model was additionally utilized to confirm the therapeutic potential of drug targets.Four drug targets (P2RY14, SLC5A6, ATRAID, and IL1RL1) displayed notable MR findings in two separate datasets. Purinergic receptor P2Y14 (P2RY14) and all-trans retinoic acid-induced differentiation factor (ATRAID) exhibited robust evidence of colocalization with IBS. We further showed an abnormal increase in expression of P2RY14 and a significant decrease in ATRAID level in the colon tissue of IBS mice.This study proposes two potential therapeutic targets for IBS: P2RY14 and ATRAID. Drugs aimed at targeting these two genes have a greater chance of success in clinical trials, potentially facilitating the prioritization of IBS drug development and lowering associated costs.Copyright © 2025 Yitong Li et al. Gastroenterology Research and Practice published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41080742 is a review article
The TMEM16 (Anoctamin) family comprises a group of transmembrane proteins involved in diverse physiological processes, including ion transport and phospholipid scrambling. TMEM16F (Anoctamin 6), a phospholipid scramblase and nonselective ion channel, plays a central role in membrane remodeling, blood coagulation, immune responses, and cell death pathways through its ability to externalize phosphatidylserine in response to elevated intracellular calcium levels. Consequently, modulating TMEM16F activity has emerged as a promising strategy for the development of new therapeutic applications. Despite the functional importance of TMEM16F, TMEM16F modulators have received little study. In a previous study, we generated TMEM16F-specific affibodies by biopanning a phage display library for affibodies that bind to brain-specific TMEM16F (hTMEM16F) variant 1. In this study, we selected six other affibodies from among the 38 previously sequenced affibody candidates and characterized them. After purification, we confirmed that two of these affibodies bound to human TMEM16F with high affinity. To provide functional insights into how these affibodies modulate TMEM16F activity, we tested whether they could exert functional effects at the cellular level. Finally, we show that TMEM16F affibody attenuated the neuronal cell death induced by glutamate and microglial phagocytosis, suggesting that these affibodies might have potential therapeutic and diagnostic applications.
Targeting the urgent need for diagnostic biomarkers in breast cancer, the most common female malignancy, this study evaluates the diagnostic and prognostic potential of disulfidptosis-related ferroptosis genes (DRFGs), leveraging the emerging roles of disulfidptosis and ferroptosis in cancer biology. Ferroptosis- and disulfidptosis-related genes of patients with breast cancer were collected from The Cancer Genome Atlas database, then 154 identified prognosis-associated DRFGs were analyzed using Pearson correlation analysis, and developed a DRFG-associated risk model containing 19 DRFGs by applying the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator Cox regression analysis. We then assessed the prognostic performance of the risk model between the high- and low-risk groups. The risk scores and clinical variables were combined to construct a nomogram. Bioinformatics analyses including functional enrichment analysis and protein-protein interaction networks were conducted. Besides, we examined the biological functions, immune checkpoints, and drug sensitivity of the model. Finally, ANO6 overexpression effects on breast cancer cell invasion and metastasis were examined via wound healing and Transwell assays. The high-risk group showed poorer overall survival (OS) rates (P <.001) and lower receiver operating characteristic curve area under receiver operating characteristic values compared to the low-risk group. The results of univariate and multivariate Cox regression analyses confirmed that the established nomogram model served as an independent prognostic indicator. Functional enrichment analysis revealed the involvement of DRFGs in biological processes and signaling pathways beyond disulfidptosis and ferroptosis. The level of expressions of immune checkpoints for TDO2 and PVR were increased in the high-risk group. Drug sensitivity analysis showed that high-risk patients benefited more from AKT.inhibitor.VIII. Moreover, anoctamin 6 overexpression inhibited breast cancer cell invasion and metastasis. This study successfully established a DRFG-related prognostic model for patients with breast cancer, and anoctamin 6 has emerged as a promising therapeutic target for breast cancer.Copyright © 2025 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.
Organisms constantly encounter unpredictable environmental perturbations, necessitating adaptation to maintain homeostasis. However, the fundamental principles by which organisms identify specific cues and transition to an adaptive state remain unclear. Here, using a mouse mechanical ventilation model and a cell stretch model, it is found that the cellular adaptation to mechanical stress can be induced by applying low amplitude stretches to cells, and demonstrate that the adaptation emerges once a defined stretch threshold is reached. This adaptive state is marked by transient cell shrinkage and reduced membrane tension. Mechanistically, guided by a mathematical model of intracellular Ca2+ dynamics, it is found that when stretch reaches a critical amplitude, it induces Ca2+-dependent positive feedback, leading to nonlinear Ca2+ elevation. This activates scramblase Anoctamin-6, promoting extracellular vesicle-mediated membrane cholesterol efflux. The reduction in membrane cholesterol subsequently activates volume-regulated anion channels, leading to cell shrinkage and the establishment of mechanical adaptation. These findings reveal a threshold-dependent mechanism for mechanical adaptation emergence, and propose a promising strategy to develop targeted interventions in mechanical stress-related disorders.© 2025 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 40360473
Metastatic progression is the leading cause of mortality in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD), yet how oncogenic signals are translated into stable metabolic and epigenetic programs that sustain tumour progression remains poorly understood. Here, through integrated single-cell, bulk, and spatial transcriptomic analyses, we identify the orphan G protein-coupled receptor GPR87 as a progression-associated regulator linked to enhanced glycolytic activity and adverse clinical outcome in LUAD. Mechanistically, GPR87 activates the cAMP/PKA/CREB pathway to induce acetyl-CoA synthetase 2 (ACSS2) transcription, thereby promoting histone H3 lysine 27 lactylation (H3K27la). H3K27la directly enhances transcription of dihydrolipoamide S-acetyltransferase (DLAT), reinforcing glycolytic flux and lactate production in a self-sustaining metabolic-epigenetic circuit. In parallel, GPR87 physically stabilizes lactate dehydrogenase A (LDHA), further amplifying lactate output. Genetic disruption of ACSS2 suppresses GPR87-driven tumour growth and metastatic colonization in vivo. Consistently, coordinated activation of this axis is enriched in advanced-stage human LUAD. Together, these findings define a GPR87-centered metabolic-epigenetic circuit that sustains glycolytic dominance and supports LUAD progression and metastasis.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The role and underlying mechanisms of G protein-coupled receptor 87 (GPR87) in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) remain unclear, despite its established oncogenic functions in other malignancies. This study examined the expression of GPR87 and its association with survival rate in ESCC using online databases. The expression of GPR87 in ESCC tissues was identified using immunohistochemistry, and a correlation analysis was carried out using ki-67 data. ESCC cells were transfected with GPR87 knockdown or overexpression plasmids, followed by functional assays such as, CCK-8 for cell viability, colony formation for proliferation, wound healing for migration, Transwell for invasion, and tube formation for angiogenesis. Western blot analysis was used to assess STAT3 phosphorylation and VEGFA expression. Additionally, a xenograft tumor model was established to investigate the effect of GPR87 on tumor growth in vivo. The findings demonstrated that GPR87 was highly expressed in ESCC tissues and its overexpression was associated with a poor patient survival. Transfection with a GPR87 overexpression plasmid increases the cell viability, invasion, proliferation, and angiogenesis of ESCC cells, while transfection with sh-GPR87 reversed these effects. Additionally, GPR87 controlled VEGFA expression levels by promoting STAT3 phosphorylation. Rescue trials further verified that GPR87 promotes the growth of ESCC by modulating STAT3. Moreover, in vivo studies validated that GPR87 knockdown suppressed tumor growth. In conclusion, the findings highlight GPR87 as a key regulator of VEGFA expression via STAT3 activation, contributing to ESCC malignancy. Targeting GPR87 may provide a potential therapeutic strategy for ESCC.© 2025 Wiley Periodicals LLC.
The adaptive immune response has a role in Parkinson's disease (PD). Patients with LRRK2 or GBA1 mutations often exhibit distinct clinical characteristics.To evaluate the involvement of adaptive immune response genes in three PD groups: GBA1-PD, LRRK2-PD, and non-carrier (NC)-PD.Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) associated with PD were identified using four datasets. Of them, adaptive immune response genes were evaluated using whole-genome-sequencing of 201 unrelated Ashkenazi-Jewish (AJ) PD patients. Potential pathogenic variants were identified, and P2RX7 variants were assessed in 1200 AJ-PD patients. Burden analysis of rare variants (allele frequencies (AF) < 0.01) on disease risk, and association analyses of common variants (AF ≥ 0.01) with disease risk and age-at-onset (AAO) were conducted. AFs were compared to AJ-non-neuro cases reported in gnomAD. Variants associated with PD were further examined in an independent AJ cohort from AMP-PD.Of the four adaptive immune DEGs identified, CD8B2, P2RX7, IL27RA, and ZC3H12A, three common variants in P2RX7 were statistically significant: Tyr155His was associated with NC-PD (allelic OR = 1.15, p = 0.015) ; Arg276His was associated with LRRK2-PD (allelic OR = 2.10, p = 0.037), while Glu496Ala was associated with earlier AAO in LRRK2-PD (p = 0.014). Burden analysis showed no significant effect on PD-risk. In the AMP-PD cohort, odds ratios of the two risk variants were similar to the primary cohort, but did not reach significance, probably due to small control sample size (n = 263).Common variants within P2RX7 are likely associated with PD-risk and earlier AAO. These findings further suggest P2RX7's involvement in PD and its potential interplay with LRRK2.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common form of primary liver cancer. HCC occurs people with chronic liver diseases. The purinergic receptor P2X 7 (P2RX7) is involved in tumor proliferation and growth. Also, P2RX7 is associated with tumor invasion and metastatic dissemination. High glucose utilization is important for the survival of various types of tumors. However, the role of P2RX7 in glucose metabolism and cellular survival of HCC remains unclear. Here, our results show that the gene and protein levels of P2RX7 were elevated in tumor cells of patients with HCC. The pharmacological inhibition of P2RX7 by A-804598, a selective P2RX7 antagonist, and genetic inhibition by P2RX7 knockdown suppressed the glycolytic activity by reduction of hexokinase 2 (HK2), a key enzyme of the glycolysis pathway, in human HCC cells. Also, both A-804598 treatment and P2RX7 knockdown induced cytotoxicity via inhibition of AKT activation which is critical for tumor cell survival in human HCC cells. Moreover, A-804598 treatment and P2RX7 knockdown increased cytotoxicity and caspase-3 activation in human HCC cells. These results suggest that inhibition of P2RX7 contributes to cytotoxicity by suppression of glycolysis and AKT activation in human HCC. [BMB Reports 2024; 57(10): 459-464].
Extracellular vesicle (EV) secretion is mediated by purinergic receptor P2X7 (P2RX7), an ATP-gated cation channel highly expressed in microglia. We have previously shown that administration of GSK1482160, a P2RX7 selective inhibitor, suppresses EV secretion from murine microglia and prevents tauopathy development, leading to the recovery of the hippocampal function in PS19 mice, expressing P301S tau mutant. It is yet unknown, however, whether the effect of GSK1482160 on EV secretion from glial cells is specifically regulated through P2RX7. Here we tested GSK1482160 on primary microglia and astrocytes isolated from C57BL/6 (WT) and P2rx7-/- mice and evaluated their EV secretion and phagocytotic activity of aggregated human tau (hTau) under ATP stimulation. GSK1482160 treatment and deletion of P2rx7 significantly reduced secretion of small and large EVs in microglia and astrocytes in both ATP stimulated or unstimulated condition as determined by nanoparticle tracking analysis, CD9 ELISA and immunoblotting of Tsg101 and Flotilin 1 using isolated EVs. GSK1482160 treatment had no effect on EV secretion from P2rx7 -/- microglia while we observed significant reduction in the secretion of small EVs from P2rx7 -/- astrocytes, suggesting its specific targeting of P2RX7 in EV secretion except small EV secretion from astrocytes. Finally, deletion of P2rx7 suppressed IL-1β secretion and phagocytosed misfolded tau from both microglia and astrocytes. Together, these findings show that GSK1482160 suppresses EV secretion from microglia and astrocytes in P2RX7-dependment manner, and P2RX7 critically regulates secretion of IL-1β and misfolded hTau, demonstrating as the viable target of suppressing EV-mediated neuroinflammation and tau propagation.© 2024 The Author(s). Journal of Extracellular Biology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Society for Extracellular Vesicles.
Purinergic receptor P2Y11, a G protein-coupled receptor that is stimulated by extracellular ATP, has been demonstrated to be related to the chemotaxis of granulocytes, apoptosis of neutrophils, and secretion of cytokines in vitro. P2Y11 mutations were associated with narcolepsy. However, little is known about the roles of P2RY11 in the occurrence of narcolepsy and inflammatory response in vivo. In this study, we generated a zebrafish P2Y11 mutant using CRISPR/Cas9 genome editing and demonstrated that the P2Y11 mutant replicated the narcolepsy-like features including reduced HCRT expression and excessive daytime sleepiness, suggesting that P2Y11 is essential for HCRT expression. Furthermore, we accessed the cytokine expression in the mutant and revealed that the P2RY11 mutation disrupted the systemic inflammatory balance by reducing il4, il10 and tgfb, and increasing il6, tnfa, and il1b. In addition, the P2RY11-deficient larvae with caudal fin injuries exhibited significantly slower migration and less recruitment of neutrophils and macrophages at damaged site, and lower expression of anti-inflammatory cytokines during tissue damage. All these findings highlight the vital roles of P2RY11 in maintaining HCRT production and secreting anti-inflammatory cytokines in the native environment, and suggested that P2RY11-deficient zebrafish can serve as a reliable and unique model to further explore narcolepsy and inflammatory-related diseases with impaired neutrophil and macrophage responses.© 2024. The Author(s).
End-stage renal disease (ESRD) and acquired cystic renal disease (ACRD) are characterized by progressive inflammation, structural remodeling and by development of unique cancer types. Eosinophilic-vacuolated and chromophobe-like renal cell carcinoma develop exclusively in ACRD kidney. The aim of the study was to investigate the molecular mechanism of ESRD/ACRD carcinogenesis.Our previous Affymetrix array analysis detected GPR87 as one of the highly and specifically expressed genes in ESRD/ACRD kidneys. In this study we analyzed normal and ESRD/ACRD kidneys and related tumors for GPR87 expression by PCR, RT-PCR, and immunohistochemistry.Immunohistochemistry revealed a strong GPR87 expression in proliferating epithelial cells in ESRD/ACRD kidneys and in cells of eosinophilic-vacuolated and chromophobe-like renal cell carcinoma.GPR87 signaling plays an important role in the structural remodeling of ESRD/ACRD kidney and development of ACRD-associated tumors with unique histology.Copyright © 2024 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. Delinasios), All rights reserved.
Ferroptosis is an iron-dependent cell death mechanism involving the accumulation of lipid peroxides. As a critical regulator, glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) has been demonstrated to be downregulated in epilepsy. However, the mechanism of ferroptosis in epilepsy remains unclear. In this study, bioinformatics analysis, analysis of epilepsy patient blood samples and cell and mouse experiments revealed strong associations among epilepsy, ferroptosis, microRNA-211-5p and purinergic receptor P2X 7 (P2RX7). P2RX7 is a nonselective ligand-gated homotrimeric cation channel, and its activation mainly increases neuronal activity during epileptic seizures. In our study, the upregulation of P2RX7 in epilepsy was attributed to the downregulation of microRNA (miR)-211-5p. Furthermore, P2RX7 has been found to regulate GPX4/HO-1 by alleviating lipid peroxidation induced by suppression of the MAPK/ERK signaling pathway in murine models. The dynamic decrease in miR-211-5p expression induces hypersynchronization and both nonconvulsive and convulsive seizures, and forebrain miR-211-5p suppression exacerbates long-lasting pentylenetetrazole-induced seizures. Additionally, in this study, induction of miR-211-5p expression or genetic-silencing of P2RX7 significantly reduced the seizure score and duration in murine models through the abovementioned pathways. These results suggest that the miR-211-5p/P2RX7 axis is a novel target for suppressing both ferroptosis and epilepsy.© 2024. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 37638395 is a review article
Few new therapeutics exist to target airway inflammation in mild-to-moderate asthma. Alveolar macrophages regulate airway inflammation by producing proresolving eicosanoids. We hypothesized that stimulation of the purinergic receptor P2X7 in macrophages from individuals with asthma produces eicosanoids associated with airway inflammation and resolution, and that these responses are predicted, in part, by P2X7 pore function. Study subjects were recruited in an Institutional Review Board (IRB)-approved study. Alveolar macrophages were recovered from bronchoalveolar lavage fluid following bronchoscopy. Purinergic receptor classification was performed using flow cytometry and fluorescent cell assay. Macrophages were stimulated in vitro and eicosanoids were measured via ELISA or enzyme immunoassay (EIA) in the presence and absence of P2X7-specific agonist [2'(3')-O-(4-Benzoylbenzoyl)adenosine-5'-triphosphate tri(triethylammonium) salt (Bz-ATP)] and antagonist (AZD9056). Functional P2X7 pore status was confirmed in a live cell assay using P2X7-specific agonists and antagonists. Alveolar macrophages produced increased quantities of the oxylipins lipoxin A4 (LXA4), resolvin D1 (RvD1), and 15(S)-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid (15(S)-HETE) following stimulation with Bz-ATP compared with vehicle controls, responses that were attenuated in the presence of the P2X7-selective antagonist, AZD9056. LXA4 and RvD1 production was greatest at 1 h, whereas 15(S)-HETE was maximally produced 24 h. Prostaglandin E-2 and resolvin E1 were minimally produced by P2X7 activation, indicating differential signaling pathways involved in eicosanoid production in alveolar macrophages derived from individuals with asthma. The early production of the proresolving eicosanoids, LXA4 and resolvin D1, is regulated by P2X7, whereas generation of the proinflammatory eicosanoid, 15(S)-HETE, is only partially regulated through P2X7 signaling and reaches maximal production after the peak in proresolving eicosanoids.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Alveolar macrophages obtained from individuals with asthma produce soluble lipid mediators in response to P2X7 purinergic receptor signaling. Proinflammatory mediators may contribute to asthma exacerbations but proresolving mediators may help with resolution of asthma loss of control. These specialized proresolving lipid mediators may serve as future potential therapeutics for asthma exacerbation resolution and recovery.
Single-cell proteomics enables direct measurement of cellular heterogeneity during dynamic biological processes, but its application to fragile and highly adherent neuronal models remains challenging. Here, we developed and applied an optimized single-cell proteomics workflow to characterize proteome remodeling during nerve growth factor (NGF)-induced differentiation of PC12 cells. To enable reliable single-cell analysis, we implemented gentle dissociation, antiaggregation strategies, and thermal inkjet-based cell dispensing, achieving high accuracy in single-cell isolation. Inclusion of n-dodecyl-β-d-maltoside (DDM) improved recovery of membrane-associated and low-solubility proteins. Coupled with LC-ion mobility-mass spectrometry, this workflow enabled quantification of 2,000-3,000 proteins per cell across the differentiation time course. Single-cell proteomic analysis revealed progressive and heterogeneous proteome remodeling during differentiation. While undifferentiated cells formed a relatively homogeneous population, later stages (Days 4-6) exhibited increased variability, including multimodal protein abundance distributions and separation into distinct subpopulations. Dimensionality reduction, clustering, and non-negative matrix factorization identified multiple coexisting proteomic states within the same time points, reflecting asynchronous differentiation trajectories. These subpopulations were characterized by coordinated differences in pathways related to intracellular trafficking, protein translation, cytoskeletal organization, and neuronal maturation. Comparison with bulk proteomics demonstrated that proteins associated with differentiated neuronal states, including those involved in neurite formation and structural remodeling, are underrepresented in population-averaged measurements but are enriched within specific single-cell subpopulations. Temporal and cluster-resolved analyses further revealed distinct protein expression trajectories, including early decreases in cell cycle and metabolic pathways and later increases in neuronal structural and regulatory proteins. Together, this study establishes an optimized workflow for single-cell proteomics of neuronal systems and demonstrates that NGF-induced PC12 differentiation proceeds through heterogeneous and divergent proteomic states that are not resolved by bulk analysis.© 2026 The Authors. Published by American Chemical Society.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42554589 is a review article
Chronic intrauterine hypoxia (IUH) is a cause not only of early postnatal mortality but also of delayed central nervous system (CNS) impairments in offspring, including increased risks of acute cerebrovascular disorders, epilepsy, and neurodegenerative diseases. The above necessitates the urgent development of targeted neuroprotective strategies for newborns following IUH. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the neuroprotective effects of the 70 kDa heat shock protein (HSP70) modulators (angiolin, thiotriazolin, cerebrocurin, tamoxifen, glutaredoxin, and heat shock factor 1 (HSF-1)), as well as reference drugs, based on their impact on molecular markers of endothelial dysfunction (vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A), endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS), inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), nitrotyrosine), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), nerve growth factor (NGF), and caspase-8 in the brains of offspring after IUH at 1 and 2 months of age.Chronic hemic IUH was modeled in pregnant rats by daily administration of sodium nitrite (50 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) on days 16-21 of pregnancy. The male offspring were treated with the study drugs for 30 days starting on P1. Brain homogenates of offspring at P30 and P60 were analyzed using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for VEGF-A, eNOS, iNOS, nitrotyrosine, BDNF, NGF, and caspase-8.IUH caused persistent endothelial dysfunction, characterized by decreased VEGF and eNOS levels, and nitrosative stress, associated with increased iNOS and nitrotyrosine levels. These changes were accompanied by decreased neurotrophin levels, including BDNF and NGF, and increased caspase-8 levels. Course administration of angiolin, cerebrocurin, HSF-1, thiotriazolin, and glutaredoxin improved the eNOS/iNOS balance, increased VEGF levels, and decreased nitrotyrosine levels, with the effect persisting until P60. Cerebrocurin and angiolin demonstrated the strongest recovery of neurotrophic factors (normalization or exceeding normal BDNF/NGF levels by P60) and effectively suppressed caspase-8 to near-normal levels. A positive correlation was established between BDNF, NGF, and HSP70 levels.Pharmacological modulators of HSP70 provide effective multimodal neuroprotection due to endothelioprotective and neurotrophic effects. Angiolin and Cerebrocurin demonstrate significant therapeutic potential, offering a promising strategy for mitigating the long-term neurological sequelae of IUH.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42530052 is a review article
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder marked by motor dysfunction. No definitive methods exist to repair damaged neurons. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and nerve growth factor (NGF) are two neuroprotective agents that work synergistically. However, these large molecular proteins have difficulty crossing the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Extracellular vesicles (EVs) offer superior targeting and low immunogenicity, making them excellent carriers. In this study we examined the protective effects of VEGF and NGF in a cell model and evaluated the therapeutic potential of VEGF-NGF contained within EVs in PD rats.EVs were isolated using sequential differential centrifugation and characterized using transmission electron microscopy, nanoparticle tracking analysis, and western blotting (WB). VEGF and NGF were loaded into the EVs using a saponin-assisted method to create VEGF@EVs, NGF@EVs, and VEGF/NGF@EVs. The viability of 6-hydroxydopamine hydrochloride (6-OHDA)-induced SH-SY5Y cells was measured using the cell counting kit-8 assay before and after treatment with VEGF and NGF. Autophagy levels were assessed using WB, and the role of autophagy was further explored using the autophagy inhibitor chloroquine. Unilateral PD rat models were established via stereotactic injection of 6-OHDA into male Sprague-Dawley rats. Behavioral changes were monitored before and after treatment. Neuronal recovery, neurotransmitter levels, and autophagy levels in the rat brains were evaluated using immunohistochemistry, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and WB.VEGF/NGF@EVs significantly enhanced the viability of 6-OHDA-induced SH-SY5Y cells. A complete autophagic process was identified as essential for this protective effect. The intranasal administration of VEGF/NGF@EVs improved motor behavior in PD rats, with performance better than that of single growth factor treatments. The number of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive neurons, TH protein expression, and dopamine content were significantly increased. In addition, the level of autophagy in the rat substantia nigra was elevated.VEGF/NGF@EVs exert protective effects in both in vitro and in vivo 6-OHDA-induced PD models by promoting autophagy, demonstrating greater efficacy than either growth factor alone. By transplanting VEGF/NGF@EVs into PD rats, we showed that these vesicles can effectively cross the BBB and deliver targeted therapy to the central nervous system. This study highlights the significant potential of EV-mediated protein transplantation strategies for treating neurological disorders.Copyright: © 2026 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.
Oral cancer is a common malignancy with an increasing incidence. Although the tumor microenvironment is essential for oral cancer development, the causal relationships between immune cell phenotypes, cytokines, and oral cancer remain unclear.To investigate the causal relationships between immune cells, cytokines, and oral cancer.Using large-scale genome-wide association study (GWAS) data, we performed bidirectional Mendelian randomization to evaluate causal relationships among 731 immune cell phenotypes, 41 cytokines, and oral cancer. Single-cell RNA sequencing data were used for validation.A causal link was identified between 29 immune cell phenotypes and oral cancer. The absolute counts of activated and secretory CD4 Tregs (OR=1.056, 95% CI: 1.005-1.109) and their ratio to total CD4 Tregs (OR=1.064, 95% CI: 1.022-1.107) were positively correlated with the risk of oral cancer. In contrast, the ratios of resting CD4 Tregs to total CD4 Tregs (OR=0.931, 95% CI: 0.891-0.972) and resting CD4 Tregs to CD4+ T cells (OR=0.925, 95% CI: 0.885-0.967) were negatively correlated with the risk of oral cancer. Reverse analysis indicated that oral cancer could influence 41 immune cell phenotypes. Elevated levels of RANTES (CCL5) were found to increase the risk of oral cancer, while oral cancer significantly raised β-nerve growth factor (NGF) levels. These findings were corroborated by single-cell sequencing analyses.This study reveals multiple causal relationships between various immune cell phenotypes and oral cancer, highlighting that activated and secretory CD4 Tregs may increase the risk of oral cancer. It also identifies CCL5 and NGF as potentially important cytokines in oral tumorigenesis, providing possible therapeutic targets for oral cancer treatment.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.
Peripheral nerve injury is a common complication in patients with trauma, and severe cases can result in sensory and motor function loss, affecting the quality of life. Although the peripheral nervous system has spontaneous regenerative ability, bridging long-distance nerve gaps remains a clinical challenge. Therefore, we innovatively constructed a multi-guided nerve conduit to address this issue. Using gelatin methacryloyl as the raw material, directional micropores were created through casting, demolding, and directional freezing to achieve topographical guidance. A concentration gradient of the nerve growth factor was loaded to provide biochemical guidance. Simultaneously, aligned silk fibroin fiber membranes were prepared by electrospinning to wrap the scaffold, ensuring implantation and structural integrity. Our findings confirmed that the repair effect of the multi-guided nerve conduit on rat sciatic nerve defects was comparable to that of autologous nerve grafts, providing a promising innovative solution for the clinical repair of peripheral nerve injuries.
Osteoarthritis (OA) affects 600 million individuals globally, pain being a hallmark symptom. Emerging clinical evidence supports the use of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) and their extracellular vesicles (MSC-EVs) for pain relief in knee OA. In mice, MSC-EVs ameliorate OA-induced pain and normalize knee-innervating neuron excitability. Moreover, it has been shown that overnight incubation of sensory neurons with MSC-EVs prevents the OA-associated mediator nerve growth factor (NGF) sensitizing sensory neurons. Here, conducting experiments with male and female C57BL/6J mice, we found that protease-mediated MSC-EV 'shaving' inhibited MSC-EV internalization into sensory neurons and the ability of MSC-EVs to prevent NGF-induced sensitization. In addition, acute, 10-minute, exposure of sensory neurons to MSC-EVs was also insufficient to counteract NGF. We hypothesized that MSC-EVs trigger transcriptional changes and found that inhibiting transcription prevented NGF-induced sensitization. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) can be delivered to cells by MSC-EVs, and certain miRNAs regulate transcription and pain; small RNA-sequencing of our MSC-EVs identified three candidate miRNAs, miR-21-5p, miR-148a-3p and miR-451a. Using gold nanoparticle delivery, each miRNA was able to prevent NGF sensitization of sensory neurons, a combination of all three showing the most pronounced effect. These findings demonstrate that MSC-EVs prevent NGF-induced sensory neuron sensitization via cellular uptake and transcriptional regulation that is mediated by miRNAs.Significance statement Mesenchymal stem cell extracellular vesicles (MSC-EVs) contain a complex biomolecular cargo and modulate cellular activity through diverse signaling mechanisms. MSC-EVs alleviate pain in osteoarthritis (OA) through direct activity of sensory neurons whereby they prevent OA-induced hyperexcitability, as well as sensitization induced by nerve growth factor (NGF). Here, we show that MSC-EV internalization and induction of transcription is required to prevent NGF-induced sensitization. Using gold nanoparticle delivery, we further demonstrate that a cocktail of microRNAs (miRNA) enriched in MSC-EVs can recapitulate the ability of MSC-EVs to counteract NGF, miR-21-5p being most potent when administered alone.Copyright © 2026 the authors.
Ischemic stroke (IS) reperfusion induces neuronal damage through excessive reactive oxygen species (ROS) and neuroinflammation. Baicalin (Bai) shows antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effects but suffers from poor solubility and bioavailability. MOF-818, a zirconium-based framework with superoxide dismutase-and catalase-mimicking activity, efficiently scavenges ROS but lacks pharmacological versatility. Combining Bai with MOF-818 may offer multitarget neuroprotection in IS. To investigate the therapeutic efficacy and mechanisms of Bai-loaded MOF-818 (Bai@MOF-818) in IS. In vitro oxygen-glucose deprivation/reperfusion (OGD/R) models using PC-12 cells and BV-2 microglia were employed to assess ROS scavenging, mitochondrial protection, apoptosis, and microglial polarization.In vivo, Bai@MOF-818 was stereotactically delivered into the ischemic core of rats subjected to transient middle cerebral artery occlusion. Neurological function, infarct volume, oxidative stress, apoptosis, and microglial polarization were evaluated. Bai@MOF-818 markedly scavenged ROS, restored mitochondrial membrane potential, and promoted M1-to-M2 microglial polarization via NF-κB inhibition and PPARγ activation. This led to reduced TNF-α/IL-6 and increased IL-10/Arg-1, alleviating neuroinflammation. Furthermore, Bai@MOF-818 inhibited neuronal apoptosis by suppressing Bax and cleaved caspase-3 while elevating the Bcl-2/Bax ratio. Histological analyses revealed preserved tissue integrity, 5 enhanced neuronal survival, reduced infarct size and edema, and improved motor and sensory recovery. Bai@MOF-818 exerts synergistic antioxidant and anti-inflammatory actions, attenuates neuronal apoptosis, and enhances neurological recovery, representing a promising multitarget therapeutic for cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury.NA.
This study investigates the potential mechanisms through which the Rhubarb-Peach Kernel herb pair may exert effects in gastric cancer (GC) using network pharmacology and molecular docking approaches. Active compounds and their corresponding targets were retrieved from the Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology Database and Analysis Platform (TCMSP), with additional compound-target information obtained from DrugBank. Gastric cancer-related targets were collected from GeneCards, Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man (OMIM), the Therapeutic Target Database, and DrugBank. The overlapping targets were used to construct a compound-target-disease network and a protein-protein interaction network. Gene ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway enrichment analyses were subsequently performed. Nine candidate compounds were docked against 8 core targets to assess their predicted structural interactions. A total of 27 active compounds were identified, among which β-sitosterol, aloe-emodin, and hederagenin were identified as major candidate compounds. Tumor protein p53, caspase 3, and JUN were among the principal network targets. Enrichment analysis indicated that the overlapping targets were mainly associated with the p53 signaling pathway and other pathways involved in cancer-related processes, including apoptosis, cell survival, and inflammatory regulation. Molecular docking revealed differences in predicted binding scores among the 9 candidate compounds and 8 core targets, with several compound-target pairs showing comparatively lower docking energies. This in silico study suggests that the Rhubarb-Peach Kernel herb pair may act through multiple compounds, targets, and biological pathways relevant to GC. However, the identified targets are not necessarily specific to GC, and the molecular docking findings represent computational predictions rather than evidence of actual biological binding. These results should therefore be considered preliminary and hypothesis-generating, and further in vitro and in vivo studies are required to evaluate their biological and therapeutic relevance.Copyright © 2026 the Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, LLC.
The gut-brain axis (GBA) plays a critical role in regulating neurocognitive and gastrointestinal functions through integrated neuronal, immune, endocrine, and microbial pathways. Estrogen deficiency causes gut dysbiosis and associated GBA dysfunction. Strategies that may modulate GBA dysfunction in the postmenopausal phase need to be explored. Our present research aimed to examine the synergistic effect of soy isoflavone (SIF) and fructooligosaccharide (FOS) in combination on GBA dysfunction in an estrogen-deprived rat model.To induce similar postmenopausal complications, female SD rats were bilaterally ovariectomized (OVX) and were orally administered a combination of FOS (50 mg/kg) & SIF (40 mg/kg) and 17β-estradiol (10 μg/kg) for 28 days. At the end, the uterus, hippocampus, & proximal colon health was measured.Co-supplementation of FOS with SIF in estrogen-deprived rats synergistically improves body weight, neurobehavior, brain-derived neurotrophic factor levels, and monoamine neurotransmission. We also observed marked restoration of oxidative stress, inflammation, and apoptosis in the hippocampus and colon. With this, we also observed restoration of gut health as indicated by increased mucosal layer integrity, promoting tight junction (TJ) genes, and rebalancing the gut microbiome (GM). The combination approach also selectively activates ER-β expression in the hippocampus without affecting serum estradiol levels & uterine weight. Collectively, the combination approach acts as a selective estrogen receptor modulator and improves GBA functioning.Thus, the combination approach may attenuate GBA dysfunction in estrogen-deprived rats by selectively activating the ER-β receptor and modulating oxidative stress, inflammation, and apoptosis while preserving the mucosal layer, TJ genes, and GM.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.
Osteosarcoma (OS) is a malignant bone tumor that predominantly affects adolescents. Due to its early metastatic tendency and chemoresistance, long-term survival rates in patients have not shown significant improvement over time, highlighting the urgent need for novel molecular targets and therapeutic strategies. Ferroptosis, a form of programmed cell death driven by iron-dependent lipid peroxidation, offers a promising avenue for overcoming drug-resistant tumors. ATP-binding cassette subfamily B member 6 (ABCB6) belongs to the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter superfamily and is mainly localised to the outer mitochondrial membrane, where it participates in haem synthesis and intracellular iron transport. Recent studies have indicated that ABCB6 is aberrantly expressed in various malignancies and regulates tumor progression, yet its role and mechanism in OS remain unexplored. The present study aims to systematically characterise the expression pattern, clinical prognostic significance, and biological functions of ABCB6 in OS, and to dissect the molecular mechanism by which ABCB6 governs ferroptosis in OS cells, thereby providing a theoretical foundation for ABCB6-targeted therapy.Human OS cell lines (HOS and 143B) and human bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) were used as research subjects. Stable ABCB6-knockdown OS cell lines were established via lentivirus-mediated RNA interference, and rescue experiments were performed using lentiviral overexpression of hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha (HIF1A). Cell proliferation was assessed by cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) and colony formation assays; migration was evaluated by Transwell and scratch wound-healing assays; apoptosis was detected by flow cytometry. Ferroptosis-related phenotypic assays were employed to determine the impact of ABCB6 expression on ferroptosis. Transcriptome sequencing was conducted to analyse differentially expressed genes and enriched pathways; chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and dual-luciferase reporter assays were applied to verify the direct binding of HIF1A to the promoter of glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) and its transcriptional regulation. Iron chelator and proteasome inhibitor interventions were used to validate the regulation of HIF1A protein stability by Fe2+. In vivo, ABCB6-knockdown and control 143B cells were injected subcutaneously into nude mice to establish a xenograft tumor model, and tumor growth was monitored.Both messenger RNA (mRNA) and protein levels of ABCB6 were significantly higher in OS cell lines than in BMSCs (both P<0.05), and analysis of the Therapeutically Applicable Research to Generate Effective Treatments (TARGET)-OS cohort revealed that patients with high ABCB6 expression had markedly worse overall survival than those with low expression [hazard ratio (HR)=2.94, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.36 to 6.36, P<0.05]. ABCB6 knockdown significantly suppressed OS cell proliferation and colony formation, reduced migratory capacity, and increased the apoptosis rate, accompanied by downregulation of N-cadherin and upregulation of E-cadherin and cleaved caspase-3 (all P<0.05). ABCB6 silencing markedly elevated the proportion of Liperfluo-positive cells and dihydroethidium (DHE) oxidation levels, increased intracellular Fe2+ concentration, decreased the glutathione (GSH)/oxidized glutathione (GSSG) ratio, reduced mitochondrial membrane potential, and induced typical ferroptotic mitochondrial morphological changes (shrinkage and cristae reduction) as observed by transmission electron microscope (all P<0.05); these oxidative alterations were reversed by the ferroptosis inhibitors. ABCB6 knockdown downregulated GPX4 at both protein and mRNA levels, whereas solute carrier family 7 member 11 (SLC7A11) expression remained unchanged (P>0.05). Transcriptome sequencing and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analysis showed significant enrichment of the HIF-1 signalling pathway in the control group (P<0.001); ABCB6 knockdown decreased HIF1A protein expression, and treatment with an iron chelator or a proteasome inhibitor reversed this degradation through Fe2+ chelation or inhibition of the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway, respectively (all P<0.05). Chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (ChIP-qPCR) and dual-luciferase reporter assays confirmed that HIF1A directly binds to the GPX4 promoter and activates its transcription. Overexpression of HIF1A in ABCB6-knockdown cells restored GPX4 expression and significantly rescued the proliferation inhibition, migration impairment, and apoptosis increase caused by ABCB6 silencing, while also restoring mitochondrial membrane potential (all P<0.05). In the xenograft model, tumors from the ABCB6-knockdown group exhibited significantly reduced volume and weight compared with the control group (all P<0.05); immunohistochemistry confirmed downregulation of HIF1A and GPX4, reduced Ki-67 and N-cadherin positivity, and increased cleaved caspase-3 and E-cadherin positivity in the knockdown group (all P<0.05).This study systematically uncovers, for the first time, the oncogenic role and prognostic value of ABCB6 in OS, and delineates the complete "ABCB6/Fe2+/HIF1A/GPX4" axis that governs ferroptosis in OS cells. These findings not only provide a novel biomarker for molecular subtyping and prognostic evaluation of OS, but also establish a theoretical basis for therapeutic strategies that target the ABCB6/HIF1A/GPX4 axis to induce ferroptosis. Future investigations may explore the upstream regulators of ABCB6 and its potential utility in reversing chemoresistance in OS.
Black goji berry (Lycium ruthenicum Murr.) has been recognized for its immune-regulating and anti-cancer potentials, but its key active components and underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we applied LC-MS/MS to characterize the metabolite profile of L. ruthenicum and performed in vitro assays to evaluate its anti-inflammatory and anti-cancer activities. A total of 149 metabolites were identified, with organic acids, carbohydrates, and amino acid derivatives as the dominant components. Isorhamnetin was identified as a representative flavonoid. In LPS-stimulated Calu3 cells, isorhamnetin reduced the secretion and mRNA expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-6, TNF-alpha, IL-1beta). In cancer cells, isorhamnetin induces ROS accumulation, DNA damage, mitochondrial dysfunction, and caspase-3-dependent apoptosis, with modulation of the AKT signaling pathway. These findings suggest that isorhamnetin may contribute to the anti-inflammatory and anti-cancer effects of L. ruthenicum observed in vitro, providing preliminary experimental evidence for its potential as a functional food ingredient. However, this study is limited by the use of a single cell line (Calu3) and the absence of in vivo validation and pharmacokinetic evaluation; further studies are needed to confirm these observations.Copyright © 2026 Jiang, Ma, Li, Li, Zhang and Li.
HSCR is caused by disruption of complex signaling pathways within the gene regulatory network (GRN) during enteric nervous system (ENS) development, including glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and GDNF family receptor alpha-1 (GFRα1). However, pathogenic variants in all GRN genes account for only ~ 80% cases; therefore, the epigenetic role remains to be elucidated. We compared GDNF and GFRα1 expression between HSCR patients and controls.qPCR revealed an upregulated GDNF expression in both ganglionic (206.37-fold) and aganglionic (126.35-fold) HSCR compared to control colons (ΔCT 7.65 ± 2.19 vs. 15.34 ± 1.34; p = 0.0001; and ΔCT 8.35 ± 2.57 vs. 15.34 ± 1.34; p = 0.0001). qPCR also showed an upregulated GFRα1 expression in both ganglionic (29.66-fold) and aganglionic (18.44-fold) HSCR compared to control colons (ΔCT 8.44 ± 1.98 vs. 13.33 ± 1.36; p = 0.0001; and ΔCT 9.13 ± 1.46 vs. 13.33 ± 1.36; p = 0.0001). In addition, no significant differences were observed between ganglionic and aganglionic segments for either GDNF or GFRα1 (ΔCT 7.65 ± 2.19 vs. 8.35 ± 2.57; p = 0.43; and ΔCT 8.44 ± 1.98 vs. 9.13 ± 1.46; p = 0.29). Our study demonstrates global aberrant expression of GDNF and GFRα1 in HSCR patients. These findings underscore the complexity of HSCR as a multifactorial disorder and highlight the importance of integrated signaling networks in ENS development, providing a rationale for further mechanistic and translational studies.© 2026. The Author(s).
Genome-wide association studies identified a melanoma- and nevus count-associated locus on chromosome band 9q34.13. Fine-mapping and melanocyte expression data collectively suggest two potential causal genes with opposite association with risk: higher levels of Rap guanine nucleotide exchange factor 1 (RAPGEF1) and lower levels of uridine-cytidine kinase 1 (UCK1). Colocalization analyses and conditional TWAS suggest multiple causal cis-regulatory sequence variants in partial linkage disequilibrium (LD) to each other. Melanocyte capture-HiC and CRISPR-inhibition demonstrated regulatory interactions between fine-mapped variants and the RAPGEF1 and UCK1 promoters. Focusing on RAPGEF1, we demonstrate RAPGEF1 expression promotes melanocyte growth and drives malignant transformation of human immortalized melanocytes. Following treatment with human EGF, RAPGEF1 overexpression activated both RAP1 and RAS. Further, we show RAPGEF1 expression is significantly enriched in melanomas lacking strongly activating RAS-MAPK mutations, suggesting that RAPGEF1 may promote oncogenic RAS-MAPK signaling in melanomas. Furthermore, in these tumors, we provide preliminary evidence to support the prognostic relevance of RAPGEF1 expression in patients lacking RAS or BRAF mutations. Together with other recent studies, these data suggest that germline variation influencing RAS activation may play a key role in nevus development and melanoma risk.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) is a neuroprotective protein with widespread applications in regenerative medicine, though its clinical translation has been limited. Peptide mimetics have the potential to overcome the limitations associated with the translation of GDNF. Herein, peptides targeting the GDNF receptor GFRα1 were identified by screening a 12-mer linear peptide phage display library against GFRα1. Peptide hits were rationalized by computational alanine scanning mutagenesis studies to identify residues contributing to GDNF and GFRα1 binding. Four hit peptides were synthesized and tested for GFRα1 binding affinity. All peptides activated the downstream phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase signaling pathway in SH-SY5Y cells and increased cellular proliferation. The biological activity of two peptides matched that of recombinant GDNF, as measured by neurite outgrowth of primary dorsal root ganglion neurons. For the first time, we report monomeric GFRα1-targeting peptides that mimic the biological effects of GDNF, with potential applications in regenerative medicine.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42097811 is a review article
Hypertension is a major modifiable risk factor for chronic kidney disease (CKD), yet predicting which hypertensive individuals will progress to CKD remains challenging. We aimed to develop and validate a plasma protein-based risk score for incident CKD in hypertension and to identify causal proteins and potential therapeutic targets.Using data from the UK Biobank Pharma Proteomics Project, we included 22 258 hypertensive participants without baseline CKD. A protein risk score was developed in a training set (n=11 671) and validated in internal testing (n=7778) and external validation (Scotland/Wales, n=2809) cohorts. Hypothesis-generating Mendelian randomization using cis- protein quantitative trait loci was performed to prioritize proteins for functional follow-up.A 13-protein risk score (C-index ≈0.78) was developed, with a simplified 3-protein panel (RNASE1 [pancreatic ribonuclease], IGFBP4 [insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 4], GDF15 [growth differentiation factor 15]) capturing most of its predictive power. Adding the 13-protein score to the clinical model significantly improved the C-index by 0.019 (95% CI, 0.011-0.026) in internal testing and 0.047 (95% CI, 0.013-0.090) in external validation cohorts, with significant net reclassification improvement and integrated discrimination improvement, while an estimated glomerular filtration rate-based polygenic risk score provided no meaningful improvement. Mendelian randomization analysis identified 7 proteins (BMPER [BMP-binding endothelial regulator protein], GFRA1 [GDNF family receptor alpha-1], CST3 [cystatin-C], CXCL16 [C-X-C motif chemokine 16], FOLR1 [folate receptor alpha], AMBP [protein AMBP], and STC1 [stanniocalcin-1]) with nominally significant associations with hypertensive CKD, all with higher levels increasing risk. Enrichment analyses highlighted protease inhibition and folate metabolism pathways. FOLR1 and STC1 emerged as druggable targets.This study establishes a robust plasma protein signature for predicting hypertensive CKD and provides genetic evidence supporting several proteins as prioritized candidates, revealing novel pathways and nominating FOLR1 and STC1 as potential therapeutic targets for further investigation.
Skipped: PubMed ID 41418124 is a review article
Papillary thyroid cancer (PTC), the most prevalent thyroid malignancy, is witnessing a global surge in incidence. The potassium voltage-gated channel subfamily Q member 3 (KCNQ3) is aberrantly overexpressed in PTC, yet its mechanistic contribution to oncogenesis remains unclear. Thus, we aimed to elucidate the oncogenic mechanism of KCNQ3 in PTC.We integrated gene expression profiling interactive analysis (GEPIA), immunohistochemistry, and western blotting to assess KCNQ3 expression during PTC tumorigenesis and progression, and validated in vitro and in vivo using BALB/c nude mice. The functional roles of KCNQ3 were evaluated using wound-healing, transwell, and colony formation assays. Protein interactions were elucidated through co-immunoprecipitation, mass spectrometry (MS), and immunofluorescence, while estradiol (E2)-mediated KCNQ3 regulation was examined using chromatin immunoprecipitation-qPCR (ChIP-qPCR). The therapeutic potential of the KCNQ channel inhibitor, XE991, was also investigated.KCNQ3 was upregulated in PTC and drove tumor cell proliferation and migration. Mechanistically, KCNQ3 interacted with GRB2-associated regulator of MAPK1 subtype 1(GAREM1), growth factor receptor-bound protein 2(GRB2), and SOS Ras/Rac guanine nucleotide exchange factor 1 (SOS1), activating the RAS/RAF/MAPK signaling cascade to promote oncogenesis. ChIP-qPCR revealed that E2 enhanced KCNQ3 transcription by binding estrogen receptor alpha (ESR1) to the KCNQ3 promoter. Notably, XE991 inhibited PTC cell proliferation and migration.Our research uncovers a novel KCNQ3-driven oncogenic axis in PTC, establishing KCNQ3 as a promising therapeutic target. Our findings also establish E2 as a KCNQ3 regulator in PTC, elucidating a mechanism underlying the female gender bias of the disease. Additionally, XE991 shows potential in PTC treatment.© 2025. The Author(s).
Abnormal gastrointestinal motility plays a crucial role in the pathogenesis of functional dyspepsia (FD). Although electroacupuncture (EA) has demonstrated efficacy in FD treatment, its precise mechanism remains unclear. This study aimed to elucidate the specific mechanism through which EA improves gastrointestinal motility in FD.Physiological indices, including body weight, food intake, gastrointestinal motility, and gastrointestinal morphology, were utilized to assess the FD model in rats. EA interventions were applied at meridian points, as well as non-meridian points and non-acupoints, in FD model rats. The effects of EA at zusanli (ST36) and taichong (LR3) on gastrointestinal motility in FD model rats were elucidated using gastrointestinal motility test indices. Techniques such as Western blotting, quantitative real-time PCR, and immunofluorescence were employed to determine the specific mechanisms by which EA improved gastrointestinal motility in FD model rats.Multifactorial stress intervention could be used to effectively establish an FD rat model. EA at ST36 and LR3 significantly improved gastrointestinal motility. Furthermore, EA at ST36 and LR3 upregulated the protein expression of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), GDNF family receptor alpha 1 (GFRα1), phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K), and protein kinase B (Akt), along with their mRNA expression levels and the number of enteric glial cells (EGCs).EA was capable of increasing the number of EGCs by activating the GDNF/GFRα1/PI3K/Akt signaling pathway, thereby improving gastrointestinal motility in FD.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Huazhong University of Science and Technology.
The biological underpinnings of post-stroke cognitive function are largely unknown, and protein investigations can point towards important pathways for further study. We profiled plasma levels of 91 neurology-related proteins (Olink Neurology panel) and serum Neurofilament light chain (NfL) levels in 205 cases in the Sahlgrenska Academy Study on Ischemic Stroke. Blood was sampled in the acute and convalescent (3 months post-stroke) phase. Cognitive outcome was evaluated by the Barrow Neurological Institute Screen for Higher Cerebral Functions 7 years post-stroke. In linear regression models, 6 and 5 proteins in the acute and convalescent phase, respectively, were univariably associated with cognitive outcome at False Discovery Rate (FDR) < 0.05, and 9 and 8 at p < 0.05 after adjustment for age, sex, education and sampling day (model 1) and/or additional adjustment for stroke severity (model 2). Of these, 15 proteins contributed with information in multi-protein models on at least one time-point. These included brain-expressed proteoglycans (NCAN, BCAN, GPC5, SPOCK1); contactin-5 (CNTN5); metabolic enzymes (HAGH, NMNAT1); cluster of differentiation (CD)-proteins (SIGLEC1, CLEC10A, CD200R1); GDNF family receptor alpha-1 (GFR-alpha-1); brorin (VWC2); beta-nerve growth factor (beta-NGF); myostatin (GDF-8); and NfL. We identified novel candidate protein biomarkers of post-stroke cognitive outcome that likely reflect different biological processes, warranting further exploration.© 2025. The Author(s).
Background and Objectives: Neurotrophic receptor tyrosine kinase 3 (NTRK3) is a member of the tropomyosin receptor kinase family of receptor tyrosine kinases, which play a crucial role in neural development. However, owing to the limited number of studies about NTRK3 and cancer, we aimed to investigate NTRK3 as a potential prognostic marker for breast cancer (BC). Materials and Methods: We conducted a comprehensive analysis of NTRK3 expression in BC using the Tumor Immune Estimation Resource, Gene Expression Profiling Interactive Analysis 2, and Kaplan-Meier Plotter databases. We also explored the association between NTRK3 expression and tumor-infiltrating immune cells. Results: Low NTRK3 expression showed poorer prognosis in BC, as well as with T stage, pathology, and the Luminal subtype. In BC (BRCA), NTRK3 was positively correlated with CD4+ T cell, CD8+ T cell, macrophage, and neutrophil infiltration. Conclusions: These results suggest that NTRK3 may serve as a prognostic biomarker and provide novel insights into tumor immunology in BC. Therefore, NTRK3 represents a potential diagnostic and therapeutic target for BC treatment.
Serine/threonine-proline (S/T-P) phosphorylation is a fundamental mechanism maintaining cellular homeostasis. Although glycogen synthase kinase 3β (GSK3β) is a key regulator in ischemic stroke, the contribution of its proline-directed kinase activity to cellular dysfunction and disease progression remains unclear. Here, we developed Nb.29E9, a nanobody that selectively targets the proline-directed kinase domain of GSK3β. Under ischemic conditions, Nb.29E9 inhibited S/T-P phosphorylation of key substrates, including RNA-binding motif protein 38 (RBM38), HIF1α, and p53, thereby enhancing neuronal and microglial viability while reducing oxidative stress and neuroinflammation. Phosphoproteomic analysis revealed broad reprogramming of S/T-P phosphorylation networks. In mice after ischemic injury, Nb.29E9 delivered via a brain-penetrant, MMP-9-responsive nanoparticle reduced infarct volume, restored neurovascular integrity, and improved motor function. Mechanistically, Nb.29E9 corrected pathological hyperphosphorylation of SMAD2/3-Thr8 (TGFβ signaling), calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase kinase 2 (CAMKK2)-Ser495 (AMPK pathway), and AKT1 substrate 1 (AKT1S1)-Ser183 (mTORC1 regulation). These findings demonstrate that GSK3β's intrinsic proline-directed kinase activity drives ischemic neurodegeneration, establishing its pathogenic role in vivo.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is the most prevalent histological subtype of lung cancer, and the development of chemoresistance often leads to tumor recurrence and metastasis. Neurotrophic receptor tyrosine kinase 2 (NTRK2) has been implicated in tumorigenesis and chemotherapy resistance, but its precise role in LUAD and contribution to paclitaxel resistance remain unclear. In this study, we found that NTRK2 expression was significantly upregulated in LUADs compared with paired noncancerous tissues and was further elevated in samples from patients who experienced recurrence following paclitaxel-based chemotherapy. Functional assays demonstrated that NTRK2 knockdown markedly inhibited the malignant phenotypes of LUAD cells in vitro and significantly restored the sensitivity of LUAD cells to paclitaxel. Conversely, NTRK2 overexpression promoted cell proliferation, colony formation, and reduced responsiveness to paclitaxel. Consistently, in vivo xenograft experiments revealed that NTRK2 knockdown suppressed tumor growth and enhanced the antitumor efficacy of paclitaxel. Mechanistically, NTRK2 activated the MAPK/ERK and PI3K/AKT signaling pathways, leading to the upregulation of MYC, which in turn directly activated the transcription of ATP-binding cassette subfamily F member 1 (ABCF1), thereby promoting LUAD progression and paclitaxel resistance. Collectively, our findings identify NTRK2 as a critical oncogenic driver that confers chemoresistance by activating the NTRK2/MYC/ABCF1 signaling axis. This study provides new mechanistic insights into the regulation of paclitaxel resistance in LUAD and highlights NTRK2 and its downstream effectors as promising therapeutic targets for overcoming chemoresistance.Copyright © 2025. Published by Elsevier Inc.
Bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) is a chronic lung disease of prematurity with no curative therapy, characterized by impaired alveologenesis and capillary formation. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying endothelial dysfunction, a key driver of BPD pathogenesis, remain poorly understood. Through multiomic profiling of endothelial cells isolated from human BPD lungs, we identified an expansion of general capillary endothelial cells (gCaps) marked by neurotrophic receptor tyrosine kinase 2 (NTRK2). Notably, we uncovered a critical isoform switch that governs gCap regeneration. Full-length NTRK2 (NTRK2-FL) promoted gCap repair after hyperoxic injury, whereas RBFOX2-mediated splicing of NTRK2-FL into a truncated isoform (NTRK2-T1) contributed to maladaptive responses and persistent alveolar simplification. Restoring NTRK2-FL using lipid nanoparticle-delivered mRNA promoted angiogenesis in vessel organoids and reversed alveolar simplification in hyperoxic mice. These findings identified NTRK2 isoform imbalance as a key driver of endothelial dysfunction and support isoform-specific RNA therapy as a promising strategy for vascular regeneration and repair.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Sympathetic-sensory coupling is increasingly implicated in joint homeostasis and disease. Towards the long-term goal of deciphering its role in temporomandibular disorders (TMDs), we characterised the spatial relationships of sympathetic and sensory nerves and their receptors in the mouse temporomandibular joint (TMJ) and trigeminal ganglion (TG), using the knee joint for comparison.RNAscope was used for localisation of sympathetic nerve markers tyrosine hydroxylase (Th) and adrenergic receptor alpha 2a (Adrα2a); and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (Bdnf) and its receptor neurotrophic receptor tyrosine kinase 2 (Ntrk2) that stimulate sympathetic nerve growth. Sensory marker calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) was detected through immunofluorescence.Th, Adrα2a, Bdnf and Ntrk2 were expressed in the TMJ and knee joint tissues, including condylar and disc cartilages, muscles and bone marrow. CGRP+ sensory neurons were abundant in the TG and, to a lesser extent, in TMJ and knee tissues, where they were often located near Th- or Adrα2a-expressing sympathetic cells. Some CGRP+ neurons in the TG also co-expressed Adrα2a.Our findings reveal the presence of sympathetic and sensory nerves within the TMJ, knee joint and TG, with these nerves often located near each other. Along with the presence of Adrα2a on CGRP+ sensory fibres, this suggests sympathetic-sensory coupling and potential crosstalk in physiologic and pathologic responses. Expression of Bdnf and Ntrk2 in the TMJ and knee implicates this neurotrophin signalling in modulating sympathetic activity via neural sprouting. Further studies will clarify the functional contributions of this neurological architecture to tissue homeostasis, disease and pain.© 2025 The Author(s). Orthodontics & Craniofacial Research published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The molecular mechanisms involved in reconstructing the eye-to-brain connection and functional recovery following optic nerve damage remain unclear. This study revealed that HAUS augmin-like complex subunit 7 (HAUS7) is a molecule that binds to dedicator of cytokinesis 3 (DOCK3), a regulator of neurotrophic factor signaling and axon regeneration. We observed a distribution pattern of HAUS7 expression, suggesting that neuronal HAUS7 is transported from the cell body to the growth cone under the control of DOCK3. In addition, phosphorylation of DOCK3 at Y562 by tropomyosin receptor kinase B signaling leads to the dissociation of HAUS7, which is considered an important step for microtubule assembly. Deletion of Haus7 in mice significantly reduced microtubule formation and axon regeneration following optic nerve crush (ONC). Transcriptome analysis suggested that HAUS7 levels decrease in glaucoma and after the ONC, while retinal ganglion cells actively regenerating their axons express high levels of HAUS7. In summary, HAUS7 is a binding partner of DOCK3 necessary for axon elongation.
Bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) is a chronic lung disease in premature infants with no curative therapy, characterized by impaired alveologenesis and capillary formation. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying endothelial dysfunction, a key driver of BPD pathogenesis in human, remain poorly understood. Here, through multiomic profiling of vascular endothelial cells isolated from control and BPD patient lungs, we uncovered an expansion of general capillary endothelial cells (gCap) with aberrant expression of the neurotrophic receptor tyrosine kinase 2 (NTRK2) in BPD. Importantly, we identified a pathological NTRK2 isoform switch that dictates the regenerative capacity of gCap cells. Full-length NTRK2 (NTRK2-FL) promoted gCap regeneration in response to hyperoxic injury, whereas RBFOX2-mediated splicing of NTRK2-FL into a truncated isoform (NTRK2-T1) contributed to maladaptive responses and irreversible alveolar simplification in severe BPD cases. Restoring NTRK2-FL using lipid nanoparticle-delivered mRNA promoted angiogenesis and reversed alveolar simplification in vessel organoids and BPD-like mice. These findings identified NTRK2 isoform imbalance as a key driver of endothelial dysfunction and support isoform-specific RNA therapy as a promising strategy for vascular regeneration and repair.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 40358555
The DOCK3 gene (NM_004947.5) is located on chromosome 3p21.2 spanning 53 exons and encodes the dedicator of cytokinesis 3 protein. DOCK3 belongs to the family of guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) that activate GTPases. DOCK3 is expressed almost exclusively in the central nervous system and has been shown to promote axonal outgrowth. Biallelic disruptions of DOCK3 are implicated in a neurodevelopmental disorder presenting with intellectual disability, hypotonia and ataxia (OMIM: 618292). We report a 9-year-old female with global developmental delay, moderate intellectual disability, wide-based and ataxic gait, hypotonia, benign nocturnal myoclonus, bifid uvula, moderate obstructive sleep apnea, and alternating esotropia. Prior to enrollment in the Undiagnosed Rare Disease Clinic (URDC), the patient's clinical exome testing was negative. The subsequent enrollment in URDC allowed further research investigations through whole genome sequencing (GS) that identified two compound heterozygous variants in the DOCK3 gene, ultimately yielding an unequivocal definitive molecular diagnosis.© 2025 The Author(s). Clinical Genetics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
The impact of polystyrene microplastics (PS-MPs) on the nervous system has been documented in the literature. Numerous studies have demonstrated that the activation of the epidermal growth factor receptor 4 (ErbB4) is crucial in neuronal injury and regeneration processes. This study investigated the role of targeted activation of ErbB4 receptor through a small molecule agonist, 4-bromo-1-hydroxy-2-naphthoic acid (C11H7BrO3, E4A), in mitigating PS-MPs-induced neuronal injury. The findings revealed that targeted activation of ErbB4 receptor significantly ameliorated cognitive behavioral deficits in mice exposed to PS-MPs. Furthermore, E4A treatment upregulated the expression of dedicator of cytokinesis 3 (DOCK3) and Sirtuin 3 (SIRT3) and mitigated mitochondrial and synaptic dysfunction within the hippocampus of PS-MPs-exposed mice. E4A also diminished the activation of the TLR4-NF-κB-NLRP3 signaling pathway, consequently reducing neuroinflammation. In vitro experiments demonstrated that E4A partially alleviated PS-MPs-induced hippocampal neuronal injury and its effects on microglial inflammation. In conclusion, the findings of this study indicate that targeted activation of ErbB4 receptor may mitigate neuronal damage and subsequent neuroinflammation, thereby alleviating hippocampal neuronal injury induced by PS-MPs exposure and ameliorating cognitive dysfunction. These results offer valuable insights for the development of potential therapeutic strategies.© 2025. The Author(s).
Youth-onset type 2 diabetes (T2D) is characterized by accelerated β-cell decline and early treatment failure, and there is an urgent need to improve the understanding of molecular drivers of loss of glycemic control (LOGC).To identify multiprotein signatures associated with loss of glycemic control (LOGC) in youth-onset T2D.Longitudinal observational study with a mean follow-up of 10.8 ± 3.8 years using data from the TODAY study, with external validation in three youth cohorts and one adult-onset T2D cohort.Multicenter clinical research study.Participants from the TODAY study (N = 374; age 14 ± 2 years; 37% male), of whom 72% experienced LOGC over 10.8 ± 3.8 years.None.LOGC, defined as HbA1c ≥ 8% for ≥6 months or inability to discontinue insulin after acute metabolic decompensation.Plasma proteomics quantified 7604 aptamers representing 6596 proteins using the SomaScan 7 K platform. Sixty-seven proteins were associated with LOGC after false discovery rate correction and multivariable adjustment. Key proteins included plexin-B2 (HR: 1.46 [95% CI: 1.29-1.66]) and semaphorin-6A (HR: 1.31 [1.18-1.47]), which were also associated with glycemic outcomes in independent youth and adult cohorts. Enrichment analyses implicated pathways related to axon guidance, immune response, inflammation, and metabolism.Novel proteins involved in axon guidance, immune response, inflammation, and metabolism associated with LOGC in youth-onset T2D with proteins demonstrating consistent associations across the lifespan and proteomic platforms.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Endocrine Society. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com. See the journal About page for additional terms.
DNA damage-inducible transcript 4 (DDIT4) participates in neuronal cell ferroptosis and can be upregulated by sevoflurane (Sev). This study aimed to explore whether silent DDIT4 can improve Sev-induced neuronal cell ferroptosis and its potential mechanism. HT22 and SH‑SY5Y cells were transfected with siDDIT4 and exposed to Sev with or without the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitor rapamycin. In both HT22 and SH-SY5Y cells, Sev exposure increased DDIT4, promoted ferroptosis, and inhibited the mTOR pathway (all P < 0.05). DDIT4 knockdown improved HT22 and SH-SY5Y cell viability (both P < 0.05), reduced reactive oxygen species (ROS) (both P < 0.05), malondialdehyde (MDA) (both P < 0.05), and Fe2+ accumulation (both P < 0.01), while increasing glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) (both P < 0.05). DDIT4 knockdown also elevated solute carrier family 7-member 11 (SLC7A11) expression in HT22 cells (P < 0.05). Additionally, DDIT4 knockdown activated the mTOR pathway in HT22 and SH-SY5Y cells (both P < 0.05). Notably, the addition of rapamycin abolished the protective effect of DDIT4 knockdown on Sev-induced ferroptosis in HT22 and SH-SY5Y cells (all P < 0.05). DDIT4 knockdown alleviates Sev-induced ferroptosis in neuronal cells by activating the mTOR pathway. The findings of this study support the possibility of DDIT4 as a therapeutic target for Sev-related neurotoxicity.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.
Skeletal muscle atrophy is a debilitating condition associated with diverse diseases and clinical interventions. Although triggers such as glucocorticoid excess or direct muscle injury disrupt the balance between protein homeostasis and tissue repair, the upstream molecular signals that actively preserve muscle integrity remain largely unknown. Semaphorin 4A (Sema4A) is a Class IV transmembrane semaphorin traditionally recognized for its roles in neural development and immune regulation; however, its function in skeletal muscle maintenance has not been explored.We first examined Sema4A expression in established models of muscle catabolism. Subsequently, adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated Sema4A restoration was employed to evaluate its therapeutic potential in both dexamethasone-induced atrophy and acute injury mouse models. Mechanistic studies were performed in C2C12 myotubes using gain- and loss-of-function approaches.Sema4A expression was significantly downregulated under atrophic conditions (p < 0.05). Restoration of Sema4A effectively attenuated dexamethasone-induced muscle loss (4.766 vs. 5.075 mg/g B.W., p = 0.0414) and accelerated functional recovery (6.219 × 10-2 vs. 7.124 × 10-2 N/g B.W., p = 0.0422). We identified Plexin B2 (Plxnb2) as the functional receptor mediating these effects. At the molecular level, Sema4A signalling suppressed FoxO3a nuclear translocation (FoxO3a positive cells: vector-Dex 27.99% vs. OE-Sema4A-Dex 12.49%, p < 0.05), thereby inhibiting the expression of key atrogenes, while simultaneously reactivating the PI3K-AKT-mTOR anabolic pathway. This reprogramming of intracellular metabolic signalling was further associated with the establishment of a reparative immune microenvironment, a process potentially modulated by muscle-derived factors such as Gdf15.Our study identifies Sema4A as a novel protective regulator that mitigates muscle atrophy and enhances regeneration through a dual mechanism: restoring intracellular anabolic signalling and fostering a proregenerative immune niche. These findings highlight Sema4A as a promising therapeutic target for the treatment of muscle-wasting disorders.© 2026 The Author(s). Journal of Cachexia, Sarcopenia and Muscle published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42005444 is a review article
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH) is a progressive liver disease with limited therapeutic options, and the role of ferroptosis in its pathogenesis remains to be fully understood. In this study, we aimed to investigate the action of DNA damage-inducible transcript 4 (DDIT4) in the ferroptosis and regulation of MASH progression.The Gene Expression Omnibus database of MASH mice models and ferroptosis database were used to identify crucial ferroptosis related genes in MASH. Hepatic DDIT4 expression was detected in MASH patients, mouse models and hepatocytes. The functional role of DDIT4 was assessed in different diet-induced MASH mice models with hepatocyte-specific DDIT4 overexpression or knockout. RNA-sequencing and immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry (IP-MS) were performed to determine DDIT4 interacting proteins. Molecular docking was used to explore the potential compound targeting DDIT4.We have discovered significantly elevated DDIT4 levels in mice and patients with MASH, which were positively correlated with MASH severity. Hepatocyte-specific over-expression of DDIT4 aggravated ferroptosis and MASH progression, while DDIT4 deletion alleviated ferroptosis and MASH progression. Mechanistically, DDIT4 decreased glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) expression in an mTORC1 dependent manner. Additionally, DDIT4 interacted with cytosolic GPX4 and inhibited TOM22-mediated mitochondrial translocation, resulting in mitochondrial GPX4 reduction and ferroptosis activation. Importantly, through molecular docking and surface plasmon resonance (SPR), we have identified quercetagetin, a natural flavonoid, as a potential DDIT4-targeting compound. Administration of quercetagetin alleviated hepatic steatosis, inflammation, and fibrosis in MASH mice.Our study establishes the DDIT4-GPX4-ferroptosis axis as a new regulatory node in MASH progression and highlights DDIT4 as a potential therapeutic target for MASH.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Single-cell fixed RNA profiling (FLEX) is a novel technique that captures RNA expression in frozen tissues at a single-cell resolution. We applied FLEX to mouse model of liver fibrosis progression and regression to identify novel antifibrotic targets.Mice were administered intraperitoneal thioacetamide for 10 weeks to induce fibrosis, regression was assessed 2 weeks after cessation. The livers were fixed, dissociated, and analysed using FLEX. Molecular validation included immunoblotting, immunohistochemistry, gene silencing/overexpression, cytokine/phosphokinase arrays, and human liver samples.Approximately 40,000 liver cells were profiled, integrated, and annotated into 10 major cell types using lineage-specific markers. Pericentral signature restoration in hepatocytes, scar-resolving genes (Mmp14 and Ctsl), fenestrae restoration in liver sinusoidal endothelial cells, anti-inflammatory Kupffer cells, reduced fibrogenic cholangiocytes, and recovery-associated immune cell subsets were observed. During fibrosis, monocyte-derived macrophages secrete semaphorin-4D (SEMA4D), which binds to Plexin B2 on hepatic stellate cells (HSCs). SEMA4D+ cells were upregulated in mouse fibrotic livers (n = 6, p <0.05). Recombinant SEMA4D induces type I collagen in HSCs, whereas humanised monoclonal IgG4 SEMA4D blockade (VX15/2503) attenuates fibrosis in vivo (n = 5, p <0.05). LIM and cysteine-rich domains 1 (LMCD1) was enriched in fibrotic HSCs and suppressed during regression. LMCD1 knockdown reduced the expression of fibrotic protein, while LMCD1 overexpression promoted the expression of fibrotic protein via AKT/mTOR signalling. LMCD1 and SEMA4D are localised in the fibrotic septa and are correlated with the fibrotic stage of MASLD (n = 34, p <0.05) and HCV (n = 76, p <0.05) in humans.This FLEX-based single-cell atlas revealed critical transcriptional programs and cell-cell interactions, identifying SEMA4D and LMCD1 as promising therapeutic targets for liver fibrosis.In this study, we applied a novel technique, single-cell fixed RNA profiling, to profile 38,136 cells obtained from control, thioacetamide-induced liver fibrosis, and regression-phase mouse livers, generating a high-resolution atlas of liver fibrosis progression and regression. We identified the transcriptomic patterns of regressed cell subpopulations and uncovered two key therapeutic targets: the macrophage-derived factor semaphorin-4D (SEMA4D) and the hepatic stellate cell-specific transcription factor LIM and cysteine-rich domains 1 (LMCD1). Treatment with a humanised monoclonal IgG4 antibody against SEMA4D significantly alleviated liver fibrosis in the thioacetamide-induced mouse model. SEMA4D and LMCD1 expression correlated with the metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease-related fibrosis stage, and the attenuation of SEMA4D and LMCD1 after HCV-sustained virologic response reduced the risk of progression to hepatocellular carcinoma.Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Midkine (MK) protein plays a critical regulatory role in tooth development and odontogenic differentiation, and has been shown to significantly promote reparative dentine formation. However, the direct application of recombinant MK protein as a pulp capping material presents clinical challenges and may increase medical costs. In contrast, peptides offer a cost-effective and feasible alternative by overcoming many of the limitations associated with full-length proteins. This study aimed to develop a novel MK-derived peptide for use in vital pulp therapy (VPT).The human MK protein sequence was appropriately cleaved, resulting in the generation of multiple MK-derived peptides. The peptide with the highest mineralisation potential was identified through quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) and alizarin red S (ARS) staining. Cell proliferation, live/dead cell staining and apoptosis assays were conducted to evaluate the in vitro biosafety of MK-derived peptide. The optimal concentration of MK-derived peptide for promoting cell migration and odontogenic differentiation was determined using cell migration assays, qPCR, Western blotting, alkaline phosphatase staining and ARS staining. RNA sequencing, bioinformatics analysis, transmission electron microscopy and siRNA were used to explore the potential mechanism by which MK-derived peptide promotes odontogenesis. A rat pulp capping model was established, and in vivo evaluation was conducted through Micro-CT, H&E, Masson and immunohistochemical staining.Following appropriate cleavage of the human MK protein, a total of 15 peptides were generated, among which MK-12 (KARYNAQCQETI) exhibited the highest mineralisation potential. MK-12 demonstrated favourable in vitro biocompatibility at concentrations below 200 μg/mL, with the optimal effect on promoting cell migration and odontogenic differentiation observed at 100 μg/mL. RNA-sequencing and functional analyses revealed that MK-12 was closely associated with autophagy and mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signalling pathways. Subsequent experiments demonstrated that MK-12 modulates the mTOR pathway and autophagy by upregulating the expression of DNA damage-inducible transcript 4 (DDIT4). In vivo studies confirmed that MK-12 effectively promoted the formation of reparative dentine and exhibited favourable biocompatibility.MK-12, a peptide derived from midkine, was found to promote reparative dentine formation via DDIT4/mTOR pathway-mediated activation of autophagy, thereby providing a mechanistic basis for its potential clinical application in VPT.© 2026 British Endodontic Society. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Plexin-B1 is a transmembrane receptor that integrates signals from Rho-family and Ras-family (Rap1b) GTPases to regulate cellular processes. While ligand simulated activation of the receptor is largely understood, the role of membrane composition and GTPase allosteric effects on plexin structure, internal protein dynamics, and function is still to be elucidated. Here, we performed multi-replica, 1 μs all-atom simulations of Plexin-B1-GTPase complexes on PIP2- and PIP3-containing membranes to investigate the effects of these two signaling lipids, as well as on the GTPases. We found that both Rap1b and Rnd1 stably associate with the membrane, with PIP2 promoting broader lipid engagement and stronger Rap1b-Plexin-B1 interactions, whereas PIP3 enhances Rnd1-Plexin contacts and induces a membrane proximal orientation of Plexin's juxtamembrane helix and makes contacts with a previously discovered activation switch loop. Contact map and network analyses revealed lipid-dependent shifts in allosteric communication, with PIP2 favoring Rap1b-centric hotspots and PIP3 favoring Rnd1-centric pathways. These predictions allow us to suggest a model for plexin intracellular region activation where both the identity of phosphoinositides and GTPase context synergistically stabilize Plexin-B1 membrane engagement, alter structural dynamics, and allosteric networks. Thus, we propose that the membrane is an active modulator of plexin receptor signaling.
The initiation and resolution of acute inflammatory responses rely on highly orchestrated biochemical and cellular programs, in which a finely tuned repertoire of mediators regulates the dynamics, migration, and effector functions of immune cells in space and time. Persistent, incompletely resolved inflammatory reactions disrupt this delicate homeostatic equilibrium and foster the development of severe acute and chronic diseases. Central mediators that terminate inflammatory responses and actively transition them into resolution are therefore of paramount importance. These include not only specialized pro-resolving lipid mediators but also peptide and protein mediators, cytokines with context-dependent pro-resolving function, stromal and neuronal signals, as well as cell-intrinsic resolution mechanisms such as efferocytosis, metabolic reprogramming, and tissue-repair programs. Innate and adaptive immune cells integrate these signals and, as major sources and effectors of pro-resolving mediators, drive clearance of harmful stimuli and dying cells and foster tissue repair. Within this broader network of pro-resolving pathways, neuronal guidance proteins (NGPs) are increasingly recognized as critical regulators of immune cell positioning and function that act far beyond their classical roles in axon guidance and are now regarded as integral components of the active inflammation-resolution program. This chapter interrogates the fundamental biology of selected NGPs-including Netrin-1, repulsive guidance molecule A (RGM-A), Semaphorin 7A (Sema7A), Neogenin (Neo1), and Plexin C1 (PLXC1)-and delineates their dual roles within inflammatory and resolution programs, with particular emphasis on how these cues sculpt leukocyte trafficking, promote cellular clearance, and drive immune cell reprogramming along the temporal axis from the early phase of acute inflammation to the restoration of tissue homeostasis.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland AG.
Breast cancer is a malignant tumour that affects women's health. In clinical practice, breast cancer is mainly treated by surgery, radiation, and drugs, but the risk of metastasis and recurrence is high, and metastasis is inextricably linked to the transcription and regulation of many molecule. In this manuscript, we first found 27 highly expressed genes and 58 lower expressed genes related to metastasis, then Plexin A2 was found highly expressed in the tissues from metastasis breast cancer and exerted as promote role in cell proliferation, migration, and invasion of MDA-MB-231. Also, CoIP-MS was used to detect the proteins which bind with Plexin A2 and differential expressed in highly metastasis MDA-MB-231 and 9 proteins were selected in highly invasion MDA-MB-231. Plexin A2 was found bind with MCM7 in a binding set of S45 through a phosphoserine/threonine binding group in highly metastasis MDA-MB-231. Moreover, Plexin A2 and MCM7 was found involved in cell proliferation, apoptosis inhibition, migration, and invasion of MDA-MB-231. In conclusion, Plexin A2 bind with MCM7 in a binding set of S45 through a phosphoserine/threonine binding group, Plexin A2 and MCM7 was involved in cell proliferation, apoptosis inhibition, migration, and invasion of MDA-MB-231. These results showed that Plexin A2 can be considered as a promising biomarker in breast cancer metastasis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42353055 is a review article
Receptor antagonists represent a major class of targeted cancer therapeutics, yet SELEX-based aptamer discovery often yields high-affinity binders that display limited functional blockade because epitope positioning is not explicitly selected. Herein, we report a multistage discovery and optimization workflow that integrates cell-SELEX, cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM), and a structure-constrained follow-up SELEX to generate ligand-blocking antagonists of Neuropilin-2 (NRP2), a cancer-associated coreceptor for vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). We performed initial unbiased cell-SELEX against primary human urine-derived renal progenitor cells and identified an NRP2-binding DNA aptamer (NRP2Apt) with nanomolar affinity and high specificity. Using cryo-EM analysis of the NRP2Apt-NRP2 complex, we defined the spatial relationship between aptamer structural elements and the VEGF-binding pocket, providing direct epitope-level insight that is inaccessible from sequence information alone. Guided by these structural observations, we designed an NRP2Apt-scaffolded library in which a VEGF-proximal loop was extended and randomized, and subjected this library to NRP2 protein SELEX, yielding a lead antagonist with substantially enhanced inhibition of VEGF-NRP2 interactions while preserving strong NRP2 affinity. Finally, inspired by the homodimeric form of VEGF ligands, we engineered a bivalent aptamer that displayed enhanced antagonism and markedly increased serum stability. Collectively, we establish a cryo-EM-guided, iterative SELEX framework in which structural constraints are incorporated into library design to optimize the ligand-blocking activity of receptor-binding aptamers.
Post-acute sequelae of SARS-CoV-2 infection (PASC), particularly neurological manifestations, remain a significant therapeutic challenge, likely driven by persistent inflammation, immune dysregulation, and endothelial dysfunction. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover trial, 10 patients with post-COVID-19 neurological symptoms received C1-esterase inhibitor (C1-INH; RUCONEST®) or placebo over two eight-week phases. Longitudinal plasma proteomics (SomaScan®) profiled molecular dynamics during and after C1-INH treatment. C1-INH administration was associated with distinct, phase-specific proteomic signatures, including lower levels of inflammatory-associated proteins such as CRP and IL-6, increased levels of neuroimmune and endothelial repair proteins (Neuropilin-2, CD83, C1QTNF5), and modulation of bradykinin-kinin and extracellular matrix pathways. These molecular shifts were evaluated in relation to clinical change scores during the active treatment windows. Several proteomic changes were observed at timepoint 26 after treatment cessation, describing candidate post-treatment molecular trajectories. In conclusion, these results provide exploratory mechanistic insights and support the need for validation in larger, prospective cohorts. Together, these findings prioritize immune and vascular pathways for further investigation in PASC and may have relevance to other post-infectious neuroimmune conditions.© 2026. The Author(s).
Antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs) are expanding treatment options in endometrial carcinoma, but the distribution of actionable surface targets across histologic, molecular, and genomic subgroups remains incompletely defined.This single-institution retrospective tissue microarray (TMA) study included 312 endometrial carcinomas: 158 endometrioid and 154 serous tumors. Trophoblast cell-surface antigen 2 (TROP2) was quantified by histochemical score (H-score); human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) was assessed using endometrial carcinoma-specific and gastric/DESTINY-PanTumor02 criteria; and folate receptor alpha (FRα) positivity was defined as ≥75% viable tumor cells with ≥2+ membranous staining. Molecular class was assigned using a hierarchical DNA polymerase epsilon (POLE)-mutant, microsatellite instability/mismatch repair-deficient (MSI/MMRd), p53-abnormal, and no specific molecular profile (NSMP) classifier. Tumor mutational burden (TMB) and recurrent genomic alterations were analyzed in relation to biomarker expression.TROP2 was broadly expressed, with median H-scores of 280 in endometrioid and 200 in serous carcinomas. HER2 gastric-score 2+/3+ expression and FRα positivity were enriched in serous versus endometrioid carcinoma (22.5% vs 8.9% and 20.1% vs 4.4%), restricted to FIGO grade 3 tumors, and concentrated in p53-abnormal disease. FRα positivity was absent in POLE-mutant and MSI/MMRd tumors. HER2 2+/3+ expression correlated with erb-b2 receptor tyrosine kinase 2 (ERBB2) alterations, whereas FRα-positive tumors were enriched for TP53 alterations and showed lower frequencies of ARID1A and PTEN alterations. Triple-negative TROP2/HER2/FRα tumors were uncommon (6/308, 1.9%).TROP2 is broadly expressed in endometrial carcinoma, whereas HER2 and FRα define a more restricted high-grade, serous/serous-like, p53-abnormal compartment, supporting biomarker-informed ADC development.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Clazosentan, a selective endothelin-A (ET-A) receptor antagonist, is used to prevent cerebral vasospasm after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Although pulmonary edema and fluid retention are recognized adverse effects, hypoxemia associated with atelectasis has not been described. Endothelin-1 contributes to hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction (HPV), which preserves ventilation-perfusion (V/Q) matching by diverting blood flow from poorly ventilated regions; pharmacologic ET-A blockade may attenuate HPV, increasing intrapulmonary shunt and impairing oxygenation. We report a man in his 60s with aneurysmal SAH (World Federation of Neurosurgical Societies [WFNS] I, Fisher 3) who underwent clipping surgery and postoperative clazosentan infusion (10 mg/h, standard Japanese dosage). On day 7 of infusion, hypoxemia (SpO2 < 90% room air) developed; on day 8, arterial blood gas showed PaO2 62.5 mmHg with a PaO2/FiO2 (P/F) ratio of 109. Chest computed tomography (CT) demonstrated right lower-lobe atelectasis without pulmonary edema or pleural effusion, and echocardiography showed normal cardiac function. Clazosentan was discontinued and corticosteroid therapy initiated, after which oxygenation improved and the atelectasis resolved. The patient was extubated on day 18 and discharged with good neurological recovery. This case illustrates a plausible mechanism whereby ET-A receptor blockade suppresses HPV, exacerbating V/Q mismatch in the presence of segmental atelectasis. Improvement after drug withdrawal supports this association. Clinicians should recognize that hypoxemia during clazosentan therapy may occur independently of fluid overload and warrants early respiratory evaluation.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558375 is a review article
Oxidative stress and neuroinflammation are critical contributors to hypoxic-ischemic brain injury. Microglia, the CNS-resident immune cells, undergo rapid activation in response to hypoxic stress. Endothelin-1 (ET-1), a vasoconstrictor implicated in cerebrovascular pathology, is upregulated by hypoxia; however, its role in microglial activation remains poorly understood. HMC3 human microglial cells were exposed to hypoxia (1% O2) for 4 hours. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) were quantified by flow cytometry. ET-1 and interleukin-6 (IL-6) protein concentrations were measured by ELISA and mRNA levels by qPCR. Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) activation and ET-1 localization were assessed by flow cytometry and immunofluorescence, respectively. The endothelin B receptor (ETBR) antagonist BQ788 was used to assess ET-1 signaling in hypoxia-induced responses. Hypoxia significantly upregulated ET-1 gene expression (5.0-fold increase, p < 0.001, n = 4) and elevated ET-1 protein production by 1.4-fold (p < 0.01, n = 4). IL-6 expression and secretion increased 1.5-fold under hypoxic conditions (p < 0.01, n = 4), an effect that was attenuated by BQ788 pretreatment. ROS levels increased 1.9-fold in hypoxic HMC3 cells (p < 0.01, n = 4) but were significantly reduced by ETBR inhibition. Additionally, hypoxia elevated the percentage of MAPK-activated cells compared to both normoxic and BQ788-treated groups (p < 0.01). These findings demonstrate that hypoxia induces ET-1 overexpression, ROS generation, MAPK activation, and IL-6 production in microglia, establishing a self-perpetuating cycle of neuroinflammation. ETBR blockade with BQ788 disrupts this cascade, suggesting that ET-1 signaling is a promising therapeutic target to mitigate secondary injury in hypoxic-ischemic brain conditions.
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42555010
Annexin A1 (AnxA1) regulates inflammation and neovascularization in ocular diseases, influencing growth factor signaling and cytoskeletal dynamics. Accordingly, this study aimed to investigate the role of the AnxA1 protein in diabetic retinopathy (DR) and to understand how its absence affects inflammation and vascular dysfunction in DR.DR model was induced 12 weeks after streptozotocin injection in wild-type (AnxA1+/+) and AnxA1 knockout (AnxA1-/-) mice. We evaluated the consequences of AnxA1 deficiency on retinal morphology, Müller cell activation, inflammation, and angiogenesis associated with DR. We also performed an in silico analysis in wild-type animals with DR induced for 6 weeks and in a dataset of patients with DR. Furthermore, a choroidal neovascularization model was used to evaluate the role of AnxA1 in angiogenesis signaling.AnxA1 deficiency exacerbated selective systemic inflammatory alterations and promoted retinal neurodegeneration associated with DR. AnxA1-/- diabetic animals exhibited increased circulating IL-6, IL-17, chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 1, and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 levels, retinal monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 and IL-4 upregulation, dysregulated MAPK/STAT3 signaling, and altered gliosis responses. In addition, AnxA1 deficiency was associated with a proangiogenic signaling profile characterized by increased retinal levels of EGF, VEGF-A, and endothelin-1 in DR, whereas the upregulation of VEGF-C was predominantly observed in the choroidal neovascularization model.Endogenous AnxA1 modulates inflammatory-glial and proangiogenic signaling pathways in the diabetic retina. Its deficiency is associated with selective inflammatory dysregulation and enhanced angiogenesis-related signaling during DR progression.
To compare the effects of High Intensity Interval Training (HIIT) and Moderate Intensity Continuous Training (MICT) on blood pressure homeostasis, cardiovascular structure, and function, and to explore the underlying neuro-humoral regulatory mechanisms in patients with essential hypertension (EH).A total of 56 EH patients were randomly (1:1) assigned to the MICT (35 min) or HIIT (1 × 10 min with 2 min intervals) for 8 weeks, three times per week. The primary outcome was the change in flow-mediated dilation (FMD). Blood pressure, traditional cardiovascular risk factors, cardiovascular structure and function, as well as neural, specific humoral, and nonspecific humoral regulation were assessed.Among 56 patients with EH who were randomized, 54 (96.4%) completed the 8-week evaluation. After an 8-week intervention, the improvement in FMD was significantly greater in the HIIT group compared with the MICT group (mean difference: 0.85% [95% CI, 0.50-1.21]). HIIT showed favored changes in nitric oxide, FMD, and endothelin-1, brachial-ankle pulse wave velocity, peak systolic velocity, corrected QT Interval, Ratio of Early Diastolic Mitral Valve Peak Flow Velocity to Early Diastolic Myocardial Velocity, angiotensin-(1-7), and C-reactive protein in EH patients (all P < 0.05). Both HIIT and MICT significantly improved systolic blood pressure, pulsatility index, resistive index, angiotensin II, and norepinephrine in EH patients (all P < 0.05), with no statistically significant differences between the two groups (all P > 0.05).Both HIIT and MICT yielded comparable effects on lowering systolic blood pressure and regulating neurohumoral factors. FMD was improved to a greater extent with HIIT, which also showed superior efficacy in arterial stiffness, hemodynamics, cardiac diastolic function, and inflammatory biomarkers.https://www.chictr.org.cn, identifier ChiCTR2500097077.© 2026 Yan, Liu, Gao, Guo, Wu, Gong, Gao and Wang.
Women with gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) are more likely to develop cardiovascular disease (CVD) within 3 to 10 years following pregnancy. Despite a return to normoglycemia shortly after gestation, GDM mothers still possess an increased risk of future CVD. In this study, we use a novel preclinical hormonal model of GDM to examine the mechanisms underlying future vascular and cardiac dysfunction in mothers with a history of GDM. We treated 16-week-old pregnant C57BL/6J mice with the insulin receptor antagonist (S961; 30nmol/kg, s.c.) from gestational day (GD) 7 (second trimester of pregnancy) until delivery to induce GDM. GDM mice developed systolic and diastolic dysfunction, arterial stiffness, hypertension, increased cardiac mass, and exercise intolerance at 10 weeks postpartum compared with saline-treated pregnant or S961-treated virgin mice. We also observed decreased plasma nitric oxide (NO) and increased endothelin-1 (ET-1) in GDM. The aorta of S961-induced GDM mice had increased pulse wave velocity, impaired vascular relaxation, remodeling, elevated reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and adhesion molecules, increased ET-1 type A receptor expression, and reduced sirtuin-1 (SIRT-1) expression. The left ventricle of S961-induced GDM mice exhibited fibrosis, thickness, and increased ROS production. Additionally, alterations in cardiac kinase activity in the nitric oxide/cyclic guanosine monophosphate/protein kinase G (NO/cGMP/PRKG) and AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) alpha pathways were observed at 10 weeks postpartum using novel Pamgene kinome technology. Thus, endothelin activation, suppressed NO/cGMP/PRKG signaling, impaired AMPK, and altered SIRT1 may be responsible for the development of vascular stiffness and cardiac dysfunction in mothers with a history of GDM.
Coronary microvascular disease (CMVD), particularly ischemia with non-obstructive coronary arteries (INOCA)-related CMVD, is associated with recurrent angina, impaired quality of life, and an increased risk of adverse cardiovascular outcomes. Although recognition of this condition is increasing, treatment options remain limited, and many patients continue to have symptoms despite conventional medical therapy. Acupuncture has shown potential as an adjunctive therapy for angina-related symptoms and other cardiovascular conditions. However, high-quality evidence for INOCA-related CMVD remains scarce. This trial aims to evaluate the efficacy and safety of acupuncture as an adjunct to conventional medical therapy in patients with INOCA-related CMVD.This prospective, single-center, randomized, sham-controlled, parallel-group pilot trial will recruit 60 participants with INOCA-related CMVD at Guang'anmen Hospital, China Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing, China. Eligible participants will be randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to an acupuncture group or a sham acupuncture group. Both groups will continue guideline-directed conventional medical therapy. The acupuncture group will receive true acupuncture at Dabao (SP21), Neiguan (PC6), Danzhong (CV17), Xinshu (BL15), and Geshu (BL17), while the sham group will receive non-penetrating sham acupuncture at the same acupoints with the same schedule. Treatment will be given three times weekly for 4 consecutive weeks, followed by a 4-week follow-up. The primary outcome is the response rate at week 4, defined as the proportion of participants with an increase of at least 5 points in the Seattle Angina Questionnaire summary score from baseline. Secondary outcomes include changes in SAQ scores, angina attack frequency, EuroQol 5-Dimension 5-Level questionnaire, traditional Chinese medicine syndrome score, nitric oxide, endothelin-1, and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein. Additional assessments include Clinical Global Impression-Improvement, expectancy and credibility assessments, and blinding assessment. Safety evaluation includes monitoring adverse events and serious adverse events throughout the trial.This pilot trial will provide preliminary evidence on the safety and potential efficacy of acupuncture for INOCA-related CMVD and may help clarify its effects on angina-related health status, quality of life, and selected endothelial and inflammation-related markers. The findings are expected to inform future larger multicenter confirmatory trials.International Traditional Medicine Clinical Trial Registry (http://itmctr.ccebtcm.org.cn/), Identifier ITMCTR2026000515.© 2026 Meng, Ma, Sun, Xia, Zhao, Bai, Zhu, Shi and Zhang.
Naturally occurring isoforms of the proto-oncogene Erb-B2 Receptor Tyrosine Kinase 2 (ERBB2, HER2) incite unique pathways of tumor progression in mouse models of breast cancer. Although each isoform has been shown to progress to metastasis, the N-terminally truncated isoform (p95) was previously shown to be biased toward early distant dissemination prior to detection. Here we show how HER2 isoforms differentially promote go-or-grow phenotypes through biased utilization of tyrosine autophosphorylation sites in the intracellular tail of HER2. Fluorescently barcoded humanized full-length HER2 (WT), exon-16 splice HER2 isoform (d16), and p95 expressing tumor cell lines were derived from HER2 Crainbow mice, then utilized for a series of functional assays including proliferation, tumor growth rate, cell motility, collective cell migration, cellular morphology, and invasive potential. Quantitative analysis reveals biased tumor cell behaviors across each genotype. WT tumor cells are biased toward proliferation and collective migration, d16 cells are biased toward proliferation and individual motility, and p95 tumor cells are biased toward individual motility and invasion. Single cell analysis reveals a myogenic-like state transition in p95 cells accompanied by an increased nuclear translocation of the Myocardin Related Transcription Factor A (MRTFA). MRTFA knockdown, as well as knockdown of a downstream effector, Transforming growth factor beta 1 induced transcript 1 (TGFB1I1), both inhibit the p95 invasive phenotype. Furthermore, intracellular residue tyrosine 1139 (Y1139) is necessary for MRTFA translocation, and when edited in p95 cells (Y1139F) invasion and motility phenotypes are subsequently lost. Our data illustrate the importance of functionally selective signaling in HER2 and highlight the need for therapeutics that intercept metastasis by targeting HER2 biased signaling.
Timely identification of actionable fusion and exon-skipping events is essential for selecting targeted therapies in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), yet routine RNA-based assays frequently fail in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) specimens, leading to missed treatment opportunities. Amplicon-based DNA and RNA unified next-generation sequencing (D+R NGS) may enable guideline-recommended profiling from limited or degraded tissue, but its performance in real-world specimens is unclear.The D+R NGS assay uses 20 ng of co-extracted RNA and DNA from FFPE tissue. Library preparation is performed in a single-tube amplicon-based workflow, followed by simultaneous sequencing and automated bioinformatics analysis. Its performance was evaluated in 759 NSCLC FFPE samples. Concordance was assessed against droplet digital polymerase chain reaction (ddPCR) in 46 matched fresh surgical specimens. Detection rates were evaluated in 172 surgical, 168 biopsy, and 142 cytology samples, all processed within one year. Clinical applicability was examined in 231 archived specimens stored for 1-8 years with known reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) or DNA-based next-generation sequencing (DNA-based NGS) fusion/skipping results.The D+R NGS assay demonstrated exceptional analytical validity, showing 100% concordance with ddPCR in 46 fresh NSCLC samples for 28 mutations and 18 fusions/skipping events, with strong correlations in variant allele frequencies (R = 0.997, p < 0.001) and fusion read counts (R = 0.799, p < 0.001). It achieved high success rates across diverse sample types: 99.4% in surgical, 98.6% in cytology, and 95.2% in biopsy specimens, with robust performance even in samples with tumor areas <3 mm². In challenging low-input RNA scenarios (as low as 5-10 ng), the assay reliably detected fusions, and it identified actionable alterations in 5 of 11 samples that had failed routine quality control (QC) due to insufficient RNA. When applied to 231 archival samples stored for 1-8 years, the assay confirmed 139 known fusions/skipping events (99.3%) and detected 18.2% additional fusions in DNA-NGS-negative cases, including receptor tyrosine kinase (ROS1) fusions and MET proto-oncogene, receptor tyrosine kinase (MET) exon 14 skipping, while maintaining a > 95% success rate despite a decline in read counts over time.The amplicon-based D+R NGS method demonstrates high compatibility with diverse NSCLC FFPE samples, overcoming RNA degradation challenges in small-biopsy and long-term archived specimens.Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Inc.
FLNA encodes filamin A, a cytoskeletal actin-binding protein with critical roles in neuronal migration, mechano-transduction, and organ morphogenesis. Pathogenic FLNA variants are classically associated with periventricular nodular heterotopia (PVNH), epilepsy, and multisystem manifestations, although interpretation of missense variants remains challenging because of marked variable expressivity and limited functional evidence.We describe a mother-daughter pair carrying the heterozygous FLNA missense variant c.5776 C > T (p.Pro1926Ser). Clinical, electroencephalographic, neuroradiological, cardiological, and genetic data were retrospectively reviewed. Variant interpretation was performed according to ACMG/AMP criteria and supported by in silico and structural analyses.The proband, a 13-year-old girl, presented with migraine with aura, epilepsy responsive to levetiracetam, normal brain MRI, and QT interval prolongation, with no pathogenic variants identified in established long-QT genes. Her mother, who carried the same variant, had focal epilepsy, migraine with aura, and subtle PVNH on brain MRI. Additional family history included a maternally related male cousin reportedly hemizygous for the same variant and affected by a severe congenital multisystem phenotype including valvular and extracerebral abnormalities, overall consistent with FLNA-related disease. The p.Pro1926Ser substitution was absent from population databases, involved a highly conserved residue within immunoglobulin-like repeat 17 of the rod-2 domain, and was predicted to be deleterious by most computational tools.These findings support a likely contributory role of FLNA p.Pro1926Ser in a variably expressive neurodevelopmental and multisystem disorder in which epilepsy represents the predominant neurological phenotype.© 2026. Fondazione Società Italiana di Neurologia.
Diabetic retinopathy (DR) reflects retinal microvascular injury and systemic immune-metabolic stress, and most public DR transcriptomic datasets lack paired microbiome/metabolomic profiles. We used gutMGene v2.0 as a curated microbe/metabolite-host gene prior and integrated it with peripheral blood transcriptomics from GSE221521. Candidate genes were refined by weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), repeated resampling, cross-dataset assessment, mechanism scoring, peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) single-cell localization and filamin A (FLNA)-centered single-cell gene regulatory network (GRN) virtual knockout. The gutMGene prior contained 238 host genes; 15 DR-associated genes overlapped this prior, and WGCNA retained ten candidate gut microbe and microbial metabolite-related genes (GMMRGs): FLNA, AKT1, IRAK1, BCL10, CDK6, CTSD, JUP, CXCL1, CXCR2 and IL4R. Resampling prioritized FLNA as the most consistent candidate. Cross-dataset assessment localized the strongest signal to type 2 diabetes (T2D) PBMCs, retinal endothelial cells and advanced proliferative diabetic retinopathy with diabetic macular edema (PDR + DME) retinal tissue, with weaker separation in whole blood, broad retinal tissue and six-donor type 1 diabetes (T1D) PBMCs. FLNA virtual knockout predicted cell-context-dependent perturbation of immune-related transcriptional programs, including IL4R in DR B cells and CTSD in DR monocytes/NK cells. This prior-guided study identifies FLNA within a ten-gene GMMRG set as a circulating host-response signal that links curated microbe/metabolite-host records to immune-vascular and cytoskeletal remodeling in DR.
Neural stem cells (NSCs) are the basis of neurogenesis and neural regeneration and are widely used as models for drug test and disease therapy. However, how NSCs self-renewal is modulated is not fully understood. In this study, we show that cytoskeletal Filamin A (FLNA) acts as a negative regulator in NSCs proliferation or self-renew. FLNA can be localized to the nucleoli of both NE-4C and C17.2 cell lines. FLNA silencing activated the expression of Pol Ⅰ products. In contrast, FLNA overexpression dampened rDNA transcription, suggesting that FLNA suppresses NSCs proliferation by downregulating Pol Ⅰ-directed transcription. Mechanistically, FLNA downregulates Pol I-directed transcription by inhibiting RRN3 expression and the occupancies of the Pol I transcription machinery factors at the rDNA promoter. In addition, FLNA suppresses NSCs proliferation by maintaining high levels of P53 and PTEN expression. Finally, we show that FLNA silencing does not affect the identity of neural stem cells, but inhibits neuronal differentiation from neural stem cells. These findings provide a novel insight into the mechanisms by which FLNA negatively regulates NSCs self-renew.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Sustained Hippo/Yes-associated protein (YAP) activation drives triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), but druggable upstream regulators remain unclear. We investigated G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) as membrane inputs for YAP activation. TCGA-based Hippo/YAP signature analysis, marketed-drug GPCR annotation, and siRNA screening using connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) identified endothelin receptor type A (EDNRA). EDNRA function was tested by knockdown, overexpression, endothelin-1 (ET-1) stimulation, and atrasentan blockade in TNBC cells and xenografts. YAP regulation was examined by immunoblotting, RT-qPCR, TEAD reporter assays, subcellular localization, docking, co-immunoprecipitation, mutagenesis, ChIP-qPCR, and CRISPRi. EDNRA correlated with Hippo/YAP signatures, adverse clinical features, and poor outcome. EDNRA depletion or atrasentan suppressed proliferation, migration, stem-like populations, and xenograft growth, whereas EDNRA overexpression or ET-1 had opposite effects. Mechanistically, EDNRA reduced YAP Ser127 phosphorylation, promoted nuclear YAP accumulation, and enhanced TEAD transcription through Gαq/11-Rho/ROCK-LATS signaling. Mutating predicted EDNRA-Gαq/11 interface residues impaired YAP activation and tumor-promoting activity. Reciprocally, YAP/TEAD4 enhanced EDNRA transcription through an enhancer-associated region. Atrasentan also sensitized TNBC cells to paclitaxel and produced positive zero interaction potency (ZIP) synergy scores. EDNRA establishes a druggable positive feedback loop with Hippo/YAP signaling and represents a potential therapeutic vulnerability in YAP-driven TNBC.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Over the last 34 years, the Eilat Conference on New Antiepileptic Drugs and Devices has provided an interactive forum for stakeholders to discuss investigational and recently licensed treatments for seizures and epilepsy. The Eighteenth Eilat Conference on New Antiepileptic Drugs and Devices (EILAT XVIII) took place in Madrid, Spain, on May 3-6, 2026. This article provides summaries of eight treatments in preclinical and early clinical development that were presented at EILAT XVIII. These include AUT00206, a positive allosteric modulator of Kv3.1 and Kv3.2 voltage-gated potassium channels in development for the treatment of rare epilepsy syndromes as well as neurodevelopmental and neuropsychiatric disorders; ION283, an antisense oligonucleotide designed to suppress the expression of glycogen synthase 1, under investigation for the treatment of Lafora disease; MSCA-7136, a selective allosteric RAS/mitogen-activated protein kinase-extracellular signal regulated kinase (MEK) inhibitor being developed for the treatment of focal seizures associated with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy and seizures associated with tuberous sclerosis complex; OV329, a selective inhibitor of γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) aminotransferase, in development for the treatment of drug-resistant focal seizures; PTI5803 (probenecid), an uricosuric agent and a blocker of pannexin 1 channels, repurposed as a treatment for seizures associated with focal cortical dysplasia; simufilam, a filamin A modulator under investigation for the treatment of tuberous sclerosis complex-related epilepsy; SN-2000, a selective allosteric phosphodiesterase 4B inhibitor, in development for the treatment of focal seizures; and sodium selenate, a promoter of the dephosphorylation of pathological hyperphosphorylated tau in the brain, under investigation as a disease-modifying agent in mesial temporal lobe epilepsy. Treatments in more advanced clinical development are discussed in an accompanying article.© 2026 The Author(s). Epilepsia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of International League Against Epilepsy.
Spatially confined β-adrenergic receptor-cAMP nanodomain signaling depends on scaffolded protein-protein interactions (PPIs), yet converting such nanointerfaces into cell-active disruptor peptides remains challenging. Here, we identify a previously unrecognized phosphodiesterase 4A (PDE4A)-filamin A complex in human cardiac tissue that is disrupted in dilated cardiomyopathy. To target this interaction, we developed a nanodomain-resolved AlphaFold3 workflow integrating interface-recurrence filtering, orthogonal docking, and peptide-binding site inference to define a tractable binding region. This approach identified a filamin A docking sequence spanning R2520-H2528, which was optimized to RLVSNHSLH and rendered cell-permeant by N-terminal polyarginine tagging. In ventricular cardiomyocytes, the peptide reduced PDE4A-filamin A proximity and selectively attenuated β-adrenergic cAMP signaling in cytosolic and sarcolemmal compartments, measured by FRET biosensors. This work establishes a potential transferable strategy for translating predicted scaffolded PPI nanointerfaces into functional disruptor peptides and highlights compartmentalized signaling complexes as actionable targets for selective cellular modulation.
Neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorders (NMOSDs) comprise rare autoimmune diseases of the CNS in which disabilities accrue with relapses. The ability to predict and prevent relapses could dramatically improve clinical outcomes, potentially reducing morbidity and quality-of-life declines. This proteomic study aimed to identify individual and composite candidate serum biomarkers predictive of NMOSD relapse.Patients with NMOSD previously enrolled in the Collaborative International Research in Clinical and Longitudinal Experience Study (CIRCLES) cohort were selected based on documented relapses simultaneous with retrievable banked cryopreserved serum. Longitudinal serum proteomic profiles were characterized using high-resolution mass spectrometry. We used linear models with logistic regression, Cox proportional hazards models with fixed-time intervals, and time-dependent Cox proportional hazards models to analyze individual proteins and proteomic profiles for their association with future relapses factoring demographics, clinical phenotype/course, and treatments.We characterized a total of 305 longitudinally collected serum samples (N = 126), using high-resolution mass spectrometry, and identified 265 proteins overall. There was a 10-protein signature with the highest average association coefficient consistently across at least 4 of the 6 modeling analyses, including factor XI, surfactant protein B, C1RL, filamin A, cholesteryl ester transfer protein, cathelicidin antimicrobial peptide, C4A, transferrin receptor, for consistency immunoglobulin kappa constant, and serum amyloid A2 protein. This signature could significantly stratify patients with higher vs lower risk of subsequent relapse. These proteins differed in their increasing or decreasing abundance trajectories in advance of relapse. Most belong to pathways plausibly related to the immunopathology of NMOSD.Collectively, these findings provide a basis for novel biomarker development to predict NMOSD relapses sufficiently in advance to enable preventive treatment.
Myxomatous mitral valve disease (MMVD) is a progressive cardiac disease characterized by extracellular matrix remodeling, leaflet thickening, and proteoglycan accumulation. Despite its significant contribution to cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, the underlying pathophysiological mechanisms involved in its development and progression remain unclear. Recent investigations have revealed a genetic component to the disease, such as mutations in the FLNA gene, and suggested potential involvement of immune cells in the pathogenesis of MMVD. In this study, we investigated the role of macrophages in MMVD using a large collection of human non-syndromic MMVD samples and a unique animal model, the Filamin-A knock-in (KI) rat.Transciptomic analysis of 78 human non-syndromic MMVD samples revealed significant enrichment of pathways associated with immune activation and macrophage recruitment. Comparative analyses between human and rat MMVD identified shared molecular signatures, validating the Filamin-A KI rat model for studying human MMVD pathophysiology. Analyses of wild-type (WT) and KI rat MVs demontrated a gradual activation of valvular cells from birth, which translated into phenotypic MV remodeling by postnatal day 7. These early events were associated with the development of a pro-inflammatory valvular environment, despite no initial increase in myeloid cells. The subsequent accumulation of macrophages in the already remodeled MV leaflets indicated the initiation of an active recruitment process, likely involved in the progression of non-syndromic MMVD.This study highlights the central role of chemotaxis and macrophage recruitment and activation in the pathophysiological processes leading to non-syndromic MMVD. Macrophage involvement emerges as a hallmark of non-syndromic MMVD, a disease previously described as non-inflammatory, and opens new avenues to identify potential therapeutic targets to mitigate disease progression.© The Author(s) 2026. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology. All rights reserved. For commercial re-use, please contact reprints@oup.com for reprints and translation rights for reprints. All other permissions can be obtained through our RightsLink service via the Permissions link on the article page on our site—for further information please contact journals.permissions@oup.com.
Autoimmune thyroiditis (AIT) is characterized by extensive lymphocytic infiltration and progressive destruction of thyroid follicular cells (TFCs), yet the molecular mechanisms underlying persistent thyroid injury remain poorly defined. Here, methyltransferase-like 3 (METTL3) mediated N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification is identified as a central driver of thyroid inflammation. METTL3 expression and m6A levels were markedly increased in TFCs from AIT patients and EAT mice, and are positively associated with immune inflammation scores. Genetic or pharmacological inhibition of METTL3 suppressed the KDR (kinase insert domain receptor, also known as vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2, VEGFR2)/VEGFA signaling loop, reduced inflammatory cytokine release and lymphocyte infiltration, restored Th17/Treg homeostasis, and alleviated thyroid injury. Mechanistically, ROS promoted METTL3 transcription through inhibition of SIRT1-dependent epigenetic repression, while METTL3-mediated m6A modification stabilized KDR mRNA in a YTHDC2-dependent manner. In turn, activated KDR established an autocrine-paracrine KDR/VEGFA amplification circuit that sustained inflammatory signaling. Together, these findings uncover the METTL3-KDR axis as a critical epitranscriptomic mechanism driving chronic thyroid inflammation and nominate it as a promising therapeutic target for AIT.© 2026 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
Osteoporosis is a systemic skeletal disease associated with reduced bone density and impaired bone quality, which leading to a greater risk of fracture. The pathogenesis of osteoporosis is closely associated with compromised osteogenic differentiation of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs). The actin-cytoskeleton associated protein PALLADIN has been reported to play a central role in the remodeling of the actin-cytoskeleton. However, no studies to date have established whether PALLADIN can influence osteogenic differentiation of BMSCs or the onset of osteoporosis. Here, PALLADIN knockdown was observed to reduce osteogenic differentiation of BMSCs, confirming the involvement of the gene in osteoporosis. Knockdown also altered the cytoskeletal organization and reduced Ras homolog family member A (RhoA) activity to inhibit osteogenic differentiation. The results of the in vivo experiments showed that overexpression of Palladin reversed bone loss and marrow adipose tissue (MAT) accumulation in OVX mice, while Palladin knockdown increased both bone loss and MAT accumulation in OVX mice. Together, these results suggest a model in which Palladin protects against bone loss induced by OVX through the promotion of BMSCs osteogenesis. In human osteoporotic BMSCs, PALLADIN expression is significantly downregulated, correlating with disease status. While functional validation in primary human osteoporotic BMSCs remains to be performed, these preclinical findings establish Palladin as a novel regulator of BMSCs osteogenic differentiation and provide a foundation for future efforts to characterize the pathogenesis of osteoporosis and identify new therapeutic targets.© 2026. The Author(s).
This study investigated the protective effects and underlying mechanisms of Wuyou Decoction(WYD) against hippocampal neuronal apoptosis and mitochondrial damage in a rat model of chronic sleep deprivation(CSD). Fifty male Sprague-Dawley(SD) rats were randomly assigned to the following groups: normal, model, and WYD low-, medium-, and high-dose groups(WYD-L, WYD-M, WYD-H), respectively. Except the normal group, CSD was induced in other groups using the horizontal platform sleep deprivation method, which included 7 days of adaptive modeling followed by 21 days of formal modeling. Intragastric administration of WYD was initiated concurrently with the formal modeling phase and maintained for 28 days. Learning and memory abilities were assessed using the Morris water maze test. The morphological and quantitative changes of hippocampal neurons were evaluated by hematoxylin-eosin(HE) staining, Nissl staining, and neuron-specific nuclear protein(NeuN) immunohistochemistry. Mitochondrial ultrastructure was examined by transmission electron microscopy, and adenosine triphosphate(ATP) content in the hippocampus was measured with a commercial assay kit. Western blot was employed to detect apoptosis-related proteins B-cell lymphoma 2(Bcl-2), Bcl-2-associated X protein(Bax), caspase-3, cleaved caspase-3, cytochrome C(Cyt C), as well as Ras homolog family member A(RhoA), Rho-associated protein kinase 1(ROCK1), dynamin-related protein 1(Drp1), and p-Drp1(Ser616) in hippocampal tissues. Molecular docking was used to evaluate the interactions between active components of WYD and pathway-related proteins. The results revealed that, compared to the normal group, the model group showed significant cognitive impairment, neuronal damage, reduced neuronal count, and abnormal mitochondrial structure, including disrupted cristae and myelin-like figures. The ATP content decreased, along with increased Cyt C release, upregulation of Bax and cleaved caspase-3/caspase-3, downregulation of Bcl-2, and activation of the RhoA/ROCK1/Drp1 signaling pathway. In contrast, the WYD-M group exhibited improved cognitive performance, restored neuronal morphology and quantity, and alleviated mitochondrial damage, while the ATP levels also increased. Furthermore, WYD-M treatment significantly suppressed Cyt C release, downregulated Bax and cleaved caspase-3/caspase-3 expression, upregulated Bcl-2, and effectively inhibited the activation of the RhoA/ROCK1/Drp1 signaling pathway. Molecular docking indicated that paeoniflorin and ferulic acid, the primary active components of WYD, had strong binding affinities with the key proteins in the RhoA/ROCK1/Drp1 signaling pathway, with binding energies all below-5 kcal·mol~(-1). In conclusion, WYD may protect mitochondrial integrity, reduce Cyt C release, inhibit hippocampal neuronal apoptosis, and ultimately improve cognitive function in CSD model rats potentially by suppressing the RhoA/ROCK1/Drp1 signaling pathway.
Tooth agenesis is a genetically heterogeneous developmental anomaly in which disturbances of morphogen signaling, cytoskeletal organization, and mineralization converge during odontogenesis. Building on a previously published clinical and exome study of two Lebanese families with familial nonsyndromic tooth agenesis that identified rare segregating missense variants in trio Rho guanine nucleotide exchange factor (TRIO) and calcium voltage-gated channel auxiliary subunit alpha2delta 2 (CACNA2D2), this work examines how these genes may participate in a shared mechanistic axis during human tooth development.We performed a secondary, exclusively in silico mechanistic analysis of the originally reported variants, TRIO c.8312C>T (p.Ser2771Leu) and CACNA2D2 c.284G>A (p.Arg95His), without enrolling new participants or generating additional sequencing or clinical data. Protein domain organization was annotated from curated resources, residue-level and local-window conservation were quantified across vertebrate orthologs, and the structural context of each substituted residue was inspected using available experimental templates and full-length AlphaFold models from the AlphaFold Protein Structure Database. Population allele frequencies and clinical annotations were re-evaluated in large reference datasets, and high-confidence protein-protein interaction networks centered on TRIO, ras homolog family member A (RHOA), guanine nucleotide binding protein subunit beta 1 (GNB1), and CACNA2D2 were constructed to assess whether these genes form a common odontogenesis-relevant signaling landscape.Both substitutions localize to structured and functionally annotated regions: CACNA2D2 Arg95 lies in the extracellular N-terminal segment immediately upstream of the von Willebrand factor type A (VWA) domain, and TRIO Ser2771 lies within an immunoglobulin I-set domain adjacent to a C-terminal kinase-like region. In both cases, the affected residue is highly conserved across mammalian orthologs and falls within a locally conserved window. TRIO p.Ser2771Leu remains absent from population reference datasets, whereas CACNA2D2 p.Arg95His (reference SNP identifier, rs149979955) is a very rare allele with a non-dental Clinical Variants (ClinVar) annotation; both variants receive predominantly deleterious predictions. Structural inspection suggests possible effects on local packing, electrostatics, or interaction interfaces. Network analysis places TRIO, RHOA, GNB1, and CACNA2D2 along a high-confidence path enriched for cytoskeletal regulation, vesicle trafficking, calcium signaling, and mineralization, consistent with an ion channel-Rho guanosine triphosphatase (GTPase) coupling model in odontogenesis.This structural and network analysis suggests that the reported TRIO and CACNA2D2 variants may contribute to a testable TRIO-RHOA-GNB1-CACNA2D2 axis in human tooth development. The evidence remains hypothesis-generating and does not establish pathogenicity or causality, but it provides a coherent framework for targeted functional studies in dental and craniofacial models.Copyright © 2026, Nabbout et al.
Objective To investigate the regulatory role of Ras homolog family member A (RhoA) in the inflammatory response and migration of RAW264.7 macrophages following Listeria monocytogenes (Lm) infection. Methods RAW264.7 cells were transfected with small interfering RNA (si-RhoA) to knock down RhoA expression, followed by Lm infection at a multiplicity of infection (MOI) of 10 for 48 hours. Phagocytosis and Transwell assays were conducted to evaluate the bacterial engulfment and migratory capacities of RAW264.7 cells, respectively. The mRNA levels of interleukin 1β (IL-1β), IL-6, tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α), and IL-10 were quantified using quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR). The secretion of these cytokines in the cell supernatants was measured by ELISA. Western blot was performed to assess the protein expression of ROCK1 and ROCK2. Results Knockdown of RhoA reduced the migration ability of RAW264.7 cells infected with Lm, suppresses the expression of IL-1β and IL-6 at both mRNA and protein levels, and had no significant effect on TNF-α or IL-10 expression and pahagocytosis. Additionally, ROCK2 protein expression was significantly decreased, while ROCK1 protein expression remained unchanged. Conclusion Knockdown of RhoA inhibits the inflammatory response and migratory capacity of Lm-infected RAW264.7 cells by blocking the ROCK2 signaling pathway, and targeting the RhoA/ROCK2 signaling pathway may potentially constitute a novel strategy against Lm infection.
As the innermost lining of blood vessels, endothelial cells regulate barrier function, maintain vascular tone, and limit inflammation for vessel health. Involved in various fundamental endothelial processes, RhoA (Ras homolog family member A)/ROCK (Rho-associated coiled-coil containing protein kinase) signaling has been identified as a major contributor to age-associated hypertension and vascular disease; RhoA/ROCK hyperactivation promotes vessel permeability and impairs nitric oxide (NO) production. Recent studies identify Sun1 (Sad1 and UNC84 [protein UNC-84 homolog A] domain-containing protein 1), a key component of the linker of nucleoskeleton and cytoskeleton complex, as a major repressor of RhoA/ROCK activity. Our latest studies identify endothelial loss of Nup93 (nucleoporin93), a component of the nuclear pore complex, as a hallmark of vascular aging. Insinuating a role for nuclear envelope components in vessel homeostasis, the role of Nup93 in RhoA/ROCK signal regulation, however, remains entirely unknown.Targeted Nup93 knockdown approaches were used in primary human endothelial cells to assess the role of Nup93 in endothelial RhoA/ROCK signaling and downstream readouts, including endothelial barrier function, cellular stiffness, and eNOS (endothelial NO synthase) function. Rescue studies include the use of pharmacological ROCK inhibitors and lentiviral-mediated Sun1 restoration methods. We additionally measure barrier function and vessel reactivity in our novel inducible endothelial-specific Nup93 mouse model.Targeted loss of endothelial Nup93 significantly increases RhoA/ROCK activity for consequent endothelial permeability and decreased NO bioavailability both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, we find that loss of Nup93 drastically reduces endothelial Sun1 levels for a concomitant increase in RhoA activity. Indeed, restoring Sun1 protein levels in Nup93-deficient endothelial cells mitigates RhoA activity, thereby rescuing both endothelial barrier function and eNOS expression.Taken together, we demonstrate endothelial Nup93 as a novel regulator of vascular permeability and NO-dependent vessel reactivity, contributing to the growing importance of nuclear membrane components in endothelial cell and vascular biology.
The recent Mayo Clinic consensus proposed a target antigen-based diagnostic pathway for membranous nephropathy (MN), recommending testing for neural epidermal growth factor-like 1 (NELL1) following a negative phospholipase A2 receptor (PLA2R) result. This study aimed to optimize this pathway in a real-world Chinese cohort enriched for diagnostic complexity.This dual-center retrospective study included 816 patients with PLA2R staining on renal biopsy (2008-2023). PLA2R-negative patients with atypical features and available tissue underwent comprehensive testing for thrombospondin type-1 domain-containing 7A (THSD7A), NELL1, exostosin1/2 (EXT1/2), semaphorin 3B (SEMA3B), and protocadherin 7 (PCDH7). Testing efficiency was simulated in a subcohort comprising all PLA2R-positive patients and PLA2R-negative patients with complete antigen data.PLA2R positivity was 73.90%. Among PLA2R-negative patients (n = 159 with complete data), EXT1/2 (9.43%), and NELL1 (7.55%) were the most prevalent non-PLA2R antigens, with near-complete mutual exclusivity. Two sequential strategies (Mayo order vs. our cohort-derived order) achieved identical final cumulative diagnostic yield (83.33%). Most 7-antigen-negative patients (64.29%) had secondary MN, predominantly lupus nephritis (LN).In Chinese PLA2R-negative patients with atypical features, EXT1/2 and NELL1 are the predominant antigens. Sequential testing by local prevalence (PLA2R → EXT1/2 → NELL1) is resource-efficient, whereas concurrent testing offers time savings. This practical framework aids diagnostic optimization, especially for patients with an autoimmune phenotype.© 2026 The Author(s).
No abstract found for PubMed ID 42232366
What is this summary about? This paper describes the results of a clinical trial called HORNBILL that were published in a scientific journal called Ophthalmology Science. In HORNBILL, researchers looked at a new drug called BI 764524 in the treatment of diabetic macular ischemia (DMI). DMI is a condition that affects people living with diabetes. For people living with DMI, there is reduced blood flow in the center of the retina (an area at the back of the eye that changes light into signals to allow people to see). Reduced blood flow means that the retina does not function correctly and vision can get worse. There are no available treatments for people with DMI, so it is important that research is carried out to find possible new drugs. BI 764524 was injected into the eyes of 33 people with DMI. This paper describes whether there were any safety-related events that might stop BI 764524 being tested in more trials and if it helped people in the trial.© The Author(s) 2026.
Dendritic cells (DCs) can activate T cells to trigger sustained antitumor immune responses, a process in which the continuous migration of antigen-loaded DCs from the tumor microenvironment to tumor-draining lymph nodes is critical. DCs have evolved a complex and dynamic regulatory network to mediate their migration to specific locations, with multiple transporters including amino acid transporters reported to participate in this process. Slc1a2 is highly expressed in the nervous system, where it mediates the clearance of extracellular glutamate, primarily in astrocytes; however, its role in the immune system remains unclear. In this study, we showed that activated DCs upregulated Slc1a2 to boost glutamate uptake, which in turn promoted DC functionality and antitumor vaccine potency. Furthermore, glutamate signaling induced Sema3A, which elevated small GTPase signaling pathways (e.g., RhoA/Rac1/Cdc42) and drove dynamic cytoskeletal remodeling, thereby providing the necessary molecular machinery for DC migration during antitumor immunity in vivo. We first demonstrated that Slc1a2-mediated glutamate metabolism functioned as a metabolic checkpoint for DC migration and antigen-specific immunity in vivo, with the Sema3A/small GTPase axis serving as the core mechanism linking glutamate signaling to cytoskeletal reorganization.© The author(s).
Sensory innervation has emerged as a crucial regulator of skeletal homeostasis and regeneration. Growing evidence indicates that disruption of sensory nerves is associated with excessive inflammation and impaired tissue healing. However, the underlying mechanisms by which neuronal signaling regulates the immune microenvironment to orchestrate bone repair remain unclear. In this study, we investigated the role of semaphorin 3A (Sema3A), secreted by sensory nerves, in macrophage immunomodulation during bone healing. Knockdown of Sema3A in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) aggravated local inflammation and impaired new bone formation in femoral defects in mice, whereas exogenous Sema3A supplementation attenuated the inflammatory milieu and restored regenerative capacity. In vitro, Sema3A deficiency in DRG neurons exacerbated M1 polarization and pro-inflammatory cytokine production, while exogenous Sema3A treatment facilitated macrophage polarization toward the M2 reparative phenotype. Mechanistically, macrophage phenotypic transition from M1 to M2 induced by Sema3A was associated with suppression of the NOD-like receptor family pyrin domain containing 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome signaling pathway. Blocking NLRP3 inflammasome activation could further mitigate macrophage-mediated inflammatory response and subsequently potentiate osteogenic potential. Collectively, these findings identify sensory nerve-derived Sema3A as a key mediator of macrophage immunomodulation that shapes a pro-regenerative microenvironment, thereby promoting bone healing. Our work provides novel insights into the neuro-immune-bone regulatory axis and may lead to promising therapeutic strategies for enhancing bone regeneration.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Endometriosis progression is driven by oxidative stress and excessive angiogenesis within an inflammatory microenvironment. To overcome these challenges, we designed ROS/pH dual-responsive Alpelisib-loaded nanoparticles (Alp@TAT-AT7-NPs) functionalized with an anti-NRP1 peptide for targeted therapy. The nanoparticles exhibited superior stability, responsive drug release, and selective internalization by NRP1-overexpressing endothelial cells. In vitro results showed efficient inhibition of NRP1 and downstream PI3K/AKT signaling, along with decreased reactive oxygen species (ROS) and enhanced antioxidant enzyme activities. In an endometriosis rat model, treatment with Alp@TAT-AT7-NPs significantly reduced ectopic lesion burden and angiogenic markers (VEGF, CD34), while suppressing systemic inflammation and oxidative injury indicators such as IL-6, TNF-α, and MDA. Fluorescence imaging confirmed preferential accumulation of nanoparticles in CD31⁺ vascular regions. Mechanistic studies demonstrated that modulation of the Sema3A-NRP1-PI3K/AKT signaling axis restored redox homeostasis and inhibited pathological angiogenesis. These findings identify Alp@TAT-AT7-NPs as a synergistic nanoplatform that integrates microenvironment responsiveness with NRP1-targeted intervention, providing a promising therapeutic strategy for endometriosis.© 2026. The Author(s).
Individuals with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) and related neurodevelopmental conditions, like Phelan-McDermid syndrome (PMDS), exhibit social recognition deficits. Shank3B knockout (KO) mice, a genetic model with relevance to ASD and PMDS, have deficits in social recognition in adulthood, but the developmental mechanisms underlying this dysfunction remain unknown. We found that Shank3B KOs have deficits in short-term social recognition during development that persist into adulthood along with CA2 network aberrations. In CA2, perineuronal nets (PNNs), extracellular matrix structures, support social recognition in adult mice. In developing CA2, we found excessive PNNs in KOs, greater sequestration of the guidance cue semaphorin-3A, and overgrowth of afferents. Reduction of PNN levels restored semaphorin-3A, afferent input to CA2, and social recognition, which persisted into adulthood and partially normalized CA2 network activity. These findings suggest that excess CA2 PNN formation impairs social recognition by disrupting afferent input, effects that are reversible by early life intervention.© 2026. The Author(s).
Semaphorins (SEMAs) comprise a diverse family of membrane-associated proteins whose dysregulation is implicated in various cancers, influencing tumor progression and immune responses. However, the role of SEMAs in colorectal cancer (CRC) remains underexplored. This study demonstrates that Semaphorin 6A (SEMA6A) is downregulated in CRC tissues, with low SEMA6A expression correlating with increased tumor aggressiveness and poor prognosis in CRC patients. Functional assays illustrate that SEMA6A overexpression exerts anti-tumor effects both in vitro and in vivo, while integrated RNA-seq and proteomic analyses identify ISG15 as a key downstream effector negatively regulated by SEMA6A. Mechanistically, SEMA6A inhibits the JAK-STAT3 pathway, leading to decreased ISG15 expression, which in turn abrogates the ISGylation-dependent stabilization of TGF-β1 and promotes its degradation, as confirmed by molecular docking, co-immunoprecipitation, and cycloheximide chase assays. Consequently, in vitro co-culture assays and in vivo experiments reveal that SEMA6A overexpression in tumor cells enhances CD8+ T cell cytotoxicity via blocking the ISG15/TGFβ axis. Bioinformatics analyses indicate that patients with CRC exhibiting high SEMA6A and low ISG15 expression show improved responses to immunotherapy. Importantly, SEMA6A overexpression reshapes the tumor microenvironment, boosts anti-tumor immunity of CD8+ T cells and inhibits immune evasion, thereby potentiating anti-PD-1 immunotherapy in vivo. Collectively, these findings highlight the potential of SEMA6A as a dual therapeutic strategy in CRC: inhibiting cancer progression while enhancing anti-tumor immunity by targeting the ISG15/TGF-β1 axis. Thus, SEMA6A represents both a prognostic indicator and a promising target to improve immunotherapy efficacy and enable personalized treatment strategies in CRC.© 2026. The Author(s).
Inhibitory synapse formation is poorly understood compared with excitatory synaptogenesis, in part because the molecular events underlying assembly occur asynchronously and on timescales that have been difficult to resolve. Here, we exploit the ability of Semaphorin 4D (Sema4D) to rapidly and selectively induce GABAergic synapse formation in cultured hippocampal neurons, synchronizing these events to enable direct observation of pre- and postsynaptic protein dynamics by two-channel live imaging. We find that Sema4D promotes a population-wide increase in the mobility of GAD65-containing presynaptic boutons within 20 min of treatment while postsynaptic gephyrin scaffolds are mobilized only locally in a proximity-dependent manner, consistent with a presynapse-first model of inhibitory synapse assembly. Sema4D also drives recruitment of GABAARγ2 subunits to receptor-poor postsynaptic gephyrin scaffolds within 10 min of treatment, prior to detectable changes in GAD65-gephyrin colocalization, suggesting that postsynaptic scaffolds are primed for receptor capture before alignment with a presynaptic partner. Finally, we observed new colocalization events between established gephyrin and GABAAR protein assemblies, suggesting that clustering of either the gephyrin scaffold or GABAARs alone is sufficient to nucleate assembly of the postsynaptic specialization. Together, these results reveal a temporally ordered, spatially constrained mechanism by which Sema4D coordinates pre- and postsynaptic protein dynamics to assemble inhibitory synapses on the timescale of minutes.Copyright © 2026 Pranske and Paradis.
The maintenance of a healthy epithelial-endothelial juxtaposition requires crosstalk within glomerular cellular niches. Here, we sought to understand the spatially anchored regulation and transition of endothelial and mesangial cells from health to injury in DKD.From 132 human kidney samples, an integrated multiomics approach was leveraged to identify cellular niches, cell-cell communication, cell injury trajectories, and regulatory transcription factor networks in glomerular capillary endothelial (EC-GC) and mesangial cells. Data were culled from single nucleus RNA, ATAC-sequencing and four orthogonal spatial transcriptomic technologies for correlation with histopathological and clinical trial data.We identified a cellular niche in diabetic glomeruli enriched in a proliferative endothelial cell subtype (prEC) and altered vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs). Cellular communication within this niche maintained pro-angiogenic signaling with loss of anti-angiogenic factors. We identified a transcription factor network of MEF2C, MEF2A, and TRPS1 which regulated SEMA6A and PLXNA2, a receptor-ligand pair opposing angiogenesis. In silico knockout of the transcription factor network accelerated the transition from healthy EC-GCs toward a degenerative injured endothelial phenotype, with concomitant disruption of EC-GC and prEC expression patterns. Glomeruli enriched in the prEC niche had histologic evidence of neovascularization. MEF2C activity was increased in diabetic glomeruli with nodular mesangial sclerosis. The gene regulatory network (GRN) of MEF2C was dysregulated in EC-GCs of patients with DKD, but sodium glucose transporter-2 inhibitor (SGLT2i) treatment reversed the MEF2C GRN effects of DKD.The MEF2C, MEF2A, and TRPS1 transcription factor network carefully balances the fate of the EC-GC in DKD. When the transcription factor network is "on" or over-expressed in DKD, EC-GCs may progress to a prEC state, while transcription factor suppression leads to cell death. SGLT2i therapy may restore the balance of MEF2C activity.Copyright © 2026 International Society of Nephrology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Semaphorin 4D (Sema4D)/(CD100) expression is upregulated in different human cancers, and it is associated with poor prognosis; however, its prognostic value in B-acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) remains unclear. We aimed to study the prognostic value of Sema4D expression to predict response to induction therapy in pediatric patients with B-ALL. Sixty newly diagnosed pediatric patients with B-ALL were enrolled, and their peripheral mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were isolated for assessment of Sema4D expression by multiparametric flow cytometry before initiating therapy. Then, we followed up with the patients for their response to induction therapy. Sema4D expression is significantly higher in non-responders to induction therapy than in responders. Using the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve, Sema4D expression > 18% significantly identifies patients at risk for induction failure. Logistic regression analyses confirmed that Sema4D expression is significantly associated with poor response to induction therapy. PBMCs' Sema4D expression can be considered a potential marker for predicting the response to induction therapy in pediatric patients with B-ALL. So, it may serve to optimize treatment decisions for those patients.• Semaphorin 4D (Sema4D)/(CD100) expression is upregulated in different human cancers, and it is associated with poor prognosis. • However, its prognostic value in B-acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) in pediatrics remains unclear.• We aimed to study the prognostic value of Sema4D expression to predict response to induction therapy in pediatric patients with B-ALL. • Sema4D expression can be considered a potential marker for predicting the response to induction therapy in pediatric patients with B-ALL. So, it may serve to optimize treatment decisions for those patients.© 2026. The Author(s).
BACKGROUND: Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a highly aggressive hematologic malignancy. Currently, targeted therapy represents a transformative approach in the treatment of this disease. Semaphorin 4A (SEMA4A) is a member of the semaphorin family of soluble and transmembrane proteins. Recent evidence further identifies it as a novel immunotherapeutic target in myeloma. However, its functional significance in AML remains elusive. OBJECTIVE: This study investigates the expression of SEMA4A in AML and its potential pathogenic mechanisms. METHODS: Initially, we performed database analysis to evaluate SEMA4A expression. To investigate its biological function, SEMA4A was silenced in AML cells via shRNA, and RT-qPCR and Western blot confirmed its knockdown. Apoptosis, differentiation, and cell cycle were assessed by flow cytometry. Combination drug assays further validated a role of SEMA4A in mediating chemoresistance. In vivo, the growth of leukemic cells and mouse survival were assessed through xenotransplantation models. RNA sequencing ultimately uncovered the underlying mechanisms driving these phenotypes. RESULTS: SEMA4A deletion in AML cells reduced proliferative and clonogenic capacity. We observed increased apoptosis, enhanced differentiation, and G0/G1 cell cycle arrest. Furthermore, SEMA4A deletion in vivo prolonged survival. Mechanistically, RNA-seq analysis revealed significant activation of apoptotic pathways following SEMA4A loss. Notably, SEMA4A knockdown led to a marked reduction in BCL-2 expression and upregulation of the BCL-2 family members BMF and BBC3. SEMA4A deficiency also sensitized AML cells to chemotherapy, lowering effective drug doses and inducing extensive apoptosis. CONCLUSION: Our findings revealed the oncogenic role for SEMA4A, suggesting it represents a promising therapeutic target in AML patients.
Breast cancer is a major health issue for women worldwide, with high incidence rates and as one of the primary causes of mortality among women. However, molecular studies related to the development and spread of breast cancer are still not well understood. According to research reports, the Semaphorin 3G (SEMA3G) gene significantly contributes to the growth and dissemination of cancer cells. The aim of this study was to compare the expression of the SEMA3G protein found in healthy breast tissue versus breast cancer patient tissue and to investigate the correlation between SEMA3G protein expression and the spread of breast cancer cells to axillary lymph nodes, as well as other clinical data, using immunohistochemistry. From the study of 88 breast tissue samples, it was found that SEMA3G levels, with an immunohistochemistry (IHC) index > 4, were significantly higher in breast cancer tissue compared to normal breast tissue (P-value < 0.0001, OR (95% CI) = 8.565 to +infinity). Moreover, SEMA3G protein expression (IHC index > 6) was detected at elevated levels in breast cancer tissue that had spread to axillary lymph nodes compared with breast cancer tissue without lymph node metastasis (P-value = 0.038, OR (95% CI) = 4.41 (1.19-13.81)). Additionally, the study found a positive correlation between high SEMA3G protein expression and HER2-positive breast cancer.Higher SEMA3G expression was significantly associated with breast cancer presence, axillary lymph node metastasis, and HER2 positivity, indicating that SEMA3G may play a role in tumor aggressiveness and could serve as a potential marker for disease progression, with potential implications for clinical decision-making in treatment strategies.
Cognitive impairment is a common sequela of ischemic stroke, primarily driven by disrupted synaptic structural plasticity in the hippocampus. Although bone marrow mesenchymal stem cell-derived extracellular vesicles (BMSC-EVs) are known to promote synaptic plasticity, their heterogeneous effects across hippocampal subregions and associated regulatory mechanisms remain unclear. In this study, BMSC-EVs were intravenously administered 24 h post-reperfusion in a rat model of transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (tMCAO), with additional injections on days 3, 5, and 7. Behavioral assessments (mNSS, Morris Water Maze, Y-maze) showed significant improvements in neurological and cognitive functions (P < 0.05). Histological observation and analyses revealed differential synaptic remodeling. The dentate gyrus (DG) exhibited the most pronounced response, including a significant increase in spine density beyond sham levels (P < 0.01), a shift towards mature spine morphologies, and enhanced axonal integrity as indicated by NF200 expression (P < 0.001). The CA3 region showed improved neuronal survival (P < 0.05), dendritic complexity, and elevated expression of Syn and PSD-95 (P < 0.01 and P < 0.001, respectively). In contrast, the CA1 region displayed limited structural recovery, despite moderate yet significant increases in Syn and PSD-95 expression (P < 0.001). Mechanistically, BMSC-EVs restored ischemia-induced downregulation of Semaphorin 3G (Sema3G), Neuropilin-2 (Nrp2), and PlexinA4 (P < 0.05 to P < 0.001), suggesting a correlation between BMSC-EVs treatment and activation of the Sema3G-Nrp2/PlexinA4 signaling pathway, which may facilitate neurovascular interactions crucial for synaptic remodeling. In conclusion, this study demonstrates that BMSC-EVs enhance hippocampal synaptic plasticity in a region-distinct manner, with the DG and CA3 regions showing the most robust response. These effects are associated with synaptic protein regulation and the Sema3G-Nrp2/PlexinA4 axis.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification intricately regulates mRNA transportation, localization, and translation, significantly influencing learning and memory processes. However, the specific role of YT521-B homology (YTH) domain-containing family protein 2 (YTHDF2)-mediated m6A mRNA degradation in learning and memory remains elusive. Utilizing a forebrain-specific conditional knockout mice model, it is discovered that the absence of YTHDF2 impedes the decay of m6A-modified mRNAs, resulting in heightened synaptic transmission in hippocampal neurons and improved hippocampus-dependent learning and memory. Unexpectedly, an increase in activity-dependent protein synthesis is also observed. Reintroduction of YTHDF2 expression or reduction of its downstream target, Semaphorin 4B (SEMA4B), in the hippocampus reverses the enhanced memory in conditional knockout mice, while augmenting YTHDF2 in wild-type mice impairs memory performance. These findings underscore the pivotal role of YTHDF2-mediated mRNA degradation in regulating learning and memory processes.© 2025 The Author(s). Advanced Science published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.
BACKGROUND: Cervical cancer is one of the most common malignancies in women, and its progression is closely associated with hypoxia and tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) polarization in the tumor microenvironment (TME). The dynamic interaction between cancer cells and TAMs in the hypoxic tumor microenvironment is the key to promoting tumor progression. However, the mechanisms underlying this interaction remain unclear. METHODS: Macrophages were exposed to hypoxia, and next-generation sequencing was performed to analyze differentially expressed genes. TCGA data were used to identify the up-regulated genes that were independently associated with patient survival. Multiplex immunofluorescence was employed to identify semaphorin 6B (SEMA6B)-positive TAMs in human cervical cancers, and the correlation between their infiltration and clinicopathological characteristics were analyzed. TCGA, GEO, and TIMER databases were used to assess correlations between SEMA6B expression and patient survival and immune cell infiltration patterns. The SEMA6B expression in macrophages was knocked down by using siRNAs. Cell proliferation and mobility were evaluated in vitro, and flow cytometry, PCR and Western Blotting were conducted to determine the polarization of macrophages. RESULTS: After exposure to hypoxia, 236 genes were up-regulated in macrophages. Among them, SEMA6B exhibited a significant association with poor survival. In addition, abundant CD206 + SEMA6B + TAMs were associated with poor prognosis in cervical cancer patients. Database analysis revealed that SEMA6B expression was positively correlated with the infiltration of M2 macrophages and Tregs and negatively correlated with the infiltration of CD4 + and CD8 + T cells. In vitro, knocking down SEMA6B in macrophages inhibited macrophage M2 polarization and the migration ability of macrophages. Furthermore, after coculture of macrophages with SEMA6B knockdown and cervical cancer cells, the proliferation, migration and invasion of SiHa and HeLa cells was significantly reduced in vitro. CONCLUSIONS: Knocking down SEMA6B may attenuate the progression of cervical cancer through regulating macrophage M2 polarization. The mechanism of action of SEMA6B on the progression of cervical cancer in vivo still needs further research. Targeting SEMA6B may be a potential immunotherapy approach for treating cervical cancer.
Revascularization strategies failed to improve outcome in patients with diabetes with peripheral artery disease (PAD). Histone modifications are key modulators of gene expression and could play a role in angiogenic response. This study investigates the role of chromatin remodelling in modulating angiogenesis in diabetes. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq), and angiogenic assays (cell migration and tube formation) were performed in human aortic endothelial cells (HAECs) exposed to normal glucose (NG, 5 mmol/L) or high glucose (HG, 25 mmol/L) for 48 h. The expression of the histone methyltransferase SETD7 and its chromatin signature at histone 3 on lysine 4 (H3K4me1) were investigated by Western blot and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP). Diabetic mice were treated with the SETD7 inhibitor (R)-PFI-2 or vehicle and underwent hind limb ischemia by femoral artery ligation. The experimental findings were translated into two cohorts of patients with diabetes with PAD. RNA-seq in HG-treated HAECs unveiled SETD7 as the top-ranking transcript. SETD7 upregulation was associated with increased H3K4me1 levels and defective angiogenesis. Both SETD7 depletion and (R)-PFI-2 rescued hyperglycemia-induced impairment of HAECs migration and tube formation, while SETD7 overexpression blunted the angiogenic response. RNA-seq and ChIP assays showed that SETD7-induced H3K4me1 enables the transcription of the angiogenesis inhibitor semaphorin-3G (SEMA3G) by increasing chromatin accessibility to peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ. In diabetic mice with hind limb ischemia, (R)-PFI-2 improved limb perfusion by suppressing SEMA3G. The SETD7/SEMA3G axis was upregulated in patients with diabetes with PAD. Of note, (R)-PFI-2 restored angiogenic properties in endothelial cells collected from patients with diabetes. These findings show that SETD7 is a druggable epigenetic target in diabetic PAD.Hyperglycemia increases SETD7 expression and SETD7-dependent histone 3 on lysine 4, thus leading to an open chromatin and active transcription of the antiangiogenic gene semaphorin-3G (SEMA3G). Gene silencing and selective pharmacological inhibition of SETD7 by (R)-PFI-2 both blunt histone 3 on lysine 4 levels and SEMA3G transcription, thus rescuing hyperglycemia-induced impairment of angiogenic properties. The SETD7 inhibitor (R)-PFI-2 promotes neovascularization and restores limb perfusion in diabetic mice. SETD7/SEMA3G signaling was dysregulated in two different cohorts of patients with diabetes with peripheral arterial disease. Treatment with (R)-PFI-2 in endothelial cells collected from patients with diabetes restores angiogenic properties.© 2025 by the American Diabetes Association.
A comprehensive genome-wide association study (GWAS) has validated the identification of the Plexin-A 4 (PLXNA4) gene as a novel susceptibility factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Nonetheless, the precise role of PLXNA4 gene polymorphisms in the pathophysiology of AD remains to be established. Consequently, this study is aimed at exploring the relationship between PLXNA4 gene polymorphisms and neuroimaging phenotypes intimately linked to AD. This study encompassed 812 subjects with PLXNA4 genotype data, procured from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) database. Employing a tagging strategy, we identified five common variant sites within the PLXNA4 gene and assessed their associations with glucose metabolism, atrophy in AD-related brain regions (including the medial temporal lobe, hippocampus, and parahippocampal gyrus), and intracerebral Aβ deposition. We conducted a comprehensive analysis using a multiple linear regression model, with neuroimaging phenotypes as the dependent variable and PLXNA4 gene polymorphisms as the independent variable while incorporating APOE e4 carrier status, education level, age, and gender as covariates. The subjects were stratified into three groups based on their disease status: the Alzheimer's disease (AD) group, the mild cognitive impairment (MCI) group, and the cognitively normal healthy control (CN) group. Within each group, we examined the associations between PLXNA4 gene polymorphisms and various neuroimaging phenotypes. Our study identified significant associations between the rs156676-A and rs78036292-G alleles and the baseline volumes of the anterior cingulate and middle temporal gyrus, respectively, across the entire population. After 1 year of follow-up, a significant correlation was observed between the rs6467431-G allele and accelerated volumetric atrophy of the parahippocampal gyrus in the overall population. Additionally, at the 2-year follow-up, significant correlations were observed between three PLXNA4 loci (rs1863015, rs6467431, rs67468325) and volumetric atrophy in the anterior cingulate, middle temporal gyrus, and hippocampus across the entire population. Specifically, the rs1863015-G allele notably accelerated atrophy of the left middle temporal gyrus and bilateral hippocampus, whereas the A alleles of rs6467431 and rs67468325 markedly accelerated atrophy specifically in the bilateral hippocampus. Subgroup analysis further validated these findings. Additionally, in the baseline CN group, the rs78036292 allele showed a significant correlation with intracerebral Aβ deposition, while in the 2-year follow-up CN group, rs67468325 was significantly associated with alterations in glucose metabolism rates in the right cingulate gyrus. Our findings indicate that PLXNA4 genotypes may modulate the development of AD through their regulation of intracerebral Aβ deposition. Additionally, PLXNA4 genotypes are strongly associated with AD-related brain atrophy and glucose metabolism, suggesting that they may alter susceptibility to AD by modulating neurodegenerative biomarkers.© 2025. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.
T cells within the tumor microenvironment frequently exhibit dysfunctional characteristics that compromise their ability to elicit both innate and therapeutic-induced immune responses. Regulators of immune dysfunction represent therapeutic targets to activate antitumor immunity. In this study, we identified semaphorin 3G (SEMA3G) as a key regulator of immune responses in cancer. SEMA3G was widely upregulated in diverse human cancers, and its expression was positively correlated with tumor progression. SEMA3G acted as a ligand that inhibited the activation and functionality of T cells. A comprehensive receptor screening approach demonstrated that SEMA3G exhibited a significantly stronger affinity for neuropilin (NRP) 1 than for NRP2. Furthermore, SEMA3G primarily impeded T-cell functions via NRP1. Disruption of SEMA3G using CRISPR/Cas9 technology or blockade with a neutralizing antibody effectively restored the cytotoxicity of CD8+ T cells and inhibited the growth of tumors in vivo. This research underscores the role of SEMA3G in T-cell dysfunction within tumors and proposes targeting SEMA3G as a cancer immunotherapeutic strategy. Significance: SEMA3G binding to NRP1 suppresses cytotoxic T-cell activity to induce an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment, positioning SEMA3G as a promising therapeutic target for improving cancer immunotherapy.©2024 American Association for Cancer Research.
Monitoring microglial activation mediators remains challenging in neurodegeneration. Few imaging studies track amyloid-β (Aβ)-linked microglial dynamics across a wide field of view with high spatiotemporal resolution. Leveraging the triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (TREM2), a pivotal Alzheimer's disease (AD) biomarker that enhances Aβ clearance while suppressing neuroinflammation, we developed a dual-modal probe, TREM2-ICG, by conjugating a TREM2-specific antibody with indocyanine green (ICG), an FDA-approved dye, for robust in vivo photoacoustic and near-infrared-II (NIR-II) fluorescence imaging. Multi-wavelength photoacoustic microscopy imaged AD pathology at 532 nm (hemoglobin, vasculature), 559 nm (Aβ probe AOI987), and 780 nm (TREM2-ICG for peri‑plaque microglia). Time-resolved NIR-II imaging (30 frames/sec) tracked Aβ-oligomer-induced microglial displacement at ∼50 µm resolution, showing a rapid chemotaxis phenomenon. Immunofluorescence-verified TREM2-microglia plaque engagement demonstrates AD pathogenesis. Overall, our multiscale photoacoustic-fluorescence imaging resolved cortex-wide Aβ-microglial interactions, combining wide-field, high-speed, and deep-penetration to overcome confocal depth and two-photon field of view limits. This enabled in vivo tracking of microglial responses to Aβ, revealing potential for investigating AD-specific mechanisms.© 2026 The Authors.
Chronic inflammation is a key driver of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. Notably, anti-inflammatory therapies have demonstrated efficacy in reducing cardiac events. We previously reported that TREM2 (triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2) promotes foam cell formation in atherosclerosis. Elevated levels of soluble TREM2 (sTREM2) have been observed in the plasma of patients with atherosclerosis. This study sought to investigate the pathological role of sTREM2 in the progression of atherosclerosis, elucidate its underlying mechanistic pathways, and propose potential targeted therapeutic interventions.Plasma sTREM2 levels were measured in patients with carotid atherosclerosis and in apolipoprotein E-deficient (Apoe-/-) mice. To study the functional role of sTREM2, we administered recombinant sTREM2 to Apoe-/- mice and used macrophage-specific Hsp90ab1 knockout mice (Hsp90ab1Mac-KO). Mechanistic pathways were investigated using immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry, and surface plasmon resonance imaging was used to identify sTREM2 antagonists.Plasma sTREM2 levels correlated with atherosclerotic burden in both humans and mice. Exogenous sTREM2 administration exacerbated plaque progression in Apoe-/- mice, an effect abolished in Hsp90ab1Mac-KO mice. Mechanistically, sTREM2 binds to HSP90β (heat shock protein 90 beta), enhancing its interaction with the IKKs (IκB kinase complex), thereby activating the IκBα/NF-κB P65 pathway. This activation potentiates monocyte adhesion and chemotaxis and enhances macrophage inflammatory activation signatures in atherosclerotic lesions-effects that were reversed on myeloid-specific Hsp90ab1 deletion. Additionally, we identified 3-bromopyruvate as a small-molecule antagonist that selectively disrupts the sTREM2/HSP90β interaction and attenuates atherosclerosis.sTREM2 promotes proatherogenic myeloid recruitment and macrophage inflammatory activation via HSP90β-dependent NF-κB activation. Genetic and pharmacological approaches establish the sTREM2/HSP90β axis as a druggable target, with 3-bromopyruvate demonstrating translational potential for atherosclerosis therapy.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42500791 is a review article
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a prevalent degenerative joint disease with limited diagnostic biomarkers. Triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (TREM2) is a key regulator of inflammation and bone metabolism, but its role in OA remains unclear.Plasma and synovial fluid samples were collected from patients with OA and patients with joint trauma serving as controls. Levels of TREM2 and IL-6 were measured using RT-qPCR and ELISA. Correlation analyses were conducted to assess relationships among TREM2, IL-6, and clinical parameters. The diagnostic value of TREM2 was evaluated via receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis. Additionally, the role and regulatory mechanism of TREM2 were investigated in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced chondrocytes.TREM2 levels were significantly elevated in both plasma and synovial fluid of patients with OA and showed positive correlations with IL-6, Kellgren-Lawrence score and body mass index (BMI). ROC analysis revealed AUCs of 0.880 for plasma TREM2 and 0.869 for synovial fluid TREM2, with superior performance compared to IL-6 in the same cohort. Multivariate logistic regression confirmed that TREM2 remained independently associated with OA after adjusting for confounders (OR = 28.29, P = 0.006). In vitro, LPS treatment upregulated TREM2 expression in chondrocytes, which was associated with changes in cell proliferation, apoptosis, inflammatory cytokine release and oxidative stress, with preliminary evidence suggesting involvement of the NLRP3-mediated pyroptosis-associated pathway.Elevated TREM2 in plasma and synovial fluid represents a promising exploratory biomarker for OA. In vitro findings suggest that TREM2 may modulate chondrocyte functions in association with NLRP3 inflammasome-associated molecular pathways.© 2026. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to International League of Associations for Rheumatology (ILAR).
Skipped: PubMed ID 42488212 is a review article
Porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV) is one of the important pathogens influencing global swine industry. PRRSV infection promotes the secretion and production of soluble triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (sTREM2) in plasma. Whether sTREM2 regulated PRRSV replication remains unknown. In this study, we expressed and purified sTREM2 exogenously, and found that sTREM2 restrained PRRSV replication in vitro. In terms of mechanism, sTREM2 could interact with PRRSV envelope protein GP2a, wherein S112/S116/T120 amino acid sites in sTREM2 were essential for their binding. The interaction between sTREM2 and PRRSV GP2a interfered PRRSV binding stage, thus inhibiting PRRSV replication. In addition, sTREM2 promoted the activation of NF-ĸB signaling pathway and elevated the expression of proinflammatory cytokines and type I interferons, ultimately suppressing PRRSV replication. Our study demonstrated that sTREM2 possessed strong inhibitory effects against PRRSV and had the potential value for clinical application.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a multifactorial neurodegenerative disorder associated with amyloid aggregation, tau pathology, and neuroinflammation. In this study, an integrated computational workflow combining ADMET prediction, PASS-based activity screening, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations was employed to evaluate the interactions of oleuropein with five AD-related protein targets, including β-amyloid, tau, apolipoprotein E4 (ApoE4), triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (TREM2), and complement protein C1q. ADMET and PASS analyses predicted pharmacokinetic properties and potential biological activities associated with neurodegenerative disease-related pathways. Docking analysis predicted favorable binding affinities across the investigated targets, with the strongest predicted interaction observed for the C1q protein (-7.5 kcal/mol). Molecular dynamics (MD) trajectory analyses, including root-mean-square deviation (RMSD), root-mean-square fluctuation (RMSF), radius of gyration (Rg), dynamic cross-correlation matrix (DCCM), principal component analysis (PCA), and distance-based metrics, were used to evaluate the dynamic behavior of the protein-ligand complexes during the simulations. The computational analyses suggested relatively stable interactions for tau, C1q, and TREM2 complexes, whereas β-amyloid and ApoE4 exhibited comparatively higher conformational variability during portions of the simulations. These findings provide a preliminary computational assessment of oleuropein interactions with AD-related proteins and may support future experimental studies investigating its potential biological relevance in neurodegenerative disease models.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42458498 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 42558631 is a review article
Rising ocean temperatures due to global warming pose severe threats to marine organism survival. Membrane proteins perform important biological functions and serve as sensitive environmental stress sensors. However, the characterization of membrane protein content in response to temperature adaptation remains poorly understood in marine organisms. Here, we performed reciprocal transplantation experiments between the northern/cold and southern/warm natural habitats of two allopatric but closely related oyster species, Crassostrea gigas and Crassostrea angulata. Comparative membrane proteomics combined with transcriptomic analysis revealed ABC transporters, Notch signaling, biosynthesis of unsaturated fatty acids, and aquaporins as key molecular components of temperature adaptation in oysters. ABC transporters and key endoplasmic reticulum enzymes for unsaturated fatty acid synthesis (SCD, FADS2, and ELOVL4) exhibited consistently higher protein abundance in northern environments, indicating their involvement in cold adaptation. The Notch signaling pathway may serve as a crucial mechanism for sensing temperature fluctuations and coordinating regulation of antioxidant defense and apoptosis. Additionally, we identified that aquaporins function as both key heat- and cold-adapted proteins, suggesting their crucial role in temperature fluctuation responses. A nonsynonymous mutation identified in the AQUAPORIN-8 coding region may modulate tetrameric water channel formation, thereby altering transport efficiency and potentially contributing to differential temperature tolerance between the two oyster species. This study is the first to characterize dynamic changes of membrane protein in oysters, which reveals its critical role in ambient temperature adaptation and provides new insights into predicting the adaptability of marine organisms to future climate changes.
Virus infection requires coordinated activation of pathogen-sensing, innate immune, and cellular stress response pathways to mount an effective antiviral defense. Recognition of nucleic acid pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) by pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) initiates signaling cascades that drive the production of type I interferons (IFNs) and proinflammatory cytokines. These responses are often accompanied by the activation of integrated stress response pathways that help optimize host defense. Cytosolic double-stranded dsDNA, generated during viral infection or released from damaged mitochondria, is sensed by cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS), which generates 2'3'-cGAMP to activate stimulator of interferon genes (STING). Activated STING translocates from the endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi, where it drives TBK1-dependent IFN and cytokine production. Previous reports show that cGAS activity is enhanced by Ras-GAP SH3 domain binding protein 1 (G3BP1), a key nucleator of stress granules (SGs), independent of its role in SG assembly. Here, we identify a non-canonical role of G3BP1 as a regulator of DNA sensing responses at multiple levels, including STING intracellular trafficking, in addition to potentiating cGAS activity. Loss of G3BP1 impaired STING-dependent IFN and cytokine responses to HSV-1 infection and viral DNA. G3BP1-deficient cells showed reduced cGAMP-induced STING translocation to the Golgi, induction of type I IFN and proinflammatory cytokines, and activation of the ER stress kinase PERK and stress granule formation. Together, these findings demonstrate G3BP1-STING as a node linking DNA sensing, innate immunity, and stress signaling with broad implications for antiviral defense and diseases characterized by aberrant DNA sensing and stress responses, including neurodegeneration, fibrosis, and autoimmunity.
Following ischemic stroke, the progressive formation and mechanical stiffening of the glial scar pose a critical microenvironmental barrier to neural regeneration. However, how this dynamic stiffness influences the fate of neural stem cells (NSCs) remains unclear. To address this, this study aimed to elucidate the mechanotransduction mechanism regulating NSCs differentiation post-stroke. Specifically, thirty male C57BL/6J mice underwent distal middle cerebral artery occlusion to establish a focal cerebral ischemia model. We combined in vivo transplantation of NSCs into distal middle cerebral artery occlusion mouse stroke models and in vitro culture on polyacrylamide hydrogels mimicking scar stiffness. Furthermore, transcriptomic analysis and functional validation through Piezo1 knockdown were employed. Mechanistic insights were explored by examining calcium influx and the Notch signaling pathway. We found that increased substrate stiffness potently inhibited neuronal differentiation and neurite outgrowth. Importantly, Piezo1 was identified as a key mechanosensitive regulator and its knockdown severely diminished both the neuronal differentiated direction and the NSCs proliferation. Mechanistically, Piezo1-mediated calcium influx modulated Notch signaling, forming a stiffness-sensing axis that coordinates the differentiation gene network. Overall, these findings identify aberrant mechanosensing as an important contributing factor of neurogenesis and highlight Piezo1 as a potential therapeutic target for enhancing neural repair.
During sepsis, multiple pathogenic factors - including hyperinflammatory responses, gut dysbiosis, and immune cell dysfunction - collectively compromise intestinal barrier integrity, thereby exacerbating disease progression. In this research, we have elucidated the in vivo therapeutic efficacy of Jiawei Taohe Chengqi Decoction (JTCD) in ameliorating sepsis-induced intestinal injury and elucidated its underlying molecular mechanisms.The septic mice model was established to assess the pharmacological impact of JTCD and Taohe Chengqi Decoction (THCQD) in vivo. Network pharmacology analysis of the active components of JTCD was performed. Intestinal permeability was assessed by measuring FITC-Dextran flux, while tissue morphology and pathology were examined by H&E staining. The level of IL-6, IL-1β, TNF-α DAO, D-LA, I-FABP, IL-10 and IL-4 were evaluated by the corresponding ELISA kit. The expression of ZO-1, Claudin-1, Notch1, Jagged1 and HES1 was assessed by western blot. Immunofluorescence was applied to assess the expression of F4/80, iNOS, CD206 and Notch1. The cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) was employed to evaluate the viability. Flow cytometry was applied to quantify the populations of F4/80 + CD86+ and F4/80 + CD163+. TEER assay was performed to assess the integrity of intestinal barrier.JTCD ameliorated intestinal barrier dysfunction in septic mice by reducing permeability, mitigating histopathological damage, lowering serum injury biomarkers, and upregulating tight junction proteins. JTCD exerted therapeutic effects by modulating the Notch signaling pathway and intestinal macrophage polarization. JTCD attenuated Caco-2 cell barrier injury by regulating macrophage polarization through the Notch signaling pathway.These results demonstrate that JTCD improves intestinal barrier damage in sepsis by modulating Notch-mediated macrophage polarization.Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Ras GTPase-activating protein SH3 domain-binding protein 1 (G3BP1) has been shown to bind cytosolic nucleic acid sensors including retinoic acid-inducible gene I (RIG-I) and cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) in innate immunity. As a scaffolding protein enhancing protein-protein and protein-RNA interactions during cellular stress response, we examine whether G3BP1 could bind additional innate immune signaling molecules and investigate the relevance and mechanisms underlying these interactions.To define G3BP1 function in dsRNA-triggered anti-viral signaling and identify additional interacting molecules, we generated siRNA- and CRISPER-Cas9-mediated G3BP1-knockdown and knockout HEK293T cells, conducted biochemical experiments in human and murine cells including co-immunoprecipitation, domain mutagenesis and mapping, as well as LC-MS/MS analyses to study protein post-translational modifications. We also performed p(I:C)-stimulation assays to measure interferon production, pharmacological inhibition studies to determine enzyme-substrate specificity, as well as confocal immunofluorescence microscopy to examine protein subcellular localization.Our study reveals a role for G3BP1 in binding TBK1 and IRF3, two important molecules in innate immune signaling leading to the production of IFN-β. Deficiency in G3BP1 reduces TBK1-IRF3 complex formation and affects IRF3 phosphorylation, nuclear translocation, and the production of IFN-β during p(I:C) stimulation while the phosphorylation of TBK1 was largely preserved. We further show that G3BP1 constitutively associates with IRF3 and recruits TBK1 upon p(I:C) stimulation. These findings suggest that G3BP1 acts as a scaffold to recruit activated TBK1 and facilitates its activation of IRF3. Domain mapping experiments indicated that the C-terminal RGG region of G3BP1 is critical for binding IRF3 and TBK1. LC-MS/MS analysis revealed human G3BP1 to be arginine-methylated at R435 and R460 residues upon p(I:C)-stimulation, and mutagenesis experiments indicated that R460 is required for its efficient binding of TBK1. We further show that the arginine methyltransferase PRMT5 associates with and promotes the symmetric arginine-dimethylation of G3BP1 and pharmacological inhibition of PRMT5 impaired G3BP1-TBK1 interaction.Together, our data indicate that G3BP1 could bind PRMT5, TBK1 and IRF3 and reveal G3BP1 as a signaling hub that constitutively binds IRF3 and is arginine-methylated by PRMT5 to recruit TBK1 for IRF3 phosphorylation and activation and the induction of interferon production during host antiviral response.Copyright © 2026 Song, Kim, Yam, Teo, Lim, Bi, Lim and Lam.
Skipped: PubMed ID 42488503 is a review article
Multiple myeloma (MM) and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) are B-cell malignancies that rarely coexist in a single patient, presenting significant diagnostic and therapeutic challenges. While MM primarily involves clonal plasma cells, DLBCL is an aggressive lymphoid neoplasm. Investigating shared genetic mutations and understanding their clinical relevance in both cancers could provide novel insights into their pathogenesis and underlying molecular mechanisms, thereby informing future translational research.A case report was conducted on a 52-year-old male who presented with abdominal pain and anemia. Imaging revealed lymphadenopathy, and biopsy confirmed high-grade DLBCL with concurrent bone marrow involvement suggestive of MM. Laboratory tests identified monoclonal IgM gammopathy, and the patient was treated with R-CHOP (Rituximab, Cyclophosphamide, Doxorubicin, Vincristine, and Prednisone) chemotherapy for DLBCL followed by autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) for MM relapse. A systematic review of the literature was performed using PubMed, Scopus, and Web of Science databases to identify cases of patients diagnosed with both MM and DLBCL. Data on patient demographics, clinical features, treatment regimens, and outcomes were extracted. Additionally, bioinformatics analysis was conducted using publicly available genomic data from cBioPortal and IntOGen to identify driver gene mutations in MM and DLBCL. Functional and pathway enrichment analysis was performed with KEGG and Gene Ontology (GO) databases.The case report highlighted a complex clinical course where the patient initially responded well to R-CHOP chemotherapy for DLBCL, achieving remission, but later relapsed with MM, treated with ASCT and lenalidomide. The systematic review revealed 14 eligible studies in which MM and DLBCL often occur in older patients, either simultaneously or sequentially, with variable treatment responses, including complete remission, partial remission, or relapse. The bioinformatics analysis identified several shared function and cancer-related pathways between two cancers including interleukin and cytokine-mediated signaling pathways, regulation of cell cycle, neurotrophin signaling pathway, FOXO signaling pathway, Epstein Barr virus infection, and viral carcinogenesis.This study provides valuable insights into the dual occurrence of MM and DLBCL, emphasizing the importance of tailored treatment approaches. The driver mutations identified highlight overlapping oncogenic pathways rather than implying a shared clonal origin, and may inform future studies exploring their biological and clinical implications. Further research into these shared molecular mechanisms could lead to more effective treatments for patients with coexisting MM and DLBCL.© 2026. The Author(s).
Post-COVID-19 condition (PCC) develops after the acute phase of the SARS-CoV-2 infection with cognitive symptoms in 7.2-59.2% of cases, affecting primarily executive function, memory and attention-processing speed. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are vital neurophysiological regulators and potential non-invasive biomarkers. This study analyzes a complete neuropsychological battery in 48 PCC patients, grouped into cognitively impaired (PCC-CI) and cognitively healthy (PCC-CH), and 16 controls; and quantifies plasma miRNAs using a TaqMan OpenArray or qRT-PCR. Results showed 13 miRNAs differentially expressed in PCC-CI as compared to PCC-CH patients. Functional analysis using predictive tools revealed associations with the Forkhead box O (FoxO) signaling pathway, Hippo signaling pathway or neurotrophin signaling pathway, among others, all involved in cognitive decline over time. Moreover, miR-369-3p, miR-448, miR-450a-5p and miR-483-3p were validated to be differentially expressed in additional samples of PCC and shown direct correlations with cognitive variables related to memory, processing speed and executive functions. Finally, a miR-448 and miR-450a signature showed good predictive values as biomarkers of cognitive impairment in PCC patients. In conclusion, a miR-448 and miR-450a signature showed potential as biomarkers to distinguish cognitively impaired patients in the post-COVID condition, indicating their potential to be applied in medical practice in the future.© 2026. The Author(s).
The objective of this study is to employ Mendelian randomization (MR) to screen for gut microbiota (GM) exhibiting causal genetic effects on primary liver cancer (PLC) development and to predict promising traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) candidates capable of intervening in PLC by modulating the GM.Summary statistics from genome-wide association studies (GWASs) examining the relationship between GM and PLC were retrieved from the IEU OpenGWAS database. MR analysis was conducted using the two-sample MR package in R, employing the inverse variance weighted (IVW) method as the primary approach for assessing genetic causal effects. Functional enrichment analysis was performed on genes proximal to the instrumental variables (IVs) to investigate the signaling pathways through which the implicated microbiota may contribute to PLC pathogenesis. The CTD and Coremine Medical databases were combined to predict TCM compounds potentially regulating the genes proximal to the IVs.The MR analysis identified nine taxonomic groups of GM exhibiting genetically predicted causal effects on PLC development. Among these, the Family XI (OR = 0.680, 95% CI: 0.469-0.985, p = 0.041), the genus Anaerotruncus (OR = 0.446, 95% CI: 0.228-0.873, p = 0.018), the genus Coprococcus 2 (OR = 0.440, 95% CI: 0.208-0.929, p = 0.031), the genus Escherichia Shigella (OR = 0.430, 95% CI: 0.216-0.857, p = 0.016), and the order Lactobacillales (OR = 0.517, 95% CI: 0.280-0.955, p = 0.035) were associated with a reduced risk of PLC. Conversely, the genus Barnesiella (OR = 2.594, 95% CI: 1.388-4.849, p = 0.003), the genus Catenibacterium (OR = 1.749, 95% CI: 1.003-3.048, p = 0.049), the genus Ruminococcus 2 (OR = 1.808, 95% CI: 1.066-3.068, p = 0.028), and Mollicutes RF9 (OR = 1.707, 95% CI: 1.010-2.884, p = 0.046) were associated with an elevated risk of PLC. The most frequently represented Chinese medicinal herbs predominantly include Camellia sinensis root, Curcuma longa L., Salvia miltiorrhiza, Triticum aestivum L., Panax ginseng C. A. Meyer, Panax notoginseng F.H. Chen, Radix Curcumae, Aucklandia lappa, Scutellaria baicalensis, and Zingiber officinale Rose., among others. GO enrichment analysis revealed that these genes were significantly enriched in biological processes including positive regulation of the ERK1/ERK2 signaling pathway, posttranslational protein modification (such as deglutamylation), synaptic vesicle exocytosis, and urea transport. KEGG pathway enrichment analysis demonstrated predominant enrichment of these genes in the neurotrophin signaling pathway and the cAMP signaling pathway.This study provides novel insights for developing GM-based TCM strategies for PLC prevention and treatment.Copyright © 2026 Qingliang Chen et al. International Journal of Genomics published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Bacopa monnieri (L.) Wettst. (Family: Scrophulariaceae) is a well-known edible plant used in ethnic and Ayurveda medicine for centuries to improve memory deficit, enhance cognitive function, and treat nervous system disorders. Despite accumulating in vivo evidence for its cognitive benefits, the detailed mechanisms by which its bioactive compounds act on primary neurons remain elusive. In the present study, we dissect the mechanism by which Bacopa monnieri promotes neuronal development by treating primary hippocampal neuronal cultures with its ethanolic extract (BMEE) and integrating insights from in silico network pharmacology. We identified that BMEE at different concentrations promotes neuritogenesis and has a remarkable impact on early neuronal maturation, and axonal and dendritic outgrowth. Also, BMEE regulated synaptic plasticity by increasing the expression of NMDA receptors. Metabolites of BMEE were identified by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) analysis, from which a network pharmacology model was constructed, in which BMEE metabolites were projected to regulate the neurotrophin signaling pathway. Indeed, the BMEE-mediated neuritogenic effect was abolished by the presence of a TrkA receptor-specific inhibitor, suggesting that the neuritogenic effect of BMEE is TrkA-dependent. Also, molecular docking following MD simulations supported the idea that BMEE metabolites, particularly δ-Tocopherol and O-methyl-, bind with high affinity to the TrkA receptor (NGF-binding domain). This study collectively illuminates the TrkA-mediated pathway through which Bacopa monnieri promotes neuronal development and suggests that bioactive metabolites from BMEE might hold potential as a source for designing therapeutic agents for various cognitive disorders.
Biological age acceleration and disruptions in neurotrophin pathway signaling may significantly contribute to cancer-related cognitive impairment (CRCI) etiology. In this study, we evaluated the relationship of epigenetic age acceleration with cognitive function measures and circulating BDNF levels. Furthermore, we evaluated DNA methylation (DNAm) patterns to explore neurotrophin pathway associations with CRCI symptoms.In a longitudinal study, 51 newly diagnosed Adolescent and Young adult cancer patients and 8 age-matched healthy controls provided blood samples for DNAm and BDNF measurements with concurrent clinical assessments (#NCT03476070). We evaluated the relationship of epigenetic ageing with cancer status, circulating BDNF levels, and measured cognitive function. Next, we identified significant differentially methylated positions (DMPs), regions (DMRs), and significantly enriched pathways associated with BDNF and cognitive function outcomes.PhenoAge and GrimAge demonstrated significant age acceleration relative to non-cancer controls and worsening cognitive function symptoms, with accelerated GrimAge associated with decreasing BDNF levels. DMPs associated with 5 different cognitive function outcomes (FactCog Score, Response, Memory, Executive Function, Multi-Tasking) were mapped to genes within KEGG pathway HSA:04722 (Neurotrophin Signaling Pathway). Key enriched pathways relative to both subjective cognitive function and multiple objective cognitive measurement domains were also enriched with respect to BDNF levels, including Synapse (GO:0045202), Glutamatergic Synapse (GO:0098978), and Neuron Projection (GO:0043005).Cancer and cancer treatment lead to significant epigenetic age acceleration, which can influence neuronal health and CRCI symptom onset. Furthermore, DNAm patterns corroborate BDNF as a potential biomarker for CRCI and suggest neurotrophin pathways play a meaningful role in CRCI etiology.Copyright © 2025 Sayer, Ng, Trudeau, Chan, Acharya, Kober and Chan.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is marked by modifiable and non-modifiable risk factors. Despite existing treatments, effective therapies to halt or reverse AD progression remain limited, highlighting the urgent need for new multitarget strategies. Phytotherapy as an anti-AD approach has emerged as an increasingly promising strategy in combating neurodegeneration, triggered by suppression of neuronal oxidation and inflammation. Salicin is a natural substance found in willow bark with anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects. The present study investigates the protective effects of Salicin on neurodegeneration triggered by Scopolamine (Scop). Network pharmacology identified target pathways and genes involved in AD pathogenesis and suggested Salicin as a potential therapeutic agent. Molecular docking elucidated interactions within these target pathways. Scop (1 mg/kg, i.p.) induced memory dysfunction, and Salicin was administered at 12.5, 25, and 50 mg/kg (i.p.). Behavioral parameters were assessed for recognition and spatial memory using Novel Object Recognition (NOR) and Radial Arm Maze (RAM), respectively. AChE, BDNF, and PSEN-1 levels were studied as per in silico predictions, and microscopic changes in hippocampus and cortex were observed via histopathology. Top three pathways of Salicin were identified. The results of in silico and in vivo analyses demonstrate that the protective effects of Salicin are mediated through the Neurotrophin Signaling Pathway (NTSP), Cholinergic Synapse Pathway (CSP), and Glycerolipid Metabolism Pathway (GLM), which are critically implicated in AD progression. Relevant behavioral and histopathological improvements were observed. This study provides preliminary evidence supporting the potential of Salicin as a therapeutic candidate for AD, offering valuable direction for future research.Copyright © 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Most arboviruses rely on insect vectors for transmission, with salivary glands serving as a critical gateway for viral spread to new hosts. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are key regulators of gene expression, yet their roles in salivary glands during virus infection remain poorly understood. Using the small brown planthopper (SBPH)-rice stripe virus (RSV) system, we sequenced small RNAs from salivary glands of nonviruliferous and viruliferous insects and identified 5,909 known miRNAs from 201 families. Of these, 1,143 miRNAs were differentially expressed upon RSV infection, including 1,090 upregulated from 36 families and 53 downregulated from 11 families. These differentially expressed miRNAs were predicted to target 2,876 genes. Gene Ontology analysis showed that targets of upregulated miRNA were enriched in "protein binding," while those of downregulated miRNAs were associated with "cytoskeleton" and "regulation of dephosphorylation." The neurotrophin signaling pathway was the top-enriched KEGG pathway for the upregulated miRNA targets. Two miRNAs, miR-276-5p and miR-13a-3p, were specifically modulated by RSV in the salivary glands but not in the guts. miR-276-5p was found to enhance RSV secretion from the salivary glands into rice without altering viral load in insects, whereas miR-13a-3p could play a negative role in viral accumulation in insects. Taken together, our findings highlight tissue-specific miRNA responses in vector-virus interactions and uncover distinct roles of salivary gland miRNAs in regulating viral transmission.Most plant viruses depend on insect vectors for transmission. The salivary glands of insect vectors are the last barrier for these viruses to overcome before being transmitted to plant hosts. In this work, we dissected the microRNA (miRNA) response to plant virus infection in insect salivary glands using the model of the small brown planthopper and rice stripe virus (RSV). The abundance of hundreds of miRNAs changes in the salivary glands after RSV infection. Two specific miRNAs play distinct roles. One enhances the release of RSV from salivary glands into rice plants, and the other regulates viral accumulation within the insects. These findings deepen our understanding of small RNA reactions and potential functions of miRNAs to viral infection in the salivary glands of insect vectors.
Several studies have reported an association between phthalate exposure and an increased risk of atopic dermatitis (AD). However, the molecular mechanism underlying this phenomenon in children remains unknown.In this study, we investigated the effect of dibutyl phthalate (DBP) on AD development from a birth cohort and explored the potential mechanisms using multi-omics.Urinary concentrations of mono-n-butyl phthalate (MnBP) and mono-isobutyl phthalate (MiBP) metabolites were measured in 222 children aged 7 years from the Exposome and Child Health with Omics-Cohort for Childhood of Asthma and Allergic Diseases (ECHO-COCOA) study. Physician diagnosed AD in these participants. Luminex multiplex assay, proteome, and transcriptome were performed on blood samples. The production of interleukin (IL)-5 and IL-10 was analyzed after MnBP exposure in human keratinocytes and macrophage.Higher MnBP and MiBP levels increased the risk of AD development. These phthalates were positively correlated with eosinophils and IL-5. In total, 24 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) and IL-5 were associated with MnBP and the development of AD. DEPs were predominantly enriched in the semaphorin-plexin signaling pathway. Plexin B1 was negatively correlated with IL-10 and interferon gamma and positively correlated with egg white specific immunoglobulin E. Moreover, mediation analysis indicated that IL-5 had a significantly positive mediation effect on the association between MnBP and eosinophils. The IL-5-mediated signaling pathway was enriched in the blood transcriptome. IL-10 was decreased and IL-5 was increased in a dose-dependent manner after MnBP exposure from THP-1 and HaCaT cells.Exposure to DBP affects childhood AD via semaphorin-plexin signaling and IL-5.© 2025 European Academy of Allergy and Clinical Immunology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Intracranial aneurysm(IA) are among the most common cerebrovascular diseases, and their rupture can lead to severe consequences. Aging plays a significant role in the onset and progression of many diseases, yet it remains understudied in the context of intracranial aneurysms. The aim of this study is to investigate the role of aging-related genes in the development of intracranial aneurysms using public databases, in order to understand the underlying biological mechanisms.  METHODS: Gene expression profiles for intracranial aneurysms were downloaded from the GEO database. Human aging-related genes were obtained from the HAGR website. Differentially expressed gene analysis and WGCNA were used to identify core hub genes. GO and KEGG enrichment analyses were conducted to determine the potential biological functions and pathways that these differentially expressed aging-related genes in intracranial aneurysms might be involved in. Based on the hub genes, co-expression gene networks and Gene-TF-miRNA regulatory networks were constructed. Further exploration of drug-gene interactions was conducted to screen potential target drugs.Through the intersection of aging-related genes and differentially expressed genes in IA, 32 common differentially expressed genes were identified, with 20 genes upregulated and 12 genes downregulated. GO enrichment analysis showed that these genes were mainly involved in epithelial cell proliferation and regulation, peptide enzyme activity modulation, and metabolic Homeostasis. KEGG enrichment analysis showed that these genes were primarily involved in the adipocytokine signaling pathway, growth Hormone synthesis,secretion and action, neurotrophin signaling pathway, and longevity regulating pathway. WGCNA was used to identify genes highly correlated with the IA phenotype, and an intersection with the 32 differentially expressed aging-related genes yielded 11 candidate Hub DEARGs. The expression of the candidate Hub DEARGs was validated using an external dataset, ultimately confirming 4 hub DEARGs related to intracranial aneurysms. Among them, NGFR and ADCY5 were downregulated, while BUB1B and SERPINE1 were upregulated.  CONCLUSIONS: This study identified four aging-related genes, NGFR, ADCY5, SERPINE1, and BUB1B, that are associated with intracranial aneurysms. This provides new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying the development of intracranial aneurysms. The identified core genes provide promising leads for further experimental research to explore the pathogenesis of the disease.© 2025. The Author(s).
Skipped: PubMed ID 40899856 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 15379975 is a review article
Neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) is well known to play an important role in facilitating neuronal survival and differentiation during development. However, the mechanisms by which neurotrophin-3 promotes prolonged Akt/MAPK signaling at an early stage are not well understood. Here, we report that NT-3 works at an early stage of neuronal differentiation in mouse neural stem cells (NSCs). After treatment with NT-3 for 12h, more NSCs differentiated into neurons than did untreated cells. These findings demonstrated that stimulation with NT-3 causes NSCs to differentiate into neurons through a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt signaling pathway and the phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) pathway. In addition, treatment with NT-3 induced neurite outgrowth by specific phosphorylation of p38 MAPK, which was accompanied by neuronal differentiation. Taken together, these results suggest that NT-3, along with the Trk C receptors in NSCs, might lead to the survival and neuronal differentiation of NSCs via two distinct downstream signaling pathways at an early stage of neuronal differentiation.
Skipped: PubMed ID 9755289 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 15057936 is a review article
Skipped: PubMed ID 15205520 is a review article
Major vessels of the vertebrate circulatory system display evolutionarily conserved and reproducible anatomy, but the cues guiding this stereotypic patterning remain obscure. In the nervous system, axonal pathways are shaped by repulsive cues provided by ligands of the semaphorin family that are sensed by migrating neuronal growth cones through plexin receptors. We show that proper blood vessel pathfinding requires the endothelial receptor PlexinD1 and semaphorin signals, and we identify mutations in plexinD1 in the zebrafish vascular patterning mutant out of bounds. These results reveal the fundamental conservation of repulsive patterning mechanisms between axonal migration in the central nervous system and vascular endothelium during angiogenesis.
